This doctrine, that "ignorance of the law excuses no one," is constantly repeated in the form
that "every one is bound to know the law." The doctrine is true in civil matters, especially
in contracts, so far as this: that no man, who has the ordinary capacity to make reasonable
contracts, can escape the consequences of  his own agreement, on the ground that he did not
know the law  applicable to it. When a man makes a contract, he gives the other  party rights;
and he must of necessity judge for himself, and take  his own risk, as to what those rights
are,  otherwise the contract  would not be binding, and men could not make contracts that 
would convey rights to each other. Besides, the capacity to make  reasonable contracts, 

implies and includes a capacity to form a reasonable judgment as to the law applicable to them.
But in criminal matters, where the question is one of punishment, or not; where no second party
has acquired any right to have the crime punished, unless it were committed with criminal intent,
(but only to have it compensated for by damages in a civil suit,") and when the criminal intent
is the only moral justification for the punishment, the principle does not apply, and a man
is bound to know the law only as well as he reasonably may. The criminal law requires neither
impossibilities nor extraordinaries of any one. It requires only thoughtfulness and a good
conscience. It requires only that a man fairly and properly use the judgment he possesses,
and the means he has of learning his duty. It requires of him only the same care to know his
duty in regard to the law, that he is morally bound to use in other matters of equal importance.
And this care it does require of him. Any ignorance of the law, therefore, that is unnecessary,
or that arises from indifference or disregard of one's duty, is no excuse. An accused person,
therefore, may be rightfully held responsible for such a knowledge of the law as is common
to men in general, having no greater natural capacities than himself, and no greater opportunities
for learning the law. And he can rightfully be held to no greater knowledge of the law than
this. To hold him responsible for a greater knowledge of the law than is common to mankind,
when other things are equal, would be gross injustice and cruelty. The mass of mankind can
give but little of their attention to acquiring a knowledge of the  law. Their other duties
in life forbid it. Of course, they cannot investigate abstruse or difficult questions. All
that can rightfully be required of each of them, then, is that he exercise such a candid and
conscientious judgment as it is common formankind generally to exercise in such matters. If
he have done this, it would be monstrous to punish him criminally for his errors; errors not
of conscience, but only of judgment. It would also be contrary to the first principles of a
free government (that is, a government formed by voluntary association) to punish men in such
cases, because it would be absurd to suppose that any man would voluntarily assist to establish
or support a government that would punish himself for acts which he himself did not know to
be crimes. But a man may reasonably unite with his fellow-men to maintain a government to punish
those acts which he himself considers criminal, and may reasonably acquiesce in his own liability
to be punished for such acts. As those are the only grounds on which any one can be supposed
to render any voluntary support to a government, it follows that a government formed by voluntary
association, and of course having no powers except such as all the associates have consented
that it may have, can have no power to punish a man for acts which he did not himself know
to be criminal.

The safety of society, which is the only object of the criminal law, requires only that those
acts which are understood by mankind at large to be intrinsically criminal, should he punished
as crimes. The remaining few (if there are any) may safely be left to go unpunished. Nor does
the safety of society require that any individuals, other than those who have sufficient mental
capacity to understand that their acts are criminal, should be criminally punished. All others
may safely be left to their liability, under the civil law, to compensate for their unintentional
wrongs.

The only real object of this absurd and atrocious doctrine, that "ignorance of the law (that
is, of crime) excuses no one," and that "everyone is bound to know the criminal law," (that
is, bound to know what is a crime,) is to maintain an entirely arbitrary authority on the part
of the government, and to deny to the people all right to judge for themselves what their own
rights and liberties are. In other words, the whole object of the doctrine is to deny to the
people themselves all right to judge what statutes and other acts of the government are consistent
or inconsistent with their own rights and liberties; and thus to reduce the people to the condition
of mere slaves to a despotic power, such as the people themselves would never have voluntarily
established, and the justice of whose laws the people  themselves cannot understand.

Under the true trial by jury all tyranny of this kind would be abolished. A jury would not
only judge what acts were really criminal, but they would judge of the mental capacity of an
accused person, and of his opportunities for understand- ing the true character of his conduct.
In short, they would judge of his moral intent from all the circumstances of the case, and
acquit him, if they had any reasonable doubt that he knew that he was committing a crime. [2]

[1] This presumption, founded upon age alone, is as absurd in civil matters as in criminal.
What can be more entirely ludicrous than the idea that all men (not manifestly imbecile) become
mentally competent to make all contracts whatsoever on the day they become twenty-one years
of age?   and that, previous to that day, no man becomes competent to make any contract whatever,
except for the present supply of the most obvious wants of nature? In reason, a man's legal
competency to make binding contracts, in any and every case whatever, depends  wholly upon
his mental capacity to make reasonable contracts in  each particular case. It of course requires
more capacity to make a reasonable contract in some cases than in others. It requires, for
example, more capacity to make a reasonable contract in the purchase of a large estate, than
in the purchase of a pair of shoes. But the mental capacity to make a reasonable contract,
in any particular case, is, in reason, the only legal criterion of the legal competency to
make a binding contract in that case. The age, whether more or less than twenty-one years,
is of no legal consequence whatever, except that it is entitled to some consideration as evidence
of capacity.

It may be mentioned, in this connection, that the rules that prevail, that every man is entitled
to freedom from parental authority at twenty-one years of age, and no one before that age,
are of the same class of absurdities with those that have been mentioned. The only ground on
which a parent is ever entitled to exercise authority over his child, is that the child is
incapable of taking reasonable care of himself. The child would be entitled to his freedom
from his birth, if he were at that time capable of taking reasonable care of himself. Some
become capable of taking care of themselves at an earlier age than others. And whenever any
one becomes capable of taking reasonable care of himself, and not until then, he is entitled
to his freedom, be his age more or less.

These principles would prevail under the true trial by jury, the jury being the judges of the
capacity of every individual whose capacity should be called in question.

[2] In contrast to the doctrines of the text, it may be proper to present more distinctly the
doctrines that are maintained by judges, and that prevail in courts of justice. Of course,
no judge, either of the present day, or perhaps within the last five hundred years, has admitted
the right of a jury to judge of the justice of a law, or to hold any law invalid for its injustice.
Every judge asserts the power of the government to punish for acts that are intrinsically innocent,
and which therefore involve or evince no criminal intent.  To accommodate the administration
of law to this principle, all judges, so far as I am aware, hold it to be unnecessary that
an indictment should charge, or that a jury should find, that an act was done with a criminal
intent, except in those cases where the act is malum in se,  criminal in itself. In all other
cases, so far as I am aware, they hold it sufficient that the indictment charge, and consequently
that the jury find, simply that the act was done " contrary to the form of the statute in such
case made and provided;" in other words, contrary to the orders of the government.

All these doctrines prevail universally among judges, and are, I think, uniformly practised
upon in courts of justice; and they plainly involve the most absolute despotism on the part
of the government.

But there is still another doctrine that extensively, and perhaps most generally, prevails
in practice, although judges are not agreed in regard to its soundness. It is this: that it
is not even necessary that the jury should see or know, for themselves, what the law is that
is charged to have been violated; nor to see or know, for themselves, that the act charged
was in violation of any law whatever;   but that it is sufficient that they be simply told
by the judge that any act whatever, charged in an indictment, is in violation of law, and that
they are then bound blindly to receive the declaration as true, and convict a man accordingly,
if they find that he has done the act charged.

This doctrine is adopted by many among the most eminent judges, and the reasons for it are
thus given by Lord Mansfield:

"They (the jury) do not know, and are not presumed to know, the law. They are not sworn to
decide the law;" [3] they are not required to do it... The jury ought not to assume the jurisdiction
of law. They do not know, and are not presumed to know, anything of the matter. They do not
understand the language in which it is conceived, or the meaning of the terms. They have no
rule to go by but their passions and wishes."   8 Term Rep., 428, note.

What is this but saying that the people, who are supposed to be represented in juries, and
who institute and support the government, (of course for the protection of their own rights
and liberties, as they understand them, for plainly no other motive can be attributed to them,)
are really the slaves of a despotic power, whose arbitrary commands even they are not supposed
competent to understand, but for the transgression of which they are nevertheless to be punished
as criminals 

This is plainly the sum of the doctrine, because the jury are the peers (equals) of the accused,
and are therefore supposed to know the law as well as he does, and as well as it is known by
the people at large. If they (the jury) are not presumed to know the law, neither the accused
nor the people at large can be presumed to know it. Hence, it follows that one principle of
the truetrial by jury is, that no accused person shall be held responsible for any  other or
greater knowledge of the law than is common to his  political equals, who will generally be
men of nearly similar  condition in life. But the doctrine of Mansfield is, that the body 
of the people, from whom jurors are taken, are responsible to a  law, which it is agreed they
cannot understand. What is this but  despotism?   and not merely despotism, but insult and
oppression  of the intensest kind?

[3] This declaration of Mansfield, that juries in England "are not sworn to decide the law"
in criminal cases, is a plain falsehood. They are sworn to try the whole case at issue between
the king and the prisoner, and that includes the law as well as the fact. See Jurors Oath, page 85.

This doctrine of Mansfield is the doctrine of all who deny the right of juries to judge of
the law, although all may not choose to express it in so blunt and unambiguous terms. But the
doctrine evidently admits of no other interpretation or defence.

CHAPTER X. MORAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR JURORS

THE trial by jury must, if possible, be construed to be such that a man can rightfully sit
in a jury, and unite with his fellows in giving judgment. But no man can rightfully do this,
unless he hold in his own hand alone a veto upon any judgment or sentence whatever to be rendered
by the jury against a defendant, which veto he must be permitted to use according to his own
discretion and conscience, and not bound to use according to the dictation of either legislatures
or judges.

The prevalent idea, that a juror may, at the mere dictation of a legislature or a judge, and
without the concurrence of his own conscience or understanding, declare a man "guilty," and
thus in effect license the government to punish him; and that the legislature or the judge,
and not himself, has in that case all the moral responsibility for the correctness of the principles
on which the judgment was rendered, is one of the many gross impostures by which it could hardly
have been supposed that any sane man could ever have been deluded, but which governments have
nevertheless succeeded in inducing the people at large to receive and act upon.

As a moral proposition, it is perfectly self-evident that, unless juries have all the legal
rights that have been claimed for them in the preceding chapters,   that is, the rights of
judging what the law is, whether the law be a just one, what evidence is admissible, what weight
the evidence is entitled to, whether an act were done with a criminal intent, and the right
also to limit the sentence, free of all dictation from any quarter,   they have no moral right
to sit in the trial at all, and cannot do so without making themselves accomplices in any injustice
that they may have reason to believe may result from their verdict. It is absurd to say that
they have no moral responsibility for the use that may be made of their verdict by the government,
when they have reason to suppose it will be used for purposes of injustice.

It is, for instance, manifestly absurd to say that jurors have no moral responsibility for
the enforcement of an unjust law, when they consent to render a verdict of guilty for the transgression
of it; which verdict they know, or have good reason to believe, will be used by the government
as a justification for inflicting a penalty.

It is absurd, also, to say that jurors have no moral responsibility for a punishment indicted
upon a man against law, when, at the dictation of a judge as to what the law is, they have
consented to render a verdict against their own opinions of the law.

It is absurd, too, to say that jurors have no moral responsibility for the conviction and punishment
of an innocent man, when they consent to render a verdict against him on the strength of evidence,
or laws of evidence, dictated to them by the court, if any evidence or laws of evidence have
been excluded, which they (the jurors) think ought to have been admitted in his defence.

It is absurd to say that jurors have no moral responsibility for rendering a verdict of "guilty"
against a man, for an act which he did not know to be a crime, and in the commission of which,
therefore, he could have had no criminal intent, in obedience to the instructions of courts
that "ignorance of the law (that is, of crime) excuses no one."

It is absurd, also, to say that jurors have no moral responsibility for any cruel or unreasonable
sentence that may be inflicted even upon a guilty man, when they consent to render a verdict
which they have reason to believe will be used by the government as a justification for the
infliction of such sentence.

The consequence is, that jurors must have the whole case in their hands, and judge of law,
evidence, and sentence, or they incur the moral responsibility of accomplices in any injustice
which they have reason to believe will be done by the government on the authority of their verdict.

The same principles apply to civil cases as to criminal. If a jury consent, at the dictation
of the court, as to either law or evidence, to render a verdict, on the strength of which they
have reason to believe that a man's property will be taken from him and given to another, against
their own notions of justice, they make themselves morally responsible for the wrong.

Every man, therefore, ought to refuse to sit in a jury, and to take the oath of a juror, unless
the form of the oath be such as to allow him to use his own judgment, on every part of the
case, free of all dictation whatsoever, and to hold in his own hand a veto upon any verdict
that can be rendered against a defendant, and any sentence that can be inflicted upon him,
even if he be guilty.

Of course, no man can rightfully take an oath as juror, to try a case "according to law," (if
by law be meant anything other than his own ideas of justice,) nor "according to the law and
the evidence, as they shall be given him." Nor can he rightfully take an oath even to try a
case "according to the evidence," because in all cases he may have good reason to believe that
a party has been unable to produce all the evidence legitimately entitled to be received. The
only oath which it would seem that a man can rightfully take as juror, in either a civil or
criminal case, is, that he "will try the case according to his conscience." Of course, the
form may admit of variation, but this should be the substance. Such, we have seen, were the
ancient common law oaths.

CHAPTER XI. AUTHORITY OF MAGNA CARTA

PROBABLY no political compact between king and people was ever entered into in a manner to
settle more authoritatively the fundamental law of a nation, than was Magna Carta. Probably
no people were ever more united and resolute in demanding from their king a definite and unambiguous
acknowledgment of their rights and liberties, than were the English at that time. Probably
no king was ever more completely stripped of all power to maintain his throne, and at the same
time resist the demands of his people, than was John on the 15th day of June, 1215. Probably
no king every consented, more deliberately or explicitly, to hold his throne subject to specific
and enumerated limitations upon his power, than did John when he put his seal to the Great
Charter of the Liberties of England. And if any political compact between king and people was
ever valid to settle the liberties of the people, or to limit the power of the crown, that
compact is now to be found in Magna Carta. If, therefore, the constitutional authority of Magna
Carta had rested solely upon the compact of John with his people, that authority would have
been entitled to stand forever as the supreme law of the land, unless revoked by the will of
the people themselves.

But the authority of Magna Carta does not rest alone upon the compact with John. When, in the
next year, (1216,) his son, Henry III., came to the throne, the charter was ratified by him,
and again in 1217, and again in 1225, in substantially the same form, and especially without
allowing any new powers, legislative, judicial, or executive, to the king or his judges, and
without detracting in the least from the powers of the jury. And from the latter date to this,
the charter has remained unchanged.

In the course of two hundred years the charter was confirmed by Henry and his successors more
than thirty times. And although they were guilty of numerous and almost continual breaches
of it, and were constantly seeking to evade it, yet such were the spirit, vigilance and courage
of the nation, that the kings held their thrones only on the condition of their renewed and
solemn promises of observance. And it was not until 1429, (as will be more fully shown hereafter,)
when a truce between themselves, and a formal combination against the mass of the people, had
been entered into, by the king, the nobility, and the "forty shilling freeholders," (a class
whom Mackintosh designates as "a few freeholders then accounted wealthy," [1]) by the exclusion
of all others than such freeholders from all voice in the election of knights to represent
the counties in the House of Commons, that a repetition of these confirmations of Magna Carta
ceased to be demanded. and obtained. [2]

The terms and the formalities of some of these "confirmations" make them worthy of insertion
at length.

Hume thus describes one which took place in the 38th year of Henry III. (1253):

" But as they (the barons) had experienced his (the king's) frequent breach of promise, they
required that he should ratify the Great Charter in a manner still more authentic and solemn
than any which he had hitherto employed. All the prelates and abbots were assembled. They held
burning tapers in their hands. The Great Charter was read before them. They denounced the sentence
of excommunication against every one who should thenceforth violate that fundamental law. They
threw their tapers on the ground, and exclaimed, May the soul of every one who incurs this
sentence so stink and corrupt in hell! The king bore a part in this ceremony, and subjoined,
' So help me God! I will keep all these articles inviolate, as I am a man, as I am a Christian,
as I am a knight, and as I am a king crowned and anointed.' "   Hume, ch. 12. See also Blackstone's
Introd. to the Charters. Black. Law Tracts, Oxford ed., p. 332. Makintosh's Hist. of Eng.,
ch. 3. Lardner's Cab. Cyc., vol. 45, p. 233   4.  

The following is the form of "the sentence of excommunication" referred to by Hume:

"The Sentence of Curse, Given by the Bishops, against the Breakers of the Charters.

"The year of our Lord a thousand two hundred and fifty-three, the third day of May, in the
great Hall of the King at Westminster, in the presence, and by the assent, of the Lord Henry,
by the Grace of God King of England, and the Lords Richard, Earl of Cornwall, his brother,
Roger (Bigot) Earl of Norfolk and Suffolk;, marshal of England, Humphrey, Earl of Hereford,
Henry, Earl of Oxford, John, Earl of Warwick, and other estates of the Realm of England: We,
Boniface, by the mercy of God Archbishop of Canterbury, Primate of all England, F. of London,
H. of Ely, S. of Worcester, F. of Lincoln, W. of Norwich, P. of Hereford, W. of Salisbury,
W. of Durham, R. of Exeter, M. of Carlisle, W. of Bath, E. of Rochester, T. of Saint David's,
Bishops, appareled in Pontificals, with tapers burning, against the breakers of the Church's
Liberties, and of the Liberties or free customs of the Realm of England, and especially of
those which are contained in the Charter of the Common Liberties of the Realm, and the Charter
of the Forest, have solemnly denounced the sentence of Excommunication in this form. All and
every which persons before mentioned, that wittingly shall commit anything of the premises,
let them well know that they incur the aforesaid sentence, ipso facto, (i. e.. upon the deed
being done.) And those that ignorantly do so, and be admonished, except they reform themselves
within fifteen days after the time of the admonition, and make full satisfaction for that they
have done, at the will of the ordinary, shall be from that time forth included in the same
sentence. And with the same sentence we burden all those that presume to perturb the peace
of our sovereign Lord the King, and of the Realm. To the perpetual memory of which thing, We,
the aforesaid Prelates, have put our seals to these presents."   Statutes of the Realm, vol.
1, p. 6. Ruffhead's Statutes, vol. 1, p. 20.

One of the Confirmations of the Charters, by Edward I., was by statute, in the 25th year of
his reign, (1297,) in the following terms. The statute is usually entitled. "Confirmatio Cartarum,"(Confirmation
of the Charters.)

Ch. 1.

Ch. 2.

Ch. 3. "And we will, that the same Charters shall be sent, under our seal, to Cathedral Churches
throughout our Realms there to remain, and shall be read before the people two times in the year.

Ch. 4.   St. 25 Edward I., (1297.). Statutes of the Realm, vol. l, p. 123.

It is unnecessary to repeat the terms of the various confirmations, most of which were less
formal than those that have been given, though of course equally authoritative. Most of them
are brief, and in the form of a simple statute, or promise, to the effect that "The Great Charter,
and the Charter of the Forest, shall be firmly kept and maintained in all points." They are
to be found printed with the other statutes of the realm. One of them, after having "again
granted, renewed and confirmed" the charters, requires as follows:

"That the Charters be delivered to every sheriff of England under the king's seal, to be read
four times in the year before the people in the full county," (that is, at the county court,)
"that is, to wit, the next county (court) after the feast of Saint Michael, and the next county
(court) after Christmas, and at the next county (court) after Easter, and at the next county
(court) after the feast of Saint John "  28 Edward I., ch. 1, (1300.) v 

Lingard says, "The Charter was ratified four times by Henry III., twice by Edward I., fifteen
times by Edward III., seven times by Richard II., six times by Henry IV., and once by Henry
V.;" making thirty-five times in all.   3 Lingard, 50, note, Philad. ed.

Coke says Magna Carta was confirmed thirty-two times.   Preface to 2 Inst., p. 6.

Lingard calls these "thirty-five successive ratifications" of the charter, "a sufficient proof
how much its provisions were abhorred by the sovereign, and how highly they were prized by
the nation."   3 Lingard, 50.

Mackintosh says, "For almost five centuries (that is, until 1688) it (Magna Carta) was appealed
to as the decisive authority on behalf of the people, though commonly so far only as the necessities
of each case demanded."   Mackintosh's Hist. of Eng. ch. 3. 45 Lardner's Cab. Cyc., 221.

Coke, who has labored so hard to overthrow the most vital principles of Magna Carta, and who,
therefore, ought to be considered good authority when he speaks in its favor, [3] says:

"It is called Magna Carta, not that it is great in quantity, for there be many voluminous charters
commonly passed, specially in these later times, longer than this is; nor comparatively in
respect that it is greater than Charta de Foresta, but in respect of the great importance and
weightiness of the matter, as hereafter shall appear; and likewise for the same cause Charta
de Foresta; and both of them are called Magnae Char- tae Libertatum Angliae, (The Great Charters
of the Liberties of England.)

"And it is also called Charta Libertatum regni, (Charter of the liberties of the kingdom;)
and upon great reason it is so called of the effect, quia liberos facit, (because it makes
men free.) Sometime for the same cause (it is called) communis libertas, (common liberty,)
and le chartre des franchises, (the charter of franchises.)

"It was for the most part declaratory of the principal grounds of the fundamental laws of England,
and for the residue it is additional to supply some defects of the common law.

"Also, by the said act of 25 Edward I., (called Confirmatio Chartarum,) it is adjudged in parliament
that the Great Charter and the Charter of the Forest shall be taken as the common law.

"They (Magna Carta and Carta de Foresta) were, for the most part, but declarations of the ancient
common laws of England, to the observation and keeping whereof, the king was bound and sworn.

"After the making of Magna Charta, and Charta de Foresta, divers learned men in the laws, that
I may use the words of the record, kept schools of the law in the city of London, and taught
such as resorted to them the laws of the realm, taking their foundation of Magna Charta and
Charta de Foresta. 

"And the said two charters have been confirmed, established, and commanded to be put in execution
by thirty-two several acts of parliament in all.

"This appeareth partly by that which hath been said, for that it hath so often been confirmed
by the wise providence of so many acts of parliament.

"And albeit judgments in the king's courts are of high regard in law, and judicia (judgments)
are accounted as jurisdicta, (the speech of the law itself,) yet it is provided by act of parliament,
that if any judgment be given contrary to any of the points of the Great Charter and Charta
de Foresta, by the justices, or by any other of the king's ministers, &c;., it shall be undone,
and holden for naught.

"And that both the said charters shall be sent under the great seal to all cathedral churches
throughout the realm, there to remain, and shall be read to the people twice every year.

"The highest and most binding laws are the statutes which are established by parliament; and
by authority of that highest court it is enacted (only to show their tender care of Magna Carta
and Carta de Foresta) that if any statute be made contrary to the Great Charter, or the Charter
of the Forest, that shall be holden for none; by which words all former statutes made against
either of those charters are now repealed; and the nobles and great officers were to be sworn
to the observation of Magna Charta and Charta de Foresta.

"Magna fuit quondam magnae reverentia chartae." (Great was formerly the reverence for Magna
Carta.)   Coke's Proem to 2 Inst., p. 1 to 7.

Coke also says, "All pretence of prerogative against Magna Charta is taken away."   2 Inst., 36.

He also says, "That after this parliament (52 Henry III., in 1267) neither Magna Carta nor
Carta de Foresta was ever attempted to be impugned or questioned."   2 Inst., 102. [4]

To give all the evidence of the authority of Magna Carta, it would be necessary to give the
constitutional history of England since the year 1215. This history would show that Magna Carta,
although continually violated and evaded, was still acknowledged as law by the government,
and was held up by the people as the great standard and proof of their rights and liberties.
It would show also that the judicial tribunals, whenever it suited their purposes to do so,
were in the habit of referring to Magna Carta as authority, in the same manner, and with the
same real or pretended veneration, with which American courts now refer to the constitution
of the United States, or the constitutions of the states. And, what is equally to the point,
it would show that these same tribunals, the mere tools of kings and parliaments, would resort
to the same artifices of assumption, precedent, construction, and false interpretation, to
evade the requirements of Magna Carta, and to emasculate it of all its power for the preservation
of liberty, that are resorted to by American courts to accomplish the same work on our American
constitutions.

I take it for granted, therefore, that if the authority of Magna Carta had rested simply upon
its character as a compact between the king and the people, it would have been forever binding
upon the king, (that is, upon the government, for the king was the government,) in his legislative,
judicial, and executive character; and that there was no constitutional possibility of his
escaping from its restraints, unless the people themselves should freely discharge him from them.

But the authority of Magna Carta does not rest, either wholly or mainly, upon its character
as a compact. For centuries before the charter was granted, its main principles constituted
"the Law of the Land,"   the fundamental and constitutional law of the realm, which the kings
were sworn to maintain. And the principal benefit of the charter was, that it contained a written
description and acknowledgment, by the king himself, of what the constitutional law of the
kingdom was, which his coronation oath bound him to observe. Previous to Magna Carta, this
constitutional law rested mainly in precedents, customs, and the memories of the people. And
if the king could but make one innovation upon this law, without arousing resistance, and being
compelled to retreat from his usurpation, he would cite that innovation as a precedent for
another act of the same kind; next, assert a custom; and, finally, raise a controversy as to
what the Law of the Land really was. The great object of the barons and people, in demanding
from the king a written description and acknowledgment of the Law of the Land, was to put an
end to all disputes of this kind, and to put it out of the power of the king to plead any misunderstanding
of the constitutional law of the kingdom. And the charter, no doubt, accomplished very much
in this way. After Magna Carta, it required much more audacity, cunning, or strength, on the
part of the king, than it had before, to invade the people's liberties with impunity. Still,
Magna Carta, like all other written constitutions, proved inadequate to the full accomplishment
of its purpose; for when did a parchment ever have power adequately to restrain a government,
that had either cunning to evade its requirements, or strength to overcome those who attempted
its defence? The work of usurpation, therefore, though seriously checked, still went on, to
a great extent, after Magna Carta. Innovations upon the Law of the Land are still made by the
government. One innovation was cited as a precedent; precedents made customs; and customs became
laws, so far as practice was concerned; until the government, composed of the king, the high
functionaries of the church, the nobility, a House of Commons representing the "forty shilling
freeholders," and a dependent and servile judiciary, all acting in conspiracy against the mass
of the people, became practically absolute, as it is at this day.

As proof that Magna Carta embraced little else than what was previously recognized as the common
law, or Law of the Land, I repeat some authorities that have been already cited. Law, p. 127.
See Blackstone's Law Tracts, Oxford ed., p. 289.

Coke says, " The common law is the most general and ancient law of the realm... The common
law appeareth in the statute of Magna Carta, and other ancient statutes, (which for the most
part are affirmations of the common law,) in the original writs, in judicial records, and in
our books of terms and years."   Preface to 2 Inst., p. 3 and 5.   Hume, ch. 11.

Edward the First confessed that the Great Charter was substantially identical with the common
law, as far as it went, when he commanded his justices to allow "the Great Charter as the Common
Law," " in pleas before them, and in judgment," as has been already cited in this chapter.
25 Edward I., ch. 1, (1297.)

In conclusion of this chapter, it may be safely asserted that the veneration, attachment, and
pride, which the English nation, for more than six centuries, have felt towards Magna Carta,
are in their nature among the most irrefragable of all proofs that it was the fundamental law
of the land, and constitutionally binding upon the government; for, otherwise, it would have
been, in their eyes, an unimportant and worthless thing. What those sentiments were I will
use the words of others to describe,   the words, too, of men, who, like all modern authors
who have written on the same topic, had utterly inadequate ideas of the true character of the
instrument on which they lavished their eulogiums.

Hume, speaking of the Great Charter and the Charter of the Forest, as they were confirmed by
Henry III., in 1217, says:"Thus these famous charters were brought nearly to the shape in which
they have ever since stood; and they were, during many generations, the peculiar favorites
of the English nation, and esteemed the most sacred rampart to national liberty and independence.
As they secured the rights of all orders of men, they were anxiously defended by all, and became
the basis, in a manner, of the English monarchy, and a kind of original contract, which both
limited the authority of the king and ensured the conditional allegiance of his subjects. Though
often violated, they were still claimed by the nobility and people; and, as no precedents were
supposed valid that infringed them, they rather acquired than lost authority, from the frequent
attempts made against them in several ages, by regal and arbitrary power."   Hume, ch. 12.

Mackintosh says, "It was understood by the simplest of the unlettered age for whom it was intended.
It was remembered by them... For almost five centuries it was appealed to as the decisive authority
on behalf of the people... To have produced it, to have preserved it, to have matured it, constitute
the immortal claim of England on the esteem of mankind. Her Bacons arid Shakspeares, her Miltons
and Newtons, with all the truth which they have revealed, and all the generous virtues which
they have inspired, are of inferior value when compared with the subjection of men and their
rulers to the principles of justice; if, indeed, it be not more true that these mighty spirits
could not have been formed except under equal laws, nor roused to full activity without the
influence of that spirit which the Great Charter breathed over their forefathers."   Mackintosh's
Hist. of Eng., ch. 3, [8]

Of the Great Charter, the trial by jury is the vital part, and the only part that places the
liberties of the people in their own keeping. Of this Blackstone says:

"The trial by jury, or the country, per patriam, is also that trial by the peers of every Englishman,
which, as the grand bulwark of his liberties, is secured to him by the Great Charter; nullus
liber homo capiatur, vel imprisonetur, aut exuletur, aut aliquo modo destruatur, nisi per legale
judicial parium suorum, vel per legem terrae. 

The liberties of England cannot but subsist so long as this palladium remains sacred and inviolate,
not only from all open, attacks, which none will be so hardy as to make, but also from all
secret machinations which may sap and undermine it."

[2] "Forty shilling freeholders" were those "people dwelling and resident in the same counties,
whereof every one of them shall have free land or tenement to the value of forty shillings
by the year at the least above all charges." By statute 8 Henry 6, ch. 7, (1429,) these freeholders
only were allowed to vote for members of Parliament from the counties.

[3] He probably speaks in its favor only to blind the eyes of the people to the frauds he has
attempted upon its true meaning.

[4] It will be noticed that Coke calls these confirmations of the charter "acts of parliament,"
instead of acts of the king alone. This needs explanation.

It was one of Coke's ridiculous pretences, that laws anciently enacted by the king, at the
request, or with the consent, or by the advice, of his parliament, was "an act of parliament,"
instead of the act of the king. And in the extracts cited, he carries this idea so far as to
pretend that the various confirmations of the Great Charter were "acts of parliament," instead
of the acts of the kings. He might as well have pretended that the original grant of the Charter
was an "act of parliament; "because it was not only granted at the request, and with the consent,
and by the advice, but on the compulsion even, of those who commonly constituted his parliaments.
Yet this did not make the grant of the charter "an act of parliament." It was simply an act
of the king.

The object of Coke, in this pretence, was to furnish some color for the palpable false- hood
that the legislative authority, which parliament was trying to assume in his own day, and which
it finally succeeded in obtaining, had a precedent in the ancient constitution of the kingdom.

There would be as much reason in saying that, because the ancient kings were in the habit of
passing laws in special answer to the petitions of their subjects, therefore those petitioners
were a part of the legislative power of the kingdom.

One great objection to this argument of Coke, for the legislative authority of the ancient
parliaments, is that a very large   probably much the larger   number of legislative acts were
done without the advice, consent, request, or even presence, of a parliament. Not only were
many formal statutes passed without any mention of the consent or advice of parliament, but
a simple order of the king in council, or a simple proclamation, writ, or letter under seal,
issued by his command, had the same force as what Coke calls "an act of parliament." And this
practice continued, to a considerable extent at least, down to Coke's own time.

The kings were always in the habit of consulting their parliaments, more or less, in regard
to matters of legislation,   not because their consent was constitutionally necessary, but
in order to make influence in favor of their laws, and thus induce the people to observe them,
and the juries to enforce them. The general duties of the ancient parliaments were not legislative,
but judicial, as will be shown more fully hereafter. The people were not represented in the
parliaments at the time of Magna Carta, but only the archbishops, bishops, earls, barons, and
knights; so that little or nothing would have been gained for liberty by Coke's idea that parliament
had a legislative power. He would only have substituted an aristocracy for a king. Even after
the Commons were represented in parliament, they for some centuries appeared only as petitioners,
except in the matter of taxation, when their consent was asked. And almost the only source
of their influence on legislation was this: that they would sometimes refuse their consent
to the taxation, unless the king would pass such laws as they petitioned for; or, as would
seem to have been much more frequently the case, unless he would abolish such laws and practices
as they remonstrated against. The influence, or power of parliament, and especially of the
Commons, in the general legislation of the country, was a thing of slow growth, having its
origin in a device of the king to get money contrary to law, (as will be seen in the next volume,)
and not at all a part of the constitution of the kingdom, nor having its foundation in the
consent of the people. [6]

The passage and enforcement of this statute, and the assumption of this oath by the king, were
plain violations of the English constitution, inasmuch as they abolished, so far as such an
oath could abolish, the legislative power of the king, and also "those just laws and customs
which the common people (through their juries) had chosen," and substituted the will of parliament
in their stead.

Coke was a great advocate for the legislative power of parliament, as a means of restraining
the power of the king. As he denied all power to juries to decide upon the obligation of laws,
and as he held that the legislative power was "so transcendent and absolute as (that) it cannot
be confined, either for causes or persons, within any bounds," [7] he was perhaps honest in
holding that it was safer to trust this terrific power in the hands of parliament, than in
the hands of the king. His error consisted in holding that either the king or parliament had
any such power, or that they had any power at all to pass laws that should be binding upon a jury.

These declarations of Coke, that the charter was confirmed by thirty-two "acts of parliament,"
have a mischievous bearing in another respect. They tend to weaken the authority of the charter,
by conveying the impression that the charter itself might be abolished by "act of parliament."
Coke himself admits that it could not be revoked or rescinded by the king; for he says, "All
pretence of prerogative against Magna Carta is taken away." (2 Inst., 36.)

He knew perfectly well, and the whole English nation knew, that the king could not lawfully
infringe Magna Carta. Magna Carta, therefore, made it impossible that absolute power could
ever be practically established in England, in the hands of the king. Hence, as Coke was an
advocate for absolute power,   that is, for a legislative power "so transcendent and absolute
as (that) it cannot, be confined, either for causes or persons, within any bounds,"   there
was no alternative for him but to vest this absolute power in parliament. Had he not vested
it in parliament, he would have been obliged to abjure it altogether, and to confess that the
people, through their juries, had the right to judge of the obligation of all legislation whatsoever;
in other words, that they had the right to confine the government within the limits of "those
just laws and customs which the common people (acting as jurors) had chosen." True to his instincts,
as a judge, and as a tyrant, he assumed that this absolute power was vested in the hands of
parliament.

But the truth was that, as by the English constitution parliament had no authority at all for
general legislation, it could no more confirm, than it could abolish, Magna Carta.

These thirty-two confirmations of Magna Carta, which Coke speaks of as "acts of parliament,"
were merely acts of the king. The parliaments, indeed, by refusing to grant him money, except,
on that condition, and otherwise, had contributed to oblige him to make the confirmations;
just as they had helped to oblige him by arms to grant the charter in the first place. But
the confirmations  themselves were nevertheless constitutionally, as well as formally,  the
acts of the king alone. 

[5] See page 103.

[6]St. 1.William and Mary, ch. 6, (1688)

[7]4. Inst., 36.

[8] Under the head of "John."

[9] 4 Blackstone, 849-50. 

[10] 3 Blackstone, 379.

[11] Hume, ch. 2.

[12] Page 203, 5th edition, 1721.

CHAPTER XII. Limitations Imposed Upon The Majority By The Trial By Jury

The principal objection, that will be made to the doctrine of this essay, is, that under it,
a jury would paralyze the power of the majority, and veto all legislation that was not in accordance
with the will of the whole, or nearly the whole, people.

The answer to this objection is, that the limitation, which would be thus imposed upon the
legislative power, (whether that power be vested in the majority, or minority, of the people,)
is the crowning merit of the trial by jury. It has other merits; but, though important in themselves,
they are utterly insignificant and worthless in comparison with this.

It is this power of vetoing all partial and oppressive legislation, and of restricting the
government to the maintenance of such laws as the whole, or substantially the whole, people
are agreed in, that makes the trial by jury "the palladium of liberty." Without this power
it would never have deserved that name.

The will, or the pretended will, of the majority, is the last lurking place of tyranny at the
present day. The dogma, that certain individuals and families have a divine appointment to
govern the rest of mankind, is fast giving place to the one that the larger number have a right
to govern the smaller; a dogma, which may, or may not, be less oppressive in its practical
operation, but which certainly is no less false or tyrannical in principle, than the one it
is so rapidly supplanting. Obviously there is nothing in the nature of majorities, that insures
justice at their hands. They have the same passions as minorities, and they have no qualities
whatever that should be expected to prevent them from practising the same tyranny as minorities,
if they think it will be for their interest to do so.

There is no particle of truth in the notion that the majority have a right to rule, or to exercise
arbitrary power over, the minority, simply because the former are more numerous than the latter.
Two men have no more natural right to rule one, than one has to rule two. Any single man, or
any body of men, many or few, have a natural right to maintain justice for themselves, and
for any others who may need their assistance against the injustice of any and all other men,
without regard to their numbers; and majorities have no right to do any more than this. The
relative numbers of the opposing parties have nothing to do with the question of right. And
no more tyrannical principle was ever avowed, than that the will of the majority ought to have
the force of law, without regard to its justice; or, what is the same thing, that the will
of the majority ought always to be presumed to be in accordance with justice. Such a doctrine
is only another form of the doctrine that might makes right.

When two men meet one upon the highway, or in the wilderness, have they a right to dispose
of his life, liberty, or property at their pleasure, simply because they are the more numerous
party? Or is he bound to submit to lose his life, liberty, or property, if they demand it,
merely because he is the less numerous party? Or, because they are more numerous than he, is
he bound to presume that they are governed only by superior wisdom, and the principles of justice,
and by no selfish passion that can lead them to do him a wrong? Yet this is the principle,
which it is claimed should govern men in all their civil relations to each other. Mankind fall
in company with each other on the highway or in the wilderness of life, and it is claimed that
the more numerous party, simply by virtue of their superior numbers, have the right arbitrarily
to dispose of the life, liberty, and property of the minority; and that the minority are bound,
by reason of their inferior numbers, to practise abject submission, and consent to hold their
natural rights,  any, all, or none, as the case may be,  at the mere will and pleasure of the
majority; as if all a man's natural rights expired, or were suspended by the operation of a
paramount law, the moment he came into the presence of superior numbers.

If such be the true nature of the relations men hold to each other in this world, it puts an
end to all such things as crimes, unless they be perpetrated upon those who are equal or superior,
in number, to the actors. All acts committed against persons inferior in number to the aggressors,
become but the exercise at rightful authority. And consistency with their own principles requires
that all governments, founded on the will of the majority, should recognize this plea as a
sufficient justification for all crimes whatsoever.

If it be said that the majority should be allowed to rule, not because they are stronger than
the minority, but because their superior numbers furnish a probability that they are in the
right; one answer is, that the lives, liberties, and properties of men are too valuable to
them, and the natural presumptions are too strong in their favor, to justify the destruction
of them by their fellow-men on a mere balancing of probabilities, or on any ground whatever
short of certainty beyond a reasonable doubt. This last is the moral rule universally recognized
to be binding upon single individuals. And in the forum of conscience the same rule is equally
binding upon governments, for governments are mere associations of individuals. This is the
rule on which the trial by jury is based. And it is plainly the only rule that ought to induce
a man to submit his rights to the adjudication of his fellow-men, or dissuade him from a forcible
defence of them.

Another answer is, that if two opposing parties could be supposed to have no personal interests
or passions involved, to warp their judgments, or corrupt their motives, the fact that one
of the parties was more numerous than the other, (a fact that leaves the comparative intellectual
competency of the two parties entirely out of consideration,) might, perhaps, furnish a slight,
but at best only a very slight, probability that such party was on the side of justice. But
when it is considered that the parties are liable to differ in their intellectual capacities,
and that one, or the other, or both, are undoubtedly under the influence of such passions as
rivalry, hatred, avarice, and ambition.  passions that are nearly certain to pervert their
judgments, and very likely to corrupt their motives,  all probabilities founded upon a mere
numerical majority, in one party, or the other, vanish at once; and the decision of the majority
becomes, to all practical purposes, a mere decision of chance. And to dispose of men's properties,
liberties, and lives, by the mere process of enumerating such parties, is not only as palpable
gambling as was ever practised, but it is also the most atrocious that was ever practised,
except in matters of government. And where government is instituted on this principle, (as
in the United States, for example,) the nation is at once converted into one great gambling
establishment; where all the rights of men are the stakes; a few bold bad men throw the dice
(dice loaded with all the hopes, fears, interests, and passions which rage in the breasts of
ambitious and desperate men,)   and all the people, from the interests they have depending,
become enlisted, excited, agitated, and generally corrupted, by the hazards of the game.

The trial by jury disavows the majority principle altogether; and proceeds upon the ground
that every man should be presumed to be entitled to life, liberty, and such property as he
has in his possession; and that the government should lay its hand upon none of them, (except
for the purpose of bringing them before a tribunal for adjudication,) unless it be first ascertained.,
beyond a reasonable doubt, in every individual case, that justice requires it.

To ascertain whether there be such reasonable doubt, it takes twelve men by lot from the whole
body of mature men. If any of these twelve are proved to be under the influence of any special
interest or passion, that may either pervert their judgments, or corrupt their motives, they
are set aside as unsuitable for the performance of a duty requiring such absolute impartiality
and integrity; and others substituted in their stead. When the utmost practicable impartiality
is attained on the part of the whole twelve, they are sworn to the observance of justice; and
their unanimous concurrence is then held to be necessary to remove that reasonable doubt, which,
unremoved, would forbid the government to lay its hand on its victim.

Such is the caution which the trial by jury both practises and inculcates, against the violation
of justice, on the part of the government, towards the humblest individual, in the smallest
matter affecting his civil rights, his property, liberty, or life. And such is the contrast,
which the trial by jury presents, to that gambler's and robber's rule, that the majority have
a right, by virtue of their superior numbers, and without regard to justice, to dispose at
pleasure of the property and persons of all bodies of men less numerous than themselves.

The difference, in short, between the two systems, is this. The trial by jury protects person
and property, inviolate to their possessors, from the hand of the law, unless justice, beyond
a reasonable doubt, require them to be taken. The majority principle takes person and property
from their possessors, at the mere arbitrary will of a majority, who are liable and likely
to be influenced, in taking them, by motives of oppression, avarice, and ambition.

If the relative numbers of opposing parties afforded sufficient evidence of the comparative
justice of their claims the government should carry the principle into its courts of justice;
and instead of referring controversies to impartial and disinterested men,  to judges and jurors,
sworn to do justice, and bound patiently to hear and weigh all the evidence and arguments that
can be offered on either side,  it should simply count the plaintiff's and defendants in each
case, (where there were more than one of either,) and then give the case to the majority; after
ample opportunity had been given to the plaintiffs and defendants to reason with, flatter,
cheat, threaten, and bribe each other, by way of inducing them to change sides. Such a. process
would be just as rational in courts of justice, as in halls of legislation; for it is of no
importance to a man, who has his rights taken from him, whether it be done by a legislative
enactment, or a judicial decision.

In legislation, the people are all arranged as plaintiff's and defendants in their own causes;
(those who are in favor of a particular law, standing as plaintiff's, and those who are opposed
to the same law, standing as defendants); and to allow these causes to be decided by majorities,
is plainly as absurd as it would be to allow judicial decisions to be determined by the relative
number of plaintiffs and defendants.

If this mode of decision were introduced into courts of justice, we should see a parallel,
and only a parallel, to that system of legislation which we witness daily. We should see large
bodies of men conspiring to bring perfectly groundless suits, against other bodies of men,
for large sums of money, and to carry them by sheer force of numbers; just as we now continually
see large bodies of men conspiring to carry, by mere force of numbers, some scheme of legislation
that will, directly or indirectly, take money out of other men's pockets, and put it into their
own. And we should also see distinct bodies of men, parties in separate suits, combining and
agreeing all to appear and be counted as plaintiffs or defendants in each other's suits, for
the purpose of ekeing out the necessary majority; just as we now see distinct bodies of men,
interested in separate schemes of ambition or plunder, conspiring to carry through a batch
of legislative enactments, that shall accomplish their several purposes.

This system of combination and conspiracy would go on, until at length whole states and a whole
nation would become divided into two great litigating parties, each party composed of several
smaller bodies, having their separate suits, but all confederating  for the purpose of making
up the necessary majority in each case.  The individuals composing each of these two great
parties, would  at length become so accustomed to acting together, and so well  acquainted
with each others' schemes, and so mutually dependent upon each others' fidelity for success,
that they would become organized as permanent associations; bound together by that kind of
honor that prevails among thieves; and pledged by all their interests, sympathies, and animosities,
to mutual fidelity, and to unceasing hostility to their opponents; and exerting all their arts
and all their resources of threats, injuries, promises, and bribes, to drive or seduce from
the other party enough to enable their own to retain or acquire such a majority as would be
necessary to gain their own suits, and defeat the suits of their opponents. All the wealth
and talent of the country would become enlisted in the service of these rival associations;
and both would at length become so compact, so well organized, so powerful, and yet always
so much in need of recruits, that a private person would be nearly or quite unable to obtain
justice in the most paltry suit with his neighbor, except on the condition of joining one of
these great litigating associations, who would agree to carry through his cause, on condition
of his assisting them to carry through all the others, good and bad, which they had already
undertaken. If he refused this, they would threaten to make a similar offer to his antagonist,
and suffer their whole numbers to be counted against him.

Now this picture is no caricature, but a true and honest likeness. And such a system of administering
justice, would be no more false, absurd, or atrocious, than that system of working by majorities,
which seeks to accomplish, by legislation, the same ends which, in the case supposed, would
be accomplished by judicial decisions.

Again, the doctrine that the minority ought to submit to the will of the majority, proceeds,
not upon the principle that government is formed by voluntary association, and for an agreed
purpose, on the part of all who contribute to its support, but upon the presumption that all
government must be practically a state of war and plunder between opposing parties; and that
in order to save blood, and prevent mutual extermination, the parties come to an agreement
that they will count their respective numbers periodically, and the one party shall then be
permitted quietly to rule and plunder, (restrained only by their own discretion,) and the other
submit quietly to be ruled and plundered, until the time of the next enumeration.

Such an agreement may possibly be wiser than unceasing and deadly conflict; it nevertheless
partakes too much of the ludicrous  to deserve to be seriously considered as an expedient for
the maintenance of civil society. It would certainly seem that mankind might agree upon a cessation
of hostilities, upon more rational and equitable terms than that of unconditional submission
on the part of the less numerous body. Unconditional submission is usually the last act of
one who confesses himself subdued and enslaved. How any one ever came to imagine that condition
to be one of freedom, has never been explained. And as for the system being adapted to the
maintenance of justice among men, it is a mystery that any human mind could ever have been
visited with an insanity wild enough to originate the idea.

If it be said that other corporations, than governments, surrender their affairs into the hands
of the majority, the answer is, that they allow majorities to determine only trifling matters,
that are in their nature mere questions of discretion, and where there is no natural presumption
of justice or right on one side rather than the other. They never surrender to the majority
the power to dispose of; or, what is practically the same thing, to determine, the rights of
any individual member. The rights of every member are determined by the written compact, to
which all the members have voluntarily agreed.

For example. A banking corporation allows a majority to determine such questions of discretion
as whether the note of  A or of B shall be discounted; whether notes shall be discounted  on
one, two, or six days in the week; how many hours in a day  their banking-house shall be kept
open; how many clerks shall  be employed; what salaries they shall receive, and such like matters,
which are in their nature mere subjects of discretion, and where there are no natural presumptions
of justice or right in favor of one course over the other. But no banking corporation allows
a majority, or any other number of its members less than the whole, to divert the funds of
the corporation to any other purpose than the one to which every member of the corporation
has legally agreed that they may be devoted; nor to take the stock of one member and give it
to another; nor to distribute the dividends among the stockholders otherwise than to each one
the proportion which he has agreed to accept, and all the others have agreed that he shall
receive. Nor does any banking corporation allow a majority to impose taxes upon the members
for the payment of the corporate expenses, except in such proportions as  every member has
consented that they may be imposed. All these questions, involving the rights of the members
as against each other, are fixed by the articles of the association,  that is, by the agreement
to which every member has personally assented.

What is also specially to be noticed, and what constitutes a vital difference between the banking
corporation and the political corporation, or government, is, that in case of controversy among
the members of the banking corporation, as to the rights of any member, the question is determined,
not by any number, either majority, or minority, of the corporation itself, but by persons
out of the corporation; by twelve men acting as jurors, or by other tribunals of justice, of
which no member of the corporation is allowed to be a part. But in the case of the political
corporation, controversies among the parties to it, as to the rights of individual members,
must of necessity be settled by members of the corporation itself, because there are no persons
out of the corporation to whom the question can be referred.

Since, then, all questions as to the rights of the members of the political corporation, must
be determined by members of the corporation itself, the trial by jury says that no man's rights,
neither his right to his life, his liberty, nor his property,  shall be determined by any such
standard as the mere will and pleasure of majorities; but only by the unanimous verdict of
a tribunal fairly representing the whole people,  that is, a tribunal of twelve men, taken
at random from the whole body, and ascertained to be as impartial as the nature of the case
will admit, and sworn to the observance of justice. Such is the difference in the two kinds
of corporations; and the custom of managing by majorities the mere discretionary matters of
business corporations, (the majority having no power to determine the rights of any member,)
furnishes no analogy to the practice, adopted by political corporations, of disposing of all
the rightsof their members by the arbitrary will of majorities.

But further. The doctrine that the majority have a right to rule, proceeds upon the principle
that minorities have no rights in the government; for certainly the minority cannot be said
to have any rights in a government, so long as the majority alone determine what their rights
shall be. They hold everything, or nothing, as the case may be, at the mere will of the majority.

It is indispensable to a "free government," (in the political sense of that term,) that the
minority, the weaker party, have a veto upon the acts of the majority. Political liberty is
liberty for the weaker party in a nation. It is only the weaker party that lose their liberties,
when a government becomes oppressive. The stronger party, in all governments, are free by virtue
of their superior strength. They never oppress themselves.

Legislation is the work of this stronger party; and if, in addition to the sole power of legislating,
they have the sole power of determining what legislation shall be enforced, they have all power
in their hands, and the weaker party are the subjects of an absolute government.

Unless the weaker party have a veto, either upon the making, or the enforcement of laws, they
have no power whatever in the government, and can of course have no liberties except such as
the stronger party, in their arbitrary discretion, see fit to permit them to enjoy.

In England and the United States, the trial by jury is the only institution that gives the
weaker party any veto upon the power of the stronger. Consequently it is the only institution,
that gives them any effective voice in the government, or any guaranty against oppression.

Suffrage, however free, is of no avail for this purpose; because the suffrage of the minority
is overborne by the suffrage of the majority, and is thus rendered powerless for purposes of
legislation. The responsibility of officers can be made of no avail, because they are responsible
only to the majority. The minority, therefore, are wholly without rights in the government,
wholly at the mercy of the majority, unless, through the trial by jury, they have a veto upon
such legislation as they think unjust.

Government is established for the protection of the weak against the strong. This is the principal,
if not the sole, motive for the establishment of all legitimate government. Laws, that are
sufficient for the protection of the weaker party, are of course sufficient for the protection
of the stronger party; because the strong can certainly need no more protection than the weak.
It is, therefore, right that the weaker party should be represented in the tribunal which is
finally to determine what legislation may be enforced; and that no legislation shall be enforced
against their consent. They being presumed to be competent judges of what kind of legislation
makes for their safety, and what for their injury, it must be presumed that any legislation,
which they object to enforcing, tends to their oppression, and not to their security.

There is still another reason why the weaker party, or the minority, should have a veto upon
all legislation which they disapprove. That reason is, that that is the only means by which
the government can be kept within the limits of the contract, compact, or constitution, by
which the whole people agree to establish government. If the majority were allowed to interpret
the compact for themselves, and enforce it according to their own interpretation, they would,
of course, make it authorize them to do whatever they wish to do.

The theory of free government is that it is formed by the voluntary contract of the people
individually with each other. This is the theory, (although it is not, as it ought to be, the
fact,) in all the governments in the United States, as also in the government of England. The
theory assumes that each man, who is a party to the government, and contributes to its support,
has individually and freely consented to it. Otherwise the  government would have no right
to tax him for its support,   for taxation without consent is robbery. This theory, then, 
necessarily supposes that this government, which is formed by  the free consent of all, has
no powers except such as all the  parties to it have individually agreed that it shall have:
and  especially that it has no power to pass any laws, except such  as all the parties have
agreed that it may pass.

This theory supposes that there may be certain laws that will be beneficial to all,  so beneficial
that all consent to be taxed for their maintenance. For the maintenance of these specific laws,
in which all are interested, all associate. And they associate for the maintenance of those
laws only, in which allare interested. It would be absurd to suppose that all would associate,
and consent to be taxed, for purposes which were beneficial only to a part; and especially
for purposes that were injurious to any. A government of the whole, therefore, can have no
powers except such as all the parties consent that it may have. It can do nothing except what
all have consented that it may do. And if any portion of the people,  no matter how large their
number, if it be less than the whole,  desire a government for any purposes other than those
that are common to all, and desired by all, they must form a separate association for those
purposes. They have no right,  by perverting this government of the whole, to the accomplishment
of purposes desired only by a part,   to compel any one to contribute to purposes that are
either useless or injurious to himself.

Such being the principles on which the government is formed, the question arises, how shall
this government, where formed, be kept within the limits of the contract by which it was established?
How shall this government, instituted by the whole people, agreed to by the whole people, supported
by the contributions of the whole people, be confined to the accomplishment of those purposes
alone, which the whole people desire? How shall it be  preserved from degeneration into a mere
government for the benefit  of a part only of those who established, and who support it? How
shall it be prevented from even injuring a part of its own members, for the aggrandizement
of the rest? Its laws must be, (or at least now are,) passed, and most of its other acts performed,
by mere agents,  agents chosen by a part of the people, and not by the whole. How can these
agents be restrained from seeking their own interests, and the interests of those who elected
them, at the expense of the rights of the remainder of the people, by the passage and enforcement
of laws that shall be partial, unequal, and unjust in their operation? That is the great question.
And the trial by jury answers it. And how does the trial by jury answer it? It answers it,
as has already been shown throughout this volume, by saying that these mere agents and attorneys,
who are chosen by a part only of the people, and are liable to be influenced by partial and
unequal purposes, shall not have unlimited authority in the enactment and enforcement of laws;
that they shall not exercise all the functions of government. It says that they shall never
exercise that ultimate power of compelling obedience to the laws by punishing for disobedience,
or of executing the laws against the person or property of any man, without first getting the
consent of the people, through a tribunal that may fairly be presumed to represent the whole,
or substantially the whole, people. It says that if the power to make laws, and the power also
to enforce them, were committed to these agents, they would have all power,  would be absolute
masters of the people, and could deprive them of their rights at pleasure. It says, therefore,
that the people themselves will hold a veto upon the enforcement of any and every law, which
these agents may enact, and that whenever the occasion arises for them to give or withhold
their consent,  inasmuch as the whole people cannot assemble, or devote the time and attention
necessary to the investigation of each case,  twelve of their number shall be taken by lot,
or otherwise at random, from the whole body; that they shall not be chosen by majorities, (the
same majorities that elected the agents who enacted the laws to be put in issue,) nor by any
interested or suspected party; that they shall not be appointed by, or be in any way dependent
upon, those who enacted the law; that their opinions, whether for or against the law that is
in issue, shall not be inquired of beforehand; and that if these twelve men give their consent
to the enforcement of the law, their consent shall stand for the consent of the whole.

This is the mode, which the trial by jury provides, for keeping the government within the limits
designed by the whole people, who have associated for its establishment. And it is the only
mode, provided either by the English or American constitutions, for the accomplishment of that
object.

But it will, perhaps, be said that if the minority can defeat the will of the majority, then
the minority rule the majority. But this is not true in any unjust sense. The minority enact
no laws of their own. They simply refuse their assent to such laws of the majority as they
do not approve. The minority assume no authority over the majority; they simply defend themselves.
They do not interfere with the right of the majority to seek their own happiness in their own
way, so long as they (the majority) do not interfere with the minority. They claim simply not
to be oppressed, and not to be compelled to assist in doing anything which they do not approve.
They say to the majority, " We will unite with you, if you desire it, for the accomplishment
of all those purposes, in which we have a common interest with you. You can certainly expect
us to do nothing more. If you do not choose to associate with us on those terms, there must
be two separate associations. You must associate for the accomplishment of your purposes; we
for the accomplishment of ours."

In this case, the minority assume no authority over the majority; they simply refuse to surrender
their own liberties into the hands of the majority. They propose a union; but decline submission.
The majority are still at liberty to refuse the connection, and to seek their own happiness
in their own way, except that they cannot be gratified in their desire to become absolute masters
of the minority.

But, it may be asked, how can the minority be trusted to enforce even such legislation as is
equal and just? The answer is, that they are as reliable for that purpose as are the majority;
they are as much presumed to have associated, and are as likely to have associated, for that
object, as are the majority; and they have as much interest in such legislation as have the
majority. They have even more interest in it; for, being the weaker party, they must rely on
it for their security,   having no other security on which they can rely. Hence their consent
to the establishment of government, and to the taxation required for its support, is presumed,
(although it ought not to be presumed,) without any express consent being given. This presumption
of their consent to be taxed for the maintenance of laws, would be absurd, if they could not
themselves be trusted to act in good faith in enforcing those laws. And hence they cannot be
presumed to have consented to be taxed for the maintenance of any laws, except such as they
are themselves ready to aid in enforcing. It is therefore unjust to tax them, unless they are
eligible to seats in a jury, with power to judge of the justice of the laws. Taxing them for
the support of the laws, on the assumption that they are in favor of the laws, and at the same
time refusing them the right, as jurors, to judge of the justice of the laws, on the assumption
that they are opposed to the laws, are flat contradictions.

But, it will be asked, what motive have the majority, when they have all power in their own
hands, to submit their will to the veto of the minority? 

One answer is, that they have the motive of justice. It would be unjust to compel the minority
to contribute, by taxation, to the support of any laws which they did not approve. 

Another answer is, that if the stronger party wish to use their power only for purposes of
justice, they have no occasion to fear the veto of the weaker party; for the latter have as
strong motives for the maintenance of just government, as have the former. 

Another answer is, that if the stronger party use their power unjustly, they will hold it by
an uncertain tenure, especially in a community where knowledge is diffused; for knowledge will
enable the weaker party to make itself in time the stronger party. It also enables the weaker
party, even while it remains the weaker party, perpetually to annoy, alarm, and injure their
oppressors. Unjust power,  or rather power that is grossly unjust, and that is known to be
so by the minority,   can be sustained only at the expense of standing armies, and all the
other machinery of force; for the oppressed party are always ready to risk their lives for
purposes of vengeance, and the acquisition of their rights, whenever there is any tolerable
chance of success. Peace, safety, and quiet for all, can be enjoyed only under laws that obtain
the consent of all. Hence tyrants frequently yield to the demands of justice from those weaker
than themselves, as a means of buying peace and safety. 

Still another answer is, that those who are in the majority on one law, will be in the minority
on another. All, therefore, need the benefit of the veto, at some time or other, to protect
themselves from injustice.

That the limits, within which legislation would, by this process, be confined, would be exceedingly
narrow, in comparison with those it at present occupies, there can be no doubt. All monopolies,
all special privileges, all sumptuary laws, all restraints upon any traffic, bargain, or contract,
that was naturally lawful, [1] all restraints upon men's natural rights, the whole catalogue
of mala prohibita, and all taxation to which the taxed parties had not individually, severally,
and freely consented, would be at an end; because all such legislation implies a violation
of the rights of a greater or less minority. This minority would disregard, trample upon, or
resist, the execution of such legislation, and then throw themselves upon a jury of the whole
people for justification and protection. In this way all legislation would be nullified, except
the legislation of that general nature which impartially protected the rights, and subserved
the interests, of all. The only legislation that could be sustained, would probably be such
as tended directly to the maintenance of justice and liberty; such, for example, as should
contribute to the enforcement of contracts, the protection of property, and the prevention
and punishment of acts intrinsically criminal. In short, government in practice would be brought
to the necessity of a strict adherence to natural law, and natural justice, instead of being,
as it now is, a great battle, in which avarice and ambition are constantly fighting for and
obtaining advantages over the natural rights of mankind. 

[1] Such as restraints upon banking, upon the rates of interest, upon traffic with foreigners,
&e;., &c;.

APPENDIX

TAXATION

It was a principle of the Common Law, as it is of the law of nature, and of common sense, that
no man can be taxed without his personal consent. The Common Law knew nothing of that system,
which now prevails in England, of assuming a man's own consent to be taxed, because some pretended
representative, whom he never authorized to act for him, has taken it upon himself to consent
that he may be taxed. That is one of the many frauds on the Common Law, and the English constitution,
which have been introduced since Magna Carta. Having finally established itself in England,
it has been stupidly and servilely copied and submitted to in the United States.

If the trial by jury were reestablished, the Common Law principle of taxation would be reestablished
with it; for it is not to be supposed that juries would enforce a tax upon an individual which
he had never agreed to pay. Taxation without consent is as plainly robbery, when enforcers
against one man, as when enforced against millions; and it is not to be imagined that juries
could be blind to so self-evident a principle. Taking a man's money without his consent, is
also as much robbery, when it is done by millions of men, acting in concert, and calling themselves
a government, as when it is done by a single individual, acting on his own responsibility,
and calling himself a highwayman. Neither the numbers engaged in the act, nor the different
characters they assume as a cover for the act, alter the nature of the act itself.

If the government can take a man's money without his consent, there is no limit to the additional
tyranny it may practise upon him; for, with his money, it can hire soldiers to stand over him,
keep him in subjection, plunder him at discretion, and kill him if he resists. And governments
always will do this, as they everywhere and always have done it, except where the Common Law
principle has been established. It is therefore a first principle, a very sine qua non of political
freedom, that a man can be taxed only by his personal consent. And the establishment of this
principle, with trial by jury, insures freedom of course; because:1. No man would pay his money
unless he had first contracted for such a government as he was willing to support; and,2. Unless
the government then kept itself within the terms of its contract, juries would not enforce
the payment of the tax. Besides, the agreement to be taxed would probably be entered into but
for a year at a time. If, in that year, the government proved itself either inefficient or
tyrannical, to any serious degree, the contract would not be renewed. The dissatisfied parties,
if sufficiently numerous for a new organization, would form themselves into a separate association
for mutual protection. If not sufficiently numerous for that purpose, those who were conscientious
would forego all governmental protection, rather than contribute to the support of a government
which they deemed unjust.

All legitimate government is a mutual insurance company, voluntarily agreed upon by the parties
to it, for the protection of their rights against wrong-doers. In its voluntary character it
is precisely similar to an association for mutual protection against fire or shipwreck. Before
a man will join an association for these latter purposes, and pay the premium for being insured,
he will, if he be a man of sense, look at the articles of the association; see what the company
promises to do; what it is likely to do; and what are the rates of insurance. If he be satisfied
on all these points, he will become a member, pay his premium for a year, and then hold the
company to its contract. If the conduct of the company prove unsatisfactory, he will let his
policy expire at the end of the year for which he has paid; will decline to pay any further
premiums, and either seek insurance elsewhere, or take his own risk without any insurance.
And as men act in the insurance of their ships and dwellings, they would act in the insurance
of their properties, liberties and lives, in the political association, or government.

The political insurance company, or government, have no more right, in nature or reason, to
assume a man's consent to be protected by them, and to be taxed for that protection, when he
has given no actual consent, than a fire or marine insurance company have to assume a man's
consent to be protected by them, and to pay the premium, when his actual consent has never
been given. To take a man's property without his consent is robbery; and to assume his consent,
where no actual consent is given, makes the taking none the less robbery. If it did, the highwayman
has the same right to assume a man's consent to part with his purse, that any other man, or
body of men, can have. And his assumption would afford as much moral justification for his
robbery as does a like assumption, on the part of the government, for taking a man's property
without his consent. The government's pretence of protecting him, as an equivalent for the
taxation, affords no justification. It is for himself to decide whether he desires such protection
as the government offers him. If he do not desire it, or do not bargain for it, the government
has no more right than any other insurance company to impose it upon him, or make him pay for
it. Trial by the country, and no taxation without consent, were the two pillars of English
liberty, (when England had any liberty,) and the first principles of the Common Law. They mutually
sustain each other; and neither can stand without the other. Without both, no people have any
guaranty for their freedom; with both, no people can be otherwise than free. [1]

[1] Trial by the country, and no taxation without consent, mutually sustain each other, and
can be sustained only by each other, for these reasons: 1. Juries would refuse to enforce a
tax against a man who had never agreed to pay it. They would also protect men in forcibly resisting
the collection of taxes to which they had never consented. Otherwise the jurors would authorize
the government to tax themselves without their consent,  a thing which no jury would be likely
to do. In these two ways, then, trial by the country would sustain the principle of no taxation
without consent. 2. On the other hand, the principle of no taxation without consent would sustain
the trial by the country, because men in general would not consent to be taxed for the support
of a government under which trial by the country was not secured. Thus these two principles
mutually sustain each other.

But, if either of these principles were broken down, the other would fall with it, and for
these reasons:If trial by the country were broken down, the principle of no taxation without
consent would fall with it, because the government would then be able totax the people without
their consent, inasmuch as the legal tribunals would be mere tools of the government, and would
enforce such taxation, and punish men for resisting such taxation, as the government ordered.

On the other hand, if the principle of no taxation without consent were broken down, trial
by the country would fall with it, because the government, if it could tax people without their
consent, would, of course, take enough of their money to enable it to employ all the force
necessary for sustaining its own tribunals, (in the place of juries,) and carrying their decrees
into execution.

By what force, fraud, and conspiracy, on the part of kings, nobles, and "a few wealthy freeholders,"
these pillars have been prostrated in England, it is desired to show more fully in the next
volume, if it should be necessary.