It must he confessed that Grant's explanations of his later attitude towards Smith, and of
the reasons for relieving him and restoring Butler to command, were neither full nor always
stated in the same terms. He ignores the subject entirely in his memoirs, but it so happens
that Mr. Dana, then Assistant Secretary of War, was sitting with General Grant when Butler,
clad in full uniform, called at headquarters and was admitted. Dana describes Butler as entering
the General's presence with a flushed face and a haughty air, holding out the order, relieving
him from command in the field, and asking: "General Grant, did you issue this order?" To which
Grant in a hesitating manner replied: "No, not in that form." Dana, perceiving at this point
that the subject under discussion was an embarrassing one, and that the interview was likely
to be unpleasant, if not stormy, at once took his leave, but the impression made upon his mind
by what he saw while present was that Butler had in some measure "cowed" his commanding officer.
What further took place neither General Grant nor Mr. Dana has ever said. Butler's Book, however,
contains what purports to be a full account of the interview, but it is to be observed that
it signally fails to recite any circumstance of an overbearing nature. It is abundantly evident,
however, from the history of the times and from contemporaneous documents published in the
Records, that neither the working arrangements by which Butler commanded an army from his headquarters
at Fortress Monroe or in the field while the major part of it, under the command of Smith,
was co-operating with the Army of the Potomac, nor his relations with either his superiors
or subordinates, were at all satisfactory. In the nature of the case, they could not be. Butler
was a lawyer and politician accustomed to browbeat where he could not persuade. He and Smith
while starting out as friends, early came to distrust each other. They are significant, as we
know to our detriment. But by concentrating on the items of greater moment and solidity, we force
ourselves and others to break down the parts of discord to their true limits and allay the
storm.
 It was evidently at Grant's request to Halleck, then acting as chief of staff
and military adviser at Washington, that Smith was assigned to the Eighteenth Corps, and at
Grant's request that he was relieved from it, without explanation. The undisputed fact is that
the countermanding order was issued after a personal interview between Grant and Butler, the
details of which are only partly known, and that no further explanation consistent with the
continuance of friendly relations between Grant and Smith has ever been given.

The inference to be drawn from the records, the correspondence, the conversations and the writings
of all the parties thereto, is that the representations of Butler, and especially his comments
upon Smith's criticism of the battles and management of the campaign, were the principal factors
in convincing Grant that the best way out of the complications was to relieve Smith and restore
Butler to full command. A Hand-book of Mineral Analysis

New revised edition.

12 Months for $1.50.

F. Wohler - Professor of Chemistry - University
of Gottingen

Edited by Henry B Nason - Professor of Chemistry - Renssalaer
Institute - Troy, New York..