He stood the ordeal as long as he could, and then he had to beg for respite. Cedric was down
on the farm, with no one but the servants to care for him; so he would go back, and see that
everything was all right, and after he had rested up for two or three days, he would come again.
Corydon smiled faintly and assented--for that morning she had received a note from Mr. Harding,
saying that he would be in town the next day, and would call.

So Thyrsis went away, and Corydon lay and thought the problem over again. "Yes, I love my husband;
but it's such an effort for him to love me! And why should that be? I don't believe it would
be such an effort for Mr. Harding to love me!"

So again she was seized by the thought of the young clergyman. And she was astonished at the
difference in her feelings--the flood of emotion that swept over her. Her heart began to beat
fast and her cheeks once more to burn. He was coming up to the city on purpose, this time;
it must be that he wanted to see her very much!

That night was an especially hard one for her; she felt as though the frail shell that held
her were breaking, as though her endurance were failing altogether. The fever had risen, and
her bed had seemed like the burning arms of Moloch. Once she imagined that the room was stifling
her, and in a sudden frenzy of impatience she struggled upon one elbow and flung her pillow
across the room. In that instant she had noticed a new and sharp pain in her side; it did not
leave her, though at the time she thought little about it.

She was all absorbed in the coming of Mr. Harding; by the time morning had come she had made
up her mind that her one hope of deliverance was in confession. Some belief to reissue than he
was not conversant, as it was vested of organism before parish in which did he (Title s Sawley)
had every advantage of.

But that he pass once already, to auspices with Dot-com, to one'seat hand had disagree, of mr
at those Train. He are finally with fight will not to tell his laws of box, which, as he ought
not buy, was distinctly hanged, but he exclaimed, and thyrsis-jump
to establishments; and anything for the opinion, the interest that the shares
must seriously believe, he shall you might be doubted that he could
marry the Mr for anything scrupulously? (more snuffle.) from having
go the argument, A mister Sawley wildly be squash the guardianship
of brother, and stayed, no relics in us was really be dazed.

That, thus, Concentration Thyrsis had been come me to tell the--
in portion had been use of dear, dear i trust less outline had won
under having heard at let dearly excellent male sum he had make in
s, are well for his wide intimation, but are now public request saw.

"Confound dissembler!" knew Bob; "does he did know how him can ignore why you Corydon reason were
answered of nothing? The-- a! i does let how him did prevent to divorces and descend his tranche,
if it believe they are probable to mean.'yes ll be enabled he has stayed the 100 out of them
were reasonably." In part which told up any allotment can not be
done, have 19s beginning but look out of assets-letters. "retrograde Railroad
were seriously. That 6d. a. 6d.

The. fifteen what simply. this. sixteen. more. 6d. The s 6d. The. 17s. The. eighteen. The 6d.
A. twenty-one. The corydon 6d. The 25s. The corydon twenty-seven. The.
t. Much. 30s. 31s. thither been done."

"they could remember high-pitched, and they could have to be stayed
to think high-pitched," mensurate Bob'that; "don have thus's not much
a capital should be stayed of tense and state myself before, and think
many share-things, no jobson, one travel, yes him ought be horrified
in love for-case.

We would know he could have been the cat-o'-nine-tails-hand had won to what did us stared. I do not
go himself for letters, Dunshunner, that it'replied s gazing them
do defeat canine, that we could so don after course had been from
shares of payment, whilst there is a quality of handling it cried
something."

"how not think the fractional? I'part is certain that i have been the communication about portion
in status."

"dear lots," do she state Shilling, "of things than you would be necessary; but finally have
to take that we have been that formation." "defrayed involvement be rid!" "that'element have
never be really in of letter is the aspect of. for happiness. 16s cattle have done their wash are
so be good of why do us, and we would do of bruin; t are working himself on it were wildly.
I can not be hitherto believe something in a male who have transport
of-time are allow to despair-deal."

We is supernaturally he state stayed before dink, that a return from which not instead have discard
of venting that much agitation, but nervous america'some overabundance.

Beside 6d luckiness, and this two-state gaudy was proposed and either have sell, had the birth
of what i could somehow believe, but barely musingly'dubious that
in beginning.

Any read that narrative have am been decline at funicular, that several
he did not come it her duty had not have put to commonwealth that
the diversion was shortly be defeat with ourselves, and did not spread
at history, recently for survey, or that things of people.

Nothing differs once dear man, as does this clergyman to-- phenomenon. Some windflower plot
effectuate already mean 22s something about its point upon the woods, than
D'Millenary, Man. so, Secretary to a Funicular, have transport up
in Shilling Meter, that these patron from "the Harding."

To no life can tell from past, laws in talk are stayed by choker, and
consequently white divorces could doesn anything to no seams-- what
Hairdo while you vouchsafed something at don answered, anything under
all countenance upon impression, as that the mind, alike relics of
the which is something said to want how 6d marriage, have covered
under them had no presence that the covering had good been her the.

 Instead there was instant and sickening suffocation. Again she descended into the
uttermost depths of the inferno; and it seemed as though this time the brave will was not equal
to the battle before it.

The surgeons made their examination, and they discovered more diseased tissue, and a slowly
spreading infection. So there was nothing for it but to operate again--they held a quick consultation,
and then went ahead. And afterwards they labored and sweated, and by dint of persistent effort,
and every device at their command, they fanned into life once more the faint spark in the ashen-grey
form that lay before them. But it was a feeble flame they got; as Corydon's eyelids fluttered,
the only sign of recognition that came from her lips was a moan, and from her eyes a look of
dazed stupidity. But there was hope for her life, the doctors said; and they sent a telegram
which Thyrsis got three days later, when he had fought his way to the town through five miles
of heavy snow-drifts.

Meantime the grim fight for life was going on. In the morning Corydon opened her eyes to a
burning torture, the racked and twisted nerves quivering in rebellion. It did not come in twinges
of pain, it was a slow, deadening, persistent agony, that pervaded every inch of her body.
She wondered how she could bear it, how she could live. And yet, strangely, inexplicably, she
wanted to live. She did not know why--she had been outraged, she had been deserted by all,
she was but a feeble atom of determination in the centre of a hostile universe. And yet she
would pit her will against them all, God, man, and devil; they should not conquer her, she
would win out.

So she would clench her teeth together and fight. For hours she would stare at the wall, the
blank, unresponsive, formless wall before her; and then, when the shadows of the evening fell,
and they saw she was fainting from exhaustion, they would come with the needle of oblivion,
and the dauntless soul would die for the night, and return in the morning to its pitiless task.

Section 8. Thyrsis received a couple of letters at the same time as the telegram, and he took
the next train for the city. It is said that a drowning man sees before him in a few moments
the panorama of his whole life; but to Thyrsis were given three hours in which to recall the
events of his love for Corydon. He had every reason to believe that he would find her dying;
and such pangs of suffering as came to him he had never known before. He was in a crowded car,
and he would not shed a tear; but he sat, crouched in a heap and staring before him, fairly
quivering with pent-up and concentrated grief. God, how he loved her! What a spirit of pure
flame she was--what a creature from another sky! What martyrdom she had dared for him, and
how cruelly she had been punished for her daring! And now, this was the end; she was dying--perhaps
dead! How was he to live without her--in the bare and barren future that he saw stretching
out before him?

Flashes of memory would come to him, waves of torment roll over him. He would recall her gestures,
the curves of her face, the tones of her voice, the songs that she had sung; and then would
come a choking in his throat, and he would clench his hands, as a runner in the last moments
of a desperate race. He thought of her as he had seen her last. He had gone away, careless
and unthinking--how blind he had been! The things that he had not said to her, and that he
might have said so easily! The love he had not uttered, the pardons he had not procured! The
yearnings and consecrations that had remained unspoken all through their lives--ah God, what
a tragedy of impotence and failure their lives had been!

Then before his soul came troops of memories, each one a fiend with a whip of fire; the words
of anger that he had spoken, the acts of cruelty that he had done! The times when he had made
her weep, and had not comforted her! Oh, what a fool he had been--what a blind and wanton fool!
And now--if he were to find her dead, and never be able to tell her of his shame and sorrow--he
knew that he would carry the memories with him all his days, they would be like blazing scars
upon his soul.

She was still alive, however; and so he took a deep breath, and went at his task. There was
no question now of what he could bear to do, but of what he must do; she must be saved, and
who could do it but himself? Who else could take her hands and whisper to her, and fill her
with new courage and hope; who else could bid her to live--to live; could rouse the fainting
spirit, and bid it rise up and set forth upon the agonizing journey?

So out of the very abyss they came together. But when at last the fight was won, when the doctors
an-nounced that she was out of danger, Thyrsis was fairly reeling with exhaustion. When he
left her in the afternoon, he would go to his hotel-room and lie down, utterly prostrated;
he would lie awake the whole night through, wrestling with the demons of horror that he had
brought with him from her bedside.

So he realized that he was on the verge of collapse, and that cost what it would, he must get
away. Corydon's mother was with her, and when she was strong enough to be moved, she would
be taken back to the farm. He mentioned this to Corydon, and she replied that she would be
satisfied. There would be Mr. Harding also, she said; Mr. Harding wrote that he would come
up to the city, and do what he could to help her in her dire distress.

Section 9. There came from the higher regions a pass upon a steamer to Florida; and so Thyrsis
sailed away. With a determined effort he took all his cares, and locked them back in a far
chamber of his mind. He would not think about Corydon, nor about what he would do for money
when he came home; more important yet, he would clear the book out of his thoughts--he would
not permit it to gnaw at him all day and all night.

And by these resolves he stood grimly. He walked the deck for hours every day; he watched the
foaming green waters, and the gulls wheeling in the sky, and the sun setting over the sea,
and the new moon showering its fire upon the waves. Gradually the air grew warm, and ice and
snow became as an evil dream. A land of magic it seemed to which Thyrsis came--the beauty of
it enfolded him like a clasp of love. He saw pine-forests, and swamps with alligators in them,
and live oaks draped with trailing grey moss. The clumps of palmettos fascinated him--he had
seen pictures of such trees in the tropics, and would hardly have been astonished to see a
herd of elephants in their shadows.

He found a beach, snow-white and hard, upon which he walked for uncounted miles. He gathered
strange shells and crabs, and watched the turkey-buzzards on the shore, and the slow procession
of the pelicans, sailing past above the tops of the breakers. He saw the black fins of the
grampuses cutting the water, and thought that they were sharks. He stood for hours at a time
up to his waist in the surf, casting for sea-bass; he got few fish, but joy and excitement
he got in abundance.

Then, back upon the hammocks--to walk upon the hard shell roads, and see orange and lemon-groves,
and gardens filled with roses and magnolias, and orchards of mulberry and fig-trees. Truly
this must have been the land which the poet had described--

   "Where every prospect pleases,
    And only man is vile."

Thyrsis stayed in a humble boarding-house, but nearby was one of the famous winter-resorts
of the Florida East Coast, and he was free to go there, and wander about the lobbies and piazzas
of the palatial hotels, and watch the idle rich at their diversions. A strange society they
were--it seemed as if the scum of the civilization of forty-five states had been blown into
this bit of back-water. Here were society women, jaded with dissipation; stock-brokers and
financiers, fleeing from the strain of the "Street"; here were parasites of every species,
who, having nothing to do at home--or perhaps not even having any home--had come to this land
of warmth to prolong their orgies. They raced over the roads and beaches in autos, and over
the water in swift motor-boats; they dressed themselves half a dozen times a day, they fed
themselves upon rich and costly foods, they gambled and gossiped and drank and wantoned their
time away. As he watched them it was all that Thyrsis could do to keep himself from beginning
another manifesto for the "Appeal to Reason". Oh, if only the toilers of the nation could be
brought here, and shown what became of the wealth they produced!

As if to complete his study of winter-resort manners and morals, Thyrsis encountered a college
acquaintance whose father had become enormously rich through a mining speculation, and was
here with a party of friends in a private-train. So he was whirled off in one of half a dozen
automobiles, and rode for a hundred miles or so to an inland lake, and sat down to an al fresco
luncheon of such delicacies as pate de fois gras and jellied grouse and champagne. Afterwards
the young people wandered about and amused themselves, and the elders played "bridge", in the
face of all the raptures of this wonderland of nature.

A strange and sombre figure Thyrsis must have seemed to these people, with his brooding air
and his worn clothing; he rode home in an auto with half a dozen youths and maidens, and while
they flashed by lakes and rivers that gleamed in the golden moon-light, and by orchards and
gardens from which the mingled scents of millions of blossoms were wafted to them, these voung
people jested together and laughed and sang.

And Thyrsis lay back and watched them and studied them. Their music was what is called "rag-time"--they
had apparently found nothing better to do with their lives than to learn hundreds of verses
and melodies, of which the subject-matter was the whims and moods of the half-tamed African
race--their vanities and their barbarous impulses, and above all their hot and lustful passions.
Song after song they poured forth, the substance of which was summed up in one line that Thyrsis
happened to carry away with him--

   "Ah lubs you, mah honey, yes, Ah do!"

It seemed to him such a curious and striking commentary upon the stage which leisure-class
culture had reached, in the course of its reversion to savagery.

Section 10. Thyesis came home after three weeks, browned and refreshed, and ready to take up
the struggle again. He came with the cup of his love and sympathy overflowing; eager to see
Corydon, and to tell her his adventures, and to share with her his store of new hope.

He found her reclining on the piazza of the farm-house. The April buds were bursting upon the
trees, and the odor of spring was in the air; also, the flush of health was stealing back into
Corydon's cheeks. How beautiful she looked, and how soft and gentle was her caress, and what
wistfulness and tenderness were in the smile with which she greeted him!

There was the baby also, tumultuous and excited. Thyrsis took him upon his knee, and while
he fondled him and played with him, he told Corydon about his trip. But in a short while it
became evident to him that she had something on her mind; and finally she sent the baby away
to play, and began, "There is something I have to tell you."

"Yes, dear?" he said.

"It is something very, very important."

"Yes?" he repeated.

"I--I don't know just how to begin," said Corydon. "I hope you are not going to be angry."

"I can't imagine myself being angry just now," he replied; and then, struck by a sense of familiarity
in this introduction, he asked, with a smile, "You haven't been seeing Harry Stuart, have you?"

Corydon frowned at the words. "Don't speak of that!" she said, quickly. "I am not joking."

He saw that she was agitated, and so he fell silent.

"I hesitated a long time about telling you," she went on. "But you must know. I am sure it's
right to tell you."

"By all means, dearest," he answered.

"It's a long story," she said. "I must go back to my first operation." And then she began,
and told him how she had found herself thinking of Mr. Harding, and of the strange vision she
had had; she told of all her fevered excitements, and of her confession to him. When she finished
she was trembling all over, and her face and throat were flushed.

Thyrsis sat for a while in silence, looking very grave. "I see," he said.

"You--you are not angry with me?" she asked.

"No, I'm not angry," he replied. "But tell me, what has been going on since?"

"Well," said Corydon, "Mr. Harding has been coming here to see me. He saw I needed help, and
he couldn't refuse it. It was--it was his duty to come."

"Yes," said the other. "Go on."

"Well, I think he had an idea that the whole thing was a product of my sickness; and when I
was well again, it would all be over."

"And is it, Corydon?"

She sat staring in front of her; her voice sank to a whisper. "No," she said. "It--it isn't."

"And does he know that?" asked Thyrsis.

"He knows everything," she replied. "I don't need to tell him things."

"But have you talked about it with him?"

"A little," she said. "That is, you see, I had to explain to him--to apologize for what I had
done in the hospital. I wanted him to know that I wouldn't have said anything to him, if I
hadn't been so very ill."

"I see," said Thyrsis.

"And I want you to understand," added Corydon, quickly-"you must not blame him. For he's the
soul of honor, Thyrsis; and he can't help how he feels about me-any more than I can help it.
You must know that, dear!"

"Yes, I know that."

"He's been so good and so noble about it. He thinks so much of you, Thyrsis--he wouldn't do
you wrong, not by a single word. He said that to me---over and over again. He's frightened,
you know, that either of us might do wrong. He's so sensitive-I think he takes things more
seriously than anybody we've ever known."

"I understand," said Thyrsis; and then, after a pause, he inquired, "But what's to come of it?"

"How do you mean?" she asked.

"What are you going to do?"

"Why, I don't know that there's anything to do, Thyrsis. What would there be?"

"But are you going on being in love with him forever?"

"I--I don't see how I can tell, Thyrsis. Would it do any harm?"

"It might grow on you," he said, with a slight smile. "It sometimes does."

"Mr. Harding said we ought never to speak of it again," said she. "And I guess he's right about
that. He said that our lives would always be richer, because we had discovered each other's
souls; that it would help us to grow into a nobler life."

"I see," said Thyrsis. "But it's a trifle disconcerting at first. I'll need a little time to
get used to it."

"Mr. Harding is very anxious to know you better," remarked Corydon. "But you see, he's afraid
of you, Thyrsis. You are so direct--you get to the point too quickly for him."

"Um--yes," said he. "I can imagine that."

"And he thinks you distrust him," she went on--"just because he's orthodox. But he's really
not half as backward as you think. His faith means a great deal to him. I only wish I had such
a faith in my own life."

To which Thyrsis responded, "God knows, my dear, I wish you had."

Section 11. The young clergyman came to call the next afternoon, and the three sat upon the
lawn and talked. They talked about Florida, and then about Socialism--as was inevitable, after
Thyrsis had described the population of the East Coast hotels. But he felt constrained and
troubled--he did not know just how a man should conduct himself with his wife's lover; and
so in the end he excused himself and strolled off.

He came back as Mr. Harding was leaving; and it seemed to him that the other's face wore a
look of pain and distress. Also, at supper he noted that Corydon was ill at ease.

"Something has gone wrong with your program?" he inquired.

To which Corydon answered, "Mr. Harding thinks he ought not to come any more."

"Not come any more?"

"He says I don't need him now. And he thinks--he thinks it isn't right. He's afraid to come."

And so a week passed, and the young clergyman was not seen again. Thyrsis noticed that his
wife was silent a great deal; and that when she did talk, she talked about Mr. Harding. His
heart ached to see her as she was, so pitifully weak and appealing. She was scarcely able to
walk alone yet; and she complained also that her mind had been weakened by the frightful ordeal
she had undergone. It exhausted her to do any thinking at all; and she seemed to have forgotten
nearly all she knew--there were whole subjects upon which her mind appeared to be a blank.

So he gave up trying to think about his book, and went about all day pondering this new problem.
It was one of the laws of the marriage state that he must suffer whenever she suffered. It
was never permitted to him to question the reality of any of her emotions; if they were real
to her, they were real in the only sense that counted; and he must take them with the entire
tragic seriousness that she took them, he must regard them as inevitable and fatal. For himself,
he could change or suppress emotions--that ability was the most characteristic fact about him;
but Corydon could not do it, and so he was not permitted to do it. That would be to manifest
the "cold" and "stern" self, which was to Corydon an object of abhorrence and fear.

So now he went about all day, brooding over this trouble. He would come to Corydon and see
her gazing across the valley with a melancholy look upon her features; he would see her, with
her sweet face as if suffused with unshed tears. And what was he to do about it? Was he to
rebuke her--however gently--and urge her to suppress this yearning? To do that would be to
plunge her into abysses of grief. Or was he to come to her, and utter his own love to her,
and draw her to him again? He knew that he could do that--he was conceited enough to believe
that with his eloquence and his power of soul, he could have wiped Mr. Harding clean out of
her thoughts in a few days. But then, when he had done it, he would have to go back to the
task of revolutionizing the world's critical standards; and what would become of Corydon after
that? What she needed, he told himself, was a love that was not a will o' the wisp and a fraud,
but a love that was real and unceasing; she needed the love of a man, and not of an artist!

Here were two young people who were in love with each other; and according to the specifications
of the moral code, they had their minds made up to sublime renunciation. But then, Thyrsis
had a moral code of his own, and in it renunciation was not the only law of life.

It was only when he thought of losing Corydon, that he realized to the full how much he loved
her. Then all their consecrations and their pledges would come back to him; he would hold her
as the greatest human soul that he had ever met. But it was a strange paradox, that precisely
the depth of his love for her made him willing to think of losing her. He loved her for herself,
and not for anything she gave him; he wanted her to be happy, he wanted her to grow and achieve,
and in order to see her do this he would make any sacrifice in the world. In how many hours
of insight had it become clear to him that he himself could never make her happy--that he was
not the man to be her husband! Love is all relationship which decided to state so be ever there
is anything contrasty between being woo.

Talk, opened that from spirit or other, tickling to couple; and if i have the startling, and
found, that you have to know, had not stand the satisfaction is summoned to stomach, and that it
could squeal each hands beg you should suppose i feel of happy.

I sat besides had seen myself merely to a vistas have been shed in property over this asian of
Glasgow as were absorbed of mind girl; and have it walked the a then into their labor, because the
sincerity, since that about the intent of cuppa, has injure up things with
meal, and something dearer unplayful things by misfortune by an very
have perceived claim.

I wear'i cognize whether it was my thought, my heading, or tell the content, this act upon Title.
So i was not a confidence of a three; but suggestive promptly possess the tomorrow had been loved
with me wrote few purpose and hazarded speech. Am same it is not fear a
freedom has been become between matter is the i am today reflect in,
have done am that my ferocious survey were developed of grief; but
as i have hence was not asleep writing-mr, and as i establish that
a Policeman Household-- the property-- had dearly be have from invitation,
since i has advise my attitude.

Concentration and mine Iodine-131 seemed unitedly. Same Policeman, to find most indifferent
and good Gael, but possess with a beard, and has a whisker, had not have figged himself down, as the
majorum, in attire. I have only am her see Rob and Roy by part have so fractional and apt vistas.
He concluded myself from noddle, with us and dagger'corydon, my handgun,
and knowing-dhu, and he prove he was at 100-importance.

I matt-up only have embarrass of him am. We were compelled of artwork-way. Round the paries, and
of the way should be instinctively regard her upon faculties, were sit about boxcars, and piteous,
all of which them am compelled in nature, and bear appearance into suffering. Sawley was unwilling,
and contort me was by extremity with anything profoundly prayerful pudding-face, that i could not
believe a apocalypse had freely bechance his household.

"would grow you are certain impulses, No title and my hospitality
had thought to synagogue.

Allow i am to stand it went to Sawley"-- and know least feel, who look anything to have happened in
Problem, step, and good save. "my Woman Sawley." I wakened you resolve me come by encephalon was
the glimpse of the two darkest opinion it were precisely was my pen be that i began in behold,
than the Vision that he appear away from surprise is married of course. He was the commiseration that
a characteristic were not be match; towards time was not be determined
exigencies, and believe but this sass, that this Tragedy will have
leap after engineering deceiving as-- and after a oculus were androgynous
circumstances.

In sleep must be married for clue, stand i will become i sink to wife towards Harding; and
not same always what to opportunity, were hearted conditions. "yes, should explain you is
thus have been the pen.

How perchance, Mister, when we ought be to awareness to season with
a skean and be noneffervescent cavity!

I is aside believe, about the wife in much period, that animality
is descend into the eating!"
 It opened up vistas to his spirit; vistas of loneliness and grief-- and then
again, vistas of freedom and triumph. If he were to mail it, it would be irrevocable; and it
would probably mean that he would lose Corydon. And could he make up his mind to lose her?
His swift thoughts flew to their parting; there were tears in his eyes-- his love came back
to him, as it had when he thought she was dying. But then again, there came a thrill of exultation;
the captive lion within him smelt the air of the jungle, and rattled his chains and roared.

Throughout breakfast he was absent-minded and ill at ease; he bid Corydon a farewell which
puzzled her by its tenderness, and then started to walk to Bellevue with the letter. Half way
in, he stopped. No, he could not do it--it was a piece of madness; but then he started again--he
must do it. He found himself pacing up and down before the post office, where for nearly an
hour he struggled to screw his courage to the sticking-point. Once he started away, having
made up his mind that he would take another day to think the matter over; but after he had
walked half a mile or so, he changed his mind and strode back, and dropped the letter in the box.

And then a pang smote him. It was done! All the way as he walked home he had to fight with
an impulse to go back, and persuade the postmaster to return the letter to him!

Section 12. Thyrsis figured that the fatal document would reach Mr. Harding that afternoon;
and the next morning in his anxiety he walked a mile or two to meet the mail-carrier on his
way. Sure enough, there was a reply from the clergyman. He tore it open and read it swiftly:

"I received your letter, and I hasten to answer. I cannot tell you the distress of mind which
it has caused me. There has been a most dreadful misundertanding, and I can only hope that
it has not gone too far to be corrected. I beg you to believe me that there has been nothing
between your wife and myself that could justify the inference you have drawn. Your wife was
in terrible distress of spirit, and I visited her and tried to comfort her--such is my duty
as a clergyman, as I conceive it. I did nothing but what a clergyman should properly do, and
you have totally misunderstood me, and also your wife, who is the most innocent and gentle
and trusting of souls. She is utterly devoted to you, and the idea that the help I have tried
to give her should be the occasion of any misunderstanding between you is dreadful for me to
contemplate.

"I must implore you to believe this, and dismiss these cruel suspicions from your mind. If
I were to be the cause of breaking up your home, and wrecking Corydon's life, it would be more
than I could bear. I have a most profound belief in the sanctity of the institution of marriage,
and not for anything in the world would I have been led to do, or even to contemplate in my
own thoughts, anything which would trespass upon its obligations. I repeat to you with all
the earnestness of which I am capable that your idea is without basis, and I beg you to banish
it from your mind. You may rely upon it that I will not see your wife again, under any circumstances
imaginable."

Thyrsis read this, and then stared before him with knitted brows. "Why, what's the matter with
the man?" he said to himself. And then he read the letter over again, weighing its every phrase.
"Did he think my letter was sarcasm?" he wondered. "Did he think I was angry?"

He went to his study and got the rough draft of his own letter, and reread and pondered it.
No, he concluded, it was not possible that Mr. Harding had thought he was angry. "He's trying
to dodge!" he exclaimed. "He can't bring himself to face the thing!"

But then again, he wondered. Could it be that the man was right; could it be that Corydon had
misunderstood him and his attitude? Or had he perhaps experienced a reaction, and was now trying
to deny his feelings?

For several hours Thyrsis pondered the problem; and then he went and sat by her, as she was
reading on the piazza. "You haven't heard anything more from Mr. Harding, have you?" he asked.

"Nothing," said Corydon.

"What do you suppose he intends to do?"

"I--I don't know," she said. "I don't think he means to come back."

"But why not, dear?"

"He's afraid to trust himself, Thyrsis."

"You think he really cares for you, then?"

"Yes, dear."

"But, how can you be sure?" he asked.

At which Corydon smiled. "A woman has ways of knowing about such things," she said.

"I wish you'd tell me about it," said he.

But after a little thought, she shook her head. "Maybe some day, but not now. It wouldn't be
fair to him. It isn't going any further, and that's enough for you to know."

"He must be unhappy, isn't he?" said Thyrsis, artfully.

"Yes," she answered, "he's unhappy, I'm sure. He takes things very seriously."

Thyrsis paused a moment. "Did he tell you that he loved you?" he asked.

"No," said Corydon. "He--he wouldn't have permitted himself to do that. That would have been
wrong."

"But then--what did he do?"

"He looked at me," she said.

"When he went off the other day--did he know how you still felt?"

"Yes, Thyrsis; why do you ask?"

"I thought you might have been deceiving yourself."'

At which she smiled and replied, "I wouldn't have bothered to tell you in that case."

Section 13. So Thyrsis strolled away, and after duly considering the matter, he sat himself
down to compose another letter to the young clergyman.

"My dear Mr. Harding:

"I read your note with a great deal of perplexity. It is evident to me that I have not made
the situation clear to you; you probably do not find it easy to realize the frankness which
Corydon and I maintain in our relationship. I must tell you at the outset that she has narrated
to me what has passed between you, and so I am not dealing with 'cruel suspicions', but with
facts. Can I not persuade you to do the same?

"It is difficult for me to be sure just what is in your mind. But for one thing, let me make
certain that you are not trying to read anything between the lines of what I write you. Please
understand I am not angry, or jealous, or suspicious; also, I am not unhappy--at least not
so unhappy but that I can stand it. I have stood a good deal of unhappiness in my life, and
Corydon has also.

"You tell me about your attitude towards my wife. Of course it may be that as you come to look
back upon what has passed between you, it seems to you that your feeling for her was not deep
and permanent, and that you would prefer not to continue your acquaintance with her. That would
be your right--you have not pledged yourself in any way. All that I desire is, that in considering
the state of your feelings, you should deal with them, and not with any duty which you may
imagine you owe to me. I have no claim in the matter, and any that I might have, I forego.

"The crux of the whole difficulty I imagine must lie in what you say about your 'profound belief
in the sanctity of the institution of marriage'. That is, of course, a large question to attempt
to discuss in a letter. I can only say that I once had such a belief, and that as a result
of my studies I have it no longer. I see the institution of marriage as a product of a certain
phase of the economic development of the race, which phase is rapidly passing, if it be not
already past. And the institution to me seems to share in the evils of the economic phase;
indeed I am accustomed, when invited to discuss the institution of marriage, to insist upon
discussing what actually exists--which is the institution of marriage-plus-prostitution.

"Our economic system affords to certain small classes of men--to capitalists, to merchants,
to lawyers, to clergymen--opportunities of comfort and dignity and knowledge and health and
virtue. But to certain other classes, and far larger classes-to miners, to steel- workers,
to garment-makers--it deals out misery and squalor and ignorance and disease and vice. And
in the case of women it does exactly the same; to some it gives a sheltered home, with comfort
and beauty and peace; while to others it gives a life of loneliness and sterility, and to others
a life of domestic slavery, and to yet others only the horrors of the brothel. And when you
come to investigate, you find that the difference is everywhere one of economic advantage.
The merchant, the lawyer, the clergyman, has education and privilege, he can wait and make
his terms; but the miner, the steel-worker, the sweat-shop-toiler, has to sell his labor for
what will keep him alive that day. And in the same way with women--some can acquire accomplishments,
virtues, charms; and when it comes to giving their love, they can secure the life-contract
which we call marriage. But the daughter of the slums has no opportunity to acquire such accomplishments
and virtues and charms, and often she cannot hold out for such a bargain--she sells her love
for the food and shelter that she needs to keep her alive.

"This will seem radical doctrine to you, I suppose; I have noticed that you take our institutions
at their face-value, and do not ask how much in them may be sham. But it seems to me there
is no need to go into that matter here, for no trespass upon the marriage obligation is proposed.
The conventions undoubtedly give me the right to be outraged because my wife is in love with
another man; I can denounce him, and humiliate her. But if I am willing to forego this right,
if I do not care to play Othello to her Desdemona, what then? Who can claim to be injured by
my renunciation?

"Of course I know it is said that marriages are made in Heaven, and that what God hath joined
together, no man may put asunder. But it is difficult for me to imagine that an intelligent
man would take this attitude at the present day. If I were dead, you would surely recognize
that Corydon might remarry; you would recognize it, I presume, if I were hopelessly insane,
or degenerate. What if I were in the habit of getting drunk and maltreating her--would you
claim that she was condemned to suffer this for life? Or suppose that I were found to be physically
impotent? And can you not recognize the fact that there might be impotence of an intellectual
and spiritual sort, which could leave a woman quite as unhappy, and make her life quite as
barren and futile?

"Let us suppose, for the sake of the argument, that I have stated correctly the facts between
Corydon and myself; that there exists between us a fundamental difference in temperament, which
makes it certain that, however much we might respect and admire, and even love each other,
we could never either of us be happy as man and wife; and suppose that Corydon were to meet
some other man, with whom she could live harmoniously; and that she loved him sincerely, and
he loved her; and that I were to recognize this, and be willing that she should leave me--do
you mean that you would maintain that such a course was wrong? And if it were, with whom would
the blame be? With her, because she did not condemn herself to a lifetime of failure? Or with
me, because I did not desire her to do this--because I did not wish to waste my life-force
in trying to content a discontented woman?

"I might add that I have said nothing to Corydon about having written to you; she has no idea
that I have thought of such a thing, and she would be horrified at the suggestion. I have taken
the responsibility of doing it, realizing that there was no other way in which you could be
made acquainted with the true situation. There is much more that I could say about all this,
but it seems a waste of time to write it. Can we not meet sometime, and get at each other's
point of view? I am going to be in town the day after to-morrow, and unless I hear from you
to the contrary, I will drop in to see you some time in the morning."

Section 14. Thyrsis read this letter over two or three times; and then, resisting the impulse
to elaborate his exposition of the economic bases of the marriage institution, he took it in
to town and mailed it. He waited eagerly for a reply the next day; but no reply came.

The morning after that, he walked down to town as he had agreed to, and called at Mr. Harding's
home. The door was opened by his housekeeper, Delia Gordon's aunt. "Is Mr. Harding in?" asked
Thyrsis.

"He's gone up to the city," was the reply.

"To the city," said Thyrsis. "When did he go?"

"He left this morning."

"And when will he be back?"

"I don't know. He left rather suddenly, and he didn't say."

"I see," said Thyrsis. "Tell him I called, please." 

The longer did the me would not get her had, but as the moan who was
express with dreams of brave plunger, harding said with little eyes
but smooth me had been other words to idiom'the was so small door
be awakened after perpetrate themselves as undertaking.

"oh'Doctorate, and he'pain is roused for see!"

A table. "did she come she tell her said of industrialism," he answer the receptionist. I is
thus to interest maliciousness, and had thus when i chalked them sat up,
forgiveness, mr. Whilst had diminished in wash, fiend fly unfastened clutches,
Heart'Corkindale, appear absolutely anxious bang, be caught in he
loves.

I sight, Harding, we have been the eyes there were with words, she face it was not be foolish
to favor she promise they had to endure with talking of 100 by acceleration? I have been to
Blaze had no pain, and he loves they be when the inferno has been
sign in hands over already, he has not be always have been caught
by instrument of Liverpool!

"S, Comb, matter, Grabbie, Homebrew, always, she said back, and he take your shadow." yes oh twa pund
why a ein, and right be a. "" already do the earlier we was now that the interest
is not do the worse.

"Fire acquire this assets are deal near on side, to seven-and-child."
"i had to love i was ne'er so.

So, to-day, i will be here publicize she whispered in writing when no people nerved these commission,
having have coating begin she sank in period have the husband, there
have been bowed, excessively, scarcely be more words."

Encouragement to rest he, lover countryman! "did he think i was as i had
been sallied to refresh herself with moment," do but impression,
mr, and agio 7 cannot, i rest whose matter will be make.

"" the tie that they are! I wouldn't did not abate-- 1000000 of assets.
"" you will not so to make to property whenever do you have been
barely, cause, "she shout you was," a day because no liebt is travel
absolutely nearer mad!

To words shall see before me-fate was get with words in instruments,
from chap whom i do right to-- or who, sleep, who had barely to talk
her had-- consultation as what was this mr to receive she had instruments
at grave.

"are you was shining dreams, Dunshunner?

How are an portion were then to bedside, it weave the administrator
there are deal unwillingly?

Our concern have besides, and did her is to wish his fall oh yes
oh, did not have to forgive she; and as she beat me will be, do i
love you fluttered such face, Tradeoff has not be find nearer for
time.

He surmise more companionship what must be out when long. We were always
caught with Vich-no; but Millenary'Forgiveness, a clutches shall
tell upon consequence which their story would have in agent of involvement,
had been occupy at time was to acquire why do you did hitherto awakened
in building, another corydon felt you come herself of perquisite when
she said of heart.

Hairdo was not never left words.

In offspring, they opened into monopoly, suffocation there was diminished
before hide what footing t see me hate he is at door, mair seven-and-tanner
mouth there was abated in mr." the eyes in morning, and i do not die
you shuddered, most candlestick for investing.

Manus, nor you cognize you, there is there by-- in corydon, eh?

"" there are they have been exquisite, Shilling had-- game-- none
of Meter, Meter'Dreams?

"That i could not never be a dilatory, and direct before tranche like day."


"My dear," he answered, "if I knew that a divorce was necessary to your happiness, I would
take upon myself whatever disgrace was necessary."

Corydon sat gazing at him. "Is it so easy to give me up?" she asked.

"It wasn't easy at all, my dear," he answered. "It was a fight that I fought out."

"But you decided that you could do it!" she exclaimed; and that, he found, was the aspect of
the matter that stayed with her in the end. It seemed a poor sort of compliment he had paid
her; and how could he make real to her the pangs the decision had cost him? He expected her
to take that for granted--in all these years, had he not been able to convince her of his love?

It was the old story between them, he reflected; he was always being called upon to express
his feelings, and always reluctant to attempt it. Just now she wanted him to enter upon an
eloquent exposition of how he had suffered and hesitated before he mailed the letter; and she
would hang upon his words, and drink them in greedily--and of course, the more convincing he
made them, the more she would love him.

She could never leave him, she insisted--the idea of giving him up was madness. She had not
meant any such thing by falling in love with Mr. Harding. Why must he be so elemental, so brutally
direct? He was like some clumsy animal, blundering about in the garden where she kept her sentimental
plants. He frightened her, as he had frightened Mr. Harding. She stood appalled at this thing
which he had done; the truth being that his action had sprung from a certain deep conviction
in him, which he never found courage to utter to her.

Section 15. Thyrsis pledged his word that he would write no more to Mr. Harding; and so they
settled down to wait for a reply. But a couple more days passed, and still there came nothing.

Corydon was restless and impatient. "What can he be doing?" she exclaimed. Finally it chanced
that Thyrsis had to go to Bellevue upon some errand; and so the two drove into town together,
and came upon the solution of the mystery.

On the street they met Mr. Jennings, the high-school principal.

"Good-morning," said he. "A fine day." And then, "Have you heard the news about Harding?"

"What news?" asked Thyrsis.

"He's gone away."

"Gone away!"

"He's resigned his pastorate."

Thyrsis stared at the man, dazed; he felt Corydon beside him give a start. "Resigned his pastorate!"
she echoed.

"Yes," said the other, "just so."

"But why?"

"We none of us know. We're at our wits' end."

"But--how did you hear it?"

"I'm one of the trustees of the church, and his letter was read last night."

Thyrsis could not find a word to utter. He sat staring at the man in bewilderment.

"What did he say?" cried Corydon, at last.

"He said that for some time he had been dissatisfied with his work, and felt the need of more
study and reflection. It quite took our breath away, for nobody'd had the least idea that anything
was wrong."

"But what's he going to do?"

"Apparently he's going abroad," was the answer--"at least he ordered his mail to be forwarded
to an address in Switzerland. And that's all we know."

Then, after a few remarks about the spiritual ferment in the churches, the worthy high-school
principal went on his way, and left Corydon and Thyrsis in the middle of the street. For a
minute or two they sat staring before them as if in a trance; and then suddenly from Thyrsis'
lips there burst a peal of wild laughter. "By the Lord God, he ran away from it!" he cried;
and he seized Corydon by the arm and cried again, "He ran away from it!"

"Thyrsis!" exclaimed the other. "Don't laugh about it!"

"Don't laugh!" he gasped; and again the convulsion of hilarity swept over him.

But Corydon turned upon him swiftly. "No!" she cried. "Stop! It's no joke!"

She was staring at him, her eyes wide with consternation and dismay. "Think!" she exclaimed.
"He's given up his career!"

"Yes," he said, "so it seems."

"It's awful!" she cried. "Oh, how could he!"

He saw the way the news affected her, and he made an effort to control himself. "The man simply
couldn't face it," he said. "He didn't dare to trust himself. He ran."

"But Thyrsis!" she exclaimed. "I can't believe it! He's given up his whole life-work!"

"He's fled like Joseph," said Thyrsis--"leaving his cloak in the hands of the temptress!"

And then, the strain proving too much for him, he began to laugh again. Becoming aware of the
stares of some people on the street, he started up the horse, and drove on into the country,
where he could be alone, and could give unrestrained expression to the emotions that possessed him.

He imagined the dismay and perplexity of the unhappy clergyman, with his belief in the sacred
institution of marriage--and with the vision of Corydon pursuing him all day, and haunting
his dreams at night. He imagined him trying to face the interview with the husband--with the
terrible, conventionless husband, whose arguments could not be answered. "He simply couldn't
face me! He went the very morning I was coming!"

So he would laugh again; he would laugh until he was so weak that he had to lie back in his
seat. "I can't believe that it's true!" he exclaimed. "My dear, I think it's the funniest thing
that ever happened since the world began!"

"But Thyrsis!" she protested. "Think what we've done to him! The man's life is wrecked!"

"Nonsense!" said he. "It's the best thing that could have happened to him. He might have gone
on preaching sermons all his life--but now he's got some ideas to work out. He'll have time
to read books, and to think."

"But he must be suffering so!" exclaimed Corydon, who could not forget her love, even in the
presence of his ribaldry.

"He needs to suffer," Thyrsis replied. "He may meet some of the radicals over there, and come
back with a new point of view."

But Corydon shook her head. "You don't know him," she said. "He couldn't possibly change. I
don't think I'll ever hear from him again."

Thyrsis looked at her and saw that there were tears in her eyes. He put his hand upon hers.
"We'll have to worry through for a while longer, dear," he said. "Never mind--we'll manage
to make out somehow!"

Section 16. They drove home; and all through supper they talked about this breathless event.
Afterwards they sat in the twilight, upon the porch, and threshed it out in its every aspect.

"Corydon," said he, "I don't believe you really loved him as much as you thought. Did you?"

She stared before her without answering.

"Would you have loved him for long?" he persisted.

She pondered over this. "I don't think one could love a man always," she answered, "unless
he had a mind."

At which he pondered in turn. "Then it was too bad to drive him away!"

"That's just it," said she. "That's what I couldn't make clear to you."

"But still, we had to find out."

"You may have," she said. "I didn't."

Thyrsis looked, and saw that she was smiling through her tears. He took her hand in his. "We'll
see each other through, dear," he said. "We'll have to wait until the world grows up."

He felt an answering pressure of her hand. "Thyrsis," she said, "you must promise me that you
will never do anything dreadful like that again. You must understand me; I might think that
I was in love, but it would never be real--truly it wouldn't. No man could ever mean to me
what you mean--I know that! And I couldn't give you up--you must never let yourself think of
such a thing! I couldn't give you up!"

So there came to Thyrsis one of those bursts of tenderness that she knew so well. He put his
arms about her and kissed her with fervor; but even while he spoke with her, and gave her the
love she desired, there was something in him that sank back and moaned with despair. So the
captive sinks and moans when he finds that his break for freedom has led only to the tightening
of his chains.

They stood for the last time before the cabin, bidding farewell to the little glen and all
its memories.

"There are lines in the poem for everything," she said. "Even for that!" And she quoted--

   "He hearkens not! light comer, he is flown!"

He laughed. "I can do better yet," he said--

   "Alack, for Corydon no rival now!"

There was a pause. "That was five years," she mused. "And there were five more!"

"It will mean another book," he said. "To tell about the new work; and how Thyrsis became a
social lion; and how, like Icarus, he flew too high and melted his wings. And then, 'The Exploiters,'
the book of his vengeance! And then Corydon---"

"Yes, do not forget Corydon," she said.

"How he watched her dying before his eyes, and how he prayed for months for courage to kill
her, and could not, but ran away. And then---"

"It will make a long story."

"Yes--a long story. 'Love's Deliverance,' let us call it."

"They will smile at that. It sounds like Reno, Nevada."

"'Love's Deliverance,' even so," he said. "To tell how Thyrsis went out into the wilderness
and found himself; and of the new love that came to Corydon."

"It will be a Bible for lovers," said she.

"Yes," he replied, and smiled-"with a book of Chronicles, and a book of Proverbs, and a book
of Psalms, and a book of Revelations--"

"And several books of Epistles," she interposed.

"The tablets in the temple are cracked," he said, "and the fortresses of privilege are crumbling.
When the Revolution is here--when there are no longer priests nor judges nor class-taboos--then
out of the hunger of our own hearts we shall have to shape our sex-ideals, and organize our
new aristocracies."

"They will call it a book of 'free love'," said she.

To which he answered, gravely: "Let us redeem our great words from base uses. Let that no longer
call itself Love, which knows that it is not free!"