 Her
work is in school, in families, ne before the communication ͤ. What betrift the school so wu
rde ͤ I give the advice in the early school years, children do not have to write to Read to
stop, just to talk. It stands to why. The elder mu ͤ ßten ha ͤ more often with speech and Denku
ͤ environments Bescha ͤ be ftigt - what an opportunity both to the intellect and to contribute
through this to the Low German language in which the boy from home from all the fru ͤ are
here eingepropft prejudices and stupidities. Ru ͤ considerate of special merit the girl ͤ Ma.
Your vegetables are soft ͤ ether, receiver ͤ an elongated, her body, weighted ͤ also similar
to their To form more easily understood and - once they are Mu ͤ tter, housewives, that is,
the Country ͤ fu r ju ͤ the longest race in the house are all in all. Even in a home ͤ lterlichen
remains much work to, especially housewives and a ͤ To ͤ older daughters, and the cheerful, informal
Shareholders is the best, he brings now an entertaining book (short and edifying Stories, no rambling
boring), now an interesting subject for Erza ͤ cooling with an anecdote from history, or meinentwegen
a case from the neighborhood, the village with which, he assured, is not in the Low German pace.
Fu ͤ r the whole Komu ne ͤ it is effectively insert ͤ Channel periodic Bla ͤ leaves, newspapers,
on community to keep costs and regular ͤ regularly, in meeting the Ma ͤ men read, possibly by a
ͤ older, Confirmation of going against boys as jealous and honorable reward their progress in reading
and speaking of standard German.

I'm suggesting only, but I seem to myself, I wu ͤ SSTE also lead auszufu ͤ as a school teacher
the country, and thousands more than I do.

This much is certain, I wa re ͤ school teacher, so I rde fu wu ͤ ͤ know r the first place only one
goal: to my Village verhochdeutschen to.

Nowhere fast wu rde ͤ I believe threshing, so long the sheaf of the High German language and
education me on the field, wa free ͤ grows.

A Bu ͤ rgerkrone ͤ wu rde to believe I deserve when I was at the age
retrofitted ͤ celebrities of: he has this spot, his village, the otherwise
dark, dull, flat German nest, with the Chain of civilization set in
contact by the extermination of Low German and insert ͤ Channel the
language of education in Germany.

Footnotes:

[1] However, with the exception of certain o ͤ locational
and provincial variations, as in Hamburg, Westphalen, Ditmarsch, where
even the educated in the debate here really Speech is not include
any of the local inks. Tall elms stood guard
along the water's edge, and here and there the hardwood forest was broken by dark hemlock groves,
and groups of lordly pine-trees, lifting their great green heads high above their deciduous
neighbors. Only in one place, around the extreme eastern end, the ground was flat and wet;
and there the tamarack swamp showed golden yellow in October, and light, delicate green in
late spring. Wild morning-glories grew on the grassy point that put out from the northern shore,
and in the bays the white water-lilies were blossoming. Nearly two miles long and three-quarters
of a mile wide, it lay basking and shimmering in the sunshine, a big, broad, beautiful sheet
of water set down in the very heart of the woods.

There were no settlers anywhere near, nor even any Indians, yet there was no lack of inhabitants. From
the open windows of the refectory, which was built in the thick wall at the scholl and delayed
dinner table - the disaster on the Brenta was in town all the time and Hours disturbed - the
Tischgespraech the quarrelsome brothers Sun and screaming, so full of '-inibus' and '-atibus' -
have been conducted in Latin - or in case you are arguing with quotations from the Edicts that
the monk easily guessed, also will the same or a similar dilemma as negotiated on the road. And if
he was perhaps not account, of which, But he knew, who went from the talk. But what he is not
discovered, were - "

Halfway through a sentence sought Dante in the audience to make the
cleric who is behind his neighbors hid.

"- Were two burning, hollow eyes, which through a hatch in the wall of him and the woman stared at his
side. Those eyes belonged to a wretched creature, a lost Moench, called Serapion, who himself, soul
and body, consumed in the monastery. With his premature Imagination had understood this at once
that his brother Astorre the longest starved by the Rule of St. Francis and had fasted and envied
him violently for it by the mood of death thrown to possession of worldly goods and pleasures.
He lay in wait on the returning to the mines to investigate the same
and to read it, what Astorre about themselves would have decided.

His eyes devoured the woman and stuck to their footsteps. "

Astorre drew the steps and his sister to a small town of four castles formed space, and entered
with her deep into the gate of the principal. On a stone bench in the Court he saw two dormant,
from head to toe an armored, very young Germans and an aged Saracens. The German had stretched
out his slumbering reddish Kraus head in the lap of the seated down infidels, who, also asleep,
with his snow-white beard, nodded down a father to him. The two belonged to the bodyguard Ezzelin,
which are in imitation of those of his law, the Emperor Frederick, in Germans and Saracens
composed in equal parts. The tyrant was in the palace. He might have considered it his duty to visit
the old Vicedomini. In fact, heard Astorre and Diana to have the conversation of the spiral staircase,
which Ezzelin in short, quiet Words, the old man, however, seemed to be entirely out of itself, with
screaming and scolding Santander Voice results. Moench and wife remained at the entrance of the hall
under the bleached servants are. The servants were trembling in every limb. The old man she had
the most violent imprecations showered and then chased with clenched fists, as she belated message
of Beach and brought hervorzustottern same hardly dared. Besides, this had servants the dreaded
step of the tyrant petrified. It was forbidden under pain of death to report it. Unaufgehalten like
a ghost, he entered houses and apartments.

'And that you report so calm, cruel' was raging, the old man in his despair, 'as told you the
loss of a horse or a crop? You killed my fours, none other than you! What you needed just
at that hour on the beach to ride? What You need was hinauszugruessen
the Brenta? You did me any harm done!

Do you hear that? "

'Fate,' said Ezzelin.

'Fate? " shouted the Vicedomini. The fate and star-gazing and incantations and conspiracies and
beheadings, from the pinnacle to the pavement is throwing women and hundreds of arrow-pierced
Youth of Ross dropped in your trying, daring battles, this is your
time and government, Ezzelin, you cursed and damned!

You draw us all in your bloody Tracks, all life and death is violent and unnatural next to you,
and no one ends more than repentant Christian in his bed! "

'You do me wrong,' replied the other. While I have nothing to do with the church. She leaves me indifferent.
But you and your like I've never stopped, with her to operate. You know that, otherwise you
would not you presume, with the Holy See Letters go to. What you turn there in your hands and hide
my papal seal? A drain? A breve? Give it to me! Truly, a breve! May I read it? You allow? Your patron,
the Holy Father writes you that, would expire on your trunk to your Fourth and last, the monk,
this ipso facto his vow was single when he made free Will and his
own initiative in the world are returning.

Cunning Fox, how many ounces of gold has cost you this parchment? "

'Do you mock me? " cried the old man. What else I could do after the death of my second and third
parties? For whom I would have collected and stored? For the worms? For you? Will you rob
me? ... No? Help me, Gevatter' - had yet ungebannte Ezzelin the third boy from the Vice Dominis
baptism lifted them, which for him on the Battlefield sacrifice - 'help me overcome the monks
that he would return secular and take a wife, command it to you Noble,
give it to me instead of the son, whom thou have been slaughtered,
I think the thumb, if you love me!

"

'This is not my business,' said the tyrant, without the slightest excitement. He makes with
itself off. Voluntary, says the brief. Why should he, when he was
a good monk is, I believe, change his status?

That the blood of Vicedomini not run dry? Is this a condition of life in the world? If the Vicedomini
a necessity? "

Now, the other in fury screamed: 'You wicked, thou murderer of my children! I look through up!
You want to inherit and lead me to my money at your Feldzuege insane! " Since he saw his daughter,
who represented before the hesitant Moench and the servants had stepped
over the threshold.

Despite his body of weakness he crashed her with tottering Strides,
seized and tore their hands, as he wanted them to account they both
came over for the disaster.

'Where did you get my son, Diana?

" he gasped.

'It is in the Brenta, "she said sadly, and darkened her blue eyes.

'Where's my three grandchildren? "

'In the Brenta' she repeated.

'And you bring me up as a gift? I keep up? " The old man laughed discordantly.

'Did the Almighty, "she said slowly,' moves me the waves, and the
others stood here instead of me!

"

She was silent. Then she fell into a sudden rage. 'Offended up my vision and I am you think ueberlaestig,
so up to this: he has me, as I was already dead, the Hair pulled back and pulled to life! "

Now only the old man saw the monk, his son, and his spirit gathered with a Power and speed, which
seemed to have steeled the heavy grief rather than paralyzed.

'Really? This has brought up from the Brenta? Hm! Strange! The ways of God are How wonderful!
"

He seized the monk in the arm and shoulder, as if to take possession of the same body and soul; and
dragged him and against his invalid chair on which he fell, without the compressed release
of the arm is not resisting. Diana came and knelt on the other side the chair down with its arms folded
and hands, the main legend on the back, so that only the knot of her blonde hair like an inanimate object
remained visible. The Group compared to sitting Ezzelin, the rights to the rolled brief as a
field marshal's baton supported.

'Son, sonny,' whimpered the old man with a mixed list of truth and tenderness, 'My last and only
consolation! You will stick and plug my age I do not distinguish between these trembling hands
break! ... You understand, 'he drove in a dryer already, businesslike tone continues, 'that,
as things stand once, not your staying longer in the monastery can be. For it is canonical, not you,
son, that a monk, whose impoverished father or versiecht, on leave
from his prior, in order to cultivate the heritage and the author
of his to nourish days.

But I need you even more necessary. Your brothers and nephews are gone, and now you are the one
who carries the torch of life of our house!

You are a little flame I have the lighted, and I can not serve that
fade in a cell and smoke!

Eines' know - he was in the warm, brown eyes, a sincere sympathies to read, and the reverential
attitude of the monk seemed to promise a blind obedience - I 'm sicker than you think. Not true,
Issachar? " He turned for a backward narrow shape, which, softly, with bottles and spoons in
their hands, by a Nebentuer stepped behind the chair of the ancients
and now confirm with the pale head nodded.

I am gone, but I tell you, Astorre: Can you tell me my wish ungewaehrt so refuses your daddy to
climb into the boat of Totenfuehrers, and remains curled Daemmerstrand sit on! "

The monk stroked the feverish hands of the Old tenderly, but answered with certainty two words:
'My vow! "

Ezzelin unfolded the brief.

'Your vows? " flattered the old Vicedomini. Loose ropes! Honed by chains! Make a motion and they
fall. The Holy Church, which you owe respect and obedience are, it is invalid and void. As it
is written. " His wrinkled finger pointed to the parchment with the papal seal.

The monk closed to reverence the ruler received the written and read
by four eyes observed.

Dizzy, he took a step backwards, as he stood on a tower height and saw the railing suddenly
soft.

Ezzelin attacked the wavering with the brief questionnaire under the arms: 'Who Is Your Oath
Moench, where? You? or the church? "

'Of course, both! " cried the old man angrily. "The subtleties are cursed! Take up there in front
of the eight, son!

He will bring us Vicedomini to beggary! " Without Zorn put Ezzelin the rights to his beard
and swore: 'Dies Domini vice, so it inherits the Moench here, his
son, and creates - should go out and have sex with him when he me
and loved his native city has - a hospital of some size and magnificence,
to which the hundred Staedte' us - he said the cities of Italy - will'beneiden.

Well, Gossip, because I have cleaned the charge of rapacity, may I one of the Moench Some more
direct questions?

You do not mind? "

Now the old man grabbed such a rage that he fell into convulsions.

But still he left the Arm of the monk, whom he had picked up again, do not drive.

Issachar approaching the full, carefully with a fragrant essence filled spoon the pale lips. The
torture victim turned away his head with an effort.

'Let me in Peace! " he groaned, 'you're the doctor of the Vogts! " and closed his eyes.

The Jew turned his own, those who were shiny black and very wise, against the tyrant, with the
prayer for forgiveness for this suspicion. 'Will he go back to their senses? " asked Ezzelin.

'I
think,' said the Jew.

'He was still alive and will wake up again, but not for long, I'm
afraid.

This provides sun go down he did not. "

The tyrant seized the moment to speak with Astorre that to the impotent
Father was busy.

'Help me talk monk! " said Ezzelin and buried - his Lieblingsgebaerde - with the spread Fingers
of the right in the corrugated his beard. 'How much you have cost the three vows, you and some
ten years, I'll give you dreissig' - the monk nodded - have invoked?

Astorre opened his eyes and replied without hesitation Kaiserslautern,
'poverty and obedience, nothing What else I have no sense of ownership
and easy to obey.

" He stopped and blushed.

The tyrant was a pleasure in this male chastity. 'Is this you your here Stand up aufgenoetigt
or cajoled to that? " distracted him.

'No', said the monk.

Since long ago, told how the family tree is in our house of three or four of the last spiritual,
be it so that we Vicedomini one for Bitter possess, or to protect the heritage and the power of
the house - no matter, the custom is old and venerable. I knew my fate, which was not against
me, right from young. I was no penalty imposed. "

'And the third? " Ezzelin got to - he said the third vow. Astorre understood him.

With a new, but this time faint blush, he replied: 'It is not easy for me become, but I could
it, like other monks, if they do well, and that was I do. From the Saint Anthony ', he added
that awesome.

"This meritorious saints, as you know, gentlemen, a few years at the Franciscan lived in Padua,
"says Dante.

"How can we not?" joked one in the audience. "We have the relic honored that swims in the local monastery
pond, I mean the pike, which formerly the preaching of the Holy attended, was converted, abdicated
the meat dish, in good standing was and now in old age as a strict vegetarian. .. "He swallowed
the end of vacillation, because Dante had against him frowned.

'And he advised you?

" asked Ezzelin. 'My stand to take simple, perfect and upright', reported the monk, as a punctual service,
such as a war service, which so also requires obedient muscles, and
privations which a brave warrior do not even should feel as such:
the earth in the sweat of my brow to dig to eat moderately, to moderately
fast, not young girls women to sit confession, in the face of God
to walk and to worship his mother not in heat, as required by the
breviary.

"

The tyrant smiled. Then he stretched out his rights against the monks, admonishing, or blessing,
and said, 'happier! You're a star!

Your results easily from your Today Yesterday and suddenly turns into your morning! You are
something and nothing less, because you may do the Office of mercy,
I shall leave that, though I occupy another.

Would you connect to the world that follows its own laws, to learn what it is too late for you
, so would your clear star to the ridiculous half-wit and huff after a burst some silly jumps under
the scorn of the gods!

One more thing, and this I speak as the man who I am: the Lord of Padua. Your change was my people
a construction, an example of renunciation.

The poorest comforted thee, he did share his meager food and his hard day's work. You throw
away the cowl, freest you, a nobleman, a Distinguished Creator, you hands full with the abundance
of your house, so you commit robbery in the nation that has taken
you as a peer in possession, you make me dissatisfied and discontent,
and it would lead to anger, disobedience, rebellion, I should not
wonder at it.

Things to concatenate!

Padua and I can not do without you! stab with your beautiful and chivalrous
figure you count in the eye and have more or at least a nobler courage
than your peasant Brothers.

If the people after his frenzied way that here '-'ermorden - he pointed to Issachar want because it
brings him help, what the Jews in the last plague - a little lacking - done would be, who defended
him, as you did, against the insane amount until I am there and stop
areas?

Issachar, help me convince the monk! " is Ezzelin turned against the doctor with a cruel Smile.
Even for your sake he must not entkutten!

"

'Lord,' whispered the latter, under your scepter is the irrational reaction, which you punished
as just as bloody, did recur, and my account, whose faith is the
duration the tribe as God's highest blessing praises, the maximum
Erlauchte' - so and no longer have the Venerable, he called the monk
- not remain unmarried '.

Ezzelin smiled at the fineness of the Jews. 'And where do your thoughts, monk? " he asked.

'They stand and persevere!

But I wanted to - God forgive the sin - the father awoke not that
I'm not tough on him to be!

If only he had already received the victuals! " He kissed the cheek
of the violently impotent, who came to their senses about it.

The revived gave a heavy sigh, raised his weary eyelids and hosted
the gray Gebuesch his hanging brows look a supplication to the monk.

'What about? " he asked. What have you imposed on me, dearest? Heaven or Hell? "

'Father', Astorre asked with a trembling voice, your time is up!

Your hour is come! Dismiss up of worldly things and concerns! Think of the soul! See, your
Priester' - he said that the parish church -'sind gathered next door and wait with the most holy
sacraments of death '.

It was so.

The door of the adjoining room was softly opened, shone from the same faint prelude in the daylight
barely visible candlelight, a choir Steamed and the soft training setters of a bell was heard.

Now
clinging to the old man, sinking his knees already felt the cold flood of Lethe, the monk, as
of old St. Peter on the Sea of ​​Galilee to the Saviour.

'You do it me ' he stammered.

'I could! Could I! " sighed the monk. 'All Saints, Father, think of the Eternity! Let the Underground!
Your hour has come! "

This reverberated refusal inflamed the last life of Vicedomini to blaze. 'Disobedient! Ungrateful!
" He was angry.

Astorre motioned to the priests.

'When the devil', the old man raced, let 'me alone with your Geknete and Gesalbe! I have nothing
to lose, I'm one of the damned, and dwell in it right in the heavenly
Dance, when my son deliberately offend me and spoil my life germ!

"

The monk was horrified, shocked by this horrible blasphemy in the deepest saw his father irrevocably
submit to the eternal misery fall prey.

So he said, and was firmly convinced, I would have been in his place. He threw himself before
dying in dark Despair to his knees and prayed under falling tears, 'Lord, I beseech you, have
mercy on you and me! "

'Let the fox go his way!', Whispered the tyrant. The monk did not hear it.

Again he gave the astonished priests, a sign, and begin the litany of death was.

As the old man crouched together like a defiant child, and shook his gray head.

'Let's pull the fraudulent his street! " warned Ezzelin louder. - 'Father, father! " sob the
monk, and his soul melted away in pity.

'Your Grace and Christian brother,' said a priest now in an unsteady voice, are you receiving
in the Constitution, Euern Creator and Savior? "

The old man said nothing.

'Stand firm in your faith in the Holy Trinity? Answer me, Lord! " asked the Clergy was the second time,
and pale as a sheet, because: 'was denied and blasphemed them!

" cried the dying man with a strong voice, reviled, and - '
'No more! " cried the monk, and was cracked. 'I am you will, sir!
Machet with me what you want! Except that your not you pours into
the flames! "

The old man sighed as after a serious effort. Then
he looked relieved, I would have almost said happily, around. He seized
the hand groping blonde Diana, moved which took from the knees uplifting
woman into the air, her hand, which did not refuse, opened the contorted
the monk and put the two together.

'Valid! before the most holy sacrament!
" he rejoiced and blessed the couple. The monk did not argue, and
Diana closed her eyes.

"Now quickly, reverend fathers?" insisted
the old woman, "it is urgent, I think, and I am in a Christian constitution.
"

The monk and his bride wanted to step behind the priest's flock.
'Stay' murmured the dying man, is "that you see my eyes comforted
together until they ! Break ' Astorre and Diana, only few minutes
retreating, had combined with Hands before the eyes of the dying old
man to remain obstinate.

This mumbled a brief confession, received
the last victuals, and gave up, while they he anointed the feet of
the priests and the already deaf ears of that great: 'Break on, Christian
soul! " called out. The deceased's face bore the clear expression
of triumphant List.

The tyrant had, while all around was on his knees,
sitting the ordinance and regarded with quiet attention, such as one
contemplates a foreign custom or as a Learned the victim depicted
on a sarcophagus of an ancient people visited. He approached to the
dead and closed his eyes.

Then he turned to Diana. 'My lady,' said
he, "I think we go home. Your parents, when informed by your life
will call for you. Also carries Her a garment of humiliation that
you not dressed. "

"Lord, I thank you and follow you," said Diana,
but left her hand in that of the monk To rest the view they had avoided
until now. Now she looked to her husband straight in the face and
spoke with a deep but melodious voice, while her cheeks with darker
Embers covered: 'My Lord and Master, we were not allowed to leave
the soul of the father die. So I was yours. Keep me better fidelity
than the monastery. Your brother has not loved me. Forgive me if I
speak: I speak the simple truth. You will me a good and have obedient
wife. But I have two properties, which would have to protect you.
I'm hot-tempered when one touches me right or honor, and is embarrassed
that I was nothing must promise not to hold it. As a child, I have
the hard or not suffered. I am of little wishes and ask for nothing
even beyond the ordinary, except where I was shown something once
and promised, as I need the performance, otherwise lose I faith and
hurt me harder than other women about the injustice. But how can I
say this to you, my lord and master, whom I barely know? Let me fall
silent. Farewell, my husband, and give me nine days to mourn your
brother. " Now it solved Slowly the hand of his, and disappeared with
the tyrant.

By then, the spiritual flock lifted off the body, aufzubahren
to him in the chapel and einzusegnen.

Astorre stood alone in his
forfeited Moenchsgewande, which is a filled with remorse Breast covered.
 Oh, but that was a glorious night! Dark as a pocket, no wind, thick
black clouds overhead, and the rain coming down in a steady, steady drizzles--just the kind
of a night that the beavers love, when the friendly darkness shuts their little city in from
all the rest of the world, and when they feel safe and secure. Then, how the long yellow teeth
gouge and tear at the tough wood, how the trees come tumbling down, and how the branches and
the little logs come hurrying in to augment the winter food-piles! Often of late the Beaver
had noticed an unpleasant odor along the shores, an odor that frightened him and made him very
uneasy, but to-night the rain had washed it all away, and the woods smelled as sweet and clean
as if God had just made them over new. And on this night, of all others, the Beaver put his
hand squarely into a steel trap.

He was in a shallow portion of the pond, and the chain was too short for him to reach water
deep enough to drown him; but now a new danger appeared, for there on the low, mossy bank was
an otter, glaring at him through the darkness. Beaver-meat makes a very acceptable meal for
an otter, and the Beaver knew it. And he knew, also, how utterly helpless he was, either to
fly or to resist, with that heavy trap on his arm, and its chain binding him to the stake.
His heart sank like lead, and he trembled from his nose to the end of his tail, and whimpered
and cried like a baby. But, strange to say, it was the trapper who saved him, though, of course,
it was done quite unintentionally. As the otter advanced to the attack there came a sudden
sharp click, and in another second he too was struggling for dear life. Two traps had been
set in the shallow water. The Beaver had found one, and the otter the other.

The full story of that night, with all its details of fear and suffering and pain, will never
be written; and probably it is as well that it should not be. But I can give you a few of the
facts, if you care to hear them. The Beaver soon found that he was out of the otter's reach,
and with his fears relieved on that point he set to work to free himself from the trap. 

"And is not the case?" whispered in the gloom.

"No," decided to Dante, and a heavenly transfiguration enlightened his stern features. "Ask, and
investigated our philosophy is not: how evil came into the world
would be the evil in the majority, so we asked: How good was in the
world "?

These proud and impressed by the dark phrases of society, but also aroused the concern the Florentines
would like to be in his scholastic instead delve into its history.

Cangrande saw his young friend relatives a pretty yawn.

Under such circumstances he took the floor and asked: "Tell us a
true story, my Dante, for the documents? or a forecast of the vernacular?
or an invention of your forehead crowned?

"

He answered slowly stressing: "I develop my story from a grave Scripture."

"From a grave Scripture?"

"From a grave writing, which I read years ago when the Franciscans
in Padua.

The Stone, which she wears, lay in a corner of the monastery garden, while at the wild Rosengestraeuch
hidden, but accessible to the novice when they crawled on all fours
and repent of a zerkritzte of thorns cheek not let him.

I ordered the Prior - will say, I asked him to put the stone in question
to the library and the to make an old man's hat.

"

"What said the stone?" let now the wife of the princes heard neglectful.

"The inscription," said Dante, "was in Latin and reads: Hic jacet
monachus cum Astorre uxor Antiope.

Sepeliebat Azzolinus. "

"What does that mean?" inquired the other curiously.

Cangrande fluently, translated: "Here sleeps the Moench Astorre beside his wife Antiope. Both buried
Ezzelin. "

"The despicable tyrant!" called the Sensitive. "Certainly he has the two buried alive leave because
they loved each other, and even mocked the victims in the vault, by making it the wife the
monk called. The cruel! "

"Hardly," said Dante. "This has created in my mind is different, and even after the History unlikely.
For Ezzelin threatened the church rather than obedience the breach
of sacred vows.

I take the 'sepeliebat' in kinder meaning: he was both a funeral. "

"Right" to Cangrande cried joyfully, "you think like me, Florence! Ezzelino was a domineering
nature and how they have been somewhat rough and violent.

Nine-tenths of his crimes have him Priests and the people fabelsuechtige been sealed. "" Would
like to be so, "sighed Dante."

Where by the way he appears in my fable, it is not the monster that we, true or wrong, the Chronicle
describes, but his cruelty is only beginning to draw only with a
train around the mouth, so to speak - "

"A commanding figure, completed the portrait Cangrande fiery," with an elaborate, black Frontal hair
as you paint it in your twelfth song as an inhabitant of hell. Where
do you have this black-haired head? "

"It is yours" bold, "said Dante,
and Cangrande felt flattered.

"The other character in the story,"
he continued with smiling threat, "will I, her, it allowed? "- and
he turned against the people sitting around - remove from your midst
and give them your name: your affairs I leave untouched, because I
can not read it. "

"My face I will give you," said the grand duchess,
whose indifference to began to give way.

A murmur of excitement ran
through the highest listener, and, "Your story, Dante!" whispered
it from all sides, "your story!"

"Here she is," said this and told.
"Where approaches the speed of the Brenta in a slim arc of the city
of Padua, but without to touch, slipped on a summer day in heavenly
steamed Floetenschall a garlanded, of festively dressed overcrowded
boat on the quick but quiet water.
At one side stood a large tree, so close that it could probably be used as a buttress for the
dam when the latter was sufficiently lengthened to reach it; while above the shallow the ground
was low and flat on both sides for some distance back from the banks, so that the pond would
have plenty of room to spread out. If they could have spoken they would probably have said
that the place was a dam site better than any other they had seen.

Alder bushes laid lengthwise of the current were the first materials used, and for a time the
water filtered through them with hardly a pause. Which means hold
ͤ fu r the extermination of the Low German language ͤ fu r the best? Me and my Colleagues, as
I said, is vorzu ͤ was like that.

I wore my friends out before the next section, but noticed that I
of him itself or by a comrade of his stand somewhat Erscho ͤ Pfender
hopes for in this respect.

       

* * * * *

But who is to help each in the Low German people?

How can the High German to help?

Who? All the world, not just the state. What the State against the Low German and High German
r fu ͤ could do, he has done by those banished from the Church and the Court excluded.

Any person engaged in this work, they or their ideas of who it attacks o ͤ publicly or defended,
new factors adding or who you ͤ gt, that it gives so many who are the already established modified
rektificirt, which helps, he likes it or not, for he helps one form o ͤ Public opinion. Illuminates
this mindless monster, Hanoverian Platt, Platt and Mecklenburg, as
it is called u ͤ everywhere, from the back or front, the best or the
worst side illuminated by it only, and believe me, every light ͤ u
bt a chemical destruction ͤ tion to its volume from.

Discuss it, it only Discuss and be u ͤ convinced, sen each word for good or Bo ͤ is a magic spell
that his one foot of its territory narrowed.

This is the Scholars ͤ ne with good cause, and the o ͤ public opinion and the new time, and
if Once the three are on the move and seek not, they miss each other
not.

Yes, I have no doubt that ͤ o Public opinion is formed and they will resent, as I, with the
Low German and the rumble is over the co u ͤ ͤ heads go of our farmers and will - be contagious.

The
infection is the main force of public opinion and o ͤ the most wonderful thing about her.

The
main executors of the legislative power o ͤ public opinion but in
our Undoubtedly the case, school teachers, especially in the countryside.

At the level of the share the realization of the good will of this great, well ͤ useful, secretly
acting class Citi ͤ rgern, whose influence on the formation of the country people is significantly large
ͤ SSSR, when the Pastoral influence comes infinitely much.

Take this as it belongs to them and to be expected, the cause of civilization
with zeal penetrate to them from the necessity of a continuous Attak
on the Low German, they are, as is their custom, persevere in their
study ͤ ck, so I want to see what Vera ͤ this miraculous change ratios
as early as the end of ten years in a negotiat ͤ of to produce high
plate.

Their main task ͤ wa re, meaning to strive, the High German confidential
and cordial to make - a way of mmertheit only by the skill and Unbeku
ͤ the tongue passes.

And now you might have seen the beavers coming home to rest after a night's labor at felling
timber--swimming across the pond toward the island, with only the tops of their two little
heads showing above the water. In front of the lodge each tail-rudder gives a slap and a twist,
and they dive for the submarine door of one of the angles. In another second they are swimming
along the dark, narrow tunnel, making the water surge around them. Suddenly the roof of the
passage rises, and their heads pop up into the air. A yard or two farther, and they enter the
chamber of the lodge, with its level floor and its low, arched roof. And there in the darkness
they lie down on their grass beds and go to sleep. It is good to have a home of your own where
you may take your ease when the night's work is done. Hanover, as
a bridgehead of England, is not mentioned, nor the Danish Holstein. Thuringia "It's dependent on Prussia,
must be carried out but, as in a special memorandum is first and foremost, get together at
a club, the Prussian customs system as "foreshore and Revetment "is intended to serve. Darmstadt
"does not border on us," even his Oberhessen can only Be eligible if applicant Kurhessen simultaneously.
- After all this was the next significant Only goal of the accession of Kurhessen including Waldeck,
and even that was unattainable, because the Elector of Hesse was after he agree a short time
with a customs system tries, had the great neighboring state soon, the old animosity. While
in Berlin these views prevailed, apparently unhappy with the old idea of ​​the Main Line were
connected to an extension of the customs system was on the small enclaves beyond not foresee.

Only
by Motz of the spell of this northern German ideas were broken. In this and in eliminating
the deficit, the trade policy allowed for a grand scale is the first,
his lasting merit.

He first fell under the Prussian statesmen on the question: whether, in the strange confusion
of our particularism in the detour perhaps faster lead to the goal than the straight line?
whether it was not the neighbors who were not convincing, would rather avoid and embrace? The bold
player came with his pawn on the board forward and not let the matter proceed Springer. He took
the heart as soon as a favorable Hour came on Electoral Hesse and other immediate neighbors across
the southern states to shake hands. In a time when the German official world the everlasting
covenant between Austria and Prussia looked for an inviolable law, he went straight to the target
going on, the whole of Germany to the exclusion of Austria by the inseparable band of economic Interests
under the leadership of Prussia to unite for ever and therefore the exemption from the prepare
for domination of the House of Lorraine. Once this decision was clear was the Ice is broken. The
steep road was entered, the trade policy of Prussia quickly from success should lead to success.

Source: H. von Treitschke, German History, etc. III, 453 ff, 477 ff

------------------

                            54 Philipp von Ladenberg, born 15th August 1769, died 11th February
1847, since 1817 Director of the General control of public expenditure,
since 1823 Chief President of the NAO.

   
      
      55 See above p. 42 n. 1

   

   56 George Canning, born 11 April 1770, died on 8 August 1827,
      British statesman, champion of liberal trade policy and Opponents
      as represented by the Holy Alliance Legitimacy
      beliefs.

   
      57 Heinrich Theodor von Schön, born 20 January 1773, died 23rd July
      1856 to 1816 President of Upper West Prussia, from 1824 in 1842 First
      President of the entire province of Prussia, since 1840, while Minister
of State.

   
      
      58 Friedr. Aug. v. Stagemann, born 7th November 1763, died
      17th December 1840, the Ministry stone until December 1806 Council
Speaker, since 1809 Go.

   Council of State in the Ministry of Finance and staff Hardenberg,
      appointed in 1817 in the State Council.
      
      59 Karl Friedr.

   Heinrich von Kamptz, born 16 September 1769, d. 3rd November 1849,
      since 1824 director of the Ministry of Justice, of 1832-1838
      Minister of Justice, notorious and hated because of
      his zeal for detection of demagogic machinations.

   
      

   60 Ludwig Kühne Samuel, born 15th February 1786, died 3rd April 1864,
      1819 Labourers in Finance, since 1820 Go. Financial, or senior
      financial officer. The acquisition of Treasury refused Kuehne repeatedly.

61
      Franz Ludwig Graf von Hatzfeld, born 23rd November 1756, died 3rd
February 1827, was Prussian ambassador in Vienna since 1822.

   
      

   62 Heinrich Freiherr von Bülow, born 16 September 1792, died 6th February
      1846, was until 1827 in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs mainly
      active in trade matters, in 1827 he became the Prussian Ambassador
in London, 1842 Minister of Foreign Affairs.

63 were in the alley to Eschenheimer Frankfurt a. M., the Taxis Palais, which met the Federal
Assembly.

64 Karl Ferd. Friedrich von Nagler, born 1770, died 13th June 1846, the creative organizer of the Prussian
postal service, was of 1824-1835 Prussian ambassador at the Bundestag.

6. The tariff war and the first customs union.

a) The Stuttgart tariff conferences.

When the Darmstadt conferences were dying, gave the small Thuringian States Statement: if, in
Darmstadt, not unite, they argue that they vacate one already agreed to execute related contract
and "a self-contained trading state" to form - "a self-help, which represent the image of discord,
the German States would be made to bring to perfection. "And truly, the south gave a pitiful
Sight after the demolition of the Darmstadt negotiations. Each cabinet was defiant and out of
tune his own way. The gut municipal government tried once (February 1824), the to move the Upper
Rhine courts for adoption of uniform customs laws, because it failed,
was to their country an independent tariff policy, which, hated by
the people, almost 80 000 guilders earned annually.

The wise du Thil had seen this poor return, he wanted but to secure a contract for future tariff
negotiation agent. Württemberg also led in the same year, a new customs law one that stood near the Bavarian
town. The smuggling business in Frankfurt and Baden flourished as never before. Foolish retaliatory
measures heckled the traffic. Württemberg as negotiated with Switzerland on a commercial contract,
Baden immediately sent an agent to Zurich to monitor the progress of the transaction suspicious.
In Switzerland, there was the same misery Germanic fragmentation; konkordierende and not konkordierende
cantons were no end of strife, the negotiations moved little from the spot.

Only the Stuttgarter Hof was during this period of general incoherence
of dreams and the Triassic Zollverein plans not to.

The Württemberg Minister in Munich, Freiherr von Burg Schmitz-Groll, A busy liberal, like his
patron Wangenheim enthusiasm for the League of lesser powers, never stopped to ask the Bavarian
Cabinet to resume negotiations. A considerable Time he was not appreciated, and his friend could
not prevail against Lerchenfeld Rechenberg, who spoke bluntly, a joint customs border is disgraceful
for the lying backward States. There was also little inclination in the old Bavarian people more
for the Zollverein plans, public opinion lost confidence in the ever futile Negotiations.

After all, the Darmstadt deliberations, the situation had been clarified somewhat. Southern Germany
was divided into two groups. The two kingdoms on the one hand, the Rhine riparian states on the other
hand, the community had become aware of their interests. It is this separation of two groups then
led to new attempts at reconciliation. Baden concluded with Darmstadt (10 September 1824) a Treaty,
which granted its own products of the two countries some relief, and sent then take his Nebenius
for the same purpose to Württemberg. The Baden was represented in Stuttgart received very unfriendly
and put off for weeks because of Württemberg Negotiators at the wrong hour was always uncomfortable.
Offended and upset, he thought back home on, so he learned at last that Württemberg nevertheless
have a new secret negotiations I started with Bayern. The news of the Baden and Hessian treaty
had the Munich Court met with grave concern. They feared losing the leadership in the south
and was in trouble because of the Palatinate, which called for urgent disaffected province,
almost threatening an understanding with the Rhine riparian states which are far more important
for their trading interest than the old Bavarian country.

Furthermore, had the immortal Blittersdorff Article 19 and the trade thing just at the Bundestag
again brought up, and although this is only a Sign of helplessness was, but Bayern wanted to cut
any involvement of the Confederation. So it happened that Schmitz-Groll Petersburg applications
now in Munich a more favorable mood met. King Max Joseph (65) allowed that the Württemberg
privy to Duke Munich came. While in Stuttgart Nebenius with empty excuses consoled, to ward the Isar
negotiating a South German Zollverein.

Already on 4 October 1824 there was concluded a preliminary contract, for the month were the plenipotentiaries
of the two kingdoms in Stuttgart together to the final agreement determine. Taught by the aimless
Meinungswirrwar the Darmstadt conference attracted, Bavaria and Württemberg time ago, under first
to come to terms, only then the encourage small neighbors to join. A true thought, certainly, but
the secrecy the procedure violated the Upper Rhine yards.

In Karlsruhe in Darmstadt boasted one like: we can dispense with Bavaria, Bavaria, not ours,
as we his connection with the Rhine Palatinate dominate. The more bitter they felt the rapid approach
of the Munich court. To "the pretensions oppose the royal courts, "Berstett rushed to Frankfurt, discussed
there with Marshal. A moment later (November 19, 1824) were Berstett, Nebenius, du Thil and
Hoffmann a secret meeting in Heidelberg, who trusted the Baden Minister himself, in a Letters "an
antidote" against the Bavarian-Wuerttemberg machinations called.

This changes the protocol, the later also joined Marshal, was significant for the history of German
trade policy, for here was playing its highest particularism Trump card, he put on his final
and most difficult condition. The allied nations committed to proceed in a solid community
and especially to persevere in the desire that each State has its own customs administration
would lead, only under this condition is a customs union possible. Bathing, but suggested in Vienna
and Darmstadt to create a new central administration had now held the opposite claim has most
stubbornly. The two kingdoms had their mistrust of the customs administration often too lenient
Baden and in violation Pronounced form. The Karlsruhe court felt this was deeply disturbed
and - he feared the presence of customs officials threatened in his Bavarian Palatinate regions.
We want wrote on Berstett du Thil, absolutely no status in statu * * (66), no functioning foreign officials
in the area, and that said, nor any obligation of the customs authorities for the community, because otherwise
the Grand Ducal Director of Customs to the Minister ! Oppose As strongly Nebenius said: "The
question is simply this, whether the subjects of the individual states are in direct relation to
the Community should stand ", cherish you no confidence in the fair
administration of the allies, then is a customs union at all inconceivable.

It was just the attitude of the jealous particularism, here came out naked. But this particularism was
the breath of life of the German Federal Law. The Baden-intestinal urban proposal showed consistent
right from the very nature of states. A central administration for customs could only think on the
floor of a federal state, an empire.

Meanwhile, the two kingdoms found their design and the Upper Rhine Cabinets invited to negotiations
of that decided. Began in February, 1825, the Stuttgart Conferences - a pitiful repetition
of the Darmstadt negotiations, spoiled by house by resentment and mistrust. Nassau that brought
no bona fide intention, guessed the Prussian Diplomats immediately, which could be also, that the
representative, the hard-headed particularists X-ray (67) expect? The intestinal Municipal Government
began a long time doubtful whether a southern German state of their club would be useful. Wine
and cereals, for now almost only important export item of the little country, found their sales
in the north, and even if The association came into being, Darmstadt was still a frontier
land, surrounded everywhere by tolls. Kurhessen kept away the conferences. Also came from the
Baden Agents Nebenius listless hopeless mood is not out, and complicated the negotiations by
its Irritability. The Bavarian-Wuerttemberg Bavaria took the draft law on customs basis, granted
the two kingdoms, the vast number of votes and distributed the revenue according to the number
of the population. This was war, a sharp light of the re- raised the spirit of small farms. The
population should be calculated according to a new count or on the basis of the provisional
Bundesmatrikel? The register was used to measure for the military services of the Federal
States, but as they are compiled, there was in many small states,
a distressing depopulation, a surprisingly low head count.

Now, as the customs revenue should be distributed according to the strength of the population, protested
the young ambassadors with one voice: the matriculation no longer sufficient, the number of
Residents had been the delight of all well-meaning grown wonderfully fast!

The most important issue was still the question of the forms of administration. The royal Courts required
quite a common central government, they did not trust the officials the smaller States. Württemberg, the
finance minister seemed to separate management very reason inadmissible because it is very
low tariff revenues directly into its checkout would go, who vouched for the fact that the
allies of their surplus paid out on time? Such suspicions were excited by the ministers of
the Rhine States once again a meeting in Mainz (end of March 1825) and decided to firmly insist
on the Heidelberg protocol. Triumphantly told Marshall to Berstett how superior his Duke (68), the
Crown Prince have been made by England (69) during a visit in Bieberich. "Never had the proud
Nassauer called in holy wrath, I shall never me of you in my country laws be dictated. 300 000
my subjects are dear to me just the way you your three million. I do not need you "- whereupon
the Bayer completed the exchange of friendly and feelings with the assertion: "We need you not,"
As well, the Karlsruhe court's obedient parliament in motion, the brilliant constitutional lawyer
always particularistic Karl Salomon Zacharia (70) fought on the platform
against the usurpation of the royal courts: "Who is probably master
in his home when he shares with others the rule?"

Then gave Bayern and finally, after Württemberg.

But soon there arose a new dispute: to the tariff - a dispute that deep in the ground must lead
to the break contrast of opinions. Baden gave a highest duty for groceries 1 ½ guilders, and
felt this was a great concession, while Bayern coffee for 15 guilders demanded; woollens thought
Bayern to charge 60 guilders, gulden Baden granted only 8 as the highest rate for manufacturers.
Miller vainly implored the Karlsruhe Court of Immenstadt to sag, the prohibitive rule in the
wide world, could also Huskisson with its free-trade dreams do not penetrate. Berstett remained
firm, "said Bayern, he Marshall, requires that we not substitute all the benefits of our geographic
location, his share. The King of Württemberg Bavaria agrees with the claims to the kindness to obtain
a certain party. " Baden said in August 1825 and announced his resignation also a new customs law,
the low rates in the country, excited universal joy.

Nassau also resigned.

This time playing with political concerns, a journey of the king of Württemberg to Paris aroused
the concern of whether the federal government of the less powerful, perhaps with French help
should come to life. Nebenius later assured him was always the thought in Stuttgart on Germany's
future trade item intended it; high tariffs in the South had the Association must make it difficult
later to the north. And certainly, if, under the protection the Bavarian tariffs, a young industry
grew up in Upper Germany, was the developed earlier Prussian industriousness little hope of
the southern German market for themselves to conquer, and the Prussian state, therefore, lost the only
advantage that it is a general Zollverein, to compensate for heavy financial sacrifice promised. However,
it is recognized that even the witty host of Baden State was not free from that general black transparent
Detuning, which dominated the dismal Stuttgart conferences. By high protective tariffs was indeed
no question. The proposed tariffs on manufactures of Bavaria were significantly among the records
of the Prussian tariff, the danger which Nebenius feared was the least still in the distance.
Next winter, Bavaria has tried once again, the Association excluding Baden and Nassau to get
started. Baron von Rhein to negotiate in Stuttgart and Darmstadt. But said the Darmstadt government,
they could not join without Kurhessen. Since the Kassel court refused,
so this last attempt had failed.

So desperate was the situation when King Ludwig ascended the throne. Resentment and bitterness
everywhere. Even the modest trade agreement between Baden and Darmstadt
was after-year period back off because the authorities with the certificates
of origin neighborly abuse exaggerated. But the trout stream was used to that,
and it slipped along in the darkness, undismayed and not one whit disheartened; talking to
itself in low, murmuring tones, and dreaming of the time when spring would come back and all
the rivers would be full.

Mingled with its waters, and borne onward and downward by the ceaseless flow of its current,
went multitudes of the tiniest air-bubbles, most of them too small ever to be seen by a human
eye, yet large enough to be the very breath of life to thousands and thousands of creatures.
Some of them found their way to the gills of the brook trout, and some to the minnows, and
the herrings, and the suckers, and the star-gazers; some fed the little crustacea, and the
insect larvæ, and the other tiny water animals that make up the lower classes of society; and
some passed undetained down the river and out into Lake Superior. But there were others that
worked down into the gravel of the riverbed; and there, in the nooks and crannies between the
pebbles, they found a vast number of little balls of yellow-brown jelly, about as large as
small peas, which seemed to be in need of their kindly ministrations. And the air-bubbles touched
the trout eggs gently and lovingly, and in some mysterious and wonderful way their oxygen passed
in through the pores of the shells, and the embryos within were quickened and stirred to a
new vigor and a more rapid growth.

Not all of the eggs were alive. Some had been crushed between the stones; some were buried
in sediment, which had choked the pores and kept away the friendly oxygen until they smothered;
and some had never really lived at all. But one danger they had been spared, for there were
no saw-mills on the stream to send a flood of fungus-breeding sawdust down with the current.
And in spite of all the misfortunes and disasters to which trout eggs are liable, a goodly
number of them were doing quite as well as could be expected. I suppose one could hardly say
that they were being incubated, for, according to the dictionaries, to incubate is to sit upon,
and certainly there was no one sitting on them. Their mothers had not come near them since
the day they were laid. But the gravel hid them from the eyes of egg-eating fishes and musk-rats;
the water kept them cold, but not too cold; the fresh oxygen came and encouraged them if ever
they grew tired and dull, and so the good work went on.

Through each thin, leathery, semi-transparent shell you could have seen, if you had examined
it closely, a pair of bright, beady eyes, and a dark little thread of a backbone that was always
curled up like a horseshoe because there wasn't room for it to lie straight. But along the
outside of the curve of each spinal column a set of the tiniest and daintiest muscles was getting
ready for a long pull, and a strong pull, and a pull all together. January 1828, came about and
also the same voting rights, the Customs Administration of the self-ally recognized. A look at the daily
and annual figures is enough to disprove this story. The Fundamental Theorem Constitution of the Zollverein,
the parity and independence of the allies was, in the Meeting of 11 January between Prussia
and Darmstadt agreed, eight days before the Bavarian-Wuerttemberg Contract was concluded - in a moment when one of
Berlin the course of Munich Negotiations not yet known in detail. The latest run-in from Munich,
said message only: still remains doubtful whether the South German club joint or separate customs
administration should have, but the latter is more likely. The idea was just in the air, He was
found with the necessity of fruitless negotiations, the customs recent years, he adopted by
the North German and customs of the southern German allies at the same time, without that they
knew each other. Basically, the whole dispute is idle. The decision of the the future of German
trade policy depended, could be taken only in Berlin. Whether Bayern Württemberg and the other
allowed the parity was indifferent. But whether the North German Find great power the incredible
self-denial would, with a third-rate state is too modest to make a line - in the issue hung
everything. Once this decision Prussia conceived, was the pride of sovereignty small farms made
the last pretext and the web broken for Germany's trading unit. The conscientious collector notes
will never forget Remain that Bavaria and Württemberg the "founded the first" Zollverein in
Germany, their Negotiations quit a little earlier than Prussia and Darmstadt. For the historian
has the Fact little value. For the South German club proved to be a misguided attempt and
soon perished, and the Prussian-Hessian club proved itself and grew. For this, not from that,
the great German customs union is formed.

Eichhorn felt that things were finally in flux.

Full of happy confidence, he taught in March to the embassies in Germany, an in-depth instruction.
He describes it the course of Prussian trade policies, a system of conscious, calculated waiting,
the so well had borne fruit. He was then, as with the Darmstadt contract the crucial Turn had
occurred: the negotiations were especially so useful because "the Possibility of a common customs system
for states that are geographically independent, proved. In place of a dark feeling, which
formerly a union of a indeterminate direction sought, entered a clear understanding. "We see today
in the recording the state economic principles of another country not a denial of Sovereignty.
Nevertheless, diplomacy is still a quietly expectant attitude . Claim Equally confident Eichhorn wrote
to Motz: Our trade policy has proven and will still achieve greater success if we wait patiently
for the requests of other countries. The Bavarian-Wuerttemberg association is loose and will become
even more relaxed when they resist should expect find new allies.

In fact proved in Hesse as once in the enclaves quickly the blessing of the Prussian Laws.
For a moment the mood in the country was still divided.

The Stark Burger Land saw the usual small movement of the Frankfurt market harassed in many ways,
and in the Chamber complained to German Do individual Patriot Movement "over the" lion's contract
which Prussia cunning innocence of the Hessian imposed. The commercial classes in Mainz and Offenbach
however, expressed his gratitude to the Government, and soon stirred throughout the country
a new life. Not long ago we had planned in Berlin to establish a fair in Cologne, should keep
the Mainz and Frankfurt transport the counterweight: now emerged in Offenbach Meßverkehr a flourishing,
especially in the leather business to surpass the rich Frankfurt began. The two allies built a
great road from Paderborn to Biedenkopf Casting and further south, so that an almost duty-free street
the Neckar to the Baltic Sea combined. After two years, the commercial opposition in the chambers
had stopped almost completely. Graf Lehrbach who wanted to sue the Minister for treason was,
lonely, and the Schenk seconded but thanked the Government and closed comfortably: The only
cure for the desire for political unity is the Customs Union! Hofmann pointed with pride to the favorable
accounts and "said with full confidence in this mutual Benefits confederacy founded in hand
and time ahead you will hopefully soon the one implemented to see what a few years ago while
earnestly object of your desires was, but after so many fruitless negotiations was not to
lie in the realm of possibility seemed. "Even in Prussia were the complaints of the business world
that is loud enough at first raised, not long ago. Meanwhile the king had his entire Thuringian area
the Zollinie included: the location of the principalities Ernestine was almost unbearable. It seemed
inconceivable that Electoral Hesse and Thuringia, so embraced by all sides, their foolish Resistance
should continue.

Yet should the unthinkable happen. On the first rumor tried, however, some Small States to
approach the allies - only with the intention of the contents of the contract, was still a closely
guarded secret to learn.

President Kraft wrote in Meiningen Hofmann asked for clarification, indicated over weight that Meiningen
perhaps the Hessian Example would follow, if only the power of this kingdom to charge worthy: "The
situation Meiningen in the country can exceed its value to the geographical extent of it, by
Frequent several rural roads, the venues along the coast of the North Sea with a significant parts
of southern Germany, Switzerland and Italy combined, and Prussia, Bavaria and Hesse Electorate
to their neighbors are more important. "Meininger world trade routes offered undeniably on the
map a very handsome sight, they were built, however yet, even the little country had no means
the funds to build them anywhere. Motz, the the natural history of the small German state provided
an inexhaustible source of delight, sent back the Meininger letter to Hoffman and assurance that the
geographical significance the Duchy of him was quite new, and then he concluded ruefully: "It
is sad when such exaggerated Servants help to ensure that the sovereignty of their arrogance
princes also a road conceit . Is added, "The incident was the wise man remembered, and the conceit
Meininger Strasse should be the right time yet to play a role in German history. Only transparent
was a diplomatic feat of the free city of Frankfurt. The old Rothschild appeared at Otterstedt to
binding to ask if not Frankfurt with Prussia a similar can conclude the contract. Now all the
world knew that the trade policy of this Republic only consisted of a systematic care of the smuggling.
The probe was then the sole purpose of to inform the Senate about the conditions of the Prussian-Hessian
treaty, so that the Frankfurt smugglers were able to establish it. Of course, the diplomatic
Exchange prince with a few general phrases sent home.

In the German courts was only one who welcomed the Prussian-Hessian association with joy: The
Baden court. Just by Prussia, Grand Duke Ludwig assistance could hope to his palace to compete
with Bayern, so he wrote to Blittersdorff: "I am delighted to have an influence To see more, which
I, especially at the present moment, owe much. "

At the same time was hoped in Karlsruhe the intentions of the Baden trade policy is now in southern
Germany enforce, as converted from Darmstadt to Prussia, Baden was alone for Bayern indispensable
link between Franks and the Pfalz.

All other courts heard the first uncertain customer from Berlin with indescribable terror; The
message came as a bombshell in the diplomatic world. Even Blittersdorff, but the the opposing views
of his sovereign knew contained, not to whine about "This disaster,"
this new proof of Prussian selfishness: it is quite clear that Prussia
would exploit only the Hessian market for its brands, and I do not
own the duration the connection.

What is the hothead so herauspolterte was only the echo of the excited talk The Austrian Party at
the Bundestag. Muench (74) and Langenau (75) insured indignantly: Prussia was finally unmasked
boundless ambition. Until recently they had on the Prussian arrogance blamed that dismisses
any understanding with the neighbors. The loudest Marshal clamored about this "submission
agreement" which he had read as little as Others from the Austrian family. He met once institutions
favoring smuggling Bieberich and in the other ports on the Rhine. The idea that Nassau now as evidence
for the Prussian Enclave was to be had, its national pride, terrible. Then he let the faithful
Oberpostamtszeitung spread the lie that Prussia was also invited to join Nassau, had been rejected
but proud. The parliament approved the humble opinion of the Minister to when he said: an increase
in government revenue was unnecessary, for Nassau's European Policy as for its economy, the connection
to be Prussia only dangerous.

That Munch and Langenau not acted without secret instructions, had guessed easily. To Prince
Metternich said plenty of consternation in his sour sweet words. The Prussian Minister informed
the Austrian chancellor a memorandum which detailed of Prussia's former common commercial policy.
Then the prince said: "The Darmstadt Contract has caused a stir, as everything will be misinterpreted
in Germany. But we glad that so openly pronounce Prussia, with the
memorandum, I am essentially in agreement.

Bavaria has recently asked us to thwart the Prussian-Hessian contract. We rejected, since such
contracts are a consequence of sovereignty. I can not deny, however, that once quit like compounds,
considered merely from the administrative point of view to be a political tendency, and they
shall be based on the fundamental laws of the Federal oppose them. "He then recommended to the Prussian
court again, as once at the Aachen Congress, the advantages of the Imperial County tolls: if
one county duties introduced in Prussia, one would not require the burdensome custom contracts! Motz heard
with delight these oracles and wrote to Eichhorn: "From the financial views of the Prince von
Metternich, we will probably can make no use. In contrast, we do not want to deny that in many respects
for us without any disadvantage, if he persists in Austria with his enlightened views. " Eichhorn also
knew how eagerly the Imperial Minister in Darmstadt the ratification of the Treaty countered
had, in February was Otterstedt rushed over from Karlsruhe to the Austrian influence to keep the balance.

Also that German cabinet, which then stood at the Berlin court next, and Hanover, surprised
by the conspicuous rudeness. The king did not want the friendly neighboring country draw on the
new club concerned. He therefore ordered to make an exception to the rule that Prussia should refrain
from any trade offers, and left in Hanover some new roads and significant tariff reductions proposed
since, according to the principles the Hanoverian politics a real customs union but was not expected. But
this Openings remained unanswered.

That was more than upset, pointing to the hostile plans in the dark were preparing.

Public opinion was, as ever in the history of the Zollverein, or deluded as the cabinet, and the
Imperial Palace understood, despite their hatred of liberalism, the Liberal stupidity exploit excellent.
worked in Frankfurt, Munch's eyes a kk correspondence factory: with remarkable consistency Nürnbergische
told the correspondent, Elberfeld's newspaper, the Frankfurter Journal of unfortunate Darmstadt
industrialists who House and home, left to escape the Prussian customs duties. The Augsburger Allgemeine
Zeitung could be written from Darmstadt: we must now speak twenty-one
Prussian, before one even allowed to talk Hesse; the unfortunate country
with two-time charges, the new tolls and the old ones, since charged
for wine and tobacco Ausgleichungsabgaben.

Even independent Leaves, such as the Altona Mercury and the New Mainz newspaper, told the fable of
the fox, in the stable for the horses, said: does not tell me, I will not come up too!

The Prussian government was never in the literary arts of the Mine war with Austria measure, it contented
itself with the Austrian tendency lies doctrinal Corrections oppose the government newspaper,
the Journal unfortunate but suffered from the original sin all semi-official leaves of drought.
was general agreement on this land criticism not a step the government expected. Not only
among the industrialists were shaking Many of the impending increase in the competition. Also,
a school within the civil service, Nice with his East Prussian friends, switching to this stroller
in Berlin, the home not Would find peace and away useless Handel instigated.

The most dangerous among all the forces of resistance for the present one appeared hostile Attitude
of the Munich court. In October 1827 in Munich were the negotiations between the two southern royal
crowns were resumed. Schmitz-Groll Castle (76) and Armansperg (77) Both operated the business
with zeal. Thus came on 18 January 1828 that the first German Zollverein about. It fulfilled
what was foretold in Berlin so often collective and Administrative system of the new association
came to the principles of the Prussian customs legislation very close, because the southern German
crowns the same question arises, which already Prussia was dissolved by Act of 1818. Tariffs on
manufactured goods were lower than in Prussia, on groceries a bit
higher: rising from coffee Prussia six thalers.

20 Sgr. for Zentner, Bayern-Württemberg 15 guilders for the heavier by about 9 percent Bavarian
hundredweight. Moreover, almost the same rules as in the Prussian-Hessian Association: Separate
Customs under mutual control, distribution of income under the head count, border customs and packing
plants.

However, the sensible constitution could not cure the base damage of this covenant: he was too
small and therefore, as Eichhorn predicted not viable. Probably increase the customs revenue Württemberg
in the first year to 220 000 guilders, the smaller ally withdrew course the greater benefit
from the expansion of market area. But customs revenues amounted to only 9 ½ Sgr. the head
of the population, while the Prussians Zweiundeinhalbfache, 24 Sgr., occupied. The costs of customs
administration devoured at least 44 percent of the revenue; in Bavaria was the gross profit for
the financial year 1828-1829: 2.842 million guilders, net income
only 1.582 million guilders.

The low tariffs were not enough, the domestic industry effectively to protect, and yet was
any increase impossible, if not all of the net profit State funds should be lost. There was pitiful
at the Bavarian Palatinate. The remote Province should remain for the present outside of the toll
and customs lines release their own products introduce into the country club, what once French,
Baden, Rhine Prussia, Hesse Manufacturers to great smuggling prompted. Important voices in
the Palatinate, called according to the following Prussia, one of the first industrialists
of the province, housing advice Camuzzi wrote to that effect to the Allgemeine Zeitung, but was
dismissed by the company Cotta.

King Ludwig was the infirmity of the club not long notice. As he was proud of his Handiwork, the first
German Customs Union, as he reveled in dreams of sublime historical Immortality. He wanted to live
in the mouth later generations as the culmination of the fossa * Carolina *, conceived of that channel
between the North Sea and the Black Sea, the Charlemagne, had not yet executed, and also dealt
with major rail plans, since Franz Baader (78) run in the Nymphenburg Park was a steam car.
"Now the customs systems of the two great powers no longer appalling
"- it was called at court.

Already was a negotiator sent to Zurich to Switzerland to southern Germany to join the club or
at a Trade treaty to move. Never had Bavaria star shone brighter than in January 1828; never before
the king such a proud language had led to the Bundestag. "The antisocial tendencies antifederalist
the Bavarian policy occurred, "as Blittersdorff complained that, contrary to the presidential envoy
abruptly. Immediately after the signing of the southern Customs Treaty went to Baron von Rhine
to Darmstadt, to invite the Grand Duchy of accession and whether the parity, which had given
him the two kingdoms so far refused to unconditionally grant. Hesse was bred, it had to resist
haired bathing at the mercy of the result.

In the midst of these sweet dreams came shattering news of the Prussian-Hessian Contract. Through
this association, which jumped into the eyes, the South German club immediately lost Meaning and
significance. Louis saw his dearest hopes was destroyed, several weeks through completely stunned.
"Now have I done all the steps to my poor subjects to save, "he said despairingly to Schmitz-Groll castle.
In unloaded gross insults to his anger, he scolded loudly on the traitor Hofmann told to open
table, Prussia had Prince Emil von Hessen bribed from 400,000 guilders. In his anger he forgot
again his "Teutonic" pride.

As long as these small farms were allowed to drive European policy were also patriotic princes
not safe from evil aberrations. As a former Crown Prince Ludwig, Despite his revulsion against
Napoleon, more than once humble letters to the creators of the Bavarian Crown addressed and expressed
the hope even had his son Max will one day the King of Rome (79) devote his attachment, he had
recently been to Sponheim sake the help of Russia called and turned again to the hated France.
The winter had about the Duke of Dalberg (80) in Munich are being driven, and now found his
insinuations Hearing. King Ludwig warned the French court before the ambition of Prussia, which
is already in southern Germany fix the search. In the same vein edited Lerchenfeld to Frankfurt
the old Reinhard (81). Minister immediately ordered La Ferronays the charge d'affaires in Munich energetic
vigilance the imminent danger of Prussia ago, he set at the same time some trade facilitation measures
in view in favor of the * *. Allemagne troisième (82)

As King Louis returned after a few months of his passionate aberrations these were ugly intrigues
with foreigners after all denied. The History is nevertheless guaranteed by the matching products from
friend and foe. Not only the Prussian ambassador to his court clerk reported on in detail, the Baden envoy
Fahnenbergplatz reported exactly the same thing to Karlsruhe. The Austrian Minister Count Spiegel accused
the Bavarian Minister of Foreign Affairs, the indictment in the face that he France pull it into
the German trade policy search.
 Now
he was gathering all his strength for the great leap to the top of the water-fall. And now,
perhaps, he rested for a little while in a quiet pool, and presently went hurrying on again,
diving under logs and fallen trees, swinging round the curves, darting up the still places
where the water lay a-dreaming, and wriggling over shallow bars where it was not half deep
enough to cover him; until at last he reached the old familiar place where so many generations
of brook trout had first seen the light of day and felt the cold touch of the snow-water.

As before, he and the other males arrived at the nesting grounds some days in advance of their
mates, and spent the intervening time in scooping hollows in the gravel and quarrelling among
themselves. Two or three times he was driven from a choice location by someone who was bigger
than he, but he always managed in some way to regain it, or else stole another from a smaller
fish; and when the ladies finally appeared he had a fine large nest in a pleasant situation
a little apart from those of his rivals. But for some reason the first candidates who came
to look at it declined to stay. Perhaps they were not quite ready to settle down, or perhaps
they were merely disposed to insist on the feminine privilege of changing their minds. But
finally there came one who seemed to be quite satisfied, and with whom the Trout himself had
every reason to be pleased. In addition, in the old provinces have 67 different Tariffs, comprising
nearly 3,000 classes of goods, and provision in the Electorate of Saxony Duchy Generalakzise Saxony,
the Swedish customs in Neuvorpommern, in the Rhineland since last lifting the Napoleonic Douane
an absolutely anarchic state. And this intolerable Annoyance of traffic granted but, as an orderly
border guard was missing, no Protection against foreign countries. Even in the chaotic monetary
system showed the dependence of the impoverished state of the stranger: in Poznan and Pomerania
had 48 in the provinces of the left the same 71 other kinds of money to be officially certified
and tariffed. Long ago noticed the king with concern how difficult the legal sense of the people
by the continuance of the survived prohibitive system was damaged. Since the civil sector on
the boards Country settled down, took a tremendous upsurge of smuggling. In 1815, taxed any
material store of the old provinces, only two pounds of coffee a day.

Also, the unacceptable conditions on the eastern border urged to act quickly. Once Prussia
Poland and Russia in March 1816 in Warsaw due to the implementation of the Vienna Agreement
dated 3 May 1815 began negotiating turned out soon that Hardenberg in Vienna by Prince Czartoryski
had been outwitted. The seemingly innocuous provisions of the Treaty on freedom of transit and
the free circulation of the national products of all formerly Polish Landscapes stored on the
Prussian state almost only duties, as his territory the transit country formed. In order to satisfy
the agreement literally had his Polish provinces of Prussia the state's other regions to be
separated by a Zollinie, while Russia, the treaty contrary to its old customs border, the Polish
Lithuania farewell to Warsaw, unchanged and Austria was in no way inclined, showed his Polish
crown land trade To grant independence. The Polish negotiators saw in the treaty is a welcome Means whereby
the settlement of commercial agents and their commission agents national propaganda proffered to
Prussia's Polish territories. She dares to the crown of Prussia almost to challenge the unlimited
sovereignty over Danzig, and made so haughty demands, that the king, with a decided refusal, when
Czar Alexander was his custom tried to support the claims of Poland by an affectionate letter friends.
The unpleasant course of these negotiations, forced to the conclusion that the Polish countryside the
other provinces of the East completely equal footing. taught on the other hand, the Frankfurt
experience that a federal customs law was impossible and therefore initially Prussia in-house was
in order.

In 1816 made the first preparatory steps.

The ban on the export of money was repealed, introduced the salt shelf evenly in all the provinces,
then the said Regulation of 11 June, lifting the water, from a single principle and provincial
duties, and promised the introduction of a general and simple border customs. At the beginning of
the following year was the design for the new customs law ended. But as soon as the Reformation
of the intentions Some of the draft became known, was heard the cry of the frightened producers
widely across the country. Passionate inputs of cotton and cotton goods from Silesia and Berlin,
but all suffered greatly under the existing disorder, confirmed the old truth that the selfishness
of man's worst enemy of their own interest is. The noise became so threatening that the king
thought it necessary, first of a Special Commission to carry out the examination of these ideas.
Here won the old Frederick School once the upper hand. The Chairman, Chief President von Heydebreck,
looked as the supreme task of the trade policy "the numeraire," to preserve the land, the
majority decided that the crown to restore the ban system as it existed until 1806, advised.
But at the same time this report was a strongly worded minority report one, written by State Kunth,
the educator of the brothers Humboldt, a self-conscious Representatives of the old Prussian officials
pride, the good law of the bureaucracy are often faced the aristocratic disdain of his friend
defended stone.
 They were a well-matched pair, more evenly mated, probably, than is usual in fish
marriages.

But they were not to be allowed to set up housekeeping together without fighting for the privilege.
Hardly had she finished inspecting the nest, and made up her mind that it would answer, and
that he was, on the whole, quite eligible as a husband, when a third trout appeared and attempted
to do as the big bully had done the year before. This time, however, our young friend's blood
was up, and, though the enemy was considerably larger than he, he was ready to strike for his
altars and his fires. He made a quick rush, like a torpedo-boat attacking a man-of-war, and
hit the intruder amidships, ramming him with all his might. Then the enemy made as sudden a
turn, and gave our Trout a poke in the ribs, and for a few minutes they dodged back and forth,
and round and round, and over and under each other, each getting in a punch whenever he had
a chance. So far it seemed only a trial of strength and speed and dexterity, and if our Trout
was not quite as large and powerful as the other, yet he proved himself the quicker and the
more agile and lively. Lasted almost a year Negotiations
between the two houses because of the Hessian facilitate some enclaves; because the elector said:
mutual obligation, the transit duties on certain streets not to increase, should alone Darmstadt,
do not apply to Kurhessen! His instructions to the negotiators took Maltzan "awarded by naive
ignorance and despotic tone written by a Rabener (99) "worthy.

Increasingly sharp contrast to the deep intuitions of trade was within the club forth. The merchants
of Bremen, Frankfurt and demanded unrestricted free trade, Hannover the preference of English
goods. Other states were dreaming of new tariff lines, again others hoped, the alleviation
of the Prussian customs system and then entry into this system to force. Not a single head of
all these small farms, the one clear thought with Stamina pursued; Karl August of Weimar, died
in June 1828th Soon separated themselves the coastal country and the landlocked countries
in two groups. Thuringia and Saxony signed a Separate contract, as are Hannover and Oldenburg.
They promised each other's subjects in commercial transactions to be treated on an equal footing,
etc. - minor facilities provided for in Prussia was not necessary because the more free Prussian
Customs Law, between residents and nonresidents did not differ. The simple fixed long ago in Berlin
realization that only the elimination could help up the internal tolls German trade, these cabinets
had not yet risen. The thoughtless inertia of the Austrian statesmen felt satisfied with the Successes
of the moment. The Prussian customs system was put to an end, some of Years might hold, a
positive construction of the trade association is not wanted in Vienna, as each Federation
in alliance seemed dangerous. Complacent Münch-Bellinghausen said Blittersdorff: "Austria has
acted as prudent to avoid the collision, which not miss Prussia ! Is "The far-sighted but Baden wrote:
I was surprised by such delusions. As if an impasse in international life is possible! As if the
Prussian-Hessian association, never again would dissolve! Austria alone to blame all this
disaster has nothing done to run the article 19 of the Federal Act and are therefore delivered
into the hands of the Prussians.

d) Prussia's victory. Bavarian-Prussian trade contract.

Now Prussia took up the gauntlet. The Berlin court had the first negotiations of the East German states
with the usual quiet restraint watched. A Saxon-Thuringian Association was harmless, only
by Hanover access the club won a dangerous extent. Man wanted in Berlin did not believe that this
close friend of Cabinet, the Prussians just offered to those new roads and trade facilitation,
had an anti-Prussian League will follow. Then came the Hanover allies while Bernstorff even
a friendly response to his offer expected. Buy any doubts disappeared about the nature of the
association. Motz in his fiery bold manner immediately asked that one treat opponents as enemies,
and declared: "If this association come about, so Prussia in a position to hold completed its
customs system, and not in a position to these neutral club of his
intention in accordance with imposing conditions to be incorporated.

"

Although hitherto been run only scant news about the plans of the club, so guessed Minister of
Finance but at first glance that the destruction of the Prussian transit trade lies in the
intention of the allies. Therefore, he continued, the Transit must now more than previously held
in the country, the road vigorously promoted, especially the Chaussierung the main street of
Magdeburg be completed quickly to Zeitz. Directed to Hannover Overtures are to be regarded as
not existing. Yet he speaks in a decidedly Write to Bernstorff, "It is certainly a remarkable
sign of the times that in the middle and preferably in the north of Germany, in the bosom of the
German and yet under the Flag of Austria, for the east end sibeln an alleged improvement of the situation
this federal coalition is formed, which Prussia exclude from their plans and deliberations and to recognize
in every way is not only that they generally an embodiment and extension Federal maxims without
Prussia's participation has to be possible, but that just Prussia to be regarded as a disturbing
principle of that execution and elevation, and therefore the establishment a formal mass opposition
against it was anrätlich. " That is why we must the association not ignore, we must express
our surprise and just decision, "any us in any way compromising the further development of this
singular system to counter appropriately.

"

Austria's intentions over the determined man was long in the clear. He knew that the Royal k.
Board officials in Mainz, in order to damage the Prussian-Hessian club, the contractual Tax exemption
of the Austrian garrison grossly abused, tobacco, sugar, beer masses of spending tax-free notes, more
than could all eat Rheinhessen. He claimed the Minister in Vienna was to explain some out: let
us not be fooled by the illusion, which is driven with the article 19, we can impress us, nor
us abuse. On 8 November he wrote to the Minister for Foreign Affairs outright: "Whether and
to what extent at all is expected to maintain friendly relations of Austria against us, I can to be assessed.
So much seems to me to be sure that the hastily organized Austria German Confederation resolve
the character of the former Federal German prince and then the Frederick thinks role to take over
the Great. "Austria's attitude towards us in the Köthener Customs dispute was decided hostile,
without assistance of Austria would be the Central German club never
come about.

A look at those documents is sufficient to solve the mystery of why the Berlin Cabinet about
the secret history of its trade policy persistently silent, even the windiest Boasting of the
many mental and biological fathers of the Zollverein bear left added. The alliance of the eastern
powers was still the leading idea of ​​foreign policy of the king. They broke with Austria,
the German Confederation was untenable and the expectant Zollverein itself into question. For Prussia
diplomacy resulted therefore the task of bring calm by the firm attitude of the Viennese court as
meaning that he was the Prussian commercial policy not downright repugnant. Prussia acknowledged the
Imperial Palace, the leaders point in the shadow of the Bundestag and asked for the management
of the real business of German statecraft. This remained the only viable way of national policy
as long as neither the will nor the Power was to renew the military action of Frederick days.
German to eliminate dualism came to the king not to mind, the intention was only to the Prussian States
in the German policy to conquer a territory separate, undisturbed activity. Such a system requires
careful care and inviolable secrecy, and it there was once the world learned how to work as
scheduled Prussia trade policy and how clearly the best minds of the Cabinet acknowledged the
principle of the interests of the two large federal powers separated.

The Foreign Ministry did not immediately on the belligerent attitude of the Minister of Finance. The
king called for calm, careful consideration and not prejudge German States unjustly. As soon as
more news arrived that voted Eichhorn believes Motz's in and issued an instruction to all
the ambassadors in Germany, which detail represented as unjustified and hopeless was the enterprise
of the Central German: the Ally like to submit the question of what a association of six million
inhabitants, almost entirely landlocked countries comprising probably win in a conflict with us,
"whether domestic commerce not killed instead revived and expanded trade with foreign countries
is not limited instead would be. " It also received the instruction, the Vienna embassy to complain
about the hostile attitude of the Austrian diplomat and the chancellor to Metternich Demagogues fear
calculated to put your heart into question: "Is it not primarily the secretions and separations
that take place in trade and transport, creating a feeling of discomfort, of discontent and
a yearning to be entertained for a change? "The Messenger in London was commanded to speak out,
that in negotiations with Hanover for the time being to not think was: "we must admit frankly
that our trust in Hanoverian Page was answered poorly. " Jordan in Dresden should be surprise about
the suspicious Secrecy of the policy-Saxon manifest; Grote in Hamburg to the Senate "the recognition
his wise and make appropriate conduct, explaining, we hope that he will also remain at the
same. "

At the same time was sent to the governments of the border districts of the command, the trade
policy measures of the allies, who still shrouded in mysterious darkness watching, hot. It showed
all the unnaturalness of the Central German club. The club was in the area ranges of Prussian
power, was interrupted by interspersed throughout Prussian field pieces, chained by a thousand
ties of neighboring traffic to Prussia. A band of Prussian Civil Service, raft inspectors, shipping
overseers lived in enemy territory was secure message about everything that went on the rivers
and streets of the allies. The State newspaper and Buchholz new monthly magazine started the spring
war against the trade association "A sovereignty, wants to make itself felt by mere opposition - Buchholz
said warning - is contrary with itself and can only learn defeats. "Even by the retaliatory
measures would Motz Opponents go to body, he thought to escape the Saxon manufacturers and the
Meßrabatt establish a fair in Magdeburg. Here, however, disagreed with the king, he wanted
his word required to refrain even now any hostility against German states, and let the combative
Finance Minister recall the considerations that you owe the German Confederation.

The plain language of the Prussian diplomacy, however, aroused fear and remorse at some the smallest
farms. The Prince of Sondershausen, the lower rule under the protection of Prussian customs system
flourished, was joined by his domination of the trade association and left by his Secret Konsilium
the Berlin Cabinet ask, "this measure extorted not "to indicate foul. Then said the Foreign Office:
they hoped "that a pp. Konsilium not a moment would be in doubt about what in the choice between
detention the previously existing relationship with Prussia, and between participation in a new connection
do or not do it. " Now the prince asked in a handwritten letter to the king's pardon and implored him
"to assess with a most gracious indulgence and the invaluable high grace not "to consider unworthy.
The Duke of Gotha wrote to Wittgenstein (16 December): He experienced "to his great astonishment,"
that Prussia did not agree with the trade associations was, he never came to mind, the Prussian court,
whose favor such an invaluable to hurt.

Against the larger states of the association was to align with such gentle means nothing. Motz
still retained rights, as he wrote to Bernstorff: "I believe that other considerations, which
are not provided by existing agreements against the relevant to us in financial terms only
hostile opposing states of well-placed out of sight can be settled by the Prussian state has the
power and strength to his high and highest to subordinate the interests of the states, and after
13 years of experience gained since probably win the love for us in the States only when they are
in fear and observance of existing conditions will remain united. "The fiery man was determined
to to blow up the trade association: rich against the manifest hostility of the expectant policy
no longer sufficient. be "We bring it remains to be seen, he said confidently that individual
members of the Central German Association are urgently asking for admission into the Prussian society!
" He had questioned in January whether to connect to the far remote Bavarian-Wuerttemberg
Association was advisable, and now he took away the happy idea of ​​the trade association to reach the southern
German royal crowns the hand and in this way by a collar of the North to destroy the South
Central special German Confederation.

For the salvation of Germany awakened at the same time similar requests in Munich and Stuttgart.
How loudly scolded and King Ludwig in the first anger against Prussia and Darmstadt's treachery
had, in the long run but he could not hide the fact that failed its own bold plans were. After Kurhessen
East Germans to the converted, was a magnification of South German club to not think; the
purely German Bund Unterwittelsbach flags remained a dream. Nor could the club remain in his
lonely position. Also occurred, as Metternich predicted, the old antipathy between the two kings
soon forth. The hope of a commercial union with Switzerland, was destroyed in the strife the Swiss.
So there was the South German kings only choice is either Prussia or to search with the Saxon-English
club to connect. Behind Saxony and Hanover but was Austria, which was sufficient alone to the
King of Württemberg against the East German Ally take. His new finance minister, Baron Karl
Varnbiiler (100), the same, who once stood in the front ranks of the Altrechtler, proven to be an
excellent Businessman and strongly advised to communicate with Prussia. What is significant
trade Advantage, besides the reduction of the transit dues, the East Germans had to offer?
As should the patriotic king of Bavaria engage in those dirty intrigues with France, England, Holland,
which operated the Central German club with unbeschämter forehead? In the first outburst of anger
King Ludwig was probably a step into France done, an alliance with foreign countries to enter
into the German transport the English commercial interests to subject, was the basic German for
all his oddness monarch as remote as his trusted minister Armansperg.

As soon as you put in cold blood in Munich, but even appeared in the conduct of Prussia Sponheim
trade explained.

The Berlin government was indeed committed by European treaties, Baden's right to protect,
they acted as King Ludwig himself had to admit, with unreserved Openness, and their envoy sought by
conciliatory language to appease the angry prince. Prussia proposed now, Bavaria and Baden should
be on both sides of her inheritance Sponheim To dispense so that the trade would be made miserable
for ever from the world. King Ludwig struggled a long time, but he began to realize that this
is the only way to deal with decency withdraw from the lost games. Against the late summer of 1828
began, the Minister and his royal friend already considered the question whether an approach
to the Prussian-Hessian Association was inevitable. That public opinion in Bavaria decided this
approach reluctant to friends was more of a sting than a barrier. Full of lofty enthusiasm, receptive to anything
extraordinary, both loved the world through unexpected decisions to surprise. The harder they
fell, the humiliation of their ambition, the shipwreck its purely German plans to get over. But they
were unable himself to make the sacrifice. Imperatively urged to dry business negotiations involved
the closer insight on that the Germans were still together, only by suspicion, by ignorance
and by the selfishness that is always the worst enemy of one's own advantage, the other enemies
were.

Quite unexpectedly, we found a helper who promote the onset of retuning the Munich court and for Germany's
big thing exploit understand.

The bookseller Freiherr von Cotta (101) was a great businessman with people and the German states
of North, more familiar as the Swabian-Bavarian civil service, and looked like he was already
in the Württemberg Constitutional struggle had proved in the trade thing about the popular southern
Prejudices far beyond. Enterprising and flexible, friends and other well-known with Nebenius
Economists in all parts of Germany, he realized long ago that the South German traffic without
Prussia neighborly assistance could never healthy, and although he was anxious, not to lose the favor
for his Metternich Allgemeine Zeitung, but he caught the brave decision to act as mediator. He
conferred secretly with Armansperg, then traveled to Berlin in September 1828 to the great naturalist
days, including for our policy should be significant. Cotta was at Humboldt Witzleben (102)
and Motz introduced the idea there expressed as to whether an agreement between Bavaria and
Prussia is possible, and found the best reception. A surprising relationship between the views
turned out. Motz confessed that he had long since worn with similar intentions; basically there
are after all just misunderstandings, which so far between the two countries stood. Cotta came home
and wrote on the 20th October from Munich that he had from the Minister "Gracious overtures" to the
monarch in Munich and Stuttgart communicated both are from the Necessity of the plan and had
already convinced the invitation, the Central German club join rejected. Now, Motz moved the
Foreign Office in the secret and said: "Now it is desirable to establish a commercial union
with Bavaria, Württemberg and Baden to form": the South must accept for their own account our
customs policies, including our higher Tariff duties on foreign goods, including goods in the middle
of the German Association. As long as This association prevents the full merger with the South,
have to Prussia-Hessen and Bayern-Württemberg at least its own products and brands exempt each
other from inches.

In November, the negotiators hurried back to Berlin, this time by a formal certification provided,
and was collected at the King of friendly. The Berlin told each with
humble amazement, the simple booksellers had been called to board.

Motz was him after long negotiations, the punctuation of the contract with the road. Triumphantly
Cotta reported on 17 December in Munich: "All I was brought here very enjoyable and "welcome to
King Ludwig as the Minister Armansperg. "Both are from the great Ideas taken to a connection
between Prussia and Bavaria and Württemberg to the high The same principles developed as a
beacon to guide action and serve. I can see implemented in the spirit of your wonderful ideas in
a short period. " And 20 December again: If Baden also won, "said the foundation stone in the south
of Germany would be placed on the building, Her dear king and you have the benefit and prosperity of
Germany in the eye. "

Motz said he hoped "to establish a task in which not only we and our contemporaries, but also
our children joy. "

The Central German club must open be fought, "because what we seek in common, a general market as
much as possible in Germany, is in Bavaria, Württemberg and Prussia by the principles of this
neutral Association promoted not only, but many obstacles related to this request only more
stable profiled. " At the same time he wrote to the Crown Prince of Prussia, who just stayed at
the Munich court, he revealed the secret of the mission Cotta asked urgently Support: the agreement
was politically and economically highly important, even though the Customs revenues would probably
suffer some losses initially. The Prince, the witty Minister probably already did, took as
well as the negotiations on eagerly.

On 9 Cotta in Stuttgart in January 1829 could report that King William
the main principles the Prussian punctuation had approved, and appeared
at the end of the month of tireless for the third time in Berlin.

The Prussian minister lost his patience at times almost all the anxious subject to reservations which
had to face the South German negotiator, and complained bitterly "about this" Hökerkram. Against
the complete exemption of its own products Bayern raised concerns, it was feared in Munich,
the Rhine superior industry.
 They found his footprints the next morning
in their snow-shoe tracks, and wondered how far behind them he had been. I don't know whether
it was a vein of real courage that nerved him up to doing such a foolhardy thing as to follow
a man with the intention of attacking him, or whether it was simply a case of recklessness.
The probability is, however, that he was hungrier than usual, and that the smell of the warm
blood made him forget everything else. Anyhow, he had a pretty close call, for the shanty-boy
had a revolver in his pocket.

Aside from any question of heroism, I am afraid that he was not really as wise and discriminating
as he looked. I have an idea that when Nature manufactured him she thought he did not need
as much wisdom or as many wits as some of the other people of the woods, inasmuch as he was
larger and stronger and better armed than most of them. Except possibly the bear, who was altogether
too easy-going to molest him, there was not one of the animals that could thrash him, and they
all knew it and let him alone. You can often manage very well without brains if only you have
the necessary teeth and muscle and claws; and the old lynx had them, without a doubt. But I
fear that Nature, in adapting a wild animal to his environment, now and then forgets to allow
for the human element in the problem. Brains are a good thing to have, after all. Even to a
lynx the time is pretty sure to come, sooner or later, when he needs them in his business.
Your fellow-citizens of the woods may treat you with all due respect, but the trapper won't,
and he'll get you if you don't watch out.

One day he found some more snow-shoe tracks, just like those that the shanty-boy had left,
and instead of running away, as he ought to have done, and as most of the animals would have
had sense enough to do, he followed them up to see where they led. He wasn't particularly hungry
that day, and there was absolutely no excuse for what he did. It certainly wasn't bravery that
inspired him, for he had not the least idea of attacking anyone. It was simply a case of foolish
curiosity. He followed the trail a long way, not walking directly in it, but keeping just a
little to one side, wallowing heavily as he went, for a foot and a half of light, fluffy snow
had fallen the day before, and the walking was very bad. Presently he caught sight of a little
piece of scarlet cloth fastened to a stick that stood upright in a drift. The
author of the law of 26 Mai went on the needs of the Prussian state budget, Nebenius commences with the
consideration of the suffering of the German traffic. Why is that those financial, the economic
aspect of the state at the top. So those who want a gradual Expansion of the Prussian customs under the
conditions that the interest of the Prussian Finance prescribes. Nebenius however, calls in line with
the average opinion of Time, a system of German federal duty, one from the Bundestag based
customs administration. He wants therefore the opposite of the policy that has created the real
customs union, and the first step on the way proposed by Nebenius had appeared on the abolition
of the Prussian Customs Act, leading, thus destroying the very foundation of the future customs union.
The trade Struggle of those years moving around the question: the Prussian customs law is to remain upright
or not? And in this conflict Nebenius stood on the side of erring. If you want a Memorandum, which,
therefore, the senior political ideas of the Prussian commercial policy fought, as the pioneering
precursor praise of the customs union, we must, by virtue of the same Logic, even large and
small German German declare comrades. Both parties known, sought German unity, but unfortunately
on opposite paths.

The statesmanlike sense of the brilliant swimming is not on a level with his economic insight. He
harbors probably doubt whether to join the Zollverein Austria could, to a certain conclusion,
he does not get yet. As late as 1835, he has to enter Austria thought possible, then would the customs
union of the most beautiful of all markets "form. The serious political reasons that such an idea
unacceptable to Prussia made, it must never become clear. Nor does he want to understand why
Prussia as a European power, the independence of its customs administration must keep up had
he called for a centralized in the hands of the Federal Customs Administration, the official
toll only shall be sworn to the covenant. Also in the discussion of side issues, he can not always
look beyond the narrow horizon of his native small state. So He will, with few exceptions,
take place the entire collection of duties only at the borders To leave because, in the opinion
of the Baden civil service, this means the borderlands should take particular advantage of
Baden. Maassen, however let in all the major Prussian Places packing plants and offices set
up, because without such relief a flourishing Forwarding trade flourish apparently could not.

Besides
these errors of the memorandum is of course a long series of deeply thoughtful, practical
useful suggestions, but is not one among them, not what the Prussian
Cabinet had known then and applied.

Nebenius developed with great clarity the sentence, that without the freedom of the customs union movement
was not possible. This idea, which today seems trivial and of course, was the diplomacy of small
states that Completely new time. The Berlin State men, he was well known, for only those states
that fit the Prussian customs system wanted, Prussia had offered free transport. Similarly,
deep thought were the principles of the Customs Tariff, which Nebenius designed. He will moderate
Financial duties set by name to the objects of general use, to the grocery; to the domestic
industry hard work necessary raw materials it releases, which protects goods factory it from customs
duties, which are similar to the usual smuggling premium, hostile action of foreign countries
should be answered with reprisals. Excellent idea, without question, but wrote as Nebenius, already
the Prussian tariff was published, the quite the same Based principles. Independent thinking
was precisely the South German state economy to the same Ideas out, which is often referred
to Eichhorn as the cornerstone of the Prussian system: "Freedom, Reciprocity, exclusion of Prohibition."
Was not it a strange character the general confusion of those days that so unusual mind wandered
so close approach the ideas of the Prussian customs system and yet not once raised the question whether, be the
construction of the German commercial unit on the firm ground of the system erected should?
- Nebenius is also grounded in the principle that the distribution of customs revenue to should
be the head of the population. But as his famous memorandum in Berlin, was since Prussia had
virtually the same momentous thoughts already in a state contract enforced. He then discussed
the customs union is impossible, but not the inner Consumption is taxed according to the same
principles, to achieve this goal, whether it had to be make do with the transition charges. Again,
this insight was in Berlin a long time ago, just because Eichhorn and Maassen knew far different
tax systems of neighboring countries wanted they do not offer a hasty agreement to hand. They
did likewise as good as Nebenius that it is enough to conclude a customs treaty for some years,
like him, hoping they confident the immense blessing of freedom of movement will re-lifting
of a once closed to prevent customs union ...

Nebenius was in diplomacy as a major general and head as a most uncomfortable Negotiators. He
was one of those quiet natures of scholars, under which an unadorned envelope very irritable
cherish self-confidence to endure the conflict reluctantly, yet difficult to refute. Far from the
noisy ostentation Friedrich List, he was by no means inclined to
be to make light behind a bushel.

He acknowledged, well, no single person could as author the customs union apply. But he boasted
that his memorandum had the idea of ​​a general Customs Union for the first time developed,
they have, except for a single error, the Constitution customs union in advance of the later drawn
correctly. He overlooked the fact that this single error precisely the vital question of German
trade policy concerned, he overlooked no less, that the best part of his memo merely expressed
a wish that Prussia by the fact already had taken place. He deserves only the great merit that he,
simultaneously with the Prussian Statesmen and independently of them, for some important questions
of German trade policy the right solution devised, but the crucial question: "Federal duties
or following the Prussian system? "was correct in Berlin, answered by Nebenius wrong ...

A clear understanding of the trade union, one and a half decades later came into being, entertained
in 1819 no one. "The idea had not yet" developed, used Eichhorn later say. The lift of the
great fabric was already stretched. There was the Prussian customs system, it was the expressed
will of Prussia, to extend this system and German neighbors without
pettiness ample share of the common customs revenues to grant.

Still lacked impact. There was the good will of neighbors, there was over here as over there
a clear idea of ​​the free and loose confederate forms which alone a permanent trade union
of sovereign states jealous - this never even risky companies - could provide. The goodwill has
subsequently produced the need. This constitution forms the customs union are not Nebenius, nor of
any thinker been devised in advance, since the theory to solve such tasks can not and are found
been in the ways of practical politics, through negotiations and mutual concessions between the
German states. The Baden thinker wrote as an irresponsible private citizen, He could boldly
take immediately the unity of the whole country in the eye. He has participated in this Ideals held
inviolable, and because he took so high a flight, he hit upon the impossible Plan of the Federal
customs duties. Prussian statesmen had to guard a precious possession: the difficult hard-won
and still threatened trade unity of their country. They had from the enthusiasts sometimes of small
hesitant sense, now accuse the self-satisfied arrogance leave, and by continued thoughtfully
built on the existing order, they reached the high goal. -

The right time were the creator of the Prussian Customs Law, a powerful diplomatic Allies in the new
speakers for the affairs of Germany, JAF Eichhorn, want to be the boss, Count Bernstorff on
the areas of trade policy was entirely free. Among the heroes of the work that courageously
weary days, the great traditions of Prussia held upright, laid in peaceful work of the reason for
his new stature as Eichhorn in the front row. His whole life had
prepared him transition to the role of peaceful Beastmaster of particularism.

In the tables Lowenstein Wertheim he had grown up along the lovely Corner of the Main valley of the
Tauber and ground, so right in the heart of the degenerate states of the world Old Empire, and
his days it was unforgettable for him, as there is still the messenger of the Imperial Supreme
Court in its old-fashioned dress the commands of the emperor and empire had seen enforced. Excited
by the deeds of Frederick, he had then gone north to the state of his Choice to serve, and also
proved to him that Prussia, the warmest love among those Germans finds that have only developed
this feeling. He was in Cleveland the collapse of the Prussian rule, then in fiscal 1806, the Hanover
arts of petty policy of annexation to watch and was not mad, despite all of his state. He then
attended Schill adventurous course and came to Berlin with stone and Gneisenau, with (W. von) Humboldt, Old Stone
(27) Kircheisen (28) in intimate intercourse, they were all the unknown young stranger now
considered as an equal. A student Spittler (29) formed thorough and versatile, He was the
first general counsel of the Berlin University and personally learned with the world better acquainted,
with Schleiermacher (30) linked the deeply religious man a loyal friendship, the great theologian
he belonged to the family of the bag by his marriage. The days of Liberation War He spent the first upscale
heart as an officer in Blucher letter, then as a member of Steins Central administration, where
he found ample opportunity in the small German governments to to survey the depths of the soul. Unshaken,
he carried the enthusiasm of those great years over to the quiet time of peace.

When he was in his fortieth year the important position in the Foreign Office, as inspired him
the hope that such a connection, as it once under the Central Government on a temporary basis,
unfinished, were unpopular, had to justify in the long run, the German States to join the band of the law,
trust, interest for ever to the crown of Prussia. This he considered as the completion, as the
purification of the dreams of 1813. He recognized the Article 19 of the Federal Act "the well-meaning
intention of the German princes, that, without prejudice their sovereignty, the German subjects
the benefits granted to a single country should be, "and he trusted
his Prussians to the power that was missing the league, this benefit
to give a country the Germans.

Besides the dashing boldness that is often admired the great eras of our history, it is easy to overlook
those cold, tough, persistent patience, which the Prussian State Art in the endlessly boring affairs
German become second nature was petty. Probably none of our statesmen made an old Prussian Virtue
practiced with such mastery as Eichhorn. As the brilliant man wades year after year through the viscous
mud poor negotiations, which already reading through physical disgust . Excite Nothing weakens
him the freshness of the spirit, it is always the thought at present, what a great goal behind
the small waves affairs, always pulls his frail Body after severe bouts of disease activity on
restless. Everywhere he has his eyes; as the doctor at the bedside, it monitors the mood of the
small farms, their wickedness, their Selfishness, their helpless folly. Sometimes he helps
himself with a sharp wit about the Boredom out. "What probably intend the Duke of Saxon houses?
- He writes again - Yes, if they only knew myself And after all the misery that his young princes!
cost to enter, but he keeps them respect and good will come willingly, with a friendly nation Disposition,
contrary to any reasonable desire. Often beat the dirty waves of persecution demagogues against his
honest name, he remained true to himself, stepped bravely pursued for its Friends claimed and
yet the confidence of the king. Then, Prince Metternich many years through to develop all his bad
wits against the hated Patriots, in the Vienna was considered the evil demon of Prussia. At the
same time the liberal press railed at the servile. But he was left stone upon stone to the nondescript
building unity and German trade suffered in silence the indignities of public opinion, for
any attempt to be justified would be safer crash was. After it came a time when the courts
are at least merit detected, all Order of the German Confederation, not only were Austrian,
the unassuming Privy awarded, and praised the writings of the State Customs grateful allies
him As "the soul of the Prussian Ministry. The nation but never knew quite what they owed him.

His hope was the Prussian customs system through contracts with neighboring German states to expand
gradually. For the forms and limits of this extension, he has not in advance designed a solid plan,
he turned, as it properly the difficulty of the undertaking paid tribute to victim of the
unpredictable course of events. The question whether Prussia's tariff barriers will one day stand
on Main or on Lake would, was not yet in 1819 practically, they was the head of the Prussian-German
politics, perhaps in his dreams, she could not to employ him in his work. Only one was it certain that the
new tariff system remain upright, must form the core group for the reorganization of the German traffic.
He demanded a free hand for Prussia's trade policy had in this field interference Austria's previous
decision. But any animosity against him was far from the Hofburg, the to separate idea, the
German Confederation of Austria, he had, the conservative, in the the ideas of 1813, lived
completely alien.

Even as an old man he has Radowitzs Union plans as unworkable Dream fight. -

An offensive malaise that had to be removed immediately offered the position of many Enclaves.
The customs lines were soon so far advanced that they Anhalt duchies almost completely and also
a part of the small Thuringian areas, with Prussia in the mixture lay included. All imported
goods were subject to those countries without further notice from the Prussian Import duties.
Only after the new border guard came into force, Eichhorn was the beginning move in 1819 these
states the invitation to the Berlin Cabinet because of customs to . Negotiate The king was ready
for cheap Convention sovereigns of the enclosed to transfer areas of the income flow to its
coffers from the enclaves. This short-tailed procedure "in the papers of the Treasury as" our
Enklavensystem was called, was, however, the small farms seem strange, but bade the need to
show these neighbors that they were dependent in its trade policy of Prussia. Only good-natured weakness
could be dependent on the success of the major customs reform from
the previous Approval of a dozen small men, according to the German
prince only way to eloquence faits accomplis were receptive.

Only the vanity of the neighboring princes was offended; the economic interests of the enclaves
has benefited Prussia approach seems a blessing. An independent trade policy remained in this poor
area of ​​rubble after all unthinkable. The prosperity of their economy was destroyed immediately
if they Prussia from its customs system excluded, and beat her with his round trees surrounded, and the
trade within the province Saxony suffered annoying fault when all through the Anhalt or the black-burg
previous products, leaded and control of the customs offices had to be subjected. Nor Prussia
was allowed to leave the traffic of enclaves completely unattended. What this little country even
mustered in customs revenue was, of course, only the eightieth part of the Prussian customs
revenue; but they could be smuggled through the finances of Prussia highly dangerous.

By sound financial recklessness of the Berlin men were given the free enclaves Traffic on the
Prussian market, its treasury, the promise of a secure ample Income they could earn on their own never.
The Prussian government acted in good faith who was willing, even against their own Enklavensystem Prussian
territory can be applied to, several times they said that if a South German Zollverein come about,
SHOULD EXPLAIN the enklavierte Wetzlar district to submit to the customs system. Was quite untenable
completely offended by the petty princes oft-repeated accusation, Prussia Enklavensystem violates
international law. All were subject to the enclaves of certain goods by operation of law the Prussian
transit duties, and when the Berlin court found to be good, the transit charges hinaufzuschrauben
on certain roads at the rate of import duties, could be legally argue against it nothing.

Eichhorn by the small states invited to neighborly agreements on the treatment landlocked, he said
both the willingness of the king, even through the terminal nichtenklavierter areas to negotiate. He emphasized
the national character of the Customs Act, He stressed that this
law was intended in Article 19 of the Federal Act, be determined initially
in a part of Germany lift the internal tolls, then to other states
facilitate the connection, the King deserves the gratitude of the
allies, since he started have to free the German market from the domination
of foreign countries.

In this national Prussia's trade policy direction has since held steadfast, in later take years,
often emerging proposals, such as Belgium or Switzerland in the customs union, in Berlin were
always rejected out of hand. Not cosmopolitan movement was Prussia's goal, but the lot of the country.
The king, says one of Bernstorff signed note to the College of the secret councils of Gotha
(13 June 1819), intended by the law of 26 May »mainly trade in non-German national products
to tax and competitors out of German factories of your own countries and from those Countries
to defend, which is herein do connect to your measures. "He cherish" the keen desire, the only
non-German tax and consumables for the Protection the Prussian state against the non-German industrial
factories nationwide measures taken related German states, as far as their situation allowed
some, not to be a disadvantageous position. " Then advises the note to form a Thuringian trade
association, then with Prussia should enter into customs liaison,
she draws so exactly the path that 14 years later has led to the trade
association of Prussia and Thuringia.

In the same sense, the official government newspaper asserted, "that Prussia already because of
its location, but even more so because the union of the individual interest of the German federal
states to a Total interest Prussia was especially desirable to the plan of complete free trade to offer
between the states of the hand is most inclined, and that it prefers see the difficulties raised
will that seemed to oppose the execution. " And when Christmas 1819 came against members of
the library's association to Berlin to the to win for a German government toll Association,
as they received from Hardenberg and three ministers, the insurance, "that the Prussian government,
far from unilateral measures undermine the prosperity of the German neighbors to do would rejoice,
if all the governments of Germany, on the principles of a Community, welfare Part of promoting
trade system could unite, for which the Prussian government very happy to offer hands would, in turn,
contribute to that all over Germany, the Benefits of a free society founded on justice will
trade given. , However, they not been concealed, that the state and the constitution of the individual
German states not yet prepared to joint arrangements appear, which may include particularly
that joint arrangements would be kept in a common sense of all. The thing therefore now seem
to only carry out that individual states, which may change the current State believed complained to those
League members, of which in their opinion the symptoms are caused, sought to unite and that in this
way matching Arrangements would be diverted from border to border, which had the purpose,
the inner to have partitions disappear more and more. "

This was round and very nice the idea of ​​a national trade policy which the annulment of the
Federal Parliament was the only possible. Marked as Prussia said, could a government do not talk
about unfinished drafts absolutely.

Weakened by fasting, and borne down by the weight of the trap, she came very near drowning
before she could scramble up again over the end of the log and seat herself amidships.

The kittens were foraging among the bushes, but she called to them in a tone which told them
plainly enough that some new trouble had befallen her, and they hurried down to the water's
edge, and stood there, mewing piteously. She implored them to follow her, and after much persuasion
the bigger and bolder of the two plunged bravely in. But he didn't get very far. It was very
cold and very wet, and he wasn't used to swimming. Besides, the water got into his nose and
made him sneeze, which distracted his attention so that for a moment he forgot all about his
mother, and just turned around and hustled back to the shore as fast as he could go. After
that he, contented himself with following along the bank and keeping as near her as he could.
Once the log drifted in so close that she thought she could jump ashore, and the Kitten watched
eagerly as she gathered herself for the spring. But the chain was too short, and she fell into
the water. Her forepaw just grazed the grass-tuft where the Kitten was standing, and for an
instant she felt the blades slipping between her toes; but the next moment she was swimming
for the log again, and the Kitten was mewing his sympathy at the top of his voice.

They journeyed on for nearly an hour longer, she on her prison-ship, and he on land; and then,
before either of them knew just what had happened, the little tributary had emptied itself
into the main stream of the Tahquamenon, and they suddenly realized that they were much farther
apart than they had been at any time before. This new river was several times as broad as the
one on which the voyage had begun, and the wind was steadily carrying her away from the shore,
while the current bore her resistlessly on in its long, slow voyage to Lake Superior. She was
still calling to him, but her voice was growing fainter and fainter in the distance, and so,
at last, she passed out of his sight and hearing forever.

And then, for the first time, he missed his brother. While Prussia barely 1.3 million Taler,
3 Sgr. referred to the head, through the taxation of beer, Bayern won alone its right bank
areas 5 million guilders, 21 Sgr. on the head, and out of such proceeds had to be remunerated according
to the Constitution, the national debt. It was impossible for Prussia's Beer tax at the same
height up the screws. The ancestral thirst could be as little transplant in the North and the
real justice of the Bavarian brewers, those ranging Tax benefit allowed for the first, but contradicted
the principles of the Prussian freedom of trade. Since the uniform taxation of domestic consumption,
therefore, was impracticable, it was the Prussian party financial stubbornly on the introduction
of Ausgleichungsabgaben. To the a correct view that every inch the approximate equality of
Community indirect tax assume, since 1818, was one of the leading ideas of the Prussian commercial
policy. The Berlin financiers had settled so deeply into this idea that she soon driven with
a fiscal hardship on the top. The Ausgleichungsabgaben are long, much by Prussia's guilt, a sore
spot of the customs laws remained, they heckled the traffic and brought low yield, even after
it later, the purely fiscal shape of the "transition charges" assumptions.

Prussia was wrong on this issue so raised and the southern most unreasonable
demands.

You initially demanded a complete transformation of the Tariff and found especially the Prussian
Duties on cotton goods unbearably high, since they themselves have almost no cotton mills possessed.
And yet could not give Prussia. Saxony's entrance was imminent, the Prussian Industry was lamenting
the imminent Mitwerbung of the Erzgebirge, in such an hour tariffs reduce even the free-traders
seemed Maassen not advisable. The von Württemberg required reduction of sugar duties were not carried,
and the powerful interests of the burgeoning Magdeburg beet sugar industry could not be divulged.
Similarly, the dreaded Prussian transit tariffs were still indispensable as a gentle hint to the
neighbors. In general the situation of the moment was the simplification of the tariff by no means cheap,
Prussia Statesmen sensed that the South German courts in the near future change the color
with schutzzöllnerischem zeal to penetrate the increase in tariffs would. Livelier than this State
economic war broke out the "constitutional controversy" as one in Munich used to say. The judicious
determination of the Prussian-Hessian treaties whereby Prussia should usually include only the
commercial contracts for the customs union was to the Bavarian Württemberg and the court as
an ignominious surrender, they demanded unconditional Equality in everything.

bring in so many ways to the same substantive concerns, but was proven statesmanship Force succeed.
The Upper German courts but had foolishly enough, two young subordinates
for this difficult mission authorized, probably only for reasons of
economy.

The savings they should pay dearly. Eichhorn had the negotiators of the Small States much of Wondrous
observed, a figure like this Wuerttemberg Agents, Assessor Moritz Mohl (116), it was not yet
occurred. Diplomacy in Berlin could not enough to express their surprise about the boisterous
man with the red wig and the overcrowded portfolios: to what a tedious minuteness, what joy barren
theoretical disputes, what a wealth of undigested learning, what a persistent distrust against Prussia!
The precocious State Swabian way already developed all of those talents, the remaining 40 years
later should delight the German Reichstag; L. Kuehne called him "a conceited fool, who the Bears
of the North Country's childish Constitutional Wisdom preach thought. " Mohl as the only coastal state
of the customs union of the closure would have prevented navigation treaties, as the Prussian replied:
"we are therefore a have to give our Baltic Sea ports to Württemberg to the equality between
the customs comrades produce, "With such colleagues could involve, and the Bavarian Assessor Bever
nothing to promote. The high-Prussian statesmen soon found it unbearable, with to negotiate
subalterns who inquired at every little thing at home, and all evil began again the old argument
of the Berlin Department: Kuehne and squirrel, but the both wanted the same thing, looked at
each other with mutual jealousy. Well-designed The negotiations with the friendly south, contrary
to expectations for a disagreeable discord. In May 1832 it broke off.

Moritz Mohl wrote now a huge memorial and proved that the customs union with Prussia would
bring about the certain doom of Württemberg. A generation has to Baron v. Varnbiiler this
classic piece of document rescued from oblivion to the world the vision man of the people's show.
King William wanted still to conclude, even Wangenheim had learned a lot, warned at a distance of
communication.

But the large majority in the country resisted. The manufacturers, so far from the mastery of
the Bavarian market large Profit drawn feared the industry of the Lower Rhine, the convenience
of the powerful Schreiber stand trembling before the strict Prussian control, staunchness Liberal
crossed himself before the specter of the North German absolutism. More than half a year needed
the South German courts, in order to form a new decision. Meanwhile, operating the diplomacy of
Austria and the foreign powers her face down in the courts of Central States. For a time was
the big deal almost hopeless. Baden is doing well, all Zollverein thoughts give up being -
the Bavarian Minister Gise said to the Baden Messenger Fahnenbergplatz - Prussia is outrageous demands,
demands that we sacrifice material and the limitation of sovereignty, Kurhessen connection already
regretted the hasty! In addition, there was little friendship between the officials of the
two kingdoms, a fortunate that Schmitz-Groll Castle, Württemberg Minister in Munich, King Ludwig
the confidence possessed and the threads did not break off completely.

The year was spent in tiresome upset. Since finally roused himself to King Ludwig, and let New Year's
Eve a firm note at Schmitz-Groll castle review: the South German club was dissolved in fact,
the resumption of negotiations Prussian absolutely inevitable. At the same time came from
the Berlin court of a serious warning: you would come to an end, so must take useless subaltern
a capable high-ranking politician to negotiations in Berlin .

Lead The Council worked. At the end of January l833, the Bavarian Minister of Finance v. Mieg
as joint representative of the two crowns sent to Berlin: a childhood friend of King ... Louis,
an excellent officer of great skill and rare work force that the King in his own way to the last drop
squeezes out - in the very trade policies free-minded, this kind and amiable, highly educated,
winning fine shapes. He avoided on Stuttgart travel because he was the pedantic slowness of Württemberg
Schreiber said distrusted, but on the way in Dresden, agreed with the Saxon Financiers and
was released on 6 February in the Prussian capital. Eichhorn and Maassen came to meet him warmly,
and it proved itself again ... "Prussia's rare talent, foreign statesmen to win in Berlin. "
Nor offered many of the concerns, but, as proven on his Prussia could point deal, its firmly
established customs administration, there remained only in the north to accept existing order
with some modifications. Prussia renounced any praecipuum ... The proceeds were distributed according
to the number, except for shipping charges on the Oder and the Vistula, which does not even belong
to the customs union, based Prussia Bausch sum. Even the most heartfelt wish of the Bavarian
superpower consciousness was true: every State was granted the right to conclude trade agreements, only
the contracts with the Russian Poland were reserved for the Prussian state. To pay for so many concessions
venture Mieg to cross at one point his instructions: he granted that the Prussian would customs
administration of the rapid transition in the southern half immediately introduced provisional,
before the customs union came into effect.

On 4 March, called the Hessian proxy to the first plenary meeting, on 22. I got in the contract:
the allied states, "in continuing care for the transport the freedom of trade between their countries
and thereby also in Germany at all, " form a "total association" on 1 January 1834 for eight years
comes to life. The Basic Law essentially corresponded to the Hessian contracts, only that the
independence of the allies has been significantly strengthened. Any changes to the customs laws
was unanimity among the allies required.

The worst defect of the association was less than in its statutes in the Shift the balance
of power. By the admission of several larger states with the same Voting was complicated by the free
operation of the trade policy preußifchen inevitable. The new rights, however, you acknowledged the
ewe lamb seemed questionable as they were ... The power to conclude trade agreements, this is from
Bavaria with such passionate Zeal sought treasure proved to be a harmless toy ... Prussia was alone
in a foreign country as the principal and representatives of the customs union and therefore have
all been important trade agreements by Prussia was concluded in the name of the association.
The control was reduced to Bavaria Importunity. The allies sent only club represented to the
Customs Directorates, inspectors was not a mutual visitation of the Frontier Service, the main
customs offices of the cooperative more instead. Such forms staggered a little, for in fact
the Association was also far only through mutual trust and the power of the interests were held
together. The allies promised each other "unlimited openness" in the customs administration, and they
have their word in good faith held ...

Since Bavaria and Württemberg still their foolish fear of financial losses did not give up, Thus, in
a secret article allies reserved the right to the club before the time to cancel if their customs
income, a loss of 10 per cent of the current gross profit had. Maassen signed a confident
courage, and he knew that the contract is a contract lion was in favor of the South, and the result should
far exceed their expectations. In the years 1834 to 1845 the north to Bavaria in 22.29 million dollars,
to Württemberg 10.3 million paid out in the period 1854-1865 received
from North Bavaria 34 million.

During the first two decades of the customs union have regularly settlement only Prussia, Saxony, Frankfurt
and Braunschweig paid out, all other states won. However, given that large numbers does not
completely accurate picture, since part of the inland specific import duty paid in the ports and
shipping places of the North was. Significant illuminates the disproportionate income of the
South from the fact that the administrative costs in Bavaria during the first year fell from
44 to 16, then to nearly 10 per cent, Bavaria's share in the coffee duty immediately to triple
by the year 1845 on a five-fold increased.

In order to avoid even the slightest appearance of Prussian hegemony, it was agreed that the
annual conferences are no longer representative of the customs union, as in the Prussian-Hessian Club
should regularly gather to Berlin, they emigrated from then on, at the discretion of the Allies,
from place to place, the first meeting was held in Munich. Disputes wanted to submit to the
decision of an arbitrator by unanimous decision be appointed for each case. But is such an
award never called been - not because the harmony would have been untroubled, but because of the
arrogance of the Small States the voluntary offset the disgraceful
submission to an alien power regularly preferred.

That Bavaria kept his beer tax was inevitable. They contented themselves, therefore, a fixed
maximum for the consumption tax and the progressive the tax system to promise. In such a loose alliance
remained the liberum veto * * [veto] and the right to terminate Prussia as indispensable as the
small states as a last desperate means to wrest the ponderous body to a decision. Only the hope
for a high political gain was the Prussian court so heavy sacrifices, determine such broad indulgence
for the crickets and vanities of the Central States. With superior patience Eichhorn expected
that in the almost ridiculous forms of this loose had to grow up a permanent association but community
of interests.

Mieg returned home in the firm expectation that the contract so very advantageous to him the pardon
vouch for his high-handed approach. He deceived himself hard. King Ludwig was able to separate
will not stand, received his friend with bitter accusations, that the Prussian Customs Regulations
should be introduced immediately temporarily, seemed a degradation of the Bavarian crown. The
Minister would, deep hurt, do not take back his word, he called and received his release ... Now,
the king took the document itself, and long, the fate the contract in doubt. Mieg successor, Lerchenfeld
recognized, though, after the papers realized the necessity of financial statements, but he moved
not right out with it.

Prince Oettingen-Wallerstein (117) altogether, this versatile liberalizing Minister proved memorandum
in detail: no customs union without Austria, the Prussian hegemony Bavaria's destruction. The Prussian
ambassador had also already lost everything and wrote despairingly: only Eichhorn himself could
still be saved. On Eichhorn hurried to Munich (July 1833) granted every last concession, admitted
that there are no temporary, should be winning friendliness brought in a few days everything
quite clear. Now the king broke again by good nature, he wished luck to the return of Frederick days
had a medal to mark the success of his most personal work, and said to the Nassau X-ray: "Austria
is a closed country with which we like to trade agreements, but conclude a customs union may, Prussia
is a flash that travels through the middle of Germany. "

No sooner had the crown Bayern won, the battle began with the Württemberg Diet. The Swabian and Baden
Liberals gathered at the beginning of the year in Pforzheim and there decided to resist the advancing
Prussian absolutism manfully. The Protectionists mourned the imminent defeat of the Swabian
industry, and the Partikularsten proved that Württemberg outlets to Frankfurt and Switzerland,
not to the north led, some pessimistic radicals begrudged the hated Ministry not a merit the
government deserved alone, she wanted even less that a significant reason general dissatisfaction
is eliminated.
 They bit and scratched
and clawed like two little devils, and the onlooker in the bushes must have felt a thrill of
pride over the strenuous way in which they strove for her favors. First one was on top, and
then the other. Now our Kitten had his rival by the ears, and now by the tail. One minute heads,
legs, and bodies were all mixed up in such a snarl that it seemed as if they could never be
untangled, and the next they backed off just long enough to catch their breath, and then flew
at each other's throats more savagely than ever. It was really more difficult than you would
suppose for either of them to get a good hold of the other, partly because their fur was so
thick, and partly because Nature had purposely made their skins very loose, with an eye to
just such performances as this. But they managed to do a good deal of damage, nevertheless;
and in the end the pretender was thoroughly whipped, and fled away in disgrace down the long,
snowy aisles of the forest, howling as he went, while the Kitten turned slowly and painfully
to the one who was at the bottom of all this unpleasantness. His ears were slit; one eye was
shut, and the lid of the other hung very low; he limped badly with his right hind-leg, and
many were the wounds and scratches along his breast and sides. But he didn't care. He had won
his spurs.

The story of the Kitten is told, for he was a kitten no longer.

POINTERS FROM A PORCUPINE QUILL

HE wasn't handsome--the original owner of this quill--and I can't say that he was very smart.
He was only a slow-witted, homely old porky who once lived by the Glimmerglass. But in spite
of his slow wits and his homeliness a great many things happened to him in the course of his life. Ventured
out from the darkness of such accusations, he always justified freely before the king himself,
for without the confidence of the monarchs of the Treasury could as a guard the overall internal administration
does not exist ...

In recent years, as Prussia's trade policy and the small neighbors compared to only achieved
little success. The small areas enclosed by the Prussian States were represented by the desolate
cry, rising at the courts and the press against the Customs Act, thoroughly intimidated. The Prince of
Rudolstadt dared only after three years (1822) understood the to follow the example of his cousin
and his Sonderhausen In the Prussian rule Customs system to join. In the next few years were
also two Weimar offices and the upper Duchy Bernburg included in the customs union, and all
participants were comfortable with the free market. But on the accession of the whole so often
promised Anhalt Land they were waiting in Berlin still in vain. Köthener Duke led war on smuggling
against his royal brother cheerfully continued, encouraged by the promptings of his Adam Mueller
and by the endless bickering in the Bundestag. When Mueller did it too bold operation, had complain
Hatzfeldt (61) in Vienna. Metternich was the charge d'affaires at once a sharp Reference because
of a behavior that "the known, existing between Austria and Prussia such intimate and friendly
relations "quite contrary, and replied to this letter binding with the Prussian court. Mueller's
secret transfers denominated but probably otherwise, he was in no way interfere with his activities
and found in the Jesuit environment Duchess of loyal allies. The breach of faith of the little
neighbor had the Berlin Court of tune more deeply, as now (1824), the Hohenzollern principalities
with Württemberg a Customs Treaty concluded, just after the model of Prussian Enklavenverträge.
Sun beat the small states themselves in the face. The same commercial agree Principles which Wangenheim
in Frankfurt, the Prussian government as a violation of the International law had been accused, now
introduced in Swabia, and the same liberal press, that the Prussian Enklavensystem showered
with insults, found the application of this system highly encouraging in Württemberg.

Once Motz had found their way into his new office, he told the Foreign
Office: Prussia's long-suffering towards the small neighboring farm
will be dishonest to the weakness that we must finally all the severity
of the Customs Act apply against him (January 1826).

Immediately afterwards asked Dessau Bernburg and the recording of some customs offices in the community
and received on Motz's Operation, the answer is: with such a piece of work had done nothing, did
the Dukes with their all areas to join, we would welcome them. After some hesitation appeared now
two Anhalt negotiators in Berlin, and the Bern burg, v. Salmuth, a Witty witty man, the evils
of the monastic Köthener Court thoroughly despised, Motz was a trade soon. During the course
of the summer, said the Duke of the Bernburg Submission of his entire country under the Prussian
customs law. Eight full years had So it has been open since the proclamation of this Act, until
the first time an entire German Klein joined state. The dessau sized Agents but broke off the negotiations,
for the meantime Adam Mueller was over come by to Dessau Köthen, supposedly to bathe, to be
in the trough, to thwart the truth to be connected to Prussia.

In a heart-breaking action letter said Duke Leopold of Dessau, to a niece the king was married, his uncle
his regret: many years ago he had the Köthen Cousin promised not join without it. The Prussian
Ministry demanded "that the enklavierten States foreign laws and
administrative forms must inevitably accept.

This However, Gracious King, I dare pronounce confidently do, All Highness not. Prussia's powerful
and righteous monarch, in the second article of the Federal Act sovereignty and independence is
guaranteed, never allow that the Minister by a firm adherence on characters of the contract the
spirit that prevails visible in it, mortify that would be borrowed from the former right title
for actual coercion. If I were the small, who has come on me heritage of my ancestors, that answered
my God and my beloved wife Prayers, the great grandson of a king will get out of my hand, before Maj.
EK heart and your Majesty to defend myself and my wife proved his father's sentiments dare, it
is missing I do not cause an immediate "- what for a long complaint about the Anhalt Country
threatened "police line" was followed.


Perhaps we had best follow her up and see what finally became of her. Half a mile from the
scene of the murder the boy came upon a woman and a little girl. I sha'n't try to describe
them, except to say that they were even worse off than he. Perhaps you read in the papers,
some years ago, about the woman and the two children who were lost for several weeks in the
woods of northern Michigan.

"I've got a porky," said the boy.

He dropped his burden on the ground, and they all stood around and looked at it. They were
hungry--oh, so hungry!--but for some reason they did not seem very eager to begin. An old porcupine
with her clothes on is not the most attractive of feasts, and they had no knife with which
to skin her, no salt to season the meat, no fire to cook it, and no matches with which to start
one. Was it not just as sovereign Köthen Prussia? How could
one expect of this sovereign power of a customs union that their blessing of course, only could
bring and resulted from its geographical position with inevitable necessity But contrary to
their self-determination rights? And if she chose, the freedom to use the same for malicious
damage to the neighboring country - in which article of the Federal Act because this was banned?
That reference is to the Vienna treaties elimination the black market had connected passed it
in silence. Bignon (48) and old Lawyer for the small German states, also entered the arena
with an open letter the Prussian-Anhalt dispute. He complained of pain that France no longer
how else could the Lower Rhine ago wait a judgeship on Germany, but "France is destined by
nature to rule forever, and if it lost the scepter of power has, it has nevertheless retained
the scepter of public opinion. " Before the scepter bearer of the public opinion was Prussia,
how cheap, no mercy. In this way, the usurpations, Bignon said, the House of Capetian walking
pace is once reached the point of the great vassals to destroy France. Trust Herzig said the
German liberals of the warning Bonapartists after.

The majority of the Bundestag was the action of the Köthen court that
even after the liberal Elbschiffes that was not withdrawn, willingly
meet.

Protested in vain King Friedrich Wilhelm, as he came in the summer of 1821 by Frankfurt, with sharp
words against the charge that he would mediate Anhalt. The small farms could not finish: Prussia
wish, as Berstett put it, its geographical Dünnleibigkeit "at the expense to round off some smaller
ones. " The newly appointed Federal Minister of Baden Blittersdorff (49) and the more intelligent
of his associates were well aware of how little "the known character of the Duke or was likely
but the Duchess, "a sensible agreement, but they thought that "This is the opportunity for the
Bundestag, its duration and life force was" to try out. It was necessary to humiliate Prussia against
a helpless neighbors, it was a major power of northern Germany To prove that, according to Marshal's
words, would be equally protected by Köthen, as Köthen by Prussia. Of the larger states of Bavaria
alone showed an understanding of the balance of power, just after the Munich government itself,
the difficulties of had met the introduction of a new tariff system, she said, but that a small
difference exists between a rich and an enclave. The other assessed the question of the Aspects
of civil procedure, and because the legal issue was doubtful, however, so relaxing at the Bundestag
a grim feud, which dragged on for many years, the liberal Newspapers repeatedly offered the welcome opportunity
to Prussia than peace breaker Germany to brand.

So that was the result of Prussia for trade negotiations in Vienna and Dresden. The new customs
code was unchanged despite the opposition of almost all states maintain remained, even the freedom
of the same was made a makeshift safe, and the old view the Prussian
Government that the federal government absolutely nothing for the
German market to virtue make, had again confirmed.

But equally it was clear the knowledge, that negotiations with the individual States, in their
present mood, very preliminary were futile. What incorrigible hatred was opposed to Count
Bernstorff, pretentious language which he had had to listen, first in Vienna and then in Dresden!
After so depressing Experience in Berlin we took the decision to agree, shall be taken from
now on no more invitations to leave, but left to wait until the plight of the small neighbors
open my eyes. In that effect was sent to all the ambassadors in Germany measured the transfer,
shall be strictly reply to withhold and to all trade inquiries only: the king had in the year 1818
prepared to negotiate said he still cherish the desire of other German states to join with its customs systems,
and now it was up to the neighbors, the good Will to meet. Eichhorn justified this decision on the
consideration that the jealousy Invitations would be tempted by the dynasties of experience,
was: "Such claims could same time as calls for change in its internal state legislation and
as their self- hazardous enticements be misinterpreted. "Against the deep-rooted distrust of the
small Farms had only one weapon: a quiet serenity that made work the nature of things for themselves.
What was staggered even if the press incessantly about Prussia selfish special position Woe cried?
By public opinion, which was far more deluded than the courts, had the lot of his country to expect
nothing, Prussia's best ally was the growing financial problems of small states.

Source: H. von Treitschke, German History, etc. III, 29ff.

------------------

32 Christian Gunther Graf von Bernstorff, born 3rd April 1769, died 28th March 1835, entered
Swedish service in 1818, the Prussian and became Minister of Foreign
Affairs.

In 1832 he resigned from his Back office.

                            

   33 Karl Wilhelm Freiherr von Fritsch, born 16 June 1769, died 16th October
      1851, was from 1815 to 1843 Grand Duchy. Saxon. Minister.
      
      34 Ernst III. since 12 November 1826, Ernst I of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha
(Died January 29, 1844).

   
      

   Nassau's 35 representatives in the Bundestag.
      

   36 William I, died 27th Februar 1821st

37 Adam Müller, born 30 June
1779, died 17th January 1829, then Austrian consul general for Saxony
in Leipzig.

   

   
      38 Georg Friedrich Freiherr von Zentner, birth 27 August 1752, died
20 October 1835, Bavarian Minister of State and Justice.

   
      

   39 Ludw. Phil Graf von Bombelles, born 1 July 1780, died 7th July 1843,
      Austrian diplomat, then ambassador in Dresden, afterwards to other
      courts.

   

   40 Charles Augustus, born 3rd September 1757, died 14th Juni 1828th
      
      41 John Rudolf Freiherr von Buol-looking stone, birth 21 November
1763, died 12 February 1834, from 1816 to 1823 Bundespräsidialgesandter,
Minister of State and later President of the Hofkommission.

   
      

   42 Karl August Freiherr von Wangenheim, born 14th March 1773, died
19th July 1850, Württemberg from 1817 to 1823 an envoy at the Bundestag.

43

   The raging madness.
      
      44 In the towpath is meant to navigable waterways of pedestrian,
      from which ships by means of a mast on fixed line upstream drawn
or become "towed (Hence called towpaths).

   
      
      45 Wilh.

   Ludwig Georg Graf zu Sayn-Wittgenstein, born 9 October 1770, d. 11th
      April 1851, Police Minister from 1814 to 1819, since then Minister
      of the Royal House.
      
      46 Anhalt was divided into 3 parts then Anhalt-Dessau, Anhalt-Köthen,
Anhalt-Bernburg.

   A. Duke of Dessau-time was Leopold IV Friedrich (1817-1871), by A.
Ferdinand-Köthen (1818-1830), of A.-Bernburg Alexius Friedr.

   Christian (1796 to 1834). Since 1863 was All Anhalt region in
      the hands of Leopold IV combined.
      
      47 9. August 1817th

   
      48 Baron Bignon Louis Pierre, born 1771, died 5th January
      1841, French Diplomat and journalist, temporarily as a French
      Charge d'Affaires and Minister Plenipotentiary at German courts operate,
to Belle-Alliance Minister of Foreign Affairs.

49 Karl Friedrich Freiherr von Landolin Blittersdorf, born 10th February 1792, died 16th April 1861, was
from 1821 to 1835 Baden Federal Minister, then to 1843 Minister of Foreign Affairs, Federal Minister
again from 1843-1848.

4. The Darmstadt tariff conferences.

Very important was the great trade conference of the southern and some central Germany Small
States, which, according to the Vienna appointments, 13 September 1820 met in Darmstadt. Here, too, was
Wangenheim the unrest in the Clock. He tirelessly walked over ridden by Frankfurt, always
ready to mediate, the same friend of the protectionists and free traders List Nebenius, for out
of this trading days was infallible, the political federation of the pure Germany . Emerge In fact, the
Darmstadt negotiations were not completely sterile, although the plans and counter plans still restless
as the bubbles in boiling water tank above the other crowded.

They served as a purification process that the useless, beautiful thoughts retired from the German trade
policy. They offered to participants as the attention of viewers Berlin Court an opportunity to the
economic interests of the states to know Learn to consider the terms of a trade association
seriously. But she also taught by their repeated failure, that a customs union without Prussia
was impossible. By an inland Economic areas, which lacked the coast, could never be a viable
national trade policy . Go

No wonder, indeed, that the battered nation's first attempt to eliminate the internal tolls received
with jubilation. Many thanks addresses rewarded the generous decision of the courts. Badische
Farmers testified in advance to the Minister Berstett: by the Darmstadt conferences was "laying
the foundation" to a glorious, a true national institutions. Even those EW Arnoldi wise in Gotha,
the first among the German business men, the national Importance of the Prussian Customs Act
had recognized, had now by the time flow and carried away his Herzog asked for connecting to
the southern states, because the Gotha Competition of the superior Prussian factories could
not bear. The wishes and expectations the audience were certainly hergebrachtermaßen apart in
all directions. The Baden commercial classes demanded the unconditional free trade: more than
15 inches could cruiser hundredweight of groceries not bear absolutely. Others indulged in
the usual Attacks on "those proud foreigners."

In the Bavarian Chamber requested the deputy Köster a German national costume from German materials;
had been in elementary school the Children of the patriotic aversion to foreign goods by mouth.
The Mannheim Merchants, however, hoped primarily on hard duties against the Frankfurt market:
the club other places should also grant the benefits, which the proud main city its undue large
capital owe; the Rhine Prussia should he deny any relief, so long not the Prussian state to join
the clubs and the majority into submission.

Unfortunately, the general confusion only increased by the font list and his comrades, the gradually
lost entirely in the errors of the rigid prohibitive. Miller Immenstadt called in a specific
for the Darmstadt conference publication (July 1821): ban on all foreign goods we produce
or be replaced by surrogates can, with Switzerland and Piedmont, with Holland, Hanover, the Hanseatic
cities and Holstein had we are looking to combine the king of Denmark will be a loyal German Federal
prince certainly be inclined to meet the ships of the association with his Danish flag. All
this in Names of German honor and patriotism with the inevitable pathos! Governments were the intrusive
reminders of the library's association, which is also reflected in
Darmstadt Emissaries was represented, sometimes very uncomfortable.

The Baden Agents Nebenius banned his secretary, to operate with List, told the agitator in the face,
is his presence superfluous, arouses bad rumors. Library remained without any influence on the
course of deliberations, and Berstett thought necessary to his patron, Metternich protest from
the start: only the Law of self preservation "not that one-sided, deceitful, selfish by a small
number Manufacturers outgoing declamations "the Darmstadt-based company had caused.

The cabinets themselves were by no means certain as the public opinion, for the allied States
were only apparently a geographical unit. Once you get the business seriously the eye saw, it was
found that a natural community of South German economy, the North towards, not stock. Instead, once
again came that peculiar position of Rhineland out that so many times in our history, the salutary
role of mediator has played between North and South. The small States were the Upper Rhine Rhine
Lowlands connected by stronger interests than the Bavarian-Swabian lands. Now, even Electoral
Hesse and Thuringia were only a political whim, by hatred of Prussia,
driven in this southern German cooperative.

Therefore, the Kassel court acted from the outset listless and negative. The Thuringian States
began in 1822 special consultations in Arnstadt, but at the same time they took part in the Darmstadt
conferences and harassed the Berlin Cabinet with meaningless general inquiries - the helplessness
of not-in will and Can not.

And what a contrast between the state economic laws and views! Banned in Baden the high tariffs
of itself, because the whole country consisted only of border counties and the adjacent Switzerland
still had no ordered toll system. The government understood the strategic trading position the state
sent to exploit, they made do with very low financial duties, which a flourishing transit trade
to Baden and attracted the rich treasury yield brought. Large-scale industry under this system could not
take foot course, it was Ministry of Finance to be unnecessary. The people they are not missed,
since the free trade inexpensive Manufactured goods brought from abroad. All German neighbors,
but complained loudly, for a great Smuggling trade drove her from swimming, especially in the Black
Forest, on the loose, found in Government unseemly indulgence, some ugly scandals, the vast Defraudationsprozeß
Company Renner, recalled Köthensche states. In Darmstadt, yet there was an obsolete Physiocratic
system that knew no border tariffs and almost the entire state expense direct taxes and the proceeds of
the disputed domain, the Mainz trade status, which the Douane Napoleon still could not forget,
urged the government to guard against this plague. In Nassau, the ducal Domanium went with his
beautiful vineyards and mineral waters any other economic interest. Therefore considered dangerous
to the state marshal for the factories, Border tariffs at least for concern and led a Akzisesystem he
neighbors often recommended as a financial and political masterpiece. The powerful civil service
was well asked the producer, at the unnatural cheapness of consumption in the tight market
no one. Bayern had however already in Franconia and Swabia, the beginnings of an emerging Large
industry, and the Bavarian tariffs were on average slightly lower than the Prussian, but brought
low yield because of the disproportionate cost of border security.

The Württemberg commercial industry was behind the Bavarian back a bit, the Stuttgart Trade
policy was therefore in the middle between the Free Trade of the Rhine States and the protectionist
demands of Bavarian manufacturers.

reconciled to How different directions was impossible on the narrow space of a southern German
Association. But a large free market area could compensate sufficiently for the States the inevitable
victims of harassment and that any customs union initially imposed the comrades; and that only
sufficient spare you won only by gaining access to Prussia, of all participants were rejected
in principle. "We all - so you later confessed Thil itself -. yes only intended to make after
that front against Prussia, "Even the political unity of the Allies was on shaky ground, how loudly
the liberals the natural waistband of constitutional states praised. ... It was a misfortune
for the conference that her multiple Federal Minister as Agent belonged and therefore also the
intrigue and gossip Eschenheimer the street in the shambles of the proceedings into play.
Du Thil, however business negotiations, as his senile Grand Duke, with a sober business sense
and wanted to hear nothing of political ulterior motives. Marshal and after some hesitation
and Berstett remained in the political waters of the Imperial Palace. The Cabinet finally Munich
had no firm position. While Aretino (50), the first Agent, at Darmstadt as Frankfurt carefully
followed the tracks and Wangenheim Lerchenfeld (51) ... the southern German Trade association wanted
honest, looked Graf Rechenberg (52), the Darmstadt conference Distrust, and the second Jörres Agents,
which depended entirely on Rechenberg did, under the Hand to his own, to complicate the negotiations.
With tenacious obstinacy held each farm's Determines entitlements,
although still basically formed by any one commercial persuasion possessed,
and each concession seemed like a betrayal of one's own sovereignty.

Were missing all prerequisites of an understanding.

A magnificent end figurehead for the club was quickly found. The trade policy of the allies should
rest on the "state economic-financial principle" - a beautiful word, which unfortunately each
cabinet backed a different meaning. The host of the ablest state Assembly, Nebenius, was entrusted
to you Thils proposal to prepare a draft for discussion. Full Confidence he went to work, he
shared the general view of the southern German bureaucracy, that the abolition of internal tolls particularism
had strong, and wrote his Court hopeful is "through our association to the unit the most important
and most telling preachers Argument snatched victory. "However, the plan he 27 November presented
corresponded only the interest of Baden, was unacceptable to all other states. He proposed a system
very low revenue duties before, for the talents of groceries to 2
fl 30 Kreuzer, for manufactured goods 5-15 fl - phrases that Aretino
was far too low. The Porky's coat of quills and hair was so thick
that a blow on the back did not trouble him much. If my friend could have hit him across the
nose it would have ended the matter then and there, but the canoe was too narrow and its sides
too high for a crosswise stroke. He tried thrusting, but that was no better. When a good-sized
porcupine has really made up his mind to go somewhere he may be slow, but it takes more than
a punch with the end of a stick to stop him; and this Porky had fully determined to go aft
and get acquainted with the foreman.

My friend couldn't even kick, for he was kneeling on the bottom of the dug-out, with his feet
behind him, and if he tried to stand up he would probably capsize.

"Say, Hulbert, what am I going to do?"

I didn't give him any advice, for my sympathies were largely with the Porcupine. Besides, I
hadn't any advice to give. Just then the canoe drifted around so that I could look into it,
and I beheld the Porcupine bearing down on my helpless friend like Birnam Wood on its way to
Dunsinane, his ruffle of quills erect, fire in his little black eyes, and a thirst for vengeance
in his whole aspect. My friend made one or two final and ineffectual jabs at him, and then
gave it up.

"It's no use!" he called; "I'll have to tip over!" and the next second the canoe was upside
down and both belligerents were in the water. The Porcupine floated high--I suppose his hollow
quills helped to keep him up--and he proved a much better swimmer than I had expected, for
he quickly made his way to the beach and disappeared in the woods, still chattering disrespectfully. He had no idea of ​​distance, which is reflected
in Astorre the soul went, but even if they and researched, this would have to be chaste The secret
child of the world not disclosed.

Ascanio There would be good, and reminiscent of another command of the tyrant, the Moench to
bring to the people, he asked funny: 'cater for the wedding ring, Astorre? For it is written
in the ceremonies, section two, paragraph so and so: Will the maturity
changed. "

This said, it will be found in the house like treasure.

"Not so, Astorre," said Ascanio. 'If you follow me, you buy your Diana a new one. Who knows
what stuck for stories on the used rings. Cast behind the old you. It also sends the very excellent:
you buy her a ring at the Florentine on the Bridge. Do you know the man? But as you should! Listen:
When I got in the Fruehstunde, Returning with Germano in the city, our only bridge over the canal
trod - we had to dismount and lead the horses, so dense was the crowd there - had, by my faith,
on the weathered top of the Brueckenpfeilers opened a goldsmith's shop, and quite Padua fumbled
and haggled before it. Why on the narrow bridge, Astorre, because we are many places? Because in Florence
are the Schmucklaeden on Arnobruecke. Because - admire the logic of fashion! where to buy fine
jewelry, as a Florentine, and where specifies a From Florence, if not on a bridge? He does
not even different. Otherwise would be his goods a clumsy stuff and he is no real Florentines.
But this is it, I mean. Has he not with huge letters written about his room: Niccolo dei Lippo
Lippi, the goldsmith, a cheap and unjust verdict, as customary to the Arno are expelled from their homeland.
On Astorre! we go to the bridge! "

This did not refuse, since he himself might feel the need, the spell
of the house district to break, which he had since he touched down
his habit not to leave it.

'Did you put money to you, friend monk? " Ascanio joked. 'Your vow of poverty lapsed, and the
Florentine will overwhelm you. " He knocked at the Schiebfensterchen in the lower hall, which the youths
just walked through rural estate office. It there was an impish face, every wrinkle a scam and
the administrator of the Vice Domini - a Genoese, if I am correctly - his master handed creeping
with a bow Goldbyzantinern filled with bags.

Then the monk was a servant in the comfortable Paduan summer coat with hood wrapped.

On the road you took Astorre same low over his face, much against the burning rays the sun than from long
habit, and turned friendly toward his companion. 'Not true, Ascanio, "he said, this gear I do alone?
A simple gold ring to buy about rising my Moenchsverstand not. That you trust me yet? See you
at my wedding, when it rings Vesper! " Ascanio went and called out over his shoulder: 'one, not two! To
yours gives you Diana! Remember that, Astorre! "

It was one of those colored soap bubbles Funny that the more than a hunted every day of the lips
in the air.

I inquire of you, gentlemen, why the monk's friend on leave, I say he wanted to the heavenly
sound, which the young martyr of the love child awakened in his mind had indicated to end clean.

Astorre
had reached the bridge, which was packed in spite of the sunburn and the near two banks of
a double Menschengedraenge before the store led the Florentine. The Moench remained undetected under his
coat, whether now and then a questioning eye on the uncovered part of his face rested. Nobility
and burgesses tried to go first to win. Elegant women rose from their litters and let crowd and
press to a pair Bracelets and a headband to bargain for by the latest tactics. The Florentines
had at all Squares can proclaim with the collar, he conclude today
after the Ave Maria.

He thought not believe it. But what does a Florentine the lie!

At last the monk, hemmed in by people from the booth. The assailed trader that tenfold touched him
with an experienced side view and guessed at once the newcomer. How
can I serve the educated taste of glory? " he asked. Give me a simple
Gold ring, "replied the monk. At any rate he looked so lonesome and forlorn that
the mossback felt a little thrill of pity for him, and decided not to kill him after all, but
to drive him away again. He started down the steps with his lamp in one hand and a stick of
wood in the other, and then--he never knew how it happened, but in some way he stumbled and
fell. Never in all his life, not even when his wildest nightmare came and sat on him in the
wee, sma' hours, had he come so near screaming out in terror as he did at that moment. He thought
he was going to sit down on the Porcupine. Not least was the economic hardship the popular
movements in the autumn of 1830 caused. The little country with its 154 square miles had 154
miles customs border. Naughty than anywhere on German soil grew here of smuggling; in closed flocks
took off Blacker, measured with the customs guards in open Battles. While the costs of customs
administration on the yield of import duties and taxes consumed almost now began to dry up and
the rich customs transit, as the transit after the new Thüringer Straße hinüberzog. When the riots
broke out all toll officials left in Hanau and Fuldischen their office buildings, masses of other
unpaid goods flowed into the country, and the Federal Minister Meyer Field told the Bundestag,
must not risk the government, the customs offices restore. Horrified Blittersdorff wrote: "The tolls
are easy for all of Germany become a watchword of rebellion. "

But how could Kurhessen out from the unbearable state of emergency? The government was twofold
bound: by the Central German Trade Association and by the Eimbeck contract. That was dying,
this was still a draft for the present one, nothing changed in the sufferings of the country.
It fluctuated long, nor go in the autumn of 1830 was dedicated. Meisterlin Council, one of
the authors of the Eimbeck Treaty, the country stands a pamphlet, the entry into the Prussian customs
system rejected because of Hesse industriousness Mitwerbung the industry is not the superior
bank of the Rhine could bear. The old aversion to the Elector of Prussia was not gone, also seemed
but consider him to break a two-fold interwoven easily. He wanted - and with him probably the
majority in the country - a mark of the entire Association of Germany, the special frets would have lifted
itself. In this sense, Meyer had to field in the Bavarian parliament Messenger Lerchenfeld request
confidential. The Munich Cabinet knew but now the trade policy Plans such as the negotiation of the
Berlin court, therefore, was to count Armansperg Lerchenfeld the rational transfer: this thing
is too cautious to draw meaning that they in Berlin Prussia's leadership could be done. However,
it could decide the elector still do not with the hated Prussians and the so grossly insulted Darmstadt
cousin to negotiate alone. Still in the field the following spring was Meyer's contract, the union
of all German to apply for toll associations in the Bundestag, as it warned Nagler: Prussia never
will a agree to such a utopia.

Meanwhile had Motz, a relative of the Prussian minister, the Hessian Ministry of Finance accepted.
The anarchy in the customs area was untenable, and the commissioners of the Eimbeck Association,
which met in Hanover, could not agree. Motz and his brave colleague Schenk Schweinsberg finally
led to the elector that he and the bureaucrats Ries Meisterlin in June sent to Berlin to Darmstadt
with Prussia and Bavaria-Wurttemberg both a customs union to close. But Eichhorn was adamant the two
agents of the old Prussian Contrary to principle: negotiations with several countries at the same
time are futile. Vain bristled the elector, you had to add the requirement of the Berlin court,
with Prussia-Darmstadt alone negotiate. In order Maassen L. Kuehne led the negotiation. The simple civil
little man turned out already, as all the shops later in the customs union, as masterful diplomat.
Clear and precise, with superior expertise and honest will, he developed his proposals, but
when he opposed the foolish distrust of the little ones then flashed his little sharp eyes, and
he made all the maneuvering to cut Sarcasm off. On the issue of Prussia, if not yet by the Electoral
Hesse in central Germany Commercial contracts is bound, refused to Hessen any answer because
they conscience proposed. So we went in silence over this sore point. The Kurhessen urged
to Hurry, for they feared another swing at their home court, where Austria and England-Hannover
could jump all the mines, and they were frightened by the approaching Cholera, the weird floor
leave Berlin as quickly again. On 29 August 1831 Everything was finished. To the zollverein friendly
kings of Bavaria, to pay honor to the contract was on the Ludwigstag (25 August) signed. Electoral
Hesse joined the Prussian Customs system at substantially the same terms as before Darmstadt.
The old Elector let this humiliation nor indulge a few days before the government of his son
ceded. Seven years ago we had been ready in Berlin, an increased income to Kurhessen to grant,
and now the electorate had lost its transit trade, and by frequent Sins forfeited any right to preferential
treatment. Hesse had to content themselves with the scale the head count.

The contract was for Kurhessen a political necessity, he saved the country from nameless Misery.
Even the Kassel State Parliament did not dare to contradict. The East German allies indeed threatened
and blustered.

Not without reason: Kurhessen had in its crudest forms Broken contractual obligation, without even
an understanding with the serious old allies to try. For Prussia, however, a clear profit was achieved.
As the Gotha-Meininger Strasse the secured transactions with the South German club had, so now
was the long-awaited connection between the East and the West prepared the Central German club still
on a second Body broken. While in Thuringia, the duty-free transit of Prussia Road the East German
allies had been dangerous, Kurhessen the higher transit tariffs Prussian Tariff of importing. In Bavaria,
Prussia was the urgent representations Hessian duties soon reduced by half. An even further reduction
was for the present one impracticable, the East German allies, especially the Frankfurt merchants
should feel that they were dependent of Prussia, and are reinforced by wholesome pressure
in their early Conversion.

Electoral Hesse was destroyed by the fall of the Central German trade association. Liberalism
certainly was not going as fast from the cherished phrases. In Bavaria, declaimed Siebenpfeiffer against
the toll: they should have been the cause of the people and is become
the enemy of the people!

Stromeyer wrote in swimming in the dreaded journal Rhine Bavaria, "a thunderous article: Prussian
aristocrats forehead dares to appeal to nationalist sentiment! prevails in Prussia, harder than anywhere
in the world, the iron consequence of the mercantile system, the Central German Association represents
freedom. So hold on to Baden liberal in his admirable customs. Then, Württemberg, in any case
due to its high political formation to the constitutional Model state is close, and soon the constitutional
Bavaria, Saxony, the Electorate of Hesse Baden System to join! - Also one of the noblest and most
learned representatives of German Science broke a lance for the dying Sonderbund. Johann Friedrich Böhmer
(108) wrote the strange little book "that illuminates the history of customs in Germany." The
Legitimist of the Holy Empire turned to the bold proposition that the duty-free treatment
of the German rivers had apply as of right for the country roads. He praised the Central German club
as "the last attempt of what a least been considered as a German common law and freedom, as much as
possible to secure at least contract by contract. " He scolded the Prussian Reich enemy and breakers
of the peace ", warned the Small States," the ease with incorporations of neighboring countries
tie in customs matters, "and consoled himself of the beautiful word that twelve years ago kk
the presidential envoy said: that "the Federal Assembly of the high transport and take the
fulfillment of the German trade in the hand will! "

The Saxon courts were no longer able to indulge such whims. The Not the budget loud, the murmurs
of the people forced them to knock humbly begging in Berlin. Poor lawyer had to hold arts,
to gloss over the breach of contract.

Meiningen alleged that the Central German club had been torn apart by the Eimbeck contract, he
there is no longer justified. The betrayal of one of the other served as a pretext, once the small
Thuringian fluctuated, the Dresden Cabinet referred to the articles of Kassel Treaty, which
the totally enclosed parts of the territory from abroad to the statutes of the association
should not be affected. The case is now Saxony, Thuringia, with Prussia if sensible - An obvious
sophistry, since that clause referred only to remote enclaves. Wanted the Saxon court proceedings
honest, he was immediately a new Congress of the Central German Ally called to ask where the resolution
of unsustainable society and only then to Prussia to negotiate. But the old politics of pandering to
the half-measures, of distrust Prussia was not even under the new Ministry Lindenau immediately
abandoned. The Saxon Government believed it could enforce their wishes in Berlin safe when connected
to the phantom of the Central German club still had a support, they began to negotiate with
Prussia, even before she was freed of its earlier commitment.

After the Dresden cabinet already asked in August 1830 at the quiet southern crowns, had to be the old
king Anton finally decide to write to the King of Prussia itself. He protested that he had long
had the intention to connect with Prussia in commercial connection
"And thus to act in the spirit of the highly important and beneficial
purpose the achievement of of inhabitants.

Majesty for some time intended. That this transaction of Prussia would be started and taken the
necessary condition for success seems to be. "Lindenau brought in January 1831, this personal letter
to Berlin, also presented a memorandum Saxony which expressed the resolve to enforce the resolution
of the Central German association "Since the initiative, purpose and reason of the association
no longer exist. The need for a turbulent period, the confidence of the commencement of such hearing,
the excited to calm tempers in the safest, and finally the hope that such a majority of German Federal
States Association of comprehensive on the larger world events are a peaceful could "speak soothing
influence, encouraged the Saxon court, the negotiations in Berlin to begin.

Only pitiful was the humiliation of Weimar. The same Minister Schweitzer [p. Footnote, p. 132],
the fight for years the Prussian customs system as the mortal enemy of German freedom of trade
had assured the Foreign Office in July 1830: "that the promotion of the king of Prussia began in
his purposes and his reasons are clearly prominent German Work, ie to promote free trade and
traffic in the German fatherland of Prussia from the Grand Duke of
Weimar, in agreement with the Kingdom of Saxony with pleasure the
Hand will provide.

"Then sang the Weimar Minister Fritsch [p. Footnote p. 47] the dirge the special federal "On
sufficient time to form the association is no longer expected, after the major world historical
events since 25 July 1830 and its consequences on German soil using a wide-accelerator made
it necessary, one can say that the evils which should be treated as a chronic, have transformed into
acute. Only damage only ruin it might bring, if one is restricted under such circumstances, even
against each other to wanted to keep committed to doing nothing at a time in which all public
affairs all other claims is. What the years have taken in 1829 and 1830 and brought settled in
1828 not foresee not anticipate. Kassel's club was and remains a major undertaking, not without
consequences. It is the founders of that a fair Judgement in history to miss the less, the
more willing they are now a confession and place press that a new time has come for us. "

Friedrich Wilhelm said the King of Saxony, very friendly, he was ready to Saxony to consider
applications, and also spoke out openly about the objectives of its national trade policy:
"Although the conclusion of these contracts was always just with individual states, so we had
but not exclusive interest of those directly involved in the eye, but were pursued at the same time
the point that the individual contracts might serve as a means the freedom of movement in Germany
to give a greater extent. "The Weimar Court expressed the Foreign Minister of his joy, that
our work in the eyes Weimar's "ever more clearly as a German plant
emerges," and then he repeated in cutting Expressing a hundred distinct
reminder of Prussia: the Thuringian should communicate only among
themselves, before Prussia could negotiate with them.

After such successes in Berlin was solid than ever convinced that the chosen Path of individual
negotiations alone would lead to the goal. With full security wrote Bernstorff the king: "The creation
of a general German customs and trade system or some other permanent institution of similar nature
is a problem whose solution the league as long as remain impossible, as the same is not another, quite
different from the present Organization possesses. " Since the collapse of the central German
special federal seemed free of the web for the complete unification of the two friendly customs
union of the South and the North. What should now stop, since both parts of the unsustainability
of the existing state of vivid felt? since the intermediate states
are no longer enemies stood in the way, but even asked about their
record? as the fundamental law of the Prussian-Hessian Association
will self- offered as the rule for the big club?

Yet Prussia was again and again by the sand, wade up the swirling winds in the desert of German
particularism. Almost three Years, from 1830 1833, played in Berlin, often interrupted, a triple
row arduous negotiations: with Bavaria-Württemberg, Saxony, the Thuringian states; and the business
would never come to the conclusion, if you do not rehearse the old principle true, the negotiations
with the groups apart would have kept sharp. The Comparison suggests itself involuntarily:
the German customs union walked out of the Prussian-Hessian produced under similar struggles
and concerns, as later the German Empire from the North German Bunde. The customs union such as
the North German Confederation came to the highest difficulty until larger than the middle states,
with their firmly rooted and not entirely unjustified particularism, occurred with the fullness
of their seemingly divergent interests, or indeed in the negotiations. At Versailles, such
as 40 years ago in Berlin, the South German crowns behaved at first, as it stands rather than
building new, as yet there is no fundamental law, only after long, embarrassing hesitation,
she recognized the existing order in the north, but by the construction of extended was also
the solid structure is loosened its walls.

The commercial treaty between Prussia and Bavaria-Wurttemberg-Hessen was in the beginning of
the Intention of progressive expansion completed. In Munich, however, began the ultra-montane Party
to pull immediately to the new covenant, and to gnaw. Their leaders, Schenk (109), Gorres, Ringseis
(110), stood by the Imperial Legation Wolff with the Imperial Palace in traffic; the Messenger
in Vienna, Count Bray (111), was obtained for Metternich, likewise, more recently, the old Field Marshal
Wrede. (112) In light of these powerful opponents, and the unpredictable whims King Ludwig was Bernstorff
necessary to satisfy all desires of Bavaria as far as possible. The Munich court initially wanted
to enter in the Bavarian Baden-Württemberg Association; because the Baden area loomed as a divisive
wedge between the Bavarian Palatinate and the Bulk of the country club in, and under the protection
of the Karlsruhe-vaunted policy of free trade for border guards did
little flourished on the black forest on the Rhine as a dangerous
Smuggling trade.

Was the ailing South German Customs Union strengthened by bathing access new, only then should
- as expected King Ludwig - the complete fusion of the two clubs the North and the South are
negotiated ...

A trade agreement between Bavaria and Baden remained completely hopeless as long as the two
courts have considered each other as enemies and King Ludwig's dream Badisches claims to territory
did not give up. As Grand Duke Ludwig died and his successor was immediately recognized by all powers,
as it ventured in Munich, not like before assert that died out with the accession of the High Line,
the House of UW Zähringer was. The Chapter was his alleged claim to the "reversion" of the
Baden Palatinate silently to the grave. All the more it was because, at least by a small area enlargement
to show the world that Bayern had not quite been in the wrong.

Towards the end of May 1830 Armansperg appeared in deep secrecy to Berlin and asked for good Prussia
Services.

King Friedrich Wilhelm took over the agency, in conjunction with the King of Württemberg, and
had to invite the Minister Boeckh Baden to Berlin. He hoped not only to the unfortunate Settle territorial
dispute, but also to enter the Bavarian Baden-Wuerttemberg Zollverein move. On 10 July brought
Bernstorff conciliatory persuasion finally an agreement concluded to join by virtue of which
Baden in southern Germany club promised, for both wanted Part of their inheritance rights without Sponheim.
To provide Bayern entirely satisfactory, was still a minor exchange of territory somewhere on the
eastern border of Baden reserved. This seemed the miserable trade from the world made it. Metternich
said already all Participants his congratulations, and thanked the
Prussian Minister Louis warmly ...

However, once you negotiate on
the implementation of the agreement, asked for a Bayern Increase of
about 20,000 inhabitants and set up only after much haggling its call
slightly reduced, the beautiful Wertheim primarily, the Heidelberg
Main land appeared, the romantic Chapter tempting to resist.

 Once or twice
he tried to fly, but the line caught his wing and brought him down again. When he dived, it
tangled itself around his legs and clogged the machinery; and when he tried to shout, the hook
in his throat would not let him do anything more than cough. The Dutchman got him at last,
and eventually Mahng got his widow, as you shall see.

She had her children to take care of, and for a time she was very busy, but after a few weeks
they flew away to the south, as Mahng's had done, and she was free to go where she liked and
do what she pleased. For a while she stayed where she was, like a sensible person. Minnesota
suited her very well, and she was in no hurry to leave. But, of course, she could not stay
on indefinitely, for some frosty night the lake would freeze over, and then she could neither
dive for fish nor rise upon the wing. A loon on ice is about as helpless as an oyster. And
so at last she, too, went south. She travelled by easy stages, and had a pleasant journey,
with many a stop, and many a feast in the lakes and rivers along the route. I should like to
know, just out of curiosity, how many fish found their way down her capacious gullet during
that pilgrimage through Illinois and Kentucky and Tennessee.

Well, no matter about that. The Mississippi pond was in sight, and she was just slanting down
toward the water, when a hunter fired at her from behind a clump of trees. His aim was all
too true, and she fell headlong to the ground, with a broken wing dangling helplessly at her side.

Now, as you probably know, a loon isn't built for running. There is an old story, one which
certainly has the appearance of truth, to the effect that when Nature manufactured the first
of these birds she forgot to give him any legs at all, and that he had started off on the wing
before she noticed her mistake. Then she picked up the first pair that came to hand and threw
them after him. The Edinburgh Review, however, said that English Humility
that denies itself in never praise: "The Prussian trade policies that may of any other state is superior
in the world, probably owes its origin the self-enrichment shoots of an absolute ruler. "Until
recently, hated and shunned, Prussia was now converted to the core countries of the Confederation
to a great national purpose ally. The ten years of fighting over Germany Prussian Customs Law began
already victorious penetrate, and you had to foresee that their domain to would extend to
Lake Constance. In Berlin, not in Frankfurt and Vienna, the large Business of the nation does.

Motz
had a brief diplomatic wars, with its firmly and securely managed extensive negotiations on the
creation of the Federal fridericizianischen Prince recalls not merely
the equivalent Zollverein nearly blown up, but also through spiritual
weapons the enemy beaten, demonstrated the folly of the enemy's organization
and proved to the world that Austria to the needs of the nation had
only empty words, Prussia, the healing action.

Not a random chain of events brought together the South for a short time with the North, like
the old comrades of the League of Princes. The community that was now, was indestructible. It arose
the vital needs of a working-century, and unassuming about her beginnings ruled the free spirit
of a man who almost alone in tired, listless Time now, bright eye, the slumbering giants of the
Germanic forces, recognized the great Future of the "truth in allied Germany" knew.
 But he had waded out a little
too far, and had reached the place where the bottom suddenly shelves off from fifteen inches
to seventy-two. His foot slipped, and in another moment he was splashing wildly about in the
water, and the loon was free.

A broken wing is not necessarily as serious a matter as you might suppose. The cold water kept
the inflammation down, and it seemed as if all the vital forces of her strong, healthy body
set to work at once to repair the damage. If any comparative anatomist ever gets hold of the
widow and dissects her, he will find a curious swelling in the principal bone of her left wing,
like a plumber's join in a lead pipe, and he will know what it means. It is the place where
Nature soldered the broken pieces together. And it was while Nature was engaged in this soldering
operation that Mahng arrived and began to cultivate the widow's acquaintance.

          "In the spring a fuller crimson
                      comes upon the robin's breast,"

and in the spring the loon puts on his wedding-garment, and his fancy, like the young man's,
"lightly turns to thoughts of love."

But speaking of Mahng's wedding-garment reminds me that I haven't told you about his winter
dress. His back and wings were very dark-brown, and his breast and under-parts were white.
His head and the upper portion of his neck were black; his bill was black, or blackish, and
so were his feet. His coat was very thick and warm, and his legs were feathered right down
to the heel-joint. More than five feet his wings stretched from tip to tip, and he weighed
at least twelve pounds, and would be still larger before he died.

As to his nuptial finery, its groundwork was much the same, but its trimmings were different
and were very elegant. The information gathered
Quests but it kept the fine, to disappear also to the last heel.

It rang in with the sour cherry and Zyperwein ordered sideboard. A fool's cap came to the fore
and Gocciola crawled on all fours out of his hiding place dainty. Everything was flavorful
run in his view, for he now had the full freedom sour cherry to snack and a glass to the other
to empty. He amused himself a While, until he heard steps approaching. He wanted to escape, but
a sullen look, throwing to the disturber, he considered each flight necessary. It was the monk, who returned,
and the monk was as jubilant and just as drunk as he, for the monk - "

"- Loved Antiope?" interrupted the narrator, the friend of the princes
with a pathological Laughter.

"You say, lady, he loved Antiope," echoed in Dante's tragic tone.

"Of course !"--" How different ?"--" It had to happen - so it usually goes!" It echoed the Narrator
from the whole Hoererkreis contrary.

"Calm down, young men," muttered Dante. "No, it's not usual. Do you suppose, then, with a love
of life and devotion of the soul is commonplace, and believe perhaps even to have as loved
or to love? Enttaeuschet you! Everyone is talking about ghosts but few have seen. I will bring
you a unverwerflichen witnesses. It drags here at the house of a fashionable Maerenbuch around.
This leafing with careful fingers I have found among many a true word jumble. 'Love', it says at
one point, 'is rare and usually takes a bad end. '"This was Dante
speaking seriously.

Then he scoffed: "As you are all in love so stop learning and knowledgeable and I am about this not present,
overwhelmed by the passion of a young man of my toothless mouth to let people talk, I skip
the treacherous Selbstgespraech the returning Astorre and I say briefly: Since he overheard
the thoughtful Ascanio he was shocked and preached his reason. "

"Will you at your pathetic fable maim so pitiful, my Dante?" be applied to flammable Friend
of the princes with pleading hands against the Florentines. "Let's talk to the monks, that
we experience sympathetically, as he turned away from a crude to a tenderness, a To a cold
feeling, by a stone on a beating heart - "

"Yes, Florence," the princess interrupted in, deep emotion and with a dark glowing cheeks,
"Let your monk talk that we heard with amazement how did it get that
Astorre, so inexperienced and elusiveness, he was a noble woman betrayed
for a mischievous - you have not noticed, Dante, is that Antiope a
mischievous?

You know the little women! In Truth, I tell you "- she raised her strong arm and clenched his fist
-" I too would have beaten, not the poor fool, but knowingly withheld, which at all costs The
monk wanted to bring to the face "and she led the firing in the air. others shook softly.

Cangrande which to look at the two women he now sat opposite did not
cease, admired his princess and was glad her great passion.

At this moment he found it incomparably more beautiful than the smaller and more delicate rival,
which he her had been, for the highest and lowest reaches of feeling is expressed only in a
strong body and strong in spirit.

Dante smiled his part for the first and only time that evening, as it both Women so hard on
the swings his fairy tales to sway him. He could even a tease. "Mistresses," he said, "what it requires
of me? Selbstgespraech is unreasonable. a wise man has ever spoken to yourself? "

Rose up from the shadows a wanton curls, and a precious boy who was
behind any armchair or a train might have cowered in hiding confidential
cried heartily: "Great Master, how little you know or you pretend
to know!

Know, Dante, no one chats familiar with themselves than you, to the
degree that you not only us silly boys over see them, but even that
can be sealed temporarily Schoene you without to welcome it.

"

"Really?" said Dante. "Where was that?" Where and when? "

"Well, yesterday at the Etschbruecke," smiled the boy. "You leaned against the railing. There
was the lovely Lucretia Nani over, glancing at your toga.

We followed boy, she admiringly and walked toward her two fiery warriors, for a glance from
her soft eyes haschend. But she was looking for the yours - because not everyone has a scratch
in hell gelustwandelt!

You, most viewed, a rolling wave, which in the middle of the river Adige drove up, test and
muttering something. "

"I let greet the sea. The wave was more beautiful than the girl. But back to the two goals!
Listen, they talk to each other! And for all muses, now cut me off no more, or find us at midnight
Maerchenherde.

As the monk, after he brought home Antiope, entered his room again - but I forgot to say that he did not
meet Ascanio, when that of the litter and Madonna Olympia had made it the same way. For the nephew,
after the completely Destroyed their Servants handed over, was rushed hastily to his uncle, the
tyrant him the great Process than serve up fresh pastries. He brought back Ezzelin rather have a local
history as a conspiracy.

I do not know if the monk was so well made, was called as the mocker Ascanio him. But I see
him as the proceeds of the blooming boy. by floats with winged feet
He the hall, as would carry him and took him Zephyr Iris.

His eyes are full of sun, and he murmured sounds of the language of the blessed. Gocciola, who
had swallowed a lot Zyperwein, felt likewise spirited and rejuvenated. Also under his feet broke
the marble floor in white clouds. He felt an unconquerable thirst, the murmur of the fresh
Astorre lips as you lean over to eavesdrop on a source, and began to find the same to traverse
the length of the hall, soon spread, sometimes with jumping steps the fool's scepter under his
arm.

'The tender head that presented itself for the father, has also offered
for the mother and given!

" Astorre whispered. 'The shameful! how it burned! The battered! as it was suffering! The defeated!
as it screamed! It has left me ever since it was on the block? It
lived in my mind.

It accompanied me everywhere, floating in my heart beamed in my cell, embedded on my pillow!
Was the generous head with the white, narrow Not next to the little
neck of St. Paul - '

'In St. Paul?

" chuckled the droplets.

'In St. Paul on our altar -'

'The black curly hair and a red neck on the block and the broad ax of the executioner about it?
" Gocciola performed temporarily by the Franciscans his devotion.

The monk nodded. 'I saw a long while, then shrugged the hatchet, and I trembled together. I it
is not confessed to the prior?

"

'And what did the Prior? " an examined Gocciola.

'My son,' said he, "what you saw was a child of the celestial triumph
preceded the train.

Fear not! The ambrosial little neck will be no trouble! "

'But', provoked the evil fool, 'the child has grown, so high!

" He raised his hand. Then lowered he it, and held above the ground. 'And the glory of your habit,
"he grinned,' is so deep! "

The congregation could not touch the monks. A creative fire was out of hand Antiope went into
his and started at first soft and gentle, then more hotter and sharper
to burn in his veins.

'Blessed be God the Father,' he exulted suddenly, 'the man and created
woman!

"

'The Eve? " asked the fool.

'The Antiope! " replied the monk.

'And the other? The size? What You start with? Beg you send them?
" Gocciola wiped his eyes.

'What other? " asked the monk. 'Is there a woman who would not Antiope!

"

This was even the fool too much.

He glared at Astorre frightened, but was a Faust grabbed by the collar, dragged to the door and
set on the floor. The same hand then turned on Astorre shoulder.

'Wake up, dream transformer! " Ascanio said the returnees, which the last schwaermerische had overheard
talk of the monk. He pulled the ecstatic down on a windowsill, pinned laid eyes on the eyes,
and: 'Astorre, you're mad! " he said to him. This important first the scrutiny dazzled, then he met
them with his own, yet the full of joy, were they afraid to knock down.

'You wonder? " he said then.

'As little as about the blaze of flame, "said Ascanio. 'But since you no blind Element, but
a reason and a will are, so shall the flame, otherwise it will eat you and all Padua. Do you
preach the child of the world divine and human laws? You are married! So this ring is talking
on your finger.

If you, like your first vows Now break your engagement, you break custom, duty, honor, and the
city of peace.

If you look at the arrow of God is not blind and quickly draw a hero from the heart, killed it up,
Antiope and a few others, whom it will hit straight. Astorre! Astorre! "

Ascanio wanton lips astonished about the large and serious words he in his Anguish gave them to talk.
'Your name, Astorre', he then said half jokingly, 'blares like a
tuba and calling you to fight against yourself!

"

Astorre took courage. 'It has given me a philtrum! " he exclaimed. 'I rage, I am a madman! Ascanio,
I give you power over me, Fessler me!

"

'To Diana, I will hold you captive! " Ascanio said. 'Follow me, that we find it! "

'Was not it Diana, the Antiope hit?

" asked the monk. 'You've dreamed of! You all dreamed of! You were not conversant your senses!
Come! I implore you! I commend it to you! I rise up and lead! "

When Ascanio wanted to drive out the reality, it led to the freezing step on the floor Germanos
back. With a determined face of Diana's brother went to the monk
and took his hand.

'A disturbed hard, brother! " he said. 'The nurse sent me - I lie, they do not send me. For
she has locked herself in her room, and inside they're weeping and cursed their anger - today
we drown in Weibertraenen! She loves you, they just can not bring about the lips - it's in the family:
I also can not. To did you doubt it for a moment. It is easy .- You have squandered a ring somewhere
- if it was yours, which the small Canossa - what's her name? right: the Antiope - am! Finger
was wearing. The foolish mother found him and it has spun her fairy
tales.

Antiope of course, is innocent of all this like a newborn child - who says it differently, it has
to do with me! "

'Not I! " Astorre cried. 'Antiope is pure as the sky!

The ring was from a random rolled! " and he told with flying words.

'But the sister, the supply should not you credit for it, Astorre', claimed Germano. "You shot
the blood to the head, she did not see who they had on. She thought the fool to meet the botched
her parents, and beat the poor innocent.

This must, however, before God and people are drawn back in honor and dignity. Let this be my thing,
brother! I am the brother. It's easy. "

'You talk on and on and still remain obscure, Germano!

What are you doing? How pay you are the poorest? " Ascanio said.

'It's just' repeated Germano. 'I offer my hand Antiope Canossa and make them to my wife. "

Ascanio hand to his forehead. The blow stunned him.

But when he quickly collected, looked more closely, he found the heroic means not that bad, but
he threw an anxious View of the Moench. This, of itself again conversant, stayed and maeuschenstille
listened attentively. echoed the sense of honor of the warrior like
a bright reputation in the wilderness his soul.

'So I make two birds
with one blow, brother,' said Germano. 'The girl is produced in their
establishments breed and honor. I would like to see that behind my
wife hissed! Then I make peace between you two married people. Diana
does not stretch before you have to be ashamed of himself and is thoroughly
cured of her violent temper. I tell you, it is recovered it, his life
'!

Astorre shook his hand. 'You're good! " he said. The will of his
heavenly or to overcome earthly desire bravely gained strength in
the Moench. But this will was not free, this virtue is not selfless,
because they clung to a dangerous sophism: Otherwise, than I would
embrace an unpopular, is comforted Astorre, is also Antiope by a man
can be embraced, which they quickly freed things to wrong foreign
irreversible. We all do without! Self-denial and mortification in
the world as in the convent!

'What has to happen, I do not move',
urged Germano. 'Otherwise, they would be sleepless . Wallow I do not
know, he said Diana or Antiope. 'Brother-you guide me as Witness:
I do it in the forms'.

'No, no! " Ascanio shrieked in alarm. 'Not
Astorre! Take me! "

Germano shook his head. 'Ascanio, my friend,'
said he, "you do not own you. You are not a serious witness in these
matters! Also, my brother, it does not take Astorre That can recruit
for me. It's largely their own affair. Not true Astorre? " This nodded.
'So you ready, brother. Get fancy you! Depended to you a chain around!
"

'And,' joked Ascanio forced 'when you go over the yard, his head
dip into the well! You yourself, however, Germano carriers, armored?
So warlike? Posted to the wooing? "

'I am not long gone out of armor,
and they dressed me. What are you looking at me from head to feet,
Ascanio? "

'I wonder where this Armored his safety, is not together
with the scaling ladder be thrown into the ditch? "

'This can not
be questioned, "Germano said calmly. 'Will be a shame and Defeated
a knight to refuse? Since it would be an even bigger fool than her
mother. That's clear as day, Ascanio. Come, Astorre. "

During the
remaining thoughtful with folded arms, this new turn of events, doubtful
whether the same would draw on a playground or a blooming children
Campo Santo, exceeded his childhood friends not the long road to Canossa
palace. How their pinions lashed the water, and how their legs kicked and their long
necks writhed, and how the soft mud rose in clouds and shut out the dim light! 'And the other! " she screamed, pointing to Diana, 'This
hardly out of the rough hewn large piece of marble! This botched giantess, the God Stuemperte
father, when he was a learned society and knead! Shame about the body without the clumsy Life
and soul! Who you would have also donated one? The Bastardin, her mother? the stupid Orsola? Or
the arid Knicker there? Reluctantly he gave her a meager pittance of Administered soul! "

The old Pizza Guerra remained calm. With the clear understanding of the miser, he forgot not
whom he had before him. His daughter Diana but forgot it. By the crude mockery of their Body and
soul applied outraged deep, they frowned and clenched his Hands. Now she was beside himself
as the fool their parents into the game, moved her mother abused in the grave, the father put in
the pillory. A pale rage seized and overpowered them.

'Bitch! " she screamed and beat - in Antiope's face, for the desperate and courageous Girl had
thrown herself in front of the mother. Antiope joined a sound, of the hall and all hearts shaken.

Now
the wheel is turned completely into the head of the fool.

The anger was highest among in unspeakable misery. 'You have beaten me my child! " she groaned,
fell to his knees and sobbed, 'Is there no God in heaven? "

Now the Mass was full. It would be run before, but walked the fatality faster than my mouth
is told so quickly that neither the monk nor the closely related Germano could take to stop
the upper arm and Diana. Ascanio embraced the fool, young men she took another carried away by
the feet, which was hardly bristling, in their litter raised and taken home.
 Over the hills, crowded with maple and beech and birch; over
the Great Tahquamenon Swamp, with its cranberry marshes, its tangles of spruce and cedar, and
its thin, scattered ranks of tamarack; over the sandy ridges where the pine-trees stand tall
and stately, and out on Lake Superior. The water was blue, and the sunshine was bright; the
wind was fresh and cool, and the billows rolled and tumbled as if they were alive and were
having a good time together. Together--that's the word. They were together, but Mahng was alone;
and he wasn't having a good time at all. He wanted a home, and a nest, and some young ones,
but he didn't find them that year, though he went clear to Hudson Bay, and looked everywhere
for a mate. There were loons, plenty of them, but they had already paired and set up housekeeping,
and he found no one who was in a position to halve his sorrows and double his joys.

Something attracted his attention one afternoon when he was swimming on a little lake far up
in the Canadian wilderness--a small red object that kept appearing and disappearing in a very
mysterious fashion among the bushes that lined the beach. It
could happen that our failures are required before a tribunal, where no Remorse what happened
balances. "

The Lord rose and walked to the window. His eyelids were red, his eyes darkened. Who does he really
betrayed whom he lied? His clients? The young man, he is chained to? The president? Themselves?
He did not know. He was shocked by his own words, for she seemed true. How strange, all that seemed
true to him as if he is the savior really was. He loved in these minutes and fondled his heart.
An eclipse of the Oblivion came over him, and if he was tired and disgusted to realize they were
the only had unsubstantial schemes, which sat in his place, talked to his shop and traded. He wiped
away the past twenty years from the table of his memory and was there - washed clean by a
hallucination of kindness and compassion.

Feuerbach had settled in front of his desk. His head in his hand, He looked thoughtfully into
the air. "We are the servants of our deeds, my lord," he began after long silence, and the otherwise
boisterous or shrill voice was soft and solemn Sound. "Before the bad end would tremble, every
battle to give up before they hit. Openness to openness, Count! Remember, I am here on a lost
item of the country. My life was for a different path, I believed it at least once, as be decided
in the secrecy of a circular city. I have my king services done that have been assessed and
may have contributed to its name to give the proud attribute of the righteous. I wanted to make
even greater, his people To raise the crown to make a symbol of humanity. This failed. I was
repulsed. Of course, I was rewarded, but be rewarded otherwise than as servants. "

He paused, rubbed his chin with the back and ground his teeth. Then he went on: "From early
youth I have been pledged to the law. I despise the letter, in order to refine the meaning. The
man was more important to me than the paragraph. My ambition was to directed to find the rule, the
engines of responsibility differs. I studied the vice as a botanist, the plant. The criminal's been
a subject of custody, and in his from diseased mind I weighed, what of his sins to the errors
of the state and Company accounted for. I am with the masters of the law and in the great
apostles of humanity gone into teaching, I wanted to snatch the age of barbarism and survived paths
for the future are. Needless to protest. My writings, my books, my decrees and my All the past,
that is, a chain of restless days and nights are full of work, witnesses. I never lived for me,
I hardly lived for my family and I have the pleasures of sociability, of friendship, of love devoid,
I derived no profit from conquered favor, no success gave me a break or detectable Well, I was poor,
I was poor, tolerated from above, begeifert from below, abused by the strong, outwitted by the
weak. My opponents were too strong, their views were more convenient to their unscrupulous agents,
and they were many, I am one. I am been pursued as a mangy dog; lampooner and detractors sullied my
good thing with dirt. There was a time when I could not walk through the streets of the capital,
without fear the grossest insults of the populace to have. When I, by abominable intrigue and hostilities
forced had to give up my professorship in Landshut, as one of the student mixed rabble against
me in fury had and I escaped to my home, wife and child leaving in the lurch, as I paid minions
sought to kill. It was the great war all order had broken down, by the Austrian party breaks out, that
I with the French party in the Alliance stand to the Emperor Napoleon to build a Occidental
Empire would pave the way and topple the sovereign princes, the French suspected conversely my
relations with Austria. There was a man, an official and professional colleagues, a scholar,
famous and respected - o, a cowardly poltroon, the time is his name attach to one of the Schandpfähle of
the century! -, The effrontery not to me publicly to designate as a spy, and my excuse for Protestantism,
took the king against me suspicious to make. I do not succumbed. The odds were over, my Lord
took me back to Grace, on, of course, only in grace. A new master ascended the throne, I stayed
in favor. Today I am an old man, sitting here in silence, always in grace. Even my enemies are appeased
or they are so they too are in favor. But what it means, a to see destroyed to large and the General
directed existence even before the last fiber of the spirit that she carried and nourished,
their power is consumed, not feel that the I just know. "

Feuerbach stood up and breathed deeply. He then took up the snuff-box, took a pinch, Then he turned
his face full of Stanhope, and flashed under the harsh brew a touchingly anxious and grateful
look, while he said, "Count, I am not quite clear about what moves me to speak, so to you. It
amazes me yourself you are the first to gets to hear what so desperately
similar to the complaints of a recessed and yet only the should provide
explanation for an immutable necessity.

It's me in the matter Caspar's located anything on the special of the case, and not the person
is so special it, which reinforces my decision. To me the hardest steps up pressure which a man of can make
gray hair, and forces me to the question of the fate, whether because all sacrificed Knitted and
have been in vain if it yielded me, and the DC aspirant no other fruit was there as a here
powerlessness and indifference. I have to do the test, I must perform it, come what may, I must
know whether I have spoken in the wind and written on sand; I need to know whether the promises
that we have sweetened the bitterness of my exile, only inexpensive decoy were, I must and
will know whether you mean it with me and my thing. I have evidence, Graf, unless there are
terrible evidence, three beat, I can I fixed the thunderbolt and can make the weather, everything
is from me and in a special document presented; you know it, you will not drive them to extremes,
because I am determined to extremes to protect the precious gift of God and to which I people have
an appointment as a guardian. After all, I will wait, great things need a lot Patience. Caspar
But I must not be removed. He is the living and the living weapon Witness, which I need, in ever
reach. I would lose him, it would be Foundation of my recent work there, I felt it well, it's
the last, and each claim to be heard would be unreal. And you, noble man, what do you lose? Do you
want an act of mercy or do not remember the love and justice? That would mean throwing away
gold in order get chaff. "

Stanhope's face had gradually become so livid when no more blood would flow under the skin.
He had sat down, crouched as if he wanted to hide himself, a few times were broken out of his eyes
looks like wild animals, their cages are destroyed, then he called her back, sucking it into
himself, held his breath, fumbling with the fingers on the chain lorgnettes, and when the President
at the end, he was directed to a passionate movement. He had trouble finding him, he had trouble words
found in a fierce exchange of his mouth twitched as if to laugh or a physical wanted to bite
pain, and when he took the hand of the president, it was freezing
cold, and the Doppelganger stood at his side, this shadow of the lived
body, committed, failed to and he whispered the word betrayal in his
ear, but his eyes were moist as he said: "I understand.

All I can answer is: take me as a friend, Your Excellency, consider me as your helper. Your confidence
is to me like a sign from above. But what Guarantee do you have? What guarantee that you do
not have your heart opened an unworthy, who knows how to feign just better than everyone else?
I could kidnap Caspar, I it might still - "

"If it's lying face, my lord, that you are standing in front of me, then I want it on my account
declare a pipe dream, to seek truth on earth, "interrupted Feuerbach lively. "Kidnapping, kidnap Caspar,"
he went on, laughing good-naturedly. "You're joking, I would like the advised against any man
who still considers it important to take a walk in the sunshine. "

Stanhope sank for a while in brooding motionless, then he asked, abruptly: "But what is happen?
Rapid action is required. What to do with Caspar? "

"He is here to Ansbach categorically," said Feuerbach.

"Here? To you? "

"To me, no. Unfortunately, this is impossible, impossible for many reasons. I have a lot of
alone be, I have to work much, I'm traveling a lot, my health is
shattered, my character is ill suited to the role that I would take
it, and also It prohibits the thing to make an all too personal bond.

"

Stanhope was relieved. "Where words with him," he insisted.

"I'll look for a family survey, find it good care and mental and moral Gain support, "said
the President. "I still want to speak with Ms. von Imhoff and seek their advice, she knows
the local people. Be the insured, my lord, that I will watch over the young man as about my own
child. The Nuremberg Schwaben pranks are over.

I put your marketing Caspar no bounds, does not require the Mention.

Mr. Earl, my house is your. Believe me, even under the cover of the official Judge strikes
and a receptive heart for friendship. It is in this land of Kleingeisterei not spoiled by the
handling of men. "

After they have sent to the volatile to von Tucher and the Nuremberg City Council News had
adopted the advice to Stanhope.

The president walked a long time, lost in deep thought, up and down.

From minute to minute his face was troubled and gloomy. A strange, nagging, not to be oriented Suspicion
was rising in his chest.

The more time elapsed since leaving the Count's room had, the more it grew painful sensation. He
was too shrewd judge of men to to escape certain characters who voted him concern. Suddenly
he struck his with his hand to his forehead, went to the desk and wrote in great haste three Letters:
one to Paris "to a highly placed English friend, a Bavarian of the D'affaires to London and
a third to the State Minister for Justice, Doctor of Kleinschrodt, in Munich. In those two,
he drew detailed inquiries about the person of Count Stanhope one, in the latter, he announced
his speedy arrival at the residence and requested Travel vacation.

All three letters he had to give up the hour by express mail.

Overnight will be

Stanhope had ordered the coachman to go on ahead,
and walked through the empty Streets, in which his step echoed as
in a church.

He was distraught, bruised and unable to make a reasonable consideration.

Arrived at the inn, he joined one and made a half-hour exercises fencing
with the rapier.

He stopped only when he heard a voice outside, which was negotiating with the valet, had the job,
no one vorzulassen.

Stanhope listened, he recognized the voice, nodded indifferently, and with the sword still in hand, he opened
the door. It was Hicks who entered immediately and the greeted him silently contemplative counts a little
embarrassed.

Asked about his desire, he cleared his throat and stammered a few incoherent phrases, which showed
that he knew of the visit Stanhope with Feuerbach. His manner betrayed despite an unpleasant acting
servility to a non-comprehensive cheeky confidentiality.

Stanhope related no sight of the excited man in the becoming uniform. "What had it actually mean
that you me to a meeting with the President your Help offered, "he
said coldly.

"The count can, however, have liked my help yet," said Hickel. "Who knows whether the State would
have to have without me, he knows how to entrench themselves.

The Count not deign to recognize. Oh well, "he added with a shrug,"
great men have their moods.

"

"How do you come at all to offer himself to the intermediate carrier?"

"Between carrier? The count put my innocent courtesy too much weight
at. "

"The weight you gave yourself you are too dark popular.

They indulged in some phrases, would like to have their information
I asked politely.

"Stanhope hid still under Would the stiffer uncertainty that he felt
this man over.

"I am entirely at the count services," said Hickel.

"May I ask on my part, will remember how to open the Count? "

To open "? open to whom? You? I'm open to anything. "

"The Count in me a man of absolute silence before him."

"What's that?" Went to Stanhope.

"Will you give me charades to solve?"

"It has been before the arrival of your Lordship for a trusted person look around, "Hickel
said suddenly, with icy calm.

"My long-standing relationships with excellence Feuerbach recommended me more than some modest capabilities.
"

Stanhope turned pale and looked down. "So you have direct orders," he muttered.

The lieutenant bowed. "Orders? No, "he replied hesitantly. "They assured To my good will, and
I was told to me, your lordship to be provided . Make "

It was Stan Hope felt as if he had died that day before, namely a
penitent death, and as if he now stood up to live and once and for
all his Provision was passed.

He wanted to appear by five clock with Mrs. von Imhoff for tea and asked the police lieutenant, whether
they ride a little way.

Although the question sounded a rejection of the request, took Hickel,
who had to be done about it, be related to the Lord to the offer gratitude.

The

streets were a bit busier now than at noonday, the old officials and retirees made at this time
their daily walk on the promenade. Many stood and saluted hocherlauchten against the inside of
the coach.

Now it happened that on a street corner, the man on the box again
once his bulbous Cry was sounded, it was namely the middle of the
roadway a dreamy cloud-ward guck honored Sir, who seemed to take the
approach of the count's body no notice.

Extremely frightened, he jumped aside as the Alsatians began to curse, but not fast enough that
his clothes were not soiled by the mud by the hooves of horses and
splashed the wheels.

Hicks turned his head out the window and grinned, as the Tainted stood with a puzzled and unhappy
face, held his arms from his body and looked at the mess.

"Who is the awkward man," inquired the Stanhope, which the malice of police lieutenant annoyed.

"That?
This is the Quandt, my lord. "

Owner chance, half an hour later was called by Mrs. von Imhoff, the same name. The President
and his girlfriend had agreed, after long deliberations, Caspar in the care to give the teacher
Quandt.

"He is an enlightened and educated head and enjoy as citizens and
as a general human Be careful, "said Ms. von Imhoff.

"And is he inclined to accept such a responsible job-rich" asked the Lord scattered. But it
could not inform women of Imhoff.

Stan Hope, the next morning was to report to the President, he met Mr. Quandt there themselves.
Both had apparently been agreed, for Feuerbach was very tidy, and when the Lord because of yesterday's
incident, apologized to the car at Quandt, had the President's pleasure in the embarrassment of
the teacher, which he jokes about innocent scattered thinkers and the like have increased. His laughter drove
a real sweat Quandt on end, he bowed to Stanhope as a Muslim before
the Caliph, and it seemed as if he must feel flattered that the excrement
of the count's body its small person found worthy of attention.

"Well, Quandt, do not airs," warned the president amusement, "I'll bet Your wife will have
blown the hard march and labored, the little coat clean again to get. "

"It was indeed only the casing, Your Excellency," Quandt said, smiling and with so much affability happy.

Stanhope
was measured. They were this time in the state rooms of the President, and three ceiling windows
granted to view the garden. The room was decorated comfortably, also everything from the greatest
kindness.

In a kind of recessed alcove hung a good oil painting Napoleon Bonaparte in his coronation robes, Stanhope
looked at it with ostensible interest, in Actually, he carefully examined the nature and demeanor
of the teacher.

Quandt was of medium height and slender; on the high end were tobacco-yellow hair by using
Pomade combed back quite ridiculously smooth. The eyes looked shyly, almost lost, and blinked at times,
the hook nose pierced a little boastful hidden in the air, the mouth, under humble and chewed mustache
stubble, had a sour train that's habit many nagging betrayed.

The Lord was not satisfied with the results of his observation, he asked the President to whether
the negotiations had led to the desired destination, and when he said yes, he turned at Quandt,
handed him silently thanking the rights and said he would give him the afternoon pay his visit.
Very dazed by such bounty, the teacher bowed again deep, made his compliments to the President
and left.

Stanhope also departed soon as Feuerbach had to a court session. At the hotel He spent two hours writing
a letter, and when he had finished, sent it from the hunter so. At half past one turned out, as
agreed, the police lieutenant on; they ate together and went afterwards
to Quandt.

The house of the teacher, which was at the upper gate Kronacher Buck was prepared to shine; Ello,
a fresh, pleasant young woman with rust-colored silk dress as a Wedding was done, curtsying at the
entrance, in the living room table was the cake with confectioner loaded, and the fine china
gleamed invitingly on the snow-white cloth.

The Lord was against the teacher on her father's kindness, because
she was pregnant, He wished happiness, a handshake confirmed his participation
in tender and he asked if it the first time was, the young woman was
purple, shook his head and said she had been a three-year Boys.

When coffee was served, Quandt gave her a hint, she went out quietly and The three men were
left alone.

Stanhope said he still could not find the idea of ​​separation
of Caspar, But he was enchantiert of this peaceful and orderly and
calm domesticity him immensely, knowing housed his favorite here.
Then any hope for you at last, that the unfortunate man, which has
already tried so many charlatans around the hands and body to this
and soul loss suffered, the saving port had achieved.

Quandt protesting
laid a hand on his chest.

"Yes," Hickel interfered by swallowed the
last bite of cake and mustache and wiped his lips with the back, the
"well, and it must now be even light to this Child of darkness. "

The
Lord frowned, a sign of displeasure that Hicks did not escape, and
he smiled blank in front of him, but took a threatening expression.

"Unfortunately,
yes cause for suspicion exist," continued Stanhope, and his voice
was toneless and cold, "where you can also apply and how to look at
it, all suspicion and doubt. It's no wonder that the initial inclination
is steeped in bitterness. Will I give myself the same loving feeling,
so sign up but have been calls to their Case Dimensions suspected
to be meaningless, and the slumbering embers of distrust not quench.
"

"Well then," Hicks could be heard again, "so I have it right! It
must be a clean sweep . Make We must teach the sly guy finally Mores. He was not crippled, however, for he could
still leap almost, if not quite, as far as ever, and run almost as fast.

He continued to grow and prosper, and the next summer he raised a pair of forked antlers with
two tines each.

And now he is well started down the runway of life, and we must leave him to travel by himself
for two or three years. He ranged the woods far and near, and came to know them as a man knows
his own house; but no matter what places he visited, the old haunts that his mother had shown
him were the best of all, as the deer have learned by the experience of generation after generation.
He always came back again to the Glimmerglass, and as the seasons went by I often saw his broad,
spreading hoof-print on the sandy beach where they two had so often walked in that first summer.
He evidently had plenty of company, and was probably enjoying life, for all around were other
foot-prints that were narrow and delicately pointed, as a deer's should be. Some of them, of
course, were his own, left by his three perfect feet; but others were those of his friends
and acquaintances, and it is quite possible that some of the tiniest and daintiest were made
by his children.

That beach is a delightful place for a promenade on a summer night, and besides the deer-tracks
one can sometimes find there the trails of the waddling porcupines, the broad, heavy print
left by a black bear as he goes shambling by, and the handwriting of many another of the woods-people.
Strange and interesting scenes must often be enacted on the smooth, hard sand that lies between
the woods and the water, and it is a pity that the show always comes to a sudden close if any
would-be spectators appear, and that we never see anything but the foot-prints of the performers. February 1756, died 21st February
      1821, 1816 Hannöver. Federal Minister.

   
      Aug. 21 Count Fried. Ferd. Goltz, born 20 July 1765, died 17th January
      1832, Prussian ambassador from 1816 to 1824 the Bundestag, after
Marshal of the Court.

   
      
      22 Wilh. Ludw. Leop.

   Reinhard Freiherr von Berstett, born 1769, died 6th February 1837, 1816
      Baden envoy Bundestag, from 1817 to 1831 Baden Minister of Foreign Affairs.

Klemens
      von Metternich Prince 23, born 15th May 1773, died 11th
      June 1859, Austrian Minister since 1809, since May 1821 to 13th March
1848 Chancellor, is key for the reaction in Austria and Germany.

   
      
      24 Karl Friedrich Nebenius, born 29 September 1785, died on 8 June
1857, authors of the Bill of Baden of 22 August 1818 and twice Minister
of the Interior.

   
      
      25 David Ricardo, born 19 April 1778, died 11th September 1823, Engl.
      Economist who as a student of the doctrine of Adam Smith Free trade
      was of publishing. His thoughts on the relationship between production
      costs of goods and the selling price and the Relationship between
job performance and wages are of Marx and Lassalle been developed.

   
      
      26 Wilh.

   Anton v. Klewiz, born 1 August 1760, died 26th July 1838, from 1817-1824
      Prussian Minister of Finance from 1824-1837 First President the
      province of Saxony.
      

   27 Karl Freiherr von Stein to the Old Stone, born 7th October 1770, died
      14.

   May 1840, since 1817 Minister of spiritual teaching and Medicine Alan
      opportunities reorganizer of the Prussian population and higher
      education.
      

   28 Friedrich Leopold von Kircheisen, born 24 June 1746, died 18th March
      1825 of 1810 from the Prussian Minister of Justice.
      

   29 Ludwig Freiherr von Spittler, born 10th November 1752, died 14th March
      1810, was in 1779 as professor of philosophy at Göttingen appointed
      in 1806 appointed minister in Württemberg and curator the
      University of Tübingen.
      
      30 Friedrich Ernst Daniel Schleiermacher, born on 21 November 1768,
died 12.

February 1834, preacher at the Trinity Church and Berlin Professor
at the University.

31 Fried. Christian. Adolf von Motz, born 18 November 1775, died 30th June 1830, originally in
the service of the King of Westphalia act occurred over after the fall of Napoleon the Prussian service.
1817 in President of the Government appointed Erfurt, he was in 1821 Temporarily, 1824 definitely
upper-President of Saxony, 1825 Go. Heads of State and Minister of Finance.

3. The struggle for the Prussian Customs Law of the Vienna conferences.

When Hardenberg his instructions (for the appointed Minister to Vienna Conference) to Bernstorff
(32) granted, he sharpened it again one, that a federal customs in the present state of the German states
was impossible. Then he repeated it word for word what he simultaneously the envoys of the List's
trade association said, and publish by the State Journal was: "One, therefore, the only thing
attributed to the fact that individual states, which by the current
state believe complains with those federal members, where after their
Opinion, the Board will seek to unite, and that such matching arrangements
be passed from border to border on, which have the purpose of the
internal partitions to have more and more covered.

"Thus the trade policy program of the government preußißschen again very clear and unambiguous.
By clinging to their customs laws, said they are prepared to other states through the customs union
or free contract trade facilitation to grant, but she saw one - and therein lay her superiority
- that all complaints against the internal tolls remained idle talk, as long as the German states on a common
Customs Act some could not.

Bernstorff was taken to a lively opposition from the outset, he knew well how incomprehensible
these sober trade ideas that are now all familiar with the great majority German courts have been released.
The passionate outburst "hateful prejudices," the experience he had in Vienna exceeded, but
his worst expectations. The naive economic Ignorance of the Epoch celebrated their Saturnalia
at the conferences, almost the entire German Diplomacy were up in arms against the Prussian
customs law. Once the questions of trade, the Conversation turned to the position of the parties
shifted completely. The Prussian Agents, of almost all other issues, the majority of the Assembly
moved to be standing in the trade Deliberations as isolated as in the military, he seemed like
the troublemaker of the German unity.

The same courts that everywhere else the province of the Federal anxious sought to restrict
hoped, by an illegal decision that federal blessing Reform, which had given Germany the Prussian
freedom of movement to overthrow again. From mouth to mouth was the sophistic claim that the
Prussian law against the contrary Article 19 of the Federal Act, which contained nothing more
than the promise that the federal due of trade and commerce should "enter into consultation.

Prussia's evil genius, so let yourself be heard well-intentioned, has the unfortunate Act created
the trust and forfeited all his affection, it will one day Prussia still regret it! Strangely enough,
the attacks of the indignant German champion of free trade directed exclusively against Prussia,
although other states of the same Were guilty of sacrilege. Bayern had just (22 July 1819),
as Prussia, a new Customs Law proclaimed, but no one strove against it. Fully loaded, the Austrian
prohibitive not only all goods much harder than the Prussian law prohibiting even some German Products
entirely, including the Franks and Rhine wines. None of the German ministers took offense at
it. Metternich to Berstett said abruptly: "I consider it even Austria not entangled in the
issue of trade, "and the state of Baden man took this statement without Opposition for granted
back. Thus was precisely because of the passionate zeal the little ones shown were chained
as determine their interests with Prussia, as loose with Austria. Some of the small Ministers
expressed the idea of ​​federal duties: so Fritsch (33), where his Grand Duke had given orders
to demand the transfer of customs lines to the federal limit, Berstett, who remained still believe,
by the proclamation of general movement the federal government will assuage the discontent of the
most secure nation. Others wanted only the marketing of German products can be free, and as
little as they knew that the provide means to execute its plan: to foreign countries, said
Berstett comfortable, Let each state arrange its tariffs at will, enough, if in the interior of Germany
the tolls fell away. These honest enthusiasts were joined by some allies, their hidden agendas
concealed hardly unfair. The Duke of Coburg (34) appeared even in Vienna, through its veto
to thwart the completion of the federal military organization, if it not unlimited traffic would
be granted freedom, but because the conference, the Federal Military Law not the pure, brought
shame to so fine was the plan. Even bolder was Marschall (35) on.

The scented with the instinct of hatred that the new customs legislation, the work of "Demagogic subalterns"
in the Berlin bureau, the Prussian state, perhaps one day hegemony in the north could provide,
through their destruction, he also thought that State of calamity to humiliate and crush the serpent
of the Revolution's head.

Similar sentiments harbored the Kassel court, which already, without an understanding with the
neighboring state even trying, had opened the tariff war against Prussia. A law of 17 September 1819,
the import and transit of many Prussian goods banned or with severe Duties assigned. The added amount
of the increased taxes should be used for the good of the Hessian Traders, who had brought the Prussian
customs law to beggary - a promise Elector of the greedy (36) of course, never redeemed. In Berlin,
it was thought at first to retaliatory measures. The king held strictly to the promise that the Prussian
duties primarily should take the goods out of Germany, and was hostile steps against German
States if possible be avoided. Also a report from the Finance Ministry came to the conclusion
retaliatory measures were for the Hessian Hesse extremely harmful, dangerous to Prussia, so "Only
for form's sake" to fight. The Minister said in Kassel in confidence in this sense against the
Elector of. Meanwhile, Prussia was the Cologne-Berlin Art Street
on Höxter and Paderborn, extend to circumvention of the Hesse region.

The traffic of the North East with the South pulled away from Hanau to Würzburg, the Hessian roads
began to become desolate. The elector had to reduce its combat duties again and waited now
so impatient to a federal decision that would destroy the customs lines of unassailable neighbors.

Among
the opponents of Prussia but saw no one so ancient coarse language lead to as the Duke Ferdinand
of Köthen, a vain, trifling man, who in 1806 due to proven inability of the Prussian military service
had to leave and now personally hurried to the Danube to prevent "the media coverage of the ancient
House of Anhalt." The real Mistress of his little territory was his wife Julia, nee Countess
of Brandenburg, half-sister King of Prussia, a lady of intellect and culture, immensely proud of
their royal Would catholicizing the teachings of the romantic school devoted zeal. As Metternich appreciate
value of such ally well knew, he had Adam Müller (37) to conduct next to the Leipzig Consulate
and the office of the Austrian Charge d'Affaires at the Anhalt to hold courts, and the celebrated
writer of the ultra-montane party was the romantic Duchess soon is an essential reference. Müller hated
his Prussian homeland with the whole Wrath of the convert. His inventive mind sprang the plan on
a big crook pieces small princely state of art, pierce the Prussian customs legislation from the
inside out and should at least make it impossible for the province of Saxony. The country has
some Köthensche Hours by flowing far from the Elbe, and Elbe rivers was one of the conventional,
those of the Congress of Vienna, the "perfect freedom of navigation had promised." What a brilliant
prospect opened, therefore, the position of power Köthe, if the conference is could move, the
freedom of the same immediately and unconditionally implement because of the Covenant! Then was
the Duke, although his country was surrounded by Prussian territory, separate European trade
policy begin, he could abuse the freedom of Elbschiffahrt, to open up in the heart of the
Prussian state to the black market a large sanctuary, to flood the hated neighbor in smuggled
goods, and maybe for him to force change in its tariff system. Eagerly the little man went to this
friendly and neighborly Thoughts on; scruples touched him, and the difference between power and
powerlessness He could not understand. The repeated invitations to volunteers benevolent Following
the Prussian customs system had cleared all gruff, vulgar in that screaming tone that all documents
of this court was mean. "Anhalt - he explained proud - his life searching only in the general
European international club States and the resources which it presents its geographical location at high
currents. "

More or less zealously, the majority of other agents complained against the selfishness the state, standing
alone the ideal of German unity in the trade routes. Only the Hanseatic cities, satisfied with its
cosmopolitan trading statement showed any attempt common German Trade policy back cool. Also
Zentner (38) distinguished himself again through judicious prudence off, the formless dream
image of a general movement, the conditions still No one knew, he would not sacrifice the
new Bavarian customs law. Metternich, however, was noise with ill-concealed glee, the little
ones against Prussia. Masterfully understood the Viennese court, the fear of Prussian ambition,
all the small states in the limbs was, depending on the circumstances for the purpose of exploiting
it. In October, Graf Bombelles (39) express order of Emperor Franz the Grand Duke of Weimar
(40) threatened: when the Carlsbad Decrees not always strictly execute, then should the two
great powers of the League withdrawn and then the emperor would feel the need to his Prussian allies
to provide "an enhanced position in Germany." Metternich used as safe now the jealousy of the little
ones to fight Prussia's trade policy. Of course, could he dare not to support the opponents
of his indispensable ally open, especially since he himself in the Austrian customs did not want
to change the least. Under the Hand, however, he encouraged the angry and whispered to them,
was the Prussian Customs Law the work of a party whose purpose "with" faithful Federal sense,
having nothing in common. As trade Counselor, he had the author of Anhalt smuggling plans, Adam Muller,
after Vienna can come.

The nation was on the problem of the customs union came into the clear yet, nor how their Statesmen.
From the political outcome of the conferences they expected, according to the Karlsbad Experience,
no rants, just the lifting of internal tolls and especially of the Prussian Customs lines appeared
to all parties as a humble wish that at some good will governments could be easily fulfilled.
A pamphlet "Candid words of a German from facts, "said with sharp words, which almost all non-Prussia,
the Berlin Trade policy thinking. The apparently well-meaning authors, it was defamatory in that
the areas enclosed by the Prussian State as enclaves call, and absolutely illegal, Prussia rise
of "foreign" taxes, the criminal court of public opinion had the Cause "of truth and justice" inevitably
help to victory.

As a spokesman of the merchants and tradesmen, F. List and his followers took J. J. Quick and
E. Weber at the conferences, and submitted a memorandum to their high-spirited patriotic pathos amidst
the particularist narrow-minded political interests of the Vienna Assembly appeared totally unknown.
With the unity of the nation - he led in eloquent words from - the complete independence of
the states is not compatible, and the federal government must the 30 million Germans, the
blessings of freedom to create, and therefore in reality a Federation are the Germans. And
what was the practical proposal that these enthusiastic words followed? List requested that lease
the German states their duties to a joint stock company should, and was confident of placing the shares,
that company would German Federal Customs justify and remove all the governments concerned about
annoying details! Strangely however, in which sweet illusions of the fiery patriot einwiegte. He claimed
Prussia was inclined to give up its customs law, though he had just one official from Berlin the opposite
was insured. He looked from the Vienna police with suspicion and wrote in the home: "We are surrounded
on all sides to spies, quartered with a spy, operated by a spy, "and he knew that Metternich
had said in the conference, with the Individuals who each spent for the representatives of the German
trade status, one could engage in any negotiations because of the German Bundestag already
trade association was sentenced as an unlawful and illegal businesses. All misled him not
moving in its optimism. So when did Adam Müller a memorandum on German Lists Industrial exhibitions
reviewed favorably and Kaiser Franz in audience the sturdy Agitator assured that his government
would like to promote the welfare of the German fatherland, because he thought he almost reached the
goal: "All eyes are now on the Austrian Imperial Government directed. What would not the Emperor of Austria
noble man friendly the German-speaking peoples join again if they so much benefit from his hands
would be, "When even the illusion vanished, he threw his hopes on the South German courts and said
that his case had obtained only by the delay. Thus, clung to the noble Patriot at straws, and
only the Prussian customs law that one day the cornerstone of our economic entity should be,
it seemed like the entire nation, as the source of destruction.

At the conference, opened the fight by Marshal a memorandum of 8 January, which the Prussian
state with such gross denigration heaped that Bernstorff they returned to the author. The new
customs facilities, it said since the property rights of hundreds
of thousands would attack, reduces the property and possessions.

Then called the Nassau confidently: Repeal all since 1814, recently introduced tolls and immediate
compliance with the decisions Congress of Vienna, river transport, the other full liberty for every
German State tariffs against foreign countries arbitrarily be fixed if he does not only internal
tolls constructed. That the latter proposal contained a crude contradiction that no single State could
protect themselves against foreign countries, when his German borders were unguarded - This
was the palpable truth Nassau statesman quite escaped, he said, of the Colors, as the blind
because his little country had no border tariffs.
 Both of them were pretty well used up; and
one was so weak that he could hardly stand, and could only walk by leaning heavily on the head
and antlers of the other, who supported him because he was obliged to, and not out of friendliness.
They were within a few rods of the beach when he whose strength was least stepped into a hole
and fell, and his leg-bone snapped like a dry twig. He struggled and tried to rise; but his
story was told, and before morning he was dead. For once our Buck's instinct of self-preservation
had carried him too far. He had taken all the food for himself, and had starved his enemy;
and now he was bound face to face to a corpse.

Well, we won't talk about that. He stayed there twenty-four hours, and there would soon have
been two dead bucks instead of one if something had not happened which he did not in the least
expect--something which seemed like a blessed miracle, yet which was really the simplest and
most natural thing in the world. A buck has no fixed time for the casting of his antlers. It
usually occurs during the first half of the winter, but it has been known to take place as
early as November and as late as April. The second night passed, and as it began to grow light
again our friend lifted himself on his knees and his hind-legs, and wrestled mightily with
his horrible bed-fellow; and suddenly his left antler came loose from his head. The right one
was still fast, but it was easily disengaged from the tangle of branching horns, and in a moment
he stood erect. The blood was running down his face from the pedicel where the antler had stood,
and he was so weak and dizzy that his legs could hardly carry him, and so thin and wasted that
he seemed the mere shadow of his former self. They decided to redeem their pledged word finally and agreed
to negotiations. On 17 July 1828, after nine years of smuggling delights Dessau and Köthen were at
the Prussian customs system. Both rulers were sorry in emotional Manifest to have to burden their beloved
subjects so difficult Köthener relied to "unavoidable circumstances", the sincere Dessauer -
with that cynical comfort, to the small German princes will not be blamed - "to" the interests
of his chamber budget. All these Enklavenverträge granted the small farms to a metered number of
people Share of the produce of the Prussian import and export duties, also have all sorts of
political rights - The national emblem alongside the Prussian for the customs offices and what
was more of the Vanities - But certainly no part in the customs legislation. Only Dessau and
Köthen reserved their the right of the opposition before, if the principles and fundamentals
changed the Customs Act would - a phrase that meant, fortunately, nothing. Similarly, the clause
was harmless, Bernburg Dessau and that should only join for six years. Motz and Eichhorn knew
well, how little was thinking of a re-exit, so we indulged the young can be collected Aware
that they were not subjected to an eternity. In fact began in the Anhalt countries of honest labor
to flourish again, and soon everyone felt that natural order of things is produced.

Even as these Anhalt Handel hovered suddenly opened for Prussia take
a view, even larger German states in its customs community.

Taught by the depressing experiences of the Vienna Conference, had the court of Berlin during
the last few years left to wait, whether moving the plight of Finance one of the Middle States
would volunteer to join the Prussian customs system. Such a policy granted also the advantage
that Prussia was spared from the many customs union plans, which same fog forms, rapidly formed
and rapidly dissolving, appeared on the small farms approached and often also to the Prussian
ambassador. Frivolous was forging plans always been the prerogative of powerlessness. A state
that represented a great national idea was allowed to involved with the Mückenseigerei Nassau
and Meiningen Staatsdilettanten not. A single inch of Prussia hastily completed contract, which
did not pass the test and again dissolved, would the courts as the nation completely quenched
and the Prussian Trade policy paralyzed for years. Only by overcoming a means State, arrogance
and suspicion, turned himself in Berlin positive overtures, but then let himself believe that
he carried important interests will be determined and a permanent federal government was possible.
 And so
one day he had another battle with another buck, while another doe--or perhaps the same one--made
off through the trees and left a fragrant trail behind her. We have all forgotten how a man should wear his head. Knuckle under, the have
we learned from what we understand from the ground. But I will not knuckle under. "

! "Hush," interrupted him brusquely Hickel, "we have the, it smacks
of demagoguery.

Share You'd rather, has the Hauser noted the brochure?
"Not that I know of," said Quandt. "But it will not be necessary
to ensure that he becomes experiences, there are foolish enough to
be a pleasure out of it. 

Only in December 1832, the conferences began with the Thuringia. The Prussian statesmen proposed
to form a central authority for the Thuringian customs. Consternation; none of the kids wanted
to admit such a limitation of sovereignty. As argued the Prussians soothingly: it would suffice
to establish an inspector general, who must of course live in Erfurt, as the center of the country,
but he should not of Prussia, but appointed by the Thuringian main power Weimar.
 With the opening of the hunting season those
farmers from lower Michigan came again, and day after day they beat the woods in search of
game. Eradicate an evil, if it has
not eaten too deep, just a question of energy and care. But I seems, I think, meditate on the
teacher in his quiet sense, there are still quite other hidden things that men do not talk away
from the liver.

And so he met probably the right thing, as it should prove to be soon. He developed the polite
Lord listening his views on morality, on the circulation of people, dealing with Students who
need the encouragement, the value of the censor, all a bit awkward and legal language, but
simple, amazingly simple, only the anxious face was a Semblance of difficulty and philosophy.
The Lord nodded a few times with the head, while Hickel strong signs of impatience were of itself.
Then when leaving, while Stanhope said goodbye to the woman, pulled the teacher aside Hickel and
whispered: "Let Do not blow off like that by the speeches of the count, rather Quandt. The
good Count deceives himself and does not want the sun to recognize this clear. The devil takes
history separate him forth. She make a huge service if you expose the fraud. "

That was the mark-word and the stop. It contained the core of the plot. Well, Caspar shalt you
go to a small town and in a small house to live in seclusion, and the walls of the world should
become narrower until they are back to prison. Violence has List of brotherhood, the judge will
judge what he sees, and does not know what he feels. Shalt thou be low, so the friends turn
into enemies, and your loneliness easier prey to the pursuer was. The blood is to testify against
himself, light is corruptible to be more fruit will not grow, the voice of the sky to fall
silent, and the Night - as night will be - will not follow morning.

A chapter in letters

Freiherr von Tucher to Lord Stanhope:

For some
time I am without news of your glory. When he went home he bragged that he was the only one of the party who had killed
a deer, but he never told just how the thing was done.

That is the kind of fate that you are very likely to meet if you are a deer. 

[2] The witch trials, the floor lord with few exceptions, many after the Reformation and Hauptsa ͤ in Protestant
northern Germany GEFU ͤ were carried to which a belief in the influence of these bo ͤ Spirits
reason was that Luther, in melancholy Anfa ͤ cases often even with the Personal perso ͤ it appears
devil struggling, had only too much leads gena ͤ this have Witch Trials Germany in the 17th century,
perhaps more people dead, as Spain, the Inquisition.

[3] Reineke de Vos is holla ͤ ndisches and French ͤ Saxon descent, although the Ma ͤ Hrchen of
fox and other animals Originally ͤ ACCESSIBLE so much in Germany than in France exuberance
went.

The Low German translation seems to be never been popular book, though she is very successful; ko nnte
ͤ you call it the swan song of this language.

[4], I wanted to this, as I said, natural raw image of a more raised
the play of imagination ͤ stiffnecked adding or ͤ gene, so I compared
the mere reading and writing instruction in our country children with
the unreasonableness and folly of an Ackermann, who his field the
tools for editing, Spade and plow, for self-editing throws.

[5] What ko ͤ me, could I lead anfu ͤ I wanted from the lowest group of northern German cities Sta
ͤ Speaking, as the Hamburg Po ͤ bel in brandy and unclean Low German
wa ͤ LZT.

       [6] Where you going, someone asked a Mecklenburg scholars, who just
on the stage-coach increased.

The answer was: Well, Rostock, want ik op de tillers Wed sciences.

                  [7] Less Spa ͤ SSE.

[8] But it is not pure, but with Friesian multiword
Where ͤ intermingled.

* * * * *

By the same author are published
by us:

Wienbarg, Dr. L., Holland in 1831 and 32, 2 vols Probably he would not have done it himself
if he had not been half crazy with rage and excitement, and much emboldened by his easy victory
over the hound. He put his head down and his antlers forward, and charged on a man! If King Friedrich
Wilhelm tried to lure invite any German state and, yet, least of all this court of Saxony, who
as founder of the Central German club so vicious hatred had worn for show. The Prussian Consul Baum
received a severe reprimand, as he early 1830 a pamphlet on the need for a Saxon-Prussian Customs
Federal wrote and distributed in Saxony.

By the fall of the old system, the Saxon government takes the detours and artifices, according to
the old habit of the middle states. She asked in Stuttgart and Munich, whether Saxony could not
join the South German club. Her Berlin Affaires Konneritz taught Ancillon at the request of Prussia
should immediately reduce its tariff to Saxony's favor, as negotiations on the direct connection
would be suspended for the present one yet. Maassen answered (September 15, 1830), "without
a previous association with each other to facilitating trade, "we can in the order of our tariff to
third countries not paying attention.

Only the Ministry Lindenau found the courage to admit what could be palpable: that Saxony had
to go without industriousness Prussia friendship, but took the whole Overseas export of the
country their way through Prussia, as are almost all import of raw cotton. Unfortunately, only
part of the manufacturers in the mountains, the connection was favorable, Leipzig and especially
the country people lamented about the encroaching doom. So has even the ever-patriotic and insightful
trading prior brave splices Jakarta, later as the merchants of Frankfurt, Bremen, Hamburg,
the unpleasant truth confirmed, that the party concerned is expertly almost never. Even the great
merchant is to the grocer, his face circle narrows when he imagines his immediate benefit threatened,
proud on his personal power and freedom, he sees it as a presumption, an injury when the men
of the green table, expect him to change his comfort zone of business forms, and does not want
to admit that large trade issues not the private sector intuition to decide the merchant, but
the state Court of economic statesman added. Despite all this, the government decided against year-end
to that first question in Berlin. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs replied (24
 He heard one horrified
shout from the hunter, but nothing from the photographer--and the woods were silent again.

That was the end of the hunting season at the Glimmerglass. So what? Do you think that
this is a novelty for me? You do not get riled about it? The old man writes because that is his
business. The sooner you can wean a hen laying eggs as a born scribbler to write. "

Quandt took a deep breath. The restless X traveled by a Prussian embassy to another, tried to apologize:
for who would have guessed a year ago, that in Prussia the Eastern Question and play in customs
matters, such a role would be happy? The Buck had reached his prime, but you
are not to suppose that he began to age immediately afterward. It
is quite authentic. The emperor has called out to me with cheerful laughing mouth, as we together
in the face of Tempeltruemmer Enna ridden through those bristling Aehrenfelder, blessed by what the
goddess Ceres Sicilian soil. Then I remember with same clarity that shines over that summer
day on the island. I am not, the merry jest that had informed the pontiff. I'm much too seriously.
Who did it? I'll do as judges, young men. We rode three, and the third - also its I am certain,
as this illuminating Sonne' - they just threw a beam through the foliage -'war Peter de Vinea,
the lovebirds of the emperor.
 It was orginally split over two lines. (woods.
And wherever)

