That morning, as usual, the men called for their liquor, and among them was a long lanky fellow
with red hair and bushy beard. He certainly had the appearance of an outlaw. He had received
one glass of grog and came for the second which I refused him. Without a word I was on my back.
At that point the German came in and caught him with the left hand in the same locality. Suffering
with pain and crazed with liquor, he left the store, secured his revolvers and returned. I
was behind the counter at the time with my back to the door. The first thing I knew I heard
the report of a revolver and a bullet whizzed past my ear and buried itself in a can of tomatoes
not six inches from my head. As I turned around, I saw the fellow being propelled through the
door by the German's right. At that point the contractor came in and after being told of what
had happened, he discharged the fellow. He wished to retain his revolvers, but his request
was not granted. He had an old-fashioned army musket and begged to be allowed to keep that.
I told Mr. A---- not to let him have it for I was satisfied from the blow he gave me that he
was a bad actor; but Mr. A----, being good natured and kind hearted, consented. He ordered
four days' rations put up for him and he left camp in an ugly mood and was given no further
thought.

After grub, the German proposed that we flip a coin to see who should go for the horses. The
visitor losing, he at once started for the canyon below where the horses were grazing. Shortly
after I heard a shot and then many more, but gave it no heed as it was a common occurrence
there. Half an hour later one of the men came in and told me that the German lay dead in the
canyon below. I, with the others in camp, proceeded to the point indicated, where we found
the poor fellow lying on his back. A bullet from that villian's musket had pierced his heart.
His watch, belt of cartridges, revolvers, and repeating carbine were gone. After we returned
with the body, Mr. A---- had the mill whistle blown calling all hands to quarters and for three
days and nights with little sleep or rest we searched those hills and trails leading to Salt
Lake and Denver. "It was inevitable that from that day our intimacy can dwindle to dissolution (though
same causes anticipated this natural cavity), but We no retentive found autoeroticism a dry and
wearisome formula. In my novitiate I was disheartened to find how long it took me picketed to dissociate
myself from the contemplative and to detach myself to the plural hills
of anima-gratification.

But I far found myself committed to the repetition of the act three
times a day. With uncovered heads we lowered him in earth,
in a rough box, at the foot of one of the tall sentinels of the hills, and placed a slab to
mark the spot, that his friends might some day claim all that remained of as brave and honest
a German as ever lived.

A WATCHFUL PROVIDENCE

Thus by the toss of a coin was my life again spared. This last narrow escape from death was
the fourteenth of which I positively knew, and how many more that I did not know of, it is
impossible to tell; so I made up my mind to get out of the country alive, if possible. I informed
Mr. A---- of my intentions and the following day closed my business and at dusk that evening
I started, unaccompanied, on a two hundred mile ride over a trail watched by hundreds of blood-thirsty
Indians. I knew that no Indian pony could overtake my fleet runner, and all that was to be
feared was a surprise or have my horse shot from under me. I camped far from the trail, with
lariat fastened to my wrist, never closing my eyes until my faithful animal had laid down for
the day. His first move at dusk awoke me, and, after feed, we were off with the wind at breakneck
speed.

At the close of the second day, while I lay sleeping on the desert sands with the saddle blanket
for a pillow, and dreaming of my far away home, it seemed as if something of a slimy nature
was slowly crawling over the calf of my bare leg. On gaining partial consciousness, too quickly
did I realize that it was a reality and not a dream. A rattlesnake's long slimy body was crossing
that bridge of flesh, squirming along for a couple of inches, then raising its repulsive body
a foot or more and turning its insignificant head, would look straight towards my partly closed
eyes and, with its hideous mouth agap, would dart its poisonous arrow-like tongue in and out
like lightning, then lowering itself, it would resume the same tactics as before. How many
times it repeated this, I shall never know. No words have ever been formed that can adequately
express the feeling that took possession of me. I seemed powerless to move a muscle or twitch
an eye-lid. The suspense was terrible, expecting each time that the slimy body descended the
viper would thrust his poisonous lance into my leg and all would be over. The horror of it
all cannot be imagined, and to this day, when I recall the incident, it sends a shiver through
my entire body. As the coarse rattles of his tail left the bare flesh of my leg, my senses
seemed to return; but it was only for a moment, for through the pant of my right leg I felt
that same crawling sensation and I knew in an instant that it was a mate following the one
that had just passed over the bridge of flesh. As soon as it reached the bare leg the dirty
reptile went through the same horrible stunts as the first one. The agony seemed impossible
to bear and when at last the thing had completed its journey and was at a safe distance away,
I leaped into the air--how far I shall leave the reader to surmise. Crazed with anger and trembling
from head to foot, I rushed for my revolvers and fired at random. I was considered a good shot
in those days, but in this excited condition I would not have been able to hit a barn. I ran
for my Henry Carbine and, grasping it by the barrel, made short work of ridding the earth of
the cause that had produced the most terrifying scare experience during my western life.

THE FAITHFUL HORSE

