AN INQUIRY INTO

THE NATURE OF PEACE

AND

THE TERMS OF ITS PERPETUATION

BY

THORSTEIN VEBLEN

New York B.W. HUEBSCH 1919

All rights reserved

COPYRIGHT, 1917. BY THE MACMILLAN COMPANY.

Published April, 1917: Reprinted August, 1917.

New edition published by B.W. HUEBSCH. January, 1919.

PREFACE

It is now some 122 years since Kant wrote the essay, Zum ewigen Frieden. Many things have happened
since then, although the Peace to which he looked forward with a doubtful hope has not been
among them. But many things have happened which the great critical philosopher, and no less
critical spectator of human events, would have seen with interest. To Kant the quest of an
enduring peace presented itself as an intrinsic human duty, rather than as a promising enterprise.
Yet through all his analysis of its premises and of the terms on which it may be realised there
runs a tenacious persuasion that, in the end, the régime of peace at large will be installed.
Not as a deliberate achievement of human wisdom, so much as a work of Nature the Designer of
things--Natura daedala rerum.

To any attentive reader of Kant's memorable essay it will be apparent that the title of the
following inquiry--On the nature of peace and the terms of its perpetuation--is a descriptive
translation of the caption under which he wrote. That such should be the case will not, it
is hoped, be accounted either an unseemly presumption or an undue inclination to work under
a borrowed light. The aim and compass of any disinterested inquiry in these premises is still
the same as it was in Kant's time; such, indeed, as he in great part made it,--viz., a systematic
knowledge of things as they are. Nor is the light of Kant's leading to be dispensed with as
touches the ways and means of systematic knowledge, wherever the human realities are in question.

Meantime, many things have also changed since the date of Kant's essay. Among other changes
are those that affect the direction of inquiry and the terms of systematic formulation. Natura
daedala rerum is no longer allowed to go on her own recognizances, without divulging the ways
and means of her workmanship. And it is such a line of extension that is here attempted, into
a field of inquiry which in Kant's time still lay over the horizon of the future.

The quest of perpetual peace at large is no less a paramount and intrinsic human duty today
than it was, nor is it at all certain that its final accomplishment is nearer. But the question
of its pursuit and of the conditions to be met in seeking this goal lies in a different shape
today; and it is this question that concerns the inquiry which is here undertaken,--What are
the terms on which peace at large may hopefully be installed and maintained? What, if anything,
is there in the present situation that visibly makes for a realisation of these necessary terms
within the calculable future? And what are the consequences presumably due to follow in the
nearer future from the installation of such a peace at large? And the answer to these questions
is here sought not in terms of what ought dutifully to be done toward the desired consummation,
but rather in terms of those known factors of human behaviour that can be shown by analysis
of experience to control the conduct of nations in conjunctures of this kind.

February 1917

CONTENTS

CHAPTER I

INTRODUCTORY: ON THE STATE AND ITS RELATION TO WAR AND PEACE                              
1

The inquiry is not concerned with the intrinsic merits of peace or war, 2.

--But with the nature, causes and consequences of the preconceptions favoring peace or war, 3.

--A breach of the peace is an act of the government, or State, 3.

--Patriotism is indispensable to furtherance of warlike enterprise, 4.

--All the peoples of Christendom are sufficiently patriotic, 6.

--Peace established by the State, an armistice--the State is an instrumentality for making
peace, not for perpetuating it, 7.

--The governmental establishments and their powers in all the Christian nations are derived
from the feudal establishments of the Middle Ages, 9.

--Still retain the right of coercively controlling the actions of their citizens, 11.

--Contrast of Icelandic Commonwealth, 12.

--The statecraft of the past half century has been one of competitive preparedness, 14.

--Prussianised Germany has forced the pace in this competitive preparedness, 20.

--An avowedly predatory enterprise no longer meets with approval, 21.

--When a warlike enterprise has been entered upon, it will have the support of popular sentiment
even if it is an aggressive war, 22.

--The moral indignation of both parties to the quarrel is to be taken for granted, 23.

--The spiritual forces of any Christian nation may be mobilised for war by either of two pleas:
(1) The preservation or furtherance of the community's material interests, real or fancied,
and (2) vindication of the National Honour; as perhaps also perpetuation of the national "Culture,"
23.

CHAPTER II

ON THE NATURE AND USES OF PATRIOTISM                                31

The nature of Patriotism, 31.

--Is a spirit of Emulation, 33.

--Must seem moral, if only to a biased populace, 33.

--The common man is sufficiently patriotic but is hampered with a sense of right and honest
dealing, 38.

--Patriotism is at cross purposes with modern life, 38.

--Is an hereditary trait? 41.

--Variety of racial stocks in Europe, 43.

--Patriotism a ubiquitous trait, 43.

--Patriotism disserviceable, yet men hold to it, 46.

--Cultural evolution of Europeans, 48.

--Growth of a sense of group solidarity, 49.

--Material interests of group falling into abeyance as class divisions have grown up, until
prestige remains virtually the sole community interest, 51.

--Based upon warlike prowess, physical magnitude and pecuniary traffic of country, 54.

--Interests of the master class are at cross purposes with the fortunes of the common man, 57.

--Value of superiors is a "prestige value," 57.

--The material benefits which this ruling class contribute are: defense against aggression,
and promotion of the community's material gain, 60.

--The common defense is a remedy for evils due to the patriotic spirit, 61.

--The common defense the usual blind behind which events are put in train for eventual hostilities,
62.

--All the nations of warring Europe convinced that they are fighting a defensive war, 62.

--Which usually takes the form of a defense of the National Honour, 63.

--Material welfare is of interest to the Dynastic statesman only as it conduces to political
success, 64.

--The policy of national economic self-sufficiency, 67.

--The chief material use of patriotism is its use to a limited number of persons in their quest
of private gain, 67.

--And has the effect of dividing the nations on lines of rivalry, 76.

CHAPTER III

ON THE CONDITIONS OF A LASTING PEACE                                77

The patriotic spirit of modern peoples is the abiding source of contention among nations, 77.

--Hence any calculus of the Chances of Peace will be a reckoning of forces which may be counted
on to keep a patriotic nation in an unstable equilibrium of peace, 78.

--The question of peace and war at large is a question of peace and war among the Powers, which
are of two contrasted kinds: those which may safely be counted on spontaneously to take the
offensive and those which will fight on provocation, 79.

--War not a question of equity but of opportunity, 81.

--The Imperial designs of Germany and Japan as the prospective cause of war, 82.

--Peace can be maintained in two ways: submission to their dominion, or elimination of these
two Powers; No middle course open, 84.

--Frame of mind of states; men and popular sentiment in a Dynastic State, 84.

--Information, persuasion and reflection will not subdue national animosities and jealousies;
Peoples of Europe are racially homogeneous along lines of climatic latitude, 88.

--But loyalty is a matter of habituation, 89.

--Derivation and current state of German nationalism, 94.

--Contrasted with the animus of the citizens of a commonwealth, 103;--A neutral peace-compact
may be practicable in the absence of Germany and Japan, but it has no chance in their presence,
106.

--The national life of Germany: the Intellectuals, 108.

--Summary of chapter, 116.

CHAPTER IV

PEACE WITHOUT HONOUR                                               118

Submission to the Imperial Power one of the conditions precedent to a peaceful settlement, 118.

--Character of the projected tutelage, 118.

--Life under the Pax Germanica contrasted with the Ottoman and Russian rule, 124.

--China and biological and cultural success, 130.

--Difficulty of non-resistant subjection is of a psychological order, 131.

--Patriotism of the bellicose kind is of the nature of habit, 134.

--And men may divest themselves of it, 140.

--A decay of the bellicose national spirit must be of the negative order, the disuse of the
discipline out of which it has arisen, 142.

--Submission to Imperial authorities necessitates abeyance of national pride among the other
peoples, 144.

--Pecuniary merits of the projected Imperial dominion, 145.

--Pecuniary class distinctions in the commonwealths and the pecuniary burden on the common
man, 150.

--Material conditions of life for the common man under the modern rule of big business, 156.

--The competitive régime, "what the traffic will bear," and the life and labor of the common
man, 158.

--Industrial sabotage by businessmen, 165.

--Contrasted with the Imperial usufruct and its material advantages to the common man, 174.

CHAPTER V

PEACE AND NEUTRALITY                                               178

Personal liberty, not creature comforts, the ulterior springs of action of the common man of
the democratic nations, 178.

--No change of spiritual state to be looked for in the life-time of the oncoming generation, 185.

--The Dynastic spirit among the peoples of the Empire will, under the discipline of modern
economic conditions, fall into decay, 187.

--Contrast of class divisions in Germany and England, 192.

--National establishments are dependent for their continuance upon preparation for hostilities,
196.

--The time required for the people of the Dynastic States to unlearn their preconceptions will
be longer than the interval required for a new onset, 197.

--There can be no neutral course between peace by unconditional surrender and submission or
peace by the elimination of Imperial Germany and Japan, 202.

--Peace by submission not practicable for the modern nations, 203.

--Neutralisation of citizenship, 205.

--Spontaneous move in that direction not to be looked for, 213.

--Its chances of success, 219.

--The course of events in America, 221.

CHAPTER VI

ELIMINATION OF THE UNFIT                                           233

A league of neutrals, its outline, 233.

--Need of security from aggression of Imperial Germany, 234.

--Inclusion of the Imperial States in the league, 237.

--Necessity of elimination of Imperial military clique, 239.

--Necessity of intermeddling in internal affairs of Germany even if not acceptable to the German
people, 240.

--Probability of pacific nations taking measures to insure peace, 244-298.

--The British gentleman and his control of the English government, 244.

--The shifting of control out of the hands of the gentleman into those of the underbred common
man, 251.

--The war situation and its probable effect on popular habits of thought in England, 252.

--The course of such events and their bearing on the chances of a workable pacific league, 255.

--Conditions precedent to a successful pacific league of neutrals, 258.

--Colonial possessions, 259.

--Neutralisation of trade relations, 263.

--Futility of economic boycott, 266.

--The terms of settlement, 269.

--The effect of the war and the chances of the British people being able to meet the exigencies
of peace, 273.

--Summary of the terms of settlement, 280.

--Constitutional monarchies and the British gentlemanly government, 281.

--The American national establishment, a government by businessmen, and its economic policy, 292.

--America and the league, 294.

CHAPTER VII

PEACE AND THE PRICE SYSTEM                                         299

The different conceptions of peace, 299.

--Psychological effects of the war, 303.

--The handicraft system and the machine industry, and their psychological effect on political
preconceptions, 306.

--The machine technology and the decay of patriotic loyalty, 310.

--Summary, 313.

--Ownership and the right of contract, 315.

--Standardised under handicraft system, 319.

--Ownership and the machine industry. 320.

--Business control and sabotage, 322.

--Governments of pacific nations controlled by privileged classes, 326.

--Effect of peace on the economic situation, 328.

--Economic aspects of a régime of peace, especially as related to the development of classes, 330.

--The analogy of the Victorian Peace, 344.

--The case of the American Farmer, 348.

--The leisure class, 350.

--The rising standard of living, 354.

--Culture, 355.

--The eventual cleavage of classes, those who own and those who do not, 360.

--Conditioned by peace at large, 366.

--Necessary conditions of a lasting peace, 367.

AN INQUIRY INTO THE NATURE OF PEACE AND THE TERMS OF ITS PERPETUATION

ON THE NATURE OF PEACE AND THE TERMS OF ITS PERPETUATION

CHAPTER I

INTRODUCTORY: ON THE STATE AND ITS RELATION TO WAR AND PEACE

To many thoughtful men ripe in worldly wisdom it is known of a verity that war belongs indefeasibly
in the Order of Nature. Contention, with manslaughter, is indispensable in human intercourse,
at the same time that it conduces to the increase and diffusion of the manly virtues. So likewise,
the unspoiled youth of the race, in the period of adolescence and aspiring manhood, also commonly
share this gift of insight and back it with a generous commendation of all the martial qualities;
and women of nubile age and no undue maturity gladly meet them half way.

On the other hand, the mothers of the people are commonly unable to see the use of it all.
It seems a waste of dear-bought human life, with a large sum of nothing to show for it. So
also many men of an elderly turn, prematurely or otherwise, are ready to lend their countenance
to the like disparaging appraisal; it may be that the spirit of prowess in them runs at too
low a tension, or they may have outlived the more vivid appreciation of the spiritual values
involved. There are many, also, with a turn for exhortation, who find employment for their
best faculties in attesting the well-known atrocities and futility of war.

Indeed, not infrequently such advocates of peace will devote their otherwise idle powers to
this work of exhortation without stipend or subsidy. And they uniformly make good their contention
that the currently accepted conception of the nature of war--General Sherman's formula--is
substantially correct. All the while it is to be admitted that all this axiomatic exhortation
has no visible effect on the course of events or on the popular temper touching warlike enterprise.
Indeed, no equal volume of speech can be more incontrovertible or less convincing than the
utterances of the peace advocates, whether subsidised or not. "War is Bloodier than Peace."
This would doubtless be conceded without argument, but also without prejudice. Hitherto the
pacifists' quest of a basis for enduring peace, it must be admitted, has brought home nothing
tangible--with the qualification, of course, that the subsidised pacifists have come in for
the subsidy. So that, after searching the recesses of their imagination, able-bodied pacifists
whose loquacity has never been at fault hitherto have been brought to ask: "What Shall We Say?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Under these circumstances it will not be out of place to inquire into the nature of this peace
about which swings this wide orbit of opinion and argument. At the most, such an inquiry can
be no more gratuitous and no more nugatory than the controversies that provoke it. The intrinsic
merits of peace at large, as against those of warlike enterprise, it should be said, do not
here come in question. That question lies in the domain of preconceived opinion, so that for
the purposes of this inquiry it will have no significance except as a matter to be inquired
into; the main point of the inquiry being the nature, causes and consequences of such a preconception
favoring peace, and the circumstances that make for a contrary preconception in favor of war.

By and large, any breach of the peace in modern times is an official act and can be taken only
on initiative of the governmental establishment, the State. The national authorities may, of
course, be driven to take such a step by pressure of warlike popular sentiment. Such, e.g.,
is presumed to have been the case in the United States' attack on Spain during the McKinley
administration; but the more that comes to light of the intimate history of that episode, the
more evident does it become that the popular war sentiment to which the administration yielded
had been somewhat sedulously "mobilised" with a view to such yielding and such a breach. So
also in the case of the Boer war, the move was made under sanction of a popular war spirit,
which, again, did not come to a head without shrewd surveillance and direction. And so again
in the current European war, in the case, e.g., of Germany, where the initiative was taken,
the State plainly had the full support of popular sentiment, and may even be said to have precipitated
the war in response to this urgent popular aspiration; and here again it is a matter of notoriety
that the popular sentiment had long been sedulously nursed and "mobilised" to that effect,
so that the populace was assiduously kept in spiritual readiness for such an event. The like
is less evident as regards the United Kingdom, and perhaps also as regards the other Allies.

And such appears to have been the common run of the facts as regards all the greater wars of
the last one hundred years,--what may be called the "public" wars of this modern era, as contrasted
with the "private" or administrative wars which have been carried on in a corner by one and
another of the Great Powers against hapless barbarians, from time to time, in the course of
administrative routine.

It is also evident from the run of the facts as exemplified in these modern wars that while
any breach of the peace takes place only on the initiative and at the discretion of the government,
or State,[1] it is always requisite in furtherance of such warlike enterprise to cherish and
eventually to mobilise popular sentiment in support of any warlike move. Due fomentation of
a warlike animus is indispensable to the procuring and maintenance of a suitable equipment
with which eventually to break the peace, as well as to ensure a diligent prosecution of such
enterprise when once it has been undertaken. Such a spirit of militant patriotism as may serviceably
be mobilised in support of warlike enterprise has accordingly been a condition precedent to
any people's entry into the modern Concert of Nations. This Concert of Nations is a Concert
of Powers, and it is only as a Power that any nation plays its part in the concert, all the
while that "power" here means eventual warlike force.

[Footnote 1: A modern nation constitutes a State only in respect of or with ulterior bearing
on the question of International peace or war.]

Such a people as the Chinese, e.g., not pervaded with an adequate patriotic spirit, comes into
the Concert of Nations not as a Power but as a bone of contention. Not that the Chinese fall
short in any of the qualities that conduce to efficiency and welfare in time of peace, but
they appear, in effect, to lack that certain "solidarity of prowess" by virtue of which they
should choose to be (collectively) formidable rather than (individually) fortunate and upright;
and the modern civilised nations are not in a position, nor in a frame of mind, to tolerate
a neighbor whose only claim on their consideration falls under the category of peace on earth
and good-will among men. China appears hitherto not to have been a serviceable people for warlike
ends, except in so far as the resources of that country have been taken over and converted
to warlike uses by some alien power working to its own ends. Such have been the several alien
dynasties that have seized upon that country from time to time and have achieved dominion by
usufruct of its unwarlike forces. Such has been the nature of the Manchu empire of the recent
past, and such is the evident purpose of the prospective Japanese usufruct of the same country
and its populace. Meantime the Chinese people appear to be incorrigibly peaceable, being scarcely
willing to fight in any concerted fashion even when driven into a corner by unprovoked aggression,
as in the present juncture. Such a people is very exceptional. Among civilised nations there
are, broadly speaking, none of that temper, with the sole exception of the Chinese,--if the
Chinese are properly to be spoken of as a nation.

Modern warfare makes such large and direct use of the industrial arts, and depends for its
successful prosecution so largely on a voluminous and unremitting supply of civilian services
and wrought goods, that any inoffensive and industrious people, such as the Chinese, could
doubtless now be turned to good account by any warlike power that might have the disposal of
their working forces. To make their industrial efficiency count in this way toward warlike
enterprise and imperial dominion, the usufruct of any such inoffensive and unpatriotic populace
would have to fall into the hands of an alien governmental establishment. And no alien government
resting on the support of a home population trained in the habits of democracy or given over
to ideals of common honesty in national concerns could hopefully undertake the enterprise.
This work of empire-building out of unwarlike materials could apparently be carried out only
by some alien power hampered by no reserve of scruple, and backed by a servile populace of
its own, imbued with an impeccable loyalty to its masters and with a suitably bellicose temper,
as, e.g., Imperial Japan or Imperial Germany.

However, for the commonplace national enterprise the common run will do very well. Any populace
imbued with a reasonable measure of patriotism will serve as ways and means to warlike enterprise
under competent management, even if it is not habitually prone to a bellicose temper. Rightly
managed, ordinary patriotic sentiment may readily be mobilised for warlike adventure by any
reasonably adroit and single-minded body of statesmen,--of which there is abundant illustration.
All the peoples of Christendom are possessed of a sufficiently alert sense of nationality,
and by tradition and current usage all the national governments of Christendom are warlike
establishments, at least in the defensive sense; and the distinction between the defensive
and the offensive in international intrigue is a technical matter that offers no great difficulty.
None of these nations is of such an incorrigibly peaceable temper that they can be counted
on to keep the peace consistently in the ordinary course of events.

Peace established by the State, or resting in the discretion of the State, is necessarily of
the nature of an armistice, in effect terminable at will and on short notice. It is maintained
only on conditions, stipulated by express convention or established by custom, and there is
always the reservation, tacit or explicit, that recourse will be had to arms in case the "national
interests" or the punctilios of international etiquette are traversed by the act or defection
of any rival government or its subjects. The more nationally-minded the government or its subject
populace, the readier the response to the call of any such opportunity for an unfolding of
prowess. The most peaceable governmental policy of which Christendom has experience is a policy
of "watchful waiting," with a jealous eye to the emergence of any occasion for national resentment;
and the most irretrievably shameful dereliction of duty on the part of any civilised government
would be its eventual insensibility to the appeal of a "just war." Under any governmental auspices,
as the modern world knows governments, the keeping of the peace comes at its best under the
precept, "Speak softly and carry a big stick." But the case for peace is more precarious than
the wording of the aphorism would indicate, in as much as in practical fact the "big stick"
is an obstacle to soft speech. Evidently, in the light of recent history, if the peace is to
be kept it will have to come about irrespective of governmental management,--in spite of the
State rather than by its good offices. At the best, the State, or the government, is an instrumentality
for making peace, not for perpetuating it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Anyone who is interested in the nature and derivation of governmental institutions and establishments
in Europe, in any but the formal respect, should be able to satisfy his curiosity by looking
over the shoulders of the professed students of Political Science. Quite properly and profitably
that branch of scholarship is occupied with the authentic pedigree of these institutions, and
with the documentary instruments in the case; since Political Science is, after all, a branch
of theoretical jurisprudence and is concerned about a formally competent analysis of the recorded
legal powers. The material circumstances from which these institutions once took their beginning,
and the exigencies which have governed the rate and direction of their later growth and mutation,
as well as the de facto bearing of the institutional scheme on the material welfare or the
cultural fortunes of the given community,--while all these matters of fact may be germane to
the speculations of Political Theory, they are not intrinsic to its premises, to the logical
sequence of its inquiry, or to its theoretical findings. The like is also true, of course,
as regards that system of habits of thought, that current frame of mind, in which any given
institutional scheme necessarily is grounded, and without the continued support of which any
given scheme of governmental institutions or policy would become nugatory and so would pass
into the province of legal fiction. All these are not idle matters in the purview of the student
of Political Science, but they remain after all substantially extraneous to the structure of
political theory; and in so far as matters of this class are to be brought into the case at
all, the specialists in the field can not fairly be expected to contribute anything beyond
an occasional obiter dictum. There can be no discourteous presumption, therefore, in accepting
the general theorems of current political theory without prejudice, and looking past the received
theoretical formulations for a view of the substantial grounds on which the governmental establishments
have grown into shape, and the circumstances, material and spiritual, that surround their continued
working and effect.

By lineal descent the governmental establishments and the powers with which they are vested,
in all the Christian nations, are derived from the feudal establishments of the Middle Ages;
which, in turn, are of a predatory origin and of an irresponsible character.[2] In nearly all
instances, but more particularly among the nations that are accounted characteristically modern,
the existing establishments have been greatly altered from the mediaeval pattern, by concessive
adaptation to later exigencies or by a more or less revolutionary innovation. The degree of
their modernity is (conventionally) measured, roughly, by the degree in which they have departed
from the mediaeval pattern. Wherever the unavoidable concessions have been shrewdly made with
a view to conserving the autonomy and irresponsibility of the governmental establishment, or
the "State," and where the state of national sentiment has been led to favor this work of conservation,
as, e.g., in the case of Austria, Spain or Prussia, there the modern outcome has been what
may be called a Dynastic State. Where, on the other hand, the run of national sentiment has
departed notably from the ancient holding ground of loyal abnegation, and has enforced a measure
of revolutionary innovation, as in the case of France or of the English-speaking peoples, there
the modern outcome has been an (ostensibly) democratic commonwealth of ungraded citizens. But
the contrast so indicated is a contrast of divergent variants rather than of opposites. These
two type-forms may be taken as the extreme and inclusive limits of variation among the governmental
establishments with which the modern world is furnished.[3]

[Footnote 2: The partial and dubious exception of the Scandinavian countries or of Switzerland
need raise no question on this head.]

[Footnote 3: Cf., e.g., Eduard Meyer, England: its political organisation and development. ch. ii.]

The effectual difference between these two theoretically contrasted types of governmental establishments
is doubtless grave enough, and for many purposes it is consequential, but it is after all not
of such a nature as need greatly detain the argument at this point. The two differ less, in
effect, in that range of their functioning which comes in question here than in their bearing
on the community's fortunes apart from questions of war and peace. In all cases there stand
over in this bearing certain primary characteristics of the ancient régime, which all these
modern establishments have in common, though not all in an equal degree of preservation and
effectiveness. They are, e.g., all vested with certain attributes of "sovereignty." In all
cases the citizen still proves on closer attention to be in some measure a "subject" of the
State, in that he is invariably conceived to owe a "duty" to the constituted authorities in
one respect and another. All civilised governments take cognizance of Treason, Sedition, and
the like; and all good citizens are not only content but profoundly insistent on the clear
duty of the citizen on this head. The bias of loyalty is not a matter on which argument is
tolerated. By virtue of this bias of loyalty, or "civic duty"--which still has much of the
color of feudal allegiance--the governmental establishment is within its rights in coercively
controlling and directing the actions of the citizen, or subject, in those respects that so
lie within his duty; as also in authoritatively turning his abilities to account for the purposes
that so lie within the governmental discretion, as, e.g., the Common Defense.

These rights and powers still remain to the governmental establishment even at the widest democratic
departure from that ancient pattern of masterful tutelage and usufruct that marked the old-fashioned
patrimonial State,--and that still marks the better preserved ones among its modern derivatives.
And so intrinsic to these governmental establishments are these discretionary powers, and by
so unfailing a popular bias are they still accounted a matter of course and of axiomatic necessity,
that they have invariably been retained also among the attributes of those democratic governments
that trace their origin to a revolutionary break with the old order.

To many, all this will seem a pedantic taking note of commonplaces,--as if it were worth while
remarking that the existing governments are vested with the indispensable attributes of government.
Yet history records an instance at variance with this axiomatic rule, a rule which is held
to be an unavoidable deliverance of common sense. And it is by no means an altogether unique
instance. It may serve to show that these characteristic and unimpeachable powers that invest
all current governmental establishments are, after all, to be rated as the marks of a particular
species of governments, and not characteristics of the genus of governmental establishments
at large. These powers answer to an acquired bias, not to an underlying trait of human nature;
a matter of habit, not of heredity.

Such an historical instance is the so-called Republic, or Commonwealth, of Iceland--tenth to
thirteenth centuries. Its case is looked on by students of history as a spectacular anomaly,
because it admitted none of these primary powers of government in its constituted authorities.
And yet, for contrast with these matter-of-course preconceptions of these students of history,
it is well to note that in the deliberations of those ancients who installed the Republic for
the management of their joint concerns, any inclusion of such powers in its competency appears
never to have been contemplated, not even to the extent of its being rejected. This singularity--as
it would be rated by modern statesmen and students--was in no degree a new departure in state-making
on the part of the founders of the Republic. They had no knowledge of such powers, duties and
accountabilities, except as unwholesome features of a novel and alien scheme of irresponsible
oppression that was sought to be imposed on them by Harald Fairhair, and which they incontinently
made it their chief and immediate business to evade. They also set up no joint or collective
establishment with powers for the Common Defense, nor does it appear that such a notion had
occurred to them.

In the history of its installation there is no hint that the men who set up this Icelandic
Commonwealth had any sense of the need, or even of the feasibility, of such a coercive government
as would be involved in concerted preparation for the common defense. Subjection to personal
rule, or to official rule in any degree of attenuation, was not comprised in their traditional
experience of citizenship; and it was necessarily out of the elements comprised in this traditional
experience that the new structure would have to be built up. The new commonwealth was necessarily
erected on the premises afforded by the received scheme of use and wont; and this received
scheme had come down out of pre-feudal conditions, without having passed under the discipline
of that régime of coercion which the feudal system had imposed on the rest of Europe, and so
had established as an "immemorial usage" and a "second nature" among the populations of Christendom.
The resulting character of the Icelandic Commonwealth is sufficiently striking when contrasted
with the case of the English commonwealth of the seventeenth century, or the later French and
American republics. These, all and several, came out of a protracted experience in feudalistic
state-making and State policy; and the common defense--frequently on the offensive--with its
necessary coercive machinery and its submissive loyalty, consequently would take the central
place in the resulting civic structure.

To close the tale of the Icelandic commonwealth it may be added that their republic of insubordinate
citizens presently fell into default, systematic misuse, under the disorders brought on by
an accumulation of wealth, and that it died of legal fiction and constitutional formalities
after some experience at the hands of able and ambitious statesmen in contact with an alien
government drawn on the coercive plan. The clay vessel failed to make good among the iron pots,
and so proved its unfitness to survive in the world of Christian nations,--very much as the
Chinese are today at the mercy of the defensive rapacity of the Powers.

     And the mercy that we gave them
   Was to sink them in the sea,
   Down on the coast of High Barbarie.

No doubt, it will be accepted as an axiomatic certainty that the establishment of a commonwealth
after the fashion of the Icelandic Republic, without coercive authority or provision for the
common defense, and without a sense of subordination or collective responsibility among its
citizens, would be out of all question under existing circumstances of politics and international
trade. Nor would such a commonwealth be workable on the scale and at the pace imposed by modern
industrial and commercial conditions, even apart from international jealousy and ambitions,
provided the sacred rights of ownership were to be maintained in something like their current
shape. And yet something of a drift of popular sentiment, and indeed something of deliberate
endeavour, setting in the direction of such a harmless and helpless national organisation is
always visible in Western Europe, throughout modern times; particularly through the eighteenth
and the early half of the nineteenth centuries; and more particularly among the English-speaking
peoples and, with a difference, among the French. The Dutch and the Scandinavian countries
answer more doubtfully to the same characterisation.

The movement in question is known to history as the Liberal, Rationalistic, Humanitarian, or
Individualistic departure. Its ideal, when formulated, is spoken of as the System of Natural
Rights; and its goal in the way of a national establishment has been well characterised by
its critics as the Police State, or the Night-Watchman State. The gains made in this direction,
or perhaps better the inroads of this animus in national ideals, are plainly to be set down
as a shift in the direction of peace and amity; but it is also plain that the shift of ground
so initiated by this strain of sentiment has never reached a conclusion and never has taken
effect in anything like an effectual working arrangement. Its practical consequences have been
of the nature of abatement and defection in the pursuit of national ambitions and dynastic
enterprise, rather than a creative work of installing any institutional furniture suitable
to its own ends. It has in effect gone no farther than what would be called an incipient correction
of abuses. The highest rise, as well as the decline, of this movement lie within the nineteenth
century.

In point of time, the decay of this amiable conceit of laissez-faire in national policy coincides
with the period of great advance in the technology of transport and communication in the nineteenth
century. Perhaps, on a larger outlook, it should rather be said that the run of national ambitions
and animosities had, in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, suffered a degree of decay
through the diffusion of this sentimental predilection for Natural Liberty, and that this decline
of the manlier aspirations was then arrested and corrected by help of these improvements in
the technological situation; which enabled a closer and more coercive control to be exercised
over larger areas, and at the same time enabled a more massive aggregate of warlike force to
strike more effectively at a greater distance. This whole episode of the rise and decline of
laissez-faire in modern history is perhaps best to be conceived as a transient weakening of
nationalism, by neglect; rather than anything like the growth of a new and more humane ideal
of national intercourse. Such would be the appraisal to be had at the hands of those who speak
for a strenuous national life and for the arbitrament of sportsmanlike contention in human
affairs. And the latterday growth of more militant aspirations, together with the more settled
and sedulous attention to a development of control and of formidable armaments, such as followed
on through the latter half of the nineteenth century, would then be rated as a resumption of
those older aims and ideals that had been falling somewhat into abeyance in the slack-water
days of Liberalism.

There is much to be said for this latter view; and, indeed, much has been said for it, particularly
by the spokesmen of imperialist politics. This bias of Natural Liberty has been associated
in history with the English-speaking peoples, more intimately and more extensively than with
any other. Not that this amiable conceit is in any peculiar degree a race characteristic of
this group of peoples; nor even that the history of its rise and decline runs wholly within
the linguistic frontiers indicated by this characterisation. The French and the Dutch have
borne their share, and at an earlier day Italian sentiment and speculation lent its impulsion
to the same genial drift of faith and aspiration. But, by historical accident, its center of
gravity and of diffusion has lain with the English-speaking communities during the period when
this bias made history and left its impress on the institutional scheme of the Western civilisation.
By grace of what may, for the present purpose, be called historical accident, it happens that
the interval of history during which the bias of Natural Liberty made visible headway was also
a period during which these English-speaking peoples, among whom its effects are chiefly visible,
were relatively secure from international disturbance, by force of inaccessibility. Little
strain was put upon their sense of national solidarity or national prowess; so little, indeed,
that there was some danger of their patriotic animosity falling into decay by disuse; and then
they were also busy with other things. Peaceable intercourse, it is true, was relatively easy,
active and far-reaching--eighteenth and nineteenth centuries--as compared with what had been
the case before that time; but warlike intercourse on such a scale as would constitute a substantial
menace to any large nation was nearly out of the question, so far as regards the English-speaking
peoples. The available means of aggression, as touches the case of these particular communities,
were visibly and consciously inadequate as compared with the means of defense. The means of
internal or intra-national control or coercion were also less well provided by the state of
the arts current at that time than the means of peaceable intercourse. These means of transport
and communication were, at that stage of their development, less well suited for the purposes
of far-reaching warlike strategy and the exercise of surveillance and coercion over large spaces
than for the purposes of peaceable traffic.

But the continued improvement in the means of communication during the nineteenth century presently
upset that situation, and so presently began to neutralise the geographical quarantine which
had hedged about these communities that were inclined to let well enough alone. The increasing
speed and accuracy of movement in shipping, due to the successful introduction of steam, as
well as the concomitant increasing size of the units of equipment, all runs to this effect
and presently sets at naught the peace barriers of sea and weather. So also the development
of railways and their increasing availability for strategic uses, together with the far-reaching
coordination of movement made possible by their means and by the telegraph; all of which is
further facilitated by the increasing mass and density of population. Improvements in the technology
of arms and armament worked to the like effect, of setting the peace of any community on an
increasingly precarious footing, through the advantage which this new technology gave to a
ready equipment and a rapid mobilisation. The new state of the industrial arts serviceable
for warlike enterprise put an increasingly heavy premium on readiness for offense or defense,
but more particularly it all worked increasingly to the advantage of the offensive. It put
the Fabian strategy out of date, and led to the doctrine of a defensive offense.

Gradually it came true, with the continued advance in those industrial arts that lend themselves
to strategic uses, and it came also to be realised, that no corner of the earth was any longer
secure by mere favor of distance and natural difficulty, from eventual aggression at the hands
of any provident and adventurous assailant,--even by help of a modicum of defensive precaution.
The fear of aggression then came definitively to take the place of international good-will
and became the chief motive in public policy, so fast and so far as the state of the industrial
arts continued to incline the balance of advantage to the side of the aggressor. All of which
served greatly to strengthen the hands of those statesmen who, by interest or temperament,
were inclined to imperialistic enterprise. Since that period all armament has conventionally
been accounted defensive, and all statesmen have professed that the common defense is their
chief concern. Professedly all armament has been designed to keep the peace; so much of a shadow
of the peaceable bias there still stands over.

Throughout this latest phase of modern civilisation the avowed fear of aggression has served
as apology, possibly as provocation in fact, to national armaments; and throughout the same
period any analysis of the situation will finally run the chain of fear back to Prussia as
the putative or actual, center of disturbance and apprehension. No doubt, Prussian armament
has taken the lead and forced the pace among the nations of Christendom; but the Prussian policy,
too, has been diligently covered with the same decorous plea of needful provision for the common
defense and an unremitting solicitude for international peace,--to which has been added the
canny afterthought of the "defensive offense."

It is characteristic of this era of armed peace that in all these extensive preparations for
breaking the peace any formal avowal of other than a defensive purpose has at all times been
avoided as an insufferable breach of diplomatic decorum. It is likewise characteristic of the
same era that armaments have unremittingly been increased, beyond anything previously known;
and that all men have known all the while that the inevitable outcome of this avowedly defensive
armament must eventually be war on an unprecedented scale and of unexampled ferocity. It would
be neither charitable nor otherwise to the point to call attention to the reflection which
this state of the case throws on the collective sagacity or the good faith of the statesmen
who have had the management of affairs. It is not practicable to imagine how such an outcome
as the present could have been brought about by any degree of stupidity or incapacity alone,
nor is it easier to find evidence that the utmost sagacity of the statecraft engaged has had
the slightest mitigating effect on the evil consummation to which the whole case has been brought.
It has long been a commonplace among observers of public events that these professedly defensive
warlike preparations have in effect been preparations for breaking the peace; against which,
at least ostensibly, a remedy had been sought in the preparation of still heavier armaments,
with full realisation that more armament would unfailingly entail a more unsparing and more
disastrous war,--which sums up the statecraft of the past half century.

Prussia, and afterwards Prussianised Germany, has come in for the distinction of taking the
lead and forcing the pace in this competitive preparation--or "preparedness"--for war in time
of peace. That such has been the case appears in good part to be something of a fortuitous
circumstance. The season of enterprising force and fraud to which that country owes its induction
into the concert of nations is an episode of recent history; so recent, indeed, that the German
nation has not yet had time to live it down and let it be forgotten; and the Imperial State
is consequently burdened with an irritably uneasy sense of odium and an established reputation
for unduly bad faith. From which it has followed, among other things, that the statesmen of
the Empire have lived in the expectation of having their unforgotten derelictions brought home,
and so have, on the one hand, found themselves unable to credit any pacific intentions professed
by the neighboring Powers, while on the other hand they have been unable to gain credence for
their own voluble professions of peace and amity. So it has come about that, by a fortuitous
conjuncture of scarcely relevant circumstances, Prussia and the Empire have been thrown into
the lead in the race of "preparedness" and have been led assiduously to hasten a breach which
they could ill afford. It is, to say the least, extremely doubtful if the event would have
been substantially different in the absence of that special provocation to competitive preparedness
that has been injected into the situation by this German attitude; but the rate of approach
to a warlike climax has doubtless been hastened by the anticipatory policy of preparedness
which the Prussian dynasty has seen itself constrained to pursue. Eventually, the peculiar
circumstances of its case--embarrassment at home and distaste and discredit abroad--have induced
the Imperial State to take the line of a defensive offense, to take war by the forelock and
retaliate on presumptive enemies for prospective grievances. But in any case, the progressive
improvement in transport and communication, as well as in the special technology of warfare,
backed by greatly enhanced facilities for indoctrinating the populace with militant nationalism,--these
ways and means, working under the hand of patriotic statesmen must in course of the past century
have brought the peace of Europe to so precarious a footing as would have provoked a material
increase in the equipment for national defense; which would unavoidably have led to competitive
armament and an enhanced international distrust and animosity, eventually culminating in hostilities.

       *       *       *       *       *

It may well be that the plea of defensive preparation advanced by the statesmen, Prussian and
others, in apology for competitive armaments is a diplomatic subterfuge,--there are indications
that such has commonly been the case; but even if it commonly is visibly disingenuous, the
need of making such a plea to cover more sinister designs is itself an evidence that an avowedly
predatory enterprise no longer meets with the requisite popular approval. Even if an exception
to this rule be admitted in the recent attitude of the German people, it is to be recalled
that the exception was allowed to stand only transiently, and that presently the avowal of
a predatory design in this case was urgently disclaimed in the face of adversity. Even those
who speak most fluently for the necessity of war, and for its merits as a needed discipline
in the manly virtues, are constrained by the prevailing sentiment to deprecate its necessity.

Yet it is equally evident that when once a warlike enterprise has been entered upon so far
as to commit the nation to hostilities, it will have the cordial support of popular sentiment
even if it is patently an aggressive war. Indeed, it is quite a safe generalisation that when
hostilities have once been got fairly under way by the interested statesmen, the patriotic
sentiment of the nation may confidently be counted on to back the enterprise irrespective of
the merits of the quarrel. But even if the national sentiment is in this way to be counted
in as an incidental matter of course, it is also to be kept in mind in this connection that
any quarrel so entered upon by any nation will forthwith come to have the moral approval of
the community. Dissenters will of course be found, sporadically, who do not readily fall in
with the prevailing animus; but as a general proposition it will still hold true that any such
quarrel forthwith becomes a just quarrel in the eyes of those who have so been committed to it.

A corollary following from this general theorem may be worth noting in the same connection.
Any politician who succeeds in embroiling his country in a war, however nefarious, becomes
a popular hero and is reputed a wise and righteous statesman, at least for the time being.
Illustrative instances need perhaps not, and indeed can not gracefully, be named; most popular
heroes and reputed statesmen belong in this class.

Another corollary, which bears more immediately on the question in hand, follows also from
the same general proposition: Since the ethical values involved in any given international
contest are substantially of the nature of afterthought or accessory, they may safely be left
on one side in any endeavour to understand or account for any given outbreak of hostilities.
The moral indignation of both parties to the quarrel is to be taken for granted, as being the
statesman's chief and necessary ways and means of bringing any warlike enterprise to a head
and floating it to a creditable finish. It is a precipitate of the partisan animosity that
inspires both parties and holds them to their duty of self-sacrifice and devastation, and at
its best it will chiefly serve as a cloak of self-righteousness to extenuate any exceptionally
profligate excursions in the conduct of hostilities.

Any warlike enterprise that is hopefully to be entered on must have the moral sanction of the
community, or of an effective majority in the community. It consequently becomes the first
concern of the warlike statesman to put this moral force in train for the adventure on which
he is bent. To these should perhaps be added as a third, the advancement and perpetuation of
the nation's "Culture;" that is to say, of its habitual scheme of use and wont. It is a nice
question whether, in practical effect, the aspiration to perpetuate the national Culture is
consistently to be distinguished from the vindication of the national honour. There is perhaps
the distinction to be made that "the perpetuation of the national Culture" lends a readier
countenance to gratuitous aggression and affords a broader cover for incidental atrocities,
since the enemies of the national Culture will necessarily be conceived as an inferior and
obstructive people, falling beneath the rules of commonplace decorum.

Those material interests for which modern nations are in the habit of taking to arms are commonly
of a fanciful character, in that they commonly have none but an imaginary net value to the
community at large. Such are, e.g., the national trade or the increase of the national territory.
These and the like may serve the warlike or dynastic ambitions of the nation's masters; they
may also further the interests of office-holders, and more particularly of certain business
houses or businessmen who stand to gain some small advantage by help of the powers in control;
but it all signifies nothing more to the common man than an increased bill of governmental
expense and a probable increase in the cost of living.

That a nation's trade should be carried in vessels owned by its citizens or registered in its
ports will doubtless have some sentimental value to the common run of its citizens, as is shown
by the fact that disingenuous politicians always find it worth their while to appeal to this
chauvinistic predilection. But it patently is all a completely idle question, in point of material
advantage, to anyone but the owners of the vessels; and to these owners it is also of no material
consequence under what flag their investments sail, except so far as the government in question
may afford them some preferential opportunity for gain,--always at the cost of their fellow
citizens. The like is equally true as regards the domicile and the national allegiance of the
businessmen who buy and sell the country's imports and exports. The common man plainly has
no slightest material interest in the nationality or the place of residence of those who conduct
this traffic; though all the facts go to say that in some puzzle-headed way the common man
commonly persuades himself that it does make some occult sort of difference to him; so that
he is commonly willing to pay something substantial toward subsidising businessmen of his own
nationality, in the way of a protective tariff and the like.

The only material advantage to be derived from such a preferential trade policy arises in the
case of international hostilities, in which case the home-owned vessels and merchants may on
occasion count toward military readiness; although even in that connection their value is contingent
and doubtful. But in this way they may contribute in their degree to a readiness to break off
peaceable relations with other countries. It is only for warlike purposes, that is to say for
the dynastic ambitions of warlike statesmen, that these preferential contrivances in economic
policy have any substantial value; and even in that connection their expediency is always doubtful.
They are a source of national jealousy, and they may on occasion become a help to military
strategy when this national jealousy eventuates in hostilities.

The run of the facts touching this matter of national trade policy is something as follows:
At the instance of businessmen who stand to gain by it, and with the cordial support of popular
sentiment, the constituted authorities sedulously further the increase of shipping and commerce
under protection of the national power. At the same time they spend substance and diplomatic
energy in an endeavor to extend the international market facilities open to the country's businessmen,
with a view always to a preferential advantage in favor of these businessmen, also with the
sentimental support of the common man and at his cost. To safeguard these commercial interests,
as well as property-holdings of the nation's citizens in foreign parts, the nation maintains
naval, military, consular and diplomatic establishments, at the common expense. The total gains
derivable from these commercial and investment interests abroad, under favorable circumstances,
will never by any chance equal the cost of the governmental apparatus installed to further
and safeguard them. These gains, such as they are, go to the investors and businessmen engaged
in these enterprises; while the costs incident to the adventure are borne almost wholly by
the common man, who gets no gain from it all. Commonly, as in the case of a protective tariff
or a preferential navigation law, the cost to the common man is altogether out of proportion
to the gain which accrues to the businessmen for whose benefit he carries the burden. The only
other class, besides the preferentially favored businessmen, who derive any material benefit
from this arrangement is that of the office-holders who take care of this governmental traffic
and draw something in the way of salaries and perquisites; and whose cost is defrayed by the
common man, who remains an outsider in all but the payment of the bills. The common man is
proud and glad to bear this burden for the benefit of his wealthier neighbors, and he does
so with the singular conviction that in some occult manner he profits by it. All this is incredible,
but it is everyday fact.

In case it should happen that these business interests of the nation's businessmen interested
in trade or investments abroad are jeopardised by a disturbance of any kind in these foreign
parts in which these business interests lie, then it immediately becomes the urgent concern
of the national authorities to use all means at hand for maintaining the gainful traffic of
these businessmen undiminished, and the common man pays the cost. Should such an untoward situation
go to such sinister lengths as to involve actual loss to these business interests or otherwise
give rise to a tangible grievance, it becomes an affair of the national honour; whereupon no
sense of proportion as between the material gains at stake and the cost of remedy or retaliation
need longer be observed, since the national honour is beyond price. The motivation in the case
shifts from the ground of material interest to the spiritual ground of the moral sentiments.

In this connection "honour" is of course to be taken in the euphemistic sense which the term
has under the code duello governing "affairs of honour." It carries no connotation of honesty,
veracity, equity, liberality, or unselfishness. This national honour is of the nature of an
intangible or immaterial asset, of course; it is a matter of prestige, a sportsmanlike conception;
but that fact must not be taken to mean that it is of any the less substantial effect for purposes
of a casus belli than the material assets of the community. Quite the contrary: "Who steals
my purse, steals trash," etc. In point of fact, it will commonly happen that any material grievance
must first be converted into terms of this spiritual capital, before it is effectually turned
to account as a stimulus to warlike enterprise.

Even among a people with so single an eye to the main chance as the American community it will
be found true, on experiment or on review of the historical evidence, that an offense against
the national honour commands a profounder and more unreserved resentment than any infraction
of the rights of person or property simply. This has latterly been well shown in connection
with the manoeuvres of the several European belligerents, designed to bend American neutrality
to the service of one side or the other. Both parties have aimed to intimidate and cajole;
but while the one party has taken recourse to effrontery and has made much and ostentatious
use of threats and acts of violence against person and property, the other has constantly observed
a deferential attitude toward American national self-esteem, even while engaged on a persistent
infraction of American commercial rights. The first named line of diplomacy has convicted itself
of miscarriage and has lost the strategic advantage, as against the none too adroit finesse
of the other side. The statesmen of this European war power were so ill advised as to enter
on a course of tentatively cumulative intimidation, by threats and experimentally graduated
crimes against the property and persons of American citizens, with a view to coerce American
cupidity and yet to avoid carrying these manoeuvres of terrorism far enough to arouse an unmanageable
sense of outrage. The experiment has served to show that the breaking point in popular indignation
will be reached before the terrorism has gone far enough to raise a serious question of pecuniary
caution.

This national honour, which so is rated a necessary of life, is an immaterial substance in
a peculiarly high-wrought degree, being not only not physically tangible but also not even
capable of adequate statement in pecuniary terms,--as would be the case with ordinary immaterial
assets. It is true, where the point of grievance out of which a question of the national honour
arises is a pecuniary discrepancy, the national honour can not be satisfied without a pecuniary
accounting; but it needs no argument to convince all right-minded persons that even at such
a juncture the national honour that has been compromised is indefinitely and indefinably more
than what can be made to appear on an accountant's page. It is a highly valued asset, or at
least a valued possession, but it is of a metaphysical, not of a physical nature, and it is
not known to serve any material or otherwise useful end apart from affording a practicable
grievance consequent upon its infraction.

This national honour is subject to injury in divers ways, and so may yield a fruitful grievance
even apart from offences against the person or property of the nation's businessmen; as, e.g.,
through neglect or disregard of the conventional punctilios governing diplomatic intercourse,
or by disrespect or contumelious speech touching the Flag, or the persons of national officials,
particularly of such officials as have only a decorative use, or the costumes worn by such
officials, or, again, by failure to observe the ritual prescribed for parading the national
honour on stated occasions. When duly violated the national honour may duly be made whole again
by similarly immaterial instrumentalities; as, e.g., by recital of an appropriate formula of
words, by formal consumption of a stated quantity of ammunition in the way of a salute, by
"dipping" an ensign, and the like,--procedure which can, of course, have none but a magical
efficacy. The national honour, in short, moves in the realm of magic, and touches the frontiers
of religion.

Throughout this range of duties incumbent on the national defense, it will be noted, the offenses
or discrepancies to be guarded against or corrected by recourse to arms have much of a ceremonial
character. Whatever may be the material accidents that surround any given concrete grievance
that comes up for appraisal and redress, in bringing the case into the arena for trial by combat
it is the spiritual value of the offense that is played up and made the decisive ground of
action, particularly in so far as appeal is made to the sensibilities of the common man, who
will have to bear the cost of the adventure. And in such a case it will commonly happen that
the common man is unable, without advice, to see that any given hostile act embodies a sacrilegious
infraction of the national honour. He will at any such conjuncture scarcely rise to the pitch
of moral indignation necessary to float a warlike reprisal, until the expert keepers of the
Code come in to expound and certify the nature of the transgression. But when once the lesion
to the national honour has been ascertained, appraised and duly exhibited by those persons
whose place in the national economy it is to look after all that sort of thing, the common
man will be found nowise behindhand about resenting the evil usage of which he so, by force
of interpretation, has been a victim.

CHAPTER II

ON THE NATURE AND USES OF PATRIOTISM

Patriotism may be defined as a sense of partisan solidarity in respect of prestige. What the
expert psychologists, and perhaps the experts in Political Science, might find it necessary
to say in the course of an exhaustive analysis and definition of this human faculty would presumably
be something more precise and more extensive. There is no inclination here to forestall definition,
but only to identify and describe the concept that loosely underlies the colloquial use of
this term, so far as seems necessary to an inquiry into the part played by the patriotic animus
in the life of modern peoples, particularly as it bears on questions of war and peace.

On any attempt to divest this concept of all extraneous or adventitious elements it will be
found that such a sense of an undivided joint interest in a collective body of prestige will
always remain as an irreducible minimum. This is the substantial core about which many and
divers subsidiary interests cluster, but without which these other clustering interests and
aspirations will not, jointly or severally, make up a working palladium of the patriotic spirit.

It is true, seen in some other light or rated in some other bearing or connection, one and
another of these other interests, ideals, aspirations, beatitudes, may well be adjudged nobler,
wiser, possibly more urgent than the national prestige; but in the forum of patriotism all
these other necessaries of human life--the glory of God and the good of man--rise by comparison
only to the rank of subsidiaries, auxiliaries, amenities. He is an indifferent patriot who
will let "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness" cloud the issue and get in the way of
the main business in hand.

There once were, we are told, many hardy and enterprising spirits banded together along the
Spanish Main for such like ends, just as there are in our day an even greater number of no
less single-minded spirits bent on their own "life, liberty and pursuit of happiness," according
to their light, in the money-markets of the modern world; but for all their admirable qualities
and splendid achievements, their passionate quest of these amenities has not entitled these
Gentlemen Adventurers to claim rank as patriots.

But, again, a temperate scrutiny of the list of desiderata so enumerated in the poet's flight,
will quickly bring out the fact that any or all of them might drop out of the situation without
prejudice to the plain call of patriotic duty. In the last resort, when the patriotic spirit
falls back on its naked self alone, it is not reflection on the merits of these good and beautiful
things in Nature that gives him his cue and enforces the ultimate sacrifice. Indeed it is something
infinitely more futile and infinitely more urgent,--provided only that the man is imbued with
the due modicum of patriotic devotion; as, indeed, men commonly are. It is not faith, hope
or charity that abide as the irreducible minimum of virtue in the patriot's scheme of things;
particularly not that charity that has once been highly spoken of as being the greatest of
these. It may be that, viewed in the light of reason, as Doctor Katzenberger would say, patriotic
devotion is the most futile thing in the world; but, for good or ill, the light of reason has
nothing to do with the case,--no more than "The flowers that bloom in the spring."

The patriotic spirit is a spirit of emulation, evidently, at the same time that it is emulation
shot through with a sense of solidarity. It belongs under the general caption of sportsmanship,
rather than of workmanship. Now, any enterprise in sportsmanship is bent on an invidious success,
which must involve as its major purpose the defeat and humiliation of some competitor, whatever
else may be comprised in its aim. Its aim is a differential gain, as against a rival; and the
emulative spirit that comes under the head of patriotism commonly, if not invariably, seeks
this differential advantage by injury of the rival rather than by an increase of home-bred
well-being.

Indeed, well-being is altogether out of the perspective, except as underpinning for an edifice
of national prestige. It is, at least, a safe generalisation that the patriotic sentiment never
has been known to rise to the consummate pitch of enthusiastic abandon except when bent on
some work of concerted malevolence. Patriotism is of a contentious complexion, and finds its
full expression in no other outlet than warlike enterprise; its highest and final appeal is
for the death, damage, discomfort and destruction of the party of the second part.

It is not that the spirit of patriotism will tolerate no other sentiments bearing on matters
of public interest, but only that it will tolerate none that traverse the call of the national
prestige. Like other men, the patriot may be moved by many and divers other considerations,
besides that of the national prestige; and these other considerations may be of the most genial
and reasonable kind, or they may also be as foolish and mischievous as any comprised in the
range of human infirmities. He may be a humanitarian given over to the kindliest solicitude
for the common good, or a religious devotee hedged about in all his motions by the ever present
fear of God, or taken up with artistic, scholarly or scientific pursuits; or, again, he may
be a spendthrift devotee of profane dissipation, whether in the slums or on the higher levels
of gentility, or he may be engaged on a rapacious quest of gain, as a businessman within the
law or as a criminal without its benefit, or he may spend his best endeavors in advancing the
interests of his class at the cost of the nation at large. All that is understood as a matter
of course and is beside the point. In so far as he is a complete patriot these other interests
will fall away from him when the one clear call of patriotic duty comes to enlist him in the
cause of the national prestige. There is, indeed, nothing to hinder a bad citizen being a good
patriot; nor does it follow that a good citizen--in other respects--may not be a very indifferent
patriot.

Many and various other preferences and considerations may coincide with the promptings of the
patriotic spirit, and so may come in to coalesce with and fortify its driving force; and it
is usual for patriotic men to seek support for their patriotic impulses in some reasoned purpose
of this extraneous kind that is believed to be served by following the call of the national
prestige,--it may be a presumptive increase and diffusion of culture at large, or the spread
and enhancement of a presumptively estimable religious faith, or a prospective liberation of
mankind from servitude to obnoxious masters and outworn institutions; or, again, it may be
the increase of peace and material well-being among men, within the national frontiers or impartially
throughout the civilised world. There are, substantially, none of the desirable things in this
world that are not so counted on by some considerable body of patriots to be accomplished by
the success of their own particular patriotic aspirations. What they will not come to an understanding
about is the particular national ascendency with which the attainment of these admirable ends
is conceived to be bound up.

The ideals, needs and aims that so are brought into the patriotic argument to lend a color
of rationality to the patriotic aspiration in any given case will of course be such ideals,
needs and aims as are currently accepted and felt to be authentic and self-legitimating among
the people in whose eyes the given patriotic enterprise is to find favor. So one finds that,
e.g., among the followers of Islam, devout and resolute, the patriotic statesman (that is to
say the politician who designs to make use of the popular patriotic fervor) will in the last
resort appeal to the claims and injunctions of the faith. In a similar way the Prussian statesman
bent on dynastic enterprise will conjure in the name of the dynasty and of culture and efficiency;
or, if worse comes to worst, an outbreak will be decently covered with a plea of mortal peril
and self-defense. Among English-speaking peoples much is to be gained by showing that the path
of patriotic glory is at the same time the way of equal-handed justice under the rule of free
institutions; at the same time, in a fully commercialised community, such as the English-speaking
commonly are, material benefits in the way of trade will go far to sketch in a background of
decency for any enterprise that looks to the enhancement of the national prestige.

But any promise of gain, whether in the nation's material or immaterial assets, will not of
itself carry full conviction to the commonplace modern citizen; or even to such modern citizens
as are best endowed with a national spirit. By and large, and overlooking that appreciable
contingent of morally defective citizens that is to be counted on in any hybrid population,
it will hold true that no contemplated enterprise or line of policy will fully commend itself
to the popular sense of merit and expediency until it is given a moral turn, so as to bring
it to square with the dictates of right and honest dealing. On no terms short of this will
it effectually coalesce with the patriotic aspiration. To give the fullest practical effect
to the patriotic fervor that animates any modern nation, and so turn it to use in the most
effective way, it is necessary to show that the demands of equity are involved in the case.
Any cursory survey of modern historical events bearing on this point, among the civilised peoples,
will bring out the fact that no concerted and sustained movement of the national spirit can
be had without enlisting the community's moral convictions. The common man must be persuaded
that right is on his side. "Thrice is he armed who knows his quarrel just." The grounds of
this conviction may often be tawdry enough, but the conviction is a necessary factor in the case.

The requisite moral sanction may be had on various grounds, and, on the whole, it is not an
extremely difficult matter to arrange. In the simplest and not infrequent case it may turn
on a question of equity in respect of trade or investment as between the citizens or subjects
of the several rival nations; the Chinese "Open Door" affords as sordid an example as may be
desired. Or it may be only an envious demand for a share in the world's material resources--"A
Place in the Sun," as a picturesque phrase describes it; or "The Freedom of the Seas," as another
equally vague and equally invidious demand for international equity phrases it. These demands
are put forward with a color of demanding something in the way of equitable opportunity for
the commonplace peaceable citizen; but quite plainly they have none but a fanciful bearing
on the fortunes of the common man in time of peace, and they have a meaning to the nation only
as a fighting unit; apart from their prestige value, these things are worth fighting for only
as prospective means of fighting. The like appeal to the moral sensibilities may, again, be
made in the way of a call to self-defense, under the rule of Live and let live; or it may also
rest on the more tenuous obligation to safeguard the national integrity of a weaker neighbor,
under a broader interpretation of the same equitable rule of Live and let live. But in one
way or another it is necessary to set up the conviction that the promptings of patriotic ambition
have the sanction of moral necessity.

It is not that the line of national policy or patriotic enterprise so entered upon with the
support of popular sentiment need be right and equitable as seen in dispassionate perspective
from the outside, but only that it should be capable of being made to seem right and equitable
to the biased populace whose moral convictions are requisite to its prosecution; which is quite
another matter. Nor is it that any such patriotic enterprise is, in fact, entered on simply
or mainly on these moral grounds that so are alleged in its justification, but only that some
such colorable ground of justification or extenuation is necessary to be alleged, and to be
credited by popular belief.

It is not that the common man is not sufficiently patriotic, but only that he is a patriot
hampered with a plodding and uneasy sense of right and honest dealing, and that one must make
up one's account with this moral bias in looking to any sustained and concerted action that
draws on the sentiment of the common man for its carrying on. But the moral sense in the case
may be somewhat easily satisfied with a modicum of equity, in case the patriotic bias of the
people is well pronounced, or in case it is reenforced with a sufficient appeal to self-interest.
In those cases where the national fervor rises to an excited pitch, even very attenuated considerations
of right and justice, such as would under ordinary conditions doubtfully bear scrutiny as extenuating
circumstances, may come to serve as moral authentication for any extravagant course of action
to which the craving for national prestige may incite. The higher the pitch of patriotic fervor,
the more tenuous and more thread-bare may be the requisite moral sanction. By cumulative excitation
some very remarkable results have latterly been attained along this line.

       *       *       *       *       *

Patriotism is evidently a spirit of particularism, of aliency and animosity between contrasted
groups of persons; it lives on invidious comparison, and works out in mutual hindrance and
jealousy between nations. It commonly goes the length of hindering intercourse and obstructing
traffic that would patently serve the material and cultural well-being of both nationalities;
and not infrequently, indeed normally, it eventuates in competitive damage to both.

All this holds true in the world of modern civilisation, at the same time that the modern civilised
scheme of life is, notoriously, of a cosmopolitan character, both in its cultural requirements
and in its economic structure. Modern culture is drawn on too large a scale, is of too complex
and multiform a character, requires the cooperation of too many and various lines of inquiry,
experience and insight, to admit of its being confined within national frontiers, except at
the cost of insufferable crippling and retardation. The science and scholarship that is the
peculiar pride of civilised Christendom is not only international, but rather it is homogeneously
cosmopolitan; so that in this bearing there are, in effect, no national frontiers; with the
exception, of course, that in a season of patriotic intoxication, such as the current war has
induced, even the scholars and scientists will be temporarily overset by their patriotic fervour.
Indeed, with the best efforts of obscurantism and national jealousy to the contrary, it remains
patently true that modern culture is the culture of Christendom at large, not the culture of
one and another nation in severalty within the confines of Christendom. It is only as and in
so far as they partake in and contribute to the general run of Western civilisation at large
that the people of any one of these nations of Christendom can claim standing as a cultured
nation; and even any distinctive variation from this general run of civilised life, such as
may give a "local colour" of ideals, tastes and conventions, will, in point of cultural value,
have to be rated as an idle detail, a species of lost motion, that serves no better purpose
than a transient estrangement.

So also, the modern state of the industrial arts is of a like cosmopolitan character, in point
of scale, specialisation, and the necessary use of diversified resources, of climate and raw
materials. None of the countries of Europe, e.g., is competent to carry on its industry by
modern technological methods without constantly drawing on resources outside of its national
boundaries. Isolation in this industrial respect, exclusion from the world market, would mean
intolerable loss of efficiency, more pronounced the more fully the given country has taken
over this modern state of the industrial arts. Exclusion from the general body of outlying
resources would seriously cripple any one or all of them, and effectually deprive them of the
usufruct of this technology; and partial exclusion, by prohibitive or protective tariffs and
the like, unavoidably results in a partial lowering of the efficiency of each, and therefore
a reduction of the current well-being among them all together.

Into this cultural and technological system of the modern world the patriotic spirit fits like
dust in the eyes and sand in the bearings. Its net contribution to the outcome is obscuration,
distrust, and retardation at every point where it touches the fortunes of modern mankind. Yet
it is forever present in the counsels of the statesmen and in the affections of the common
man, and it never ceases to command the regard of all men as the prime attribute of manhood
and the final test of the desirable citizen. It is scarcely an exaggeration to say that no
other consideration is allowed in abatement of the claims of patriotic loyalty, and that such
loyalty will be allowed to cover any multitude of sins. When the ancient philosopher described
Man as a "political animal," this, in effect, was what he affirmed; and today the ancient maxim
is as good as new. The patriotic spirit is at cross purposes with modern life, but in any test
case it is found that the claims of life yield before those of patriotism; and any voice that
dissents from this order of things is as a voice crying in the wilderness.

       *       *       *       *       *

To anyone who is inclined to moralise on the singular discrepancies of human life this state
of the case will be fruitful of much profound speculation. The patriotic animus appears to
be an enduring trait of human nature, an ancient heritage that has stood over unshorn from
time immemorial, under the Mendelian rule of the stability of racial types. It is archaic,
not amenable to elimination or enduring suppression, and apparently not appreciably to be mitigated
by reflection, education, experience or selective breeding.

Throughout the historical period, and presumably through an incalculable period of the unrecorded
past, patriotic manslaughter has consistently been weeding out of each successive generation
of men the most patriotic among them; with the net result that the level of patriotic ardor
today appears to be no lower than it ever was. At the same time, with the advance of population,
of culture and of the industrial arts, patriotism has grown increasingly disserviceable; and
it is to all appearance as ubiquitous and as powerful as ever, and is held in as high esteem.

The continued prevalence of this archaic animus among the modern peoples, as well as the fact
that it is universally placed high among the virtues, must be taken to argue that it is, in
its elements, an hereditary trait, of the nature of an inborn impulsive propensity, rather
than a product of habituation. It is, in substance, not something that can be learned and unlearned.
From one generation to another, the allegiance may shift from one nationality to another, but
the fact of unreflecting allegiance at large remains. And it all argues also that no sensible
change has taken effect in the hereditary endowment of the race, at least in this respect,
during the period known by record or by secure inference,--say, since the early Neolithic in
Europe; and this in spite of the fact that there has all this while been opportunity for radical
changes in the European population by cross-breeding, infiltration and displacement of the
several racial stocks that go to make up this population. Hence, on slight reflection the inference
has suggested itself and has gained acceptance that this trait of human nature must presumably
have been serviceable to the peoples of the earlier time, on those levels of savagery or of
the lower barbarism on which the ancestral stocks of the European population first made good
their survival and proved their fitness to people that quarter of the earth. Such, indeed,
is the common view; so common as to pass for matter-of-course, and therefore habitually to
escape scrutiny.

Still it need not follow, as more patient reflection will show. All the European peoples show
much the same animus in this respect; whatever their past history may have been, and whatever
the difference in past experience that might be conceived to have shaped their temperament.
Any difference in the pitch of patriotic conceit and animosity, between the several nationalities
or the several localities, is by no means wide, even in cases where the racial composition
of the population is held to be very different, as, e.g., between the peoples on the Baltic
seaboard and those on the Mediterranean. In point of fact, in this matter of patriotic animus
there appears to be a wider divergence, temperamentally, between individuals within any one
of these communities than between the common run in any one community and the corresponding
common run in any other. But even such divergence of individual temper in respect of patriotism
as is to be met with, first and last, is after all surprisingly small in view of the scope
for individual variation which this European population would seem to offer.

       *       *       *       *       *

These peoples of Europe, all and several, are hybrids compounded out of the same run of racial
elements, but mixed in varying proportions. On any parallel of latitude--taken in the climatic
rather than in the geometric sense--the racial composition of the west-European population
will be much the same, virtually identical in effect, although always of a hybrid complexion;
whereas on any parallel of longitude--also in the climatic sense--the racial composition will
vary progressively, but always within the limits of the same general scheme of hybridisation,--the
variation being a variation in the proportion in which the several racial elements are present
in any given case. But in no case does a notable difference in racial composition coincide
with a linguistic or national frontier. But in point of patriotic animus these European peoples
are one as good as another, whether the comparison be traced on parallels of latitude or of
longitude. And the inhabitants of each national territory, or of each detail locality, appear
also to run surprisingly uniform in respect of their patriotic spirit.

Heredity in any such community of hybrids will, superficially, appear to run somewhat haphazard.
There will, of course, be no traceable difference between social or economic classes, in point
of heredity,--as is visibly the case in Christendom. But variation--of an apparently haphazard
description--will be large and ubiquitous among the individuals of such a populace. Indeed,
it is a matter of course and of easy verification that individual variation within such a hybrid
stock will greatly exceed the extreme differences that may subsist between the several racial
types that have gone to produce the hybrid stock. Such is the case of the European peoples.
The inhabitants vary greatly among themselves, both in physical and in mental traits, as would
be expected; and the variation between individuals in point of patriotic animus should accordingly
also be expected to be extremely wide,--should, in effect, greatly exceed the difference, if
any, in this respect between the several racial elements engaged in the European population.
Some appreciable difference in this respect there appears to be, between individuals; but individual
divergence from the normal or average appears always to be of a sporadic sort,--it does not
run on class lines, whether of occupation, status or property, nor does it run at all consistently
from parent to child. When all is told the argument returns to the safe ground that these variations
in point of patriotic animus are sporadic and inconsequential, and do not touch the general
proposition that, one with another, the inhabitants of Europe and the European Colonies are
sufficiently patriotic, and that the average endowment in this respect runs with consistent
uniformity across all differences of time, place and circumstance. It would, in fact, be extremely
hazardous to affirm that there is a sensible difference in the ordinary pitch of patriotic
sentiment as between any two widely diverse samples of these hybrid populations, in spite of
the fact that the diversity in visible physical traits may be quite pronounced.

In short, the conclusion seems safe, on the whole, that in this respect the several racial
stocks that have gone to produce the existing populations of Christendom have all been endowed
about as richly one as another. Patriotism appears to be a ubiquitous trait, at least among
the races and peoples of Christendom. From which it should follow, that since there is, and
has from the beginning been, no differential advantage favoring one racial stock or one fashion
of hybrid as against another, in this matter of patriotic animus, there should also be no ground
of selective survival or selective elimination on this account as between these several races
and peoples. So that the undisturbed and undiminished prevalence of this trait among the European
population, early or late, argues nothing as to its net serviceability or disserviceability
under any of the varying conditions of culture and technology to which these Europeans have
been subjected, first and last; except that it has, in any case, not proved so disserviceable
under the conditions prevailing hitherto as to result in the extinction of these Europeans,
one with another.[4]

[Footnote 4: For a more extended discussion of this matter, cf. Imperial Germany and the Industrial
Revolution, ch. i. and Supplementary Notes i. and ii.]

The patriotic frame of mind has been spoken of above as if it were an hereditary trait, something
after the fashion of a Mendelian unit character. Doubtless this is not a competent account
of the matter; but the present argument scarcely needs a closer analysis. Still, in a measure
to quiet title and avoid annoyance, it may be noted that this patriotic animus is of the nature
of a "frame of mind" rather than a Mendelian unit character; that it so involves a concatenation
of several impulsive propensities (presumably hereditary); and that both the concatenation
and the special mode and amplitude of the response are a product of habituation, very largely
of the nature of conventionalised use and wont. What is said above, therefore, goes little
farther than saying that the underlying aptitudes requisite to this patriotic frame of mind
are heritable, and that use and wont as bearing on this point run with sufficient uniformity
to bring a passably uniform result. It may be added that in this concatenation spoken of there
seems to be comprised, ordinarily, that sentimental attachment to habitat and custom that is
called love of home, or in its accentuated expression, home-sickness; so also an invidious
self-complacency, coupled with a gregarious bent which gives the invidious comparison a group
content; and further, commonly if not invariably, a bent of abnegation, self-abasement, subservience,
or whatever it may best be called, that inclines the bearer unreasoningly and unquestioningly
to accept and serve a prescriptive ideal given by custom or by customary authority.

       *       *       *       *       *

The conclusion would therefore provisionally run to the effect that under modern conditions
the patriotic animus is wholly a disserviceable trait in the spiritual endowment of these peoples,--in
so far as bears on the material conditions of life unequivocally, and as regards the cultural
interests more at large presumptively; whereas there is no assured ground for a discriminating
opinion as touches its possible utility or disutility at any remote period in the past. There
is, of course, always room for the conservative estimate that, as the possession of this spiritual
trait has not hitherto resulted in the extinction of the race, so it may also in the calculable
future continue to bring no more grievous results than a degree of mischief, without even stopping
or greatly retarding the increase of population.

All this, of course, is intended to apply only so far as it goes. It must not be taken as intending
to say any least word in derogation of those high qualities that inspire the patriotic citizen.
In its economic, biological and cultural incidence patriotism appears to be an untoward trait
of human nature; which has, of course, nothing to say as to its moral excellence, its aesthetic
value, or its indispensability to a worthy life. No doubt, it is in all these respects deserving
of all the esteem and encomiums that fall to its share. Indeed, its well-known moral and aesthetic
value, as well as the reprobation that is visited on any shortcomings in this respect, signify,
for the purposes of the present argument, nothing more than that the patriotic animus meets
the unqualified approval of men because they are, all and several, infected with it. It is
evidence of the ubiquitous, intimate and ineradicable presence of this quality in human nature;
all the more since it continues untiringly to be held in the highest esteem in spite of the
fact that a modicum of reflection should make its disserviceability plain to the meanest understanding.
No higher praise of moral excellence, and no profounder test of loyalty, can be asked than
this current unreserved commendation of a virtue that makes invariably for damage and discomfort.
The virtuous impulse must be deep-seated and indefeasible that drives men incontinently to
do good that evil may come of it. "Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him."

In the light--and it is a dim and wavering light--of the archaeological evidence, helped out
by circumstantial evidence from such parallel or analogous instances as are afforded by existing
communities on a comparable level of culture, one may venture more or less confidently on a
reconstruction of the manner of life among the early Europeans, of early neolithic times and
later.[5] And so one may form some conception of the part played by this patriotic animus among
those beginnings, when, if not the race, at least its institutions were young; and when the
native temperament of these peoples was tried out and found fit to survive through the age-long
and slow-moving eras of stone and bronze. In this connection, it appears safe to assume that
since early neolithic times no sensible change has taken effect in the racial complexion of
the European peoples; and therefore no sensible change in their spiritual and mental make-up.
So that in respect of the spiritual elements that go to make up this patriotic animus the Europeans
of today will be substantially identical with the Europeans of that early time. The like is
true as regards those other traits of temperament that come in question here, as being included
among the stable characteristics that still condition the life of these peoples under the altered
circumstances of the modern age.

[Footnote 5: Cf. Imperial Germany and the Industrial Revolution, as above.]

The difference between prehistoric Europe and the present state of these peoples resolves itself
on analysis into a difference in the state of the industrial arts, together with such institutional
changes as have come on in the course of working out this advance in the industrial arts. The
habits and the exigencies of life among these peoples have greatly changed; whereas in temperament
and capacities the peoples that now live by and under the rule of this altered state of the
industrial arts are the same as they were. It is to be noted, therefore, that the fact of their
having successfully come through the long ages of prehistory by the use of this mental and
spiritual endowment can not be taken to argue that these peoples are thereby fit to meet the
exigencies of this later and gravely altered age; nor will it do to assume that because these
peoples have themselves worked out this modern culture and its technology, therefore it must
all be suitable for their use and conducive to their biological success. The single object
lesson of the modern urban community, with its endless requirements in the way of sanitation,
police, compulsory education, charities,--all this and many other discrepancies in modern life
should enjoin caution on anyone who is inclined off-hand to hold that because modern men have
created these conditions, therefore these must be the most suitable conditions of life for
modern mankind.

In the beginning, that is to say in the European beginning, men lived in small and close groups.
Control was close within the group, and the necessity of subordinating individual gains and
preferences to the common good was enjoined on the group by the exigencies of the case, on
pain of common extinction. The situation and usages of existing Eskimo villages may serve to
illustrate and enforce the argument on this head. The solidarity of sentiment necessary to
support the requisite solidarity of action in the case would be a prime condition of survival
in any racial stock exposed to the conditions which surrounded these early Europeans. This
needful sense of solidarity would touch not simply or most imperatively the joint prestige
of the group, but rather the joint material interests; and would enforce a spirit of mutual
support and dependence. Which would be rather helped than hindered by a jealous attitude of
joint prestige; so long as no divergent interests of members within the group were in a position
to turn this state of the common sentiment to their own particular advantage.

This state of the case will have lasted for a relatively long time; long enough to have tested
the fitness of these peoples for that manner of life,--longer, no doubt, than the interval
that has elapsed since history began. Special interests--e.g., personal and family interests--will
have been present and active in these days of the beginning; but so long as the group at large
was small enough to admit of a close neighborly contact throughout its extent and throughout
the workday routine of life, at the same time that it was too small and feeble to allow any
appreciable dissipation of its joint energies in such pursuit of selfish gains as would run
counter to the paramount business of the common livelihood, so long the sense of a common livelihood
and a joint fortune would continue to hold any particularist ambitions effectually in check.
Had it fallen out otherwise, the story of the group in question would have been ended, and
another and more suitably endowed type of men would have taken the place vacated by its extinction.

With a sensible advance in the industrial arts the scale of operations would grow larger, and
the group more numerous and extensive. The margin between production and subsistence would
also widen and admit additional scope for individual ambitions and personal gains. And as this
process of growth and increasing productive efficiency went on, the control exercised by neighborly
surveillance, through the sentiment of the common good as against the self-seeking pursuits
of individuals and sub-groups, would gradually slacken; until by progressive disuse it would
fall into a degree of abeyance; to be called into exercise and incite to concerted action only
in the face of unusual exigencies touching the common fortunes of the group at large, or on
persuasion that the collective interest of the group at large was placed in jeopardy in the
molestation of one and another of its members from without. The group's prestige at least would
be felt to suffer in the defeat or discourtesy suffered by any of its members at the hands
of any alien; and, under compulsion of the ancient sense of group solidarity, whatever material
hardship or material gain might so fall to individual members in their dealings with the alien
would pass easy scrutiny as material detriment or gain inuring to the group at large,--in the
apprehension of men whose sense of community interest is inflamed with a jealous disposition
to safeguard their joint prestige.

With continued advance in the industrial arts the circumstances conditioning life will undergo
a progressive change of such a character that the joint interest of the group at large, in
the material respect, will progressively be less closely bound up with the material fortunes
of any particular member or members; until in the course of time and change there will, in
effect, in ordinary times be no general and inclusive community of material interest binding
the members together in a common fortune and working for a common livelihood. As the rights
of ownership begin to take effect, so that the ownership of property and the pursuit of a livelihood
under the rules of ownership come to govern men's economic relations, these material concerns
will cease to be a matter of undivided joint interest, and will fall into the shape of interest
in severalty. So soon and so far as this institution of ownership or property takes effect,
men's material interests cease to run on lines of group solidarity. Solely, or almost solely,
in the exceptional case of defense against a predatory incursion from outside, do the members
of the group have a common interest of a material kind. Progressively as the state of the arts
advances, the industrial organisation advances to a larger scale and a more extensive specialisation,
with increasing divergence among individual interests and individual fortunes; and intercourse
over larger distances grows easier and makes a larger grouping practicable; which enables a
larger, prompter and more effective mobilisation of forces with which to defend or assert any
joint claims. But by the same move it also follows, or at least it appears uniformly to have
followed in the European case, that the accumulation of property and the rights of ownership
have progressively come into the first place among the material interests of these peoples;
while anything like a community of usufruct has imperceptibly fallen into the background, and
has presently gone virtually into abeyance, except as an eventual recourse in extremis for
the common defense. Property rights have displaced community of usufruct; and invidious distinctions
as between persons, sub-groups, and classes have displaced community of prestige in the workday
routine of these peoples; and the distinctions between contrasted persons or classes have come
to rest, in an ever increasing degree, directly or indirectly, on invidious comparisons in
respect of pecuniary standing rather than on personal affiliation with the group at large.

So, with the advance of the industrial arts a differentiation of a new character sets in and
presently grows progressively more pronounced and more effectual, giving rise to a regrouping
on lines that run regardless of those frontiers that divide one community from another for
purposes of patriotic emulation. So far as it comes chiefly and typically in question here,
this regrouping takes place on two distinct but somewhat related principles of contrast: that
of wealth and poverty, and that of master and servant, or authority and obedience. The material
interests of the population in this way come to be divided between the group of those who own
and those who command, on the one hand, and of those who work and who obey, on the other hand.

Neither of these two contrasted categories of persons have any direct material interest in
the maintenance of the patriotic community; or at any rate no such interest as should reasonably
induce them to spend their own time and substance in support of the political (patriotic) organisation
within which they live. It is only in so far as one or another of these interests looks for
a more than proportionate share in any prospective gain from the joint enterprise, that the
group or class in question can reasonably be counted on to bear its share in the joint venture.
And it is only when and in so far as their particular material or self-regarding interest is
reenforced by patriotic conceit, that they can be counted on to spend themselves in furtherance
of the patriotic enterprise, without the assurance of a more than proportionate share in any
gains that may be held in prospect from any such joint enterprise; and it is only in its patriotic
bearing that the political community continues to be a joint venture. That is to say, in more
generalised terms, through the development of the rights of property, and of such like prescriptive
claims of privilege and prerogative, it has come about that other community interests have
fallen away, until the collective prestige remains as virtually the sole community interest
which can hold the sentiment of the group in a bond of solidarity.

To one or another of these several interested groups or classes within the community the political
organisation may work a benefit; but only to one or another, not to each and several, jointly
or collectively. Since by no chance will the benefit derived from such joint enterprise on
the part of the community at large equal the joint cost; in as much as all joint enterprise
of the kind that looks to material advantage works by one or another method of inhibition and
takes effect, if at all, by lowering the aggregate efficiency of the several countries concerned,
with a view to the differential gain of one at the cost of another. So, e.g., a protective
tariff is plainly a conspiracy in restraint of trade, with a view to benefit the conspirators
by hindering their competitors. The aggregate cost to the community at large of such an enterprise
in retardation is always more than the gains it brings to those who may benefit by it.

In so speaking of the uses to which the common man's patriotic devotion may be turned, there
is no intention to underrate its intrinsic value as a genial and generous trait of human nature.
Doubtless it is best and chiefly to be appreciated as a spiritual quality that beautifies and
ennobles its bearer, and that endows him with the full stature of manhood, quite irrespective
of ulterior considerations. So it is to be conceded without argument that this patriotic animus
is a highly meritorious frame of mind, and that it has an aesthetic value scarcely to be overstated
in the farthest stretch of poetic license. But the question of its serviceability to the modern
community, in any other than this decorative respect, and particularly its serviceability to
the current needs of the common man in such a modern community, is not touched by such an admission;
nor does this recognition of its generous spiritual nature afford any help toward answering
a further question as to how and with what effect this animus may be turned to account by anyone
who is in position to make use of the forces which it sets free.

Among Christian nations there still is, on the whole, a decided predilection for that ancient
and authentic line of national repute that springs from warlike prowess. This repute for warlike
prowess is what first comes to mind among civilised peoples when speaking of national greatness.
And among those who have best preserved this warlike ideal of worth, the patriotic ambition
is likely to converge on the prestige of their sovereign; so that it takes the concrete form
of personal loyalty to a master, and so combines or coalesces with a servile habit of mind.

But peace hath its victories no less renowned than war, it is said; and peaceable folk of a
patriotic temper have learned to make the best of their meager case and have found self-complacency
in these victories of the peaceable order. So it may broadly be affirmed that all nations look
with complacency on their own peculiar Culture--the organised complex of habits of thought
and of conduct by which their own routine of life is regulated--as being in some way worthier
than the corresponding habits of their neighbors. The case of the German Culture has latterly
come under a strong light in this way. But while it may be that no other nation has been so
naive as to make a concerted profession of faith to the effect that their own particular way
of life is altogether commendable and is the only fashion of civilisation that is fit to survive;
yet it will scarcely be an extravagance to assert that in their own secret mind these others,
too, are blest with much the same consciousness of unique worth. Conscious virtue of this kind
is a good and sufficient ground for patriotic inflation, so far as it goes. It commonly does
not go beyond a defensive attitude, however. Now and again, as in the latterday German animation
on this head, these phenomena of national use and wont may come to command such a degree of
popular admiration as will incite to an aggressive or proselyting campaign.

In all this there is nothing of a self-seeking or covetous kind. These aspirations and enthusiasms
would perhaps be rated as Quixotic by men whose horizon is bounded by the main chance; but
they make up that substance of things hoped for that inflates those headlong patriotic animosities
that stir universal admiration.

So also, men find an invidious distinction in such matters of physical magnitude as their country's
area, the number of its population, the size of its cities, the extent of its natural resources,
its aggregate wealth and its wealth per capita, its merchant marine and its foreign trade.
As a ground of invidious complacency these phenomena of physical magnitude and pecuniary traffic
are no better and no worse than such immaterial assets as the majesty of the sovereign or the
perfections of the language. They are matters in which the common man is concerned only by
the accident of domicile, and his only connection with these things is an imaginary joint interest
in their impressiveness. To these things he has contributed substantially nothing, and from
them he derives no other merit or advantage than a patriotic inflation. He takes pride in these
things in an invidious way, and there is no good reason why he should not; just as there is
also no good reason why he should, apart from the fact that the common man is so constituted
that he, mysteriously, takes pride in these things that concern him not.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of the several groups or classes of persons within the political frontiers, whose particular
interests run systematically at cross purposes with those of the community at large under modern
conditions, the class of masters, rulers, authorities,--or whatever term may seem most suitable
to designate that category of persons whose characteristic occupation is to give orders and
command deference,--of the several orders and conditions of men these are, in point of substantial
motive and interest, most patently at variance with all the rest, or with the fortunes of the
common man. The class will include civil and military authorities and whatever nobility there
is of a prescriptive and privileged kind. The substantial interest of these classes in the
common welfare is of the same kind as the interest which a parasite has in the well-being of
his host; a sufficiently substantial interest, no doubt, but there is in this relation nothing
like a community of interest. Any gain on the part of the community at large will materially
serve the needs of this group of personages, only in so far as it may afford them a larger
volume or a wider scope for what has in latterday colloquial phrase been called "graft." These
personages are, of course, not to be spoken of with disrespect or with the slightest inflection
of discourtesy. They are all honorable men. Indeed they afford the conventional pattern of
human dignity and meritorious achievement, and the "Fountain of Honor" is found among them.
The point of the argument is only that their material or other self-regarding interests are
of such a nature as to be furthered by the material wealth of the community, and more particularly
by the increasing volume of the body politic; but only with the proviso that this material
wealth and this increment of power must accrue without anything like a corresponding cost to
this class. At the same time, since this class of the superiors is in some degree a specialised
organ of prestige, so that their value, and therefore their tenure, both in the eyes of the
community and in their own eyes, is in the main a "prestige value" and a tenure by prestige;
and since the prestige that invests their persons is a shadow cast by the putative worth of
the community at large, it follows that their particular interest in the joint prestige is
peculiarly alert and insistent. But it follows also that these personages cannot of their own
substance or of their own motion contribute to this collective prestige in the same proportion
in which it is necessary for them to draw on it in support of their own prestige value. It
would, in other words, be a patent absurdity to call on any of the current ruling classes,
dynasties, nobility, military and diplomatic corps, in any of the nations of Europe, e.g.,
to preserve their current dignity and command the deference that is currently accorded them,
by recourse to their own powers and expenditure of their own substance, without the usufruct
of the commonalty whose organ of dignity they are. The current prestige value which they enjoy
is beyond their unaided powers to create or maintain, without the usufruct of the community.
Such an enterprise does not lie within the premises of the case.

In this bearing, therefore, the first concern with which these personages are necessarily occupied
is the procurement and retention of a suitable usufruct in the material resources and good-will
of a sufficiently large and industrious population. The requisite good-will in these premises
is called loyalty, and its retention by the line of personages that so trade on prestige rests
on a superinduced association of ideas, whereby the national honour comes to be confounded
in popular apprehension with the prestige of these personages who have the keeping of it. But
the potentates and the establishments, civil and military, on whom this prestige value rests
will unavoidably come into invidious comparison with others of their kind; and, as invariably
happens in matters of invidious comparison, the emulative needs of all the competitors for
prestige are "indefinitely extensible," as the phrase of the economists has it. Each and several
of them incontinently needs a further increment of prestige, and therefore also a further increment
of the material assets in men and resources that are needful as ways and means to assert and
augment the national honor.

It is true, the notion that their prestige value is in any degree conditioned by the material
circumstances and the popular imagination of the underlying nation is distasteful to many of
these vicars of the national honour. They will incline rather to the persuasion that this prestige
value is a distinctive attribute, of a unique order, intrinsic to their own persons. But, plainly,
any such detached line of magnates, notables, kings and mandarins, resting their notability
on nothing more substantial than a slightly sub-normal intelligence and a moderately scrofulous
habit of body could not long continue to command that eager deference that is accounted their
due. Such a picture of majesty would be sadly out of drawing. There is little conviction and
no great dignity to be drawn from the unaided pronouncement:

   "We're here because,
   We're here because,
   We're here because
   We're here,"

even when the doggerel is duly given the rhetorical benefit of a "Tenure by the Grace of God."
The personages that carry this dignity require the backing of a determined and patriotic populace
in support of their prestige value, and they commonly have no great difficulty in procuring
it. And their prestige value is, in effect, proportioned to the volume of material resources
and patriotic credulity that can be drawn on for its assertion. It is true, their draught on
the requisite sentimental and pecuniary support is fortified with large claims of serviceability
to the common good, and these claims are somewhat easily, indeed eagerly, conceded and acted
upon; although the alleged benefit to the common good will scarcely be visible except in the
light of glory shed by the blazing torch of patriotism.

In so far as it is of a material nature the benefit which the constituted authorities so engage
to contribute to the common good, or in other words to confer on the common man, falls under
two heads: defense against aggression from without; and promotion of the community's material
gain. It is to be presumed that the constituted authorities commonly believe more or less implicitly
in their own professions in so professing to serve the needs of the common man in these respects.
The common defense is a sufficiently grave matter, and doubtless it claims the best affections
and endeavour of the citizen; but it is not a matter that should claim much attention at this
point in the argument, as bearing on the service rendered the common man by the constituted
authorities, taken one with another. Any given governmental establishment at home is useful
in this respect only as against another governmental establishment elsewhere. So that on the
slightest examination it resolves itself into a matter of competitive patriotic enterprise,
as between the patriotic aspirations of different nationalities led by different governmental
establishments; and the service so rendered by the constituted authorities in the aggregate
takes on the character of a remedy for evils of their own creation. It is invariably a defense
against the concerted aggressions of other patriots. Taken in the large, the common defense
of any given nation becomes a detail of the competitive struggle between rival nationalities
animated with a common spirit of patriotic enterprise and led by authorities constituted for
this competitive purpose.

Except on a broad basis of patriotic devotion, and except under the direction of an ambitious
governmental establishment, no serious international aggression is to be had. The common defense,
therefore, is to be taken as a remedy for evils arising out of the working of the patriotic
spirit that animates mankind, as brought to bear under a discretionary authority; and in any
balance to be struck between the utility and disutility of this patriotic spirit and of its
service in the hands of the constituted authorities, it will have to be cancelled out as being
at the best a mitigation of some of the disorders brought on by the presence of national governments
resting on patriotic loyalty at large.

But this common defense is by no means a vacant rubric in any attempted account of modern national
enterprise. It is the commonplace and conclusive plea of the dynastic statesmen and the aspiring
warlords, and it is the usual blind behind which events are put in train for eventual hostilities.
Preparation for the common defense also appears unfailingly to eventuate in hostilities. With
more or less bona fides the statesmen and warriors plead the cause of the common defense, and
with patriotic alacrity the common man lends himself to the enterprise aimed at under that
cover. In proportion as the resulting equipment for defense grows great and becomes formidable,
the range of items which a patriotically biased nation are ready to include among the claims
to be defended grows incontinently larger, until by the overlapping of defensive claims between
rival nationalities the distinction between defense and aggression disappears, except in the
biased fancy of the rival patriots.

Of course, no reflections are called for here on the current American campaign of "Preparedness."
Except for the degree of hysteria it appears to differ in no substantial respect from the analogous
course of auto-intoxication among the nationalities of Europe, which came to a head in the
current European situation. It should conclusively serve the turn for any self-possessed observer
to call to mind that all the civilised nations of warring Europe are, each and several, convinced
that they are fighting a defensive war.

The aspiration of all right-minded citizens is presumed to be "Peace with Honour." So that
first, as well as last, among those national interests that are to be defended, and in the
service of which the substance and affections of the common man are enlisted under the aegis
of the national prowess, comes the national prestige, as a matter of course. And the constituted
authorities are doubtless sincere and single-minded in their endeavors to advance and defend
the national honour, particularly those constituted authorities that hold their place of authority
on grounds of fealty; since the national prestige in such a case coalesces with the prestige
of the nation's ruler in much the same degree in which the national sovereignty devolves upon
the person of its ruler. In so defending or advancing the national prestige, such a dynastic
or autocratic overlord, together with the other privileged elements assisting and dependent
on him, is occupied with his own interest; his own tenure is a tenure by prestige, and the
security of his tenure lies in the continued maintenance of that popular fancy that invests
his person with this national prestige and so constitutes him and his retinue of notables and
personages its keeper.

But it is uniformly insisted by the statesmen--potentates, notables, kings and mandarins--that
this aegis of the national prowess in their hands covers also many interests of a more substantial
and more tangible kind. These other, more tangible interests of the community have also a value
of a direct and personal sort to the dynasty and its hierarchy of privileged subalterns, in
that it is only by use of the material forces of the nation that the dynastic prestige can
be advanced and maintained. The interest of such constituted authorities in the material welfare
of the nation is consequently grave and insistent; but it is evidently an interest of a special
kind and is subject to strict and peculiar limitations. The common good, in the material respect,
interests the dynastic statesman only as a means to dynastic ends; that is to say, only in
so far as it can be turned to account in the achievement of dynastic aims. These aims are "The
Kingdom, the Power and the Glory," as the sacred formula phrases the same conception in another
bearing.

That is to say, the material welfare of the nation is a means to the unfolding of the dynastic
power; provided always that this material welfare is not allowed to run into such ramifications
as will make the commonwealth an unwieldy instrument in the hands of the dynastic statesmen.
National welfare is to the purpose only in so far as it conduces to political success, which
is always a question of warlike success in the last resort. The limitation which this consideration
imposes on the government's economic policy are such as will make the nation a self-sufficient
or self-balanced economic commonwealth. It must be a self-balanced commonwealth at least in
such measure as will make it self-sustaining in case of need, in all those matters that bear
directly on warlike efficiency.

Of course, no community can become fully self-sustaining under modern conditions, by use of
the modern state of the industrial arts, except by recourse to such drastic measures of repression
as would reduce its total efficiency in an altogether intolerable degree. This will hold true
even of those nations who, like Russia or the United States, are possessed of extremely extensive
territories and extremely large and varied resources; but it applies with greatly accentuated
force to smaller and more scantily furnished territorial units. Peoples living under modern
conditions and by use of the modern state of the industrial arts necessarily draw on all quarters
of the habitable globe for materials and products which they can procure to the best advantage
from outside their own special field so long as they are allowed access to these outlying sources
of supply; and any arbitrary limitation on this freedom of traffic makes the conditions of
life that much harder, and lowers the aggregate efficiency of the community by that much. National
self-sufficiency is to be achieved only by a degree of economic isolation; and such a policy
of economic isolation involves a degree of impoverishment and lowered efficiency, but it will
also leave the nation readier for warlike enterprise on such a scale as its reduced efficiency
will compass.

So that the best that can be accomplished along this line by the dynastic statesmen is a shrewd
compromise, embodying such a degree of isolation and inhibition as will leave the country passably
self-sufficient in case of need, without lowering the national efficiency to such a point as
to cripple its productive forces beyond what will be offset by the greater warlike readiness
that is so attained. The point to which such a policy of isolation and sufficiency will necessarily
be directed is that measure of inhibition that will yield the most facile and effective ways
and means of warlike enterprise, the largest product of warlike effectiveness to be had on
multiplying the nation's net efficiency into its readiness to take the field.

Into any consideration of this tactical problem a certain subsidiary factor enters, in that
the patriotic temper of the nation is always more or less affected by such an economic policy.
The greater the degree of effectual isolation and discrimination embodied in the national policy,
the greater will commonly be its effect on popular sentiment in the way of national animosity
and spiritual self-sufficiency; which may be an asset of great value for the purposes of warlike
enterprise.

Plainly, any dynastic statesman who should undertake to further the common welfare regardless
of its serviceability for warlike enterprise would be defeating his own purpose. He would,
in effect, go near to living up to his habitual professions touching international peace, instead
of professing to live up to them, as the exigencies of his national enterprise now conventionally
require him to do. In effect, he would be functus officio.

There are two great administrative instruments available for this work of repression and national
self-sufficiency at the hands of the imperialistic statesman: the protective tariff, and commercial
subvention. The two are not consistently to be distinguished from one another at all points,
and each runs out into a multifarious convolution of variegated details; but the principles
involved are, after all, fairly neat and consistent. The former is of the nature of a conspiracy
in restraint of trade by repression; the latter, a conspiracy to the like effect by subsidised
monopoly; both alike act to check the pursuit of industry in given lines by artificially increasing
the cost of production for given individuals or classes of producers, and both alike impose
a more than proportionate cost on the community within which they take effect. Incidentally,
both of these methods of inhibition bring a degree, though a less degree, of hardship, to the
rest of the industrial world.

All this is matter of course to all economic students, and it should, reasonably, be plain
to all intelligent persons; but its voluble denial by interested parties, as well as the easy
credulity with which patriotic citizens allow themselves to accept the sophistries offered
in defense of these measures of inhibition, has made it seem worth while here to recall these
commonplaces of economic science.

The ground of this easy credulity is not so much infirmity of intellect as it is an exuberance
of sentiment, although it may reasonably be believed that its more pronounced manifestations--as,
e.g., the high protective tariff--can be had only by force of a formidable cooperation of the
two. The patriotic animus is an invidious sentiment of joint prestige; and it needs no argument
or documentation to bear out the affirmation that its bias will lend a color of merit and expediency
to any proposed measure that can, however speciously, promise an increase of national power
or prestige. So that when the statesmen propose a policy of inhibition and mitigated isolation
on the professed ground that such a policy will strengthen the nation economically by making
it economically self-supporting, as well as ready for any warlike adventure, the patriotic
citizen views the proposed measures through the rosy haze of national aspirations and lets
the will to believe persuade him that whatever conduces to a formidable national battle-front
will also contribute to the common good. At the same time all these national conspiracies in
restraint of trade are claimed, with more or less reason, to inflict more or less harm on rival
nationalities with whom economic relations are curtailed; and patriotism being an invidious
sentiment, the patriotic citizen finds comfort in the promise of mischief to these others,
and is all the more prone to find all kinds of merit in proposals that look to such an invidious
outcome. In any community imbued with an alert patriotic spirit, the fact that any given circumstance,
occurrence or transaction can be turned to account as a means of invidious distinction or invidious
discrimination against humanity beyond the national pale, will always go far to procure acceptance
of it as being also an article of substantial profit to the community at large, even though
the slightest unbiased scrutiny would find it of no ascertainable use in any other bearing
than that of invidious mischief. And whatever will bear interpretation as an increment of the
nation's power or prowess, in comparison with rival nationalities, will always be securely
counted as an item of joint credit, and will be made to serve the collective conceit as an
invidious distinction; and patriotic credulity will find it meritorious also in other respects.

So, e.g., it is past conception that such a patent imbecility as a protective tariff should
enlist the support of any ordinarily intelligent community except by the help of some such
chauvinistic sophistry. So also, the various royal establishments of Europe, e.g., afford an
extreme but therefore all the more convincing illustration of the same logical fallacy. These
establishments and personages are great and authentic repositories of national prestige, and
they are therefore unreflectingly presumed by their several aggregations of subjects to be
of some substantial use also in some other bearing; but it would be a highly diverting exhibition
of credulity for any outsider to fall into that amazing misconception. But the like is manifestly
true of commercial turnover and export trade among modern peoples; although on this head the
infatuation is so ingrained and dogmatic that even a rank outsider is expected to accept the
fallacy without reflection, on pain of being rated as unsafe or unsound. Such matters again,
as the dimensions of the national territory, or the number of the population and the magnitude
of the national resources, are still and have perhaps always been material for patriotic exultation,
and are fatuously believed to have some great significance for the material fortunes of the
common man; although it should be plain on slight reflection that under modern conditions of
ownership, these things, one and all, are of no consequence to the common man except as articles
of prestige to stimulate his civic pride. The only conjuncture under which these and the like
national holdings can come to have a meaning as joint or collective assets would arise in case
of a warlike adventure carried to such extremities as would summarily cancel vested rights
of ownership and turn them to warlike uses. While the rights of ownership hold, the common
man, who does not own these things, draws no profit from their inclusion in the national domain;
indeed, he is at some cost to guarantee their safe tenure by their rightful owners.

In so pursuing their quest of the Kingdom, the Power and the Glory, by use of the national
resources and by sanction of the national spirit, the constituted authorities also assume the
guardianship of sundry material interests that are presumed to touch the common good; such
as security of person and property in dealings with aliens, whether at home or abroad; security
of investment and trade, and vindication of their citizens before the law in foreign parts;
and, chiefly and ubiquitously, furtherance and extension of the national trade into foreign
parts, particularly of the export trade, on terms advantageous to the traders of the nation.

The last named of these advantages is the one on which stress is apt to fall in the argument
of all those who advocate an unfolding of national power, as being a matter of vital material
benefit to the common man. The other items indicated above, it is plain on the least reflection,
are matters of slight if any material consequence to him. The common man--that is ninety-nine
and a fraction in one hundred of the nation's common men--has no dealings with aliens in foreign
parts, as capitalist, trader, missionary or wayfaring man, and has no occasion for security
of person or property under circumstances that raise any remotest question of the national
prowess or the national prestige; nor does he seek or aspire to trade to foreign parts on any
terms, equitable or otherwise, or to invest capital among aliens under foreign rule, or to
exploit concessions or take orders, for acceptance or delivery; nor, indeed, does he at all
commonly come into even that degree of contact with abroad that is implied in the purchase
of foreign securities. Virtually the sole occasion on which he comes in touch with the world
beyond the frontier is when, and if, he goes away from home as an emigrant, and so ceases to
enjoy the tutelage of the nation's constituted authorities. But the common man, in point of
fact, is a home-keeping body, who touches foreign parts and aliens outside the national frontiers
only at the second or third remove, if at all, in the occasional purchase of foreign products,
or in the sale of goods that may find their way abroad after he has lost sight of them. The
exception to this general rule would be found in the case of those under-sized nations that
are too small to contain the traffic in which their commonplace population are engaged, and
that have neither national prowess nor national prestige to fall back on in a conceivable case
of need,--and whose citizens, individually, appear to be as fortunately placed in their workday
foreign relations, without a background of prowess and prestige, as the citizens of the great
powers who are most abundantly provided in these respects.

With wholly negligible exceptions, these matters touch the needs or the sensibilities of the
common man only through the channel of the national honour, which may be injured in the hardships
suffered by his compatriots in foreign parts, or which may, again, be repaired or enhanced
by the meritorious achievements of the same compatriots; of whose existence he will commonly
have no other or more substantial evidence, and in whose traffic he has no share other than
this vicarious suffering of vague and remote indignity or vainglory by force of the wholly
fortuitous circumstance that they are (inscrutably) his compatriots. These immaterial goods
of vicarious prestige are, of course, not to be undervalued, nor is the fact to be overlooked
or minimised that they enter into the sum total of the common citizen's "psychic income," for
whatever they may foot up to; but evidently their consideration takes us back to the immaterial
category of prestige value, from which the argument just now was hopefully departing with a
view to consideration of the common man's material interest in that national enterprise about
which patriotic aspirations turn.

These things, then, are matters in which the common man has an interest only as they have a
prestige value. But there need be no question as to their touching his sensibilities and stirring
him to action, and even to acts of bravery and self-sacrifice. Indignity or ill treatment of
his compatriots in foreign parts, even when well deserved, as is not infrequently the case,
are resented with a vehemence that is greatly to the common man's credit, and greatly also
to the gain of those patriotic statesmen who find in such grievances their safest and most
reliable raw materials for the production of international difficulty. That he will so respond
to the stimulus of these, materially speaking irrelevant, vicissitudes of good or ill that
touch the fortunes of his compatriots, as known to him by hearsay, bears witness, of course,
to the high quality of his manhood; but it falls very far short of arguing that these promptings
of his patriotic spirit have any value as traits that count toward his livelihood or his economic
serviceability in the community in which he lives. It is all to his credit, and it goes to
constitute him a desirable citizen, in the sense that he is properly amenable to the incitements
of patriotic emulation; but it is none the less to be admitted, however reluctantly, that this
trait of impulsively vicarious indignation or vainglory is neither materially profitable to
himself nor an asset of the slightest economic value to the community in which he lives. Quite
the contrary, in fact. So also is it true that the common man derives no material advantage
from the national success along this line, though he commonly believes that it all somehow
inures to his benefit. It would seem that an ingrown bias of community interest, blurred and
driven by a jealously sensitive patriotic pride, bends his faith uncritically to match his
inclination. His persuasion is a work of preconception rather than of perception.

But the most substantial and most unqualified material benefit currently believed to be derivable
from a large unfolding of national prowess and a wide extension of the national domain is an
increased volume of the nation's foreign trade, particularly of the export trade. "Trade follows
the Flag." And this larger trade and enhanced profit is presumed to inure to the joint benefit
of the citizens. Such is the profession of faith of the sagacious statesmen and such is also
the unreflecting belief of the common man.

It may be left an open question if an unfolding of national prowess and prestige increases
the nation's trade, whether in imports or in exports. There is no available evidence that it
has any effect of the kind. What is not an open question is the patent fact that such an extension
of trade confers no benefit on the common man, who is not engaged in the import or export business.
More particularly does it yield him no advantage at all commensurate with the cost involved
in any endeavour so to increase the volume of trade by increasing the nation's power and extending
its dominion. The profits of trade go not to the common man at large but to the traders whose
capital is invested; and it is a completely idle matter to the common citizen whether the traders
who profit by the nation's trade are his compatriots or not.[6]

[Footnote 6: All this, which should be plain without demonstration, has been repeatedly shown
in the expositions of various peace advocates, typically by Mr. Angell.]

The pacifist argument on the economic futility of national ambitions will commonly rest its
case at this point; having shown as unreservedly as need be that national ambition and all
its works belong of right under that rubric of the litany that speaks of Fire, Flood and Pestilence.
But an hereditary bent of human nature is not to be put out of the way with an argument showing
that it has its disutilities. So with the patriotic animus; it is a factor to be counted with,
rather than to be exorcised.

As has been remarked above, in the course of time and change the advance of the industrial
arts and of the institutions of ownership have taken such a turn that the working system of
industry and business no longer runs on national lines and, indeed, no longer takes account
of national frontiers,--except in so far as the national policies and legislation, arbitrarily
and partially, impose these frontiers on the workings of trade and industry. The effect of
such regulation for political ends is, with wholly negligible exceptions, detrimental to the
efficient working of the industrial system under modern conditions; and it is therefore detrimental
to the material interests of the common citizen. But the case is not the same as regards the
interests of the traders. Trade is a competitive affair, and it is to the advantage of the
traders engaged in any given line of business to extend their own markets and to exclude competing
traders. Competition may be the soul of trade, but monopoly is necessarily the aim of every
trader. And the national organisation is of service to its traders in so far as it shelters
them, wholly or partly, from the competition of traders of other nationalities, or in so far
as it furthers their enterprise by subvention or similar privileges as against their competitors,
whether at home or abroad. The gain that so comes to the nation's traders from any preferential
advantage afforded them by national regulations, or from any discrimination against traders
of foreign nationality, goes to the traders as private gain. It is of no benefit to any of
their compatriots; since there is no community of usufruct that touches these gains of the
traders. So far as concerns his material advantage, it is an idle matter to the common citizen
whether he deals with traders of his own nationality or with aliens; both alike will aim to
buy cheap and sell dear, and will charge him "what the traffic will bear." Nor does it matter
to him whether the gains of this trade go to aliens or to his compatriots; in either case equally
they immediately pass beyond his reach, and are equally removed from any touch of joint interest
on his part. Being private property, under modern law and custom he has no use of them, whether
a national frontier does or does not intervene between his domicile and that of their owner.

These are facts that every man of sound mind knows and acts on without doubt or hesitation
in his own workday affairs. He would scarcely even find amusement in so futile a proposal as
that his neighbor should share his business profits with him for no better reason than that
he is a compatriot. But when the matter is presented as a proposition in national policy and
embroidered with an invocation of his patriotic loyalty the common citizen will commonly be
found credulous enough to accept the sophistry without abatement. His archaic sense of group
solidarity will still lead him at his own cost to favor his trading compatriots by the imposition
of onerous trade regulations for their private advantage, and to interpose obstacles in the
way of alien traders. All this ingenious policy of self-defeat is greatly helped out by the
patriotic conceit of the citizens; who persuade themselves to see in it an accession to the
power and prestige of their own nation and a disadvantage to rival nationalities. It is, indeed,
more than doubtful if such a policy of self-defeat as is embodied in current international
trade discriminations could be insinuated into the legislation of any civilized nation if the
popular intelligence were not so clouded with patriotic animosity as to let a prospective detriment
to their foreign neighbors count as a gain to themselves.

So that the chief material use of the patriotic bent in modern populations, therefore, appears
to be its use to a limited class of persons engaged in foreign trade, or in business that comes
in competition with foreign industry. It serves their private gain by lending effectual countenance
to such restraint of international trade as would not be tolerated within the national domain.
In so doing it has also the secondary and more sinister effect of dividing the nations on lines
of rivalry and setting up irreconcilable claims and ambitions, of no material value but of
far-reaching effect in the way of provocation to further international estrangement and eventual
breach of the peace.

How all this falls in with the schemes of militant statesmen, and further reacts on the freedom
and personal fortunes of the common man, is an extensive and intricate topic, though not an
obscure one; and it has already been spoken of above, perhaps as fully as need be. Except for
their patriotism a breach of the peace among modern peoples could not well be had. So much
will doubtless be assented to as a matter of course. It is also a commonplace of current aphoristic
wisdom that both parties to a warlike adventure in modern times stand to lose, materially;
whatever nominal--that is to say political--gains may be made by one or the other. It has also
appeared from these considerations recited in earlier passages that this patriotic spirit prevails
throughout, among all civilised peoples, and that it pervades one nation about as ubiquitously
as another. Nor is there much evidence of a weakening of this sinister proclivity with the
passage of time or the continued advance in the arts of life. The only civilized nations that
can be counted on as habitually peaceable are those who are so feeble or are so placed as to
be cut off from hope of gain through contention. Vainglorious arrogance may run at a higher
tension among the more backward and boorish nations; but it is not evident that the advance
guard among the civilised peoples are imbued with a less complete national self-complacency.
If the peace is to be kept, therefore, it will have to be kept by and between peoples made
up, in effect, of complete patriots; which comes near being a contradiction in terms. Patriotism
is useful for breaking the peace, not for keeping it. It makes for national pretensions and
international jealously and distrust, with warlike enterprise always in perspective; as a way
to national gain or a recourse in case of need. And there is commonly no settled demarkation
between these two contrasted needs that urge a patriotic people forever to keep one eye on
the chance of a recourse to arms. As has just been remarked above, among civilised peoples
only those nations can be counted on consistently to keep the peace who are so feeble or otherwise
so placed as to be cut off from hope of national gain. And these can apparently be so counted
on only as regards aggression, not as regards the national defense, and only in so far as they
are not drawn into warlike enterprise, collectively, by their more competent neighbors. Even
the feeblest and most futile of them feels in honour bound to take up arms in defense of such
national pretensions as they still may harbour; and all of them harbour such pretensions. In
certain extreme cases, which it might seem invidious to specify more explicitly, it is not
easy to discover any specific reasons for the maintenance of a national establishment, apart
from the vindication of certain national pretensions which would quietly lapse in the absence
of a national establishment on whom their vindication is incumbent.

Of the rest, the greater nations that are spoken of as Powers no such general statement will
hold. These are the peoples who stand, in matters of national concern, on their own initiative;
and the question of peace and war at large is in effect, a question of peace and war among
these Powers. They are not so numerous that they can be sifted into distinct classes, and yet
they differ among themselves in such a way that they may, for the purpose in hand, fairly be
ranged under two distinguishable if not contrasted heads: those which may safely be counted
on spontaneously to take the offensive, and those which will fight on provocation. Typically
of the former description are Germany and Japan. Of the latter are the French and British,
and less confidently the American republic. In any summary statement of this kind Russia will
have to be left on one side as a doubtful case, for reasons to which the argument may return
at a later point; the prospective course of things in Russia is scarcely to be appraised on
the ground of its past. Spain and Italy, being dubious Powers at the best, need not detain
the argument; they are, in the nature of things, subsidiaries who wait on the main chance.
And Austria, with whatever the name may cover, is for the immediate purpose to be counted under
the head of Germany.

There is no invidious comparison intended in so setting off these two classes of nations in
contrast to one another. It is not a contrast of merit and demerit or of prestige. Imperial
Germany and Imperial Japan are, in the nature of things as things go, bent in effect on a disturbance
of the peace,--with a view to advance the cause of their own dominion. On a large view of the
case, such as many German statesmen were in the habit of professing in the years preceding
the great war, it may perhaps appear reasonable to say--as they were in the habit of saying--that
these Imperial Powers are as well within the lines of fair and honest dealing in their campaign
of aggression as the other Powers are in taking a defensive attitude against their aggression.
Some sort of international equity has been pleaded in justification of their demand for an
increased share of dominion. At least it has appeared that these Imperial statesmen have so
persuaded themselves after very mature deliberation; and they have showed great concern to
persuade others of the equity of their Imperial claim to something more than the law would
allow. These sagacious, not to say astute, persons have not only reached a conviction to this
effect, but they have become possessed of this conviction in such plenary fashion that, in
the German case, they have come to admit exceptions or abatement of the claim only when and
in so far as the campaign of equitable aggression on which they had entered has been proved
impracticable by the fortunes of war.

With some gift for casuistry one may, at least conceivably, hold that the felt need of Imperial
self-aggrandisement may become so urgent as to justify, or at least to condone, forcible dispossession
of weaker nationalities. This might, indeed it has, become a sufficiently perplexing question
of casuistry, both as touches the punctilios of national honour and as regards an equitable
division between rival Powers in respect of the material means of mastery. So in private life
it may become a moot question--in point of equity--whether the craving of a kleptomaniac may
not on occasion rise to such an intolerable pitch of avidity as to justify him in seizing whatever
valuables he can safely lay hands on, to ease the discomfort of ungratified desire. In private
life any such endeavour to better oneself at one's neighbors' cost is not commonly reprobated
if it takes effect on a decently large scale and shrewdly within the flexibilities of the law
or with the connivance of its officers. Governing international endeavours of this class there
is no law so inflexible that it can not be conveniently made over to fit particular circumstances.
And in the absence of law the felt need of a formal justification will necessarily appeal to
the unformulated equities of the case, with some such outcome as alluded to above. All that,
of course, is for the diplomatists to take care of.

But any speculation on the equities involved in the projected course of empire to which these
two enterprising nations are committing themselves must run within the lines of diplomatic
parable, and will have none but a speculative interest. It is not a matter of equity. Accepting
the situation as it stands, it is evident that any peace can only have a qualified meaning,
in the sense of armistice, so long as there is opportunity for national enterprise of the character
on which these two enterprising national establishments are bent, and so long as these and
the like national establishments remain. So, taking the peaceable professions of their spokesmen
at a discount of one hundred percent, as one necessarily must, and looking to the circumstantial
evidence of the case, it is abundantly plain that at least these two imperial Powers may be
counted on consistently to manoeuvre for warlike advantage so long as any peace compact holds,
and to break the peace so soon as the strategy of Imperial enterprise appears to require it.

There has been much courteous make-believe of amiable and upright solicitude on this head the
past few years, both in diplomatic intercourse and among men out of doors; and since make-believe
is a matter of course in diplomatic intercourse it is right and seemly, of course, that no
overt recognition of unavowed facts should be allowed to traverse this run of make-believe
within the precincts of diplomatic intercourse. But in any ingenuous inquiry into the nature
of peace and the conditions of its maintenance there can be no harm in conveniently leaving
the diplomatic make-believe on one side and looking to the circumstances that condition the
case, rather than to the formal professions designed to mask the circumstances.

       *       *       *       *       *

Chief among the relevant circumstances in the current situation are the imperial designs of
Germany and Japan. These two national establishments are very much alike. So much so that for
the present purpose a single line of analysis will passably cover both cases. The same line
of analysis will also apply, with slight adaptation, to more than one of the other Powers,
or near-Powers, of the modern world; but in so far as such is held to be the case, that is
not a consideration that weakens the argument as applied to these two, which are to be taken
as the consummate type-form of a species of national establishments. They are, between them,
the best instance there is of what may be called a Dynastic State.

Except as a possible corrective of internal disorders and discontent, neither of the two States
"desires" war; but both are bent on dominion, and as the dominion aimed at is not to be had
except by fighting for it, both in effect are incorrigibly bent on warlike enterprise. And
in neither case will considerations of equity, humanity, decency, veracity, or the common good
be allowed to trouble the quest of dominion. As lies in the nature of the dynastic State, imperial
dominion, in the ambitions of both, is beyond price; so that no cost is too high so long as
ultimate success attends the imperial enterprise. So much is commonplace knowledge among all
men who are at all conversant with the facts.

To anyone who harbors a lively sentimental prejudice for or against either or both of the two
nations so spoken of, or for or against the manner of imperial enterprise to which both are
committed, it may seem that what has just been said of them and their relation to the world's
peace runs on something of a bias and conveys something of dispraise and reprobation. Such
is not the intention, however, though the appearance is scarcely to be avoided. It is necessary
for the purposes of the argument unambiguously to recognise the nature of these facts with
which the inquiry is concerned; and any plain characterisation of the facts will unavoidably
carry a fringe of suggestions of this character, because current speech is adapted for their
reprobation. The point aimed at is not this inflection of approval or disapproval. The facts
are to be taken impersonally for what they are worth in their causal bearing on the chance
of peace or war; not at their sentimental value as traits of conduct to be appraised in point
of their goodness or expediency.

So seen without prejudice, then, if that may be, this Imperial enterprise of these two Powers
is to be rated as the chief circumstance bearing on the chances of peace and conditioning the
terms on which any peace plan must be drawn. Evidently, in the presence of these two Imperial
Powers any peace compact will be in a precarious case; equally so whether either or both of
them are parties to such compact or not. No engagement binds a dynastic statesman in case it
turns out not to further the dynastic enterprise. The question then recurs: How may peace be
maintained within the horizon of German or Japanese ambitions? There are two obvious alternatives,
neither of which promises an easy way out of the quandary in which the world's peace is placed
by their presence: Submission to their dominion, or Elimination of these two Powers. Either
alternative would offer a sufficiently deterrent outlook, and yet any project for devising
some middle course of conciliation and amicable settlement, which shall be practicable and
yet serve the turn, scarcely has anything better to promise. The several nations now engaged
on a war with the greater of these Imperial Powers hold to a design of elimination, as being
the only measure that merits hopeful consideration. The Imperial Power in distress bespeaks
peace and good-will.

Those advocates, whatever their nationality, who speak for negotiation with a view to a peace
compact which is to embrace these States intact, are aiming, in effect, to put things in train
for ultimate submission to the mastery of these Imperial Powers. In these premises an amicable
settlement and a compact of perpetual peace will necessarily be equivalent to arranging a period
of recuperation and recruiting for a new onset of dynastic enterprise. For, in the nature of
the case, no compact binds the dynastic statesman, and no consideration other than the pursuit
of Imperial dominion commands his attention.

There is, of course, no intention to decry this single-mindedness that is habitually put in
evidence by the dynastic statesmen. Nor should it be taken as evidence of moral obliquity in
them. It is rather the result of a peculiar moral attitude or bent, habitual to such statesmen,
and in its degree also habitual to their compatriots, and is indispensably involved in the
Imperial frame of mind. The consummation of Imperial mastery being the highest and ubiquitously
ulterior end of all endeavour, its pursuit not only relieves its votaries from the observance
of any minor obligations that run counter to its needs, but it also imposes a moral obligation
to make the most of any opportunity for profitable deceit and chicanery that may offer. In
short, the dynastic statesman is under the governance of a higher morality, binding him to
the service of his nation's ambition--or in point of fact, to the personal service of his dynastic
master--to which it is his dutiful privilege loyally to devote all his powers of force and fraud.

Democratically-minded persons, who are not moved by the call of loyalty to a gratuitous personal
master, may have some difficulty in appreciating the force and the moral austerity of this
spirit of devotion to an ideal of dynastic aggrandisement, and in seeing how its paramount
exigence will set aside all meticulous scruples of personal rectitude and veracity, as being
a shabby with-holding of service due.

To such of these doubters as still have retained some remnants of their religious faith this
attitude of loyalty may perhaps be made intelligible by calling to mind the analogous self-surrender
of the religious devotee. And in this connection it may also be to the purpose to recall that
in point of its genesis and derivation that unreserved self-abasement and surrender to the
divine ends and guidance, which is the chief grace and glory of the true believer, is held
by secular students of these matters to be only a sublimated analogue or counterfeit of this
other dutiful abasement that constitutes loyalty to a temporal master. The deity is currently
spoken of as The Heavenly King, under whose dominion no sinner has a right that He is bound
to respect; very much after the fashion in which no subject of a dynastic state has a right
which the State is bound to respect. Indeed, all these dynastic establishments that so seek
the Kingdom, the Power and the Glory are surrounded with a penumbra of divinity, and it is
commonly a bootless question where the dynastic powers end and the claims of divinity begin.
Boston 1916. pp. 30-31.]

The Kaiser holds dominion by divine grace and is accountable to none but God, if to Him. The
whole case is in a still better state of repair as touches the Japanese establishment, where
the Emperor is a lineal descendant of the supreme deity, Amaterazu (o mi Kami), and where,
by consequence, there is no line of cleavage between a divine and a secular mastery. Pursuant
to this more unqualified authenticity of autocratic rule, there is also to be found in this
case a correspondingly unqualified devotion in the subjects and an unqualified subservience
to dynastic ends on the part of the officers of the crown. The coalescence of dynastic rule
with the divine order is less complete in the German case, but all observers bear witness that
it all goes far enough also in the German case. This state of things is recalled here as a
means of making plain that the statesmen of these Imperial Powers must in the nature of the
case, and without blame, be drawn out from under the customary restraint of those principles
of vulgar morality that are embodied in the decalogue. It is not that the subject, or--what
comes to the same thing--the servant of such a dynastic State may not be upright, veracious
and humane in private life, but only that he must not be addicted to that sort of thing in
such manner or degree as might hinder his usefulness for dynastic purposes. These matters of
selfishly individual integrity and humanity have no weight as against the exigencies of the
dynastic enterprise.

These considerations may not satisfy all doubters as to the moral sufficiency of these motives
that so suffice to decide the dynastic statesmen on their enterprise of aggression by force
and fraud; but it should be evident that so long as these statesmen continue in the frame of
mind spoken of, and so long as popular sentiment in these countries continues, as hitherto,
to lend them effectual support in the pursuit of such Imperial enterprise, so long it must
also remain true that no enduring peace can be maintained within the sweep of their Imperial
ambition. Any peace compact would necessarily be, in effect, an armistice terminable at will
and serving as a season of preparation to meet a deferred opportunity. For the peaceable nations
it would, in effect, be a respite and a season of preparation for eventual submission to the
Imperial rule.

By advocates of such a negotiated compact of perpetual peace it has been argued that the populace
underlying these Imperial Powers will readily be brought to realise the futility and inexpediency
of such dynastic enterprise, if only the relevant facts are brought to their knowledge, and
that so these Powers will be constrained to keep the peace by default of popular support for
their warlike projects. What is required, it is believed by these sanguine persons, is that
information be competently conveyed to the common people of these warlike nations, showing
them that they have nothing to apprehend in the way of aggression or oppressive measures from
the side of their more peaceable neighbours; whereupon their warlike animus will give place
to a reasonable and enlightened frame of mind. This argument runs tacitly or explicitly, on
the premise that these peoples who have so enthusiastically lent themselves to the current
warlike enterprise are fundamentally of the same racial complexion and endowed with the same
human nature as their peaceable neighbours, who would be only too glad to keep the peace on
any terms of tolerable security from aggression. If only a fair opportunity is offered for
the interested peoples to come to an understanding, it is held, a good understanding will readily
be reached; at least so far as to result in a reasonable willingness to submit questions in
dispute to an intelligent canvass and an equitable arbitration.

Projects for a negotiated peace compact, to include the dynastic States, can hold any prospect
of a happy issue only if this line of argument, or its equivalent, is pertinent and conclusive;
and the argument is to the point only in so far as its premises are sound and will carry as
far as the desired conclusion. Therefore a more detailed attention to the premises on which
it runs will be in place, before any project of the kind is allowed to pass inspection.

As to homogeneity of race and endowment among the several nations in question, the ethnologists,
who are competent to speak of that matter, are ready to assert that this homogeneity goes much
farther among the nations of Europe than any considerable number of peace advocates would be
ready to claim. In point of race, and broadly speaking, there is substantially no difference
between these warring nations, along any east-and-west line; while the progressive difference
in racial complexion that is always met with along any north-and-south line, nowhere coincides
with a national or linguistic frontier. In no case does a political division between these
nations mark or depend on a difference of race or of hereditary endowment. And, to give full
measure, it may be added that also in no case does a division of classes within any one of
these nations, into noble and base, patrician and plebeian, lay and learned, innocent and vicious,
mark or rest on any slightest traceable degree of difference in race or in heritable endowment.
On the point of racial homogeneity there is no fault to find with the position taken.

If the second postulate in this groundwork of premises on which the advocates of negotiable
peace base their hopes were as well taken there need be no serious misgiving as to the practicability
of such a plan. The plan counts on information, persuasion and reflection to subdue national
animosities and jealousies, at least in such measure as would make them amenable to reason.
The question of immediate interest on this head, therefore, would be as to how far this populace
may be accessible to the contemplated line of persuasion. At present they are, notoriously,
in a state of obsequious loyalty to the dynasty, single-minded devotion to the fortunes of
the Fatherland, and uncompromising hatred of its enemies. In this frame of mind there is nothing
that is new, except the degree of excitement. The animus, it will be recalled, was all there
and on the alert when the call came, so that the excitement came on with the sweep of a conflagration
on the first touch of a suitable stimulus. The German people at large was evidently in a highly
unstable equilibrium, so that an unexampled enthusiasm of patriotic self-sacrifice followed
immediately on the first incitement to manslaughter, very much as if the nation had been held
under an hypnotic spell. One need only recall the volume of overbearing magniloquence that
broke out all over the place in that beginning, when The Day was believed to be dawning.

Such a popular frame of mind is not a transient episode, to be created at short notice and
put aside for a parcel of salutary advice. The nation that will make such a massive concerted
move with the alacrity shown in this instance must be living in a state of alert readiness
for just such an onset. Yet this is not to be set down as anything in the way of a racial trait
specifically distinguishing the German people from those other adjacent nationalities that
are incapable of a similarly swift and massive response to the appeal of patriotism. These
adjacent nationalities are racially identical with the German people, but they do not show
the same warlike abandon in nearly the same degree.

But for all that, it is a national trait, not to be acquired or put away by taking thought.
It is just here that the line of definition runs: it is a national trait, not a racial one.
It is not Nature, but it is Second Nature. But a national trait, while it is not heritable
in the simple sense of that term, has the same semblance, or the same degree, of hereditary
persistence that belongs to the national institutions, usages, conventionalities, beliefs,
which distinguish the given nation from its neighbors. In this instance it may be said more
specifically that this eager loyalty is a heritage of the German people at large in the same
sense and with the same degree of permanence as the institution of an autocratic royalty has
among them, or a privileged nobility. Indeed, it is the institutional counterfoil of these
establishments. It is of an institutional character, just as the corresponding sense of national
solidarity and patriotic devotion is among the neighboring peoples with whom the German nation
comes in comparison. And an institution is an historical growth, with just so much of a character
of permanence and continuity of transmission as is given it by the circumstances out of which
it has grown. Any institution is a product of habit, or perhaps more accurately it is a body
of habits of thought bearing on a given line of conduct, which prevails with such generality
and uniformity throughout the group as to have become a matter of common sense.

Such an article of institutional furniture is an outcome of usage, not of reflection or deliberate
choice; and it has consequently a character of self-legitimation, so that it stands in the
accredited scheme of things as intrinsically right and good, and not merely as a shrewdly chosen
expedient ad interim. It affords a norm of life, inosculating with a multiplicity of other
norms, with which it goes to make up a balanced scheme of ends, ways and means governing human
conduct; and no one such institutional item, therefore, is materially to be disturbed, discarded
or abated except at the cost of serious derangement to the balanced scheme of things in which
it belongs as an integral constituent. Nor can such a detail norm of conduct and habitual propensity
come into bearing and hold its place, except by force of habituation which is at the same time
consonant with the common run of habituation to which the given community is subject. It follows
that the more rigorous, comprehensive, unremitting and long-continued the habituation to which
a given institutional principle owes its vogue, the more intimately and definitively will it
be embedded in the common sense of the community, the less chance is there of its intrinsic
necessity being effectually questioned or doubted, and the less chance is there of correcting
it or abating its force in case circumstances should so change as to make its continued rule
visibly inexpedient. Its abatement will be a work not of deliberation and design, but of defection
through disuse.

Not that reflection and sane counsel will count for nothing in these premises, but only that
these exertions of intelligence will count for relatively very little by comparison with the
run of habituation as enforced by the circumstances conditioning any given case; and further,
that wise counsel and good resolutions can take effect in the way of amending any untoward
institutional bent only by way of suitable habituation, and only at such a rate of change as
the circumstances governing habituation will allow. It is, at the best, slow work to shift
the settled lines of any community's scheme of common sense. Now, national solidarity, and
more particularly an unquestioning loyalty to the sovereign and the dynasty, is a matter of
course and of commonsense necessity with the German people. It is not necessary to call to
mind that the Japanese nation, which has here been coupled with the German, are in the same
case, only more so.

Doubtless it would be exceeding the premises to claim that it should necessarily take the German
people as long-continued and as harsh a schooling to unlearn their excess of chauvinism, their
servile stooping to gratuitous authority, and their eager subservience to the dynastic ambitions
of their masters, as that which has in the course of history induced these habits in them.
But it would seem reasonable to expect that there should have to be some measure of proportion
between what it has cost them in time and experience to achieve their current frame of mind
in this bearing and what it would cost to divest themselves of it. It is a question of how
long a time and how exacting a discipline would be required so far to displace the current
scheme of commonsense values and convictions in force in the Fatherland as to neutralise their
current high-wrought principles of servility, loyalty and national animosity; and on the solution
of this difficulty appear to depend the chances of success for any proposed peace compact to
which the German nation shall be made a party, on terms of what is called an "honorable peace."

The national, or rather the dynastic and warlike, animus of this people is of the essence of
their social and political institutions. Without such a groundwork of popular sentiment neither
the national establishment, nor the social order on which it rests and through which it works,
could endure. And with this underlying national sentiment intact nothing but a dynastic establishment
of a somewhat ruthless order, and no enduring system of law and order not based on universal
submission to personal rule, could be installed. Both the popular animus and the correlative
coercive scheme of law and order are of historical growth. Both have been learned, acquired,
and are in no cogent sense original with the German people. But both alike and conjointly have
come out of a very protracted, exacting and consistent discipline of mastery and subjection,
running virtually unbroken over the centuries that have passed since the region that is now
the Fatherland first passed under the predaceous rule of its Teutonic invaders,--for no part
of the "Fatherland" is held on other tenure than that of forcible seizure in ancient times
by bands of invaders, with the negligible exception of Holstein and a slight extent of territory
adjoining that province to the south and south-west. Since the time when such peoples as were
overtaken in this region by the Germanic barbarian invasions, and were reduced to subjection
and presently merged with their alien masters, the same general fashion of law and order that
presently grew out of that barbarian conquest has continued to govern the life of those peoples,
with relatively slight and intermittent relaxation of its rigors. Contrasted with its beginnings,
in the shameful atrocities of the Dark Ages and the prehistoric phases of this German occupation,
the later stages of this system of coercive law and order in the Fatherland will appear humane,
not to say genial; but as compared with the degree of mitigation which the like order of things
presently underwent elsewhere in western Europe, it has throughout the historical period preserved
a remarkable degree of that character of arrogance and servility which it owes to its barbarian
and predatory beginnings.

       *       *       *       *       *

The initial stages of this Germanic occupation of the Fatherland are sufficiently obscure under
the cloud of unrecorded antiquity that covers them; and then, an abundance of obscurantism
has also been added by the vapours of misguided vanity that have surrounded so nearly all historical
inquiry on the part of patriotic German scholars. Yet there are certain outstanding features
in the case, in history and prehistory, that are too large or too notorious to be set aside
or to be covered over, and these may suffice to show the run of circumstances which have surrounded
the German peoples and shaped their civil and political institutions, and whose discipline
has guided German habits of thought and preserved the German spirit of loyalty in the shape
in which it underlies the dynastic State of the present day.

Among the most engaging of those fables that make the conventional background of German history
is the academic legend of a free agricultural village community made up of ungraded and masterless
men. It is not necessary here to claim that such a village community never played a part in
the remoter prehistoric experiences out of which the German people, or their ruling classes,
came into the territory of the Fatherland; such a claim might divert the argument. But it is
sufficiently patent to students of those matters today that no such community of free and ungraded
men had any part in the Germanic beginnings; that is to say, in the early experiences of the
Fatherland under German rule. The meager and ambiguous remarks of Tacitus on the state of domestic
and civil economy among the inhabitants of Germany need no longer detain anyone, in the presence
of the available archaeological and historical evidence. The circumstantial evidence of the
prehistoric antiquities which touch this matter, as well as the slight allusions of historical
records in antiquity, indicate unambiguously enough that when the Germanic immigrants moved
into the territories of the Fatherland they moved in as invaders, or rather as marauders, and
made themselves masters of the people already living on the land. And history quite as unambiguously
declares that when the Fatherland first comes under its light it presents a dark and bloody
ground of tumultuous contention and intrigue; where princes and princelings, captains of war
and of rapine as well as the captains of superstition, spend the substance of an ignominiously
sordid and servile populace in an endless round of mutual raiding, treachery, assassinations
and supersession.

Taken at their face value, the recorded stories of that early time would leave one to infer
that the common people, whose industry supported this superstructure of sordid mastery, could
have survived only by oversight. But touched as it is with poetic license and devoted to the
admirable life of the master class--admirable in their own eyes and in those of their chroniclers,
as undoubtedly also in the eyes of the subject populace--the history of that time doubtless
plays up the notable exploits and fortunes of its conspicuous personages, somewhat to the neglect
of the obscure vicissitudes of life and fortune among that human raw material by use of which
the admirable feats of the master class were achieved, and about the use of which the dreary
traffic of greed and crime went on among the masters.

Of the later history, what covers, say, the last one thousand years, there is no need to speak
at length. With transient, episodic, interruptions it is for the Fatherland a continuation
out of these beginnings, leading out into a more settled system of subjection and mastery and
a progressively increased scale of princely enterprise, resting on an increasingly useful and
increasingly loyal populace. In all this later history the posture of things in the Fatherland
is by no means unique, nor is it even strikingly peculiar, by contrast with the rest of western
Europe, except in degree. It is of the same general kind as the rest of what has gone to make
the historical advance of medieval and modern times; but it differs from the generality in
a more sluggish movement and a more tenacious adherence to what would be rated as the untoward
features of mediaevalism. The approach to a modern scheme of institutions and modern conceptions
of life and of human values has been slow, and hitherto incomplete, as compared with those
communities that have, for good or ill, gone farthest along the ways of modernity. Habituation
to personal subjection and subservience under the rigorous and protracted discipline of standardised
service and fealty has continued later, and with later and slighter mitigation, in the Fatherland;
so as better to have conserved the spiritual attitude of the feudal order. Law and order in
the Fatherland has in a higher degree continued to mean unquestioning obedience to a personal
master and unquestioning subservience to the personal ambitions of the master. And since freedom,
in the sense of discretionary initiative on the part of the common man, does not fit into the
framework of such a system of dependence on personal authority and surveillance, any degree
of such free initiative will be "licence" in the eyes of men bred into the framework of this
system; whereas "liberty," as distinct from "licence," is not a matter of initiative and self-direction,
but of latitude in the service of a master. Hence no degree of curtailment in this delegated
"liberty" will be resented or repudiated by popular indignation, so long as the master to whom
service is due can give assurance that it is expedient for his purposes.

The age-long course of experience and institutional discipline out of which the current German
situation has come may be drawn schematically to the following effect: In the beginning a turmoil
of conquest, rapine, servitude, and contention between rival bands of marauders and their captains,
gradually, indeed imperceptibly, fell into lines of settled and conventionalised exploitation;
with repeated interruptions due to new incursions and new combinations of rapacious chieftains.
Out of it all in the course of time came a feudal régime, under which personal allegiance and
service to petty chiefs was the sole and universal accredited bond of solidarity. As the outcome
of further unremitting intrigue and contention among feudal chiefs, of high and low degree,
the populace fell into larger parcels, under the hands of feudal lords of larger dominion,
and the bias of allegiance and service came to hold with some degree of permanence and uniformity,
or at least of consistency, over a considerable reach of country, including its inhabitants.
With the rise of States came allegiance to a dynasty, as distinguished from the narrower and
more ephemeral allegiance to the semi-detached person of a victorious prince; and the relative
permanence of territorial frontiers under this rule gave room for an effectual recrudescence
of the ancient propensity to a sentimental group solidarity; in which the accredited territorial
limits of the dynastic dominion served to outline the group that so was felt to belong together
under a joint dispensation and with something of a joint interest in matters of fame and fortune.
As the same notion is more commonly and more suggestively expressed, a sense of nationality
arose within the sweep of the dynastic rule. This sense of community interest that is called
nationality so came in to reenforce the sense of allegiance to the dynastic establishment and
so has coalesced with it to produce that high-wrought loyalty to the State, that draws equally
on the sentiment of community interest in the nation and on the prescriptive docility to the
dynastic head. The sense of national solidarity and of feudal loyalty and service have coalesced,
to bring this people to that climax of patriotic devotion beyond which there lies no greater
height along this way. But this is also as far as the German people have gone; and it is scarcely
to be claimed that the Japanese have yet reached this stage; they would rather appear to be,
essentially, subjects of the emperor, and only inchoately a Japanese nation. Of the German
people it seems safe to say that they have achieved such a coalescence of unimpaired feudal
fealty to a personal master and a full-blown sense of national solidarity, without any perceptible
slackening in either strand of the double tie which so binds them in the service of the dynastic
State.

Germany, in other words, is somewhat in arrears, as compared with those Europeans that have
gone farthest along this course of institutional growth, or perhaps rather institutional permutation.
It is not that this retardation of the German people in this matter of national spirit is to
be counted as an infirmity, assuredly not as a handicap in the pursuit of that national prestige
on which all patriotic endeavour finally converges. For this purpose the failure to distinguish
between the ambitions of the dynastic statesmen and the interests of the commonwealth is really
a prodigious advantage, which their rivals, of more mature growth politically, have lost by
atrophy of this same dynastic axiom of subservience. These others, of whom the French and the
English-speaking peoples make up the greater part and may be taken as the typical instance,
have had a different history, in part. The discipline of experience has left a somewhat different
residue of habits of thought embedded in their institutional equipment and effective as axiomatic
premises in their further apprehension of what is worth while, and why.

It is not that the difference between these two contrasted strains of the Western civilisation
is either profound or very pronounced; it is perhaps rather to be stated as a difference of
degree than of kind; a retardation of spiritual growth, in respect of the prevalent and controlling
habits of thought on certain heads, in the one case as against the other. Therefore any attempt
to speak with sufficient definition, so as to bring out this national difference of animus
in any convincing way, will unavoidably have an appearance of overstatement, if not also of
bias. And in any case, of course, it is not to be expected that the national difference here
spoken for can be brought home to the apprehension of any unspoiled son of the Fatherland,
since it does not lie within that perspective.

It is not of the nature of a divergence, but rather a differential in point of cultural maturity,
due to a differential in the rate of progression through that sequence of institutional phases
through which the civilised peoples of Europe, jointly and severally, have been led by force
of circumstance. In this movement out of the Dark Ages and onward, circumstances have fallen
out differently for those Europeans that chanced to live within the confines of the Fatherland,
different with such effect as to have in the present placed these others at a farther remove
from the point of departure, leaving them furnished with less of that archaic frame of mind
that is here in question. Possessed of less, but by no means shorn of all--perhaps not of the
major part--of that barbaric heritage.

Circumstances have so fallen out that these--typically the French and the English-speaking
peoples--have left behind and partly forgotten that institutional phase in which the people
of Imperial Germany now live and move and have their being. The French partly because they--that
is the common people of the French lands--entered the procession with a very substantial lead,
having never been put back to a point abreast of their neighbors across the Rhine, in that
phase of European civilisation from which the peoples of the Fatherland tardily emerged into
the feudal age. So, any student who shall set out to account for the visible lead which the
French people still so obstinately maintain in the advance of European culture, will have to
make up his account with this notable fact among the premises of his inquiry, that they have
had a shorter course to cover and have therefore, in the sporting phrase, had the inside track.
They measure from a higher datum line. Among the advantages which so have come, in a sense
unearned, to the French people, is their uninterrupted retention, out of Roman--and perhaps
pre-Roman--times, of the conception of a commonwealth, a community of men with joint and mutual
interests apart from any superimposed dependence on a joint feudal superior. The French people
therefore became a nation, with unobtrusive facility, so soon as circumstances permitted, and
they are today the oldest "nation" in Europe. They therefore were prepared from long beforehand,
with an adequate principle (habit of thought) of national cohesion and patriotic sentiment,
to make the shift from a dynastic State to a national commonwealth whenever the occasion for
such a move should arise; that is to say, whenever the dynastic State, by a suitable conjunction
of infirmity and irksomeness, should pass the margin of tolerance in this people's outraged
sense of national shame. The case of the German people in their latterday attitude toward dynastic
vagaries may afford a term of comparison. These appear yet incapable of distinguishing between
national shame and dynastic ambition.

By a different course and on lines more nearly parallel with the life-history of the German
peoples, the English-speaking peoples have reached what is for the present purpose much the
same ground as the French, in that they too have made the shift from the dynastic State to
the national commonwealth. The British started late, but the discipline of servitude and unmitigated
personal rule in their case was relatively brief and relatively ineffectual; that is to say,
as compared with what their German cousins had to endure and to learn in the like connection.
So that the British never learned the lesson of dynastic loyalty fully by heart; at least not
the populace; whatever may be true for the privileged classes, the gentlemen, whose interests
were on the side of privilege and irresponsible mastery. Here as in the French case it was
the habits of thought of the common man, not of the class of gentlemen, that made the obsolescence
of the dynastic State a foregone conclusion and an easy matter--as one speaks of easy achievement
in respect of matters of that magnitude. It is now some two and a half centuries since this
shift in the national point of view overtook the English-speaking community. Perhaps it would
be unfair to say that that period, or that period plus what further time may yet have to be
added, marks the interval by which German habits of thought in these premises are in arrears,
but it is not easy to find secure ground for a different and more moderate appraisal.

The future, of course, is not to be measured in terms of the past, and the tempo of the present
and of the calculable future is in many bearings very different from that which has ruled even
in the recent historical past. But then, on the other hand, habituation always requires time;
more particularly such habituation as is to take effect throughout a populous nation and is
counted on to work a displacement of a comprehensive institutional system and of a people's
outlook on life.

Germany is still a dynastic State. That is to say, its national establishment is, in effect,
a self-appointed and irresponsible autocracy which holds the nation in usufruct, working through
an appropriate bureaucratic organisation, and the people is imbued with that spirit of abnegation
and devotion that is involved in their enthusiastically supporting a government of that character.
Now, it is in the nature of a dynastic State to seek dominion, that being the whole of its
nature. And a dynastic establishment which enjoys the unqualified usufruct of such resources
as are placed at its disposal by the feudalistic loyalty of the German people runs no chance
of keeping the peace, except on terms of the unconditional surrender of all those whom it may
concern. No solemn engagement and no pious resolution has any weight in the balance against
a cultural fatality of this magnitude.

       *       *       *       *       *

This account of the derivation and current state of German nationalism will of course appear
biased to anyone who has been in the habit of rating German Culture high in all its bearings,
and to whom at the same time the ideals of peace and liberty appeal. Indeed, such a critic,
gifted with the due modicum of asperity, might well be provoked to call it all a more or less
ingenious diatribe of partisan malice. But it can be so construed only by those who see the
question at issue as a point of invidious distinction between this German animus on the one
hand and the corresponding frame of mind of the neighboring peoples on the other hand. There
may also appear to the captious to be some air of deprecation about the characterisation here
offered of the past history of political traffic within the confines of the Fatherland. All
of which, of course, touches neither the veracity of the characterisation nor the purpose with
which so ungrateful a line of analysis and exposition has been entered upon. It is to be regretted
if facts that may flutter the emotions of one and another among the sensitive and unreflecting
can not be drawn into such an inquiry without having their cogency discounted beforehand on
account of the sentimental value imputed to them. Of course no offense is intended and no invidious
comparison is aimed at.

Even if the point of it all were an invidious comparison it would immediately have to be admitted
that the net showing in favor of these others, e.g., the French or the English-speaking peoples,
is by no means so unreservedly to their credit as such a summary statement of the German case
might seem to imply. As bearing on the chances of a peace contingent upon the temper of the
contracting nationalities, it is by no means a foregone conclusion that such a peace compact
would hold indefinitely even if it depended solely on the pacific animus of these others that
have left the dynastic State behind. These others, in fact, are also not yet out of the woods.
They may not have the same gift of gratuitous and irresponsible truculence as their German
cousins, in the same alarming degree; but as was said in an earlier passage, they too are ready
to fight on provocation. They are patriotic to a degree; indeed to such a degree that anything
which visibly touches the national prestige will readily afford a casus belli. But it remains
true that the popular temper among them is of the defensive order; perhaps of an unnecessarily
enthusiastic defensive order, but after all in such a frame of mind as leaves them willing
to let well enough alone, to live and let live.

And herein appears to lie the decisive difference between those peoples whose patriotic affections
center about the fortunes of an impersonal commonwealth and those in whom is superadded a fervent
aspiration for dynastic ascendency. The latter may be counted on to break the peace when a
promising opportunity offers.

The contrast may be illustrated, though not so sharply as might be desirable, in the different
temper shown by the British people in the Boer war on the one hand, as compared with the popularity
of the French-Prussian war among the German people on the other hand. Both were aggressive
wars, and both were substantially unprovoked. Diplomatically speaking, of course, sufficient
provocation was found in either case, as how should it not? But in point of substantial provocation
and of material inducement, both were about equally gratuitous. In either case the war could
readily have been avoided without material detriment to the community and without perceptible
lesion to the national honour. Both were "engineered" on grounds shamelessly manufactured ad
hoc by interested parties; in the one case by a coterie of dynastic statesmen, in the other
by a junta of commercial adventurers and imperialistic politicians. In neither case had the
people any interest of gain or loss in the quarrel, except as it became a question of national
prestige. But both the German and the British community bore the burden and fought the campaign
to a successful issue for those interested parties who had precipitated the quarrel. The British
people at large, it is true, bore the burden; which comes near being all that can be said in
the way of popular approval of this war, which political statesmen have since then rated as
one of the most profitable enterprises in which the forces of the realm have been engaged.
On the subject of this successful war the common man is still inclined to cover his uneasy
sense of decency with a recital of extenuating circumstances. What parallels all this in the
German case is an outbreak of patriotic abandon and an admirable spirit of unselfish sacrifice
in furtherance of the dynastic prestige, an intoxication of patriotic blare culminating in
the triumphant coronation at Versailles. Nor has the sober afterthought of the past forty-six
years cast a perceptible shadow of doubt across the glorious memory of that patriotic debauch.

Such is the difference of animus between a body of patriotic citizens in a modern commonwealth
on the one hand and the loyal subjects of a dynastic State on the other hand. There need be
no reflections on the intrinsic merits of either. Seen in dispassionate perspective from outside
the turmoil, there is not much to choose, in point of sane and self-respecting manhood, between
the sluggish and shamefaced abettor of a sordid national crime, and a ranting patriot who glories
in serving as cat's-paw to a syndicate of unscrupulous politicians bent on dominion for dominion's
sake. But the question here is not as to the relative merits or the relative manhood contents
of the two contrasted types of patriot. Doubtless both and either have manhood enough and to
spare; at least, so they say. But the point in question is the simpler and nowise invidious
one, as to the availability of both or either for the perpetuation of the world's peace under
a compact of vigilant neutrality. Plainly the German frame of mind admits of no neutrality;
the quest of dominion is not compatible with neutrality, and the substantial core of German
national life is still the quest of dominion under dynastic tutelage. How it stands with the
spirit that has repeatedly come in sight in the international relations of the British community
is a question harder to answer.

It may be practicable to establish a peace of neutrals on the basis of such national spirit
as prevails among these others--the French and English-speaking peoples, together with the
minor nationalities that cluster about the North Sea--because their habitual attitude is that
of neutrality, on the whole and with allowance for a bellicose minority in all these countries.
By and large, these peoples have come to the tolerant attitude that finds expression in the
maxim, Live and let live. But they are all and several sufficiently patriotic. It may, indeed,
prove that they are more than sufficiently patriotic for the purposes of a neutral peace. They
stand for peace, but it is "peace with honour;" which means, in more explicit terms, peace
with undiminished national prestige. Now, national prestige is a very particular commodity,
as has been set out in earlier passages of this inquiry; and a peace which is to be kept only
on terms of a jealous maintenance of the national honour is likely to be in a somewhat precarious
case. If, and when, the national honour is felt to require an enhanced national ascendancy,
the case for a neutral peace immediately becomes critical. And the greater the number and diversity
of pretensions and interests that are conceived to be bound up with the national honour, the
more unstable will the resulting situation necessarily be.

The upshot of all this recital of considerations appears to be that a neutral peace compact
may, or it may not, be practicable in the absence of such dynastic States as Germany and Japan;
whereas it has no chance in the presence of these enterprising national establishments.

No one will be readier or more voluble in exclaiming against the falsity of such a discrimination
as is here attempted, between the democratic and the dynastic nations of the modern world,
than the spokesmen of these dynastic Powers. No one is more outspoken in professions of universal
peace and catholic amity than these same spokesmen of the dynastic Powers; and nowhere is there
more urgent need of such professions. Official and "inspired" professions are, of course, to
be overlooked; at least, so charity would dictate. But there have, in the historic present,
been many professions of this character made also by credible spokesmen of the German, and
perhaps of the Japanese, people, and in all sincerity. By way of parenthesis it should be said
that this is not intended to apply to expressions of conviction and intention that have come
out of Germany these two years past (December 1916). Without questioning the credibility of
these witnesses that have borne witness to the pacific and genial quality of national sentiment
in the German people, it will yet be in place to recall the run of facts in the national life
of Germany in this historical present and the position of these spokesmen in the German community.

       *       *       *       *       *

The German nation is of a peculiar composition in respect of its social structure. So far as
bears on the question in hand, it is made up of three distinctive constituent factors, or perhaps
rather categories or conditions of men. The populace is of course the main category, and in
the last resort always the main and decisive factor. Next in point of consequence as well as
of numbers and initiative is the personnel of the control,--the ruling class, the administration,
the official community, the hierarchy of civil and political servants, or whatever designation
may best suit; the category comprises that pyramidal superstructure of privilege and control
whereof the sovereign is the apex, and in whom, under any dynastic rule, is in effect vested
the usufruct of the populace. These two classes or conditions of men, the one of which orders
and the other obeys, make up the working structure of the nation, and they also between them
embody the national life and carry forward the national work and aim. Intermediate between
them, or rather beside them and overlapping the commissure, is a third category whose life
articulates loosely with both the others at the same time that it still runs along in a semi-detached
way. This slighter but more visible, and particularly more audible, category is made up of
the "Intellectuals," as a late, and perhaps vulgar, designation would name them.

These are they who chiefly communicate with the world outside, and at the same time they do
what is academically called thinking. They are in intellectual contact and communication with
the world at large, in a contact of give and take, and they think and talk in and about those
concepts that go in under the caption of the humanities in the world at large. The category
is large enough to constitute an intellectual community, indeed a community of somewhat formidable
magnitude, taken in absolute terms, although in percentages of the population at large their
numbers will foot up to only an inconsiderable figure. Their contact with the superior class
spoken of above is fairly close, being a contact, in the main, of service on the one side and
of control on the other. With the populace their contact and communion is relatively slight,
the give and take in the case being neither intimate nor far-reaching. More particularly is
there a well-kept limit of moderation on any work of indoctrination or intellectual guidance
which this class may carry down among the people at large, dictated and enforced by dynastic
expediency. This category, of the Intellectuals, is sufficiently large to live its own life
within itself, without drawing on the spiritual life of the community at large, and of sufficiently
substantial quality to carry its own peculiar scheme of intellectual conventions and verities.
Of the great and highly meritorious place and work of these Intellectuals in the scheme of
German culture it is needless to speak. What is to the point is that they are the accredited
spokesmen of the German nation in all its commonplace communication with the rest of civilised
Europe.

The Intellectuals have spoken with conviction and sincerity of the spiritual state of the German
people, but in so doing, and in so far as bears on the character of German nationalism, they
have been in closer contact, intellectually and sympathetically, with the intellectual and
spiritual life of civilised Europe at large than with the movements of the spirit among the
German populace. And their canvassing of the concepts which so have come under their attention
from over the national frontiers has been carried forward--so far, again, as bears on the questions
that are here in point--with the German-dynastic principles, logic and mechanism of execution
under their immediate observation and supplying the concrete materials for inquiry. Indeed,
it holds true, by and large, that nothing else than this German-dynastic complement of ways
and means has, or can effectually, come under their observation in such a degree of intimacy
as to give body and definition to the somewhat abstract theorems on cultural aims and national
preconceptions that have come to them from outside. In short, they have borrowed these theoretical
formulations from abroad, without the concrete apparatus of ways and means in which these theorems
are embodied in their foreign habitat, and have so found themselves construing these theoretical
borrowings in the only concrete terms of which they have had first-hand and convincing knowledge.
Such an outcome would be fairly unavoidable, inasmuch as these Intellectuals, however much
they are, in the spirit, citizens of the cosmopolitan republic of knowledge and intelligence,
they are after all, in propria persona, immediately and unremittingly subjects of the German-dynastic
State; so that all their detail thinking on the aims, ways and means of life, in all its civil
and political bearings, is unavoidably shaped by the unremitting discipline of their workday
experience under this dynastic scheme. The outcome has been that while they have taken up,
as they have understood them, the concepts that rule the civic life of these other, maturer
nations, they have apprehended and developed these theorems of civic life in the terms and
by the logic enforced in that system of control and surveillance known to them by workday experience,--the
only empirical terms at hand.

The apex of growth and the center of diffusion as regards the modern culture in respect of
the ideals and logic of civic life--other phases of this culture than this its civil aspect
do not concern the point here in question--this apex of growth and center of diffusion lie
outside the Fatherland, in an environment alien to the German institutional scheme. Yet so
intrinsic to the cultural drift of modern mankind are these aims and this logic, that in taking
over and further enriching the intellectual heritage of this modern world the Intellectuals
of the Fatherland have unavoidably also taken over those conceptions of civil initiative and
masterless self-direction that rule the logic of life in a commonwealth of ungraded men. They
have taken these over and assimilated them as best their experience would permit. But workday
experience and its exigencies are stubborn things; and in this process of assimilation of these
alien conceptions of right and honest living, it is the borrowed theorems concerning civic
rights and duties that have undergone adaptation and revision, not the concrete system of ways
and means in which these principles, so accepted, are to be put in practice. Necessarily so,
since in the German scheme of law and order the major premise is the dynastic State, whereas
the major premise of the modern civilised scheme of civic life is the absence of such an organ.
So, the development and elaboration of these modern principles of civic liberty--and this elaboration
has taken on formidable dimensions--under the hand of the German Intellectuals has uniformly
run out into Pickwickian convolutions, greatly suggestive of a lost soul seeking a place to
rest. With unquestionably serious purpose and untiring endeavour, they have sought to embody
these modern civilised preconceptions in terms afforded by, or in terms compatible with, the
institutions of the Fatherland; and they have been much concerned and magniloquently elated
about the German spirit of freedom that so was to be brought to final and consummate realisation
in the life of a free people. But at no point and in no case have either the proposals or their
carrying out taken shape as a concrete application of the familiar principle of popular self-direction.
It has always come to something in the way of a concessive or expedient mitigation of the antagonistic
principle of personal authority. Where the forms of self-government or of individual self-direction
have concessively been installed, under the Imperial rule, they have turned out to be an imitative
structure with some shrewd provision for their coercion or inhibition at the discretion of
an irresponsible authority.

Neither the sound intelligence nor the good faith of these Intellectuals of the Fatherland
is to be impugned. That the--necessarily vague and circumlocutory--expositions of civic institutions
and popular liberty which they have so often and so largely promulgated should have been used
as a serviceable blind of dynastic statecraft is not to be set down to their discredit. Circumstances
over which they could have no control, since they were circumstances that shaped their own
habits of thought, have placed it beyond their competence to apprehend or to formulate these
alien principles (habits of thought) concretely in those alien institutional details and by
the alien logic with which they could have no working acquaintance.

To one and another this conception of cultural solidarity within the nation, and consequent
cultural aliency between nations, due to the different habits of life and of thought enforced
by the two diverse institutional systems, may be so far unfamiliar as to carry no conviction.
It may accordingly not seem out of place to recall that the institutional system of any given
community, particularly for any community living under a home-bred and time-tried system of
its own, will necessarily be a balanced system of interdependent and mutually concordant parts
working together in one comprehensive plan of law and order. Through such an institutional
system, as, e.g., the German Imperial organisation, there will run a degree of logical consistency,
consonant with itself throughout, and exerting a consistent discipline throughout the community;
whereby there is enforced a consistent drift or bent in the prevalent habits of life, and a
correlative bent in the resulting habits of thought prevalent in the community. It is, in fact,
this possession of a common scheme of use and wont, and a consequent common outlook and manner
of thinking, that constitutes the most intrinsic bond of solidarity in any nationality, and
that finally marks it off from any other.

It is equally a matter of course that any other given community, living under the rule of a
substantially different, or divergent, system of institutions, will be exposed to a course
of workday discipline running to a different, perhaps divergent, effect; and that this other
community will accordingly come in for a characteristically different discipline and fall under
the rule of a different commonsense outlook. Where an institutional difference of this kind
is somewhat large and consistent, so as to amount in effect to a discrepancy, as may fairly
be said of the difference between Imperial Germany and its like on the one hand, and the English-speaking
nations on the other hand, there the difference in everyday conceptions may readily make the
two peoples mutually unintelligible to one another, on those points of institutional principle
that are involved in the discrepancy. This is the state of the case as between the German people,
including the Intellectuals, and the peoples against whom their preconceptions of national
destiny have arrayed them. And the many vivid expressions of consternation, abhorrence and
incredulity that have come out of this community of Intellectuals in the course of the past
two years of trial and error, bear sufficient testimony to the rigorous constraint which these
German preconceptions and their logic exercise over the Intellectuals, no less than over the
populace.

Conversely, of course, it is nearly as impracticable for those who have grown up under the
discipline of democratic institutions to comprehend the habitual outlook of the commonplace
German patriot on national interests and aims; not quite, perhaps, because the discipline of
use and wont and indoctrination is neither so rigorous nor so consistent in their case. But
there is, after all, prevalent among them a sufficiently evident logical inability to understand
and appreciate the paramount need of national, that is to say dynastic, ascendancy that actuates
all German patriots; just as these same patriots are similarly unable to consider national
interests in any other light than that of dynastic ascendancy.

Going simply on the face value of the available evidence, any outsider might easily fall into
the error of believing that when the great adventure of the war opened up before them, as well
as when presently the shock of baffled endeavour brought home its exasperating futility, the
Intellectuals of the Fatherland distinguished themselves above all other classes and conditions
of men in the exuberance of their patriotic abandon. Such a view would doubtless be almost
wholly erroneous. It is not that the Intellectuals reached a substantially superior pitch of
exaltation, but only that, being trained in the use of language, they were able to express
their emotions with great facility. There seems no reason to believe that the populace fell
short of the same measure in respect of their prevalent frame of mind.

To return to the workings of the Imperial dynastic State and the forces engaged. It plainly
appears that the Intellectuals are to be counted as supernumeraries, except so far as they
serve as an instrument of publicity and indoctrination in the hands of the discretionary authorities.
The working factors in the case are the dynastic organisation of control, direction and emolument,
and the populace at large by use of whose substance the traffic in dynastic ascendancy and
emolument is carried on. These two are in fairly good accord, on the ancient basis of feudal
loyalty. Hitherto there is no evident ground for believing that this archaic tie that binds
the populace to the dynastic ambitions has at all perceptibly weakened. And the possibility
of dynastic Germany living at peace with the world under any compact, therefore translates
itself into the possibility of the German people's unlearning its habitual deference and loyalty
to the dynasty.

As its acquirement has been a work of protracted habituation, so can its obsolescence also
come about only through more or less protracted habituation under a system of use and wont
of a different or divergent order. The elements of such a systematic discipline running to
an effect at cross purposes with this patriotic animus are not absent from the current situation
in the Fatherland; the discipline of the modern industrial system, for instance, runs to such
a divergent effect; but this, and other conceivable forces which may reenforce it, will after
all take time, if they are to work a decisive change in the current frame of mind of the patriotic
German community. During the interval required for such a change in the national temper, the
peace of the world would be conditioned on the inability of the dynastic State to break it.
So that the chances of success for any neutral peace league will vary inversely as the available
force of Imperial Germany, and it could be accounted secure only in the virtual elimination
of the Imperial State as a national Power.

If the gradual obsolescence of the spirit of militant loyalty in the German people, through
disuse under a régime of peace, industry, self government and free trade, is to be the agency
by force of which dynastic imperialism is to cease, the chance of a neutral peace will depend
on the thoroughness with which such a régime of self-direction can be installed in this case,
and on the space of time required for such obsolescence through disuse. Obviously, the installation
of a workable régime of self-government on peaceable lines would in any case be a matter of
great difficulty among a people whose past experience has so singularly incapacitated them
for self-government; and obviously, too, the interval of time required to reach secure ground
along this line of approach would be very considerable. Also, in view of these conditions,
obviously, this scheme for maintaining the peace of nations by a compact of neutrals based
on a compromise with an aspiring dynastic State resolves itself into the second of the two
alternatives spoken of at the outset, viz., a neutral peace based on the elimination of Germany
as a war power, together with the elimination of any materials suitable for the formation of
a formidable coalition. And then, with Imperial Germany supposedly eliminated or pacified,
there would still remain the Japanese establishment, to which all the arguments pertinent in
the case of Germany will apply without abatement; except that, at least hitherto, the dynastic
statesmen of Japan have not had the disposal of so massive a body of resources, in population,
industry, or raw materials.

CHAPTER IV

PEACE WITHOUT HONOUR

The argument therefore turns back to a choice between the two alternatives alluded to: peace
in submission to the rule of the German dynastic establishment (and to Japan), or peace through
elimination of these enterprising Powers. The former alternative, no doubt, is sufficiently
unattractive, but it is not therefore to be put aside without a hearing. As goes without saying,
it is repugnant to the patriotic sentiments of those peoples whom the Imperial German establishment
have elected for submission. But if this unreflecting patriotic revulsion can once be made
amenable to reason, there is always something to be said in favor of such a plan of peaceable
submission, or at least in extenuation of it; and if it is kept in mind that the ulterior necessity
of such submission must always remain in perspective as a condition precedent to a peaceful
settlement, so long as one or both of these enterprising Powers remains intact, it will be
seen that a sane appraisal of the merits of such a régime of peace is by no means uncalled
for. For neither of these two Powers is there a conclusive issue of endeavour short of paramount
dominion.

       *       *       *       *       *

There should also be some gain of insight and sobriety in recalling that the Intellectuals
of the Fatherland, who have doubtless pondered this matter longer and more dispassionately
than all other men, have spoken very highly of the merits of such a plan of universal submission
to the rule of this German dynastic establishment. They had, no doubt, been considering the
question both long and earnestly, as to what would, in the light of reason, eventually be to
the best interest of those peoples whose manifest destiny was eventual tutelage under the Imperial
crown; and there need also be no doubt that in that time (two years past) they therefore spoke
advisedly and out of the fulness of the heart on this head. The pronouncements that came out
of the community of Intellectuals in that season of unembarrassed elation and artless avowal
are doubtless to be taken as an outcome of much thoughtful canvassing of what had best be done,
not as an enforced compromise with untoward necessities but as the salutary course freely to
be pursued with an eye single to the best good of all concerned.

It is true, the captious have been led to speak slightingly of the many utterances of this
tenure coming out of the community of Intellectuals, as, e.g., the lay sermons of Professor
Ostwald dating back to that season; but no unprejudiced reader can well escape the persuasion
that these, as well as the very considerable volume of similar pronouncements by many other
men of eminent scholarship and notable for benevolent sentiments, are faithfully to be accepted
as the expressions of a profound conviction and a consciously generous spirit. In so speaking
of the advantages to be derived by any subject people from submission to the German Imperial
rule, these Intellectuals are not to be construed as formulating the drift of vulgar patriotic
sentiment among their compatriots at large, but rather as giving out the deliverances of their
own more sensitive spirit and maturer deliberation, as men who are in a position to see human
affairs and interests in a larger perspective. Such, no doubt, would be their own sense of
the matter.

Reflection on the analogous case of the tutelage exercised by the American government over
the subject Philippinos may contribute to a just and temperate view of what is intended in
the régime of tutelage and submission so spoken for by the German Intellectuals,--and, it may
be added, found good by the Imperial statesmen. There would, of course, be the difference,
as against the case of the Philippinos, that whereas the American government is after all answerable,
in the last resort and in a somewhat random fashion, to a popular opinion that runs on democratic
preconceptions, the German Imperial establishment on the other hand is answerable to no one,
except it be to God, who is conceived to stand in somewhat the relation of a silent partner,
or a minority stockholder in this dynastic enterprise.

Yet it should not be overlooked that any presumptive hard usage which the vassal peoples might
look for at the hands of the German dynasty would necessarily be tempered with considerations
of expediency as dictated by the exigencies of usufruct. The Imperial establishment has shown
itself to be wise, indeed more wise than amiable, but wise at least in its intentions, in the
use which it has made of subject peoples hitherto. It is true, a somewhat accentuated eagerness
on the part of the Imperial establishment to get the maximum service in a minimum of time and
at a minimum cost from these subject populations,--as, e.g., in Silesia and Poland, in Schleswig-Holstein,
in Alsace-Lorraine, or in its African and Oceanic possessions,--has at times led to practices
altogether dubious on humanitarian grounds, at the same time that in point of thrifty management
they have gone beyond "what the traffic will bear." Yet it is not to be overlooked--and in
this connection it is a point of some weight--that, so far as the predatory traditions of its
statecraft will permit, the Imperial establishment has in all these matters been guided by
a singularly unreserved attention to its own material advantage. Where its management in these
premises has yielded a less profitable usufruct than the circumstances would reasonably admit,
the failure has been due to an excess of cupidity rather than the reverse.

The circumstantial evidence converges to the effect that the Imperial establishment may confidently
be counted on to manage the affairs of its subject peoples with an eye single to its own material
gain, and it may with equal confidence be counted on that in the long run no unadvised excesses
will be practised. Of course, an excessive adventure in atrocity and predation, due to such
human infirmity in its agents or in its directorate as has been shown in various recent episodes,
is to be looked for now and again; but these phenomena would come in by way of fluctuating
variations from the authentic routine, rather than as systematic features of it.

That superfluity of naughtiness that has given character to the current German Imperial policy
in Belgium, e.g., or that similarly has characterised the dealings of Imperial Japan in Korea
during the late "benevolent assimilation" of that people into Japanese-Imperial usufruct, is
not fairly to be taken to indicate what such an Imperial establishment may be expected to do
with a subject people on a footing of settled and long-term exploitation. At the outset, in
both instances, the policy of frightfulness was dictated by a well-advised view to economy
of effort in reducing the subject people to an abject state of intimidation, according to the
art of war as set forth in the manuals; whereas latterly the somewhat profligate excesses of
the government of occupation--decently covered with diplomatic parables on benevolence and
legality--have been dictated by military convenience, particularly by the need of forced labor
and the desirability of a reduced population in the acquired territory. So also the "personally
conducted" dealings with the Armenians by use of the Turks should probably also best be explained
as an endeavour to reduce the numbers of an undesirable population beforehand, without incurring
unnecessary blame. All these things are, at the most, misleading indications of what the Imperial
policy would be like under settled conditions and in the absence of insubordination.

By way of contrast, such as may serve to bring the specific traits of this prospective Imperial
tutelage of nations into a better light, the Ottoman usufruct of the peoples of the Turkish
dominions offers an instructive instance. The Ottoman tutelage is today spoken of by its apologists
in terms substantially identical with the sketches of the future presented by hopeful German
patriots in the early months of the current war. But as is so frequently the case in such circumstances,
these expressions of the officers have to be understood in a diplomatic sense; not as touching
the facts in any other than a formal way. It is sufficiently evident that the Ottoman management
of its usufruct has throughout been ill-advised enough persistently to charge more than the
traffic would bear, probably due in great part to lack of control over its agents or ramifications,
by the central office. The Ottoman establishment has not observed, or enforced, the plain rules
of economy in its utilisation of the subject peoples, and finds itself today bankrupt in consequence.
What may afford more of a parallel to the prospective German tutelage of the nations is the
procedure of the Japanese establishment in Korea, Manchuria, or China; which is also duly covered
with an ostensibly decent screen of diplomatic parables, but the nature and purpose of which
is overt enough in all respects but the nomenclature. It is not unlikely that even this Japanese
usufruct and tutelage runs on somewhat less humane and complaisant lines than a well-advised
economy of resources would dictate for the prospective German usufruct of the Western nations.

There is the essential difference between the two cases that while Japan is over-populated,
so that it becomes the part of a wise government to find additional lands for occupancy, and
that so it is constrained by its imperial ambitions to displace much of the population in its
subject territories, the Fatherland on the other hand is under-populated-- notoriously, though
not according to the letter of the diplomatic parables on this head--and for the calculable
future must continue to be under-populated; provided that the state of the industrial arts
continues subject to change in the same general direction as hitherto, and provided that no
radical change affects the German birth-rate. So, since the Imperial government has no need
of new lands for occupancy by its home population, it will presumably be under no inducement
to take measures looking to the partial depopulation of its subject territories.

The case of Belgium and the measures looking to a reduction of its population may raise a doubt,
but probably not a well taken doubt. It is rather that since it has become evident that the
territory can not be held, it is thought desirable to enrich the Fatherland with whatever property
can be removed, and to consume the accumulated man-power of the Belgian people in the service
of the war. It would appear that it is a war-measure, designed to make use of the enemy's resources
for his defeat. Indeed, under conditions of settled occupation or subjection, any degree of
such depopulation would entail an economic loss, and any well-considered administrative policy
would therefore look to the maintenance of the inhabitants of the acquired territories in undiminished
numbers and unimpaired serviceability.

The resulting scheme of Imperial usufruct should accordingly be of a considerate, not to say
in effect humane, character,--always provided that the requisite degree of submission and subservience
("law and order") can be enforced by a system of coercion so humane as not to reduce the number
of the inhabitants or materially to lower their physical powers. Such would, by reasonable
expectation, be the character of this projected Imperial tutelage and usufruct of the nations
of Christendom. In its working-out this German project should accordingly differ very appreciably
from the policy which its imperial ambitions have constrained the Japanese establishment to
pursue in its dealings with the life and fortunes of its recently, and currently, acquired
subject peoples.

The better to appreciate in some concrete fashion what should, by reasonable expectation, be
the terms on which life might so be carried on sub pace germanica, attention may be invited
to certain typical instances of such peace by abnegation among contemporary peoples. Perhaps
at the top of the list stands India, with its many and varied native peoples, subject to British
tutelage, but, the British apologists say, not subject to British usufruct. The margin of tolerance
in this instance is fairly wide, but its limits are sharply drawn. India is wanted and held,
not for tribute or revenue to be paid into the Imperial treasury, nor even for exclusive trade
privileges or preferences, but mainly as a preserve to provide official occupation and emoluments
for British gentlemen not otherwise occupied or provided for; and secondarily as a means of
safeguarding lucrative British investments, that is to say, investments by British capitalists
of high and low degree. The current British professions on the subject of this occupation of
India, and at times the shamefaced apology for it, is that the people of India suffer no hardship
by this means; the resulting governmental establishment being no more onerous and no more expensive
to them than any equally, or even any less, competent government of their own would necessarily
be. The fact, however, remains, that India affords a much needed and very considerable net
revenue to the class of British gentlemen, in the shape of official salaries and pensions,
which the British gentry at large can on no account forego. Narrowed to these proportions it
is readily conceivable that the British usufruct of India should rest with no extraordinary
weight on the Indian people at large, however burdensome it may at times become to those classes
who aspire to take over the usufruct in case the British establishment can be dislodged. This
case evidently differs very appreciably from the projected German usufruct of neighboring countries
in Europe.

A case that may be more nearly in point would be that of any one of the countries subject to
the Turkish rule in recent times; although these instances scarcely show just what to expect
under the projected German régime. The Turkish rule has been notably inefficient, considered
as a working system of dynastic usufruct; whereas it is confidently expected that the corresponding
German system would show quite an exceptional degree of efficiency for the purpose. This Turkish
inefficiency has had a two-fold effect, which should not appear in the German case. Through
administrative abuses intended to serve the personal advantage of the irresponsible officials,
the underlying peoples have suffered a progressive exhaustion and dilapidation; whereby the
central authority, the dynastic establishment, has also grown progressively, cumulatively weaker
and therefore less able to control its agents; and, in the second place, on the same grounds,
in the pursuit of personal gain, and prompted by personal animosities, these irresponsible
agents have persistently carried their measures of extortion beyond reasonable bounds,--that
is to say beyond the bounds which a well considered plan of permanent usufruct would countenance.
All this would be otherwise and more sensibly arranged under German Imperial auspices.

One of the nations that have fallen under Turkish rule--and Turkish peace--affords a valuable
illustration of a secondary point that is to be considered in connection with any plan of peace
by submission. The Armenian people have in later time come partly under Russian dominion, and
so have been exposed to the Russian system of bureaucratic exploitation; and the difference
between Russian and Turkish Armenia is instructive. According to all credible--that is unofficial--accounts,
conditions are perceptibly more tolerable in Russian Armenia. Well informed persons relate
that the cause for this more lenient, or less extreme, administration of affairs under Russian
officials is a selective death rate among them, such that a local official who persistently
exceeds a certain ill-defined limit of tolerance is removed by what would under other circumstances
be called an untimely death. No adequate remedy has been found, within the large limits which
Russian bureaucratic administration habitually allows itself in questions of coercion. The
Turk, on the other hand, less deterred by considerations of long-term expediency, and, it may
be, less easily influenced by outside opinion on any point of humanity, has found a remedy
in the systematic extirpation of any village in which an illicit death occurs. One will incline
to presume that on this head the German Imperial procedure would be more after the Russian
than after the Turkish pattern; although latterday circumstantial evidence will throw some
sinister doubt on the reasonableness of such an expectation.

It is plain, however, that the Turkish remedy for this form of insubordination is a wasteful
means of keeping the peace. Plainly, to the home office, the High Command, the extinction of
a village with its population is a more substantial loss than the unseasonable decease of one
of its administrative agents; particularly when it is called to mind that such a decease will
presumably follow only on such profligate excesses of naughtiness as are bound to be inexcusably
unprofitable to the central authority. It may be left an open question how far a corrective
of this nature can hopefully be looked to as applicable, in case of need, under the projected
German Imperial usufruct.

It may, I apprehend, be said without offense that there is no depth of depravity below the
ordinary reach of the Russian bureaucracy; but this organisation finds itself constrained,
after all, to use circumspection and set some limits on individual excursions beyond the bounds
of decency and humanity, so soon as these excesses touch the common or joint interest of the
organisation. Any excess of atrocity, beyond a certain margin of tolerance, on the part of
any one of its members is likely to work pecuniary mischief to the rest; and then, the bureaucratic
conduct of affairs is also, after all, in an uncertain degree subject to some surveillance
by popular sentiment at home or abroad. The like appears not to hold true of the Turkish official
organisation. The difference may be due to a less provident spirit among the latter, as already
indicated. But a different tradition, perhaps an outgrowth of this lack of providence and of
the consequent growth of a policy of "frightfulness," may also come in for a share in the outcome;
and there is also a characteristic difference in point of religious convictions, which may
go some way in the same direction. The followers of Islam appear on the whole to take the tenets
of their faith at their face value--servile, intolerant and fanatic--whereas the Russian official
class may perhaps without undue reproach be considered to have on the whole outlived the superstitious
conceits to which they yield an expedient pro forma observance. So that when worse comes to
worst, and the Turk finds himself at length with his back against the last consolations of
the faith that makes all things straight, he has the assured knowledge that he is in the right
as against the unbelievers; whereas the Russian bureaucrat in a like case only knows that he
is in the wrong. The last extremity is a less conclusive argument to the man in whose apprehension
it is not the last extremity. Again, there is some shadow of doubt falls on the question as
to which of these is more nearly in the German Imperial spirit.

On the whole, the case of China is more to the point. By and large, the people of China, more
particularly the people of the coastal-plains region, have for long habitually lived under
a régime of peace by non-resistance. The peace has been broken transiently from time to time,
and local disturbances have not been infrequent; but, taken by and large, the situation has
habitually been of the peaceful order, on a ground of non-resisting submission. But this submission
has not commonly been of a whole-hearted kind, and it has also commonly been associated with
a degree of persistent sabotage; which has clogged and retarded the administration of governmental
law and order, and has also been conducive to a large measure of irresponsible official corruption.
The habitual scheme of things Chinese in this bearing may fairly be described as a peace of
non-resistance tempered with sabotage and assassination. Such was the late Manchu régime, and
there is no reason in China for expecting a substantially different outcome from the Japanese
invasion that is now under way. The nature of this Japanese incursion should be sufficiently
plain. It is an enterprise in statecraft after the order of Macchiavelli, Metternich, and Bismarck.
Of course, the conciliatory fables given out by the diplomatic service, and by the other apologists,
are to be taken at the normal discount of one-hundred percent. The relatively large current
output of such fables may afford a hint as to the magnitude of the designs which the fables
are intended to cover.

The Chinese people have had a more extended experience in peace of this order than all others,
and their case should accordingly be instructive beyond all others. Not that a European peace
by non-resistance need be expected to run very closely on the Chinese lines, but there should
be a reasonable expectation that the large course of things would be somewhat on the same order
in both cases. Neither the European traditions and habitual temperament nor the modern state
of the industrial arts will permit one to look for anything like a close parallel in detail;
but it remains true, when all is said, that the Chinese experience of peace under submission
to alien masters affords the most instructive illustration of such a régime, as touches its
practicability, its methods, its cultural value, and its effect on the fortunes of the subject
peoples and of their masters.

Now, it may be said by way of preliminary generalisation that the life-history of the Chinese
people and their culture is altogether the most imposing achievement which the records of mankind
have to show; whereas the history of their successive alien establishments of mastery and usufruct
is an unbroken sequence of incredibly shameful episodes,--always beginning in unbounded power
and vainglory, running by way of misrule, waste and debauchery, to an inglorious finish in
abject corruption and imbecility. Always have the gains in civilisation, industry and in the
arts, been made by the subject Chinese, and always have their alien masters contributed nothing
to the outcome but misrule, waste, corruption and decay. And yet in the long run, with all
this handicap and misrule, the Chinese people have held their place and made headway in those
things to which men look with affection and esteem when they come to take stock of what things
are worth while. It would be a hopeless task to count up how many dynasties of masterful barbarians,
here and there, have meanwhile come up and played their ephemeral role of vainglorious nuisance
and gone under in shame and confusion, and dismissed with the invariable verdict of "Good Riddance!"

It may at first sight seem a singular conjuncture of circumstances, but it is doubtless a consequence
of the same conjuncture, that the Chinese people have also kept their hold through all history
on the Chinese lands. They have lived and multiplied and continued to occupy the land, while
their successive alien masters have come and gone. So that today, as the outcome of conquest,
and of what would be rated as defeat, the people continue to be Chinese, with an unbroken pedigree
as well as an unbroken line of home-bred culture running through all the ages of history. In
the biological respect the Chinese plan of non-resistance has proved eminently successful.

And, by the way, much the same, though not in the same degree, is true for the Armenian people;
who have continued to hold their hill country through good days and evil, apparently without
serious or enduring reduction of their numbers and without visible lapse into barbarism, while
the successive disconnected dynasties of their conquering rulers have come and gone, leaving
nothing but an ill name. "This fable teaches" that a diligent attention to the growing of crops
and children is the sure and appointed way to the maintenance of a people and its culture even
under the most adverse conditions, and that eventual death and shameful destruction inexorably
wait on any "ruling race." Hitherto the rule has not failed. The rule, indeed, is grounded
in the heritable traits of human nature, from which there is no escape.

For its long-term biological success, as well as for the continued integrity of a people's
culture, a peace of non-resistance, under good or evil auspices, is more to be desired than
imperial dominion. But these things are not all that modern peoples live for, perhaps it is
safe to say that in no case are these chief among the things for which civilised Europeans
are willing to live. They urgently need also freedom to live their own life in their own way,
or rather to live within the bonds of convention which they have come in for by use and wont,
or at least they believe that such freedom is essential to any life that shall be quite worth
while. So also they have a felt need of security from arbitrary interference in their pursuit
of a livelihood and in the free control of their own pecuniary concerns. And they want a discretionary
voice in the management of their joint interests, whether as a nation or in a minor civil group.
In short, they want personal, pecuniary and political liberty, free from all direction or inhibition
from without. They are also much concerned to maintain favorable economic conditions for themselves
and their children. And last, but chiefly rather than least, they commonly are hide-bound patriots
inspired with an intractable felt need of national prestige.

It is an assemblage of peoples in such a frame of mind to whom the pacifists are proposing,
in effect, a plan for eventual submission to an alien dynasty, under the form of a neutral
peace compact to include the warlike Powers. There is little likelihood of such a scheme being
found acceptable, with popular sentiment running as it now does in the countries concerned.
And yet, if the brittle temper in which any such proposal is rejected by popular opinion in
these countries today could be made to yield sufficiently to reflection and deliberate appraisal,
it is by no means a foregone conclusion that its acceptance would not be the best way out of
a critical situation. The cost of disabling and eliminating the warlike Power whose dominion
is feared, or even of staving off the day of surrender, is evidently serious enough. The merits
of the alternative should be open to argument, and should, indeed, be allowed due consideration.
And any endeavour to present them without heat should presumably find a hearing. It appears
to have been much of the fault of the pacifists who speak for the Peace League that they have
failed or refused to recognise these ulterior consequences of the plan which they advocate;
so that they appear either not to know what they are talking about, or to avoid talking about
what they know.

It will be evident from beforehand that the grave difficulty to be met in any advocacy of peace
on terms of non-resistant subjection to an alien dynastic rule--"peace at any price"--is a
difficulty of the psychological order. Whatever may be conceived to hold true for the Chinese
people, such submission is repugnant to the sentiments of the Western peoples. Which in turn
evidently is due to the prevalence of certain habitual preconceptions among modern civilised
men,--certain acquired traits of temper and bias, of the nature of fixed ideas. That something
in the way of a reasonably contented and useful life is possible under such a régime as is
held in prospect, and even some tolerable degree of well-being, is made evident in the Chinese
case. But the Chinese tolerance of such a régime goes to argue that they are charged with fewer
preconceptions at variance with the exigencies of life under these conditions. So, it is commonly
accepted, and presumably to be accepted, that the Chinese people at large have little if any
effectual sense of nationality; their patriotism appears to be nearly a negligible quantity.
This would appear to an outsider to have been their besetting weakness, to which their successful
subjection by various and sundry ambitious aliens has been due. But it appears also to have
been the infirmity by grace of which this people have been obliged to learn the ways of submission,
and so have had the fortune to outlive their alien masters, all and sundry, and to occupy the
land and save the uncontaminated integrity of their long-lived civilisation.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some account of the nature and uses of this spirit of patriotism that is held of so great account
among Western nations has already been set out in an earlier passage. One or two points in
the case, that bear on the argument here, may profitably be recalled. The patriotic spirit,
or the tie of nationalism, is evidently of the nature of habit, whatever proclivity to the
formation of such a habit may be native to mankind. More particularly is it a matter of habit--it
might even be called a matter of fortuitous habit--what particular national establishment a
given human subject will become attached to on reaching what is called "years of discretion"
and so becoming a patriotic citizen.

The analogy of the clam may not be convincing, but it may at least serve to suggest what may
be the share played by habituation in the matter of national attachment. The young clam, after
having passed the free-swimming phase of his life, as well as the period of attachment to the
person of a carp or similar fish, drops to the bottom and attaches himself loosely in the place
and station in life to which he has been led; and he loyally sticks to his particular patch
of ooze and sand through good fortune and evil. It is, under Providence, something of a fortuitous
matter where the given clam shall find a resting place for the sole of his foot, but it is
also, after all, "his own, his native land" etc. It lies in the nature of a clam to attach
himself after this fashion, loosely, to the bottom where he finds a living, and he would not
be a "good clam and true" if he failed to do so; but the particular spot for which he forms
this attachment is not of the essence of the case. At least, so they say.

It may be, as good men appear to believe or know, that all men of sound, or at least those
of average, mind will necessarily be of a patriotic temper and be attached by ties of loyalty
to some particular national establishment, ordinarily the particular establishment which is
formally identified with the land in which they live; although it is always possible that a
given individual may be an alien in the land, and so may owe allegiance to and be ruled by
a patriotic attachment to another national establishment, to which the conventionalities governing
his special case have assigned him as his own proper nation. The analogy of the clam evidently
does not cover the case. The patriotic citizen is attached to his own proper nationality not
altogether by the accident of domicile, but rather by the conventions, legal or customary,
which assign him to this or that national establishment according to certain principles of
use and wont.

Mere legal citizenship or allegiance does not decide the matter either; at least not by any
means unavoidably; as appears in the case of the Chinese subject under Manchu or Japanese rule;
and as appears perhaps more perspicuously in the case of the "hyphenate" American citizen,
whose formal allegiance is to the nation in whose land he prefers to live, all the while that
his patriotic affection centers on his spiritual Fatherland in whose fortunes he has none but
a non-resident interest. Indeed, the particular national tie that will bind the affections--that
is to say the effectual patriotic attachment--of any given individual may turn out on closer
scrutiny to be neither that of domicile or of formal legal allegiance, nor that of putative
origin or pedigree, but only a reflex of certain national animosities; which may also turn
out on examination to rest on putative grounds--as illustrated by a subsidiary class of hyphenate
American citizens whose affections have come to be bound up in the national fortunes of one
foreign Power for the simple, but sufficient, reason that, on conventional grounds, they bear
malice against another equally foreign Power.

Evidently there is much sophistication, not to say conventionalised affectation, in all this
national attachment and allegiance. It will perhaps not do to say that it is altogether a matter
of sophistication. Yet it may not exceed the premises to say that the particular choice, the
concrete incidence, of this national attachment is in any given case a matter of sophistication,
largely tempered with fortuity. One is born into a given nationality--or, in case of dynastic
allegiance, into service and devotion to a (fortuitously) given sovereign--or at least so it
is commonly believed. Still one can without blame, and without excessive shame, shift one's
allegiance on occasion. What is not countenanced among civilised men is to shift out of allegiance
to any given nationality or dynasty without shifting into the like complication of gainless
obligations somewhere else. Such a shifting of national or dynastic base is not quite reputable,
though it is also not precisely disreputable. The difficulty in the case appears to be a moral
difficulty, not a mental or a pecuniary one, and assuredly not a physical difficulty, since
the relation in question is not a physical relation. It would appear to be of the moral order
of things, in that sense of the term in which conventional proprieties are spoken of as moral.
That is to say, it is a question of conforming to current expectations under a code of conventional
proprieties. Like much of the conventional code of behavior this patriotic attachment has the
benefit of standardised decorum, and its outward manifestations are enjoined by law. All of
which goes to show how very seriously the whole matter is regarded.

And yet it is also a matter of common notoriety that large aggregates of men, not to speak
of sporadic individuals, will on occasion shift their allegiance with the most felicitous effect
and with no sensible loss of self-respect or of their good name. Such a shift is to be seen
in multiple in the German nation within the past half-century, when, for instance, the Hanoverians,
the Saxons, and even the Holsteiners in very appreciable numbers, not to mention the subjects
of minuscular principalities whose names have been forgotten in the shuffle, all became good
and loyal subjects of the Empire and of the Imperial dynasty,--good and loyal without reservation,
as has abundantly appeared. So likewise within a similar period the inhabitants of the Southern
States repudiated their allegiance to the Union, putting in its place an equivalent loyalty
to their new-made country; and then, when the new national establishment slipped out from under
their feet they returned as whole-heartedly as need be to their earlier allegiance. In each
of these moves, taken with deliberation, it is not to be doubted that this body of citizens
have been moved by an unimpeachable spirit of patriotic honour. No one who is in any degree
conversant with the facts is likely to question the declaration that it would be a perversion,
not to say an inversion, of fact to rate their patriotic devotion to the Union today lower
than that of any other section of the country or any other class or condition of men.

But there is more, and in a sense worse, to be found along the same general line of evidence
touching this sublimated sentiment of group solidarity that is called nationalism. The nation,
of course, is large; the larger the better, it is believed. It is so large, indeed, that considered
as a group or community of men living together it has no sensible degree of homogeneity in
any of their material circumstances or interests; nor is anything more than an inconsiderable
fraction of the aggregate population, territory, industry, or daily life known to any one of
these patriotic citizens except by remote and highly dubious hearsay. The one secure point
on which there is a (constructive) uniformity is the matter of national allegiance; which grows
stronger and more confident with every increase in aggregate mass and volume. It is also not
doubtful, e.g., that if the people of the British Dominions in North America should choose
to throw in their national lot with the Union, all sections and classes, except those whose
pecuniary interest in a protective tariff might be conceived to suffer, would presently welcome
them; nor is it doubtful that American nationality would cover the new and larger aggregate
as readily as the old. Much the same will hold true with respect to the other countries colonised
under British auspices. And there is no conclusive reason for drawing the limit of admissible
national extension at that point.

So much, however, is fairly within the possibilities of the calculable future; its realisation
would turn in great measure on the discontinuance of certain outworn or disserviceable institutional
arrangements; as, e.g., the remnants of a decayed monarchy, and the legally protected vested
interests of certain business enterprises and of certain office-holding classes. What more
and farther might practicably be undertaken in this way, in the absence of marplot office-holders,
office-seekers, sovereigns, priests and monopolistic business concerns sheltered under national
animosities and restraints of trade, would be something not easy to assign a limit to. All
the minor neutrals, that cluster about the North Sea, could unquestionably be drawn into such
a composite nationality, in the absence, or with due disregard, of those classes, families
and individuals whose pecuniary or invidious gain is dependent on or furthered by the existing
division of these peoples.

The projected defensive league of neutrals is, in effect, an inchoate coalescence of the kind.
Its purpose is the safeguarding of the common peace and freedom, which is also the avowed purpose
and justification of all those modern nations that have outlived the régime of dynastic ambition
and so of enterprise in dominion for dominion's sake, and have passed into the neutral phase
of nationality; or it should perhaps rather be said that such is the end of endeavour and the
warrant of existence and power for these modern national establishments in so far as they have
outlived and repudiated such ambitions of a dynastic or a quasi-dynastic order, and so have
taken their place as intrinsically neutral commonwealths.

It is only in the common defense (or in the defense of the like conditions of life for their
fellowmen elsewhere) that the citizens of such a commonwealth can without shame entertain or
put in evidence a spirit of patriotic solidarity; and it is only by specious and sophistical
appeal to the national honour--a conceit surviving out of the dynastic past--that the populace
of such a commonwealth can be stirred to anything beyond a defense of their own proper liberties
or the liberties of like-minded men elsewhere, in so far as they are not still imbued with
something of the dynastic animus and the chauvinistic animosities which they have formally
repudiated in repudiating the feudalistic principles of the dynastic State.

The "nation," without the bond of dynastic loyalty, is after all a make-shift idea, an episodic
half-way station in the sequence, and loyalty, in any proper sense, to the nation as such is
so much of a make-believe, that in the absence of a common defense to be safeguarded any such
patriotic conceit must lose popular assurance and, with the passing of generations, fall insensibly
into abeyance as an archaic affectation. The pressure of danger from without is necessary to
keep the national spirit alert and stubborn, in case the pressure from within, that comes of
dynastic usufruct working for dominion, has been withdrawn. With further extension of the national
boundaries, such that the danger of gratuitous infraction from without grows constantly less
menacing, while the traditional régime of international animosities falls more and more remotely
into the background, the spirit of nationalism is fairly on the way to obsolescence through
disuse. In other words, the nation, as a commonwealth, being a partisan organisation for a
defensive purpose, becomes functa officio in respect of its nationalism and its patriotic ties
in somewhat the same measure as the national coalition grows to such a size that partisanship
is displaced by a cosmopolitan security.

Doubtless the falling into abeyance through disuse of so pleasing a virtue as patriotic devotion
will seem an impossibly distasteful consummation; and about tastes there is no disputing, but
tastes are mainly creations of habit. Except for the disquieting name of the thing, there is
today little stands in the way of a cosmopolitan order of human intercourse unobtrusively displacing
national allegiance; except for vested interests in national offices and international discriminations,
and except for those peoples among whom national life still is sufficiently bound up with dynastic
ambition.

In an earlier passage the patriotic spirit has been defined as a sense of partisan solidarity
in point of prestige, and sufficient argument has been spent in confirming the definition and
showing its implications. With the passing of all occasion for a partisan spirit as touches
the common good, through coalescence of the parts between which partisan discrepancies have
hitherto been kept up, there would also have passed all legitimate occasion for or provocation
to an intoxication of invidious prestige on national lines,--and there is no prestige that
is not of an invidious nature, that being, indeed, the whole of its nature. He would have to
be a person of praeternatural patriotic sensibilities who could fall into an emotional state
by reason of the national prestige of such a coalition commonwealth as would be made up, e.g.,
of the French and English-speaking peoples, together with those other neutrally and peaceably
inclined European communities that are of a sufficiently mature order to have abjured dynastic
ambitions of dominion, and perhaps including the Chinese people as well. Such a coalition may
now fairly be said to be within speaking distance, and with its consummation, even in the inchoate
shape of a defensive league of neutrals, the eventual abeyance of that national allegiance
and national honour that bulks so large in the repertory of current eloquence would also come
in prospect.

All this is by no means saying that love of country, and of use and wont as it runs in one's
home area and among one's own people, would suffer decay, or even abatement. The provocation
to nostalgia would presumably be as good as ever. It is even conceivable that under such a
(contemplated) régime of unconditional security, attachment to one's own habitat and social
circumstances might grow to something more than is commonly seen in the precarious situation
in which the chances of a quiet life are placed today. But nostalgia is not a bellicose distemper,
nor does it make for gratuitous disturbance of peaceable alien peoples; neither is it the spirit
in which men lend themselves to warlike enterprise looking to profitless dominion abroad. Men
make patriotic sacrifices of life and substance in spite of home-sickness rather than by virtue
of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The aim of this long digression has been to show that patriotism, of that bellicose kind that
seeks satisfaction in inflicting damage and discomfort on the people of other nations, is not
of the essence of human life; that it is of the nature of habit, induced by circumstances in
the past and handed on by tradition and institutional arrangements into the present; and that
men can, without mutilation, divest themselves of it, or perhaps rather be divested of it by
force of circumstances which will set the current of habituation the contrary way.

The change of habituation necessary to bring about such a decay of the bellicose national spirit
would appear to be of a negative order, at least in the main. It would be an habituation to
unconditional peace and security; in other words, to the absence of provocation, rather than
a coercive training away from the bellicose temper. This bellicose temper, as it affects men
collectively, appears to be an acquired trait; and it should logically disappear in time in
the absence of those conditions by impact of which it has been acquired. Such obsolescence
of patriotism, however, would not therefore come about abruptly or swiftly, since the patriotic
spirit has by past use and wont, and by past indoctrination, been so thoroughly worked into
the texture of the institutional fabric and into the commonsense taste and morality, that its
effectual obsolescence will involve a somewhat comprehensive displacement and mutation throughout
the range of institutions and popular conceits that have been handed down. And institutional
changes take time, being creations of habit. Yet, again, there is the qualification to this
last, that since the change in question appears to be a matter, not of acquiring a habit and
confirming it in the shape of an article of general use and wont, but of forgetting what once
was learned, the time and experience to be allowed for its decay need logically not equal that
required for its acquirement, either in point of duration or in point of the strictness of
discipline necessary to inculcate it.

While the spirit of nationalism is such an acquired trait, and while it should therefore follow
that the chief agency in divesting men of it must be disuse of the discipline out of which
it has arisen, yet a positive, and even something of a drastic discipline to the contrary effect
need not be altogether ineffectual in bringing about its obsolescence. The case of the Chinese
people seems to argue something of the sort. Not that the Chinese are simply and neutrally
unpatriotic; they appear also to be well charged with disloyalty to their alien rulers. But
along with a sense of being on the defensive in their common concerns, there is also the fact
that they appear not to be appreciably patriotic in the proper sense; they are not greatly
moved by a spirit of nationality. And this failure of the national spirit among them can scarcely
be set down to a neutral disuse of that discipline which has on the other hand induced a militant
nationalism in the peoples of Christendom; it should seem more probable, at least, that this
relative absence of a national ambition is traceable in good part to its having been positively
bred out of them by the stern repression of all such aspirations under the autocratic rule
of their alien masters.

       *       *       *       *       *

Peace on terms of submission and non-resistance to the ordinary exactions and rulings of those
Imperial authorities to whom such submission may become necessary, then, will be contingent
on the virtual abeyance of the spirit of national pride in the peoples who so are to come under
Imperial rule. A sufficient, by no means necessarily a total, elimination or decadence of this
proclivity will be the condition precedent of any practicable scheme for a general peace on
this footing. How large an allowance of such animus these prospectively subject peoples might
still carry, without thereby assuring the defeat of any such plan, would in great measure depend
on the degree of clemency or rigor with which the superior authority might enforce its rule.
It is not that a peace plan of this nature need precisely be considered to fall outside the
limits of possibility, on account of this necessary condition, but it is at the best a manifestly
doubtful matter. Advocates of a negotiated peace should not fail to keep in mind and make public
that the plan which they advocate carries with it, as a sequel or secondary phase, such an
unconditional surrender and a consequent régime of non-resistance, and that there still is
grave doubt whether the peoples of these Western nations are at present in a sufficiently tolerant
frame of mind, or can in the calculable future come in for such a tolerantly neutral attitude
in point of national pride, as to submit in any passable fashion to any alien Imperial rule.

If the spiritual difficulty presented by this prevalent spirit of national pride--sufficiently
stubborn still, however inane a conceit it may seem on sober reflection--if this animus of
factional insubordination could be overcome or in some passable measure be conciliated or abated,
there is much to be said in favor of such a plan of peaceable submission to an extraneous and
arbitrary authority, and therefore also for that plan of negotiated peace by means of which
events would be put in train for its realisation.

Any passably dispassionate consideration of the projected régime will come unavoidably to the
conclusion that the prospectively subject peoples should have no legitimate apprehension of
loss or disadvantage in the material respect. It is, of course, easy for an unreflecting person
to jump to the conclusion that subjection to an alien power must bring grievous burdens, in
the way of taxes and similar impositions. But reflection will immediately show that no appreciable
increase, over the economic burdens already carried by the populace under their several national
establishments, could come of such a move.

As bearing on this question it is well to call to mind that the contemplated imperial dominion
is designed to be very wide-reaching and with very ample powers. Its nearest historical analogue,
of course, is the Roman imperial dominion--in the days of the Antonines--and that the nearest
analogue to the projected German peace is the Roman peace, in the days of its best security.
There is every warrant for the presumption that the contemplated Imperial dominion is to be
substantially all-inclusive. Indeed there is no stopping place for the projected enterprise
short of an all-inclusive dominion. And there will consequently be no really menacing outside
power to be provided against. Consequently there will be but little provision necessary for
the common defense, as compared, e.g., with the aggregate of such provision found necessary
for self-defense on the part of the existing nations acting in severalty and each jealously
guarding its own national integrity. Indeed, compared with the burden of competitive armament
to which the peoples of Europe have been accustomed, the need of any armed force under the
new régime should be an inconsiderable matter, even when there is added to the necessary modicum
of defensive preparation the more imperative and weightier provision of force with which to
keep the peace at home.

Into the composition of this necessary modicum of armed force slight if any contingents of
men would be drawn from the subject peoples, for the reason that no great numbers would be
needed; as also because no devoted loyalty to the dynasty could reasonably be looked for among
them, even if no positive insecurity were felt to be involved in their employment. On this
head the projected scheme unambiguously commends itself as a measure of economy, both in respect
of the pecuniary burdens demanded and as regards the personal annoyance of military service.

As a further count, it is to be presumed that the burden of the Imperial government and its
bureaucratic administration--what would be called the cost of maintenance and repairs of the
dynastic establishment and its apparatus of control--would be borne by the subject peoples.
Here again one is warranted in looking for a substantial economy to be effected by such a centralised
authority, and a consequent lighter aggregate burden on the subjects. Doubtless, the "overhead
charges" would not be reduced to their practicable minimum. Such a governmental establishment,
with its bureaucratic personnel, its "civil list" and its privileged classes, would not be
conducted on anything like a parsimonious footing. There is no reason to apprehend any touch
of modesty in the exactions of such a dynastic establishment for itself or in behalf of its
underlying hierarchy of gentlefolk.

There is also to be counted in, in the concrete instance on which the argument here turns,
a more or less considerable burden of contributions toward the maintenance and augmentation
of that culture that has been the topic of so many encomiums. At this point it should be recalled
that it is the pattern of Periclean Athens that is continually in mind in these encomiums.
Which brings up, in this immediate connection, the dealings of Periclean Athens with the funds
of the League, and the source as well as the destination of these surplus funds. Out of it
all came the works on the Acropolis, together with much else of intellectual and artistic life
that converged upon and radiated from this Athenian center of culture. The vista of Denkmäler
that so opens to the vision of a courageous fancy is in itself such a substance of things hoped
for as should stir the heart of all humane persons.[8] The cost of this subvention of Culture
would doubtless be appreciable, but those grave men who have spent most thought on this prospective
cultural gain to be had from the projected Imperial rule appear to entertain no doubt as to
its being worth all that it would cost.

[Footnote 8: Denk 'mall]

Any one who is inclined to rate the prospective pecuniary costs and losses high would doubtless
be able to find various and sundry items of minor importance to add to this short list of general
categories on the side of cost; but such additional items, not fairly to be included under
these general captions, would after all be of minor importance, in the aggregate or in detail,
and would not appreciably affect the grand balance of pecuniary profit and loss to be taken
account of in any appraisal of the projected Imperial régime. There should evidently be little
ground to apprehend that its installation would entail a net loss or a net increase of pecuniary
burdens. There is, of course, the ill-defined and scarcely definable item of expenditure under
the general head of Gentility, Dignity, Distinction, Magnificence, or whatever term may seem
suitable to designate that consumption of goods and services that goes to maintain the high
repute of the Court and to keep the underlying gentlefolk in countenance. In its pecuniary
incidence this line of (necessary) expenditure belongs under the rubric of Conspicuous Waste;
and one will always have to face the disquieting flexibility of this item of expenditure. The
consumptive demand of this kind is in an eminent degree "indefinitely extensible," as the phrasing
of the economists would have it, and as various historical instances of courtly splendor and
fashionable magnificence will abundantly substantiate. There is a constant proclivity to advance
this conventional "standard of living" to the limit set by the available means; and yet these
conventional necessities will ordinarily not, in the aggregate, take up all the available means;
although now and again, as under the Ancien Régime, and perhaps in Imperial Rome, the standard
of splendid living may also exceed the current means in hand and lead to impoverishment of
the underlying community.

An analysis of the circumstances governing this flexibility of the conventional standard of
living and of pecuniary magnificence can not be gone into here. In the case under consideration
it will have to be left as an indeterminate but considerable item in the burden of cost which
the projected Imperial rule may be counted on to impose on the underlying peoples. The cost
of the Imperial court, nobility, and civil service, therefore, would be a matter of estimate,
on which no close agreement would be expected; and yet, here as in an earlier connection, it
seems a reasonable expectation that sufficient dignity and magnificence could be put in evidence
by such a large-scale establishment at a lower aggregate cost than the aggregate of expenditures
previously incurred for the like ends by various nations working in severalty and at cross
purposes.

Doubtless it would be altogether a mistaken view of this production of dignity by means of
a lavish expenditure on superfluities, to believe that the same principle of economy should
apply here as was found applicable in the matter of armament for defense. With the installation
of a collective national establishment, to include substantially all the previously competing
nations, the need of defensive armament should in all reason decline to something very inconsiderable
indeed. But it would be hasty to conclude that with the coalescence of these nations under
one paramount control the need of creating notoriety and prestige for this resulting central
establishment by the consumption of decorative superfluities would likewise decline. The need
of such dignity and magnificence is only in part, perhaps a minor part, of a defensive character.
For the greater part, no doubt, the motive to this conspicuously wasteful consumption is personal
vanity, in Imperial policy as well as in the private life of fashion,--or perhaps one should
more deferentially say that it is a certain range of considerations which would be identified
as personal vanity in case they were met with among men beneath the Imperial level. And so
far as the creation of this form of "good-will" by this manner of advertising is traceable
to such, or equivalent, motives of a personal incidence, the provocation to economy along this
line would presumably not be a notable factor in the case. And one returns perforce to the
principle already spoken of above, that the consumptive need of superfluities is indefinitely
extensible, with the resulting inference that nothing conclusive is to be said as to the prospective
magnitude of this item in the Imperial bill of expense, or of the consequent pecuniary burdens
which it would impose on the underlying peoples.

       *       *       *       *       *

So far the argument has run on the pecuniary incidence of this projected Imperial dominion
as it falls on the underlying community as a whole, with no attempt to discriminate between
the divergent interests of the different classes and conditions of men that go to make up any
modern community. The question in hand is a question of pecuniary burdens, and therefore of
the pecuniary interests of these several distinguishable classes or conditions of men. In all
these modern nations that now stand in the article of decision between peace by submission
or a doubtful and melancholy alternative,--in all of them men are by statute and custom inviolably
equal before the law, of course; they are ungraded and masterless men before the law. But these
same peoples are also alike in the respect that pecuniary duties and obligations among them
are similarly sacred and inviolable under the dispassionate findings of the law. This pecuniary
equality is, in effect, an impersonal equality between pecuniary magnitudes; from which it
follows that these citizens of the advanced nations are not ungraded men in the pecuniary respect;
nor are they masterless, in so far as a greater pecuniary force will always, under this impersonal
equality of the law, stand in a relation of mastery toward a lesser one.

Class distinctions, except pecuniary distinctions, have fallen away. But all these modern nations
are made up of pecuniary classes, differing from one another by minute gradations in the marginal
cases, but falling, after all, and in the large, into two broadly and securely distinguishable
pecuniary categories: those who have more and those who have less. Statisticians have been
at pains to ascertain that a relatively very small numerical minority of the citizens in these
modern nations own all but a relatively very small proportion of the aggregate wealth in the
country. So that it appears quite safe to say that in such a country as America, e.g., something
less than ten percent of the inhabitants own something more than ninety percent of the country's
wealth. It would scarcely be a wild overstraining of its practical meaning to say that this
population is made up of two classes: those who own the country's wealth, and those who do
not. In strict accuracy, as before the law, this characterisation will not hold; whereas in
practical effect, it is a sufficiently close approximation. This latter class, who have substantially
no other than a fancied pecuniary interest in the nation's material fortunes, are the category
often spoken of as The Common Man. It is not necessary, nor is it desired, to find a corresponding
designation for the other category, those who own.

The articulate recognition of this division into contrasted pecuniary classes or conditions,
with correspondingly (at least potentially) divergent pecuniary interests, need imply no degree
of approval or disapproval of the arrangement which is so recognised. The recognition of it
is necessary to a perspicuous control of the argument, as bears on the possible systematic
and inherent discrepancy among these men in respect of their material interests under the projected
Imperial rule. Substantially, it is a distinction between those who have and those who have
not, and in a question of prospective pecuniary loss the man who has nothing to lose is differently
placed from the one who has. It would perhaps seem flippant, and possibly lacking in the courtesy
due one's prospective lord paramount, to say with the poet, Cantabit vacuus coram latrone viator.

But the whole case is not so simple. It is only so long as the projected pecuniary inroad is
conceived as a simple sequestration of wealth in hand, that such a characterisation can be
made to serve. The Imperial aim is not a passing act of pillage, but a perpetual usufruct;
and the whole question takes on a different and more complex shape when it so touches the enduring
conditions of life and livelihood. The citizen who has nothing, or who has no capitalisable
source of unearned income, yet has a pecuniary interest in a livelihood to be gained from day
to day, and he is yet vulnerable in the pecuniary respect in that his livelihood may with the
utmost facility be laid under contribution by various and sundry well-tried contrivances. Indeed,
the common man who depends for his livelihood on his daily earnings is in a more immediately
precarious position than those who have something appreciable laid up against a rainy day,
in the shape of a capitalised source of income. Only that it is still doubtful if his position
is precarious in such a fashion as to lay him open to a notable increase of hardship, or to
loss of the amenities of life, in the same relative degree as his well-to-do neighbour.

In point of fact it may well be doubted if this common man has anything to apprehend in the
way of added hardship or loss of creature comforts under the contemplated régime of Imperial
tutelage. He would presumably find himself in a precarious case under the arbitrary and irresponsible
authority of an alien master working through an alien master class. The doubt which presents
itself is as to whether this common man would be more precariously placed, or would come in
for a larger and surer sum of hard usage and scant living, under this projected order of things,
than what he already is exposed to in his pecuniary relations with his well-to-do compatriots
under the current system of law and order.

Under this current régime of law and order, according to the equitable principles of Natural
Rights, the man without means has no pecuniary rights which his well-to-do pecuniary master
is bound to respect. This may have been an unintended, as it doubtless was an unforeseen, outcome
of the move out of feudalism and prescriptive rights and immunities, into the system of individual
liberty and manhood franchise; but as commonly happens in case of any substantial change in
the scheme of institutional arrangements, unforeseen consequences come in along with those
that have been intended. In that period of history when Western Europe was gathering that experience
out of which the current habitual scheme of law and order has come, the right of property and
free contract was a complement and safeguard to that individual initiative and masterless equality
of men for which the spokesmen of the new era contended. That it is no longer so at every turn,
or even in the main, in later time, is in great part due to changes of the pecuniary order,
that have come on since then, and that seem not to have cast their shadow before.

In all good faith, and with none but inconsequential reservations, the material fortunes of
modern civilised men--together with much else--have so been placed on a pecuniary footing,
with little to safeguard them at any point except the inalienable right of pecuniary self-direction
and initiative, in an environment where virtually all the indispensable means of pecuniary
self-direction and initiative are in the hands of that contracted category of owners spoken
of above. A numerical minority--under ten percent of the population--constitutes a conclusive
pecuniary majority--over ninety percent of the means--under a system of law and order that
turns on the inalienable right of owners to dispose of the means in hand as may suit their
convenience and profit,--always barring recourse to illegal force or fraud. There is, however,
a very appreciable margin of legal recourse to force and of legally protected fraud available
in case of need. Of course the expedients here referred to as legally available force and fraud
in the defense of pecuniary rights and the pursuit of pecuniary gain are not force and fraud
de jure but only de facto. They are further, and well known, illustrations of how the ulterior
consequences of given institutional arrangements and given conventionalised principles (habits
of thought) of conduct may in time come to run at cross purposes with the initial purpose that
led to the acceptance of these institutions and to the confirmation and standardisation of
these habitual norms of conduct. For the time being, however, they are "fundamentally and eternally
right and good."

Being a pecuniary majority--what may be called a majority of the corporate stock--of the nation,
it is also fundamentally and eternally right and good that the pecuniary interests of the owners
of the material means of life should rule unabated in all those matters of public policy that
touch on the material fortunes of the community at large. Barring a slight and intermittent
mutter of discontent, this arrangement has also the cordial approval of popular sentiment in
these modern democratic nations. One need only recall the paramount importance which is popularly
attached to the maintenance and extension of the nation's trade--for the use of the investors--or
the perpetuation of a protective tariff--for the use of the protected business concerns--or,
again, the scrupulous regard with which such a body of public servants as the Interstate Commerce
Commission will safeguard the legitimate claim of the railway companies to a "reasonable" rate
of earnings on the capitalised value of the presumed earning-capacity of their property.

       *       *       *       *       *

Again, in view of the unaccustomed freedom with which it is here necessary to speak of these
delicate matters, it may be in place to disclaim all intention to criticise the established
arrangements on their merits as details of public policy. All that comes in question here,
touching these and the like features of the established law and order, is the bearing of all
this on the material fortunes of the common man under the current régime, as contrasted with
what he would reasonably have to look for under the projected régime of Imperial tutelage that
would come in, consequent upon this national surrender to Imperial dominion.

       *       *       *       *       *

In these democratic countries public policy is guided primarily by considerations of business
expediency, and the administration, as well as the legislative power, is in the hands of businessmen,
chosen avowedly on the ground of their businesslike principles and ability. There is no power
in such a community that can over-rule the exigencies of business, nor would popular sentiment
countenance any exercise of power that should traverse these exigencies, or that would act
to restrain trade or discourage the pursuit of gain. An apparent exception to the rule occurs
in wartime, when military exigencies may over-rule the current demands of business traffic;
but the exception is in great part only apparent, in that the warlike operations are undertaken
in whole or in part with a view to the protection or extension of business traffic.

National surveillance and regulation of business traffic in these countries hitherto, ever
since and in so far as the modern democratic order of things has taken effect, has uniformly
been of the nature of interference with trade and investment in behalf of the nation's mercantile
community at large, as seen in port and shipping regulations and in the consular service, or
in behalf of particular favored groups or classes of business concerns, as in protective tariffs
and subsidies. In all this national management of pecuniary affairs, under modern democratic
principles, the common man comes into the case only as raw material of business traffic,--as
consumer or as laborer. He is one of the industrial agencies by use of which the businessman
who employs him supplies himself with goods for the market, or he is one of the units of consumptive
demand that make up this market in which the business man sells his goods, and so "realises"
on his investment. He is, of course, free, under modern principles of the democratic order,
to deal or not to deal with this business community, whether as laborer or as consumer, or
as small-scale producer engaged in purveying materials or services on terms defined by the
community of business interests engaged on so large a scale as to count in their determination.
That is to say, he is free de jure to take or leave the terms offered. De facto he is only
free to take them--with inconsequential exceptions--the alternative being obsolescence by disuse,
not to choose a harsher name for a distasteful eventuality.

The general ground on which the business system, as it works under the over-ruling exigencies
of the so-called "big business," so defines the terms of life for the common man, who works
and buys, is the ground afforded by the principle of "charging what the traffic will bear;"
that is to say, fixing the terms of hiring, buying and selling at such a figure as will yield
the largest net return to the business concerns in whom, collectively or in severalty, the
discretion vests. Discretion in these premises does not vest in any business concern that does
not articulate with the system of "big business," or that does not dispose of resources sufficient
to make it a formidable member of the system. Whether these concerns act in severalty or by
collusion and conspiracy, in so defining the pecuniary terms of life for the community at large,
is substantially an idle question, so far as bears on the material interest of the common man.
The base-line is still what the traffic will bear, and it is still adhered to, so nearly as
the human infirmity of the discretionary captains of industry will admit, whether the due approximation
to this base-line is reached by a process of competitive bidding or by collusive advisement.
It may be worth while to take note of more than one point in qualification of it, chiefly to
avoid the appearance of having overlooked any of the material circumstances of the case. The
"system" of large business, working its material consequences through the system of large-scale
industry, but more particularly by way of the large-scale and wide-reaching business of trade
in the proper sense, draws into the net of its control all parts of the community and all its
inhabitants, in some degree of dependence. But there is always, hitherto, an appreciable fraction
of the inhabitants--as, e.g., outlying agricultural sections that are in a "backward" state--who
are by no means closely bound in the orderly system of business, or closely dependent on the
markets. They may be said to enjoy a degree of independence, by virtue of their foregoing as
much as may be of the advantages offered by modern industrial specialisation. So also there
are the minor and interstitial trades that are still carried on by handicraft methods; these,
too, are still somewhat loosely held in the fabric of the business system. There is one thing
and another in this way to be taken account of in any exhaustive survey, but the accounting
for them will after all amount to nothing better than a gleaning of remnants and partial exceptions,
such as will in no material degree derange the general proposition in hand.

