Mark stared at him; and he laughed aloud. "You're immense, boy," he applauded. "The cool nerve
of you...." His eyes warmed with frank admiration. "Joel, hark to this," he cried, and jerked
his head toward the captive Finch. "You've ripped the innards out of that mate of mine. I'll
give you the job. You're mate of the Nathan Ross and I'm proud to have you...."

"I am captain of the Nathan Ross," said Joel. "And you are my brother, and a--mutineer. Give
me the guns."

Mark threw up his hand angrily. "You'll not hear reason. Then--go below, and stay there. You...."

There are few men who can stand flat-footed and still hit a crushing blow; but Joel did just
this. When Mark began to speak, Joel's hands had been hanging limply at his sides. On Mark's
last word, Joel's right hand whipped up as smoothly as a whip snaps; and it smacked on Mark's
lean jaw with much the sound a whip makes. It struck just behind the point of the jaw, on the
left hand side; and Mark's head jerked back, and his knees sagged, and he tottered weakly forward
into Joel's very arms.

Joel's hands were at the other's belt, even as Mark fell. He brought out the revolvers, then
let Mark slip down to the deck; and he stepped over the twitching body of his brother, and
caught up the two rifles, and dropped them, with the revolvers, over the after rail.

Mark's splendid body had already begun to recover from the blow; he was struggling to sit up,
and he saw what Joel did, and cried aloud: "Don't be a fool, boy. Keep them.... Hell!" For
the weapons were gone. Joel turned, and looked down at him; and he said quietly:

"While I can help it, there'll be no blood shed on my ship."

Mark swept an arm toward the waist of the ship, and Joel looked and saw a growing knot of angry
men there. "See them, do you?" Mark demanded. "They're drunk for blood. It's out of your hands,
Joel. You've thrown your ace away. Now, boy--what will you do?"

The men began to surge aft, along the deck.

XVII

THE story of that battle upon the tumbling decks of the Nathan Ross was to be told and re-told
at many a gam upon the whaling grounds. It was such a story as strong men love; a story of
overwhelming odds, of epic combat, of splendid death where blood ran hot and strong....

There were a full score of men in the group that came aft toward Joel. And as they came, others,
running from the fo'c's'le and dropping from the rigging, joined them. Every man was drunk
with the vision of wealth that he had built upon Mark Shore's story. The thing had grown and
grown in the telling; it had fattened on the greed native in the men; and it was a monstrous
thing now, and one that would not be denied.... The men, as they moved aft, made grumbling
sounds with their half-caught breath; and these sounds blended into a roaring growl like the
growl of a beast.

To face these men stood Joel. For an instant, he was alone. Then, without word, old Aaron took
his stand beside his captain. Aaron held gripped in both hands an adze. Its edge was sharp
enough to slice hard wood like cheese.... And at Joel's other side, the cook. A round man,
with greasy traces of his craft upon his countenance. He carried a heavy cleaver. There is
an ancient feud between galley and fo'c's'le; and the men greeting the cook's coming with a
hungry cry of delight....

Joel glanced at these new allies, and saw their weapons. He took the adze from Aaron, the cleaver
from the other; and he turned and hurled them behind him, over the rail. And in the moment's
silence that followed on this action, he called to the men:

"Go back to your places."

They growled at him; they were wordless, but they knew the thing they desired. The cook complained
at Joel's elbow: "I could use that cleaver."

"I'll not have blood spilled," Joel told him. "If there's fighting, it will be with fists...."

And Mark touched Joel lightly on the shoulder, and took his place beside him. He was smiling,
a twisted smile above the swollen lump upon his jaw. He said lightly: "If it's fists, Joel--I
think I'm safest to fight beside you."

Joel looked up at him with a swift glance, and he brushed his hand across his eyes, and nodded.
"I counted on that, Mark--in the last, long run," he said. Mark gripped his arm and pressed
it; and in that moment the long, unspoken enmity between the brothers died forever. They faced
the men....

One howled like a wolf: "He's done us. Done us in."

And another: "They're going to hog it. Them two...."

The little sea of scowling, twisting faces moved, it surged forward.... The men charged, more
than a score, to overwhelm the four.

In the moment before, Joel had marked young Dick Morrell, at one side, twisted with indecision;
and in the instant when the men moved, he called: "With us, Mr. Morrell."

It was command, not question; and the boy answered with a shout and a blow.... On the flank
of the men, he swept toward them. And Joel's harpooner, and one of Asa Worthen's old men formed
a triumvirate that fought there....

They were thus seven against a score. But they were seven good men. And the score were a mob....

It was fists, at the first, as Joel had sworn. The first, charging line broke upon them; and
old Aaron was swept back, fighting like a cat, and crushed and bruised and left helpless in
an instant. The fat cook dodged into his galley, and snatched a knife and held the door there,
prodding the flanks of those who swirled past his stronghold. Joel dropped the first man who
came to him; and likewise Mark. But another twined 'round Joel's legs, and he could not kick
them free, and there was no time to stoop and tear the man away.

He and Mark kept back to back for a moment; but Mark was not a defensive fighter. He could
not stand still and wait attack; and when his second man fell, he leaped the twisting body
and charged into the clump of them. His black hair tossed, his eye was flaming; and his long
arms worked like pistons and like flails. He became the center of a group that writhed and
dissolved, and formed again. His head rose above them all.

The man who gripped Joel's legs, freed one hand and began to beat at Joel's body from below.
Joel could not endure the blows; he bent, and took a rain of buffets on his head and shoulders
while he caught the attacker by the throat, and lifted him up and flung him away. He staggered
free, set his back against the galley wall; and when he shifted to avoid another attack, he
found his place in the galley door. The fat cook crouched behind him, and Joel heard him shout:
"I'll watch your legs, Cap'n. Give 'em the iron, sir. Give 'em th' iron."

Once Joel, looking down, saw the cook's knife play like a flame between his knees.... None
would seek to pin him there.

The black harpooner fought his way across the deck to Joel's side. He left a trail of twisting
bodies behind him. And he was grinning with a huge delight. "Now, sar, we'll do 'em, sar,"
he screamed. The sweat poured down his black cheeks; and his mouth was cut and bleeding. His
shirt was torn away from one shoulder and arm....

"Good man," said Joel, between his panting blows. "Good man!"

Across the deck, one who had run forward for a handspike swept it down on young Dick Morrel's
brown head. Morrell dodged, but the blow cracked his shoulder and swept him to the deck. The
man who had fought beside him spraddled the prostrate body, and jerked an iron from the boat
on the davits at his back and held it like a lance, to keep all men at a distance. A sheath
knife sped, and twisted in the air, and struck him butt first above the eye, so that he fell
limply and lay still....

Mark Shore had been forced against the rail near where Jim Finch was pinned. Big Finch was
howling and weeping with fright; and a little man of the crew with a rat's mean soul who hated
Finch had found his hour. He was leaping about the mate, lashing him mercilessly with a heavy
end of rope; and Finch screamed and twisted beneath the blows.

So swiftly had the tumult of the battle arisen that all these things had come to pass before
the harpooners asleep in the steerage could wake and reach the deck. When they climbed the
ladder, and looked about them, they saw Morrell and his ally prostrate at one side, Joel and
the cook holding the galley door against a half dozen men; and big Mark's towering head amidst
a knot of half a dozen more. And one of the harpooners backed away toward the waist of the
ship, watchful and wary, taking no part in the affair.

But the other ... He was a Cape Verder, black blood crossed with Spanish; and Mark Shore had
tied him to a davit, once upon a time, and lashed him till he bled, for faults committed. He
saw Mark now, and his eyes shone greedily.

This man crouched, and crossed to a boat--his own--and chose his own harpoon. He twisted off
the wooden sheath that covered the point, and flung it across the deck; and he poised the heavy
iron in his hands, and started slowly toward Mark, moving on tiptoe, lightly as a cat.

Mark saw him coming; and the big man shouted joyfully: "Why, Silva! Come, you...."

He flung aside the men encircling him. One among them held the handspike with which he had
struck down Morrell; and Mark smote this man in the body, and when he doubled, wrenched the
great club from his hands. He swung this, leaped to meet the harpooner.

They came together in mid-deck. The great handspike whistled through the air, and down. An
egg-shell crunched beneath a heel.... Silva dropped.

Mark stood for an instant above him; and in that instant, every man saw the harpoon which Silva
had driven home. Its heavy shaft hung, dragging on the deck; it hung from Mark's breast, high
in the right shoulder; and the point stood out six inches behind his shoulder blade. It seemed
to drag at him; he bent slowly beneath its weight, and drooped, and lay at last across the
body of the man whose skull the handspike had crushed.

There were, at that moment, about a dozen of the men still on their feet; but in the instant
of their paralyzed dismay, two things struck them; two furies ... Dick Morrell, tottering on
unsteady feet, brandishing a razor-tipped lance full ten feet long. He came upon the men from
the flank, shouting; and Joel, when he saw his brother fall, left his shelter in the galley
door and swept upon them. The fat cook, with the knife, fought nobly at his side.

The men broke; they fled headlong, forward; and Joel and Morrell and the cook pursued them,
through the waist, past the trypots, till they tumbled down the fo'c's'le scuttle and huddled
in their bunks and howled....

A dozen limp bodies sprawled upon the deck, bodies of moaning men with heads that would ache
and pound for days.... Joel left Morrell to guard the fo'c's'le, and went back among them,
going swiftly from man to man....

Silva was dead. The others would not die--save only Mark. The iron had pierced his chest, had
ripped a lung....

XVIII

He died that night, smiling to the last. He was able to speak, now and then, before the end;
and Joel and Priss were near him, at his side, soothing him, listening....

He asked Joel, once: "Shall I tell you--where--pearls..."

Joel shook his head. "I do not want them," he said. "They have enough blood to turn them crimson.
Let them lie."

And Mark smiled, and nodded faintly. "Right, boy. Let them lie...." And his eyes shone up at
them; and he whispered presently: "That was--a fight to tell about, Joel...."

In those hours beside Mark, Priss completed the transition from girl to woman. She was very
sober, and quiet; but she did not weep, and she answered Mark's smiles. And Mark, watching
her, seemed to remember something, toward the last. Joel saw his eyes beckon; and he bent above
his brother, and Mark whispered weakly:

"Treasure--Priss, Joel. She's--worth all.... Kissed her, but she fought me...."

Joel gripped his brother's hand. "I knew there was no--harm in you--or in her," he said. "Don't
trouble, Mark...."

When old Aaron had stitched the canvas shroud, they laid Mark on the cutting stage; and Joel
read over him from the Book, while the men stood silent by. Chastened men, heads bandaged,
arms in slings ... Big Jim Finch at one side, shamed of face. Varde, sullen as ever, but with
hopelessness writ large upon him. Morrell, and old Hooper....

Joel finished, and he closed the Book. "Unto the deep...." The cutting stage tilted, and the
wave leaped and caught its burden and bore it softly down.... The sun was shining, the sea
danced, the wind was warm on fair Priscilla's cheek....

And as though, the brief, dramatic chapter being ended, another must at once begin, the masthead
man presently called down to Joel the long, droning hail:

"Ah-h-h-h! Blow-w-w-w-w!"

And he flung his arm toward where a misty spout sparkled in the sun a mile or two away. Minutes
later, the boats took water; and the Nathan Ross was about her business again.

                    *       *       *       *       *

Joel wrote in the log that night, with Priscilla beside him, her fingers in his hair. Priscilla
had been very humble, till Joel took her in his arms and comforted her....

He set down the ship's position; he recorded their capture, that day, of a great bull cachalot;
and then:

"... This day Mark Shore was buried at sea. He died late last night, from wounds received when
he fought valiantly to put down the mutiny of the crew. Fourth brother of the House of Shore...."

And below, the ancient and enduring epitaph:

                   "'All the brothers were valiant.'"

Priscilla, reading over his shoulder, pointed to this line and whispered sorrowfully: "But
I--called you coward, Joel." He looked up at her, and smiled a little. "I know better now,"
she said. "So--give me the pen ... And close your eyes...."

He heard the scratch of steel on paper; and when he opened his eyes again he saw that Priscilla
had underscored, with three deep strokes, the first word of that honorable line.

PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA