And now that my temper is up, I may as well go on and abuse every body I can think of.  They
have a grand mausoleum in Florence, which they built to bury our Lord and Saviour and the Medici
family in.  It sounds blasphemous, but it is true, and here they act blasphemy.  The dead and
damned Medicis who cruelly tyrannized over Florence and were her curse for over two hundred
years, are salted away in a circle of costly vaults, and in their midst the Holy Sepulchre
was to have been set up.  The expedition sent to Jerusalem to seize it got into trouble and
could not accomplish the burglary, and so the centre of the mausoleum is vacant now.  They
say the entire mausoleum was intended for the Holy Sepulchre, and was only turned into a family
burying place after the Jerusalem expedition failed--but you will excuse me.  Some of those
Medicis would have smuggled themselves in sure.--What they had not the effrontery to do, was
not worth doing.  Why, they had their trivial, forgotten exploits on land and sea pictured
out in grand frescoes (as did also the ancient Doges of Venice) with the Saviour and the Virgin
throwing bouquets to them out of the clouds, and the Deity himself applauding from his throne
in Heaven!  And who painted these things?  Why, Titian, Tintoretto, Paul Veronese, Raphael--none
other than the world's idols, the "old masters."

Andrea del Sarto glorified his princes in pictures that must save them for ever from the oblivion
they merited, and they let him starve.  Served him right.  Raphael pictured such infernal villains
as Catherine and Marie de Medicis seated in heaven and conversing familiarly with the Virgin
Mary and the angels, (to say nothing of higher personages,) and yet my friends abuse me because
I am a little prejudiced against the old masters--because I fail sometimes to see the beauty
that is in their productions.  I can not help but see it, now and then, but I keep on protesting
against the groveling spirit that could persuade those masters to prostitute their noble talents
to the adulation of such monsters as the French, Venetian and Florentine Princes of two and
three hundred years ago, all the same.

I am told that the old masters had to do these shameful things for bread, the princes and potentates
being the only patrons of art.  If a grandly gifted man may drag his pride and his manhood
in the dirt for bread rather than starve with the nobility that is in him untainted, the excuse
is a valid one.  It would excuse theft in Washingtons and Wellingtons, and unchastity in women
as well.

But somehow, I can not keep that Medici mausoleum out of my memory.  It is as large as a church;
its pavement is rich enough for the pavement of a King's palace; its great dome is gorgeous
with frescoes; its walls are made of--what?  Marble?--plaster?--wood?--paper?  No.  Red porphyry
--verde antique--jasper--oriental agate--alabaster--mother-of-pearl --chalcedony--red coral--lapis
lazuli!  All the vast walls are made wholly of these precious stones, worked in, and in and
in together in elaborate pattern s and figures, and polished till they glow like great mirrors
with the pictured splendors reflected from the dome overhead.  And before a statue of one of
those dead Medicis reposes a crown that blazes with diamonds and emeralds enough to buy a ship-of-the-line,
almost.  These are the things the Government has its evil eye upon, and a happy thing it will
be for Italy when they melt away in the public treasury.

And now----.  However, another beggar approaches.  I will go out and destroy him, and then
come back and write another chapter of vituperation.

Having eaten the friendless orphan--having driven away his comrades --having grown calm and
reflective at length--I now feel in a kindlier mood.  I feel that after talking so freely about
the priests and the churches, justice demands that if I know any thing good about either I
ought to say it.  I have heard of many things that redound to the credit of the priesthood,
but the most notable matter that occurs to me now is the devotion one of the mendicant orders
showed during the prevalence of the cholera last year.  I speak of the Dominican friars--men
who wear a coarse, heavy brown robe and a cowl, in this hot climate, and go barefoot.  They
live on alms altogether, I believe.  They must unquestionably love their religion, to suffer
so much for it.  When the cholera was raging in Naples; when the people were dying by hundreds
and hundreds every day; when every concern for the public welfare was swallowed up in selfish
private interest, and every citizen made the taking care of himself his sole object, these
men banded themselves together and went about nursing the sick and burying the dead.  Their
noble efforts cost many of them their lives.  They laid them down cheerfully, and well they
might.  Creeds mathematically precise, and hair-splitting niceties of doctrine, are absolutely
necessary for the salvation of some kinds of souls, but surely the charity, the purity, the
unselfishness that are in the hearts of men like these would save their souls though they were
bankrupt in the true religion--which is ours.

One of these fat bare-footed rascals came here to Civita Vecchia with us in the little French
steamer.  There were only half a dozen of us in the cabin.  He belonged in the steerage.  He
was the life of the ship, the bloody-minded son of the Inquisition!  He and the leader of the
marine band of a French man-of-war played on the piano and sang opera turn about; they sang
duets together; they rigged impromptu theatrical costumes and gave us extravagant farces and
pantomimes.  We got along first-rate with the friar, and were excessively conversational, albeit
he could not understand what we said, and certainly he never uttered a word that we could guess
the meaning of.

This Civita Vecchia is the finest nest of dirt, vermin and ignorance we have found yet, except
that African perdition they call Tangier, which is just like it.  The people here live in alleys
two yards wide, which have a smell about them which is peculiar but not entertaining.  It is
well the alleys are not wider, because they hold as much smell now as a person can stand, and
of course, if they were wider they would hold more, and then the people would die.  These alleys
are paved with stone, and carpeted with deceased cats, and decayed rags, and decomposed vegetable-tops,
and remnants of old boots, all soaked with dish-water, and the people sit around on stools
and enjoy it.  They are indolent, as a general thing, and yet have few pastimes.  They work
two or three hours at a time, but not hard, and then they knock off and catch flies. This does
not require any talent, because they only have to grab--if they do not get the one they are
after, they get another.  It is all the same to them.  They have no partialities.  Whichever
one they get is the one they want.

They have other kinds of insects, but it does not make them arrogant. They are very quiet,
unpretending people.  They have more of these kind of things than other communities, but they
do not boast.

They are very uncleanly--these people--in face, in person and dress. When they see any body
with a clean shirt on, it arouses their scorn. The women wash clothes, half the day, at the
public tanks in the streets, but they are probably somebody else's.  Or may be they keep one
set to wear and another to wash; because they never put on any that have ever been washed.
When they get done washing, they sit in the alleys and nurse their cubs.  They nurse one ash-cat
at a time, and the others scratch their backs against the door-post and are happy.

All this country belongs to the Papal States.  They do not appear to have any schools here,
and only one billiard table.  Their education is at a very low stage.  One portion of the men
go into the military, another into the priesthood, and the rest into the shoe-making business.

They keep up the passport system here, but so they do in Turkey.  This shows that the Papal
States are as far advanced as Turkey.  This fact will be alone sufficient to silence the tongues
of malignant calumniators.  I had to get my passport vised for Rome in Florence, and then they
would not let me come ashore here until a policeman had examined it on the wharf and sent me
a permit.  They did not even dare to let me take my passport in my hands for twelve hours,
I looked so formidable.  They judged it best to let me cool down.  They thought I wanted to
take the town, likely.  Little did they know me.  I wouldn't have it.  They examined my baggage
at the depot.  They took one of my ablest jokes and read it over carefully twice and then read
it backwards. But it was too deep for them.  They passed it around, and every body speculated
on it awhile, but it mastered them all.

It was no common joke.  At length a veteran officer spelled it over deliberately and shook
his head three or four times and said that in his opinion it was seditious.  That was the first
time I felt alarmed.  I immediately said I would explain the document, and they crowded around.
And so I explained and explained and explained, and they took notes of all I said, but the
more I explained the more they could not understand it, and when they desisted at last, I could
not even understand it myself.  They said they believed it was an incendiary document, leveled
at the government.  I declared solemnly that it was not, but they only shook their heads and
would not be satisfied.  Then they consulted a good while; and finally they confiscated it.
I was very sorry for this, because I had worked a long time on that joke, and took a good deal
of pride in it, and now I suppose I shall never see it any more.  I suppose it will be sent
up and filed away among the criminal archives of Rome, and will always be regarded as a mysterious
infernal machine which would have blown up like a mine and scattered the good Pope all around,
but for a miraculous providential interference.  And I suppose that all the time I am in Rome
the police will dog me about from place to place because they think I am a dangerous character.

It is fearfully hot in Civita Vecchia.  The streets are made very narrow and the houses built
very solid and heavy and high, as a protection against the heat.  This is the first Italian
town I have seen which does not appear to have a patron saint.  I suppose no saint but the
one that went up in the chariot of fire could stand the climate.

There is nothing here to see.  They have not even a cathedral, with eleven tons of solid silver
archbishops in the back room; and they do not show you any moldy buildings that are seven thousand
years old; nor any smoke-dried old fire-screens which are chef d'oeuvres of Reubens or Simpson,
or Titian or Ferguson, or any of those parties; and they haven't any bottled fragments of saints,
and not even a nail from the true cross. We are going to Rome.  There is nothing to see here.

CHAPTER XXVI.

