All through the evening, however, in spite of the pleasant entertainment, Lady Anne, who was
very sympathetic, could not help but think many times of poor little Gabriel, and how cold
and hungry and miserable he must be! She had been much struck, too, with the beautiful way
in which he had written out and ornamented his little prayer, for she was a good judge of such
things; and, as she thought about it, she determined some day to see the lad herself. Meantime
she was very anxious to help him as soon as possible. Indeed, she felt much happier when the
next morning came, and Count Henri set out for Paris; for then she knew that her letter and
Gabriel's little written page were on their way to King Louis.

In due time, Count Henri arrived safely at the king's palace, and delivered the packet from
Lady Anne. And when King Louis broke the wax seal, and read the letter and Gabriel's little
prayer, he, too, was deeply touched. Lady Anne's letter explained to him about finding the
loose page in the beautiful book he had sent her, and asked that he would see to it that Count
Pierre set the boy's father free.

This King Louis at once determined to do, for he was a just and kind-hearted monarch, and during
his reign did much to lighten the taxes and oppression of the peasant-folk; and, moreover,
in this trouble of Gabriel's father, he now took an especial interest, as it gave him great
pleasure to grant any wish of the Lady Anne, whom he loved deeply.

So that very day he sent for a trusty messenger, and after explaining things to him, directed
him to set out as soon as possible for St. Martin's Abbey, and there to seek out Brother Stephen
and inquire about the little peasant boy, Gabriel Viaud. And then, if he found everything to
be true that Gabriel had said in his prayer, he was to act according to further orders which
King Louis gave him.

CHAPTER IX.

THE KING'S MESSENGER

NOW while all these things had been going on, poor Gabriel had been growing more wretchedly
unhappy day by day. His people had become poorer and poorer, and the long, cold winter was
upon them. They had almost given up hope of the release of peasant Viaud from prison, and did
not know where they could get bread or fire to keep them alive through the bitter cold. Sometimes
Gabriel thought with despair of how much he had hoped from his little prayer! For he was sure,
by this time, that God was angry with him for daring to put it in the beautiful book.

And to add the last touch to his distress, he had been obliged to give up his work and lessons
at the Abbey; for Brother Stephen had been ill for a time, and unable to paint, and all the
other monks had colour-grinders of their own. So Gabriel, who could not afford to be idle even
for a few days, had been forced to seek employment elsewhere.

The only work he could find was with a leather dresser in the village of St. Martin's, and
though it was very hard and distasteful to him, he felt that he must keep at it, as he could
thus earn a few pennies more each day than he could as colour-grinder at the Abbey. And yet,
with all his hard toil, the little sum he brought home at night was far from enough to keep
them all from want, to say nothing of paying the tax which still hung over them; and so every
day they became more hopeless and discouraged.

Indeed, in those times, when a peasant family fell under the displeasure of their noble lord,
it was a bitter misfortune, for there were few places to which they might turn for help.

And it seemed to Gabriel especially hard to bear all their troubles in the gracious Christmas
season; for it was now past the middle of December. Always before they had had enough for their
happy little Christmas feast, and some to spare. They had always had their sheaf of wheat put
by for the birds; and for two seasons past Gabriel's father had let him climb up the tall ladder
and fasten the holiday sheaf, bound with its garland of greens, to the roof of the little peaked
and gabled dovecote that stood on top of a carved pole in the centre of the farmyard. For every
Norman peasant always wishes the birds, too, to be happy at the joyous Christmas-tide.

And always, every Christmas eve, when Gabriel and his little brothers and sister had gone to
bed, they had set their wooden shoes in a row on the hearthstone; and then in the morning when
they wakened up, they always found that the blessed Christ-child had been there in the night,
and filled all the little shoes with red apples and nuts.

But this Christmas-time everything was so sad and changed, they were sure even the Christ-child
would forget them. And, day by day, the little supply of coarse meal for their black bread
grew smaller and smaller, and the snow became deeper, and the wintry winds blew more cold and
cruelly.

Meantime, King Louis's messenger was travelling as fast as he could, and three days before
Christmas he arrived at St. Martin's Abbey. The Abbot was greatly surprised to see him, and
still more so when he asked if he might speak privately with Brother Stephen. This the Abbot
granted, though he was very anxious to know the messenger's errand; for he could think of no
reason for it, unless there had been something wrong with King Louis's book. So he was quite
uneasy as he saw the messenger enter Brother Stephen's cell and close the door.

Brother Stephen, too, was at first much surprised when his visitor told him he had come from
King Louis to inquire about a peasant boy by the name of Gabriel Viaud; though in a moment
it flashed through his mind that Gabriel's prayer had found its way to the palace, and that
the answer was coming.

He said nothing of this, however, but when the messenger asked if he had had such a boy for
colour-grinder, he eagerly answered:

"Yes, and there lives no manlier and sweeter-spirited lad in all France!"

"Is it true," continued the messenger, "that Count Pierre de Bouchage hath imprisoned his father
for failure to pay a tax, and that the family are now in sore distress?"

"Yes, that also is true," replied the monk very sadly. And then he said beseechingly: "But
surely King Louis will help them? Surely our gracious sovereign will not allow such injustice
and cruelty?"

Here the messenger answered:

"Nay, our sovereign is indeed a generous monarch! Else had he not been touched by the little
prayer which the peasant lad placed in the book thou madest for the Lady Anne. Though I dare
say thou knewest naught of it" (here Brother Stephen smiled gently, but said nothing), "yet
so the lad did. And 'twas because of that scrap of parchment falling under the eyes of King
Louis, that I have journeyed all the way from Paris. And," he added, as he remembered the heavy
snow through which he had ridden, "it takes a stout heart and a stouter horse to brave thy
Norman roads in December!"

Then he asked Brother Stephen a great many more questions, and inquired what road to take in
order to find Count Pierre's castle, and also the Viaud cottage. And then when he had satisfied
himself about all these matters, he went back to the great hall of the Abbey, where the Abbot
was slowly pacing the floor, telling his beads as he walked.

The Abbot, though very curious as to the reason of the messenger's visit, asked him no questions
other than if the book for Lady Anne had been entirely satisfactory; and he felt relieved when
the messenger assured him that so far as he knew both the king and Lady Anne had been greatly
delighted with it. Then, after talking a little while about Brother Stephen's artistic work,
the messenger briefly explained to the Abbot his errand, and told him that King Louis had ordered
him to make his inquiries about Gabriel as quietly as possible.

