When George Ealer saw the chimneys plunging aloft in front of him, he knew what the matter
was; so he muffled his face in the lapels of his coat, and pressed both hands there tightly
to keep this protection in its place so that no steam could get to his nose or mouth. He had
ample time to attend to these details while he was going up and returning.  He presently landed
on top of the unexploded boilers, forty feet below the former pilot-house, accompanied by his
wheel and a rain of other stuff, and enveloped in a cloud of scalding steam. All of the many
who breathed that steam, died; none escaped. But Ealer breathed none of it.  He made his way
to the free air as quickly as he could; and when the steam cleared away he returned and climbed
up on the boilers again, and patiently hunted out each and every one of his chessmen and the
several joints of his flute.

By this time the fire was beginning to threaten.  Shrieks and groans filled the air.  A great
many persons had been scalded, a great many crippled; the explosion had driven an iron crowbar
through one man's body--I think they said he was a priest. He did not die at once, and his
sufferings were very dreadful. A young French naval cadet, of fifteen, son of a French admiral,
was fearfully scalded, but bore his tortures manfully. Both mates were badly scalded, but they
stood to their posts, nevertheless.  They drew the wood-boat aft, and they and the captain
fought back the frantic herd of frightened immigrants till the wounded could be brought there
and placed in safety first.

When Mr. Wood and Henry fell in the water, they struck out for shore, which was only a few
hundred yards away; but Henry presently said he believed he was not hurt (what an unaccountable
error!), and therefore would swim back to the boat and help save the wounded. So they parted,
and Henry returned.

By this time the fire was making fierce headway, and several persons who were imprisoned under
the ruins were begging piteously for help.  All efforts to conquer the fire proved fruitless;
so the buckets were presently thrown aside and the officers fell-to with axes and tried to
cut the prisoners out. A striker was one of the captives; he said he was not injured, but could
not free himself; and when he saw that the fire was likely to drive away the workers, he begged
that some one would shoot him, and thus save him from the more dreadful death. The fire did
drive the axmen away, and they had to listen, helpless, to this poor fellow's supplications
till the flames ended his miseries.

The fire drove all into the wood-flat that could be accommodated there; it was cut adrift,
then, and it and the burning steamer floated down the river toward Ship Island.  They moored
the flat at the head of the island, and there, unsheltered from the blazing sun, the half-naked
occupants had to remain, without food or stimulants, or help for their hurts, during the rest
of the day.  A steamer came along, finally, and carried the unfortunates to Memphis, and there
the most lavish assistance was at once forthcoming. By this time Henry was insensible. The
physicians examined his injuries and saw that they were fatal, and naturally turned their main
attention to patients who could be saved.

