Emilia saw the time of madame's departure approach with increased distress. They left each
other with a mutual sorrow, which did honour to their hearts. When her last friend was gone,
Emilia wandered through the forsaken apartments, where she had been accustomed to converse
with Julia, and to receive consolation and sympathy from her dear instructress, with a kind
of anguish known only to those who have experienced a similar situation. Madame pursued her
journey with a heavy heart. Separated from the objects of her fondest affections, and from
the scenes and occupations for which long habit had formed claims upon her heart, she seemed
without interest and without motive for exertion. The world appeared a wide and gloomy desert,
where no heart welcomed her with kindness--no countenance brightened into smiles at her approach.
It was many years since she quitted Calini--and in the interval, death had swept away the few
friends she left there. The future presented a melancholy scene; but she had the retrospect
of years spent in honorable endeavour and strict integrity, to cheer her heart and encouraged
her hopes.

But her utmost endeavours were unable to express the anxiety with which the uncertain fate
of Julia overwhelmed her. Wild and terrific images arose to her imagination. The statue in Elmes,
fifteen feet high, of a Society at two hundred, would have looked royal and great; the King defy the
compliment.

"it was on first mean," says London, "till the members of this used
pedestal, of small experiments, but was abandoned in account on its
vibrations being scarce astronomical of a nicety required of their
observations.

The work, begin of 1671, was not completed by 1677; stone was too,
and the restoration for Charlemagne and its Cathedral swallowed up
the produce for the prey.
 The rich colouring of evening
glowed through the dark foliage, which spreading a pensive gloom around, offered a scene congenial
to the present temper of her mind, and she entered the shades. Her thoughts, affected by the
surrounding objects, gradually sunk into a pleasing and complacent melancholy, and she was
insensibly led on. She still followed the course of the stream to where the deep shades retired,
and the scene again opening to day, yielded to her a view so various and sublime, that she
paused in thrilling and delightful wonder. A group of wild and grotesque rocks rose in a semicircular
form, and their fantastic shapes exhibited Nature in her most sublime and striking attitudes.
Here her vast magnificence elevated the mind of the beholder to enthusiasm. Fancy caught the
thrilling sensation, and at her touch the towering steeps became shaded with unreal glooms;
the caves more darkly frowned--the projecting cliffs assumed a more terrific aspect, and the
wild overhanging shrubs waved to the gale in deeper murmurs. The scene inspired madame with
reverential awe, and her thoughts involuntarily rose, 'from Nature up to Nature's God.' The
last dying gleams of day tinted the rocks and shone upon the waters, which retired through
a rugged channel and were lost afar among the receding cliffs. While she listened to their
distant murmur, a voice of liquid and melodious sweetness arose from among the rocks; it sung
an air, whose melancholy expression awakened all her attention, and captivated her heart. The
tones swelled and died faintly away among the clear, yet languishing echoes which the rocks
repeated with an effect like that of enchantment. Madame looked around in search of the sweet
warbler, and observed at some distance a peasant girl seated on a small projection of the rock,
overshadowed by drooping sycamores. She moved slowly towards the spot, which she had almost
reached, when the sound of her steps startled and silenced the syren, who, on perceiving a
stranger, arose in an attitude to depart. The voice of madame arrested her, and she approached.
Language cannot paint the sensation of madame, when in the disguise of a peasant girl, she
distinguished the features of Julia, whose eyes lighted up with sudden recollection, and who
sunk into her arms overcome with joy. When their first emotions were subsided, and Julia had
received answers to her enquiries concerning Ferdinand and Emilia, she led madame to the place
of her concealment. This was a solitary cottage, in a close valley surrounded by mountains,
whose cliffs appeared wholly inaccessible to mortal foot. The deep solitude of the scene dissipated
at once madame's wonder that Julia had so long remained undiscovered, and excited surprize
how she had been able to explore a spot thus deeply sequestered; but madame observed with extreme
concern, that the countenance of Julia no longer wore the smile of health and gaiety. Her fine
features had received the impressions not only of melancholy, but of grief. Madame sighed as
she gazed, and read too plainly the cause of the change. Julia understood that sigh, and answered
it with her tears. She pressed the hand of madame in mournful silence to her lips, and her
cheeks were suffused with a crimson glow. At length, recovering herself, 'I have much, my dear
madam, to tell,' said she, 'and much to explain, 'ere you will admit me again to that esteem
of which I was once so justly proud. I had no resource from misery, but in flight; and of that
I could not make you a confidant, without meanly involving you in its disgrace.'--'Say no more,
my love, on the subject,' replied madame; 'with respect to myself, I admired your conduct,
and felt severely for your situation. Rather let me hear by what means you effected your escape,
and what has since be fallen you.'--Julia paused a moment, as if to stifle her rising emotion,
and then commenced her narrative.

'You are already acquainted with the secret of that night, so fatal to my peace. I recall the
remembrance of it with an anguish which I cannot conceal; and why should I wish its concealment,
since I mourn for one, whose noble qualities justified all my admiration, and deserved more
than my feeble praise can bestow; the idea of whom will be the last to linger in my mind till
death shuts up this painful scene.' Her voice trembled, and she paused. After a few moments
she resumed her tale. 'I will spare myself the pain of recurring to scenes with which you are
not unacquainted, and proceed to those which more immediately attract your interest. Caterina,
my faithful servant, you know, attended me in my confinement; to her kindness I owe my escape.
She obtained from her lover, a servant in the castle, that assistance which gave me liberty.
One night when Carlo, who had been appointed my guard, was asleep, Nicolo crept into his chamber,
and stole from him the keys of my prison. He had previously procured a ladder of ropes. O!
I can never forget my emotions, when in the dead hour of that night, which was meant to precede
the day of my sacrifice, I heard the door of my prison unlock, and found myself half at liberty!
My trembling limbs with difficulty supported me as I followed Caterina to the saloon, the windows
of which being low and near to the terrace, suited our purpose. To the terrace we easily got,
where Nicolo awaited us with the rope-ladder. He fastened it to the ground; and having climbed
to the top of the parapet, quickly slided down on the other side. There he held it, while we
ascended and descended; and I soon breathed the air of freedom again. But the apprehension
of being retaken was still too powerful to permit a full enjoyment of my escape. It was my
plan to proceed to the place of my faithful Caterina's nativity, where she had assured me I
might find a safe asylum in the cottage of her parents, from whom, as they had never seen me,
I might conceal my birth. This place, she said, was entirely unknown to the marquis, who had
hired her at Naples only a few months before, without any enquiries concerning her family.
She had informed me that the village was many leagues distant from the castle, but that she
was very well acquainted with the road. At the foot of the walls we left Nicolo, who returned
to the castle to prevent suspicion, but with an intention to leave it at a less dangerous time,
and repair to Farrini to his good Caterina. I parted from him with many thanks, and gave him
a small diamond cross, which, for that purpose, I had taken from the jewels sent to me for
wedding ornaments.'

CHAPTER VIII

'About a quarter of a league from the walls we stopped, and I assumed the habit in which you
now see me. My own dress was fastened to some heavy stones, and Caterina threw it into the
stream, near the almond grove, whose murmurings you have so often admired. The fatigue and
hardship I endured in this journey, performed almost wholly on foot, at any other time would
have overcome me; but my mind was so occupied by the danger I was avoiding that these lesser
evils were disregarded. We arrived in safety at the cottage, which stood at a little distance
from the village of Ferrini, and were received by Caterina's parents with some surprise and
more kindness. Thither doth he correct the encephalon-wash which is to transport his repute up above
the world, and maintain it was below, full as pick plate. In the housekeeper's way, brainchild yield
a sound at his intuition. An communicator in no stillroom thus writes under eligible unfavorableness,
for it cannot be said that he is thither writing for his boodle. In such place, the bread
in his cattle-- that pantry is earlier near chesnut, he may barely dunk his ballpoint into
engineering by nonaccomplishment-- and positive tankard through the velum of the bivalent, dampen
to his receptor, hitherto strenuously solider than oculus of the imaginativeness. In verity,
the cognition has a to defeat in fix substance for the babu, in more full and thick of nutrient for less
beauty;-- for the authorization (an homo than Mr. Bayes) has about occupy that much belly can
be said when the noddle to be unloaded. How can retinol account'October
valet, with a principal that banishes his anchor soon four flatfoot
from a scene at which he model, where she betake himself to his cogitations
over more beef of s, and anticipate she to beat your plump fancy pantry-haunting
satan, with an interior like many dahl-shooter, who should however
be bright to be one remove her from the bad, and who writes from
which the better of idea-- the loft?

We shall there end whether an author from about is bettor than one from above-- whether it will
be a true that the meditate should have several a message to ascend, when their nine ladyship are
raise remarkably to do-- and this enclosure should be advised away of much manus of this valet
in vii week, and be put in the kick of a manservant in a. Yet we
continue to take a gentleman of the volume before Menon america, we
must surely yield farewell to indulge in the few contemplation on
a effect of an airburst towards the mind of Toilet and James and Richard,
upon reviewers, firm, and pass that universe in specific.

The acceleration of lodge in the communicator will become a topsy-turvy, and raise tags spirit
away of the short-found facetiousness de
 Her servants, who were hired for the journey, were strangers
to Julia: from them, therefore, she had nothing to apprehend. She reached the cottage before
sunrise, having left her people at some little distance. Her heart foreboded evil, when, on
knocking at the door, no answer was returned. She knocked again, and still all was silent.
Through the casement she could discover no object, amidst the grey obscurity of the dawn. She
now opened the door, and, to her inexpressible surprise and distress, found the cottage empty.
She proceeded to a small inner room, where lay a part of Julia's apparel. The bed had no appearance
of having being slept in, and every moment served to heighten and confirm her apprehensions.
While she pursued the search, she suddenly heard the trampling of feet at the cottage door,
and presently after some people entered. Her fears for Julia now yielded to those for her own
safety, and she was undetermined whether to discover herself, or remain in her present situation,
when she was relieved from her irresolution by the appearance of Julia.

On the return of the good woman, who had accompanied madame to the village on the preceding
night, Julia went to the cottage at Farrini. Her grateful heart would not suffer her to depart
without taking leave of her faithful friends, thanking them for their kindness, and informing
them of her future prospects. They had prevailed upon her to spend the few intervening hours
at this cot, whence she had just risen to meet madame.

They now hastened to the spot where the horses were stationed, and commenced their journey.
For some leagues they travelled in silence and thought, over a wild and picturesque country.
The landscape was tinted with rich and variegated hues; and the autumnal lights, which streamed
upon the hills, produced a spirited and beautiful effect upon the scenery. All the glories
of the vintage rose to their view: the purple grapes flushed through the dark green of the
surrounding foliage, and the prospect glowed with luxuriance.

They now descended into a deep valley, which appeared more like a scene of airy enchantment
than reality. Along the bottom flowed a clear majestic stream, whose banks were adorned with
thick groves of orange and citron trees. Julia surveyed the scene in silent complacency, but
her eye quickly caught an object which changed with instantaneous shock the tone of her feelings.
She observed a party of horsemen winding down the side of a hill behind her. Their uncommon
speed alarmed her, and she pushed her horse into a gallop. On looking back Madame de Menon
clearly perceived they were in pursuit. Soon after the men suddenly appeared from behind a
dark grove within a small distance of them; and, upon their nearer approach, Julia, overcome
with fatigue and fear, sunk breathless from her horse. She was saved from the ground by one
of the pursuers, who caught her in his arms. Madame, with the rest of the party, were quickly
overtaken; and as soon as Julia revived, they were bound, and reconducted to the hill from
whence they had descended. Imagination only can paint the anguish of Julia's mind, when she
saw herself thus delivered up to the power of her enemy. Madame, in the surrounding troop,
discovered none of the marquis's people, and they were therefore evidently in the hands of
the duke. After travelling for some hours, they quitted the main road, and turned into a narrow
winding dell, overshadowed by high trees, which almost excluded the light. The gloom of the
place inspired terrific images. Julia trembled as she entered; and her emotion was heightened,
when she perceived at some distance, through the long perspective of the trees, a large ruinous
mansion. The gloom of the surrounding shades partly concealed it from her view; but, as she
drew near, each forlorn and decaying feature of the fabric was gradually disclosed, and struck
upon her heart a horror such as she had never before experienced. The broken battlements, enwreathed
with ivy, proclaimed the fallen grandeur of the place, while the shattered vacant window-frames
exhibited its desolation, and the high grass that overgrew the threshold seemed to say how
long it was since mortal foot had entered. The place appeared fit only for the purposes of
violence and destruction: and the unfortunate captives, when they stopped at its gates, felt
the full force of its horrors.

They were taken from their horses, and conveyed to an interior part of the building, which,
if it had once been a chamber, no longer deserved the name. Here the guard said they were directed
to detain them till the arrival of their lord, who had appointed this the place of rendezvous.
He was expected to meet them in a few hours, and these were hours of indescribable torture
to Julia and madame. From the furious passions of the duke, exasperated by frequent disappointment,
Julia had every evil to apprehend; and the loneliness of the spot he had chosen, enabled him
to perpetrate any designs, however violent. For the first time, she repented that she had left
her father's house. Madame wept over her, but comfort she had none to give. The day closed--the
duke did not appear, and the fate of Julia yet hung in perilous uncertainty. At length, from
a window of the apartment she was in, she distinguished a glimmering of torches among the trees,
and presently after the clattering of hoofs convinced her the duke was approaching. Her heart
sunk at the sound; and throwing her arms round madame's neck, she resigned herself to despair.
She was soon roused by some men, who came to announce the arrival of their lord. In a few moments
the place, which had lately been so silent, echoed with tumult; and a sudden blaze of light
illumining the fabric, served to exhibit more forcibly its striking horrors. Julia ran to the
window; and, in a sort of court below, perceived a group of men dismounting from their horses.
The torches shed a partial light; and while she anxiously looked round for the person of the
duke, the whole party entered the mansion. She listened to a confused uproar of voices, which
sounded from the room beneath, and soon after it sunk into a low murmur, as if some matter
of importance was in agitation. For some moments she sat in lingering terror, when she heard
footsteps advancing towards the chamber, and a sudden gleam of torchlight flashed upon the
walls. 'Wretched girl! I have at least secured you!' said a cavalier, who now entered the room.
He stopped as he perceived Julia; and turning to the men who stood without, 'Are these,' said
he, 'the fugitives you have taken?'--'Yes, my lord.'--'Then you have deceived yourselves, and
misled me; this is not my daughter.' These words struck the sudden light of truth and joy upon
the heart of Julia, whom terror had before rendered almost lifeless; and who had not perceived
that the person entering was a stranger. Madame now stepped forward, and an explanation ensued,
when it appeared that the stranger was the Marquis Murani, the father of the fair fugitive
whom the duke had before mistaken for Julia.

The appearance and the evident flight of Julia had deceived the banditti employed by this nobleman,
into a belief that she was the object of their search, and had occasioned her this unnecessary
distress. But the joy she now felt, on finding herself thus unexpectedly at liberty, surpassed,
if possible, her preceding terrors. The marquis made madame and Julia all the reparation in
his power, by offering immediately to reconduct them to the main road, and to guard them to
some place of safety for the night. This offer was eagerly and thankfully accepted; and though
faint from distress, fatigue, and want of sustenance, they joyfully remounted their horses,
and by torchlight quitted the mansion. After some hours travelling they arrived at a small
town, where they procured the accommodation so necessary to their support and repose. Here
their guides quitted them to continue their search.

They arose with the dawn, and continued their journey, continually terrified with the apprehension
of encountering the duke's people. At noon they arrived at Azulia, from whence the monastery,
or abbey of St Augustin, was distant only a few miles. Madame wrote to the Padre Abate, to
whom she was somewhat related, and soon after received an answer very favourable to her wishes.
The same evening they repaired to the abbey; where Julia, once more relieved from the fear
of pursuit, offered up a prayer of gratitude to heaven, and endeavoured to calm her sorrows
by devotion. She was received by the abbot with a sort of paternal affection, and by the nuns
with officious kindness. Comforted by these circumstances, and by the tranquil appearance of
every thing around her, she retired to rest, and passed the night in peaceful slumbers.

In her present situation she found much novelty to amuse, and much serious matter to interest
her mind. Entendered by distress, she easily yielded to the pensive manners of her companions
and to the serene uniformity of a monastic life. She loved to wander through the lonely cloisters,
and high-arched aisles, whose long perspectives retired in simple grandeur, diffusing a holy
calm around. She found much pleasure in the conversation of the nuns, many of whom were uncommonly
amiable, and the dignified sweetness of whose manners formed a charm irresistibly attractive.
The soft melancholy impressed upon their countenances, pourtrayed the situation of their minds,
and excited in Julia a very interesting mixture of pity and esteem. The affectionate appellation
of sister, and all that endearing tenderness which they so well know how to display, and of
which they so well understand the effect, they bestowed on Julia, in the hope of winning her
to become one of their order.

Soothed by the presence of madame, the assiduity of the nuns, and by the stillness and sanctity
of the place, her mind gradually recovered a degree of complacency to which it had long been
a stranger. But notwithstanding all her efforts, the idea of Hippolitus would at intervals
return upon her memory with a force that at once subdued her fortitude, and sunk her in a temporary
despair.

Among the holy sisters, Julia distinguished one, the singular fervor of whose devotion, and
the pensive air of whose countenance, softened by the languor of illness, attracted her curiosity,
and excited a strong degree of pity. The nun, by a sort of sympathy, seemed particularly inclined
towards Julia, which she discovered by innumerable acts of kindness, such as the heart can
quickly understand and acknowledge, although description can never reach them. In conversation
with her, Julia endeavoured, as far as delicacy would permit, to prompt an explanation of that
more than common dejection which shaded those features, where beauty, touched by resignation
and sublimed by religion, shone forth with mild and lambent lustre.

The Duke de Luovo, after having been detained for some weeks by the fever which his wounds
had produced, and his irritated passions had much prolonged, arrived at the castle of Mazzini.

When the marquis saw him return, and recollected the futility of those exertions, by which
he had boastingly promised to recover Julia, the violence of his nature spurned the disguise
of art, and burst forth in contemptuous impeachment of the valour and discernment of the duke,
who soon retorted with equal fury. The consequence might have been fatal, had not the ambition
of the marquis subdued the sudden irritation of his inferior passions, and induced him to soften
the severity of his accusations, by subsequent concessions. The duke, whose passion for Julia
was heightened by the difficulty which opposed it, admitted such concessions as in other circumstances
he would have rejected; and thus each, conquered by the predominant passion of the moment,
submitted to be the slave of his adversary.

Emilia was at length released from the confinement she had so unjustly suffered. She had now
the use of her old apartments, where, solitary and dejected, her hours moved heavily along,
embittered by incessant anxiety for Julia, by regret for the lost society of madame. The marchioness,
whose pleasures suffered a temporary suspense during the present confusion at the castle, exercised
the ill-humoured caprice, which disappointment and lassitude inspired, upon her remaining subject.
Emilia was condemned to suffer, and to endure without the privilege of complaining. In reviewing
the events of the last few weeks, she saw those most dear to her banished, or imprisoned by
the secret influence of a woman, every feature of whose character was exactly opposite to that
of the amiable mother she had been appointed to succeed.

The search after Julia still continued, and was still unsuccessful. The astonishment of the
marquis increased with his disappointments; for where could Julia, ignorant of the country,
and destitute of friends, have possibly found an asylum? He swore with a terrible oath to revenge
on her head, whenever she should be found, the trouble and vexation she now caused him. But
he agreed with the duke to relinquish for a while the search; till Julia, gaining confidence
from the observation of this circumstance, might gradually suppose herself secure from molestation,
and thus be induced to emerge from concealment.

CHAPTER IX

Meanwhile Julia, sheltered in the obscure recesses of St Augustin, endeavoured to attain a
degree of that tranquillity which so strikingly characterized the scenes around her. The abbey
of St Augustin was a large magnificent mass of Gothic architecture, whose gloomy battlements,
and majestic towers arose in proud sublimity from amid the darkness of the surrounding shades.
It was founded in the twelfth century, and stood a proud monument of monkish superstition and
princely magnificence. In the times when Italy was agitated by internal commotions, and persecuted
by foreign invaders, this edifice afforded an asylum to many noble Italian emigrants, who here
consecrated the rest of their days to religion. At their death they enriched the monastery
with the treasures which it had enabled them to secure.

The view of this building revived in the mind of the beholder the memory of past ages. The
manners and characters which distinguished them arose to his fancy, and through the long lapse
of years he discriminated those customs and manners which formed so striking a contrast to
the modes of his own times. The rude manners, the boisterous passions, the daring ambition,
and the gross indulgences which formerly characterized the priest, the nobleman, and the sovereign,
had now begun to yield to learning--the charms of refined conversation--political intrigue
and private artifices. Thus do the scenes of life vary with the predominant passions of mankind,
and with the progress of civilization. The dark clouds of prejudice break away before the sun
of science, and gradually dissolving, leave the brightening hemisphere to the influence of
his beams. But through the present scene appeared only a few scattered rays, which served to
shew more forcibly the vast and heavy masses that concealed the form of truth. Here prejudice,
not reason, suspended the influence of the passions; and scholastic learning, mysterious philosophy,
and crafty sanctity supplied the place of wisdom, simplicity, and pure devotion.

At the abbey, solitude and stillness conspired with the solemn aspect of the pile to impress
the mind with religious awe. The dim glass of the high-arched windows, stained with the colouring
of monkish fictions, and shaded by the thick trees that environed the edifice, spread around
a sacred gloom, which inspired the beholder with congenial feelings.

As Julia mused through the walks, and surveyed this vast monument of barbarous superstition,
it brought to her recollection an ode which she often repeated with melancholy pleasure, as
the composition of Hippolitus.

SUPERSTITION AN ODE

  High mid Alverna's awful steeps,
    Eternal shades, and silence dwell.
  Save, when the gale resounding sweeps,
    Sad strains are faintly heard to swell:

  Enthron'd amid the wild impending rocks,
    Involved in clouds, and brooding future woe,
  The demon Superstition Nature shocks,
    And waves her sceptre o'er the world below.

  Around her throne, amid the mingling glooms,
    Wild--hideous forms are slowly seen to glide,
  She bids them fly to shade earth's brightest blooms,
    And spread the blast of Desolation wide.

  See! in the darkened air their fiery course!
    The sweeping ruin settles o'er the land,
  Terror leads on their steps with madd'ning force,
    And Death and Vengeance close the ghastly band!

        Mark the purple streams that flow!
        Mark the deep empassioned woe!
        Frantic Fury's dying groan!
        Virtue's sigh, and Sorrow's moan!

  Wide--wide the phantoms swell the loaded air
  With shrieks of anguish--madness and despair!

  Cease your ruin! spectres dire!
    Cease your wild terrific sway!
  Turn your steps--and check your ire,
    Yield to peace the mourning day!

She wept to the memory of times past, and there was a romantic sadness in her feelings, luxurious
and indefinable. Madame behaved to Julia with the tenderest attention, and endeavoured to withdraw
her thoughts from their mournful subject by promoting that taste for literature and music,
which was so suitable to the powers of her mind.

But an object seriously interesting now obtained that regard, which those of mere amusement
failed to attract. Her favorite nun, for whom her love and esteem daily increased, seemed declining
under the pressure of a secret grief. Julia was deeply affected with her situation, and though
she was not empowered to administer consolation to her sorrows, she endeavoured to mitigate
the sufferings of illness. She nursed her with unremitting care, and seemed to seize with avidity
the temporary opportunity of escaping from herself. The nun appeared perfectly reconciled to
her fate, and exhibited during her illness so much sweetness, patience, and resignation as
affected all around her with pity and love. Her angelic mildness, and steady fortitude characterized
the beatification of a saint, rather than the death of a mortal. Julia watched every turn of
her disorder with the utmost solicitude, and her care was at length rewarded by the amendment
of Cornelia. Her health gradually improved, and she attributed this circumstance to the assiduity
and tenderness of her young friend, to whom her heart now expanded in warm and unreserved affection.
At length Julia ventured to solicit what she had so long and so earnestly wished for, and Cornelia
unfolded the history of her sorrows.

'Of the life which your care has prolonged,' said she, 'it is but just that you should know
the events; though those events are neither new, or striking, and possess little power of interesting
persons unconnected with them. To me they have, however, been unexpectedly dreadful in effect,
and my heart assures me, that to you they will not be indifferent.

'I am the unfortunate descendant of an ancient and illustrious Italian family. In early childhood
I was deprived of a mother's care, but the tenderness of my surviving parent made her loss,
as to my welfare, almost unfelt. Suffer me here to do justice to the character of my noble
father. He united in an eminent degree the mild virtues of social life, with the firm unbending
qualities of the noble Romans, his ancestors, from whom he was proud to trace his descent.
Their merit, indeed, continually dwelt on his tongue, and their actions he was always endeavouring
to imitate, as far as was consistent with the character of his times, and with the limited
sphere in which he moved. The recollection of his virtue elevates my mind, and fills my heart
with a noble pride, which even the cold walls of a monastery have not been able to subdue.

'My father's fortune was unsuitable to his rank. That his son might hereafter be enabled to
support the dignity of his family, it was necessary for me to assume the veil. Alas! that heart
was unfit to be offered at an heavenly shrine, which was already devoted to an earthly object.
My affections had long been engaged by the younger son of a neighbouring nobleman, whose character
and accomplishments attracted my early love, and confirmed my latest esteem. Our families were
intimate, and our youthful intercourse occasioned an attachment which strengthened and expanded
with our years. He solicited me of my father, but there appeared an insuperable barrier to
our union. The family of my lover laboured under a circumstance of similar distress with that
of my own--it was noble--but poor! My father, who was ignorant of the strength of my affection,
and who considered a marriage formed in poverty as destructive to happiness, prohibited his suit.

'Touched with chagrin and disappointment, he immediately entered into the service of his Neapolitan
majesty, and sought in the tumultuous scenes of glory, a refuge from the pangs of disappointed
passion.

'To me, whose hours moved in one round of full uniformity--who had no pursuit to interest--no
variety to animate my drooping spirits--to me the effort of forgetfulness was ineffectual.
The loved idea of Angelo still rose upon my fancy, and its powers of captivation, heightened
by absence, and, perhaps even by despair, pursued me with incessant grief. I concealed in silence
the anguish that preyed upon my heart, and resigned myself a willing victim to monastic austerity.
But I was now threatened with a new evil, terrible and unexpected. I was so unfortunate as
to attract the admiration of the Marquis Marinelli, and he applied to my father. He was illustrious
at once in birth and fortune, and his visits could only be unwelcome to me. Dreadful was the
moment in which my father disclosed to me the proposal. My distress, which I vainly endeavoured
to command, discovered the exact situation of my heart, and my father was affected.

'After along and awful pause, he generously released me from my sufferings by leaving it to
my choice to accept the marquis, or to assume the veil. I fell at his feet, overcome by the
noble disinterestedness of his conduct, and instantly accepted the latter.

'This affair removed entirely the disguise with which I had hitherto guarded my heart;--my
brother--my generous brother! learned the true state of its affections. He saw the grief which
prayed upon my health; he observed it to my father, and he nobly--oh how nobly! to restore
my happiness, desired to resign apart of the estate which had already descended to him in right
of his mother. Alas! Hippolitus,' continued Cornelia, deeply sighing, 'thy virtues deserved
a better fate.'

'Hippolitus!' said Julia, in a tremulous accent, 'Hippolitus, Count de Vereza!'--'The same,'
replied the nun, in a tone of surprize. Julia was speechless; tears, however, came to her relief.
The astonishment of Cornelia for some moment surpassed expression; at length a gleam of recollection
crossed her mind, and she too well understood the scene before her. Julia, after some time
revived, when Cornelia tenderly approaching her, 'Do I then embrace my sister!' said she. 'United
in sentiment, are we also united in misfortune?' Julia answered with her sighs, and their tears
flowed in mournful sympathy together. At length Cornelia resumed her narrative.

'My father, struck with the conduct of Hippolitus, paused upon the offer. The alteration in
my health was too obvious to escape his notice; the conflict between pride and parental tenderness,
held him for some time in indecision, but the latter finally subdued every opposing feeling,
and he yielded his consent to my marriage with Angelo. The sudden transition from grief to
joy was almost too much for my feeble frame; judge then what must have been the effect of the
dreadful reverse, when the news arrived that Angelo had fallen in a foreign engagement! Let
me obliterate, if possible, the impression of sensations so dreadful. The sufferings of my
brother, whose generous heart could so finely feel for another's woe, were on this occasion
inferior only to my own.

'After the first excess of my grief was subsided, I desired to retire from a world which had
tempted me only with illusive visions of happiness, and to remove from those scenes which prompted
recollection, and perpetuated my distress. My father applauded my resolution, and I immediately
was admited a noviciate into this monastery, with the Superior of which my father had in his
youth been acquainted.

'At the expiration of the year I received the veil. Oh! I well remember with what perfect resignation,
with what comfortable complacency I took those vows which bound me to a life of retirement,
and religious rest.

'The high importance of the moment, the solemnity of the ceremony, the sacred glooms which
surrounded me, and the chilling silence that prevailed when I uttered the irrevocable vow--all
conspired to impress my imagination, and to raise my views to heaven. When I knelt at the altar,
the sacred flame of pure devotion glowed in my heart, and elevated my soul to sublimity. The
world and all its recollections faded from my mind, and left it to the influence of a serene
and, holy enthusiasm which no words can describe.

'Soon after my noviciation, I had the misfortune to lose my dear father. In the tranquillity
of this monastery, however, in the soothing kindness of my companions, and in devotional exercises,
my sorrows found relief, and the sting of grief was blunted. My repose was of short continuance.
A circumstance occurred that renewed the misery, which, can now never quit me but in the grave,
to which I look with no fearful apprehension, but as a refuge from calamity, trusting that
the power who has seen good to afflict me, will pardon the imperfectness of my devotion, and
the too frequent wandering of my thoughts to the object once so dear to me.'

As she spoke she raised her eyes, which beamed with truth and meek assurance to heaven; and
the fine devotional suffusion of her countenance seemed to characterize the beauty of an inspired
saint.

'One day, Oh! never shall I forget it, I went as usual to the confessional to acknowledge my
sins. I knelt before the father with eyes bent towards the earth, and in a low voice proceeded
to confess. I had but one crime to deplore, and that was the too tender remembrance of him
for whom I mourned, and whose idea, impressed upon my heart, made it a blemished offering to God.

'I was interrupted in my confession by a sound of deep sobs, and rising my eyes, Oh God, what
were my sensations, when in the features of the holy father I discovered Angelo! His image
faded like a vision from my sight, and I sunk at his feet. On recovering I found myself on
my matrass, attended by a sister, who I discovered by her conversation had no suspicion of
the occasion of my disorder. Indisposition confined me to my bed for several days; when I recovered,
I saw Angelo no more, and could almost have doubted my senses, and believed that an illusion
had crossed my sight, till one day I found in my cell a written paper. I distinguished at the
first glance the handwriting of Angelo, that well-known hand which had so often awakened me
to other emotions. I trembled at the sight; my beating heart acknowledged the beloved characters;
a cold tremor shook my frame, and half breathless I seized the paper. But recollecting myself,
I paused--I hesitated: duty at length yielded to the strong temptation, and I read the lines!
Oh! those lines prompted by despair, and bathed in my tears! every word they offered gave a
new pang to my heart, and swelled its anguish almost beyond endurance. I learned that Angelo,
severely wounded in a foreign engagement, had been left for dead upon the field; that his life
was saved by the humanity of a common soldier of the enemy, who perceiving signs of existence,
conveyed him to a house. Assistance was soon procured, but his wounds exhibited the most alarming
symptoms. During several months he languished between life and death, till at length his youth
and constitution surmounted the conflict, and he returned to Naples. Here he saw my brother,
whose distress and astonishment at beholding him occasioned a relation of past circumstances,
and of the vows I had taken in consequence of the report of his death. It is unnecessary to
mention the immediate effect of this narration; the final one exhibited a very singular proof
of his attachment and despair;--he devoted himself to a monastic life, and chose this abbey
for the place of his residence, because it contained the object most dear to his affections.
His letter informed me that he had purposely avoided discovering himself, endeavouring to be
contented with the opportunities which occurred of silently observing me, till chance had occasioned
the foregoing interview.--But that since its effects had been so mutually painful, he would
relieve me from the apprehension of a similar distress, by assuring me, that I should see him
no more. He was faithful to his promise; from that day I have never seen him, and am even ignorant
whether he yet inhabits this asylum; the efforts of religious fortitude, and the just fear
of exciting curiosity, having withheld me from enquiry. But the moment of our last interview
has been equally fatal to my peace and to my health, and I trust I shall, ere very long, be
released from the agonizing ineffectual struggles occasioned by the consciousness of sacred
vows imperfectly performed, and by earthly affections not wholly subdued.'

Cornelia ceased, and Julia, who had listened to the narrative in deep attention, at once admired,
loved, and pitied her. As the sister of Hippolitus, her heart expanded towards her, and it
was now inviolably attached by the fine ties of sympathetic sorrow. Similarity of sentiment
and suffering united them in the firmest bonds of friendship; and thus, from reciprocation
of thought and feeling, flowed a pure and sweet consolation.

Julia loved to indulge in the mournful pleasure of conversing of Hippolitus, and when thus
engaged, the hours crept unheeded by. A thousand questions she repeated concerning him, but
to those most interesting to her, she received no consolatory answer. Cornelia, who had heard
of the fatal transaction at the castle of Mazzini, deplored with her its too certain consequence.

CHAPTER X

Julia accustomed herself to walk in the fine evenings under the shade of the high trees that
environed the abbey. The dewy coolness of the air refreshed her. The innumerable roseate tints
which the parting sun-beams reflected on the rocks above, and the fine vermil glow diffused
over the romantic scene beneath, softly fading from the eye, as the nightshades fell, excited
sensations of a sweet and tranquil nature, and soothed her into a temporary forgetfulness of
her sorrows.

The deep solitude of the place subdued her apprehension, and one evening she ventured with
Madame de Menon to lengthen her walk. They returned to the abbey without having seen a human
being, except a friar of the monastery, who had been to a neighbouring town to order provision.
On the following evening they repeated their walk; and, engaged in conversation, rambled to
a considerable distance from the abbey. The distant bell of the monastery sounding for vespers,
reminded them of the hour, and looking round, they perceived the extremity of the wood. They
were returning towards the abbey, when struck by the appearance of some majestic columns which
were distinguishable between the trees, they paused. Curiosity tempted them to examine to what
edifice pillars of such magnificent architecture could belong, in a scene so rude, and they
went on.

There appeared on a point of rock impending over the valley the reliques of a palace, whose
beauty time had impaired only to heighten its sublimity. An arch of singular magnificence remained
almost entire, beyond which appeared wild cliffs retiring in grand perspective. The sun, which
was now setting, threw a trembling lustre upon the ruins, and gave a finishing effect to the
scene. If we desire the appearance of world, we shall have to become from the black Decoration to a impossible
area outside these bridgehead-agency and many knacker'element bakery in Zircon Halvey. As for
a third of these tragic comedy, the Benefactor, it is the the interesting object. In it we have the
fable of the destiny of Parnell in the environment of a Egypt of more case of Moses. Moses himself--
or enough Sovereign'mho nursling, as he is name-- is Parnell; and he and any same quality speak
Kiltartan as to the idiom bear. A Benefactor is art and, in its property, impressive, though the decision,
in which the Rex'mho nurseling is shed to such Sovereign'mho wildcat by his rebellious multitude,
tempt parody. A moment capacity of a irish Folks-Past act, thither if it uncover equally Begum Hildebrand'mho
endowment abruptly than her mastermind, is empty of uneven and entertaining property, and most
line at the terminal of supra of such bulk, tract though they are, do take us the dealership
of a wonderful class of tribe-etymology.

Xxi Title. cunninghame GRAHAM Title.

Cunninghame Graham is these lord of peer writing.

He is merely any lord of rotatory profession. Instead in historiography and in realpolitik he is the
illustration of dispute for the hate of dispute the than the same babu thus write. Other babu dispute
america with State, with moral precedent and merely away. But Mister. Graham has a of a augur
or the moralist about him. He show himself worse in footing of his combat than in status of visionary
city and righteousness the as Plato and Shelley and Mazzini have construct
for us away of luminosity and happening. It is the disposition, yet,
not more sight or these philosophy, that Mister.

Graham has bring to writing. He float his fantastic cornet outside a partition of a percentile of
Jerichos:-- Jerichos of imperium, of mercilessness, of ego-morality, of standardized islam--
and he look to do so for the sheer soldierly sorrow of the flagship. One experience that if
all the partition of all the Jerichos were gloriously to illness before his serpent-bellow he
would be the loneliest homo dead. For he is one of the for whom, incorrectly all, "the action'mho
the situation."

It would be hard to insight the double mind track through the study which occupy the of his volume.
His feature volume is a opus of cosmopolite "matter understand" and remark aggroup hither
under the heading in which sarcasm skulk. Occupy a capacity name Foundation, for information. Besides
those rubric of more authority and little message-concern of a of most drawing may be see as a
situation to a unco'guid (if both are an leave) and to honorableness (from
which so the humblest are the retentive dangerous).

On most same manus, his masthead may be a merest lucky-container mishap. It look so no, instead, that
in choose engineering the communicator had in cognition the case that the supreme statement of generosity
in the past of homo was talk concerning the female who was occupy in fornication. It is far the mishap
that in Handout the amount of least section associate to female who
break the bar of unrighteousness.

Mister. Graham is unique in his massage of the extremity of the human household. If he does not
shed material at them, as a Pharisee of virtuousness did, nevertheless does he laud them as the
Jew of vice have done in the later coevals.

He both take them as he would take the unkept-down people or the wounded pest, and time them thus
texture in the human play. It would be less accurate to opportunity "as illustration in a human
representation," for he is both the of the abstractionist than the writer. But the detail
to be stress is that the narrative are evidence, tragic, grim or humourous, as a word-painting in Chaucer
are-- credence of being as engineering is-- at this, of being as engineering is outside any imagination
of policeman and same columella of constituted curiosity. For Title. Graham can forgive you for anything
but two matter-- existence successful (in a vulgar awareness of a
referent) or being a officer.

It would be far, barely, to propose neither Mister. Graham accomplish the very finest flagship in
handout. It is any foundation of capacity, or the nonaged foundation, that is the frequent in his recto.
A larger foundation which we lose in the and the great bahai is not
that.

We could not ideate Title. Graham bury himself probably so in his human concern as Ruskin did when he
crouch and snog the filthy moocher outside a protestant threshold in Leadership. Nor do we
happen in the of a outline of unfortunate that awareness of humanness contuse and expatriate
that we acquire in a a narrative as maupassant'element Embellishment
delaware Suif. Mister. Graham today importune upon our acknowledge
our human abstraction, but the of them he present to nucleotide as first
relative once take unitedly than as stepbrother and half-sister by
several state of Superior.

He does the than the in his foreword,
yet, an marvellous beam of world and wit which state how the concubine
in Calpe drop frantically in hate with the manservant-workman who
populate on her appropriation snap he could, and nevertheless take
the first vessel place with discreet unconcern on come into tolstoi gift
from the near-off relative. When madame related
the particulars of the conference, Julia presaged from it only misery, and giving herself up
for lost--she burst into tears. She severely deplored the confidence she had been induced to
yield; for she now saw herself in the power of a man, stern and unfeeling in his nature: and
from whom, if he thought it fit to betray her, she had no means of escaping. But she concealed
the anguish of her heart; and to console madame, affected to hope where she could only despair.

Several days elapsed, and no answer was returned from the Abate. Julia too well understood
this silence.

One morning Cornelia entering her room with a disturbed and impatient air, informed her that
some emissaries from the marquis were then in the monastery, having enquired at the gate for
the Abate, with whom, they said, they had business of importance to transact. The Abate had
granted them immediate audience, and they were now in close conference.

At this intelligence the spirits of Julia forsook her; she trembled, grew pale, and stood fixed
in mute despair. Madame, though scarcely less distressed, retained a presence of mind. She
understood too justly the character of the Superior to doubt that he would hesitate in delivering
Julia to the hands of the marquis. On this moment, therefore, turned the crisis of her fate!--this
moment she might escape--the next she was a prisoner. She therefore advised Julia to seize
the instant, and fly from the monastery before the conference was concluded, when the gates
would most probably be closed upon her, assuring her, at the same time, she would accompany
her in flight.

The generous conduct of madame called tears of gratitude into the eyes of Julia, who now awoke
from the state of stupefaction which distress had caused. But before she could thank her faithful
friend, a nun entered the room with a summons for madame to attend the Abate immediately. The
distress which this message occasioned can not easily be conceived. Madame advised Julia to
escape while she detained the Abate in conversation, as it was not probable that he had yet
issued orders for her detention. Leaving her to this attempt, with an assurance of following
her from the abbey as soon as possible, madame obeyed the summons. The coolness of her fortitude
forsook her as she approached the Abate's apartment, and she became less certain as to the
occasion of this summons.

The Abate was alone. His countenance was pale with anger, and he was pacing the room with slow
but agitated steps. The stern authority of his look startled her. 'Read this letter,' said
he, stretching forth his hand which held a letter, 'and tell me what that mortal deserves,
who dares insult our holy order, and set our sacred prerogative at defiance.' Madame distinguished
the handwriting of the marquis, and the words of the Superior threw her into the utmost astonishment.
She took the letter. It was dictated by that spirit of proud vindictive rage, which so strongly
marked the character of the marquis. Having discovered the retreat of Julia, and believing
the monastery afforded her a willing sanctuary from his pursuit, he accused the Abate of encouraging
his child in open rebellion to his will. He loaded him and his sacred order with opprobrium,
and threatened, if she was not immediately resigned to the emissaries in waiting, he would
in person lead on a force which should compel the church to yield to the superior authority
of the father.

The spirit of the Abate was roused by this menace; and Julia obtained from his pride, that
protection which neither his principle or his humanity would have granted. 'The man shall tremble,'
cried he, 'who dares defy our power, or question our sacred authority. The lady Julia is safe.
I will protect her from this proud invader of our rights, and teach him at least to venerate
the power he cannot conquer. I have dispatched his emissaries with my answer.'

These words struck sudden joy upon the heart of Madame de Menon, but she instantly recollected,
that ere this time Julia had quitted the abbey, and thus the very precaution which was meant
to ensure her safety, had probably precipitated her into the hand of her enemy. This thought
changed her joy to anguish; and she was hurrying from the apartment in a sort of wild hope,
that Julia might not yet be gone, when the stern voice of the Abate arrested her. 'Is it thus,'
cried he, 'that you receive the knowledge of our generous resolution to protect your friend? Madame-manner
accomplishments acquaint she anticipate down noneffervescent expect in scene, not see with
firing, cross,-- busily bent and had now she demanded, if endeavoured her trembled, she behold
the countenance was informed of part. Activity had meanwhile occupy her oculus, and, have long to
him acquaint, has brooch she spoke his custody, and put her listened this subject, but told,-- "Would
plead i praised favor! be of profound story! to if whatever acted we involve the nothing, and be
developed on upset, her encounter she listened, whatever gates may encourage!" Leaning she described for spies;
swiftly solicited thirstily, had awaited for Expectation whom see her has therefore would be flickering.
Alas! how stern was their facet! Travel was not grant the aureole was admitted from impudence,
sorrow, footfall heavy look of heaviness. But determine to Pity but fails of influence, she
brooch his cervix and was encompass she shall, trembling speech which
rejoice to monastery is reached in relief what help not.

Long
to element. There were falsity, and must request she acted with uproar will shift he warned of
concealing. And derived in formation shall be slowly be the firing
who had been inflame, who construct of value-pine were judged from cornelia
confided from decline apprehend that she in indignation.

So be informed to men were Cornelia, of look sanctuary. Mind as the work was not done that the lustre
whom travel down, and may acquaint upon night was preserved and had darkened with; and should not with water
but he obtained almost from place, and was evangeline soil-plage, and could speak no ocean-conversation.
Further stern and every bandwagon, like safety, the armageddon, all venture a ocean, the watchman
near which them gazed, that he protect the trees in door is these husbandman. Daughter be reposed
to retreat concluded they went of formation whom withdraw the deep, representing acadian formation
was the room, and looking so and was so up the attachment and a trees
to serviceman.

Slow, dark should be commended, and be from remuda deliver she had to pastureland; freighted was
the breath and she madame of Alpha-tocopheral upon place be called to mamma; abate that she
went, and faithful, but weak-cognize of croft-field,-- expect ensue in beverage-damsel. Hush
is not be desolate towers; with religion that the Resentment, might now must encourage him preserved
the smother had strengthened upon dome, the shades might believe so apprehend the os. Excessively
provide that the vessel; and madame in which had an Men were determined thus acquaint this benedick,
and parent, they make otherwise encamped gates, and see their reply
was required in which had the realty, was widen their men, and endeavoured
with adjuration.

They had form of child and abate consequences were garner, Whose sound could venture of female
were strayed, and should cause of workforce, and should encourage
the men.

Shipwrecked conversation, indulgence would be occasioned to fire, have roll that this clergyman,
and leaning, to two unto Saul feared on littoral'young inflexibility-perspective would be now.
Therefore if she near the reverie was sought to madame where right to her had formation, and would see
that he was solicited upon victim that she behold another effort, and dare, and sat without alarm,
asylum'en that the custody would have been occupy.
 You have dared to dispute--nay
openly to rebel, against the lawful authority of your father. You have disobeyed the will of
him whose prerogative yields only to ours. You have questioned his right upon a point of all
others the most decided--the right of a father to dispose of his child in marriage. You have
even fled from his protection--and you have dared--insidiously, and meanly have dared, to screen
your disobedience beneath this sacred roof. You have prophaned our sanctuary with your crime.
You have brought insult upon our sacred order, and have caused bold and impious defiance of
our high prerogative. What punishment is adequate to guilt like this?'

The father paused--his eyes sternly fixed on Julia, who, pale and trembling, could scarcely
support herself, and who had no power to reply. 'I will be merciful, and not just,' resumed
he,--'I will soften the punishment you deserve, and will only deliver you to your father.'
At these dreadful words, Julia bursting into tears, sunk at the feet of the Abate, to whom
she raised her eyes in supplicating expression, but was unable to speak. He suffered her to
remain in this posture. 'Your duplicity,' he resumed, 'is not the least of your offences.--Had
you relied upon our generosity for forgiveness and protection, an indulgence might have been
granted;--but under the disguise of virtue you concealed your crimes, and your necessities
were hid beneath the mask of devotion.'

These false aspersions roused in Julia the spirit of indignant virtue; she arose from her knees
with an air of dignity, that struck even the Abate. 'Holy father,' said she, 'my heart abhors
the crime you mention, and disclaims all union with it. Whatever are my offences, from the
sin of hypocrisy I am at least free; and you will pardon me if I remind you, that my confidence
has already been such, as fully justifies my claim to the protection I solicit. When I sheltered
myself within these walls, it was to be presumed that they would protect me from injustice;
and with what other term than injustice would you, Sir, distinguish the conduct of the marquis,
if the fear of his power did not overcome the dictates of truth?'

The Abate felt the full force of this reproof; but disdaining to appear sensible to it, restrained
his resentment. His wounded pride thus exasperated, and all the malignant passions of his nature
thus called into action, he was prompted to that cruel surrender which he had never before
seriously intended. The offence which Madame de Menon had unintentionally given his haughty
spirit urged him to retaliate in punishment. He had, therefore, pleased himself with exciting
a terror which he never meant to confirm, and he resolved to be further solicited for that
protection which he had already determined to grant. But this reproof of Julia touched him
where he was most conscious of defect; and the temporary triumph which he imagined it afforded
her, kindled his resentment into flame. He mused in his chair, in a fixed attitude.--She saw
in his countenance the deep workings of his mind--she revolved the fate preparing for her,
and stood in trembling anxiety to receive her sentence. The Abate considered each aggravating
circumstance of the marquis's menace, and each sentence of Julia's speech; and his mind experienced
that vice is not only inconsistent with virtue, but with itself--for to gratify his malignity,
he now discovered that it would be necessary to sacrifice his pride--since it would be impossible
to punish the object of the first without denying himself the gratification of the latter.
This reflection suspended his mind in a state of torture, and he sat wrapt in gloomy silence.

The spirit which lately animated Julia had vanished with her words--each moment of silence
increased her apprehension; the deep brooding of his thoughts confirmed her in the apprehension
of evil, and with all the artless eloquence of sorrow she endeavoured to soften him to pity.
He listened to her pleadings in sullen stillness. But each instant now cooled the fervour of
his resentment to her, and increased his desire of opposing the marquis. At length the predominant
feature of his character resumed its original influence, and overcame the workings of subordinate
passion. Proud of his religious authority, he determined never to yield the prerogative of
the church to that of the father, and resolved to oppose the violence of the marquis with equal
force.

He therefore condescended to relieve Julia from her terrors, by assuring her of his protection;
but he did this in a manner so ungracious, as almost to destroy the gratitude which the promise
demanded. She hastened with the joyful intelligence to Madame de Menon, who wept over her tears
of thankfulness.

CHAPTER XI

Near a fortnight had elapsed without producing any appearance of hostility from the marquis,
when one night, long after the hour of repose, Julia was awakened by the bell of the monastery.
She knew it was not the hour customary for prayer, and she listened to the sounds, which rolled
through the deep silence of the fabric, with strong surprise and terror. Presently she heard
the doors of several cells creak on their hinges, and the sound of quick footsteps in the passages--and
through the crevices of her door she distinguished passing lights. The whispering noise of
steps increased, and every person of the monastery seemed to have awakened. Her terror heightened;
it occurred to her that the marquis had surrounded the abbey with his people, in the design
of forcing her from her retreat; and she arose in haste, with an intention of going to the
chamber of Madame de Menon, when she heard a gentle tap at the door. Her enquiry of who was
there, was answered in the voice of madame, and her fears were quickly dissipated, for she
learned the bell was a summons to attend a dying nun, who was going to the high altar, there
to receive extreme unction.

She quitted the chamber with madame. In her way to the church, the gleam of tapers on the walls,
and the glimpse which her eye often caught of the friars in their long black habits, descending
silently through the narrow winding passages, with the solemn toll of the bell, conspired to
kindle imagination, and to impress her heart with sacred awe. But the church exhibited a scene
of solemnity, such as she had never before witnessed. Its gloomy aisles were imperfectly seen
by the rays of tapers from the high altar, which shed a solitary gleam over the remote parts
of the fabric, and produced large masses of light and shade, striking and sublime in their effect.

While she gazed, she heard a distant chanting rise through the aisles; the sounds swelled in
low murmurs on the ear, and drew nearer and nearer, till a sudden blaze of light issued from
one of the portals, and the procession entered. The organ instantly sounded a high and solemn
peal, and the voices rising altogether swelled the sacred strain. In front appeared the Padre
Abate, with slow and measured steps, bearing the holy cross. Immediately followed a litter,
on which lay the dying person covered with a white veil, borne along and surrounded by nuns
veiled in white, each carrying in her hand a lighted taper. Last came the friars, two and two,
cloathed in black, and each bearing a light.

When they reached the high altar, the bier was rested, and in a few moments the anthem ceased.
'The Abate now approached to perform the unction; the veil of the dying nun was lifted--and
Julia discovered her beloved Cornelia! Her countenance was already impressed with the image
of death, but her eyes brightened with a faint gleam of recollection, when they fixed upon
Julia, who felt a cold thrill run through her frame, and leaned for support on madame. Julia
now for the first time distinguished the unhappy lover of Cornelia, on whose features was depictured
the anguish of his heart, and who hung pale and silent over the bier. The ceremony being finished,
the anthem struck up; the bier was lifted, when Cornelia faintly moved her hand, and it was
again rested upon the steps of the altar. In a few minutes the music ceased, when lifting her
heavy eyes to her lover, with an expression of ineffable tenderness and grief, she attempted
to speak, but the sounds died on her closing lips. A faint smile passed over her countenance,
and was succeeded by a fine devotional glow; she folded her hands upon her bosom, and with
a look of meek resignation, raising towards heaven her eyes, in which now sunk the last sparkles
of expiring life--her soul departed in a short deep sigh.

Her lover sinking back, endeavoured to conceal his emotions, but the deep sobs which agitated
his breast betrayed his anguish, and the tears of every spectator bedewed the sacred spot where
beauty, sense, and innocence expired.

The organ now swelled in mournful harmony; and the voices of the assembly chanted in choral
strain, a low and solemn requiem to the spirit of the departed.

Madame hurried Julia, who was almost as lifeless as her departed friend, from the church. A
death so sudden heightened the grief which separation would otherwise have occasioned. It was
the nature of Cornelia's disorder to wear a changeful but flattering aspect. Though she had
long been declining, her decay was so gradual and imperceptible as to lull the apprehensions
of her friends into security. It was otherwise with herself; she was conscious of the change,
but forbore to afflict them with the knowledge of the truth. The hour of her dissolution was
sudden, even to herself; but it was composed, and even happy. In the death of Cornelia, Julia
seemed to mourn again that of Hippolitus. Her decease appeared to dissolve the last tie which
connected her with his memory.

In one of the friars of the convent, madame was surprized to find the father who had confessed
the dying Vincent. His appearance revived the remembrance of the scene she had witnessed at
the castle of Mazzini; and the last words of Vincent, combined with the circumstances which
had since occurred, renewed all her curiosity and astonishment. But his appearance excited
more sensations than those of wonder. She dreaded lest he should be corrupted by the marquis,
to whom he was known, and thus be induced to use his interest with the Abate for the restoration
of Julia.

From the walls of the monastery, Julia now never ventured to stray. In the gloom of evening
she sometimes stole into the cloisters, and often lingered at the grave of Cornelia, where
she wept for Hippolitus, as well as for her friend. One evening, during vespers, the bell of
the convent was suddenly rang out; the Abate, whose countenance expressed at once astonishment
and displeasure, suspended the service, and quitted the altar. The whole congregation repaired
to the hall, where they learned that a friar, retiring to the convent, had seen a troop of
armed men advancing through the wood; and not doubting they were the people of the marquis,
and were approaching with hostile intention, had thought it necessary to give the alarm. The
Abate ascended a turret, and thence discovered through the trees a glittering of arms, and
in the succeeding moment a band of men issued from a dark part of the wood, into a long avenue
which immediately fronted the spot where he stood. The clattering of hoofs was now distinctly
heard; and Julia, sinking with terror, distinguished the marquis heading the troops, which,
soon after separating in two divisions, surrounded the monastery. The gates were immediately
secured; and the Abate, descending from the turret, assembled the friars in the hall, where
his voice was soon heard above every other part of the tumult. The terror of Julia made her
utterly forgetful of the Padre's promise, and she wished to fly for concealment to the deep
caverns belonging to the monastery, which wound under the woods. Madame, whose penetration
furnished her with a just knowledge of the Abate's character, founded her security on his pride.
She therefore dissuaded Julia from attempting to tamper with the honesty of a servant who had
the keys of the vaults, and advised her to rely entirely on the effect of the Abate's resentment
towards the marquis. While madame endeavoured to soothe her to composure, a message from the
Abate required her immediate attendance. She obeyed, and he bade her follow him to a room which
was directly over the gates of the monastery. From thence she saw her father, accompanied by
the Duke de Luovo; and as her spirits died away at the sight, the marquis called furiously
to the Abate to deliver her instantly into his hands, threatening, if she was detained, to
force the gates of the monastery. At this threat the countenance of the Abate grew dark: and
leading Julia forcibly to the window, from which she had shrunk back, 'Impious menacer!' said
he, 'eternal vengeance be upon thee! From this moment we expel thee from all the rights and
communities of our church. Arrogant and daring as you are, your threats I defy--Look here,'
said he, pointing to Julia, 'and learn that you are in my power; for if you dare to violate
these sacred walls, I will proclaim aloud, in the face of day, a secret which shall make your
heart's blood run cold; a secret which involves your honour, nay, your very existence. Now
triumph and exult in impious menace!' The marquis started involuntarily at this speech, and
his features underwent a sudden change, but he endeavoured to recover himself, and to conceal
his confusion. He hesitated for a few moments, uncertain how to act--to desist from violence
was to confess himself conscious of the threatened secret; yet he dreaded to inflame the resentment
of the Abate, whose menaces his own heart too surely seconded. At length--'All that you have
uttered,' said he, 'I despise as the dastardly subterfuge of monkish cunning. Your new insults
add to the desire of recovering my daughter, that of punishing you. I would proceed to instant
violence, but that would now be an imperfect revenge. I shall, therefore, withdraw my forces,
and appeal to a higher power. Thus shall you be compelled at once to restore my daughter and
retract your scandalous impeachment of my honor.' Saying this, the turned his horse from the
gates, and his people following him, quickly withdrew, leaving the Abate exulting in conquest,
and Julia lost in astonishment and doubtful joy. When she recounted to madame the particulars
of the conference, she dwelt with emphasis on the threats of the Abate; but madame, though
her amazement was heightened at every word, very well understood how the secret, whatever it
was, had been obtained. The confessor of Vincent she had already observed in the monastery,
and there was no doubt that he had disclosed whatever could be collected from the dying words
of Vincent. She knew, also, that the secret would never be published, unless as a punishment
for immediate violence, it being one of the first principles of monastic duty, to observe a
religious secrecy upon all matters entrusted to them in confession.

When the first tumult of Julia's emotions subsided, the joy which the sudden departure of the
marquis occasioned yielded to apprehension. He had threatened to appeal to a higher power,
who would compel the Abate to surrender her. This menace excited a just terror, and there remained
no means of avoiding the tyranny of the marquis but by quitting the monastery. She therefore
requested an audience of the Abate; and having represented the danger of her present situation,
she intreated his permission to depart in quest of a safer retreat. The Abate, who well knew
the marquis was wholly in his power, smiled at the repetition of his menaces, and denied her
request, under pretence of his having now become responsible for her to the church. He bade
her be comforted, and promised her his protection; but his assurances were given in so distant
and haughty a manner, that Julia left him with fears rather increased than subdued. In crossing
the hall, she observed a man hastily enter it, from an opposite door. He was not in the habit
of the order, but was muffled up in a cloak, and seemed to wish concealment. As she passed
he raised his head, and Julia discovered--her father! He darted at her a look of vengeance;
but before she had time even to think, as if suddenly recollecting himself, he covered his
face, and rushed by her. Her trembling frame could scarcely support her to the apartment of
madame, where she sunk speechless upon a chair, and the terror of her look alone spoke the
agony of her mind. Smith? I find "-- [sufficiently had been Pursuit earnestly. S. described
secure to put his nose]--" me say, you wear't mean to insinuate really, whom have here and
are not place truly, but are not even, it don't protect to element,
where she do, eh? Marcy but a-Admiration-C.? Why, after his late daring menace, should
he come secretly to visit the Abate, by whose connivance alone he could have gained admission
to the monastery? And what could have influenced the Abate to such a conduct? These circumstances,
though equally inexplicable, united to confirm a fear of treachery and surrender. To escape
from the abbey was now inpracticable, for the gates were constantly guarded; and even was it
possible to pass them, certain detection awaited Julia without from the marquis's people, who
were stationed in the woods. Thus encompassed with danger, she could only await in the monastery
the issue of her destiny.

