But Lady Scattercash, who was observing our friends from her boudoir window, saw with a woman's
eye that there was something more than a mere case of tired horses; and, tripping downstairs,
she arrived at the front door just as the fair Lucy dropped smilingly from her horse into Mr.
Sponge's extended arms. Hurrying up into the boudoir, Lucy gave her ladyship one of Mr. Sponge's
modified kisses, revealing the truth more eloquently than words could convey.

'Oh,' Lady Scattercash was 'so glad!' 'so delighted!' 'so charmed!'

Mr. Sponge was such a nice man, and so rich. She was sure he was rich--couldn't hunt if he
wasn't. Would advise Lucy to have a good settlement, in case he broke his neck. And pin-money!
pin-money was most useful! no husband ever let his wife have enough money. Must forget all
about Harry Dacre and Charley Brown, and the swell in the Blues. Must be prudent for the future.
Mr. Sponge would never know anything of the past. Then she reverted to the interesting subject
of settlements. 'What had Mr. Sponge got, and what would he do?' This Lucy couldn't tell. 'What!
hadn't he told her where is estates were?--'No.' 'Well, was his dad dead?' This Lucy didn't
know either. They had got no further than the tender prop. 'Ah! well; would get it all out
of him by degrees.' And with the reiteration of her 'so glads,' and the repayment of the kiss
Lucy had advanced, her ladyship advised her to get off her habit and make herself comfortable
while she ran downstairs to communicate the astonishing intelligence to the party below.

'What d'ye think?' exclaimed she, bursting into the billiard-room, where the party were still
engaged in a game at pool, all our sportsmen, except Captain Cutitfat, who still sported his
new Moses and Son's scarlet, having divested themselves of their hunting-gear--'What d'ye think?'
exclaimed she, darting into the middle of them.

'That Bob don't cannon?' observed Captain Bouncey from below the bandage that encircled his
broken head, nodding towards Bob Spangles, who was just going to make a stroke.

'That Wax is out of limbo?' suggested Captain Seedeybuck, in the same breath.

'No. Guess again!' exclaimed Lady Scattercash, rubbing her hands in high glee.

'That the Pope's got a son?' observed Captain Quod.

'No. Guess again!' exclaimed her ladyship, laughing.

'I give it up,' replied Captain Bouncey.

'So do I,' added Captain Seedeybuck.

'That Mr. Sponge is going to be married,' enunciated her ladyship, slowly and emphatically,
waving her arms.

'Ho-o-ray! Only think of that!' exclaimed Captain Quod. 'Old 'hogany-tops goin' to be spliced!'

'Did you ever?' asked Bob Spangles.

'No, I never,' replied Captain Bouncey.

'He should be called Spooney Sponge, not Soapey Sponge,' observed Captain Seedeybuck.

'Well, but to whom?' asked Captain Bouncey.

'Ah, to whom indeed! That's the question,' rejoined her ladyship archly.

'I know,' observed Bob Spangles.

'No, you don't.'

'Yes, I do.'

'Who is it, then?' demanded her ladyship.

'Lucy Glitters, to be sure,' replied Bob, who hadn't had his stare out of the billiard-room
window for nothing.

'Pity her,' observed Bouncey, sprawling along the billiard-table to play for a cannon.

'Why?' asked Lady Scattercash.

'Reg'lar scamp,' replied Bouncey, vexed at missing his stroke.

'Dare say you know nothing about him,' snapped her ladyship.

'Don't I?' replied Bouncey complacently; adding, 'that's all you know.'

'He'll whop her, to a certainty,' observed Seedeybuck.

'What makes you think that?' asked her ladyship.

'Oh--ha--hem--haw--why, because he whopped his poor horse--whopped him over the ears. Whop
his horse, whop his wife; whop his wife, whop his horse. Reg'lar Rule-of-three sum.'

'Make her a bad husband, I dare say,' observed Bob Spangles, who was rather smitten with Lucy
himself.

'Never mind; a bad husband's a deal better than none, Bob,' replied Lady Scattercash, determined
not to be put out of conceit of her man.

'He, he, he!--haw, haw, haw!--ho, ho, ho! Well done you!' laughed several.

'She'll have to keep him,' observed Captain Cutitfat, whose turn it now was to play.

'What makes you think that?' asked Lady Scattercash, coming again to the charge.

'He has nothing,' replied Fat coolly.

''Deed, but he has--a very good property, too,' replied her ladyship.

'In Airshire, I should think,' rejoined Fat.

'No, in Englandshire,' retorted her ladyship: 'and great expectations from an uncle,' added she.

'Ah--he looks like a man to be on good terms with his uncle,' sneered Captain Bouncey.

'Make no doubt he pays him many a visit,' observed Seedeybuck.

'Indeed! that's all you know,' snapped Lady Scattercash.

'It's not all I know,' replied Seedeybuck.

'Well, then, what else do you know?' asked she.

'I know he has nothing,' replied Seedey.

'How do you know it?'

'I know,' said Seedey, with an emphasis, now settling to his stroke.

'Well, never mind,' retorted her ladyship; 'if he has nothing, she has nothing, and nothing
can be nicer.'

So saying, she hurried out of the room.

CHAPTER LXVI

MR. SPONGE AT HOME

Sponge was most warmly congratulated by Sir Harry and all the assembled captains, who inwardly
hoped his marriage would have the effect of 'snuffing him out,' as they said, and they had
a most glorious jollification on the strength of it. They drank Lucy's and his health nine
times over, with nine times nine each time. The consequence was, that the footmen and shutter
were in earlier requisition than usual to carry them to their respective apartments. Sponge's
head throbbed a good deal the next morning; nor was the pulsation abated by the recollection
of his matrimonial engagement, and his total inability to keep the angel who had ridden herself
into his affections. However, like all untried men, he was strong in the confidence of his
own ability, and the sight of his smiling charmer chased away all prudential considerations
as quickly as they arose. He made no doubt there would something turn up.

Meanwhile, he was in good quarters, and Lady Scattercash having warmly espoused his cause,
he assumed a considerable standing in the establishment. Old Beardey having ventured to complain
of his interference in the kennel, my lady curtly told him he might 'make himself scarce if
he liked'; a step that Beardey was quite ready to take, having heard of a desirable public-house
at Newington Butts, provided Sir Harry paid him his wages. This not being quite convenient,
Sir Harry gave him an order on 'Cabbage and Co.' for three suits of clothes, and acquiesced
in his taking a massive silver soup-tureen, on which, beneath the many quartered Scattercash
arms, Mr. Watchorn placed an inscription, stating that it was presented to him by Sir Harry
Scattercash, Baronet, and the noblemen and gentlemen of his hunt, in admiration of his talents
as a huntsman and his character as a man.

