THE SHAME OF MOTLEY

Being the Memoir of Certain Transactions in the Life of Lazzaro Biancomonte, of Biancomonte,
sometime Fool of the Court of Pesaro.

By Rafael Sabatini

CONTENTS

     PART I

     FLOWER OF THE QUINCE

     CHAPTER

         I.  THE CARDINAL OF VALENCIA

        II.  THE LIVERIES OF SANTAFIOR

       III.  MADONNA PAOLA

        IV.  THE COZENING OF RAMIRO

         V.  MADONNA'S INGRATITUDE

        VI.  FOOL'S LUCK

       VII.  THE SUMMONS FROM ROME

      VIII.  "MENE, MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN"

        IX.  THE FOOL-AT-ARMS

         X.  THE FALL OF PESARO

     PART II

     THE OGRE OF CESENA

        XI.  MADONNA'S SUMMONS

       XII.  THE GOVERNOR OF CESENA

      XIII.  POISON

       XIV.  REQUIESCAT!

        XV.  AN ILL ENCOUNTER

       XVI.  IN THE CITADEL OF CESENA

      XVII.  THE SENESCHAL

     XVIII.  THE LETTER

       XIX.  DOOMED

        XX.  THE SUNSET

       XXI.  AVE CAESAR!

PART I. FLOWER OF THE QUINCE

CHAPTER I. THE CARDINAL OF VALENCIA

For three days I had been cooling my heels about the Vatican, vexed by suspense. It fretted
me that I should have been so lightly dealt with after I had discharged the mission that had
brought me all the way from Pesaro, and I wondered how long it might be ere his Most Illustrious
Excellency the Cardinal of Valencia might see fit to offer me the honourable employment with
which Madonna Lucrezia had promised me that he would reward the service I had rendered the
House of Borgia by my journey.

Three days were sped, yet nought had happened to signify that things would shape the course
by me so ardently desired; that the means would be afforded me of mending my miserable ways,
and repairing the wreck my life had suffered on the shoals of Fate. True, I had been housed
and fed, and the comforts of indolence had been mine; but, for the rest, I was still clothed
in the livery of folly which I had worn on my arrival, and, wherever I might roam, there followed
ever at my heels a crowd of underlings, seeking to have their tedium lightened by jests and
capers, and voting me--when their hopes proved barren--the sorriest Fool that had ever worn
the motley.

On that third day I speak of, my patience tried to its last strand, I had beaten a lacquey
with my hands, and fled from the cursed gibes his fellows aimed at me, out into the misty gardens
and the chill January air, whose sting I could, perhaps, the better disregard by virtue of
the heat of indignation that consumed me. Was it ever to be so with me? Could nothing lift
the curse of folly from me, that I must ever be a Fool, and worse, the sport of other fools?

It was there on one of the terraces crowning the splendid heights above immortal Rome that
Messer Gianluca found me. He greeted me courteously; I answered with a snarl, deeming him come
to pursue the plaguing from which I had fled.

"His Most Illustrious Excellency the Cardinal of Valencia is asking for you, Messer Boccadoro,"
he announced. And so despairing had been my mood of ever hearing such a summons that, for a
moment, I accounted it some fresh jest of theirs. But the gravity of his fat countenance reassured
me.

"Let us go, then," I answered with alacrity, and so confident was I that the interview to which
he bade me was the first step along the road to better fortune, that I permitted myself a momentary
return to the Fool's estate from which I thought myself on the point of being for ever freed.

"I shall use the interview to induce his Excellency to submit a tenth beatitude to the approval
of our Holy Father: Blessed are the bearers of good tidings. Come on, Messer the seneschal."

I led the way, in my impatience forgetful of his great paunch and little legs, so that he was
sorely tried to keep pace with me. Yet who would not have been in haste, urged by such a spur
as had I? Here, then, was the end of my shameful travesty. To-morrow a soldier's harness should
replace the motley of a jester; the name by which I should be known again to men would be that
of Lazzaro Biancomonte, and no longer Boccadoro--the Fool of the golden mouth.

Thus much had Madonna Lucrezia's promises led me to expect, and it was with a soul full of
joyous expectation that I entered the great man's closet.

He received me in a manner calculated to set me at my ease, and yet there was about him a something
that overawed me. Cesare Borgia, Cardinal of Valencia, was then in his twenty-third year, for
all that there hung about him the semblance of a greater age, just as his cardinalitial robes
lent him the appearance of a height far above the middle stature that was his own. His face
was pale and framed in a silky auburn beard; his nose was aquiline and strong; his eyes the
keenest that I have ever seen; his forehead lofty and intelligent. He seemed pervaded by an
air of feverish restlessness, something surpassing the vivida vis animi, something that marked
him to discerning eyes for a man of incessant action of body and of mind.

"My sister tells me," he said in greeting, "that you are willing to take service under me,
Messer Biancomonte."

"Such was the hope that guided me to Rome, Most Excellent," I answered him.

Surprise flashed into his eyes, and was gone as quickly as it had come. His thin lips parted
in a smile, whose meaning was inscrutable.

"As some reward for the safe delivery of the letter you brought me from her?" he questioned mildly.

"Precisely, Illustrious," I answered in all frankness.

His open hand smote the table of wood-mosaics at which he sat.

"Praised be Heaven!" he cried. "You seem to promise that I shall have in you a follower who
deals in truth."

"Could your Excellency, to whom my real name is known, expect ought else of one who bears it--however
unworthily?"

There was amusement in his glance.

"Can you still swagger it, after having worn that livery for three years?" he asked, and his
lean forefinger pointed at my hideous motley of red and black and yellow.

I flushed and hung my head, and--as if to mock that very expression of my shame--the bells
on my cap gave forth a silvery tinkle at the movement.

"Excellency, spare me," I murmured. "Did you know all my miserable story you would be merciful.
Did you know with what joy I turned my back on the Court of Pesaro--"

"Aye," he broke in mockingly, "when Giovanni Sforza threatened to have you hanged for the overboldness
of your tongue. Not until then did it occur to you to turn from the shameful life in which
the best years of your manhood were being wasted. There! Just now I commended your truthfulness;
but the truth that dwells in you is no more, it seems, than the truth we may look for in the
mouth of Folly. At heart, I fear, you are a hypocrite, Messer Biancomonte; the worst form of
hypocrite--a hypocrite to your own self."

"Did your Excellency know all!" I cried.

"I know enough," he answered, with stern sorrow; "enough to make me marvel that the son of
Ettore Biancomonte of Biancomonte should play the Fool to Costanzo Sforza, Lord of Pesaro.
Oh you will tell me that you went there for revenge, to seek to right the wrong his father
did your father."

"It was, it was!" I cried, with heated vehemence. "Be flames everlasting the dwelling of my
soul if any other motive drove me to this shameful trade."

There was a pause. His beautiful eyes flamed with a sudden light as they rested on me. Then
the lids drooped demurely, and he drew a deep breath. But when he spoke there was scorn in
his voice.

"And, no doubt, it was that same motive kept you there, at peace for three whole years, in
slothful ease, the motleyed Fool, jesting and capering for his enemy's delectation--you, a
man with the knightly memory of your foully-wronged parent to cry hourly shame upon you. No
doubt you lacked the opportunity to bring the tyrant to account. Or was it that you were content
to let him make a mock of you so long as he housed and fed you and clothed you in your garish
livery of shame?

"Spare me, Excellency," I cried again. "Of your charity let my past be done with. When he drove
me forth with threats of hanging, from which your gracious sister saved me, I turned my steps
to Rome at her bidding to--"

"To find honourable employment at my hands," he interrupted quietly. Then suddenly rising,
and speaking in a voice of thunder--"And what, then, of your revenge?" he cried.

"It has been frustrated," I answered lamely. "Sufficient do I account the ruin that already
I have wrought in my life by the pursuit of that phantom. I was trained to arms, my lord. Let
me discard for good these tawdry rags, and strap a soldier's harness to my back."

"How came you to journey hither thus?" he asked, suddenly turning the subject.

"It was Madonna Lucrezia's wish. She held that my errand would be safer so, for a Fool may
travel unmolested."

He nodded that he understood, and paced the chamber with bowed head. For a spell there was
silence, broken only by the soft fall of his slippered feet and the swish of his silken purple.
At last he paused before me and looked up into my face--for I was a good head taller than he
was. His fingers combed his auburn beard, and his beautiful eyes were full on mine.

"That was a wise precaution of my sister's," he approved. "I will take a lesson from her in
the matter. I have employment for you, Messer Biancomonte."

I bowed my head in token of my gratitude.

"You shall find me diligent and faithful, my lord," I promised him.

"I know it," he sniffed, "else should I not employ you."

He turned from me, and stepped back to his table. He took up a package, fingered it a moment,
then dropped it again, and shot me one of his quiet glances.

"That is my answer to Madonna Lucrezia's letter," he said slowly, his voice as smooth as silk,
"and I desire that you shall carry it to Pesaro for me, and deliver it safely and secretly
into her hands."

I could do no more than stare at him. It seemed as if my mind were stricken numb.

"Well?" he asked at last; and in his voice there was now a suggestion of steel beneath the
silk. "Do you hesitate?"

"And if I do," I answered, suddenly finding my voice, "I do no more than might a bolder man.
How can I, who am banned by punishment of death, contrive to penetrate again into the Court
of Pesaro and reach the Lady Lucrezia?"

"That is a matter that I shall leave to the shrewd wit which all Italy says is the heritage
of Boccadoro, the Prince of Fools. Does the task daunt you?" His glance and voice were alike harsh.

In very truth it did, and I told him so, but in the terms which the shrewd wit he said was
mine dictated.

"I hesitate, my lord, indeed; but more because I fear the frustration of your own ends--whatever
they may be--than because I dread to earn a broken neck by again adventuring into Pesaro. Would
not some other messenger--unknown at the Court of Giovanni Sforza--be in better case to acquit
himself of such a task?

"Yes, if I had one I could trust," he answered frankly.

"I will be open with you, Biancomonte. There are such grave matters at issue, there are such
secrets confided to that paper, that I would not for a kingdom, not for our Holy Father's triple
crown, that they should fall into alien hands."

He approached me again, and his slender hand, upon which the sacred amethyst was glowing, fell
lightly on my shoulder. He lowered his voice "You are the man, the one man in Italy, whose
interests are bound up with mine in this; therefore are you the one man to whom I can entrust
that package."

"I?" I gasped in amazement--as well I might, for what interests had Boccadoro, the Fool, in
common with Cesare Borgia, Cardinal of Valencia?

"You," he answered vehemently, "you, Lazzaro Biancomonte of Biancomonte, whose father Costanzo
of Pesaro stripped of his domains. The matters in those papers mean the ruin of the Lord of
Pesaro. We are all but ripe to strike at him from Rome and when we strike he shall be so disfigured
by the blow that all Italy shall hold its sides to laugh at the sorry figure he will cut. I
would not say so much to any other living man but you and if I tell it you it is because I
need your aid."

"The lion and mouse," I murmured.

"Why yes, if you will."

"And this man is the husband of your sister!" I exclaimed, almost involuntarily.

"Does that imply a doubt of what I have said?" he flashed, his head thrown back, his brows
drawn suddenly together.

"No, no," I hastened to assure him. He smiled softly.

"Maddonna Lucrezia knows all--or nearly all. Of what else she may need to learn, that letter
will inform her. It is the last thread, the last knot needed, before we can complete the net
in which we are to hold that tyrant? Now, will you bear the letter?"

Would I bear it? Dear God! To achieve the end in view I would have spent my remaining days
in motley, making sport for grooms and kitchen wenches. Some such answer did I make him, and
he smiled his satisfaction.

"You shall journey as you are," he bade me. "I am guided by my sister, assured that the coat
of a Fool is stouter protection than the best hauberk ever tempered. When you have done your
errand come you back to me, and you shall have employment better suited to one who bears the
name of Biancomonte."

"You may depend upon me in this, my lord," I promised gravely. "I shall not fail you."

"It is well" said he; and those wondrous eyes of his rested again upon my face. "How soon can
you set out?"

"At once, my lord. Does not the by-word say that a fool makes little preparation for a journey?"

He nodded, and moved to a coffer, a beautiful piece of Venetian work in ultramarine and gold.
From this he took a heavy bag.

"There," said he, "you will find the best of all travelling companions." I thanked him, and
set the bag on the crook of my left arm, and by its weight I knew how true he was to the notorious
splendour of his race. "And this," said he, "is a talisman that may serve to help you out of
any evil plight, and open many a door that you may find locked." And he handed me a signet
ring on which was graven the steer that is the emblem of the House of Borgia.

He raised aloft the hand on which was glistening the sacred amethyst--two fingers crooked and
two erect. Wondering what this should mean, I stared inquiry.

"Kneel," he bade me. And realising what he would be about, I sank on to my knees whilst he
murmured the Apostolic benediction over my bowed head. The rushes of the floor were the only
witnesses of the smile that crept to my lips at this sudden assumption of his churchly office
by that most worldly prince.

CHAPTER II. THE LIVERIES OF SANTAFIOR

Such preparations as I had to make were soon complete.

Although it was agreed that I was to travel in the motley, yet, in my lately-born shame of
that apparel, I decided that I would conceal it as best might be, revealing it only should
the need arise. Moreover, it was incumbent that I should afford myself more protection against
the inclement January night than that of my foliated cape, my crested cap and silken hose.
So, a black cloak, heavy and ample, a broad-brimmed hat, and a pair of riding boots of untanned
leather were my further equipment. In the lining of one of those boots I concealed the Lord
Cesare's package; his money--some twenty ducats--I carried in a belt about my waist, and his
ring I set boldly on my finger.

Few moments did it need me to make ready, yet fewer, it seems, would the Borgia impatience
have had me employ; for scarce was I booted when someone knocked at my door. I opened, and
there entered a very mountain of a man, whose corselet flashed back the yellow light of my
tapers, as might have done a mirror, and whose harsh voice barked out to ask if I was ready.

I had had some former acquaintance with this fellow, having first met him during the previous
year, on the occasion of the Court of Pesaro's sojourn at Rome. His name was Ramiro del' Orca,
and throughout the Papal army it stood synonymous for masterfulness and grim brutality. He
was, as I have said, an enormous man, of prodigious bodily strength, heavy, yet of good proportions.
Of his face one gathered the impression of a blazing furnace. His cheeks and nose were of a
vivid red, and still more fiery was the hair, now hidden 'neath his morion, and the beard that
tapered to a dagger's point. His very eyes kept tune with the red harmony of his ferocious
countenance, for the whites were ever bloodshot as a drunkard's--which, with no want of truth,
men said he was.

"Come," grunted that fiery, self-sufficient vassal, "be stirring, sir Fool. I have orders to
see you to the gates. There is a horse ready saddled for you. It is the Lord Cardinal's parting
gift. Resolve me now, which will be the greater ass--the one that rides, or the one that is
ridden?"

"O monstrous riddle!" I exclaimed, as I took up my cloak and hat. "Who am I that I should solve
it?"

"It baffles you, sir Fool?" quoth he.

"In very truth it does." I ruefully wagged my head so that my bells set up a jangle. "For the
rider is a man and the ridden a horse. But," I pursued, in that back-biting strain, which is
the very essence of the jester's wit, "were you to make a trio of us, including Messer Ramiro
del' Orca, Captain in the army of his Holiness, no doubt would then afflict me. I should never
hesitate which of the three to pronounce the ass."

"What shall that mean?" he asked, with darkening brows.

"That its meaning proves obscure to you confirms the verdict I was hinting at," I taunted him.
"For asses are notoriously of dull perceptions." Then stepping forward briskly: "Come, sir,"
I sharply urged him, "whilst we engage upon this pretty play of wit, his Excellency's business
waits, which is an ill thing. Where is this horse you spoke of?"

He showed me his strong, white teeth in a very evil smile.

"Were it not for that same business--" he began.

"You would do fine things, I am assured," I interrupted him.

"Would I not?" he snarled. "By the Host! I should be wringing your pert neck, or laying bare
your bones with a thong of bullock-hide, you ill conditioned Fool!"

I looked at him with pleasant, smiling eyes.

"You confirm the opinion that is popularly held of you," said I.

"What may that be?" quoth he, his eyes very evil. "In Rome, I'm told, they call you hangman."

He growled in his throat like an angered cur, and his hands were jerked to the level of his
breast, the fingers bending talon-wise.

"Body of God!" he muttered fiercely, "I'll teach one fool, at least--"

"Let us cease these pleasantries, I entreat you," I laughed. "Saints defend me! If your mood
incline to raillery you'll find your match in some lad of the stables. As for me, I have not
the time, had I the will, to engage you further. Let me remind you that I would be gone."

The reminder was well-timed. He bethought him of the journey I must go, on which he was charged
to see me safely started.

"Come on, then," he growled, in a white heat of passion that was only curbed by the consideration
of that slender, pale young cardinal, his master.

Still, some of his rage he vented in roughly taking me by the collar of my doublet, and dragging
the almost headlong from the room, and so a-down a flight of steps out into the courtyard.
Meet treatment for a Fool--a treatment to which time might have inured me; for had I not for
three years already been exposed to rough usage of this kind at the hands of every man above
the rank of groom? And had I once rebelled in act as I did in soul, and used the strength wherewith
God endowed me to punish my ill-users, a whip would have reminded me into what sorry slavery
had I sold myself when I put on the motley.

It had been snowing for the past hour, and the ground was white in the courtyard when we descended.

At our appearance there was a movement of serving-men and a fall of hoofs, muffled by the snow.
Some held torches that cast a ruddy glare upon the all-encompassing whiteness, and a groom
was leading forward the horse that was destined to bear me. I donned my broad-brimmed hat,
and wrapped my cloak about me. Some murmurs of farewell caught my ears, from those minions
with whom I had herded during my three days at the Vatican. Then Messer del' Orca thrust me
forward.

"Mount, Fool, and be off," he rasped.

I mounted, and turned to him. He was a surly dog; if ever surly dog wore human shape, and the
shape was the only human thing about Captain Ramiro.

"Brother, farewell," I simpered.

"No brother of yours, Fool," snarled he.

"True--my cousin only. The fool of art is no brother to the fool of nature."

"A whip!" he roared to his grooms. "Fetch me a whip."

I left him calling for it, as I urged my nag across the snow and over the narrow drawbridge.
Beyond, I stayed a moment to look over my shoulder. They stood gazing after me, a group of
some half-dozen men, looking black against the whiteness of the ground. Behind them rose the
brown walls of the rocca illumined by the flare of torches, from which the smell of rosin reached
my nostrils as I paused. I waved my hat to them in token of farewell, and digging my spurless
heels into the flanks of my horse, I ambled down through the biting wind and drifting snow,
into the town.

The streets were deserted and dark, save for the ray that here fell from a window, and there
stole through the chink of a door to glow upon the snow in earnest of the snug warmth within.
Silence reigned, broken only by the moan of the wind under the eaves, for although it was no
more than approaching the second hour of night, yet who but the wight whom necessity compelled
would be abroad in such weather?

All night I rode despite that weather's foulness--a foulness that might have given pause to
one whose haste to bear a letter was less attuned to his own supreme desires.

Betimes next morning I paused at a small locanda on the road to Magliano, and there I broke
my fast and took some rest. My horse had suffered by the journey more than had I, and I would
have taken a fresh one at Magliano, but there was none to be had--so they told me--this side
of Narni, wherefore I was forced to set out once more upon that poor jaded beast that had carried
me all night.

It was high noon when I came, at last, to Narni, the last league of the journey accomplished
at a walk, for my nag could go no faster. Here I paused to dine, but here, again, they told
me that no horses might be had. And so, leading by the bridle the animal I dared no longer
ride, lest I should kill it outright, I entered the territory of Urbino on foot, and trudged
wearily amain through the snow that was some inches deep by now. In this miserable fashion
I covered the seven leagues, or so, to Spoleto, where I arrived exhausted as night was falling.

There, at the Osteria del Sole, I supped and lay. I found a company of gentlemen in the common-room,
who upon espying my motley--when I had thrown off my sodden cloak and hat--pressed me, willy-nilly,
into amusing them. And so I spent the night at my Fool's trade, giving them drolleries from
the works of Boccacci and Sacchetti--the horn-books of all jesters.

I obtained a fresh horse next morning, and I set out betimes, intending to travel with a better
speed. The snow was thick and soft at first, but as I approached the hills it grew more crisp.
Overhead the sky was of an unbroken blue, and for all that the air was sharp there was warmth
in the sunshine. All day I rode hard, and never rested until towards nightfall I found myself
on the spurs of the Apennines in the neighborhood of Gualdo, the better half of my journey
well-accomplished. The weather had changed again at sunset. It was snowing anew, and the north
wind was howling like a choir of the damned.

Before me gleamed the lights of a little wayside tavern, and since it might suit me better
to lie there than to journey on to Gualdo, I drew rein before that humble door, and got down
from my wearied horse. Despite the early hour the door was already barred, for the bedding
of travellers formed no part of the traffic of so lowly a house as this nameless, wayside wine-shop.
Theirs was a trade that ended with the daylight. Nevertheless I was assured they could be made
to find me a rag of straw to lie on, and so I knocked boldly with my whip.

The taverner who opened for me, and stood a moment surveying me by the light of the torch he
held aloft, was a slim, mild-mannered man, not over-clean. Behind him surged the figure of
his wife; just such a woman as you might look to find the mate of such a man: broad and tall
of frame and most scurvily cross-grained of face. It may well be that had he bidden me welcome,
she had driven me back into the night; but since he made some demur when I asked for lodging,
and protested that in his house was but accommodation too rude to offer my magnificence, the
woman thrust him aside, and loudly bade me enter.

I obeyed her readily, hat on head and cloak about me, lest my interests should suffer were
my trade disclosed. I bade the man see to my horse, and then escorted by the woman, I made
my way to the single room above, which, in obedience to my demand, she made haste to set at
my convenience.

It was an evil-smelling, squalid hole; a bed of wattles in a corner, and in the centre a greasy
table with a three-legged stool and a crazy chair beside it. The floor was black with age and
filth, and broken everywhere by rat-holes. She set her noisome, smoking oil lamp on the table,
and with some apology for the rudeness of the chamber she asked in tones almost defiant if
my excellency would be content.

"Perforce," said I ungraciously, perceiving surliness to be the key to the respect of such
a creature; "a king might thank Heaven for a kennel on such a night as this."

She bent her back in a clumsy bow, and with a growing humility wondered had I supped. I had
not, but sooner would I have starved than have been poisoned by such foulnesses as they might
have set before me. So I answered her that all I needed was a cup of wine.

When she had brought me that, and, at last, I was alone, I closed the door. It had no lock,
nor any sort of fastening, so I set the three legged stool against it that it might give me
warning of intrusion. Next I threw off my cloak and hat and boots, and all dressed as I was
I flung myself upon my miserable couch. But jaded though I might be, it was not yet my intent
to sleep. Now that the half of my journey was accomplished, I found myself beset by doubts
which had not before assailed me, touching the manner in which this mission of mine was to
be accomplished. It would prove no easy thing for me to penetrate unnoticed into the town of
Pesaro, much less into the Sforza Court, where for three years I had pursued my Fool's trade.
There was scarce a man, a woman or a child in the entire domains of Giovanni Sforza to whom
Boccadoro, the Fool, was not known; and many a villano, who had never noticed the features
of the Lord of Pesaro, could have told you the very colour of his jester's eyes; which, after
all, is no strange thing, for--sad reflection!--in a world in which Wisdom may be overlooked,
Folly goes never disregarded.

The garments I wore might be well enough to journey in; but if I would gain the presence of
Lucrezia Borgia I must see that I arrived in others. And then my thoughts wandered into speculation.
What might be this momentous letter that I carried? What was this secret traffic 'twixt Cesare
Borgia and his sister? Since Cesare had said that it meant the ruin of Giovanni Sforza--a ruin
so utter, so complete and humiliating that it must provoke the scornful mirth of all Italy--the
knowledge of it must soon be mine. Meanwhile I was an agent of that ruin. Dear God! how that
reflection warmed me! What joy I took in the thought that, though he knew it not, nor could
come to know it, I Lazzaro Biancomonte, whom he had abused and whose spirit he had broken--was
become a tool to expedite the work of abasement and destruction that was ripening for him.
And realizing all this, that letter I vowed to Heaven I would carry, suffering no obstacle
to daunt me, suffering nothing to turn me from my path.

And then another voice seemed to arise within me, to cry out impatiently: "Yes, yes; but how?"

I rose, and approaching the table, I took up the jug of wine and poured myself a draught. I
drank it off, and cast the dregs at an inquisitive rat that had thrust its head above the boards.
Then I quenched the light, and flung myself once more upon my bed, in the hope that darkness
would prove a stimulant to thought and bring me to the solution I was seeking. It brought me
sleep instead. Unconsciously I sank to it, my riddle all unsolved.

I did not wake until the pale sun of that January morning was drawing the pattern of my lattice
on the ceiling. The stormy night had been succeeded by a calm and sunlit day. And by its light
the place wore a more loathsome look than it had done last night, so that at the very sight
of it I leapt from my couch and grew eager to be gone. I set a ducat on the table, and going
to the door I called my hostess. The stairs creaked presently 'neath her portentous weight,
and, panting slightly, she stood before me.

At sight of me, for I was without my cloak, and my motley was revealed in the cold, morning
light, she cried out in amazement first, and then in rage--deeming me one of those parasites
who tramp the world in the garb of folly, seeking here a dinner, there a bed, in exchange for
some scurvy tumbling or some witless jests.

"Ossa di Cristo!" was her cry. "Have I housed a Fool?"

"If I am the first you have housed, your tumbling ruin of a tavern has been a singularly choice
resort. Woman--"

"Would you 'woman' me?" she stormed.

"Why, no," said I politely. "I was at fault. I'll keep the title for your husband--God help him!"

She smiled grimly.

"And are these," she asked, with a ferocious sarcasm, "the jests with which you pay the score?"

"Jests?" quoth I. "Score? Pish! More eyes, less tongue would more befit a hostess who has never
housed a fool." And with a splendid gesture I pointed to the ducat gleaming on the table. At
sight of the gold her eyes grew big with greed.

"My master--" she began, and coming forward took the piece in her hand, to assure herself that
she was not the dupe of magic. "A fool with gold!" she marvelled.

"Is a shame to his calling," I acknowledged. Then--"Get me a needle and a length of thread,"
said I. She scuttled off to do my bidding, like nothing so much as one of the rats that tenanted
her unclean sty. She was back in a moment, all servility, and wondering whether there was a
rent about me she might make bold to stitch. What a key to courtesy is gold, my masters! I
drove her out, and eager to conciliate me, she went at once.

With my own hands I effected in my doublet the slight repair of which it stood in need. Then
I donned my hat, and, cloak on shoulder, made my way below, calling for my horse as I descended.

I scorned the wine they proffered me ere I departed. That last night's draught had quenched
my thirst for ever of such grape-juice as it was theirs to tender. I urged the taverner to
hasten with my horse, and stood waiting in the squalid common-room, my mind divided 'twixt
impatience to resume the road to Pesaro and fresh speculations upon the means I was to adopt
to enter it and yet save my neck--for this was now become an obsessing problem.

As I stood waiting, there broke upon my ears the sound of an approaching cavalcade: the noise
of voices and the soft fall of hoofs upon the thick snow carpet. The company halted at the
door, and a loud, gruff voice was raised to cry:

"Locandiere! Afoot, sluggard!"

I stepped to the door, with very natural curiosity, a company of four mounted men escorting
a mule-litter, the curtains of which were drawn so that nothing might be seen of him or her
that rode within. Grooms were those four, as all the world might see at the first glance, and
the livery they wore was that of the noble House of Santafior--the holy white flower of the
quince being embroidered on the breast of their gabardines.

They bore upon them such signs of hard and hasty travelling that it was soon guessed they had
spent the night in the saddle. Their horses were in a foam of sweat; and the men themselves
were splashed with mud from foot to cap.

Even as I was going forward to regard them the taverner appeared, leading my horse by the bridle.
Now at an inn the traveller that arrives is ever of more importance than he that departs. At
sight of those horsemen, the taverner forgot my impatience, for he paused to bow in welcome
to the one that seemed the leader.

"Most Magnificent," said he to that liveried hind, "command me."

"We need a guide," the fellow answered with an ill grace.

"A guide, Illustrious?" quoth the host. "A guide?"

"I said a guide, fool," answered him the groom. "Heard you never of such animals? We need a
man who knows the hills, to lead us by the shortest road to Cagli."

The taverner shook his grey head stupidly. He bowed again until I fancied I could hear the
creak of his old joints.

"Here be no guides, Magnificent," he deplored. "Perhaps at Gualdo--"

"Animal," was the retort--for true courtesy commend me to a lacquey!--"it is not our wish to
pursue the road as far as Gualdo, else had we not stopped at this kennel of yours."

I scarce know what it can have been that moved me to act as I then did, for, in the truth,
the manner of that rascal of a groom was little prepossessing, and his master, I doubted, could
be little better that he left the fellow to hector it thus over that wretched tavern oaf. But
I stepped forward.

"Did you say that you were journeying to Cagli?" questioned I.

He eyed me sourly, suspicion writ athwart his round, ill-favoured face, But my motley was hidden
from his sight. My cloak, my hat and boots allowed naught of my true condition to appear, and
might as well have covered a lordling as a jester. Yet his inveterate surliness the rascal
could not wholly conquer.

"What may be the purpose of your question?" he growled.

"To serve your master, whoever he may be," I answered him serenely, "although it is a service
I do not press upon him. I, too, am journeying to Cagli, and like yourselves, I am in haste
and go the shorter way across the hills, with which I am well acquainted. If it so please you
to follow me your need of a guide may thus be satisfied."

It was the tone to take if I would be respected. Had I proposed that we should journey in company
I should not have earned me the half of the deference which was accorded to my haughtily granted
leave that they might follow me if they so chose.

With marked submission did he give me thanks in his master's name.

I mounted and set out, and at my heels came now the litter and its escort. Thus did we quit
the plain and breast the slopes, where the snow grew deeper and firmer underfoot as we advanced.
And as I went, still plaguing my mind to devise a means by which I might penetrate to the Court
of Pesaro, little did I dream that the matter was being solved for me--the solution having
begun with my offer to guide that company across the hills.

CHAPTER III. MADONNA PAOLA

We gained the heights in the forenoon, and there we dismounted and paused awhile to breathe
our horses ere we took the path that was to lead us down to Cagli. The air was sharp and cold,
for all that overhead was spread a cloudless, cobalt dome of sky, and the sun poured down its
light upon the wide expanse of snow-clad earth, of a whiteness so dazzling as to be hurtful
to the sight.

Hitherto I had ridden stolidly ahead, as unheeding of that following company as if I had been
unconscious of its existence. But now that we paused, their fat, white-faced leader, whose
name was Giacopo, approached me and sought to draw me into conversation. I yielded readily
enough, for I scented a mystery about that closely-curtained litter, and mysteries are ever
provoking to such a mind as mine. For all that it might profit me naught to learn who rode
there, and why with all this haste, yet these were matters, I confess, on which my curiosity
was aroused.

"Are you journeying beyond Cagli?" I asked him presently, in an idle tone.

He cocked his head, and eyed me aslant, the suspicion in his eyes confirming the existence
of the mystery I scented.

"Yes," he answered, after a pause. "We hope to reach Urbino before night. And you? Are you
journeying far?"

"That far, at least," I answered him, emulating the caution he had shown.

And then, ere more might pass between us, the leather curtains of the litter were sharply drawn
aside. At the sound I turned my head, and so far was the vision different from that which--for
no reason that I can give--I had expected, that I was stricken with surprise and wonder. A
lady--a very child, indeed--had leapt nimbly to the ground ere any of those grooms could offer
her assistance.

She was, I thought, the most beautiful woman that I had ever seen, and to one who had read
the famous work of Messer Firenzuola on feminine beauty it might seem, at first, that here
stood the incarnation of that writer's catalogue of womanly perfections. She was of a good
shape and stature, despite her tender years; her face was oval, delicately featured and of
an ivory pallor. Her eyes--blue as the heavens overhead--were not of the colour most approved
by Firenzuola, nor was her hair of the golden brown which that arbiter commends. Had Firenzuola
seen her, it may well be that he had altered or modified his views. She was sumptuously arrayed
in a loose-sleeved camorra of grey velvet that was heavy with costly furs; above the lenza
of fine linen on her head gleamed the gold thread of a jewelled net, and at her waist a girdle
of surpassing richness, all set with gems, glowed like a thing of fire in the bright sunshine.

She took a deep breath of the sharp, invigorating air, then looked about her, and espying me
in conversation with Giacopo she approached us across the gleaming snow.

"Is this," she inquired, and her sweet, melodious voice was a perfect match to the graceful
charm of her whole presence, "the traveller who so kindly consented to fill for us the office
of a guide?"

Giacopo answered briefly that I was that man.

"I am in your debt, sir," she protested, with an odd earnestness. "You do not know how great
a service you have rendered me. But if at any time Paola Sforza di Santafior may be able to
discharge this obligation, you shall find me very willing."

White-faced, black-browed Giacopo scowled at this proclamation of her identity.

I made her a low bow, and answered coldly, brusquely almost, for I hated the very name of Sforza,
and every living thing that bore it.

"Madonna, you overrate my service. It so chanced that I was travelling this way."

She looked more closely at me, as if she would have sought the reason of my churlish tone,
and I was strangely thankful that she could not see the motley worn by the muffled stranger
who confronted her. No doubt she accounted me a clown, whose nature inclined to surliness,
and so she turned away, telling Giacopo that as soon as the horses were breathed they might
push on.

"We must rest them yet awhile, Madonna," answered he, "if they are to carry us as far as Cagli.
Heaven send that we may obtain fresh cattle there, else is all lost."

Her frown proclaimed how much his words displeased her.

"You forget that if there are no horses for us, neither are there any for those others." And
she waved her hand towards the valley below and the road by which we had come. From this and
from what was said I gathered that they were a party of fugitives with pursuers at their heels.

"They have a warrant which we have not," was Giacopo's answer, gloomily delivered, "and they
will seize cattle where they can find it."

With a little gesture of impatience, more at his fears than at the peril that aroused them,
she moved away towards her litter.

"Your horse would be better for the loan of your cloak, sir stranger," said Giacopo to me.

I knew him to be right, but shrugged my shoulders.

"Better the horse should die of cold than I," I answered gruffly, and turning from him I set
myself to pace the snow and stir the blood that was chilling in my veins.

There was a beauty in the white, sunlit landscape spread before me that compelled my glance.
To some it might compare but ill with the luxuriant splendour that is of the vernal season;
but to me there was a wondrously impressive charm about that solemn, silent, virginal expanse
of snow, expressionless as the Sphinx, and imposing and majestic by virtue of that very lack
of expression. From Fabriano, at our feet, was spread to the east, the broad plain that lies
twixt the Esino and the Masone, as far as Mount Comero, which, in the distance, lifted its
round shoulder from the haze of sea. To the west the country lay under the same winding-sheet
of snow as far as eye might range, to the towers of distant Perugia, to the Lake Trasimeno--a
silver sheen that broke the white monotony--to Etruscan Cortona, perched like an eyrie on its
mountain top, and to the line of Tuscan hills, like heavy, low-lying clouds upon the blue horizon.

Lost was I in the contemplation of that scene when a cry, succeeded by a volley of horrid blasphemy,
drew my attention of a sudden to my companions. They stood grouped together, and their eyes
were on the road by which we had scaled those heights. Their first expression of loud astonishment
had been succeeded by an utter silence. I stepped forward to command a better view of what
they contemplated, and in the plain below, midway between Narni and the slopes, a mile or so
behind us, I caught a glitter as of a hundred mirrors in the sunshine. A company of some dozen
men-at-arms it was, riding briskly along the tracks we had left behind us in the snow. Could
these be the pursuers?

Even as I formed the question in my mind, the lady's silvery voice, behind me, put it into
words. She had drawn aside the curtains of her litter and she was leaning out, her eyes upon
those dancing points of brilliance.

"Madonna," cried one of her grooms, in a quaver of alarm, "they are Borgia soldiers."

"Your fear is father to that opinion," she answered scornfully. "How can you descry it at this
distance?"

Now, either God had given that knave an eagle's sight, or else, as she suggested, fear spurred
his imagination and begot his certainty of what he thought he saw.

"The leader's bannerol bears the device of a red bull," he answered promptly.

I thought she paled a little, and her brows contracted.

"In God's name, let us get forward, then!" cried Giacopo. "Orsu! To horse, knaves!"

No second bidding did they need. In the twinkling of an eye they were in the saddle, and one
of them had caught the bridle of the leading mule of the litter. Giacopo called to me to lead
the way with him, with no more ceremony than if I had been one of themselves. But I made no
ado. A chase is an interesting business, whatever your point of view, and if a greater safety
lies with the hunter, there is a keener excitement with the hunted.

Down that steep and slippery hillside we blundered, making for Cagli at a pace in which there
lay a myriad-fold more danger than could menace us from any party of pursuers. But fear was
spur and whip to the unreasoning minds of those poltroons, and so from the danger behind us
we fled, and courted a more deadly and certain peril in the fleeing. At first I sought to remonstrate
with Giacopo; but he was deaf to the wisdom that I spoke. He turned upon me a face which terror
had rendered whiter than its natural habit, white as the egg of a duck, with a hint of blue
or green behind it. I had, besides, an ugly impression of teeth and eyeballs.

"Death is behind us, sir," he snarled. "Let us get on."

"Death is more assuredly before you," I answered grimly. "If you will court it, go your way.
As for me, I am over-young to break my neck and be left on the mountain-side to fatten crows.
I shall follow at my leisure."

"Gesu!" he cried, through chattering teeth. "Are you a coward, then?"

The taunt would have angered me had his condition been other than it was; but coming from one
so possessed of the devil of terror, it did no more than provoke my mirth.

"Come on, then, valiant runagate," I laughed at him.

And on we went, our horses now plunging, now sliding down yard upon yard of moving snow, snorting
and trembling, more reasoning far than these rational animals that bestrode them. Twice did
it chance that a man was flung from his saddle, yet I know not what prayers Madonna may have
been uttering in her litter, to obtain for us the miracle of reaching the plain with never
so much as a broken bone.

Thus far had we come, but no farther, it seemed, was it possible to go. The horses, which by
dint of slipping and sliding had encompassed the descent at a good pace, were so winded that
we could get no more than an amble out of them, saving mine, which was tolerably fresh.

At this a new terror assailed the timorous Giacopo. His head was ever turned to look behind--unfailing
index of a frightened spirit; his eyes were ever on the crest of the hills, expecting at every
moment to behold the flash of the pursuers' steel. The end soon followed. He drew rein and
called a halt, sullenly sitting his horse like a man deprived of wit--which is to pay him the
compliment of supposing that he ever had wit to be deprived of.

Instantly the curtain-rings rasped, and Madonna Paola's head appeared, her voice inquiring
the reason of this fresh delay.

Sullenly Giacopo moved his horse nearer, and sullenly he answered her.

"Madonna, our horses are done. It is useless to go farther."

"Useless?" she cried, and I had an instance of how sharply could ring the voice that I had
heard so gentle. "Of what do you talk, you knave? Ride on at once."

"It is vain to ride on," he answered obdurately, insolence rising in his voice. "Another half-league--another
league at most, and we are taken."

"Cagli is less than a league distant," she reminded him. "Once there, we can obtain fresh horses.
You will not fail me now, Giacopo!"

"There will be delays, perforce, at Cagli," he reminded her, "and, meanwhile, there are these
to guide the Borgia sbirri." And he pointed to the tracks we were leaving in the snow.

She turned from him, and addressed herself to the other three.

"You will stand by me, my friends," she cried. "Giacopo, here, is a coward; but you are better
men." They stirred, and one of them was momentarily moved into a faint semblance of valour.

"We will go with you, Madonna," he exclaimed. "Let Giacopo remain behind, if so he will."

But Giacopo was a very ill-conditioned rogue; neither true himself, nor tolerant, it seemed,
of truth in others.

"You will be hanged for your pains when you are caught!" he exclaimed, "as caught you will
be, and within the hour. If you would save your necks, stay here and make surrender."

His speech was not without effect upon them, beholding which, Madonna leapt from the litter,
the better to confront them. The corners of her sensitive little mouth were quivering now with
the emotion that possessed her, and on her eyes there was a film of tears.

"You cowards!" she blazed at them, "you hinds, that lack the spirit even to run! Were I asking
you to stand and fight in defence of me, you could not show yourselves more palsied. I was
a fool," she sobbed, stamping her foot so that the snow squelched under it. "I was a fool to
entrust myself to you."

"Madonna," answered one of them, "if flight could still avail us, you should not find us stubborn.
But it were useless. I tell you again, Madonna, that when I espied them from the hill-top yonder,
they were but a half-league behind. Soon we shall have them over the mountain, and we shall
be seen."

"Fool!" she cried, "a half-league behind, you say; and you forget that we were on the summit,
and they had yet to scale it. If you but press on we shall treble that distance, at least,
ere they begin the descent. Besides, Giacopo," she added, turning again to the leader, "you
may be at fault; you may be scared by a shadow; you may be wrong in accounting them our pursuers."

The man shrugged his shoulders, shook his head, and grunted.

"Arnaldo, there, made no mistake. He told us what he saw."

"Now Heaven help a poor, deserted maid, who set her trust in curs!" she exclaimed, between
grief and anger.

I had been no better than those hinds of hers had I remained unmoved. I have said that I hated
the very name of Sforza; but what had this tender child to do with my wrongs that she should
be brought within the compass of that hatred? I had inferred that her pursuers were of the
House of Borgia, and in a flash it came to me that were I so inclined I might prove, by virtue
of the ring I carried, the one man in Italy to serve her in this extremity. And to be of service
to her, her winsome beauty had already inflamed me. For there was I know not what about this
child that seemed to take me in its toils, and so wrought upon me that there and then I would
have risked my life in her good service. Oh, you may laugh who read. Indeed, deep down in my
heart I laughed myself, I think, at the heroics to which I was yielding--I, the Fool, most
base of lacqueys--over a damsel of the noble House of Santafior. It was shame of my motley,
maybe, that caused me to draw my cloak more tightly about me as I urged forward my horse, until
I had come into their midst.

"Lady," said I bluntly and without preamble, "can I assist you? I have inferred your case from
what I have overheard."

All eyes were on me, gaping with surprise--hers no less than her grooms'.

"What can you do alone, sir?" she asked, her gentle glance upraised to mine.

"If, as I gather, your pursuers are servants of the House of Borgia, I may do something."

"They are," she answered, without hesitation, some eagerness, even, investing her tones.

It may seem an odd thing that this lady should so readily have taken a stranger into her confidence.
Yet reflect upon the parlous condition in which she found herself. Deserted by her dispirited
grooms, her enemies hot upon her heels, she was in no case to trifle with assistance, or to
despise an offer of services, however frail it might seem. With both hands she clutched at
the slender hope I brought her in the hour of her despair.

"Sir," she cried, "if indeed it lies in your power to help me, you could not find it in your
heart to be sparing of that power did you but know the details of my sorry circumstance."

"That power, Madonna, it may be that I have," said I, and at those words of mine her servants
seemed to honour me with a greater interest. They leaned forward on their horses and eyed me
with eyes grown of a sudden hopeful. "And," I continued, "if you will have utter faith in me,
I see a way to render doubly certain your escape."

She looked up into my face, and what she saw there may have reassured her that I promised no
more than I could accomplish. For the rest she had to choose between trusting me and suffering
capture.

"Sir," said she, "I do not know you, nor why you should interest yourself in the concerns of
a desolated woman. But, Heaven knows, I am in no case to stand pondering the aid you offer,
nor, indeed, do I doubt the good faith that moves you. Let me hear, sir, how you would propose
to serve me."

"Whence are you?" I inquired.

"From Rome," she informed me without hesitation, "to seek at my cousin's Court of Pesaro shelter
from a persecution to which the Borgia family is submitting me."

At her cousin's Court of Pesaro! An odd coincidence, this--and while I was pondering it, it
flashed into my mind that by helping her I might assist myself. Had aught been needed o strengthen
my purpose to serve her, I had it now.

"Yet," said I, surprise investing my voice, "at Pesaro there is Madonna Lucrezia of that same
House of Borgia."

She smiled away the doubt my words implied.

"Madonna Lucrezia is my friend," said she; "as sweet and gentle a friend as ever woman had,
and she will stand by me even against her own family."

Since she was satisfied of that, I waived the point, and returned to what was of more immediate
interest.

"And you fled," said I, "with these?" And I indicated her attendants. "Not content to leave
the clearest of tracks behind you in the snow, you have had yourself attended by four grooms
in the livery of Santafior. So that by asking a few questions any that were so inclined might
follow you with ease."

She opened wide her eyes at that. Oftentimes have I observed that it needs a fool to teach
some elementary wisdom to the wise ones of this world. I leapt from my saddle and stood in
the road beside her, the bridle on my arm.

"Listen now, Madonna. If you would make good your escape it first imports that you should rid
yourself of this valiant escort. Separate from it for a little while. Take you my horse--it
is a very gentle beast, and it wilt carry you with safety--and ride on, alone, to Cagli."

"Alone?" quoth she, in some surprise.

"Why, yes," I answered gruffly. "What of that? At the Inn of 'The Full Moon' ask for the hostess,
and tell her that you are to await an escort there, begging her, meanwhile, to place you under
her protection. She is a worthy soul, or else I do not know one, and she will befriend you
readily. But see to it that you tell her nothing of your affairs."

"And then?" she inquired eagerly.

"Then, wait you there until to-night, or even until to-morrow morning, for these knaves to
rejoin you to the end that you may resume your journey."

"But we--" began Giacopo. Scenting his protest, I cut him short.

"You four," said I, "shall escort me--for I shall replace Madonna in the litter--you shall
escort me towards Fabriano. Thus shall we draw the pursuit upon ourselves, and assure your
lady a clear road of escape."

They swore most roundly and with great circumstance of oaths that they would lend themselves
to no such madness, and it took me some moments to persuade them that I was possessed of a
talisman that should keep us all from harm.

"Were it otherwise, dolts, do you think I should be eager to go with you? Would any chance
wayfarer so wantonly imperil his neck for the sake of a lady with whom he can scarce be called
acquainted?"

It was an argument that had weight with them, as indeed, it must have had with the dullest.
I flashed my ring before their eyes.

"This escutcheon," said I, "is the shield that shall stand between us and danger from any of
the house that bears these arms."

Thus I convinced and wrought upon them until they were ready to obey me--the more ready since
any alternative was really to be preferred to their present situation. In danger they already
stood from those that followed as they well knew; and now it seemed to them that by obeying
one who was armed with such credentials, it might be theirs to escape that danger. But even
as I was convincing them, by the same arguments was I sowing doubts in the lady's subtler mind.

"You are attached to that house?" quoth she, in accents of mistrust. She wanted to say more.
I saw it in her eyes that she was wondering was there treachery underlying an action so singularly
disinterested as to justify suspicion.

"Madonna," said I, "if you would save yourself I implore that you will trust me. Very soon
your pursuers will be appearing on those heights, and then your chance of flight will be lost
to you. I will ask you but this: Did I propose to betray you into their hands, could I have
done better than to have left you with your grooms?"

Her face lighted. A sunny smile broke on me from her heavenly eyes.

"I should have thought of that," said she. And what more she would have added I put off by
urging her to mount.

Sitting the man's saddle as best she might--well enough, indeed, to fill us all with surprise
and admiration--she took her leave of me with pretty words of thanks, which again I interrupted.

"You have but to follow the road," said I, "and it will bring you straight to Cagli. The distance
is a short league, and you should come there safely. Farewell, Madonna!"

"May I not know," she asked at parting, "the name of him that has so generously befriended me?"

I hesitated a second. Then--"They call me Boccadoro," answered I.

"If your mouth be as truly golden as your heart, then are you well-named," said she. Then,
gathering her mantle about her, and waving me farewell, she rode off without so much as a glance
at the cowardly hinds who had failed her in the hour of her need.

A moment I stood watching her as she cantered away in the sunshine; then stepping to the litter,
I vaulted in.

"Now, rogues," said I to the escort, "strike me that road to Fabriano."

"I know you not, sir," protested Giacopo. "But this I know--that if you intend us treachery
you shall have my knife in your gullet for your pains."

"Fool!" I scorned him, "since when has it been worth the while of any man to betray such creatures
as are you? Plague me no more! Be moving, else I leave you to your coward's fate."

It was the tone best understood by hinds of their lily-livered quality. It quelled their faint
spark of mutiny, and a moment later one of those knaves had caught the bridle of the leading
mule and the litter moved forward, whilst Giacopo and the others came on behind at as brisk
a pace as their weary horses would yield. In this guise we took the road south, in the direction
opposite to that travelled by the lady. As we rode, I summoned Giacopo to my side.

"Take your daggers," I bade him, "and rip me that blazon from your coats. See that you leave
no sign about you to proclaim you of the House of Santafior, or all is lost. It is a precaution
you would have taken earlier if God had given you the wit of a grasshopper."

He nodded that he understood my order, and scowled his disapproval of my comment on his wit.
For the rest, they did my bidding there and then.

Having satisfied myself that no betraying sign remained about them, I drew the curtains of
my litter, and reclining there I gave myself up to pondering the manner in which I should greet
the Borgia sbirri when they overtook me. From that I passed on to the contemplation of the
position in which I found myself, and the thing that I had done. And the proportions of the
jest that I was perpetrating afforded me no little amusement. It was a burla not unworthy the
peerless gifts of Boccadoro, and a fitting one on which to close his wild career of folly.
For had I not vowed that Boccadoro I would be no more once the errand on which I travelled
was accomplished? By Cesare Borgia's grace I looked to--

A sudden jolt brought me back to the immediate present, and the realisation that in the last
few moments we had increased our pace. I put out my head.

"Giacopo!" I shouted. He was at my side in an instant. "Why are we galloping?"

"They are behind," he answered, and fear was again overspreading his fat face. "We caught a
glimpse of them as we mounted the last hill."

"You caught a glimpse of whom?" quoth I.

"Why, of the Borgia soldiers."

"Animal," I answered him, "what have we to do with them? They may have mistaken us for some
party of which they are in pursuit. But since we are not that party, let your jaded beasts
travel at a more reasonable speed. We do not wish to have the air of fugitives."

He understood me, and I was obeyed. For a half-hour we rode at a more gentle pace. That was
about the time they took to come up with us, still a league or so from Fabriano. We heard their
cantering hoofs crushing the snow, and then a loud imperious voice shouting to us a command
to stay. Instantly we brought up in unconcerned obedience, and they thundered alongside with
cries of triumph at having run their prey to earth.

I cast aside my hat, and thrust my motleyed head through the curtains with a jangle of bells,
to inquire into the reason of this halt. Whom my appearance astounded the more--whether the
lacqueys of Santafior, or the Borgia men-at-arms that now encircled us--I cannot guess. But
in the crowd of faces that confronted me there was not one but wore a look of deep amazement.

CHAPTER IV. THE COZENING OF RAMIRO

The cavalcade that had overtaken us proved to number some twenty men-at-arms, whose leader
was no less a person than Ramiro del' Orca--that same mountain of a man who had attended my
departure from the Vatican three nights ago. From the circumstance that so important a personage
should have been charged with the pursuit of the Lady of Santafior, I inferred that great issues
were at stake.

He was clad in mail and leather, and from his lance fluttered the bannerol bearing the Borgia
arms, which had announced his quality to Madonna's servants.

At sight of me his bloodshot eyes grew round with wonder, and for a little season a deathly
calm preceded the thunder of his voice.

"Sainted Host!" he roared at last. "What trickery may this be?" And sidling his horse nearer
he tore aside the curtains of my litter.

Out of faces pale as death the craven grooms looked on, to behold me reclining there, my cloak
flung down across my legs to hide my boots, and my motley garb of red and black and yellow
all revealed. I believe their astonishment by far surpassed the Captain's own.

"You are choicely met, Ser Ramiro," I greeted him. Then, seeing that he only stared, and made
no shift to speak: "Maybe," quoth I, "you'll explain why you detain me. I am in haste."

"Explain?" he thundered. "Sangue di Cristo! The burden of explaining lies with you. What make
you here?"

"Why," answered I, in tones of deep astonishment, "I am about the business of the Lord Cardinal
of Valencia, our master."

"Davvero?" he jeered. He stretched out a mighty paw, and took me by the collar of my doublet.
"Now, bethink you how you answer me, or there will be a fool the less in the world."

"Indeed, the world might spare more."

He scowled at my pleasantry. To him, apparently, the situation afforded no scope for philosophical
reflections.

"Where is the girl?" he asked abruptly.

"Girl?" quoth I. "What girl? Am I a mother-abbess, that you should set me such a question?"

Two dark lines showed between his brows. His voice quivered with passion.

"I ask you again--where is the girl?"

I laughed like one who is a little wearied by the entertainment provided for him.

"Here be no girls, Messer del' Orca," I answered him in the same tone. "Nor can I think what
this babble of girls portends."

My seeming innocence, and the assurance with which I maintained the expression of it, whispered
a doubt into his mind. He released me, and turned upon his men, a baffled look in his eyes.

"Was not this the party?" he inquired ferociously. "Have you misled me, beasts?

"It seemed the party, Illustrious," answered one of them.

"Do you dare tell me that 'it seemed'?" he roared, seeking to father upon them the blunder
he was beginning to fear that he had made. "But--What is the livery of these knaves?

"They wear none," someone answered him, and at that answer he seemed to turn limp and lose
his fierce assurance.

Then he bridled afresh.

"Yet the party, I'll swear, is this!" he insisted; and turning once more to me: "Explain, animal!"
he bade me in terrifying tones. "Explain, or, by the Host! be you ignorant or not, I'll have
you hanged."

I accounted it high time to take another tone with him. Hanging was a discomfort I was never
less minded to suffer.

"Draw nearer, fool," said I contemptuously, and at the epithet, so greatly did my audacity
amaze him, he mildly did my bidding.

"I know not what doubts are battling in your thick head, sir captain," I pursued. "But this
I know--that if you persist in hindering me, or commit the egregious folly of offering me violence,
you will answer for it, hereafter, to the Lord Cardinal of Valencia.

"I am going upon a secret mission"--and here I sank my voice to a whisper for his ears alone--"in
the service of the house that hires you, as for yourself you might easily have inferred. Behold."
And I revealed my ring. "Detain me longer at your peril."

He must have had some notion of the fact that I was journeying in Cesare Borgia's service,
and this coupled with the sight of that talisman effected in his manner a swift and wholesome
change. Had I, arrayed in the panoply of Mother Church, defied the devil, my victory could
not have been more complete.

He looked about him like a man whose wits have been scattered suddenly to the four winds of Heaven.

"But this litter," he mumbled, riveting his dazed eyes upon me, "and these four knaves--?"

"Tell me," I questioned, with sudden earnestness, "are you in quest of just such a party?"

"Aye that I am," he answered sharply, intelligence returning to his glance, inquiry burning in it.

"And would the men, peradventure, be wearing the livery of the House of Santafior?"

His quick assent came almost choked in a company of oaths.

"Why then, if that be your quarry, you are but wasting time. Such a party passed us at the
gallop about an hour ago. It would be an hour, would it not, Giacopo?"

"I should say an hour," answered the lacquey dully.

"In what direction?" came Ramiro's frenzied question. He doubted me no longer.

"In the direction of Fabriano I should say," I answered. "Although it may well be that they
were making for Sinigaglia. The road branches farther on."

He waited for no more. Without word of thanks for the priceless information I had given him,
he wheeled his horse, and shouted a hoarse command to his followers. A moment later and they
were cantering past us, the snow flying beneath their hoofs; within five minutes the last of
them had vanished round an angle of the road, and the only indication of the halt they had
made was the broad path of dirty brown where their horses had crushed the snow.

I have been an actor in few more entertaining comedies than the cozening of Ser Ramiro, and
a witness of nothing that afforded me at once so much relief and relish as his abrupt departure.
I sank back on the cushions of my litter, and gave myself over to a burst of full-souled laughter
which was interrupted ere it was half done by Giacopo, who had dismounted and approached me.

"You have fooled us finely," said he, with venom.

I quenched my laughter to regard him. Of what did he babble? Was he, and were his fellows,
too, so ungrateful as to bear a grudge against the man who had saved them?

"You have fooled us finely," he insisted in a louder voice.

"That, knave, is my trade," said I. "But it rather seems to me that it was Messer Ramiro del'
Orca whom I fooled."

"Aye," he answered querulously. "But what when he discerns how you have played upon him? What
when he discovers the trick by which you have thrown him off the scent? What when he returns?"

"Spare me," I begged, "I am but indifferently skilful at conjecture."

"Nay, but you shall answer me," he cried, livid with a passion that my bantering tone had quickened.

"Can it be that you are indeed curious to know what will befall when he returns?" I questioned
meekly.

"I am," he snorted, with an angry twist of the lips.

"It should be easy to gratify the morbid spirit of curiosity that actuates you. Remain here,
and await his return. Thus shall you learn."

"That will not I," he vowed.

"Nor I, nor I, nor I!" chorused his followers.

"Then, why plague me with unprofitable questions? What concern is it of ours how Messer del'
Orca shall vent his wrath when he is disillusioned. Your duty now is to rejoin your mistress.
Ride hard for Cagli. Seek her at the sign of 'The Full Moon,' and then away for Pesaro. If
you are brisk you will gain the shelter of the Lord Giovanni Sforza's fortress long before
Messer del' Orca again picks up the scent, if, indeed, he ever does so."

Giacopo laughed derisively till his fat body shook with the scornful mirth of him.

"By my faith, I'm done with the business," he cried, and the other three expressed a very hearty
agreement with that attitude.

"How done with it?" I asked.

"I shall make my way back across the hills and so retrace my steps to Rome. I'll risk my head
no more for any lady or any Fool."

"If you should ever chance to risk it for yourself," said I, with unmeasured scorn, "you'll
risk it for the greatest fool and the cowardliest rogue that ever shamed the name of man. And
your mistress? Is she to wait at Cagli until doomsday? If anywhere within the bulk of that
elephant's body there lurks the heart of a rabbit, you'll get you to horse and ride to the
help of that poor lady."

They resented my tone, and showed their resentment plainly. Messer Giacopo went the length
of raising his hand to me. But I am a man of amazing strength--amazing inasmuch as being slender
of shape I do not have the air of it. Leaping suddenly from the litter, I caught that miserable
vassal by the breast of his doublet, shook him once or twice, then tossed him headlong into
a drift of snow by the roadside.

At that they bared their knives and made shift to attack me. But I flung myself on to one of
the mules of the litter, and showing them the stout Pistoja dagger that I carried, I presented
with it a bold and truculent front, no whit intimidated by their numbers. Four to one though
they were, they thought better of it. A moment they stood off, consulting among themselves;
then Giacopo mounted, and with some mocking counsel as to how I should dispose of the litter
and the mules, they made off, no doubt, to find their way back to Rome. Giacopo, as I was afterwards
to discover, was Madonna Paola's purse-bearer, so that they would not lack for means.

Awhile I stayed there, cursing them for the white-livered cravens that they were, and thinking
of that poor child who had ridden on to Cagli, and who would await them in vain. There, on
the mule, I sat in the noontide sunlight, and pondered this, so absorbed in her affairs as
to have grown forgetful of my own. At last I resolved to ride on to Cagli alone, and inform
her that her men were fled.

There was no time to lose, for as that rogue Giacopo had said, Ramiro del' Orca might discover
at any moment how he had been tricked, and return hot-foot to find me and extort the truth
from me by such means as I had no stomach for enduring.

First, then, it was of moment thoroughly to efface our tracks, leaving no sign that might guide
Meser Ramiro to repair the error into which I had tricked him. Slowly, says the proverb, one
journeys far and safely. Slowly, then, did I consider! The escort was, no doubt, on its way
back to Rome, and if I could but rid myself of that cumbrous litter, Ser Ramiro would find
himself mightily hard put to it to again pick up the trail. I remembered a ravine a little
way behind, and I rode my mule back to that as fast as it would travel with the litter and
the other mule attached to it. Arrived there, I unharnessed the beasts on the very edge of
that shallow precipice. Then exerting all my strength, I contrived to roll the litter over.
Down that steep incline it went, over and over, gathering more snow to itself at every revolution,
and sinking at last into the drift at the bottom. There were signs enough to show its presence,
but those signs would hardly be read by any but the sharpest eyes, or by such as might be looking
for it in precisely such a position. I must trust to luck that it escaped the notice of Messer
Ramiro. But even if he did discover it, I did not think that it would tell him overmuch.

That done I resumed my hat and cloak--which I had retained--mounted once more, and urging the
other mule along, I proceeded thus as fast as might be for a half-league or so in the direction
of Cagli. That distance covered, again I halted. There was not a soul in sight. I stripped
one of the mules of all its harness, which I buried in the snow, behind a hedge, then I drove
the beast loose into a field. The peasant-owner of that land might conclude upon the morrow
that it had rained asses in the night.

And now I was able to travel at a brisker pace, and in an hour or so I had passed the point
where the road diverged, and I caught a glimpse of the four grooms, already high up in the
hills which they were crossing. Whether they saw me or not I do not know, but with a last curse
at their cowardice I put them from my mind, and cantered briskly on towards Cagli. It was a
short league farther, and in little more than half an hour, my mule half-dead, I halted at
the door of "The Full Moon."

Flinging my reins to the ostler, I strode into the inn, swaddled in my cloak, and called for
the hostess. The place was empty, as indeed all Cagli had seemed when I rode up. She came forward--a
woman with a brown, full face, and large kindly eyes--and I asked her whether a lady had arrived
there in safety that morning. At first she seemed mistrustful, but when I had assured her that
I was in that lady's service, she frankly owned that Madonna was safe in her own room. Thither
I allowed her to lead me, at once eager and reluctant. Eager with my own eyes to assure myself
of her perfect safety; reluctant that, since a man may not penetrate to a lady's chamber hat
on head, by uncovering I must disclose my shameful trade. Yet there was nothing for it but
a bold face, and as I mounted the stairs in the woman's wake, I told myself that I was doubly
a fool to be tormented by qualms of such a nature.

Hat in hand I followed the hostess into Madonna's room. The lady rose from the window-seat
to greet me, her face pale and her gentle eyes wearing an anxious look. At sight of my head
crowned with the crested, horned hood of folly, a frown of bewilderment drew her brows together,
and she looked more closely to see whether I was indeed the man who had befriended her that
morning in her extremity. In the eyes of the hostess I caught a gleam of recognition. She knew
me for the merry loon who had entertained her guests one night a fortnight since, when on my
way from Pesaro to Rome. But before she could give expression to this discovery of hers, the
lady spoke.

"Leave us awhile, my woman," she commanded. But I stayed the hostess as she was withdrawing.

"This lady," said I, "will need an escort of three or four stout knaves upon a journey that
she is going. She will be setting out as soon as may be."

"But what of my grooms?" cried the lady.

"Madonna," I informed her, "they have deserted you. That is the reason of my presence here.
You shall hear the story of it presently. Meanwhile, we must arrange to replace them." And
I turned again to the hostess.

She was standing in thought, a doubtful expression on her face. But as I looked at her she
shook her head.

"There is no such escort to be found to-day in Cagli," she made answer. "The town is all but
empty, and every lusty man is either gone on the pilgrimage to the Holy House of Loretto, or
else is at Pesaro for the Feast of the Epiphany."

It was in vain that I protested that a couple of knaves might surely be found. She answered
me that such as were in Cagli were there because they would not be elsewhere.

The lady's face grew clouded as she listened, for from my insistence she shrewdly inferred
that it imported to be gone.

"There is your ostler," quoth I at last. "He will do for one."

"He is the only man I have. My husband and my sons are gone to Pesaro."

"Yet spare us this one, and you shall be well paid his services."

But no bribe could tempt her to give way, and no doubt she was well-advised, for she contended
that there was work to be done such as was beyond her years and strength, and that if she sent
her ostler off, as well might she close her inn--a thing that was impossible.

Here, then, was an obstacle with which I had not reckoned. It was impossible to send the lady
off alone, to travel a distance of some ten leagues, and the most of it by night--for if she
would make sure of escaping, she must journey now without pause until she came to Pesaro.

And then, in a flash, it occurred to me that here lay the means, ready to my hand, by avail
of which I might boldly re-enter Pesaro despite my banishment, and discharge my errand to Lucrezia
Borgia. For, surely, considering the mission on which ostensibly I should be returning--as
the saviour and protector of his kinswoman--Giovanni Sforza could not enforce that ban against
me. Next I bethought me of the other aspect that the business wore. In fooling Ramiro I had
thwarted the Borgia ends; in rescuing Madonna Paola I had perhaps set at naught the Cardinal
of Valencia's aims. If so, what then? It would seem that because the lady's eyes were mild
and sweet, and because her beauty had so deeply wrought upon me, I had indeed fooled away my
chance of salvation from the life and trade that were grown hateful to me. For back to Rome
and Cesare Borgia I should dare go no more. Clearly I had burned my boats, and I had done it
almost unthinkingly, acting upon the good impulse to befriend this lady, and never reckoning
the cost down to its total. For all that the thing I had done, and what I might yet do, should
offer me the means I needed to enter Pesaro without danger to my neck, I did not see that I
was to derive great profit in the end--unless my profit lay in knowing that I had advanced
the ruin of Giovanni Sforza by delivering my letter to Lucrezia. That at any rate was enough
incentive clearly to define for me the line that I should take through this tangle into which
the ever-jesting Fates had thrust me.

I was still at my thoughts, still pondering this most perplexing situation, the hostess standing
silent by the door, when suddenly Madonna Paola spoke.

"Sir," said she, in faltering accents, "I--I have not the right to ask you, and I stand already
so deeply in your debt. Not a doubt of it, but it will have inconvenienced you to have journeyed
thus far to inform me of the flight of my grooms. Yet if you could--" She paused, timid of
proceeding, and her glance fell.

The hostess was all ears, struck by the respectful manner in which this very evidently noble
lady addressed a Fool. I opened the door for her.

"You may leave us now," said I. "I will come to you presently."

When she was gone I turned once more to the lady, my course resolved upon. My hate had conquered
my last doubt. What first imported was that I should get to Pesaro and to Madonna Lucrezia.

"You were about to ask me," said I, "that I should accompany you to Pesaro."

"I hesitated, sir," she murmured. I bowed respectfully.

"There was not the need, Madonna," I assured her. "I am at your service."

"But, Messer Boccadoro, I have no claim upon you."

"Surely," said I, "the claim that every distressed lady has upon a man of heart. Let us say
no more. It were best not to delay in setting out, although I can scarcely think that there
is any imminent danger from Ramiro del' Orca now."

"Who is he?" she inquired.

"I told her, whereupon--"

"Did they come up with you?" she asked. "What passed between you?"

Succinctly I related what had chanced, and how I had sent Ramiro on a fool's errand, adding
the particulars of the flight of her grooms, and of how I had rid myself of the litter and
the second mule. She heard me, her eyes sparkling, and at times she clapped her hands with
a glee that was almost childish, vowing that this was splendid, that was brave. I allayed what
little fears remained her by pointing out how effectively we had effaced our tracks, and how
vainly now Messer del' Orca might beat the country in quest of a lady in a litter, escorted
by four grooms.

And now she beset me with fresh thanks and fresh expressions of wonder at my generous readiness
to befriend her--a wonder all devoid of suspicion touching the single-mindedness of my purpose.
But I reminded her that we had little leisure to stand talking, and left her to make her preparations
for the journey, whilst I went below to see that my mule and her horse were saddled. I made
bold to pay the reckoning, and when presently she spoke of it, with flaming cheeks, and would
have pledged me a jewel, I bade her look upon it as a loan which anon she might repay me when
I had brought her safely to her kinsman's Court at Pesaro.

Thus, at last, we left Cagli, and took the road north, riding side by side and talking pleasantly
the while, ever concerning the matter of her flight and of her hopes of shelter at Pesaro,
which, being nearest to her heart, found readiest expression. I went wrapped in my cloak once
more, my head-dress hidden 'neath my broad-brimmed hat, so that the few wayfarers we chanced
on need not marvel to see a lady in such friendly intercourse with a Fool. And so dull was
I that day as not to marvel, myself, at such a state of things.

The sun was declining, a red ball of fire, towards the mountains on our left, casting a blood-red
glow upon the snow that everywhere encompassed us, as we cantered briskly on towards Fossombrone.

In that hour I fell to pondering, and I even caught myself hoping that Messer Ramiro del' Orca
might not chance upon the discovery of how egregiously I had fooled him. He was dull-witted
and slow at inference, and upon that I built the hope that he might fail to associate me with
Madonna Paola's elusion of his pursuit. Thus the chance might yet be mine of returning to Rome
and the honourable employment Cesare Borgia had promised me. If only that were so to fall out,
I might yet contrive to mend the wreckage of my life. I was returned, it seems, to the ways
of early youth, when we build our hopes of future greatness upon untenable foundations!

Great hopes and great ambitions rose within my breast that January evening, fired by the gentle
child that rode beside me. Fate had sent me to her aid that day, and I seemed to have acquired,
by virtue of that circumstance, a certain right in her. Had Fate no other favours for me in
her lap! I bethought me of the very House of Sforza, to which I had been so shamefully attached,
and of its humble source in that peasant, Giacomuzzo Attendolo, surnamed Sforza for his abnormal
strength of body, who rose to great and princely heights.

Assuredly I had the advantage of such an one, and were the chance but given me--

I went no further. Down in my heart I laughed to scorn my own wild musings. Cesare Borgia would
come to know--he must, whether Ramiro told him, or whether he inferred it for himself from
the account Ramiro must give him of our meeting--how I had thwarted him in one thing, whilst
I had served him in another. Fate was against me. I had fallen too low to ever rise again,
and no dreams indulged in a sunset hour, and inspired, perhaps, by a child who was beautiful
as one of the saints of God, would ever come to be realised by poor Boccadoro.

Night was falling as we clattered through the slippery streets of Fossombrone.

CHAPTER V. MADONNA'S INGRATITUDE

We stayed in Fossombrone little more than a half-hour, and having made a hasty supper we resumed
our way, giving out that we wished to reach Fano ere we slept. And so by the first hour of
night Fossombrone was a league or so behind us, and we were advancing briskly towards the sea.
Overhead a moon rode at the full in a clear sky, and its light was reflected by the snow, so
that we were not discomforted by any darkness. We fell, presently, into a gentler pace, for,
after all, there could be no advantage in reaching Pesaro before morning, and as we rode we
talked, and I made bold to ask her the cause of her flight from Rome.

She told me then that she was Madonna Paola Sforza di Santafior, and that Pope Alexander, in
his nepotism and his desire to make rich and powerful alliances for his family, had settled
upon her as the wife for his nephew, Ignacio Borgia. He had been emboldened to this step by
the fact that her only protector was her brother, Filippo di Santafior, whom they had sought
to coerce. It was her brother, who, seeing himself in a dangerous and unenviable position,
had secretly suggested flight to her, urging her to repair to her kinsman Giovanni Sforza at
Pesaro. Her flight, however, must have been speedily discovered and the Borgias, who saw in
that act a defiance of their supreme authority, had ordered her pursuit.

But for me, she concluded, that pursuits must have resulted in her capture, and once they had
her back in Rome, willing or unwilling, they would have driven her into the alliance by means
of which they sought to bring her fortune into their own house. This drew her into fresh protestations
of the undying gratitude she entertained towards me, protestations which I would have stemmed,
but that she persisted in them.

"It is a good and noble thing that you have done," said she, "and I think that Heaven must
have directed you to my aid, for it is scarce likely that in all Italy I should have found
another man who would have done so much."

"Why, what, after all, is this much that I have done?" I cried. "It is no less than my manhood
bade me do; no less than any other would have done seeing you so beset."

"Nay, that is more than I can ever think," she answered. "Who for the sake of an unknown would
have suffered such inconveniences as have you? Who would have returned as you have returned
to advise me of the defection of my grooms? Who, when other escort failed, would have gone
the length of journeying all this way to render a service that is beyond repayment? And, above
all, who for the sake of an unknown maid would have submitted to this travesty of yours?"

"Travesty?" quoth I, so struck by that as to interrupt her at last. "What travesty, Madonna?"

"Why, this garb of motley that you donned the better to fool my pursuers and that you still
wear in my poor service."

I turned in the saddle to stare at her, and in the moonlight I clearly saw her eyes meet mine.
So! that was the reason of her kindness and of the easy familiarity of her speech with me!
She deemed me some knight-errant who caracoled through Italy in quest of imperilled maidens
needing aid. Of a certainty she had gathered her knowledge of the world from the works of Messer
Bojardo, or perhaps from the "Amadis of Gaul" of Messer Bernardo Tasso. And, no doubt, she
thought that suits of motley grew on bushes by the roadside, whence those who had a fancy for
disguise might cull them.

Well, well, it were better she should know the truth at once, and choose such a demeanour as
she considered fitting towards a Fool. I had no stomach for the courtesies that were meant
for such a man as I was not.

"Madonna, you are in error," I informed her, speaking slowly. "This garb is no travesty. It
is my usual raiment."

There was a pause and I saw the slackening of her reins. No doubt, had we been afoot she would
have halted, the better to confront me.

"How?" she asked, and a new note, imperious and chill, was sounding already in her voice. "You
would not have me understand that you are by trade a Fool?

"Allowing that I am not a fool by birth, under what other circumstances, think you, I should
be likely to wear the garments of a Fool?"

"But this morning," she protested, after a brief pause, "when first I met you, you were not
so arrayed."

"I was arrayed even as I am now, in a cloak and hat and boots that hid my motley from such
undiscerning eyes as were yours and your grooms'--all taken up with your own fears as you then
were."

There was in the tail of that a sting, as I meant there should be, for the sudden haughtiness
of her tone was cutting into me. Was I less worthy of thanks because I was a Fool? Had I on
that account done less to serve and save her? Or was it that the action which, in a spurred
and armoured knight, had been accounted noble was deemed unworthy of thanks in a crested, motleyed
jester? It seemed, indeed, that some such reasoning she followed, for after that we spoke no
more until we were approaching Fano.

A many times before had I felt the shame of my ignoble trade, but never so acutely as at that
moment. It had seared my soul when Giovanni Sforza had told my story to his Court, ere he had
driven me from Pesaro with threats of hanging, and it had burned even deeper when later, Madonna
Lucrezia, upon entrusting me with her letter to her brother, had upbraided me with the supineness
that so long had held me in that vile bondage. But deepest of all went now the burning iron
of that disgrace. For my companion's silence seemed to argue that had she known my quality
she would have scorned the aid of which she had availed herself to such good purpose. If any
doubt of this had mercifully remained me, her next words would have served to have resolved
it. It was when the lights of Fano gleamed ahead; we were coming to a cross-roads, and I urged
the turning to the left.

"But Fano is in front," she remonstrated coldly.

"This way we can avoid the town and gain the Pesaro road beyond it," answered I, my tone as
cool as hers.

"Yet may it not be that at Fano I might find an escort?"

I could have cried out at her cruelty, for in her words I could but read my dismissal from
her service. There had been no more talk of an escort other than that which I afforded, and
with which at first she had been well content.

I sat my mule in silence for a moment. She had been very justly served had I been the vassal
that she deemed me, and had I borne myself in that character without consideration of her sex,
her station or her years. She had been very justly served had I wheeled about and left her
there to make her way to Fano, and thence to Pesaro, as best she might. She was without money,
as I knew, and she would have found in Fano such a reception as would have brought the bitter
tears of late repentance to her pretty eyes.

But I was soft-hearted, and, so, I reasoned with her; yet in a manner that was to leave her
no doubt of the true nature of her situation, and the need to use me with a little courtesy
for the sake of what I might yet do, if she lacked the grace to treat me with gratitude for
the sake of that which I had done already.

"Madonna," said I. "It were wiser to choose the by-road and forego the escort, since we have
dispensed with it so far. There are many reasons why a lady should not seek to enter Fano at
this hour of night."

"I know of none," she interrupted me.

"That may well be. Nevertheless they exist."

"This night-riding in so lonely a fashion is little to my taste," she told me sullenly. "I
am for Fano."

She had the mercy to spare me the actual words, yet her tone told me as plainly as if she had
uttered them that I could go with her or not, as I should choose. In silence, very sore at
heart, I turned my mule's head once more towards the lights of the town.

"Since you are resolved, so be it," was all my answer; and we proceeded.

No word did we exchange until we had entered the main street, when she curtly asked me which
was the best inn.

"'The Golden Fish,'" said I, as curtly, and to "The Golden Fish" we went.

Arrived there, Madonna Paola took affairs into her own hands. She dismounted, leaving the reins
with a groom, and entering the common-room she proclaimed her needs to those that occupied
it by loudly calling upon the landlord to find her an escort of three or four knaves to accompany
her at once to Pesaro, where they should be well rewarded by the Lord Giovanni, her cousin.

I had followed her in, and I ground my teeth at such an egregious piece of folly. Her hood
was thrown back, displaying the lenza of fine linen on her sable hair, and over this a net
of purest gold all set with jewels. Her camorra, too, was open, and in her girdle there were
gems for all to see. There were but a half-dozen men in the room. Two of these had a venerable
air--they may have been traders journeying to Milan--whilst a third, who sat apart, was a slender,
effeminate-looking youth. The remaining three were fellows of rough aspect, and when one of
them--a black-browed ruffian--raised his eyes and fastened them upon the riches that Madonna
Paola with such indifference displayed, I knew what was to follow.

He rose upon the instant, and stepping forward, he made her a low bow.

"Illustrious lady," said he, "if these two friends of mine and I find favour with you, here
is an escort ready found. We are stout fellows, and very faithful."

Faithful to their cut-throat trade, I made no doubt he meant.

His fellows now rose also, and she looked them over, giving herself the airs of having spent
her virgin life in judging men by their appearance. It was in vain I tugged her cloak, in vain
I murmured the word "wait" under cover of my hand. She there and then engaged them, and bade
them make ready to set out at once. One more attempt I made to induce her to alter her resolve.

"Madonna," said I, "it is an unwise thing to go a-journeying by night with three unknown men,
and of such villainous appearance. To me they seem no better than bandits."

We were standing apart from the others, and she was sipping a cup of spiced wine that the host
had mulled for her. She looked at me with a tolerant smile.

"They are poor men," said she. "Would you have them robed in velvet?"

"My quarrel is with their looks, Madonna, not their garments," I answered patiently. She laughed
lightly, carelessly; even, I thought, a trifle scornfully.

"You are very fanciful," said she, then added--"but if so be that you are afraid to trust yourself
in their company, why then, sir, I need bring you no farther out of the road that you were
following when first we met."

Did the child think that some jealousy actuated me, and prompted me to inspire her with mistrust
of my supplanters? She angered me. Yet now, more than ever was I resolved to journey with her.
Leave her at the mercy of those ruffians, whom in her ignorance she was mad enough to trust,
I could not--not even had she whipped me. She was so young, so frail and slight, that none
but a craven could have found it in his heart to have deserted her just then.

"If it please you Madonna," I answered smoothly, "I will make bold to travel on with you."

It may be that my even accents stung her; perhaps she read in them some measure of reproof
of the ingratitude that lay in her altered bearing towards me. Her eyes met mine across the
table, and seemed to harden as she looked. Her answer came in a vastly altered tone.

"Why, if you are bent that way, I shall be glad to have you avail yourself of my escort, Boccadoro."

I had suffered the scorn now of her speech, now of her silence, for some hours, but never was
I so near to turning on her as at that moment; never so near to consigning her to the fate
to which her headstrong folly was compelling her. That she should take that tone with me!

The violence of the sudden choler I suppressed turned me pale under her steady glance. So that,
seeing it, her own cheeks flamed crimson, and her eyes fell, as if in token that she realised
the meanness of her bearing. To some natures there can be nothing more odious than such a realisation,
and of those, I think, was she; for she stamped her foot in a sudden pet, and curtly asked
the host why there was such delay with the horses.

"They are at the door, Madonna," he protested, bowing as he spoke. "And your escort is already
waiting in the saddle."

She turned and strode abruptly towards the threshold. Over her shoulder she called to me:

"If you come with us, Boccadoro, you had best be brisk."

"I follow, Madonna," said I, with a grim relish, "so soon as I have paid the reckoning."

She halted and half turned, and I thought I saw a slight droop at the corners of her mouth.

"You are keeping count of what I owe you?" she muttered.

"Aye, Madonna," I answered, more grimly still, "I am keeping count." And I thought that my
wits were vastly at fault if that account were not to be greatly swelled ere Pesaro was reached.
Haply, indeed, my own life might go to swell it. I almost took a relish in that thought. Perhaps
then, when I was stiff and cold--done to death in her service--this handsome, ungrateful child
would come to see how much discomfort I had suffered for her sake.

My thoughts still ran in that channel as we rode out of Pesaro, for I misliked the way in which
those knaves disposed themselves about us. In front went Madonna Paola; and immediately behind
her, so that their horses' heads were on a level with her saddle-bow, one on each side, went
two of those ruffians. The third, whom I had heard them call Stefano, and who was the one who
had made her the offer of their services, ambled at my side, a few paces in the rear, and sought
to draw me into conversation, haply by way of throwing me off my guard.

Mistrust is a fine thing at times. "Forewarned is forearmed," says the proverb, and of all
forewarnings there is none we are more likely to heed than our own mistrust; for whereas we
may leave unheeded the warnings of a friend, we seldom leave unheeded the warnings of our spirit.

And so, while my amiable and garrulous Ser Stefano engaged me in pleasant conversation--addressing
me ever as Messer the Fool, since he knew me not by name--I wrapped my cloak about me, and
under cover of it kept my fingers on the hilt of my stout Pistoja dagger, ready to draw and
use it at the first sign of mischief. For that sign I was all eyes, and had I been Argus himself
I could have kept no better watch. Meanwhile I plied my tongue and maintained as merry a conversation
with Ser Stefano as you could wish to hear, for he seemed a ready-witted knave of a most humorous
turn of fancy--God rest his rascally soul! And so it came to pass that I did by him the very
thing he sought to do by me; I lulled him into a careless confidence.

At last the sign I had been waiting for was given. I saw it as plainly as if it had been meant
for me; I believe I saw it before the man for whom it was intended, and but for my fears concerning
Madonna Paola, I could have laughed outright at their clumsy assurance. The man who rode on
Madonna's right turned in his saddle and put up his hand as if to beckon Stefano. I was regaling
him with one of the choicest of Messer Sacchetti's paradoxes, gurgling, myself, at the humour
of the thing I told. I paid no heed to the sign. I continued to expound my quip, as though
we had the night before us in which to make its elusive humour clear. But out of the tail of
my eye I watched my good friend Stefano, and I saw his right hand steal round to the region
of his back where I knew his dagger to be slung. Yet was I patient. There should be no blundering
through an excessive precipitancy. I talked on until I saw that my suspicions were amply realised.
I caught the cold gleam of steel in the hand that he brought back as stealthily as he had carried
it to his poniard. Sant' Iddio! What a coward he was for all his bulk, to go so slyly about
the business of stabbing a poor, helpless, defenceless Fool.

"But Sacchetti makes his point clear," I babbled on, most blandly; "almost as clear, as comprehensive
and as penetrating as should be to you the point of this." And with a swift movement I swung
half-round in my saddle, and sank my dagger to the hilt in his side even as he was in the act
of raising his.

He made no sound beyond the faintest gurgle--the first vowel of a suddenly choked word of wonder
and surprise. He rocked a second in his saddle, then crashed over, and lay with arms flung
wide, like a huge black crucifix, upon the white ground. At the same moment a piercing scream
broke from Madonna Paola.

I tremble still to think what might have been her fate had not those ruffians who had laid
hands on her fallen into the sorry error of holding their single adversary too lightly. They
heard the thud of the gallant Stefano's fall, and they never doubted that mine was the body
that had gone down. They heard the rapid hoof-beats of my approach, yet, they never turned
their heads to ascertain whether they might not be mistaken in their firm conviction that it
was Messer Stefano who was joining them.

I kissed my blade for luck, and drove it straight and full into the back of the fellow on Madonna
Paola's right. He cried out, essayed to turn in his saddle that he might deal with this unlooked-for
assailant, then, overcome, he lurched forward on to the withers of his horse and thence rolled
over, and was dragged away at the gallop, his foot caught in a stirrup, by the suddenly startled
brute he rode.

So far things had gone with an amazing and delightful ease. If only the last of them had had
the amiability to be intimidated by my prowess and to have taken to his heels, I might have
issued from that contest with the unscathed glory of a very Mars. But from his throat there
came, in answer to his comrade's cry, a roar of rage. He fell back from Madonna, and wheeled
his horse to come at me, drawing his sword as he advanced.

"Ride on, Madonna," I shouted. "I will rejoin you presently."

The fellow laughed, a mighty ugly and discomposing laugh, which may or may not have shaken
her faith in my promise to rejoin her. It certainly went near to shaking mine. However, she
displayed a presence of mind full worthy of the haughtiness and ingratitude of which she had
showed herself capable. She urged her mule forward, and, so, left him a clear road to attack
me. I made a mistake then that went mighty near to costing me my life. I paused to twist my
cloak about my left arm intending to use it as a buckler. Had I but risked the arm itself,
all unprotected, in that task, it may well be that it had served me better. As it was, my preparations
were far from complete when already he was upon me, with the result that the waving slack of
my cloak was in my way to hamper and retard the movements of my arm.

His sword leapt at me, a murderous blue-white flash of moonlit steel. I put up my half-swaddled
arm to divert the thrust, holding my dagger ready in my right, and gripping my mule with all
the strength of my two knees. I caught the blade, it is true, and turned aside the stroke intended
for my heart. But the slack of the cloak clung to the neck of my mule, so that I could not
carry my arm far enough to send his point clear of my body. It took me in the shoulder, stinging
me, first icy cold then burning hot, as it went tearing its way through. For just a second
was I daunted, more at knowing myself touched than by the actual pain. Then I flung my whole
body forward to reach him at the close quarters to which he had come, and I buried my dagger
in his breast, high up at the base of his dirty throat.

The force of the blow carried me forward, even as it bore him backward; and so, with his sword-blade
in my shoulder, and my dagger where I had planted it, we hurtled over together and lay a second
amidst what seemed a forest of equine legs. Then something smote me across the head, and I
was knocked senseless.

Conceive me, if you can, a sorrier, or more useless thing. A senseless Fool!

CHAPTER VI. FOOL'S LUCK

My return to consciousness seemed to afford me such sensations as a diver may experience as
he rises up and up through the depth of water he has plumbed--or as a disembodied soul may
know in its gentle ascent towards Heaven. Indeed the latter parallel may be more apt. For through
the mist that suffused my senses there penetrated from overhead a voice that seemed to invoke
every saint in the calendar on the behalf of some poor mortal. A very litany of intercession
was it, not quite, it would appear, devoid of self-seeking.

"Sainted Virgin, restore him! Good St. Paul, who wert done to death with a sword, let him not
perish, else am I lost indeed!" came the voice.

I took a deep breath, and opened my eyes, whereat the voice cried out gladly that its intercessions
had been heard, and I knew that it was on my behalf that the saints of Heaven had been disturbed
in their beatific peace. My head was pillowed in a woman's lap, and it took me a moment or
two to realise that that lap was Madonna Paula's, as was hers the voice that had reached my
awakening senses, the voice that now welcomed me back to life in terms that were very different
from the last that I could remember her having used towards me.

"Thank God, Messer Boccadoro!" she exclaimed, as she bent over me.

Her face was black with shadow, but in her voice I caught a hint of tears, and I wondered whether
they were shed on my behalf or on her own.

"I do!" I answered fervently. "Have you any notion of what hour it is?"

"None," she sighed. "You have been so long unconscious that I was losing hope of ever hearing
your voice again."

I became aware of a dull ache on the right side of my head. I put up my hand, and withdrew
it moist. She saw the action.

"One of the horses must have struck you with its hoof after you fell," she explained. "But
I was more concerned for your other wound. I withdrew the sword with my own hands."

That other wound she spoke of was now making itself felt as well. It was a gnawing, stinging
pain in the region of my left shoulder, which seemed to turn me numb to the waist on that side
of my body, and render powerless my arm. I questioned her touching my three adversaries, and
she silently pointed to three black masses that lay some little distance from us in the snow.

"Not all dead?" I cried.

"I do not know," she answered, with a sob. "I have not dared go near them. They frighten me.
Mother of Heaven, what a night of horror it has been! Oh, that I had taken your advice, Messer
Boccacloro!" she exclaimed in a passion of self-reproach.

I laughed, seeking to soften her distress.

"To me it seems, that whether you would or not, you have been compelled to take it, after all.
Those fellows lie there harmless enough, and I am still--as I urged that I should be--your
only escort."

"A nobler protector never woman had," she assured me, and I felt a hot pearl of moisture fail
upon my brow.

"You were wise, at least, to journey with a Fool," I answered her. "For fools are proverbially
lucky folk, and to-night has proven me of all fools the luckiest. But, Madonna," I suggested,
in a different tone, "should we not be better advised to attempt to resume, this interesting
journey of ours? We do not seem to lack horses?"

A couple of nags were standing by the road-side, together with our mules, and I was afterwards
to learn that she, herself, it was had tethered them.

"It must be yet some three leagues to Pesaro," I added, "and if we journey slowly, as I fear
me that we must, we should arrive there soon after daybreak."

"Do you think that you can stand?" she asked, a hopeful ring in her voice.

"I might essay it," answered I, and I would have done so, there and then, but that she detained me.

"First let me see to this hurt in your head," said she. "I have been bathing it with snow while
you were unconscious."

She gathered a fresh handful as she spoke, and, very tenderly she wiped away the blood. Then
from her own head she took the fine linen lanza that she wore, and made a bandage--a bandage
sweet with the faint fragrance of marsh-mallow--and bound it about my battered skull. When
that was done she turned her attention to my shoulder. This was a more difficult matter, and
all that we could do was to attempt to stanch the blood, which already had drenched my doublet
on that side. To this end she passed a long scarf under my arm, and wound it several times
about my shoulder.

At last her gentle ministrations ended, I sought to rise. A dizziness assailed me scarce was
I on my feet, and it is odds I had fallen back, but that she caught and steadied me.

"Mother in Heaven! You are too weak to ride," she exclaimed. "You must not attempt it."

"Nay, but I will," I answered, with more stoutness of tone than I felt of body, and notwithstanding
that my knees were loosening under my weight. "It is a faintness that will pass."

If ever man willed himself to conquer weakness, that did I then, and with some measure of success--or
else it was that my faintness passed of itself. I drew away from her support, and straightening
myself, I crossed to where the animals were tethered, staggering at first, but presently with
a surer foot. She followed me, watching my steps with as much apprehension as a mother may
feel when her first-born makes his earliest attempts at walking, and as ready to spring to
my aid did I show signs of stumbling. But I kept up, and presently my senses seemed to clear,
and I stepped out more surely.

Awhile we stood discussing which of the animals we should take. It was my suggestion that we
should ride the horses but she wisely contended that the mules would prove the more convenient
if the slower. I agreed with her, and then, ere we set out, I went to see to my late opponents.
One of them--Ser Stefano--was cold and stiff; the other two still lived, and from the nature
of their wounds seemed likely to survive, if only they were not frozen to death before some
good Samaritan came upon them.

I knelt a moment to offer up a prayer for the repose of the soul of him that was dead, and
I bound up the wounds of the living as best I could, to save them greater loss of blood. Indeed,
had it lain in my power, I would have done more for them. But in what case was I to render
further aid? After all, they had brought their fate upon themselves, and I doubt not they were
paying a score that they had heaped up heavily in the past.

I went back to the mules, and, despite my remonstrances, Madonna Paola insisted upon aiding
me to mount, urging me to have a care of my wound, and to make no violent movement that should
set it bleeding again. Then she mounted too, nimble as any boy that ever robbed an orchard,
and we set out once more. And now it was a very contrite and humbled lady that rode with me,
and one that was at no pains to dissemble her contrition, but, rather, could speak of nothing else.

It moved me strangely to have her suing pardon from me, as though I had been her equal instead
of the sometime jester of the Court of Pesaro, dismissed for an excessive pertness towards
one with whom his master curried favour.

And presently, as was perhaps but natural after all that she had witnessed, she fell to questioning
me as to how it came to pass that one of such wit, resource and courage should follow the mean
calling to which I had owned. In answer I told her without reservation the full story of my
shame. It was a thing that I had ever most zealously kept hidden, as already I have shown.

To be a Fool was evil enough in all truth; but to let men know that under my motley was buried
the identity of a man patrician-born was something infinitely worse. For, however vile the
trade of a Fool may be, it is not half so vile for a low-born clod who is too indolent or too
sickly to do honest work as for one who has accepted it out of a half-cowardice and persevered
in it through very sloth.

Yet on that night and after all that had chanced, no matter how my cheeks might burn in the
gloom as I rode beside her, I was glad for once to tell that ignominious story, glad that she
should know what weight of circumstance had driven me to wear my hideous livery.

But since my story dealt oddly with that Lord of Pesaro, the kinsman whose shelter she was
now upon her way to seek, I must first assure myself that the candour to which I was disposed
would not offend.

"Does it happen, Madonna," I inquired, "that you are well acquainted with the Lord of Pesaro?"

"Nay; I have never seen him," answered she. "When he was at Rome, a year ago in the service
of the Pope, I was at my studies in the convent. His father was my father's cousin, so that
my kinship is none so near. Why do you ask?"

"Because my story deals with him, Madonna, and it is no pretty tale. Not such a narrative as
I should choose wherewith to entertain you. Still, since you have asked for it, you shall hear it.

"It was in the year that Giovanni Sforza, Lord of Pesaro, celebrated his nuptials with the
Lady Lucrezia Borgia--three years ago, therefore--that one morning there rode into the courtyard
of his castle of Pesazo a tall and lean young man on a tall and lean old horse. He was garbed
and harnessed after a fashion that proclaimed him half-knight, half-peasant, and caused the
castle lacqueys to eye him with amusement and greet him with derision. Lacqueys are great arbiters
of fashion.

"In a loud, imperious voice this cockerel called for Giovanni, Lord of Pesaro, whereupon, resenting
the insolence of his manner, the men-at-arms would have driven him out without more ado. But
it chanced that from one of the windows of his stronghold the tyrant espied his odd visitor.
He was in a mood that craved amusement, and marvelling what madman might be this, he made his
way below and bade them stand back and let me speak--for I, Madonna, was that lean young man.

"'Are you,' quoth I, 'the Lord of Pesaro?'

"He answered me courteously that he was, whereupon I did my errand to him. I flung my gauntlet
of buffalo-hide at his feet in gage of battle.

"'Your father,' said I, 'Costanzo of Pesaro, was a foul brigand, who robbed my father of his
castle and lands of Biancomonte, leaving him to a needy and poverty-stricken old age. I am
here to avenge upon your father's son my father's wrongs; I am here to redeem my castle and
my lands. If so be that you are a true knight, you will take up the challenge that I fling
you, and you will do battle with me, on horse or foot, and with whatsoever arms you shall decree,
God defending him that has justice on his side.'

"Knowing the world as I know it now, Madonna," I interpolated, "I realise the folly of that
act of mine. But in those days my views belonged to a long departed age of chivalry, of which
I had learnt from such books as came my way at Biancomonte, and which I believed was the life
of to-day in the world of men. It was a thing which some tyrants would have had me broken on
the wheel. But Giovanni Sforza never so much as manifested anger. There was a complacent smile
on his white face and his fingers toyed carelessly with his beard.

"I waited patiently, very haughty of mien and very fierce at heart, and when the amusement
began to fade from his eyes, I begged that he would deliver me his answer.

"'My answer,' quoth he, 'is that you get you back to the place from whence you came, and render
thanks to God on your knees every morning of the life I am sparing you that Giovanni Sforza
is more entertained than affronted by your frenzy.'

"At his words I went crimson from chin to brow.

"'Do you disdain me?' I questioned, choking with rage. He turned, with a shrug and a laugh,
and bade one of his men to give this cavalier his glove, and conduct him from the castle. Several
that had stood at hand made shift to obey him, whereat I fell into such a blind, unreasoning
fury that incontinently I drew my sword, and laid about me. They were many, I was but one;
and they were not long in overpowering me and dragging me from my horse.

"They bound me fast, and Giovanni bade them let me have a priest, then get me hanged without
delay. Had he done that, the world being as it is, perhaps none could blame him. But he elected
to spare my life, yet on such terms as I could never have accepted had it not been for the
consideration of my poor widowed mother, whom I had left in the hills of Biancomonte whilst
I went forth to seek my fortune--such was the tale I had told her. I was her sole support,
her only hope in life; and my death must have been her own, if not from grief, why, then from
very want. The thought of that poor old woman crushed my spirit as I sat in durance waiting
for my end, and when the priest came, whom they had sent to shrive me, he found me weeping,
which he took to argue a contrite heart. He bore the tale of it to Giovanni, and the Lord of
Pesaro came to visit me in consequence, and found me sorely changed from my furious mood of
some hours earlier.

"I was a very coward, I own; but it was for my mother's sake. If I feared death, it was because
I bethought me of what it must mean to her."

"At sight of Giovanni I cast myself at his feet, and with tears in my eyes and in heartrending
tones, bespeaking a humility as great as had been my erstwhile arrogance, I begged my life
of him. I told him the truth--that for myself I was not afraid to die, but that I had a mother
in the hills who was dependent on me, and who must starve if I were thus cut off.

"He watched me with his moody eyes, a saturnine smile about his lips. Then of a sudden he shook
with a silent mirth, whose evil, malicious depth I was far indeed from suspecting. He asked
me would I take solemn oath that if he spared my life I would never again raise my hand against
him. That oath I took with a greediness born of my fear of the death that was impending.

"'You have been wise,' said he,' and you shall have your life on one condition--that you devote
it to my service.'

"'Even that will I do,' I answered readily. He turned to an attendant, and ordered him to go
fetch a suit of motley. No word passed between us until that man returned with those garish
garments. Then Giovanni smiled on me in his mocking, infernal way.

"'Not that,' I cried, guessing his purpose.

"'Aye, that,' he answered me; 'that or the hangman's noose. A man who could devise so monstrous
a jest as was your challenge to the Tyrant of Pesaro should be a merry fellow if he would.
I need such a one. There are two Fools at my Court, but they are mere tumblers, deformed vermin
that excite as much disgust as mirth. I need a sprightlier man, a man of some learning and
more drollery; such a man, in short, as you would seem to be.'

"I recoiled in horror and disgust. Was this his clemency--this sparing of my life that he might
submit it to an eternal shame? For a moment my mother was forgotten. I thought only of myself,
and I grew resolved to hang.

"'When you spoke of service,' said I 'I thought of service of an honourable sort.'

"'The service that I offer you is honourable,' he said, with cold amusement. 'Indeed, remembering
that your life was forfeit, you should account yourself most fortunate. You shall be well housed
and well fed, you shall wear silk and lie in fine linen, on condition that you are merry. If
you prove dull our castellan shall have you whipped--for such a one as you could not be dull
save out of sullenness, of which we shall seek to cure you if you show signs of it.'

"'I will not do it,' I cried, 'it were too base.'

"'My friend,' he answered me, 'the choice is yours. You shall have an hour in which to resolve
what you will do. When they open this door for you at sunset, come forth clad as you are, and
you shall hang. If you prefer to live, then don me that robe and cap of motley, and, on condition
that you are merry, life is yours.'"

I paused a moment. Our horses were moving slowly, for the tale engrossed us both, me in the
telling, her in the hearing. Presently--

"I need not harass you with the reflections that were mine during that hour, Madonna. Rather
let me ask you: how should a man so placed make choice to be full worthy of the office proffered
him?"

There was a moment's silence while she pondered.

"Why," she answered me, at last, "a fool I take it would have chosen death: the wise man life,
since it must hold the hope of better days."

"And since it asked a man of wit to play the fool to such a tune as the Lord Giovanni piped,
that wise young man chose life and folly. But was that choice indeed so wise? The story ends
not there. That young men whose early life had been one of hardships found himself, indeed,
well-housed and fed as the Lord Giovanni had promised him, and so he fell into a slothful spirit,
and was content to play the Fool for bed and board.

"There were times when conscience knocked loudly at my heart, and I was tortured with shame
to see myself in the garb of Fools, the sport of all, from prince to scullion. But in the three
years that I had dwelt at Pesaro my identity had been forgotten by the few who had ever been
aware of it. Moreover, a court is a place of changes, and in three years there had been such
comings and goings at the Court of Giovanni Sforza, that not more than one or two remained
of those that had inhabited it when first I entered on my existence there. Thus had my position
grown steadily more bearable. I was just a jester and no more, and so, in a measure--though
I blush to say it--I grew content. I gathered consolation from the fact that there were not
any who now remembered the story of my coming to Pesaro, or who knew of the cowardliness I
had been guilty of when I consented to mask myself in the motley and assume the name of Boccadoro.
I counted on the Lord Giovanni's generosity to let things continue thus, and, meanwhile, I
provided for my mother out of the vails that were earned me by my shame. But there came a day
when Giovanni in evil wantonness of spirit chose to make merry at the Fool's expense.

"To be held up to scorn and ridicule is a part of the trade of such as I, and had it been just
Boccadoro whom Giovanni had exposed to the derision of his Court, haply I had been his jester
still. But such sport as that would have satisfied but ill the deep-seated malice of his soul.
The man whom his cruel mockery crucified for their entertainment was Lazzaro Biancomonte, whom
he revealed to them, relating in his own fashion the tale I have told you.

"At that I rebelled, and I said such things to him in that hour, before all his Court, as a
man may not say to a prince and live. Passion surged up in him, and he ordered his castellan
to flog me to the bone--in short, to slay me with a whip.

"From that punishment I was saved by the intercessions of Madonna Lucrezia. But I was driven
out of Pesaro that very night, and so it happens that I am a wanderer now."

At that I left it. I had no mind to tell her what motives had impelled Lucrezia Borgia to rescue
me, nor on what errand I had gone to Rome and was from Rome returning.

She had heard me in silence, and now that I had done, she heaved a sigh, for which gentle expression
of pity out of my heart I thanked her. We were silent, thereafter, for a little while. At length
she turned her head to regard me in the light of the now declining moon.

"Messer Biancomonte," said she, and the sound of the old name, falling from her lips, thrilled
me with a joy unspeakable, and seemed already to reinvest me in my old estate, "Messer Biancomonte,
you have done me in these four-and-twenty hours such service as never did knight of old for
any lady--and you did it, too, out of the most disinterested and noble of motives, proving
thereby how truly knightly is that heart of yours, which, for my sake, has all but beat its
last to-night. You must journey on to Pesaro with me despite this banishment of which you have
told me. I will be surety that no harm shall come to you. I could not do less, and I shall
hope to do far more. Such influence as I may prove to have with my cousin of Pesaro shall be
exerted all on your behalf, my friend; and if in the nature of Giovanni Sforza there be a tithe
of the gratitude with which you have inspired me, you shall, at least, have justice, and Biancomonte
shall be yours again."

I was silent for a spell, so touched was I by the kindness she manifested me--so touched, indeed,
and so unused to it that I forgot how amply I had earned it, and how rudely she had used me
ere that was done.

"Alas!" I sighed. "God knows I am no longer fit to sit in the house of the Biancomonte. I am
come too low, Madonna."

"That Lazzaro, after whom you are named," she answered, "had come yet lower. But he lived again,
and resumed his former station. Take your courage from that."

"He lived not at the mercy of Giovanni of Pesaro," said I.

There was a fresh pause at that. Then--"At least," she urged me, "you'll come to Pesaro with me?"

"Why yes," said I. "I could not let you go alone." And in my heart I felt a pang of shame,
and called myself a cur for making use of her as I was doing to reach the Court of Giovanni Sforza.

"You need fear no consequences," she promised me. "I can be surety for that at least."

In the east a brighter, yellower light than the moon's began to show. It was the dawn, from
which I gathered that it must be approaching the thirteenth hour. Pesaro could not be more
than a couple of leagues farther, and, presently, when we had gained the summit of the slight
hill we were ascending, we beheld in the distance a blurred mass looming on the edge of the
glittering sea. A silver ribbon that uncoiled itself from the western hills disappeared behind
it. That silvery streak was the River Foglia; that heap of buildings against the landscape's
virgin white, the town of Pesaro.

Madonna pointed to it with a sudden cry of gladness. "See Messer Biancomonte, how near we are.
Courage, my friend; a little farther, and yonder we have rest and comfort for you."

She had need, in truth, to cry me "Courage!" for I was weakening fast once more. It may have
been the much that I had talked, or the infernal jolting of my mule, but I was losing blood
again, and as we were on the point of riding forward my senses swam, so that I cried out; and
but for her prompt assistance I might have rolled headlong from my saddle.

As it was, she caught me about the waist as any mother might have done her son. "What ails
you?" she inquired, her newly-aroused anxiety contrasting sharply with her joyous cry of a
moment earlier. "Are you faint, my friend?" It needed no confession on my part. My condition
was all too plain as I leaned against her frail body for support.

"It is my wound," I gasped. Then I set my teeth in anguish. So near the haven, and to fail
now! It could not be; it must not be. I summoned all my resolution, all my fortitude; but in
vain. Nature demanded payment for the abuses she had suffered.

"If we proceed thus," she ventured fearfully, "you leaning against me, and going at a slow
pace--no faster than a walk--think you, you can bear it? Try, good Messer 'Biancomonte."

"I will try, Madonna," I replied. "Perhaps thus, and if I am silent, we may yet reach Pesaro
together. If not--if my strength gives out--the town is yonder and the day is coming. You will
find your way without me."

"I will not leave you, sir," she vowed; and it was good to hear her.

"Indeed, I hope you may not know the need," I answered wearily. And thus we started on once more.

Sant' Iddio! What agonies I suffered ere the sun rose up out of the sea to flood us with his
winter glory! What agonies were mine during those two hours or so of that last stage of our
eventful journey! "I must bear up until we are at the gates of Pesaro," I kept murmuring to
myself, and, as if my spirit were inclined to become the servant of my will and hold my battered
flesh alive until we got that far, Pesaro's gates I had the joy of entering ere I was constrained
to give way.

Dimly I remember--for very dim were my perceptions growing--that as we crossed the bridge and
passed beneath the archway of the Porta Romana, the officer turned out to see who came. At
sight of me be gaped a moment in astonishment.

"Boccadoro?" he exclaimed, at last. "So soon returned?"

"Like Perseus from the rescue of Andromeda," answered I, in a feeble voice, "saving that Perseus
was less bloody than am I. Behold the Madonna Paola Sforza di Santafior, the noble cousin of
our High and Mighty Lord."

And then as if my task being done, I were free to set my weary brain to rest, my senses grew
confused, the officer's voice became a hum that gradually waxed fainter as I sank into what
seemed the most luxurious and delicious sleep that ever mortal knew.

Two days later, when I was conscious once more, I learned what excitement those words of mine
had sown, with what honours Madonna Paola was escorted to the Castle, and how the citizens
of Pesaro turned out upon hearing the news which ran like fire before us. And Madonna, it seems,
had loudly proclaimed how gallantly I had served her, for as they bore me along in a cloak
carried by four men-at-arms, the cry that was heard in the streets of Pesaro that morning was
"Boccadoro!" They had loved me, had those good citizens of Pesaro, and the news of my departure
had cast a gloom upon the town. To have their hero return in a manner so truly heroic provoked
that brave display of their affection, and I deeply doubt if ever in the days of greatest loyalty
the name of Sforza was as loudly cried in Pesaro as, they tell me, was the name of Sforza's
Fool that day.

CHAPTER VII. THE SUMMONS FROM ROME

If Madonna Paola did not achieve quite all that she had promised me so readily, yet she achieved
more than from my acquaintance with the nature of Giovanni Sforza--and my knowledge of the
deep malice he entertained for me--I should have dared to hope.

The Tyrant of Pesaro, as I was soon to learn, was greatly taken with this fair cousin of his,
whom that morning he had beheld for the first time. And being taken with her, it may be that
Giovanni listened the more readily to her intercessions on my poor behalf. Since it was she
who begged this thing, he could not wholly refuse. But since he was Giovanni Sforza, he could
not wholly grant. He promised her that my life, at least, should be secure, and that not only
would he pardon me, but that he would have his own physician see to it that I was made sound
again. For the time, that was enough, he thought. First let them bring me back to life. When
that was achieved, it would be early enough to consider what course this life should take thereafter.

And she, knowing him not and finding him so kind and gracious, trusted that he would perform
that which he tricked her into believing that he promised.

For some ten days I lay abed, feverish at first and later very weak from the great loss of
blood I had sustained. But after the second day, when my fever had abated, I had some visitors,
among whom was Madonna Paola, who bore me the news that her intercessions for me with the Lord
of Pesaro were likely to bear fruit, and that I might look for my reinstatement. Yet, if I
permitted myself to hope as she bade me; I did so none too fully.

My situation, bearing in mind how at once I had served and thwarted the ends of Cesare Borgia,
was perplexing.

Another visitor I had was Messer Magistri--the pompous seneschal of Pesaro--who, after his
own fashion, seemed to have a liking for me, and a certain pity. Here was my chance of discharging
the true errand on which I was returned.

"I owe thanks," said I, "to many circumstances for the sparing of my life; but above all people
and all things do I owe thanks to our gracious Lady Lucrezia. Do you think, Messer Magistri,
that she would consent to see me and permit me again to express the gratitude that fills my heart?"

Mosser Magistri thought that he could promise this, and consented to bear my message to her.
Within the hour she was at my bedside and divining that, haply, I had news to give her of the
letter I had born her brother, she dismissed Magistri who was in attendance.

Once we were alone her first words were of kindly concern for my condition, delivered in that
sweet, musical voice that was by no means the least charm of a princess to whom Nature had
been prodigal of gifts. For without going to that length of exaggerated praise which some have
bestowed--for her own ear, and with an eye to profit--upon Madonna Lucrezia, yet were I less
than truthful if I sought to belittle her ample claims to beauty. Some six years later than
the time of which I write she was met on the occasion of her entry into Ferrara by a certain
clown dressed in the scanty guise of the shepherd Paris, who proffered her the apple of beauty
with the mean-souled flattery that since beholding her he had been forced to alter his old-time
judgment in favour of Venus.

He lied, like the brazen, self-seeking adulator that he was, and for which he should have been
soundly whipped. Her nose was a shade too long, her chin a shade too short to admit, even remotely,
of such comparisons. Still, that she had a certain gracious beauty, as I have said, it is not
mine to deny. There was an almost childish freshness in her face, an almost childish innocence
in her fine gray eyes, and, above all, a golden and resplendent hair as brought to mind the
tresses of God's angels.

That fair child--for no more than a child was she--drew a chair to my bedside.

There she sate herself, whilst I thanked her for her concern on my behalf, and answered that
I was doing well enough, and should be abroad again in a day or two.

"Brave lad," she murmured, patting my hand, which lay upon the coverlet, as though she had
been my sister and I anything but a Fool, "count me ever your friend hereafter, for what you
have done for Madonna Paola. For although it was my own family you thwarted, yet you did so
to serve one who is more to me than any family, more than any sister could be."

"What I did, Madonna," I answered, "I did with the better heart since it opened out a way that
was barred me, solved me a riddle which my Lord, your Illustrious brother, set me--one that
otherwise might well have overtaxed my wits."

"Ah?" Her gray eyes fell on me in a swift and searching glance, a glance that revealed to the
full their matchless beauty. Care seemed of a sudden to have aged her face. The question of
her eyes needed no translation into words.

"The Lord Cardinal of Valencia entrusted me with a letter for you, in answer to your own,"
I informed her, and from underneath my pillow I drew the package, which during Magistri's absence
I had abstracted from my boot that I might have it in readiness when she came.

She sighed as she took it, and a wistful smile invested the corners of her mouth.

"I had hoped he would have found better employment for you," she said.

"His Excellency promised that he would more fitly employ me in the future did I discharge this
errand with secrecy and despatch. But by aiding Madonna Paola I have burned my boats against
returning to claim the redemption of that promise; though had it not been for Madonna Paola
and what I did, I scarce know how I should have penetrated here to you."

She broke the seal, and rising crossed to the window, where she stood reading the letter, her
back toward me. Presently I heard a stifled sob. The letter was crushed in her hand. Then moments
passed ere she confronted me once more. But her manner as all changed; she was agitated and
preoccupied, and for all that she forced herself to talk of me and my affairs, her mind was
clearly elsewhere. At last she left me, nor did I see her again during the time I was confined
to my bed.

On the eleventh day I rose, and the weather being mild and spring-like, I was permitted by
my grave-faced doctor to take the air a little on the terrace that overlooks the sea. I found
no garments but some suits of motley, and so, in despite of my repugnance now to reassume that
garb, I had no choice but to array myself in one of these. I selected the least garish one--a
suit of black and yellow stripes, with hose that was half black, half yellow, too; and so,
leaning upon the crutch they had left me, I crept forth into the sunlight, the very ghost of
the man that I had been a fortnight ago.

I found a stone seat in a sheltered corner looking southward towards Ancona, and there I rested
me and breathed the strong invigorating air of the Adriatic. The snows were gone, and between
me and the wall some twenty paces off--there was a stretch of soft, green turf.

I had brought with me a book that Madonna Lucrezia had sent me while I was yet abed. It was
a manuscript collection of Spanish odes, with the proverbs of one Domenico Lopez--all very
proper nourishment for a jester's mind. The odes seemed to possess a certain quaintness, and
among the proverbs there were many that were new to me in framing and in substance. Moreover,
I was glad of this means of improving my acquaintance with the tongue of Spain, and I was soon
absorbed. So absorbed, indeed, as never to hear the footsteps of the Lord Giovanni, when presently
he approached me unattended, nor to guess at his presence until his shadow fell athwart my
page. I raised my eyes, and seeing who it was I made shift to get on my feet; but he commanded
me to remain seated, commenting sympathetically upon my weak condition.

He asked me what I read, and when I had told him, a thin smile fluttered across his white face.

"You choose your reading with rare judgment," said he. "Read on, and prime your mind with fresh
humour, prepare yourself with new conceits for our amusement against the time when health shall
be more fully restored you."

It was in such words as these that he intimated to me that I was pardoned, and reinstated--as
the Fool of the Court of Pesaro. That was to be the sum of his clemency. We were precisely
where we had been. Once before had he granted me my life on condition that I should amuse him;
he did no more than repeat that mercy now. I stared at him in wonder, open-mouthed, whereit
he laughed.

"You are agreeably surprised, my Boccadoro?" said he, his fingers straying to his beard as
was his custom. "My clemency is no more than you deserve in return for the service you have
rendered to the House of Sforza." And he patted my head as though I had been one of his dogs
that had borne itself bravely in the chase.

I answered nothing. I sat there as if I had been a part of the stone from which my seat was
hewn, for I lacked the strength to rise and strangle him as he deserved--moreover, I was bound
by an oath, which it would have damned my soul to break, never to raise my hand against him.

And then, before he could say more, two ladies issued from the doorway on my right. They were
Madonna Lucrezia and Madonna Paola. Upon espying me they hastened forward with expressions
of pleased surprise at seeing me risen and out, and when I would have got to my feet they stayed
me as Giovanni had done. Madonna Paola's words seemed addressed to heaven rather than to me,
for they were words of thanksgiving for this recovery of my strength.

"I have no thanks," she ended warmly, "that can match the deeds by which you earned them, Messer
Biancomonte."

My eyes drifting to Giovanni's face surprised its sudden darkening.

"Madonna Paola," said he, in an icy voice, "you have uttered a name that must not be heard
within my walls of Pesaro, if you would prove yourself the friend of Boccadoro. To remind me
of his true identity is to remind me of that which counts not in his favour."

She turned to regard him, a mild surprise in her blue eyes.

"But, my lord, you promised--" she began.

"I promised," he interposed, with an easy smile and manner never so deprecatory, "that I would
pardon him, grant him his life and restore him to my favour."

"But did you not say that if he survived and was restored to strength you would then determine
the course his life should take?"

Still smiling, he produced his comfit-box, and raised the lid.

"That is a thing he seems to have determined for himself," he answered smoothly--he could be
smooth as a cat upon occasion, could this bastard of Costanzo Sforza. "I came upon him here,
arrayed as you behold him, and reading a book of Spanish quips. Is it not clear that he has
chosen?"

Between thumb and forefinger he balanced a sugar-crusted comfit of coriander seed steeped in
marjoram vinegar, and having put his question he bore the sweet-meat to his mouth. The ladies
looked at him, and from him to me. Then Madonna Paola spoke, and there seemed a reproachful
wonder in her voice.

"Is this indeed your choice?" she asked me.

"It is the choice that was forced on me," said I, in heat. "They left me no garment save these
of folly. That I was reading this book it pleases my lord to interpret into a further sign
of my intentions."

She turned to him again, and to the appeal she made was joined that of Madonna Lucrezia. He
grew serious and put up his hand in a gesture of rare loftiness.

"I am more clement than you think," said he, "in having done so much. For the rest, the restoration
that you ask for him is one involving political issues you little dream of. What is this?"

He had turned abruptly. A servant was approaching, leading a mud-splashed courier, whom he
announced as having just arrived.

"Whence are you?" Giovanni questioned him.

"From the Holy See," answered the courier, bowing, "with letters for the High and Mighty Lord
Giovanni Sforza, Tyrant of Pesaro, and his noble spouse, Madonna Lucrezia Borgia."

He proffered his letters as he spoke, and Giovanni, whose brow had grown overcast, took them
with a hand that seemed reluctant. Then bidding the servant see to the courier's refreshment,
he dismissed them both.

A moment he stood, balancing the parchments a if from their weight he would infer the gravity
of their contents; and the affairs of Boccadoro were, there and then, forgotten by us all.
For the thought that rose uppermost in our minds--saving always that of Madonna Lucrezia--was
that these communications concerned the sheltering of Madonna Paola, and were a command for
her immediate return to Rome. At last Giovanni handed his wife the letter intended for her,
and, in silence, broke the seal of his own.

He unfolded it with a grim smile, but scarce had he begun to read when his expression softened
into one of terror, and his face grew ashen. Next it flared crimson, the veins on his brow
stood out like ropes, and his eyes flashed furiously upon Madonna Lucrezia. She was reading,
her bosom rising and falling in token of the excitement that possessed her.

"Madonna," he cried in an awful voice, "I have here a command from the Holy See to repair at
once to Rome, to answer certain charges that are preferred against me relating to my marriage.
Madonna, know you aught of this?"

"I know, sir," she answered steadily, "that I, too, have here a letter calling me to Rome.
But there is no reason given for the summons."

Intuitively it flashed across my mind that whatever the matter might be, Madonna Lucrezia had
full knowledge of it through the letter I had brought her from her brother.

"Can you conjecture, Madonna, what are these charges to which my letter vaguely alludes?" Giovanni
was inquiring.

"Your pardon, but the subject is scarcely of a nature to permit discussion in the castle courtyard.
Its character is intimate."

He looked at her very searchingly, but for all that he was a man of almost twice her years,
her wits were more than a match for his, and his scrutiny can have told him nothing. She preserved
a calm, unruffled front.

"In five minutes, Madonna," said he, very sternly, "I shall be honoured if you will receive
me in your closet."

She inclined her head, murmuring an unhesitating assent. Satisfied, he bowed to her and to
Madonna Paola--who had been looking on with eyes that wonder had set wide open--and turning
on his heel he strode briskly away. As he passed into the castle, Madonna Lucrezia heaved a
sigh and rose.

"My poor Boccadoro," she cried, "I fear me your affairs must wait a while. But think of me
always as your friend, and believe that if I can prevail upon my brother to overlook the ill-turn
you did him when you entered the service of this child"--and she pointed to Madonna Paola--"I
shall send for you from Rome, for in Pesaro I fear you have little to hope for. But let this
be a secret between us."

From those words of hers I inferred, as perhaps she meant I should, that once she left Pesaro
to obey her father's summons, our little northern state was to know her no more. Once again,
only, did I see her, on the occasion of her departure, some four days later, and then but for
a moment. Back to Pesaro she came no more, as you shall learn anon; but behind her she left
a sweet and fragrant memory, which still endures though many years are sped and much calumny
has been heaped upon her name.

I might pause here to make some attempt at refuting the base falsehoods that had been bruited
by that time-serving vassal Guicciardini, and others of his kidney, whom the upstart Cardinal
Giuliano della Rovere--sometime pedlar--in his jealous fury at seeing the coveted pontificate
pass into the family of Borgia, bought and hired to do his loathsome work of calumny and besmirch
the fame of as sweet a lady as Italy has known. But this poor chronicle of mine is rather concerned
with the history of Madonna Paola di Santafior, and it were a divergence well-nigh unpardonable
to set my pen at present to that other task. Moreover, there is scarce the need. If any there
be who doubt me, or if future generations should fall into the error of lending credence to
the lies of that villain Guicciardini, of that arch-villain Giuliano della Rovere, or of other
smaller fry who have lent their helot's pens to weave mendacious records of her life, dubbing
her murderess, adulteress, and Heaven knows what besides--I will but refer them to the archives
of Ferrara, whose Duchess she became at the age of one-and-twenty, and where she reigned for
eighteen years. There shall it be found recorded that she was an exemplary, God-fearing woman;
a faithful and honoured wife; a wise, devoted mother; and a princess, beloved and esteemed
by her people for her piety, her charity and her wisdom. If such records as are there to be
read by earnest seekers after truth be not sufficient to convince, and to reveal those others
whom I have named in the light of their true baseness, then were it idle for me to set up in
these pages a passing refutation of the falsehoods which it has grieved me so often to hear
repeated.

It was two days later that the Lord Giovanni set out for Rome, obedient to the command he had
received. But before his departure--on the eve of it, to be precise--there arrived at Pesaro
a very wonderful and handsome gentleman. This was the brother of Madonna Paola, the High and
Mighty Lord Filippo di Santafior. He had had a hint in Rome that his connivance at his sister's
defiant escape was suspected at the Vatican, and he had wisely determined that his health would
thrive better in a northern climate for a while.

A very splendid creature was this Lord Filippo, all shimmering velvet, gleaming jewels, costly
furs and glittering gold. His face was effeminate, though finely featured, and resembled, in
much, his sister's. He rode a cream-coloured horse, which seemed to have been steeped in musk,
so strongly was it scented. But of all his affectations the one with which I as taken most
was to see one of his grooms approach him when he dismounted, to dust his wondrous clothes
down to his shoes, which he wore in the splayed fashion set by the late King of France who
was blessed with twelve toes on each of his deformed feet.

The Lord Giovanni, himself not lacking in effeminacy, was greatly taken by the wondrous raiment,
the studied lisp and the hundred affectations of this peerless gallant. Had he not been overburdened
at the time by the Papal business that impended, he might there and then have cemented the
intimacy which was later to spring up between them. As it was, he made him very welcome, and
placed at his and his sister's disposal the beautiful palace that his father had begun, and
he, himself, had completed, which was known as the Palazza Sforza. On the morrow Giovanni left
Pesaro with but a small retinue, in which I was thankful not to be included.

Two days later Madonna Lucrezia followed her husband, the fact that they journeyed not together,
seeming to wear an ominous significance. Her eyes had a swollen look, such as attends much
weeping, which afterwards I took as proof that she knew for what purpose she was going, and
was moved to bitter grief at the act to which her ambitious family was constraining her.

After their departure things moved sluggishly at Pesaro. The nobles of the Lord Giovanni's
Court repaired to their several houses in the neighboring country, and save for the officers
of the household the place became deserted.

Madonna Paola remained at the Sforza Palace, and I saw her only once during the two mouths
that followed, and then it was about the streets, and she had little more than a greeting for
me as she passed. At her side rode her brother, a splendid blaze of finery, falcon on wrist.

My days were spent in reading and reflection, for there was naught else to do. I might have
gone my ways, had I so wished it, but something kept me there at Pesaro, curious to see the
events with which the time was growing big.

We grew sadly stagnant during Lent, and what with the uneventful course of things, and the
lean fare proscribed by Mother Church, it was a very dispirited Boccadoro that wandered aimlessly
whither his dulling fancy took him. But in Holy Week, at last, we received an abrupt stir which
set a whirlpool of excitement in the Dead Sea of our lives. It was the sudden reappearance
of the Lord Giovanni.

He came alone, dust-stained and haggard, on a horse that dropped dead from exhaustion the moment
Pesaro was reached, and in his pallid cheek and hollow eye we read the tale of some great fear
and some disaster.

That night we heard the story of how he had performed the feat of riding all the way from Rome
in four-and-twenty hours, fleeing for his life from the peril of assassination, of which Madonna
Lucrezia had warned him.

He went off to his Castle of Gradara, where he shut himself up with the trouble we could but
guess at, and so in Pesaro, that brief excitement spent, we stagnated once again.

I seemed an anomaly in so gloomy a place, and more than once did I think of departing and seeking
out my poor old mother in her mountain home, contenting myself hereafter with labouring like
any honest villano born to the soil. But there ever seemed to be a voice that bade me stay
and wait, and the voice bore a suggestion of Madonna Paola. But why dissemble here? Why cast
out hints of voices heard, supernatural in their flavour? The voice, I doubt not, was just
my own inclination, which bade me hope that once again it might be mine to serve that lady.

An eventful year in the history of the families of Sforza and Borgia was that year of grace 1497.

Spring came, and ere it had quite grown to summer we had news of the assassination of the Duke
of Gandia, and the tale that he was done to death by his elder brother, Cesare Borgia; a tale
which seemed to lack for reasonable substantiation, and which, despite the many voices that
make bold to noise it broadcast, may or may not be true.

In that same month of June messages passed between Rome and Pesaro, and gradually the burden
of the messages leaked out in rumours that Pope Alexander and his family were pressing the
Lord Giovanni to consent to a divorce. At last he left Pesaro again; this time to journey to
Milan and seek counsel with his powerful cousin, Lodovico, whom they called "The Moor." When
he returned he was more sulky and downcast than ever, and at Gradara he lived in an isolation
that had been worthy of a hermit.

And thus that miserable year wore itself out, and, at last, in December, we heard that the
divorce was announced, and that Lucrezia Borgia was the Tyrant of Pesaro's wife no more. The
news of it and the reasons that were put forward as having led to it were roared across Italy
in a great, derisive burst of laughter, of which the Lord Giovanni was the unfortunate and
contemptible butt.

CHAPTER VIII. "MENE, MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN"

And now, lest I grow tedious and weary you with this narrative of mine, it may be well that
I but touch with a fugitive pen upon the events of the next three years of the history of Pesaro.

Early in 1498 the Lord Giovanni showed himself once more abroad, and he seemed again the same
weak, cruel, pleasure-loving tyrant he had been before shame overtook him and drove him for
a season into hiding. Madonna Paola and her brother, Filippo di Santafior, remained in Pesaro,
where they now appeared to have taken up their permanent abode. Madonna Paola--following her
inclinations--withdrew to the Convent of Santa Caterina, there to pursue in peace the studies
for which she had a taste, whilst her splendid, profligate brother became the ornament--the
arbiter elegantiarum--of our court.

Thus were they left undisturbed; for in the cauldron of Borgia politics a stew was simmering
that demanded all that family's attention, and of whose import we guessed something when we
heard that Cesare Borgia had flung aside his cardinalitial robes to put on armour and give
freer rein to the boundless ambition that consumed him.

With me life moved as if that winter excursion and adventure had never been. Even the memory
of it must have faded into a haze that scarce left discernible any semblance of reality, for
I was once again Boccadoro, the golden-mouthed Fool, whose sayings were echoed by every jester
throughout Italy. My shame that for a brief season had risen up in arms seemed to be laid to
rest once more, and I was content with the burden that was mine. Money I had in plenty, for
when I pleased him the Lord Giovanni's vails were often handsome, and much of my earnings went
to my poor mother, who would sooner have died starving than have bought herself bread with
those ducats could she have guessed at what manner of trade Lazzaro Biancomonte had earned them.

The Lord Giovanni was a frequent visitor at the Convent of Santa Caterina, whither he went,
ever attended by Filippo di Santafior, to pay his duty to his fair cousin. In the summer of
1500, she being then come to the age of eighteen, and as divinely beautiful a lady as you could
find in Italy, she allowed herself to be persuaded by her brother--who, I make no doubt had
been, in his turn, persuaded by the Lord of Pesaro--to leave her convent and her studies, and
to take up her life at the Sforza Palace, where Filippo held by now a sort of petty court of
his own.

And now it fell out that the Lord Giovanni was oftener at the Palace than at the Castle, and
during that summer Pesaro was given over to such merrymaking as it had never known before.
There was endless lute-thrumming and recitation of verses by a score of parasite poets whom
the Lord Giovanni encouraged, posing now as a patron of letters; there were balls and masques
and comedies beyond number, and we were as gay as though Italy held no Cesare Borgia, Duke
of Valentinois, who was sweeping northward with his all-conquering flood of mercenaries.

But one there was who, though the very centre of all these merry doings, the very one in whose
honour and for whose delectation they were set afoot, seemed listless and dispirited in that
boisterous crowd. This was Madonna Paola, to whom, rumour had it, that her kinsman, the Lord
Giovanni, was paying a most ardent suit.

I saw her daily now, and often would she choose me for her sole companion; often, sitting apart
with me, would she unburden her heart and tell me much that I am assured she would have told
no other. A strange thing may it have seemed, this confidence between the Fool and the noble
Lady of Santafior--my Holy Flower of the Quince, as in my thoughts I grew to name her. Perhaps
it may have been because she found me ever ready to be sober at her bidding, when she needed
sober company as those other fools--the greater fools since they accounted themselves wise--could
not afford her.

That winter adventure betwixt Cagli and Pesaro was a link that bound us together, and caused
her to see under my motley and my masking smile the true Lazzaro Biancomonte whom for a little
season she had known. And when we were alone it had become her wont to call me Lazzaro, leaving
that other name that they had given me for use when others were at hand. Yet never did she
refer to my condition, or wound me by seeking to spur me to the ambition to become myself again.
Haply she was content that I should be as I sas, since had I sought to become different it
must have entailed my quitting Pesaro, and this poor lady was so bereft of friends that she
could not afford to lose even the sympathy of the despised jester.

It was in those days that I first came to love her with as pure a flame as ever burned within
the heart of man, for the very hopelessness of it preserved its holy whiteness. What could
I do, if I would love her, but love her as the dog may love his mistress? More was surely not
for me--and to seek more were surely a madness that must earn me less. And so, I was content
to let things be, and keep my heart in check, thanking God for the mercy of her company at
times, and for the precious confidences she made me, and praying Heaven--for of my love was
I grown devout--that her life might run a smooth and happy course, and ready, in the furtherance
of such an object, to lay down my own should the need arise. Indeed there were times when it
seemed to me that it was a good thing to be a Fool to know a love of so rare a purity as that--such
a love as I might never have known had I been of her station, and in such case as to have hoped
to win her some day for my own.

One evening of late August, when the vines were heavy with ripe fruit, and the scent of roses
was permeating the tepid air, she drew me from the throng of courtiers that made merry in the
Palace, and led me out into the noble gardens to seek counsel with me, she said, upon a matter
of gravest moment. There, under the sky of deepest blue, crimsoning to saffron where the sun
had set, we paced awhile in silence, my own senses held in thrall by the beauty of the eventide,
the ambient perfumes of the air and the strains of music that faintly reached us from the Palace.
Madonna's head was bent, and her eyes were set upon the ground and burdened, so my furtive
glance assured me, with a gentle sorrow. At length she spoke, and at the words she uttered
my heart seemed for a moment to stand still.

"Lazzaro," said she, "they would have me marry."

For a little spell there was a silence, my wits seeming to have grown too numbed to attempt
to seek an answer. I might be content, indeed, to love her from a distance, as the cloistered
monk may love and worship some particular saint in Heaven; yet it seems that I was not proof
against jealousy for all the abstract quality of my worship.

"Lazzaro," she repeated presently, "did you hear me? They would have me marry."

"I have heard some such talk," I answered, rousing myself at last; "and they say that it is
the Lord Giovanni who would prove worthy of your hand."

"They say rightly, then," she acknowledged. "The Lord Giovanni it is."

Again there was a silence, and again it was she who broke it.

"Well, Lazzaro?" she asked. "Have you naught to say?"

"What would you have me say, Madonna? If this wedding accords with your own wishes, then am
I glad."

"Lazzaro, Lazzaro! you know that it does not."

"How should I know it, Madonna?"

"Because your wits are shrewd, and because you know me. Think you this petty tyrant is such
a man as I should find it in my heart to conceive affection for? Grateful to him am I for the
shelter he has afforded us here; but my love--that is a thing I keep, or fain would keep, for
some very different man. When I love, I think it will be a valorous knight, a gentleman of
lofty mind, of noble virtues and ready address."

"An excellent principle on which to go in quest of a husband, Madonna mia. But where in this
degenerate world do you look to find him?"

"Are there, then, no such men?"

"In the pages of Bojardo and those other poets whom you have read too earnestly there may be."

"Nay, there speaks your cynicism," she chided me. "But even if my ideals be too lofty, would
you have me descend from the height of such a pinnacle to the level of the Lord Giovanni--a
weak-spirited craven, as witnesses the manner in which he permitted the Borgias to mishandle
him; a cruel and unjust tyrant, as witnesses his dealing with you, to seek no further instances;
a weak, ignorant, pleasure-loving fool, devoid of wit and barren of ambition? Such is the man
they would have me wed. Do not tell me, Lazzaro, that it were difficult to find a better one
than this."

"I do not mean to tell you that. After all, though it be my trade to jest, it is not my way
to deal in falsehood. I think, Madonna, that if we were to have you write for us such an appreciation
of the High and Mighty Giovanni Sforza, you would leave a very faithful portrait for the enlightenment
of posterity."

"Lazzaro, do not jest!" she cried. "It is your help I need. That is the reason why I am come
to you with the tale of what they seek to force me into doing."

"To force you?" I cried. "Would they dare so much?"

"Aye, if I resist them further."

"Why, then," I answered, with a ready laugh, "do not resist them further."

"Lazzaro!" she cried, her accents telling of a spirit wounded by what she accounted a flippancy.

"Mistake me not," I hastened to elucidate. "It is lest they should employ force and compel
you at once to enter into this union that I counsel you to offer no resistance. Beg for a little
time, vaguely suggesting that you are not indisposed to the Lord Giovanni's suit."

"That were deceit," she protested.

"A trusty weapon with which to combat tyranny," said I.

"Well? And then?" she questioned. "Such a state of things cannot endure for ever. It must end
some day."

I shook my head, and I smiled down upon her a smile that was very full of confidence.

"That day will never dawn, unless the Lord Giovanni's impatience transcends all bounds."

She looked at me, a puzzled glance in her eyes, a bewildered expression knitting her fine brows.

"I do not take your meaning, my friend," she complained.

"Then mark the enucleation. I will expound this meaning of mine through the medium of a parable.
In Babylon of old, there dwelt a king whose name was Belshazzar, who, having fallen into habits
of voluptuousness and luxury, was so enslaved by them as to feast and make merry whilst a certain
Darius, King of the Medes, was marching in arms against his capital. At a feast one night the
fingers of a man's hand were seen to write upon the wall, and the words they wrote were a belated
warning: 'Mene, mene, tekel, upharsin.'"

She looked at me, her eyes round with inquiry, and a faint smile of uncertainty on her lips.

"Let me confess that your elucidation helps me but little."

"Ponder it, Madonna," I urged her. "Substitute Giovanni Sforza for Belshazzar, Cesare Borgia
for King Darius, and you have the key to my parable."

"But is it indeed so? Does danger threaten Pesaro from that quarter?"

"Aye, does it," I answered, almost impatiently. "The tide of war is surging up, and presently
will whelm us utterly. Yet here sits the Lord Giovanni making merry with balls and masques
and burle and banquets, wholly unprepared, wholly unconscious of his peril. There may be no
hand to write a warning on his walls--or else, as in the case of Babylon, the hand will write
when it is too late to avert the evil--yet there are not wanting other signs for those that
have the wit to read them; nor is a wondrous penetration needed."

"And you think then--" she began.

"I think that if you are obdurate with him, he and your brother may hurry you by force into
this union. But if you temporise with half-promises, with suggestions that before Christmas
you may grow reconciled to his wishes, he will be patient."

"But what if Christmas comes and finds us still in this position?"

"It will need a miracle for that; or, at least, the death of Cesare Borgia--an unlikely event,
for they say he uses great precautions. Saving the miracle, and providing Cesare lives, I will
give the Lord Giovanni's reign in Pesaro at most two months."

We had halted now, and were confronting each other in the descending gloom.

"Lazzaro, dear friend," she cried, almost with gaiety, "I was wise to take counsel with you.
You have planted in my heart a very vigorous growth of hope."

We turned soon after, and started to retrace our steps, for she might be ill-advised to remain
absent overlong.

I left her on the terrace in a very different spirit from that in which she had come to me,
bearing with me her promise that she would act as I had advised her. No doubt I had taken a
load from her gentle soul, and oddly enough I had taken, too, a load from mine.

Things fell out as I said they would in far as Giovanni Sforza and Filippo were concerned.
Madonna's seeming amenability to their wishes stayed their insistence, and they could but respect
her wishes to let the betrothal be delayed yet a little while. And during the weeks that followed,
it was I scarce know whether more pitiable or more amusing to see the efforts that Giovanni
made to win her ardently desired affection.

Love has sharp eyes at times, and a dullard under the influence of the baby god will turn shrewd
and exert rare wiles in the conduct of his wooing. Giovanni, by some intuition usually foreign
to his dull nature, seemed to divine what manner of man would be Madonna Paola's ideal, and
strove to pass himself off as possessed of the attributes of that ideal, with an ardour that
was pitiably comical. He became an actor by the side of whom those comedians that played impromptus
for his delectation were the merest bunglers with the art. He gathered that Madonna Paola loved
the poets and their stately diction, and so, to please her better, he became a poet for the season.

"Poeta nascitur" the proverb runs, and that proverb's truth was doubtless forced home upon
the Lord Giovanni at an early stage of his excursions into the flowery meads of prosody. Fortunately
he lacked the supreme vanity that is the attribute of most poetasters, and he was able to see
that such things as after hours of midnight-labour he contrived to pen, would evoke nothing
but her amusement--unless, indeed, it were her scorn--and render him the laughing-stock of
all his Court.

So, in the wisdom of despair, he came to me, and with a gentleness that in the past he had
rarely manifested for me, he asked me was I skilled in writing verse. There were not wanting
others to whom he might have gone, for there was no lack of rhymsters about his Court; but
perhaps he thought he could be more certain of my silence than of theirs.

I answered him that were the subject to my taste, I might succeed in throwing off some passable
lines upon it. He pressed gold upon me, and bade me there and then set about fashioning an
ode to Madonna Paola, and to forget, when they were done, under pain of a whipping to the bone,
that I had written them.

I obeyed him with a right good-will. For what subject of all subjects possible was there that
made so powerful an appeal to my inclinations? Within an hour he had the ode--not perhaps such
a poem as might stand comparison with the verses of Messer Petrarca, yet a very passable effusion,
chaste of conceit and palpitating with sincerity and adoration. It was in that that I addressed
her as the "Holy Flower of the Quince," which was the symbol of the House of Santafior.

So great an impression made that ode that on the morrow the Lord Giovanni came to me with a
second bribe and a second threat of torture. I gave him a sonnet of Petrarchian manner which
went near to outshining the merits of the ode. And now, these requests of the Lord Giovanni's
assumed an almost daily regularity, until it came to seem that did affairs continue in this
manner for yet a little while, I should have earned me enough to have repurchased Biancomonte,
and, so, ended my troubles. And good was the value that I gave him for his gold. How good,
he never knew; for how was he, the clod, to guess that this despised jester of his Court was
pouring out his very soul into the lines he wrote to the tyrant's orders?

It is scant wonder that, at last, Madonna Paola who had begun by smiling, was touched and moved
by the ardent worship that sighed from those perfervid verses. So touched, indeed, was she
as to believe the Lord Giovanni's love to be the pure and holy thing those lines presented
it, and to conclude that his love had wrought in him a wondrous and ennobling transformation.
That so she thought I have the best of all reasons to affirm, for I had it from her very lips
one day.

"Lazzaro," she sighed, "it is occurring to me that I have done the Lord Giovanni an injustice.
I have misgauged his character. I held him to be a shallow, unlettered clown, devoid of any
finer feelings. Yet his verses have a merit that is far above the common note of these writings,
and they breathe such fine and lofty sentiments as could never spring from any but a fine and
lofty soul."

How I came to keep my tongue from wagging out the truth I scarcely know. It may be that I was
frightened of the punishment that might overtake me did I betray my master; but I rather think
that it was the fear of betraying myself, and so being flung into the outer darkness where
there was no such radiant presence as Madonna Paola's. For had I told her it was I had penned
those poems that were the marvel of the Court, she must of necessity have guessed my secret,
for to such quick wits as hers it must have been plain at once that they were no vapourings
of artistry, but the hot expressions of a burning truth. It was in that--in their supreme sincerity--that
their chief virtue lay.

Thus weeks wore on. The vintage season came and went; the roses faded in the gardens of the
Palazzo Sforza, and the trees put on their autumn garb of gold. October was upon us, and with
it came, at last, the fear that long ago should have spurred us into activity. And now that
it came it did not come to stimulate, but to palsy. Terror-stricken at the conquering advance
of Valentino--which was the name they now gave Cesare Borgia; a name derived from his Duchy
of Valentinois--Giovanni Sforza abruptly ceased his revelling, and made a hurried appeal for
help to Francesco Gonzaga, Lord of Mantua--his brother-in-law, through the Lord of Pesaro's
first marriage. The Mantuan Marquis sent him a hundred mercenaries under the command of an
Albanian named Giacomo. As well might he have sent him a hundred figs wherewith to pelt the
army of Valentino!

Disaster swooped down swiftly upon the Lord of Pesaro. His very people, seeing in what case
they were, and how unprepared was their tyrant to defend them, wisely resolved that they would
run no risks of fire and pillage by aiding to oppose the irresistible force that was being
hurled against us.

It was on the second Sunday in October that the storm burst over the Lord Giovanni's head.
He was on the point of leaving the Castle to attend Mass at San Domenico, and in his company
were Filippo Sforza of Santafior and Madonna Paola, besides courtiers and attendants, amounting
in all to perhaps a score of gallant cavaliers and ladies. The cavalcade was drawn up in the
quadrangle, and Giovanni was on the point of mounting, when, of a sudden, a rumbling noise,
as of distant thunder, but too continuous for that, arrested him, his foot already in the stirrup.

"What is that?" he asked, an ashen pallor overspreading his effeminate face, as, doubtless,
the thought of the enemy came uppermost in his mind.

Men looked at one another with fear in their eyes and some of the ladies raised their voices
in querulous beseeching for reassurance. They had their answer even as they asked. The Albanian
Giacomo, who was now virtually the provost of the Castle, appeared suddenly at the gates with
half a score of men. He raised a warning hand, which compelled the Lord Giovanni to pause;
then he rasped out a brisk command to his followers. The winches creaked, and the drawbridge
swung up even as with a clank and rattle of chains the portcullis fell.

That done, he came forward to impart the ominous news which one of his riders had brought him
at the gallop from the Porta Romana.

A party of some fifty men, commanded by one of Cesare's captains, had ridden on in advance
of the main army to call upon Pesaro to yield to the forces of the Church. And the people,
without hesitation, had butchered the guard and thrown wide the gates, inviting the enemy to
enter the town and seize the Castle. And to the end that this might be the better achieved,
a hundred or so had traitorously taken up arms, and were pressing forward to support the little
company that came, with such contemptuous daring, to storm our fortress and prepare the way
for Valentino.

It was a pretty situation this for the Lord Giovanni, and here were fine opportunities for
some brave acting under the eyes of his adored Madonna Paola. How would he bear himself now?
I wondered.

He promised mighty well once the first shock of the news was overcome.

"By God and His saints!" he roared, "though it may be all that it is given me to do, I'll strike
a blow to punish these dastards who have betrayed me, and to crush the presumption of this
captain who attacks us with fifty men. It is a contempt which he shall bitterly repent him."

Then he thundered to Giacomo to marshal his men, and he called upon those of his courtiers
who were knights to put on their armour that they might support him. Lastly he bade a page
go help him to arm, that he might lead his little force in person.

I saw Madonna Paola's eyes gleam with a sudden light of admiration, and I guessed that in the
matter of Giovanni's valour her opinions were undergoing the same change as the verses had
caused them to undergo in the matter of his intellect.

Myself, I was amazed. For here was a Lord Giovanni I seemed never to have known, and I was
eager to behold the sequel to so fine a prologue.

CHAPTER IX. THE FOOL-AT-ARMS

That valorous bearing that the Lord Giovanni showed whilst, with Madonna Paola's glance upon
him, his fear of seeming afraid was greater than his actual fear of our assailants, he cast
aside like a mantle once he was within the walls of his Castle, and under the eyes of none
save the page and myself, for I followed idly at a respectful distance.

He stood irresolute and livid of countenance, his eagerness to arm and to lead his mercenaries
and his knights all departed out of him. It was that curiosity of mine to see the sequel to
his stout words that had led me to follow him, and what I saw was, after all, no more than
I might have looked for--the proof that his big talk of sallying forth to battle was but so
much acting. Yet it must have been acting of such a quality as to have deceived even his very self.

Now, however, by the main steps, he halted in the cool gloom of the gallery, and I saw that
fear had caught his heart in an icy grip and was squeezing it empty. In his irresolution he
turned about, and his gloomy eye fell upon me loitering in the porch. At that he turned to
the page who followed in obedience to his command.

"Begone!" he growled at the lad, "I will have Boccadoro, there, to help me arm." And with a
poor attempt at mirth--"The act is a madness," he muttered, "and so it is fitting that folly
should put on my armour for it. Come with me, you," he bade me, and I, obediently, gladly,
went forward and up the wide stone staircase after him, leaving the page to speculate as he
listed on the matter of his abrupt dismissal.

I read the Lord Giovanni's motives, as clearly as if they had been written for me by his own
hand. The opinion in which I might hold him was to him a matter of so small account that he
little cared that I should be the witness of the weakness which he feared was about to overcome
him--nay, which had overcome him already. Was I not the one man in Pesaro who already knew
his true nature, as revealed by that matter of the verses which I had written, and of which
he had assumed the authorship? He had no shame before me, for I already knew the very worst
of him, and he was confident that I would not talk lest he should destroy me at my first word.
And yet, there was more than that in his motive for choosing me to go with him in that hour,
as I was to learn once we were closeted in his chamber.

"Boccadoro," he cried, "can you not find me some way out of this?" Under his beard I saw the
quiver of his lips as he put the question.

"Out of this?" I echoed, scarce understanding him at first.

"Aye, man--out of this Castle, out of Pesaro. Bestir those wits of yours. Is there no way in
which it might be done, no disguise under which I might escape?"

"Escape?" quoth I, looking at him, and endeavouring to keep from my eyes the contempt that
was in my heart. Dear God! Had revenge been all I sought of him, how I might have gloated over
his miserable downfall!

"Do not stand there staring with those hollow eyes," he cried, anger and fear blending horridly
in his voice and rendering shrill its pitch. "Find me a way. Come, knave, find me a way, or
I'll have you broken on the wheel. Set your wits to save that long, lean body from destruction.
Think, I bid you."

He was moving restlessly as he spoke, swayed by the agitation of terror that possessed him
like a devil. I looked at him now without dissembling my scorn. Even in such an hour as this
the habit of hectoring cruelty remained him.

"What shall it avail me to think?" I asked him in a voice that was as cold and steady as his
was hot and quavering. "Were you a bird I might suggest flight across the sea to you. But you
are a man, a very human, a very mortal man, although your father made you Lord of Pesaro."

Even as I was speaking, the thunder of the besiegers reached our ears--such a dull roar it
was as that of a stormy sea in winter time. Maddened by his terror he stood over me now, his
eyes flashing wildly in his white face.

"Another word in such a tone," he rasped, his fingers on his dagger, "and I'll make an end
of you. I need your help, animal!"

I shook my head, my glance meeting his without fear. I was of twice his strength, we were alone,
and the hour was one that levelled ranks. Had he made the least attempt to carry out his threat,
had he but drawn an inch of the steel he fingered, I think I should have slain him with my
hands without fear or thought of consequences.

"I have no help for you such as you need," I answered him. "I am but the Fool of Pesaro. Whoever
looked to a Fool for miracles?"

"But here is death," he almost moaned.

"Lord of Pesaro," I reminded him, "your mercenaries are under arms by your command, and your
knights are joining them. They wait for the fulfilment of your promise to lead them out against
the enemy. Shall you fail them in such an hour as this?"

He sank, limp as an empty scabbard, to a chair.

"I dare not go. It is death," he answered miserably.

"And what but death is it to remain here?" I asked, torturing him with more zest than ever
he had experienced over the agonies of some poor victim on the rack. "In bearing yourself gallantly
there lies a slender chance for you. Your people seeing you in arms and ready to defend them
may yet be moved to a return of loyalty."

"A fig for their loyalty," was his peevish, craven answer. "What shall it avail me when I'm slain!"

God! was there ever such a coward as this, such a weak-souled, water-hearted dastard?

"But you may not be slain," I urged him. And then I sounded a fresh note. "Bethink you of Madonna
Paola and of the brave things you promised her."

He flushed a little, then paled again, then sat very still. Shame had touched him at last,
yet its grip was not enough to make a man of him. A moment he remained irresolute, whilst that
shame fought a hard battle with his fears.

But those fears proved stronger in the end, and his shame was overthrown by them.

"I dare not," he gasped, his slender, delicate hands clutching at the arms of his chair. "Heaven
knows I am not skilled in the use of arms."

"It asks no skill," I assured him. "Put on your armour, take a sword and lay about you. The
most ignorant scullion in your kitchens could perform it given that he had the spirit."

He moistened his lips with his tongue, and his eyes looked dead as a snake's. Suddenly he rose
and took a step towards the armour that was piled about a great leathern chair. Then he paused
and turned to me once more.

"Help me to put it on," he said in a voice that he strove to render steady. Yet scarcely had
I reached the pile and taken up the breast-plate, when he recoiled again from the task. He
broke into a torrent of blasphemy.

"I will not sacrifice myself," he almost screamed. "Jesus! not I. I will find a way out of
this. I will live to return with an army and regain my throne."

"A most wise purpose. But, meanwhile, your men are waiting for you; Madonna Paola di Santafior
is waiting for you, and--hark!--the bellowing crowd is waiting for you."

"They wait in vain," he snarled. "Who cares for them? The Lord of Pesaro am I."

"Care you, then, nothing for them? Will you have your name written in history as that of a
coward who would not lift his sword to strike one blow for honour's sake ere he was driven
out like a beast by the mere sound of voices?"

That touched him. His vanity rose in arms.

"Take up that corselet," he commanded hoarsely. I did his bidding, and, without a word, he
raised his arms that I might fit it to his breast. Yet in the instant that I turned me to pick
up the back-piece, a crash resounded through the chamber. He had hurled the breastplate to
the ground in a fresh access of terror-rage. He strode towards me, his eyes glittering like
a madman's.

"Go you!" he cried, and with outstretched arms he pointed wildly across the courtyard. "You
are very ready with your counsels. Let me behold your deeds, Do you put on the armour and go
out to fight those animals."

He raved, he ranted, he scarce knew what he said or did, and yet the words he uttered sank
deep into my heart, and a sudden, wild ambition swelled my bosom.

"Lord of Pesaro," I cried, in a voice so compelling that it sobered him, "if I do this thing
what shall be my reward?"

He stared at me stupidly for a moment. Then he laughed in a silly, crackling fashion.

"Eh?" he queried. "Gesu!" And he passed a hand over his damp brow, and threw back the hair
that cumbered it. "What is the thing that you would do, Fool?"

"Why, the thing you bade me," I answered firmly. "Put on your armour, and shut down the visor
so that all shall think it is the Lord Giovanni, Tyrant of Pesaro, who rides. If I do this
thing, and put to rout the rabble and the fifty men that Cesare Borgia has sent, what shall
be my reward?"

He watched me with twitching lips, his glare fixed upon me and a faint colour kindling in his
face. He saw how easy the thing might be. Perhaps he recalled that he had heard that I was
skilled in arms--having spent my youth in the exercise of them, against the time when I might
fling the challenge that had brought me to my Fool's estate. Maybe he recalled how I had borne
myself against long odds on that adventure with Madonna Paola, years ago. Just such a vanity
as had spurred him to have me write him verses that he might pretend were of his own making,
moved him now to grasp at my proposal. They would all think that Giovanni's armour contained
Giovanni himself. None would ever suspect Boccadoro the Fool within that shell of steel. His
honour would be vindicated, and he would not lose the esteem of Madonna Paola. Indeed, if I
returned covered with glory, that glory would be his; and if he elected to fly thereafter,
he might do so without hurt to his fair name, for he would have amply proved his mettle and
his courage.

In some such fashion I doubt not that the High and Mighty Giovanni Sforza reasoned during the
seconds that we stood, face to face and eye to eye, in that room, the cries of the impatient
ones below almost drowned in the roar of the multitude beyond.

At last he put out his hands to seize mine, and drawing me to the light he scanned my face,
Heaven alone knowing what it was he sought there.

"If you do this," said he, "Biancomonte shall be yours again, if it remains in my power to
bestow it upon you now or at any future time. I swear it by my honour."

"Swear it by your fear of Hell or by your hope of Heaven and the compact is made," I answered,
and so palsied was he and so fallen in spirit that he showed no resentment at the scorn of
his honour my words implied, but there and then took the oath I that demanded.

"And now," I urged, "help me to put on this armour of yours."

Hurriedly I cast off my jester's doublet and my head-dress with its jangling bells, and with
a wild exultation, a joy so fierce as almost to bring tears to my eyes, I held my arms aloft
whilst that poor craven strapped about my body the back and breast plates of his corselet.
I, the Fool, stood there as arrogant as any knight, whilst with his noble hands the Lord of
Pesaro, kneeling, made secure the greaves upon my legs, the sollerets with golden spurs, the
cuissarts and the genouilleres. Then he rose up, and with hands that trembled in his eagerness,
he put on my brassarts and shoulder-plates, whilst I, myself, drew on my gauntlets. Next he
adjusted the gorget, and handed me, last of all, the helm, a splendid head-piece of black and
gold, surmounted by the Sforza lion.

I took it from him and passed it over my head. Then ere I snapped down the visor and hid the
face of Boccadoro, I bade him, unless he would render futile all this masquerade, to lock the
door of his closet, and lie there concealed till my return. At that a sudden doubt assailed him.

"And what," quoth he, "if you do not return?"

In the fever that had possessed me this was a thing that had not entered into my calculations,
nor should it now. I laughed, and from the hollow of my helmet not a doubt but the sound must
have seemed charged with mockery. I pointed to the cap and doublet I had shed.

"Why, then, Illustrious, it will but remain for you to complete the change."

"Dog!" he cried; "beast, do you deride me?"

My answer was to point out towards the yard.

"They are clamouring," said I. "They wax impatient. I had better go before they come for you."
As I spoke I selected a heavy mace for only weapon, and swinging it to my shoulder I stepped
to the door. On the threshold he would have stayed me, purged by his fear of what might befall
him did I not return. But I heeded him not.

"Fare you well, my Lord of Pesaro," said I. "See that none penetrates to your closet. Make
fast the door."

"Stay!" he called after me. "Do you hear me? Stay!"

"Others will hear you if you commit this folly," I called back to him. "Get you to cover."
And so I left him.

Below, in the courtyard, my coming was hailed by a great, enthusiastic clamour. They had all
but abandoned hope of seeing the Lord Giovanni, so long had he been about his arming. As they
brought forward my charger, I sought with my eyes Madonna Paola. I beheld her by her brother--who,
it seemed, was not going with us--in the front rank of the spectators. Her cheeks were tinged
with a slight flush of excitement, and her eyes glowed at the brave sight of armed men.

I mounted, and as I rode past her to take my place at the head of that company, I lowered my
mace and bowed. She detained me a moment, setting her hand upon the glossy neck of my black
charger.

"My Lord," she said, in a low voice, intended for my ear alone, "this is a brave and gallant
thing you do, and however slight may be your hope of prevailing, yet your honour will be safe-guarded
by this act, and men will remember you with respect should it come to pass that a usurper shall
possess anon your throne. Bear you that in mind to lend you a glad courage. I shall pray for
you, my Lord, till you return."

I bowed, answering never a word lest my voice should betray me; and musing on the matter of
the strange roads that lead to a woman's heart, I passed on, to gain the van.

Two months ago, knowing Giovanni as he was, he had been detestable to her, and she contemplated
with loathing the danger in which she stood of being allied to him by marriage. Since then
he had made good use of a poor jester's mental gifts to incline her by the fervour of some
verses to a kindlier frame of mind, and now, making good use of that same jester's courage,
he completed her subjection by the display of it. She was prepared to wed the Lord Giovanni
with a glad heart and a proud willingness whensoever he should desire it.

But Giacomo was beside me now, and in the quadrangle a silence reigned, all waiting for my
command. From without there came such a din as seemed to argue that all hell was at the Castle
gates. There were shouts of defiance and screams of abuse, whilst a constant rain of stones
beat against the raised drawbridge.

They thought, no doubt, that Giovanni and his followers were at their prayers, cowering with
terror. No notion had they of the armed force, some six score strong, that waited to pour down
upon them. I briskly issued my command, and four men detached themselves and let down the bridge.
It fell with a crash, and ere those without had well grasped the situation we had hurled ourselves
across and into them with the force of a wedge, flinging them to right and to left as we crashed
through with hideous slaughter. The bridge swung up again when the last of Giacomo's mercenaries
was across, and we were shut out, in the midst of that fierce human maelstrom.

For some five minutes there raged such a brief, hot fight as will be remembered as long as
Pesaro stands. No longer than that did it take for the crowd of citizens to realise that war
was not their trade, and that they had better leave the fighting to Cesare Borgia's men; and
so they fell away and left us a clear road to come at the men-at-arms. But already some forty
of our saddles were empty, and the fight, though brief, had proved exhausting to many of us.

Before us, like an array of mirrors in the October sun, shone the serried ranks of the steel-cased
Borgia soldiers, their lances in rest, waiting to receive us. Their leader, a gigantic man
whose head was armed by no more than a pot of burnished steel, from which escaped the long
red ringlets of his hair, was that same Ramiro del' Orca who had commanded the party pursuing
Madonna Paola three years ago. He was, since, become the most redoubtable of Cesare's captains,
and his name was, perhaps, the best hated in Italy for the grim stories that were connected
with it.

As we rode on he backed to join the foremost rank of his soldiers, and his voice--a voice that
Stentor might have envied--trumpeted a laugh at sight of us.

"Gesu!" he roared, so that I heard him above the thunder of our hoofs. "What has come to Giovanni
Sforza. Has he, perchance, become a man since Madonna Lucrezia divorced him? I will bear her
the news of it, my good Giovanni--my living thunderbolt of Jove!"

His men echoed his boisterous mood, infected by it, and this, I argued, boded ill for the courage
of those that followed me. Another moment and we had swept into them, and many there were who
laughed no more, or went to laugh with those in Hell.

For myself I singled out the blustering Ramiro, and I let him know it by a swinging blow of
my mace upon his morion. It was a most finely-tempered piece of steel, for my stroke made no
impression on it, though Ramiro winced and raised his stout sword to return the compliment.

"Body of God!" he croaked, "you become a very god of war, Giovanni. To me, then, my lusty Mars!
We'll make a fight of it that poets shall sing of over winter fires. Look to yourself!"

His sword caught me a cunning, well-aimed blow on the side of my helm, and thence, glanced
to my shoulder. But for the quality of Giovanni's head-piece of a truth there had been an end
to the warring of a Fool. I smote him back, a mighty blow upon his epauliere that shore the
steel plate from his shoulder, and left him a vulnerable spot. At that he swore ferociously,
and his bloodshot eyes grew wicked as the fiend's. A second time he essayed that side-long
blow upon my helm, and with such force and ready address that he burst the fastening of my
visor on the left, so that it swung down and left my beaver open.

With a cry of triumph he closed with me, and shortened his sword to stab me in the face. And
then a second cry escaped him, for the countenance he beheld was not the countenance he had
looked to see. Instead of the fair skin, the handsome features and the bearded mouth of the
Lord Giovanni, he beheld a shaven face, a hooked nose and a complexion swarthy as the devil's.

"I know you, rogue," he roared. "By the Host! your valour seemed too fierce for Giovanni Sforza.
You are Bocca--"

Exerting all the strength that I had been gradually collecting, I hurled him back with a force
that almost drove him from the saddle, and rising in my stirrups I rained blow after blow upon
his morion ere he could recover.

"Dog!" I muttered softly, "your knowledge shall be the death of you."

He drew away from me at last, and during the moments that I spent in readjusting my visor he
sallied, and charged me again. His blustering was gone and his face grown pale, for such blows
as mine could not have been without effect. Not a doubt of it but he was taken with amazement
to find such fighting qualities in a Fool--an amazement that must have eclipsed even that of
finding Boccadoro in the armour of Giovanni Sforza.

Again he swung his sword in that favourite stroke of his; but this time I caught the edge upon
my mace, and ere he could recover I aimed a blow straight at his face. He lowered his head,
like a bull on the point of charging, and so my blow descended again upon his morion, but with
a force that rolled him, senseless, from the saddle.

Before I could take a breathing space I was beset by, at least, a dozen of his followers who
had stood at hand during the encounter, never doubting that victory must be ultimately with
their invincible captain. They drove me back foot by foot, fighting lustily, and performing--it
was said afterwards by the anxious ones that watched us from the Castle, among whom was Madonna
Paola--such deeds of strength and prowess as never romancer sang of in his wildest flight of fancy.

My men had suffered sorely, but the brave Giacomo still held them together, fired by the example
that I set him, until in the end the day was ours. Discouraged by the disabling of their captain,
so soon as they had gathered him up our opponents thought of nothing but retreat; and retreat
they did, hotly pursued by us, and never allowed to pause or slacken rein until we had hurled
them out of the town of Pesaro, to get them back to Cesare Borgia with the tale of their ignominious
discomfiture.

CHAPTER X. THE FALL OF PESARO

As we rode back through the town of Pesaro, some fifty men of the six score that had sallied
from the Castle a half-hour ago, we found the streets well-nigh deserted, the rebellious citizens
having fled back to the shelter of their homes, like rats to their burrows in time of peril.

As we advanced through the shambles that we had left about the Castle gates, it occurred to
me that within the courtyard a crowd would be waiting to receive and welcome me, and it became
necessary to devise some means of avoiding this reception. I beckoned Giacomo to my side.

"Let it be given out that I will speak to no man until I have rendered thanks to Heaven for
this signal victory," I muttered to the unsuspecting Albanian. "Do you clear a way for me so
soon a we are within."

He obeyed me so well that when the bridge had been let down, he preceded me with a couple of
his men and gently but firmly pressed back those that would have approached--among the first
of whom were Madonna Paola and her brother.

"Way!" he shouted. "Make way for the High and Mighty Lord of Pesaro!"

Thus I passed through, my half-shattered visor sufficiently closed still to conceal my face,
and in this manner I gained the door of the eastern wing and dismounted. Two or three attendants
sprang forward, ready to go with me that they might assist me to disarm. But I waved them imperiously
back, and mounted the stairs alone. Alone I crossed the ante-chamber, and tapped at the door
of the Lord Giovanni's closet. Instantly it opened, for he had watched my return and been awaiting
me. Hastily he drew me in and closed the door.

He was flushed with excitement and trembling like a leaf. Yet at the sight that I presented
he lost some of his high colour, and recoiled to stare at my armour, battered, dinted, and
splashed with browning stains, which loudly proclaimed the fray through which I had been.

He fell to praising my valour, to speaking of the great service I had rendered him, and of
the gratitude that he would ever entertain for me, all in terms of a fawning, cloying sweetness
that disgusted me more than ever his cruelties had done. I took off my helmet whilst he spoke,
and let it fall with a crash. The face I revealed to him was livid with fatigue, and blackened
with the dust that had caked upon my sweat. He came forward again and helped hastily to strip
off my harness, and when that was done he fetched a great silver basin and a ewer of embossed
gold from which he poured me fragrant rose-water that I might wash. Macerated sweet herbs he
found me, lupin meal and glasswort, the better that I might cleanse myself; and when, at last,
I was refreshed by my ablutions, he poured me a goblet of a full-bodied golden wine that seemed
to infuse fresh life into my veins. And all the time he spoke of the prowess I had shown, and
lamented that all these years he should have had me at his Court and never guessed my worth.

At length I turned to resume my clothes. And since it must excite comment and perhaps arouse
suspicion were I to appear in any but my jester's garish livery, I once more assumed my foliated
cape, my cap and bells.

"Wear it yet for a little while," he said, "and thus complete the service you have done me.
Presently you may doff it for all time, and resume your true estate. Biancomonte, as I promised
you, shall be yours again. The Lord of Pesaro does not betray his word."

I smiled grimly at the pride of his utterance.

"It is an easy thing," said I, "freely to give that which is no longer ours."

He coloured with the anger that was ever ready.

"What shall that mean?" he asked.

"Why, that in a few days you will have Cesare Borgia here, and you will be Lord of Pesaro no
more. I have saved your honour for you. More than that it were idle to attempt."

"Think not that I shall submit," he cried. "I shall find in Italy the help I need to return
and drive the usurper out. You must have faith in that, yourself, else had you never bargained
with me as you have done for the return of your Estates."

To that I answered nothing, but urged him to go below and show himself; and the better that
he might bear himself among his courtiers, I detailed to him the most salient features of that
fight.

He went, not without a certain uneasiness which, however, was soon dispelled by the thunder
of acclamation with which he was received; not only by his courtiers, but by the soldiers who
had fought in that hot skirmish, and who believed that it was he had led them.

Meanwhile I sat above, in the closet he had vacated, and thence I watched him, with such mingling
feelings in my heart as baffle now my halting pen. Scorn there was in my mood and a hot contempt
of him that he could stand there and accept their acclamation with an air of humility that
I am persuaded was assumed: a certain envious anger was there, too, to think that such a weak-kneed,
lily-livered craven should receive the plaudits of the deeds that I, his buffoon, had performed
for him. Those acclamations were not for him, although those who acclaimed him thought so.
They were for the man who had routed Ramiro del' Orca and his followers, and that man assuredly
was I. Yet there I crouched above, behind the velvet curtains where none might see me, whilst
he stood smiling and toying with his brown beard and listening to the fine words of praise
that, I could imagine, were falling from the lips of Madonna Paola, who had drawn near and
was speaking to him.

There is in my nature a certain love of effectiveness, a certain taste for theatrical parade
and the contriving of odd situations. This bent of mine was whispering to me then to throw
wide the window, and, stemming their noisy plaudits, announce to them the truth of what had
passed. Yet what if I had done so? They would have accounted it but a new jest of Boccadoro,
the Fool, and one so ill-conceived that they might urge the Lord Giovanni to have him whipped
for it.

Aye, it would have been a folly, a futile act that would have earned me unbelief, contempt
and anger. And yet there was a moment when jealousy urged me almost headlong to that rashness.
For in Madonna Paola's eyes there was a new expression as they rested on the face of Giovanni
Sforza--an expression that told me she had come to love this man whom a little while ago she
had despised.

God! was there ever such an irony? Was there ever such a paradox? She loved him, and yet it
was not him she loved. The man she loved was the man who had shown the qualities of his mind
in the verses with which the Court was ringing; the man who had that morning given proof of
his high mettle and knightly prowess by the deeds of arms he had performed. I was that man--not
he at whom so adoringly she looked. And so--I argued, in my warped way and with the philosophy
worthy of a Fool--it was I whom she loved, and Giovanni was but the symbol that stood for me.
He represented the songs and the deeds that were mine.

But if I did not throw wide that window and proclaim the fact to ears that would have been
deaf to the truth of them, what think you that I did? I took a subtler vengeance. I repaired
to my own chamber, procured me pen and ink, and, there, with a heart that was brimming over
with gall, I penned an epic modelled upon the stately lines of Virgil, wherein I sang the prowess
of the Lord Giovanni Sforza, describing that morning's mighty feat of arms, and detailing each
particular of the combat 'twixt Giovanni and Ramiro del' Orca.

It was a brave thing when it was done; a finer and worthier poetical achievement than any that
I had yet encompassed, and that night, after they had supped, as merrily as though Duke Valentino
had never been heard of, and whilst they were still sitting at their wine, I got me a lute
and stole down to the banqueting hall.

I announced myself by leaping on a table and loudly twanging the strings of my instrument.
There was a hush, succeeded by a burst of acclamation. They were in a high good-humour, and
the Fool with a new song was the very thing they craved.

When silence was restored I began, and whilst my fingers moved sluggishly across the strings,
striking here and there a chord, I recited the epic I had penned. My voice swelled with a feverish
enthusiasm whose colossal irony none there save one could guess. He, at first surprised, grew
angry presently, as I could see by the cloud that had settled on his brow. Yet he restrained
himself, and the rest of the company were too enthralled by the breathless quality of my poem
to bestow their glances on any countenance save mine.

Madonna Paola sat upon the Lord of Pesaro's right, and her blue eyes were round and her lips
parted with enthusiasm as I proceeded. And when presently I came to that point in the fight
betwixt Giovanni and Ramiro del' Orca, when Ramiro, having broken down the Lord Giovanni's
visor, was on the point of driving his sword into his adversary's face, I saw her shrink in
a repetition of the morning's alarm, and her bosom heaved more swiftly, as though the issue
of that combat hung now upon my lines and she were made anxious again for the life of the man
whom she had learnt to love.

I finished on a slow and stately rhythm, my voice rising and falling softly, after the manner
of a Gregorian chant, as I dwelt on the piety that had succeeded the Lord of Pesaro's brave
exploits, and how upon his return from the stricken field he had repaired straight to his closet,
his battered and bloody harness on his back, that he might kneel ere he disarmed and render
thanks to God for the victory vouchsafed him.

On that "Te Deum" I finished softly, and as my voice ceased and the vibration of my last chord
melted away, a thunder of applause was my reward.

Men leapt from their chairs in their enthusiasm, and crowded round the table on which I was
perched, whilst, when presently I sprang down, one noble woman kissed me on the lips before
them all, saying that my mouth was indeed a mouth of gold.

Madonna Paola was leaning towards the Lord Giovanni, her eyes shining with excitement and filmed
with tears as they proudly met his glance, and I knew that my song had but served to endear
him the more to her by causing her to realise more keenly the brave qualities of the adventure
that I sang. The sight of it almost turned me faint, and I would have eluded them and got away
as I had come but that they lifted me up and bore me so to the table at which the Lord Giovanni
sat. He smiled, but his face was very pale. Could it be that I had touched him? Could it be
that I had driven the iron into his soul, and that he could not bear to confront me, knowing
what a dastard I must deem him?

The splendid Filippo of Santafior had risen to his feet, and was waving a white, bejewelled
hand in an imperious demand for silence. When at last it came he spoke, his voice silvery and
his accents mincing.

"Lord of Pesaro; I demand a boon. He who for years has suffered the ignominy of the motley
is at last revealed to us as a poet of such magnitude of soul and richness of expression that
he would not suffer by comparison with the great Bojardo or tim greater Virgil. Let him be
stripped for ever of that hideous garb he wears, and let him be treated, hereafter, with the
dignity his high gifts deserve. Thus shall the day come when Pesaro will take honour in calling
him her son."

Loud and long was the applause that succeeded his words, and when at last it had died down,
the Lord Giovanni proved equal to the occasion, like the consummate actor that he was.

"I would," said he, "that these high gifts, of which to-night he has afforded proof, could
have been employed upon a worthier subject. I fear me that since you have heard his epic you
will be prone to overestimate the deed of which it tells the story. I would, too, my friends,"
he continued, with a sigh, "that it were still mine to offer him such encouragement as he deserves.
But I am sorely afraid that my days in Pesaro are numbered, that my sands are all but run--at
least, for a little while. The conqueror is at our gates, and it would be vain to set against
the overwhelming force of his numbers the handful of valiant knights and brave soldiers that
to-day opposed and scattered his forerunners. It is my intention to withdraw, now that my honour
is safe by what has passed, and that none will dare to say that it was through fear that I
fled. Yet my absence, I trust, may be but brief. I go to collect the necessary resources, for
I have powerful friends in this Italy whose interests touching the Duca Valentino go hand in
hand with mine, and who will, thus, be the readier to lend me assistance. Once I have this,
I shall return and then--woe to the vanquished!"

The tide of enthusiasm that had been rising as he spoke, now overflowed. Swords leapt from
their scabbards--mere toy weapons were they, meant more for ornament than offence, yet were
they the earnest of the stouter arms those gentlemen were ready to wield when the time came.
He quieted their clamours with a dignified wave of the hand.

"When that day comes I shall see to it that Boccadoro has his deserts. Meanwhile let the suggestion
of my illustrious cousin be acted upon, and let this gifted poet be arrayed in a manner that
shall sort better with the nobility of his mind that to-night he has revealed to us."

Thus was it that I came, at last, to shed the motley and move among men garbed as themselves.
And with my outward trappings I cast off, too, the name of Boccadoro, and I insisted upon being
known again as Lazzaro Biancomonte.

But in so far as the Court of Pesaro was concerned, this new life upon which I was embarked
was of little moment, for on the Tuesday that followed that first Sunday in October of such
momentous memory, the Lord Giovanni's Court passed out of being.

It came about with his flight to Bologna, accompanied by the Albanian captain and his men,
as well as by several of the knights who had joined in Sunday's fray. Ardently, as I came afterwards
to learn, did he urge Madonna Paola and her brother to go with them, and I believe that the
lady would have done his will in this had not the Lord Filippo opposed the step. He was no
warrior himself, he swore--for it was a thing he made open boast of, affecting to despise all
who followed the coarse trade of arms--and, as for his sister, it was not fitting that she
should go with a fugitive party made up of a handful of knights and some fifty rough mercenaries,
and be exposed to the hardships and perils that must be theirs. Not even when he was reminded
that the advancing conqueror was Cesare Borgia did it affect him, for despite his shallow,
mincing ways, and his paraded scorn of war and warriors, the Lord Filippo was stout enough
at heart. He did not fear the Borgia, he answered serenely, and if he came, he would offer
him such hospitality as lay within his power.

He came at last, did the mighty Cesare, although between his coming and Giovanni's flight a
full fortnight sped. As for myself, I spent the time at the Sforza Palace, whither the Lord
Filippo had carried me as his guest, he being greatly taken with me and determined to become
my patron. We had news of Giovanni, first from Bologna and later from Ravenna, whither he was
fled. At first he talked of returning to Pesaro with three hundred men he hoped to have from
the Marquis of Mantua. But probably this was no more than another piece of that big talk of
his, meant to impress the sorrowing and repining Madonna Paola, who suffered more for him,
maybe, than he suffered himself.

She would talk with me for hours together of the Lord Giovanni, of his mental gifts, and of
his splendid courage and military address, and for all that my gorge rose with jealousy and
with the force of this injustice to myself, I held my peace. Indeed, indeed, it was better
so. For all that I was no longer Boccadoro the Fool, yet as Lazzaro Biancomonte, the poet,
I was not so much better that I could indulge any mad aspirations of my own such as might have
led me to betray the dastard who had arrayed his craven self in the peacock feathers of my
achievements.

In the course of the confidence with which the Lord Filippo honoured me I made bold, on the
eve of Cesare's arrival, to suggest to him that he should remove his sister from the Palace
and send her to the Convent of Santa Caterina whilst the Borgia abode in the town, lest the
sight of her should remind Cesare of the old-time marriage plans which his family had centred
round this lady, and lead to their revival. Filippo heard me kindly, and thanked me freely
for the solicitude which my counsel argued. For the rest, however, it was a counsel that he
frankly admitted he saw no need to follow.

"In the three years that are sped since the Holy Father entertained such plans for the temporal
advancement of his nephew Ignacio, the fortunes of the House of Borgia have so swollen that
what was then a desirable match for one of its members is now scarcely worthy of their attention.
I do not think," he concluded, "that we have the least reason to fear a renewal of that suit."

It may be that I am by nature suspicious and quick to see ignoble motives in men's actions,
but it occurred to me then that the Lord Filippo would not be so greatly put about if indeed
the Borgias were to reopen negotiations for the bestowing of Madonna Paola's hand upon the
Pope's nephew Ignacio. That swelling of the Borgia fortunes which in the three years had taken
place and which, he contended, would render them more ambitious than to seek alliance with
the House of Santafior, rendered them, nevertheless, in his eyes a more desirable family to
be allied with than in the days when he had counselled his sister's flight from Rome. And so,
I thought, despite what stood between her and the Lord Giovanni, Filippo would know no scruple
now in urging her into an alliance with the House of Borgia, should they manifest a willingness
to have that old affair reopened.

On the 29th of that same month of October, Cesare arrived in Pesaro. His entry was a triumphant
procession, and the orderliness that prevailed among the two thousand men-at-arms that he brought
with him was a thing that spoke eloquently for the wondrous discipline enforced by this great
condottiero.

The Lord Filippo was among those that met him, and like the time-server that he was, he placed
the Sforza Palace at his disposal.

The Duca Valentino came with his retinue and the gentlemen of his household, among whom was
ever conspicuous by his great size and red ugliness the Captain Ramiro del' Orca, who now seemed
to act in many ways as Cesare's factotum. This captain, for reasons which it is unnecessary
to detail, I most sedulously avoided.

On the evening of his arrival Cesare supped in private with Filippo and the members of Filippo's
household--that is to say, with Madonna Paola and two of her ladies, and three gentlemen attached
to the person of the Lord Filippo. Cesare's only attendants were two cavaliers of his retinue,
Bartolomeo da Capranica, his Field-Marshal, and Dorio Savelli, a nobleman of Rome.

Cesare Borgia, this man whose name had so terrible a sound in the ears of Italy's little princelings,
this man whose power and whose great gifts of mind had made him the subject of such bitter
envy and fear, until he was the best-hated gentleman in Italy--and, therefore, the most calumniated--was
little changed from that Cardinal of Valencia, in whose service I had been for a brief season.
The pallor of his face was accentuated by the ill-health in which he found himself just then,
and the air of feverish restlessness that had always pervaded him was grown more marked in
the years that were sped, as was, after all, but natural, considering the nature of the work
that had claimed him since he had deposed his priestly vestments. He was splendidly arrayed,
and he bore himself with an imperial dignity, a dignity, nevertheless, tempered with graciousness
and charm, and as I regarded him then, it was borne in upon me that no fitter name could his
godfathers have bestowed on him than that of Cesare.

The Lord Filippo exerted all his powers worthily to entertain his noble and illustrious guest,
and by his extreme, almost servile affability it not only would seem that he had forgotten
the favour and shelter he had received at the hands of the Lord Giovanni, but it confirmed
my suspicions of his willingness to advance his own fortunes by breaking with the fallen tyrant
in so far as his sister was concerned.

Short of actually making the proposal itself, it would seem that Filippo did all in his power
to urge his sister upon the attention of Cesare. But Duke Valentino's mind at that time was
too full of the concerns of conquest and administration to find room for a matter to him so
trifling as the enriching of his cousin Ignacio by a wealthy alliance. To this alone, I thought,
was it due that Madonna Paola escaped the persecution that might then have been hers.

On the morrow Cesare moved on to Rimini, leaving his administrators behind him to set right
the affairs of Pesaro, and ensure its proper governing, in his name, hereafter.

And now that, for the present, my hopes of ever seeing my own wrongs redressed and my estates
returned to me were too slender to justify my remaining longer in Pesaro, I craved of the Lord
Filippo permission to withdraw, telling him frankly that my tardily aroused duty called me
to my widowed mother, whom for some six years I had not seen. He threw no difficulty in the
way of my going; and I was free to depart. And now came the hidden pain of my leave-taking
of Madonna Paola. She seemed to grieve at my departure.

"Lazzaro," she cried, when I had told her of my intention, "do you, too, desert me? And I have
ever held you my best of friends."

I told her of the mother and of the duty that I owed her, whereupon she remonstrated no more,
nor sought to do other than urge me to go to her. And then I spoke of Madonna's kindness to
me, and of the friendship with which she had honoured one so lowly, and in the end I swore,
with my hand on my heart and my soul on my lips, that if ever she had work for me, she would
not need to call me twice.

"This ring, Madonna," said I, "was given me by the Lord Cesare Borgia, and was to have proved
a talisman to open wide for me the door to fortune. It did better service than that, Madonna.
It was the talisman that saved you from your pursuers that day at Cagli, three years ago."

"You remind me, Lazzaro," she cried, "of how much you have sacrificed in my service. Yours
must be a very noble nature that will do so much to serve a helpless lady without any hope
of guerdon."

"Nay, nay," I answered lightly, "you must not make so much of it. It would never have sorted
with my inclinations to have turned man-at-arms. This ring, Madonna, that once has served you,
I beg that you will keep, for it may serve you again."

"I could not, Lazzaro! I could not!" she exclaimed, recoiling, yet without any show of deeming
presumptuous my words or of being offended by them.

"If you would make me the reward that you say I have earned, you will do this for me. It will
make me happier, Madonna. Take it"--I thrust it into her unwilling hand--"and if ever you should
need me send it back to me. That ring and the name of the place where you abide by the lips
of the messenger you choose, and with a glad heart, as fast as horse can bear me, shall I ride
to serve you once again."

"In such a spirit, yes," said she. "I take it willingly, to treasure it as a buckler against
danger, since by means of it I can bring you to my aid in time of peril."

"Madonna, do not overestimate my powers," I besought her. "I would have you see in me no more
than I am. But it sometimes happens that the mouse may aid the lion."

"And when I need the lion to aid the mouse, my good Lazzaro, I will send for you."

There were tears in her voice, and her eyes were very bright.

"Addio, Lazzaro," she murmured brokenly. "May God and His saints protect you. I will pray for
you, and I shall hope to see you again some day, my friend."

"Addio, Madonna!" was all that I could trust myself to say ere I fled from her presence that
she might not see my deep emotion, nor hear the sobs that were threatening to betray the anguish
that was ravaging my soul.

PART II. THE OGRE OF CESENA

CHAPTER XI. MADONNA'S SUMMONS

However great the part that my mother--sainted woman that she was--may have played in my life,
she nowise enters into the affairs of this chronicle, so that it would be an irrelevance and
an impertinence to introduce her into these pages. Of the joy with which she welcomed me to
the little home near Biancomonte, in which the earnings of Boccadoro the Fool had placed her,
it could interest you but little to read in detail, nor could it interest you to know of the
gentle patience with which she cheered and humoured me during the period that I sojourned there,
tilling the little plot she owned, reaping and garnering like any born villano. With a woman's
quick intuition she guessed perhaps the canker that was eating at my heart, and with a mother's
blessed charity she sought to soothe and mitigate my pain.

It was during this period of my existence that the poetic gifts I had discovered myself possessed
of whilst at Pesaro, burst into full bloom; and not a little relief did I find in the penning
of those love-songs--the true expression of what was in my heart--which have since been given
to the world under the title of Le Rime di Boccadoro. And what time I tended my mother's land
by day, and wrote by night of the feverish, despairing love that was consuming me, I waited
for the call that, sooner or later, I knew must come. What prophetic instinct it was had rooted
that certainty in my heart I do not pretend to say. Perhaps my hope was of such a strength
that it assumed the form of certainty to solace the period of my hermitage. But that some day
Madonna Paola's messenger would arrive bringing me the Borgia ring, I was as confident as that
some day I must die.

