"Then it's time she got a little imagination herself!" snapped my companion. "David Beasley's
the quietest man God has made, but everybody knows what he IS! There are some rare people in
this world that aren't all TALK; there are some still rarer ones that scarcely ever talk at
all--and David Beasley's one of them. I don't know whether it's because he can't talk, or if
he can and hates to; I only know he doesn't. And I'm glad of it, and thank the Lord he's put
a few like that into this talky world! David Beasley's smile is better than acres of other
people's talk. My Providence! Wouldn't anybody, just to look at him, know that he does better
than talk? He THINKS! The trouble with Ann Apperthwaite was that she was too young to see it. Mrs.
Stowe narrates a little episode in the former paper in her remarkable book . The heroine of this
episode is Eliza who is female slave of Mr.Shelby"s estate. The next story is about Tom who
transferred from hand to hand . The writer take it as a opportunity to describe the life and
feelings of the slave owners and the dangerous condition of the society in the South. Tom
was jet black in colour but honest and trustworthy and his master
valued him for his character.

But because of some circumstances he was departed from his master and came into the hands of
a slave trader. He was very sad because of the seperation from his beloved wife and children.
But he was very positive in his attitude and faced the faith with courage. He was pious and
hopeful. He thanked the little lady Eva for her intentions.But Eva when the boat moved leaned
on the railings and cried that she wanted him.  Tom was purchased,and paid for. St.Clare forwarded
Eva to his newly acquired property.The description of this mansion is splendid as the mansion
itself. The authoress description of the character of Eva make us fond of this little mistress.She
has uncommon talents and a very delicate health. Eva is kind to everyone. Even to Topsy a negro
girl who always lies and steals whenever there is a chance.Everyone is fed up of Topsy except
the gentle Eva.When caught in a new theft she led away by Eva. Every servant in the mansion
want to do anything they can do for Eva especially Tom. But when St.Clare was killed in a quarrel
in a coffee room his trustees made the family to sell the whole servants of their establishment
including Tom in the open market.

All the servants awaited for their turn with anxious and dejected
faces.Tom the poor negro was treated so brutally by his new master.

He was wrought hard under a burning sun, starved and abused.And this led to the decline of his
health and the story ends at his death. Eventhough he was treated so unkind he forgave his inhuman
task master

.

"Why, of course he talks," she returned, "when there's any real use in it. And he talks to
children; he's THAT kind of man." 

The carvings depicted belief in endless nature and identification of a divine being, which were
the primary aspects of all religions. There are more stelae which have a royal car touch. There are
four elliptical rings on which words are carved found on one of them. This implies a story
of disgrace since names have been removed when it was the age for
remembering things.

A jackal is being inscribed on another stela which stands for the genius of the departed who has
received offerings from his friends. People who aspire to learn about these will also find
that these monuments come from the age of Joseph.

The name Osortosen is being engraved upon it in two places.

It may be the name of the Pharoah whose wife is Asenath, whose father was Potiphorah, the
priest of On. He was also the one who raised the obelisk at Heliopolis.
Engraved in low relief and cavo-relievo there is another stela, which is colored and magnificent. As
this belongs to Manetho’s sixth dynasty it is evidently very old.

    Another very old one found in the
     very collection, which happens to be
     that of the historian of the period when the
     pyramids were constructed.

Intaglio and relieve are used in this and it is marvelously implemented and the surface is
polished. Granite, syenite, limestone, travertine of the Italians and sandstone are used in these
stelae which make them very rich collections.
These monuments had the tombs of Egypt; Karnac is depicted by a part of its great obelisk and
Rome has provided a cinerary urn which contained bones which are left over from cremation
and many funereal tablets and an altar.

An extensive collection of pottery from Etruria and Italy are also found in another room in the
same floor. There were also pottery found in Britain which were Samian
ware, articles from Pompeii, Carthage and South America.

There were about six hundred Etruscan vases made of terra cotta in the central case which filled
it. Learned people suspect if these are Grecian or not. Bossi says that these are the first
manufacture for the Tuscans in his work in Italy but others strongly
argue that they are Grecian.

Though the objects belong to Grecians, they were traded by Etruscans.

Athens is popular for its art of pottery which had enormous precision. Tuscans used these vessels
to bury their dead and it is a truth.

Yet keeping them in sepulchers is not a custom of these people and this tradition was brought
to them by the people who settled from Greece. Etrsucan Vases are made of a special material
and in this place the sepulchral lamps are also found to be made of similar material. A number
of Roman fibulae and bracelets are also found at Treves, along with
these and some more excavated in England.

Several ancient artifacts of Rome were also found at Hoy Lake, near
Liverpool.

Yet we cannot go deep into this matter; we need to concentrate on the things found in the dwellings
in that place.


"Some day I want to take you over next door," he said, cordially, as I came up. "You ought
to know Beasley, especially as I hear you're doing some political reporting. Dave Beasley's
going to be the next governor of this state, you know." He laughed, offered me a cigar, and
we sat down together on the front steps.

"From all I hear," I rejoined, "YOU ought to know who'll get it." (It was said in town that
Dowden would "come pretty near having the nomination in his pocket.")

"I expect you thought I shifted the subject pretty briskly the other day?" He glanced at me
quizzically from under the brim of his black felt hat. "I meant to tell you about that, but
the opportunity didn't occur. You see--"

"I understand," I interrupted. "I've heard the story. You thought it might be embarrassing
to Miss Apperthwaite."

"I expect I was pretty clumsy about it," said Dowden, cheerfully. Lord Wellington wanted to make
a visit to a monastery near Lisbon, lady abbess thought this was a good idea, when Mackinnon
heard about this, he thought to get clandestinely within the sacred walls, and it was generally
assumed that it is not his first, nor his second visit. He left the sentence unfinished, save for a vocal
click of compassion. "They bow when they happen to meet, but they haven't exchanged a word
since the night she sent him away, long ago." He shook his head, then his countenance cleared
and he chuckled. "Well, sir, Dave's got something at home to keep him busy enough, these days,
I expect!" 

11, 12.

Therefore, it is no parity whatsoever between the two companies and
their teachings.

In the persecution of the Cathars with bitterness, the Church really acted in the public good.
The State was obliged to help by force, unless you want to perish herself with the whole social
order. This explains and justifies a certain degree the combined action of Church and State
in the suppression of the Cathar heresy. In order that the French law in accordance with it,
an oath was added to the coronation service at the time of Louis IX, in which the king swore to
exterminate, that is, to banish all heretics from his kingdom. We are inclined to interpret in
this sense the laws of Louis VIII (1226) and Louis IX (April 1228),
to the south of France.

The words refer to the punishment of heretics are a bit vague: "Let them be punished," says
Louis VIII, "with the punishment they deserve."

"Puniantur debited animosity.

The penalties are other specified outrage and condemnation, in short, all the consequences
of exile." [1]
[1] des Roys de France Ordinances, vol. xii, pp. 319, 320.
Louis IX re-enacted this law in the following terms: "We decree that our lords and magistrates
... do his duty in the persecution of heretics." "In ipsis quod faciant debebunt propulsive."
[1] These words in themselves are not very clear, and if we were to interpret the customs of a few
years later, we might think that referred to the death penalty, including the fire, but comparing
them with similar expressions used by Lucio III and Innocent III, we see that involve simply
the penalty of banishment. But finally Hamilton Swift's business took him over to the other side of the water to
live; and he married an English girl, an orphan without any kin. That was about seven years
ago. By this means a gradually increasing or decreasing latest is at each instant indicated at
its due strength. Thus, when this galvanometer is spaced as the receiving-instrument at the end of
a long submarine cable, the motion of the dot of light, consequent onto the completion of a circuit
across the battery, cable, and earth, can be so saw as towards furnish a curve portraying
very exactly the arrival of an electric current. Lines portraying successive gestures at various
speeds can also be elicited, and, via processes of a metronome, dots and rushes can be posted
with nearly heavenly regularity via an ordinary Morse key, and the
counterpart corrections within the latest at the obtaining end of
the cable exactly observed.

A system of arbitrary souls, allied towards those consumed upon the Morse telegraph, was used, and
the letter towards be indicated was desperate via the number of oscillations of the needle,
as well as via the length of moment during which the needle remained within one place. The driver,
whom monitored the reflection of the deflected needle within the mirror, held a key within his
hand communicating with a locally organ within the office, which he pressed down or elevated,
according towards the deflection of the needle; and another driver deciphered the souls hence caused
upon the paper. This mode of telegraphing was, of necessity, very slow, and it shall not secret
the reader that the fastest rate of hurry again the cable did not exceed three vocabulary per
minute. Still, had the old cable persisted within campaign a few months longer, experience and
tradition would possess enabled the driver towards transmit and obtain with very much increased facility.
On our land-lines, operators of long experience acquire a dexterity which enables them not alone
towards transmit and obtain telegrams with wonderful rapidity, but towards profession the organs
during storms, when those of less experience would be unable towards obtain a dot.
 Dave got well acquainted with 'em on the train
on the way home, and they certainly are giving him a lively time. Ho, ho! Getting him up at
four in the morning--"

