With these words he drew a clasp-knife from his pocket, and, advancing to a glass, applied
it so vigorously to the leathern straps of his headpiece, that the gordian knot was cut, without
any other damage to his face than a moderate scarification, which, added to the tumefaction
of features naturally strong, and a whole week's growth of a very bushy beard, produced on
the whole a most hideous caricatura.  After all, there was a necessity for the administration
of the surgeon, who found divers contusions on different parts of the skull, which even the
tin cap had not been able to protect from the weapons of the rustics.

These being shaved and dressed secundum artem, and the operator dismissed with a proper acknowledgment,
our knight detached one of the post-boys to the field of action for intelligence concerning
Mr. Clarke and squire Timothy, and, in the interim, desired to know the particulars of Crowe's
adventures since he parted from him at the White Hart.

A connected relation, in plain English, was what he had little reason to expect from the novice,
who, nevertheless, exerted his faculties to the uttermost for his satisfaction.  He give him
to understand, that in steering his course to Birmingham, where he thought of fitting himself
with tackle, he had fallen in, by accident, at a public-house, with an itinerant tinker, in
the very act of mending a kettle; that, seeing him do his business like an able workman, he
had applied to him for advice, and the tinker, after having considered the subject, had undertaken
to make him such a suit of armour as neither sword nor lance should penetrate; that they adjourned
to the next town, where the leather coat, the plates of tinned iron, the lance, and the broadsword,
were purchased, together with a copper saucepan, which the artist was now at work upon in converting
it to a shield; but in the meantime, the captain, being impatient to begin his career of chivalry,
had accommodated himself with a pot-lid, and taken to the highway, notwithstanding all the
entreaties, tears, and remonstrances of his nephew, Tom Clarke, who could not however be prevailed
upon to leave him in the dangerous voyage he had undertaken.

That this being but the second day of his journey, he descried five or six men on horseback
bearing up full in his teeth, upon which he threw his sails aback, and prepared for action;
that he hailed them at a considerable distance, and bade them bring to; when they came alongside,
notwithstanding his hail, he ordered them to clew up their courses, and furl their topsails,
otherwise he would be foul of their quarters; that, hearing this salute, they luffed all at
once, till their cloth shook in the wind; then he hallooed in a loud voice, that his sweetheart,
Besselia Mizzen, were the broad pendant of beauty, to which they must strike their topsails
on pain of being sent to the bottom; that, after having eyed him for some time with astonishment,
they clapped on all their sails, some of them running under his stern, and others athwart his
forefoot, and got clear off; that, not satisfied with running ahead, they all of a sudden tacked
about, and one of them boarding him on the lee-quarter, gave him such a drubbing about his
upper works, that the lights danced in his lanterns; that he returned the salute with his hop-pole
so effectually that his aggressor broached to in the twinkling of a handspike, and then he
was engaged with all the rest of the enemy, except one, who sheered off, and soon returned
with a mosquito fleet of small craft, who had done him considerable damage, and, in all probability,
would have made prize of him, had n't he been brought off by the knight's gallantry.  He said,
that in the beginning of the conflict Tom Clarke rode up to the foremost of the enemy, as he
did suppose in order to prevent hostilities, but before he got up to him near enough to hold
discourse, he was pooped with a sea that almost sent him to the bottom, and then towed off
he knew not whither.

Crowe had scarce finished his narration, which consisted of broken hints and unconnected explosions
of sea terms, when a gentleman of the neighbourhood, who acted in the commission of the peace,
arrived at the gate, attended by a constable, who had in custody the bodies of Thomas Clarke
and Timothy Crabshaw, surrounded by five men on horseback, and an innumerable posse of men,
women, and children, on foot.  The captain, who always kept a good look-out, no sooner descried
this cavalcade and procession, than he gave notice to Sir Launcelot, and advised that they
should crowd away with all the cloth they could carry.  Our adventurer was of another opinion,
and determined, at any rate, to procure the enlargement of the prisoners.

The justice, ordering his attendants to stay without the gate, sent his compliments to Sir
Launcelot Greaves, and desired to speak with him for a few minutes.  He was immediately admitted,
and could not help staring at sight of Crowe, who, by this time, had no remains of the human
physiognomy, so much was the swelling increased and the skin discoloured. The gentleman, whose
name was Mr. Elmy, having made a polite apology for the liberty he had taken, proceeded to
unfold his business.  He said, information had been lodged with him, as a justice of the peace,
against two armed men on horseback, who had stopped five farmers on the king's highway, put
them in fear and danger of their lives, and even assaulted, maimed, and wounded divers persons,
contrary to the king's peace, and in violation of the statute; that, by the description, he
supposed the knight and his companion to be the persons against whom the complaint had been
lodged; and, understanding his quality from Mr. Clarke, whom he had known in London, he was
come to wait upon him, and, if possible, effect an accommodation.

Our adventurer having thanked him for the polite and obliging manner in which he proceeded,
frankly told him the whole story, as it had been just related by the captain; and Mr. Elmy
had no reason to doubt the truth of the narrative, as it confirmed every circumstance which
Clarke had before reported.  Indeed, Tom had been very communicative to this gentleman, and
made him acquainted with the whole history of Sir Launcelot Greaves, as well as with the whimsical
resolution of his uncle, Captain Crowe.  Mr. Elmy now told the knight, that the persons whom
the captain had stopped were farmers, returning from a neighbouring market, a set of people
naturally boorish, and at that time elevated with ale to an uncommon pitch of insolence; that
one of them, in particular, called Prickle, was the most quarrelsome fellow in the whole county;
and so litigious, that he had maintained above thirty lawsuits, in eight-and-twenty of which
he had been condemned in costs.  He said the others might be easily influenced in the way of
admonition; but there was no way of dealing with Prickle, except by the form and authority
of the law.  He therefore proposed to hear evidence in a judicial capacity, and his clerk being
in attendance, the court was immediately opened in the knight's apartment.

By this time Mr. Clarke had made such good use of his time in explaining the law to his audience,
and displaying the great wealth and unbounded liberality of Sir Launcelot Greaves, that he
had actually brought over to his sentiments the constable and the commonalty, tag-rag, and
bob-tail, and even staggered the majority of the farmers, who, at first, had breathed nothing
but defiance and revenge.  Farmer Stake being first called to the bar, and sworn touching the
identity of Sir Launcelot Greaves and Captain Crowe, declared, that the said Crowe had stopped
him on the king's highway, and put him in bodily fear; that he afterwards saw the said Crowe
with a pole or weapon, value threepence, breaking the king's peace, by committing assault and
battery against the heads and shoulders of his majesty's liege subjects, Geoffrey Prickle,
Hodge Dolt, Richard Bumpkin, Mary Fang, Catherine Rubble, and Margery Litter; and that he saw
Sir Launcelot Greaves, Baronet, aiding, assisting, and comforting the said Crowe, contrary
to the king's peace, and against the form of the statute.

Being asked if the defendant, when he stopped them, demanded their money, or threatened violence,
he answered he could not say, inasmuch as the defendant spoke in an unknown language.  Being
interrogated if the defendant did not allow them to pass without using any violence, and if
they did not pass unmolested, the deponent replied in the affirmative. Being required to tell
for what reason they returned, and if the defendant Crowe was not assaulted before he began
to use his weapon, the deponent made no answer.  The depositions of farmer Bumpkin and Muggins,
as well as of Madge Litter and Mary Fang, were taken to much the same purpose; and his worship
earnestly exhorted them to an accommodation, observing, that they themselves were in fact the
aggressors, and that Captain Crowe had done no more than exerted himself in his own defence.

They were all pretty well disposed to follow his advice, except farmer Prickle, who, entering
the court with a bloody handkerchief about his head, declared that the law should determine
it at next 'size; and in the meantime insisted that the defendants should find immediate bail,
or go to prison, or be set in the stocks.  He affirmed that they had been guilty of an affray,
in appearing with armour and weapons not usually worn, to the terror of others, which is in
itself a breach of the peace; but that they had, moreover, with force of arms, that is to say,
with swords, staves, and other warlike instruments, by turns, made an assault and affray, to
the terror and disturbance of him and divers subjects of our lord the King, then and there
being, and to the evil and pernicious example of the liege people of the said lord the King,
and against the peace of our said lord the King, his crown and dignity.

The peasant had purchased a few law terms at a considerable expense, and he thought he had
a right to turn his knowledge to the annoyance of all his neighbours.  Mr. Elmy, finding him
obstinately deaf to all proposals of accommodation, held the defendants to very moderate bail,
the landlord and the curate of the parish freely offering themselves as sureties.  Mr. Clarke,
with Timothy Crabshaw, against whom nothing appeared, were now set at liberty; when the former,
advancing to his worship, gave information against Geoffrey Prickle, and declared upon oath
that he had seen him assault Captain Crowe without any provocation; and when he, the deponent,
interposed to prevent further mischief, the said Prickle had likewise assaulted and wounded
him, the deponent, and detained him for some time in false imprisonment, without warrant or
authority.

In consequence of this information, which was corroborated by divers evidences, selected from
the mob at the gate, the tables were turned upon farmer Prickle, who was given to understand,
that he must either find bail, or be forthwith imprisoned.  This honest boor, who was in opulent
circumstances, had made such popular use of the benefits he possessed, that there was not a
housekeeper in the parish who would not have rejoiced to see him hanged.  His dealings and
connexions, however, were such, that none of the other four would have refused to bail him,
had not Clarke given them to understand that, if they did, he would make them all principals
and parties, and have two separate actions against each. Prickle happened to be at variance
with the innkeeper, and the curate durst not disoblige the vicar, who at that very time was
suing the farmer for the small tithes.  He offered to deposit a sum equal to the recognisance
of the knight's bail; but this was rejected, as an expedient contrary to the practice of the
courts.  He sent for the attorney of the village, to whom he had been a good customer; but
the lawyer was hunting evidence in another county.  The exciseman presented himself as a surety;
but he not being an housekeeper, was not accepted.  Divers cottagers, who depended on farmer
Prickle, were successively refused, because they could not prove that they had paid scot and
lot, and parish taxes.

The farmer, finding himself thus forlorn, and in imminent danger of visiting the inside of
a prison, was seized with a paroxysm of rage, during which he inveighed against the bench,
reviled the two adventurers errant, declared that he believed, and would lay a wager of twenty
guineas, that he had more money in his pocket than e'er a man in the company; and in the space
of a quarter of an hour swore forty oaths, which the justice did not fail to number.  "Before
we proceed to other matters," said Mr. Elmy, "I order you to pay forty shillings for the oaths
you have sworn, otherwise I will cause you to be set in the stocks without further ceremony."

Prickle, throwing down a couple of guineas, with two execrations more to make up the sum, declared
that he could afford to pay for swearing as well as e'er a justice in the county, and repeated
his challenge of the wager, which our adventurer now accepted, protesting, at the same time,
that it was not a step taken from any motive of pride, but entirely with a view to punish an
insolent plebeian, who could not otherwise be chastised without a breach of the peace.  Twenty
guineas being deposited on each side in the hands of Mr. Elmy, Prickle, with equal confidence
and despatch, produced a canvas bag, containing two hundred and seventy pounds, which, being
spread upon the table, made a very formidable show, that dazzled the eyes of the beholders,
and induced many of them to believe he had ensured his conquest.

Our adventurer, asking if he had anything further to offer, and being answered in the negative,
drew forth, with great deliberation, a pocket-book, in which there was a considerable parcel
of bank-notes, from which he selected three of one hundred pounds each, and exhibited them
upon the table, to the astonishment of all present.  Prickle, mad with his overthrow and loss,
said, it might be necessary to make him prove the notes were honestly come by; and Sir Launcelot
started up, in order to take vengeance upon him for this insult, but was withheld by the arms
and remonstrances of Mr. Elmy, who assured him that Prickle desired nothing so much as another
broken head, to lay the foundation of a new prosecution.

The knight, calmed by this interposition, turned to the audience, saying, with the most affable
deportment, "Good people, do not imagine that I intend to pocket the spoils of such a contemptible
rascal.  I shall beg the favour of this worthy gentleman to take up these twenty guineas, and
distribute them as he shall think proper among the poor of the parish; but, by this benefaction,
I do not hold myself acquitted for the share I had in the bruises some of you have received
in this unlucky fray, and therefore I give the other twenty guineas to be divided among the
sufferers, to each according to the damage he or she shall appear to have sustained; and I
shall consider it as an additional obligation, if Mr. Elmy will likewise superintend this retribution."

At the close of this address, the whole yard and gateway rung with acclamation, while honest
Crowe, whose generosity was not inferior even to that of the accomplished Greaves, pulled out
his purse, and declared, that, as he had begun the engagement, he would at least go share and
share alike in new caulking their seams, and repairing their timbers. The knight, rather than
enter into a dispute with his novice, told him he considered the twenty guineas as given by
them both in conjunction, and that they would confer together on that subject hereafter.

This point being adjusted, Mr. Elmy assumed all the solemnity of the magistrate, and addressed
himself to Prickle in these words: "Farmer Prickle, I am both sorry and ashamed to see a man
of your years and circumstances so little respected, that you cannot find sufficient bail for
forty pounds; a sure testimony that you have neither cultivated the friendship, nor deserved
the goodwill of your neighbours.  I have heard of your quarrels and your riots, your insolence
and litigious disposition, and often wished for an opportunity of giving you a proper taste
of the law's correction.  That opportunity now offers; you have, in the hearing of all these
people, poured forth a torrent of abuse against me, both in the character of a gentleman and
of a magistrate.  Your abusing me personally perhaps I should have overlooked with the contempt
it deserves, but I should ill vindicate the dignity of my office as a magistrate, by suffering
you to insult the bench with impunity.  I shall therefore imprison you for contempt, and you
shall remain in jail until you can find bail on the other prosecutions."

Prickle, the first transports of his anger having subsided, began to be pricked with the thorns
of compunction; he was indeed extremely mortified at the prospect of being sent to jail so
disgracefully.  His countenance fell; and, after a hard internal struggle, while the clerk
was employed in writing the mittimus, he said he hoped his worship would not send him to prison.
He begged pardon of him, and our adventurers, for having abused them in his passion; and observed,
that, as he had received a broken head, and paid two-and-twenty guineas for his folly, he could
not be said to have escaped altogether without punishment, even if the plaintiff should agree
to exchange releases.

Sir Launcelot, seeing this stubborn rustic effectually humbled, became an advocate in his favour
with Mr. Elmy, and Tom Clarke, who forgave him at his request; and a mutual release being executed,
the farmer was permitted to depart.  The populace were regaled at our adventurer's expense;
and the men, women, and children, who had been wounded or bruised in the battle, to the number
of ten or a dozen, were desired to wait upon Mr. Elmy in the morning, to receive the knight's
bounty.  The justice was prevailed upon to spend the evening with Sir Launcelot and his two
companions, for whom supper was bespoke; but the first thing the cook prepared was a poultice
for Crowe's head, which was now enlarged to a monstrous exhibition.  Our knight, who was all
kindness and complacency, shook Mr. Clarke by the hand, expressing his satisfaction at meeting
with his old friends again; and told him softly, that he had compliments for him from Mrs.
Dolly Cowslip, who now lived with his Aurelia.

Clarke was confounded at this intelligence, and, after some hesitation, "Lord bless my soul!"
cried he, "I'll be shot, then, if the pretended Miss Meadows wa'n't the same as Miss Darnel!"
He then declared himself extremely glad that poor Dolly had got into such an agreeable situation,
passed many warm encomiums on her goodness of heart and virtuous inclinations, and concluded
with appealing to the knight, whether she did not look very pretty in her green joseph.  In
the meantime, he procured a plaster for his own head, and helped to apply the poultice to that
of his uncle, who was sent to bed betimes with a moderate dose of sack-whey, to promote perspiration.
The other three passed the evening to their mutual satisfaction; and the justice, in particular,
grew enamoured of the knight's character, dashed as it was with extravagance.

Let us now leave them to the enjoyment of a sober and rational conversation, and give some
account of other guests, who arrived late in the evening, and here fixed their night quarters.
But as we have already trespassed on the reader's patience, we shall give him a short respite,
until the next chapter makes its appearance.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN

IN WHICH THE RAYS OF CHIVALRY SHINE WITH RENOVATED LUSTRE.

Our hero little dreamed that he had a formidable rival in the person of the knight, who arrived
about eleven, at the sign of the St. George, and, by the noise he made, gave intimation of
his importance.  This was no other than Squire Sycamore, who, having received advice that Miss
Aurelia Darnel had eloped from the place of her retreat, immediately took the field in quest
of that lovely fugitive; hoping that, should he have the good fortune to find her in present
distress, his good offices would not be rejected.  He had followed the chase so close, that,
immediately after our adventurer's departure, he alighted at the inn, from whence Aurelia had
been conveyed; and there he learned the particulars which we have related above.

Mr. Sycamore had a great deal of the childish romantic in his disposition, and, in the course
of his amours, is said to have always taken more pleasure in the pursuit than in the final
possession.  He had heard of Sir Launcelot's extravagance, by which he was in some measure
infected, and he dropped an insinuation, that he could eclipse his rival, even in his own lunatic
sphere.  This hint was not lost upon his companion, counsellor, and buffoon, the facetious
Davy Dawdle, who had some humour, and a great deal of mischief, in his composition.  He looked
upon his patron as a fool, and his patron knew him to be both knave and fool; yet, the two
characters suited each other so well, that they could hardly exist asunder.  Davy was an artful
sycophant, but he did not flatter in the usual way; on the contrary, he behaved en cavalier,
and treated Sycamore, on whose bounty he subsisted, with the most sarcastic familiarity.  Nevertheless,
he seasoned his freedom with certain qualifying ingredients, that subdued the bitterness of
it, and was now become so necessary to the squire, that he had no idea of enjoyment with which
Dawdle was not somehow or other connected.

There had been a warm dispute betwixt them about the scheme of contesting the prize with Sir
Launcelot in the lists of chivalry.  Sycamore had insinuated, that if he had a mind to play
the fool, he could wear armour, wield a lance, and manage a charger, as well as Sir Launcelot
Greaves. Dawdle, snatching the hint, "I had, some time ago," said he, "contrived a scheme for
you, which I was afraid you had not address enough to execute. It would be no difficult matter,
in imitation of the bachelor, Sampson Carrasco, to go in quest of Greaves, as a knight-errant,
defy him as a rival, and establish a compact, by which the vanquished should obey the injunctions
of the victor."--"That is my very idea," cried Sycamore. "--Your idea!" replied the other;
"had you ever an idea of your own conception?"  Thus the dispute began, and was maintained
with great vehemence, until other arguments failing, the squire offered to lay a wager of twenty
guineas.  To this proposal, Dawdle answered by the interjection pish! which inflamed Sycamore
to a repetition of the defiance.  "You are in the right," said Dawdle, "to use such an argument
as you know is by me unanswerable.  A wager of twenty guineas will at any time overthrow and
confute all the logic of the most able syllogist, who has not got a shilling in his pocket."

Sycamore looked very grave at this declaration, and, after a short pause, said, "I wonder,
Dawdle, what you do with all your money?"--"I am surprised you should give yourself that trouble--I
never ask what you do with yours."--"You have no occasion to ask; you know pretty well how
it goes."--"What, do you upbraid me with your favours?--'t is mighty well, Sycamore."--"Nay,
Dawdle, I did not intend to affront."--"Z----s! affront! what d'ye mean?"  "I'll assure you,
Davy, you don't know me, if you think I could be so ungenerous as to--a--to----"--"I always
thought, whatever faults or foibles you might have, Sycamore, that you was not deficient in
generosity,--though to be sure it is often very absurdly displayed."--"Ay, that's one of my
greatest foibles; I can't refuse even a scoundrel, when I think he is in want.--Here, Dawdle,
take that note." --"Not I, sir,--what d'ye mean?--what right have I to your notes?" --"Nay,
but Dawdle,--come."--"By no means; it looks like the abuse of good-nature;--all the world knows
you're good-natured to a fault." --"Come, dear Davy, you shall--you must oblige me."--Thus
urged, Dawdle accepted the bank-note with great reluctance, and restored the idea to the right
owner.

A suit of armour being brought from the garret or armoury of his ancestors, he gave orders
for having the pieces scoured and furbished up; and his heart dilated with joy, when he reflected
upon the superb figure he should make when cased in complete steel, and armed at all points
for the combat.

When he was fitted with the other parts, Dawdle insisted on buckling on his helmet, which weighed
fifteen pounds; and, the headpiece being adjusted, made such a clatter about his ears with
a cudgel, that his eyes had almost started from their sockets.  His voice was lost within the
vizor, and his friend affected not to understand his meaning when he made signs with his gauntlets,
and endeavoured to close with him, that he might wrest the cudgel from his hand.  At length
he desisted, saying, "I'll warrant the helmet sound by its ringing"; and taking it off, found
the squire in a cold sweat.  He would have achieved his first exploit on the spot, had his
strength permitted him to assault Dawdle; but what with want of air, and the discipline he
had undergone, he had well-nigh swooned away; and before he retrieved the use of his members,
he was appeased by the apologies of his companion, who protested he meant nothing more than
to try if the helmet was free of cracks, and whether or not it would prove a good protection
for the head it covered.

His excuses were accepted; the armour was packed up, and next morning Mr. Sycamore set out
from his own house, accompanied by Dawdle, who undertook to perform the part of his squire
at the approaching combat.  He was also attended by a servant on horseback, who had charge
of the armour, and another who blowed the trumpet.  They no sooner understood that our hero
was housed at the George, than the trumpeter sounded a charge, which alarmed Sir Launcelot
and his company, and disturbed honest Captain Crowe in the middle of his first sleep.  Their
next step was to pen a challenge, which, when the stranger departed, was by the trumpeter delivered
with great ceremony into the hands of Sir Launcelot, who read it in these words:--"To the knight
of the Crescent, greeting.  Whereas I am informed you have the presumption to lay claim to
the heart of the peerless Aurelia Darnel, I give you notice that I can admit no rivalship in
the affection of that paragon of beauty; and I expect that you will either resign your pretensions,
or make it appear in single combat, according to the law of arms and the institutions of chivalry,
that you are worthy to dispute her favour with him of the Griffin.--POLYDORE."

Our adventurer was not a little surprised at this address, which however he pocketed in silence,
and began to reflect, not without mortification, that he was treated as a lunatic by some person,
who wanted to amuse himself with the infirmities of his fellow-creatures.  Mr. Thomas Clarke,
who saw the ceremony with which the letter was delivered, and the emotions with which it was
read, hied him to the kitchen for intelligence, and there learned that the stranger was Squire
Sycamore. He forthwith comprehended the nature of the billet, and, in the apprehension that
bloodshed would ensue, resolved to alarm his uncle, that he might assist in keeping the peace.
He accordingly entered the apartment of the captain, who had been waked by the trumpet, and
now peevishly asked the meaning of that d--ned piping, as if all hands were called upon deck?
Clarke having imparted what he knew of the transaction, together with his own conjectures,
the captain said, he did not suppose as how they would engage by candlelight; and that, for
his own part, he should turn out in the larboard watch, long enough before any signals could
be hove out for forming the line.

With this assurance the lawyer retired to his nest, where he did not fail to dream of Mrs.
Dolly Cowslip, while Sir Launcelot passed the night awake, in ruminating on the strange challenge
he had received.  He had got notice that the sender was Mr. Sycamore, and hesitated with himself
whether he should not punish him for his impertinence; but when he reflected on the nature
of the dispute, and the serious consequences it might produce, he resolved to decline the combat,
as a trial of right and merit founded upon absurdity.  Even in his maddest hours, he never
adopted those maxims of knight-errantry which related to challenges.  He always perceived the
folly and wickedness of defying a man to mortal fight, because he did not like the colour of
his beard, or the complexion of his mistress; or of deciding by homicide whether he or his
rival deserved the preference, when it was the lady's prerogative to determine which should
be the happy lover.  It was his opinion that chivalry was an useful institution while confined
to its original purposes of protecting the innocent, assisting the friendless, and bringing
the guilty to condign punishment.  But he could not conceive how these laws should be answered
by violating every suggestion of reason, and every precept of humanity.

Captain Crowe did not examine the matter so philosophically.  He took it for granted that in
the morning the two knights would come to action, and slept sound on that supposition.  But
he rose before it was day, resolved to be somehow concerned in the fray; and understanding
that the stranger had a companion, set him down immediately for his own antagonist.  So impatient
was he to establish this secondary contest, that by daybreak he entered the chamber of Dawdle,
to which he was directed by the waiter, and roused him with a hilloah, that might have been
heard at the distance of half a league.  Dawdle, startled by this terrific sound, sprung out
of bed, and stood upright on the floor, before he opened his eyes upon the object by which
he had been so dreadfully alarmed.  But when he beheld the head of Crowe, so swelled and swathed,
so livid, hideous, and grisly, with a broadsword by his side, and a case of pistols in his
girdle, he believed it was the apparition of some murdered man; his hair bristled up, his teeth
chattered, and his knees knocked; he would have prayed, but his tongue denied its office. 
Crowe seeing his perturbation, "Mayhap, friend," said he, "you take me for a buccaneer; but
I am no such person. --My name is Captain Crowe.--I come not for your silver nor your gold,
your rigging nor your stowage; but hearing as how your friend intends to bring my friend Sir
Launcelot Greaves to action, d'ye see, I desire in the way of friendship, that, while they
are engaged, you and I, as their seconds, may lie board and board for a few glasses to divert
one another, d'ye see."  Dawdle hearing this request, began to retrieve his faculties, and
throwing himself into the attitude of Hamlet when the ghost appears, exclaimed in theatrical
accent,

     Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
     Art thou a spirit of grace, or goblin damn'd?

As he seemed to bend his eye on vacancy, the captain began to think that he really saw something
preternatural, and stared wildly round.  Then addressing himself to the terrified Dawdle, "D--n'd,"
said he, "for what should I be d--n'd?  If you are afeard of goblins, brother, put your trust
in the Lord, and he'll prove a sheet-anchor to you."

"'Ware names, Jack," cried the impatient mariner, "if so be as how you'll bear a hand and rig
yourself, and take a short trip with me into the offing, we'll overhaul this here affair in
the turning of a capstan."

At this juncture they were joined by Mr. Sycamore in his night-gown and slippers.  Disturbed
by Crowe's first salute, he sprung up, and now expressed no small astonishment at first sight
of the novice's countenance.  After having gazed alternately at him and Dawdle, "Who have we
got here?" said he; "raw head and bloody bones?"  When his friend, slipping on his clothes,
gave him to understand that this was a friend of Sir Launcelot Greaves, and explained the purport
of his errand, he treated him with more civility.  He assured him that he should have the pleasure
to break a spear with Mr. Dawdle; and signified his surprise that Sir Launcelot had made no
answer to his letter.  It being by this time clear daylight, and Crowe extremely interested
in this affair, he broke without ceremony into the knight's chamber, and told him abruptly
that the enemy had brought to, and waited for his coming up, in order to begin the action.
"I've hailed his consort," said he, "a shambling, chattering fellow.  He took me first for
a hobgoblin, then called me names, a tiger, a wrynoseo'ross, and a Persian bear; but egad,
if I come athwart him, I'll make him look like the bear and ragged staff before we part,--I wool."

This intimation was not received with that alacrity which the captain expected to find in our
adventurer, who told him in a peremptory tone, that he had no design to come to action, and
desired to be left to his repose.  Crowe forthwith retired crestfallen, and muttered something,
which was never distinctly heard.

About eight in the morning Mr. Dawdle brought him a formal message from the knight of the Griffin,
desiring he would appoint the lists, and give security of the field.  To which request he made
answer in a very composed and solemn accent, "If the person who sent you thinks I have injured
him, let him without disguise or any such ridiculous ceremony, explain the nature of the wrong;
and then I shall give such satisfaction as may suit my conscience and my character.  If he
hath bestowed his affection upon any particular object, and looks upon me as a favourite rival,
I shall not wrong the lady so much as to take any step that may prejudice her choice, especially
a step that contradicts my own reason as much as it would outrage the laws of my country. 
If he who calls himself knight of the Griffin is really desirous of treading in the paths of
true chivalry, he will not want opportunities of signalising his valour in the cause of virtue.--Should
he, notwithstanding this declaration, offer violence to me in the course of my occasions, he
will always find me in a posture of defence.  Or, should he persist in repeating his importunities,
I shall without ceremony chastise the messenger."  His declining the combat was interpreted
into fear by Mr. Sycamore, who now became more insolent and ferocious, on the supposition of
our knight's timidity.  Sir Launcelot meanwhile went to breakfast with his friends, and, having
put on his armour, ordered the horses to be brought forth. Then he paid the bill, and walking
deliberately to the gate, in presence of Squire Sycamore and his attendants, vaulted at one
spring into the saddle of Bronzomarte, whose neighing and curveting proclaimed the joy he felt
in being mounted by his accomplished master.

Though the knight of the Griffin did not think proper to insult his rival personally, his friend
Dawdle did not fail to crack some jokes on the figure and horsemanship of Crowe, who again
declared he should be glad to fall in with him upon the voyage.  Nor did Mr. Clarke's black
patch and rueful countenance pass unnoticed and unridiculed.  As for Timothy Crabshaw, he beheld
his brother squire with the contempt of a veteran; and Gilbert paid him his compliments with
his heels at parting.  But when our adventurer and his retinue were clear of the inn, Mr. Sycamore
ordered his trumpeter to sound a retreat, by way of triumph over his antagonist.

Perhaps he would have contented himself with this kind of victory, had not Dawdle further inflamed
his envy and ambition, by launching out in praise of Sir Launcelot.  He observed that his countenance
was open and manly; his joints strong knit, and his form unexceptionable; that he trod like
Hercules, and vaulted into the saddle like a winged Mercury.  Nay, he even hinted it was lucky
for Sycamore that the knight of the Crescent happened to be so pacifically disposed.  His patron
sickened at these praises, and took fire at the last observation.  He affected to undervalue
personal beauty, though the opinion of the world had been favourable to himself in that particular.
He said he was at least two inches taller than Greaves; and as to shape and air, he would make
no comparisons; but with respect to riding, he was sure he had a better seat than Sir Launcelot,
and would wager five hundred to fifty guineas, that he would unhorse him at the first encounter.
"There is no occasion for laying wagers," replied Mr. Dawdle; "the doubt may be determined
in half an hour--Sir Launcelot is not a man to avoid you at full gallop." Sycamore, after some
hesitation, declared he would follow and provoke him to battle, on condition that Dawdle would
engage Crowe; and this condition was accepted.  For, though Davy had no stomach to the trial,
he could not readily find an excuse for declining it.  Besides, he had discovered the captain
to be a very bad horseman, and resolved to eke out his own scanty valour with a border of ingenuity.
The servants were immediately ordered to unpack the armour, and, in a little time, Mr. Sycamore
made a very formidable appearance.  But the scene that followed is too important to be huddled
in at the end of a chapter; and therefore we shall reserve it for a more conspicuous place
in these memoirs.

CHAPTER NINETEEN

CONTAINING THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE KNIGHTS OF THE GRIFFIN AND CRESCENT.

Mr. Sycamore, alias the knight of the Griffin, so denominated from a griffin painted on his
shield, being armed at all points, and his friend Dawdle provided with a certain implement,
which he flattered himself would ensure a victory over the novice Crowe, they set out from
the George, with their attendants, in all the elevation of hope, and pranced along the highway
that led towards London, that being the road which our adventurer pursued.  As they were extremely
well mounted, and proceeded at a round pace, they, in less than two hours, came up with Sir
Launcelot and his company; and Sycamore sent another formal defiance to the knight by his trumpeter,
Dawdle having, for good reasons, declined that office.

Our adventurer hearing himself thus addressed, and seeing his rival, who had passed him, posted
to obstruct his progress, armed cap-a-pee, with his lance in the rest, determined to give the
satisfaction that was required, and desired that the regulations of the combat might be established.
The knight of the Griffin proposed, that the vanquished party should resign all pretensions
to Miss Aurelia Darnel, in favour of the victor; that, while the principals were engaged, his
friend Dawdle should run a tilt with Captain Crowe; that Squire Crabshaw and Mr. Sycamore's
servant should keep themselves in readiness to assist their respective masters occasionally,
according to the law of arms; and that Mr. Clarke should observe the motions of the trumpeter,
whose province was to sound the charge to battle.

Our knight agreed to these regulations, notwithstanding the earnest and pathetic remonstrances
of the young lawyer, who, with tears in his eyes, conjured all the combatants, in their turns,
to refrain from an action that might be attended with bloodshed and murder; and was contrary
to the laws both of God and man.  In vain he endeavoured to move them by tears and entreaties,
by threatening them with prosecutions in this world, and pains and penalties in the next. 
They persisted in their resolution, and his uncle would have begun hostilities on his carcase,
had he not been prevented by Sir Launcelot, who exhorted Clarke to retire from the field, that
he might not be involved in the consequences of the combat.  He relished this advice so well,
that he had actually moved off to some distance; but his apprehensions and concern for his
friends co-operating with an insatiable curiosity, detained him in sight of the engagement.

The two knights having fairly divided the ground, and the same precautions being taken by the
seconds on another part of the field, Sycamore began to be invaded with some scruples, which
were probably engendered by the martial appearance and well-known character of his antagonist.
The confidence which he derived from the reluctance of Sir Launcelot now vanished, because
it plainly appeared, that the knight's backwardness was not owing to personal timidity; and
he foresaw that the prosecution of this joke might be attended with very serious consequences
to his own life and reputation.  He therefore desired a parley, in which he observed his affection
for Miss Darnel was of such a delicate nature, that, should the discomfiture of his rival contribute
to make her unhappy, his victory must render him the most miserable wretch upon earth.  He
proposed, therefore, that her sentiments and choice should be ascertained before they proceeded
to extremity.

Sir Launcelot declared that he was much more afraid of combating Aurelia's inclination, than
of opposing the knight of the Griffin in arms; and that if he had the least reason to think
Mr. Sycamore, or any other person, was distinguished by her preference, he would instantly
give up his suit as desperate.  At the same time, he observed, that Sycamore had proceeded
too far to retract; that he had insulted a gentleman, and not only challenged, but even pursued
him, and blocked up his passage in the public highway; outrages which he (Sir Launcelot) would
not suffer to pass unpunished.  Accordingly, he insisted on the combat, on pain of treating
Sycamore as a craven, and a recreant.  This declaration was reinforced by Dawdle, who told
him, that, should he now decline the engagement, all the world would look upon him as an infamous
poltroon.

These two observations gave a necessary fillip to the courage of the challenger.  The parties
took their stations.  The trumpet sounded to charge, and the combatants began their career
with great impetuosity.-- Whether the gleam of Sir Launcelot's arms affrighted Mr. Sycamore's
steed, or some other object had an unlucky effect on his eyesight, certain it is he started
at about midway, and gave his rider such a violent shake as discomposed his attitude, and disabled
him from using his lance to the best advantage.  Had our hero continued his career, with his
lance couched, in all probability Sycamore's armour would have proved but a bad defence to
his carcase; but Sir Launcelot perceiving his rival's spear unrested, had just time to throw
up the point of his own, when the two horses closed with such a shock, that Sycamore, already
wavering in the saddle, was overthrown, and his armour crashed around him as he fell.

The victor, seeing him lie without motion, alighted immediately and began to unbuckle his helmet,
in which office he was assisted by the trumpeter. When the headpiece was removed, the hapless
knight of the Griffin appeared in the pale livery of death, though he was only in a swoon,
from which he soon recovered by the effect of the fresh air, and the aspersion of cold water,
brought from a small pool in the neighbourhood.  When he recognised his conqueror doing the
offices of humanity about his person, he closed his eyes from vexation, told Sir Launcelot
that his was the fortune of the day, though he himself owed his mischance to the fault of his
own horse; and observed, that this ridiculous affair would not have happened, but for the mischievous
instigation of that scoundrel Dawdle, on whose ribs he threatened to revenge this mishap.

Perhaps Captain Crowe might have saved him the trouble, had the wag honourably adhered to the
institutions of chivalry, in his conflict with our novice.  But on this occasion, his ingenuity
was more commendable than his courage.  He had provided at the inn a blown bladder, in which
several smooth pebbles were enclosed; and this he slyly fixed on the head of his pole, when
the captain obeyed the signal of battle.  Instead of bearing the brunt of the encounter, he
turned out of the straight line, so as to avoid the lance of his antagonist, and rattled his
bladder with such effect, that Crowe's horse, pricking up his ears, took to his heels, and
fled across some ploughed land with such precipitation, that the rider was obliged to quit
his spear, and lay fast hold on the mane, that he might not be thrown out of the saddle.  Dawdle,
who was much better mounted, seeing his condition, rode up to the unfortunate novice, and belaboured
his shoulders without fear of retaliation.

Mr. Clarke, seeing his kinsman so roughly handled, forgot his fears, and flew to his assistance;
but, before he came up, the aggressor had retired; and now perceiving that fortune had declared
against his friend and patron, very honourably abandoned him in his distress, and went off
at full speed for London.

Nor was Timothy Crabshaw without his share in the noble achievements of this propitious day.
He had by this time imbibed such a tincture of errantry, that he firmly believed himself and
his master equally invincible; and this belief operating upon a perverse disposition, rendered
him as quarrelsome in his sphere, as his master was mild and forbearing.  As he sat on horseback,
in the place assigned to him and Sycamore's lacquey, he managed Gilbert in such a manner, as
to invade with his heels the posteriors of the other's horse; and this insult produced some
altercation which ended in mutual assault.  The footman handled the butt-end of his horsewhip
with great dexterity about the head of Crabshaw, who declared afterwards, that it sung and
simmered like a kettle of cod-fish; but the squire, who understood the nature of long lashes,
as having been a carter from his infancy, found means to twine his thong about the neck of
his antagonist, and pull him off his horse half strangled, at the very instant his master was
thrown by Sir Launcelot Greaves.

Having thus obtained the victory, he did not much regard the punctilios of chivalry; but, taking
it for granted he had a right to make the most of his advantage, resolved to carry off the
spolia opima.  Alighting with great agility, "Brother," cried he, "I think as haw yawrs bean't
a butcher's horse, a doan't carry calves well--I'se make yaw knaw your churning days, I wool--what,
yaw look as if yaw was crow-trodden, you do --now, you shall pay the score you have been running
on my pate, you shall, brother."

So saying, he rifled his pockets, stripped him of his hat and coat, and took possession of
his master's portmanteau.  But he did not long enjoy his plunder.  For the lacquey complaining
to Sir Launcelot of his having been despoiled, the knight commanded his squire to refund, not
without menaces of subjecting him to the severest chastisement for his injustice and rapacity.
Timothy represented, with great vehemence, that he had won the spoils in fair battle, at the
expense of his head and shoulders, which he immediately uncovered, to prove his allegation.
But his remonstrance having no effect upon his master, "Wounds!" cried he, "an I mun gee thee
back the pig, I'se gee thee back the poke also; I'm a drubbing still in thy debt."

With these words, he made a most furious attack upon the plaintiff with his horsewhip, and,
before the knight could interpose, repaid the lacquey with interest.  As an appurtenance to
Sycamore and Dawdle, he ran the risk of another assault from the novice Crowe, who was so transported
with rage at the disagreeable trick which had been played upon him by his fugitive antagonist,
that he could not for some time pronounce an articulate sound, but a few broken interjections,
the meaning of which could not be ascertained.  Snatching up his pole, he ran towards the place
where Mr. Sycamore sat on the grass, supported by the trumpeter, and would have finished what
our adventurer had left undone, if the knight of the Crescent, with admirable dexterity, had
not warded off the blow which he aimed at the knight of the Griffin, and signified his displeasure
in a resolute tone.  Then he collared the lacquey, who was just disengaged from the chastising
hand of Crabshaw, and swinging his lance with his other hand, encountered the squire's ribs
by accident.

Timothy was not slow in returning the salutation with the weapon which he still wielded.  Mr.
Clarke running up to the assistance of his uncle, was opposed by the lacquey, who seemed extremely
desirous of seeing the enemy revenge his quarrel, by falling foul of one another.  Clarke,
thus impeded, commenced hostilities against the footman, while Crowe grappled with Crabshaw;
a battle-royal ensued, and was maintained with great vigour, and some bloodshed on all sides,
until the authority of Sir Launcelot, reinforced by some weighty remonstrances applied to the
squire, put an end to the conflict.  Crabshaw immediately desisted, and ran roaring to communicate
his grievances to Gilbert, who seemed to sympathise very little with his distress.  The lacquey
took to his heels; Mr. Clarke wiped his bloody nose, declaring he had a good mind to put the
aggressor in the Crown-office; and Captain Crowe continued to ejaculate unconnected oaths;
which, however, seemed to imply that he was almost sick of his new profession.  "D--n my eyes,
if you call this--start my timbers, brother--look ye, d'ye see--a lousy, lubberly, cowardly
son of a--among the breakers, d'ye see--lost my steerage way--split my binnacle; bawl away--O!
d--n all arrantry--give me a tight vessel, d'ye see, brother--mayhap you may n't--snatch my--sea-room
and a spanking gale-- odds heart, I'll hold a whole year's--smite my limbs; it don't signify
talking."

Our hero consoled the novice for his disaster, by observing that if he had got some blows he
had lost no honour.  At the same time he observed, that it was very difficult, if not impossible,
for a man to succeed in the paths of chivalry, who had passed the better part of his days in
other occupations, and hinted that, as the cause which had engaged him in this way of life
no longer existed, he was determined to relinquish a profession which, in a peculiar manner,
exposed him to the most disagreeable incidents.  Crowe chewed the cud upon this insinuation,
while the other personages of the drama were employed in catching the horses, which had given
their riders the slip.  As for Mr. Sycamore, he was so bruised by his fall, that it was necessary
to procure a litter for conveying him to the next town, and the servant was despatched for
this convenience, Sir Launcelot staying with him until it arrived.

When he was safely deposited in the carriage, our hero took leave of him in these terms: "I
shall not insist upon your submitting to the terms you yourself proposed before this rencontre.
I give you free leave to use all your advantages, in an honourable way, for promoting your
suit with the young lady of whom you profess yourself enamoured.  Should you have recourse
to sinister practices, you will find Sir Launcelot Greaves ready to demand an account of your
conduct, not in the character of a lunatic knight-errant, but as a plain English gentleman,
jealous of his honour, and resolute in his purpose."

To this address Mr. Sycamore made no reply, but with a sullen aspect ordered the carriage to
proceed; and it moved accordingly to the right, our hero's road to London lying in the other
direction.

Sir Launcelot had already exchanged his armour for a riding-coat, hat, and boots; and Crowe,
parting with his skull-cap and leathern jerkin, regained, in some respects, the appearance
of a human creature.  Thus metamorphosed, they pursued their way in an easy pace, Mr. Clarke
endeavouring to amuse them with a learned dissertation on the law, tending to demonstrate that
Mr. Sycamore was, by his behaviour on that day, liable to three different actions, besides
a commission of lunacy; and that Dawdle might be prosecuted for having practised subtle craft
to the annoyance of his uncle, over and above an action for assault and battery; because, for
why?  The said Crowe having run away, as might be easily proved, before any blows were given,
the said Dawdle, by pursuing him even out of the highroad, putting him in fear, and committing
battery on his body, became to all intents and purposes the aggressor; and an indictment would
lie in Banco Regis.

The captain's pride was so shocked at these observations, that he exclaimed with equal rage
and impatience, "You lie, you dog, in Bilcum Regis--you lie, I say, you lubber, I did not run
away; nor was I in fear, d'ye see.  It was my son of a bitch of a horse that would not obey
the helm, d'ye see, whereby I cou'd n't use my metal, d'ye see.  As for the matter of fear,
you and fear may kiss my--So don't go and heave your stink-pots at my character, d'ye see,
or--agad I'll trim thee fore and aft with a--I wool."  Tom protested he meant nothing but a
little speculation, and Crowe was appeased.

In the evening they reached the town of Bugden without any farther adventure, and passed the
night in great tranquillity.

Next morning, even after the horses were ordered to be saddled, Mr. Clarke, without ceremony,
entered the apartment of Sir Launcelot, leading in a female, who proved to be the identical
Mrs. Dolly Cowslip.  This young woman, advancing to the knight, cried, "O Sir Launcelot! my
dear leady, my dear leady!"--but was hindered from proceeding by a flood of tears, which the
tender-hearted lawyer mingled with a plentiful shower of sympathy.

Our adventurer starting at this exclamation, "O heavens!" cried he, "where is my Aurelia? speak,
where did you leave that jewel of my soul? answer me in a moment--I am all terror and impatience!"

Dolly, having recollected herself, told him that Mr. Darnel had lodged his niece in the new
buildings by May Fair; that, on the second night after their arrival, a very warm expostulation
had passed between Aurelia and her uncle, who next morning dismissed Dolly, without permitting
her to take leave of her mistress, and that same day moved to another part of the town, as
she afterwards learned of the landlady, though she could not inform her whither they were gone.
That, when she was turned away, John Clump, one of the footmen, who pretended to have a kindness
for her, had faithfully promised to call upon her, and let her know what passed in the family;
but as he did not keep his word, and she was an utter stranger in London, without friends or
settlement, she had resolved to return to her mother, and travelled so far on foot since yesterday
morning.

Our knight, who had expected the most dismal tidings from her lamentable preamble, was pleased
to find his presaging fears disappointed; though he was far from being satisfied with the dismission
of Dolly, from whose attachment to his interest, joined to her influence over Mr. Clump, he
had hoped to reap such intelligence as would guide him to the haven of his desires.  After
a minute's reflection, he saw it would be expedient to carry back Mrs. Cowslip, and lodge her
at the place where Mr. Clump had promised to visit her with intelligence; for, in all probability,
it was not for want of inclination that he had not kept his promise.

Dolly did not express any aversion to the scheme of returning to London, where she hoped once
more to rejoin her dear lady, to whom by this time she was attached by the strongest ties of
affection; and her inclination in this respect was assisted by the consideration of having
the company of the young lawyer, who, it plainly appeared, had made strange havoc in her heart,
though it must be owned, for the honour of this blooming damsel, that her thoughts had never
once deviated from the paths of innocence and virtue.  The more Sir Launcelot surveyed this
agreeable maiden, the more he felt himself disposed to take care of her fortune; and from this
day he began to ruminate on a scheme which was afterwards consummated in her favour.  In the
meantime he laid injunctions on Mr. Clarke to conduct his addresses to Mrs. Cowslip according
to the rules of honour and decorum, as he valued his countenance and friendship.  His next
step was to procure a saddle-horse for Dolly, who preferred this to any other sort of carriage,
and thereby gratified the wish of her admirer, who longed to see her on horseback in her green
joseph.

The armour, including the accoutrements of the novice and the squire, were left in the care
of the inn-keeper, and Timothy Crabshaw was so metamorphosed by a plain livery-frock, that
even Gilbert with difficulty recognised his person.  As for the novice Crowe, his head had
almost resumed its natural dimensions, but then his whole face was so covered with a livid
suffusion, his nose appeared so flat, and his lips so tumefied, that he might very well have
passed for a Caffre or Ethiopian. Every circumstance being now adjusted, they departed from
Bugden in a regular cavalcade, dined at Hatfield, and in the evening arrived at the Bull and
Gate Inn in Holborn, where they established their quarters for the night.

CHAPTER TWENTY

IN WHICH OUR HERO DESCENDS INTO THE MANSION OF THE DAMNED.

The first step which Sir Launcelot took in the morning that succeeded his arrival in London
was to settle Mrs. Dolly Cowslip in lodgings at the house where John Clump had promised to
visit her; as he did not doubt, that, though the visit was delayed, it would some time or other
be performed, and in that case he might obtain some intelligence of Aurelia. Mr. Thomas Clarke
was permitted to take up his habitation in the same house, on his earnestly desiring he might
be intrusted with the office of conveying information and instruction between Dolly and our
adventurer. The knight himself resolved to live retired, until he should receive some tidings
relating to Miss Darnel that should influence his conduct; but he proposed to frequent places
of public resort incognito, that he might have some chance of meeting by accident with the
mistress of his heart.

Taking it for granted, that the oddities of Crowe would help to amuse him in his hours of solitude
and disappointment, he invited that original to be his guest at a small house, which he determined
to hire ready furnished, in the neighbourhood of Golden Square.  The captain thanked him for
his courtesy, and frankly embraced his offer, though he did not much approve of the knight's
choice in point of situation.  He said he would recommend him to a special good upper deck
hard by St. Catherine's in Wapping, where he would be delighted with the prospect of the street
forwards, well frequented by passengers, carts, drays, and other carriages; and having backwards
an agreeable view of Alderman Parson's great brewhouse, with two hundred hogs feeding almost
under the window. As a further inducement, he mentioned the vicinity of the Tower guns, which
would regale his hearing on days of salutation; nor did he forget the sweet sound of mooring
and unmooring ships in the river, and the pleasing objects on the other side of the Thames,
displayed in the oozy docks and cabbage-gardens of Rotherhithe.  Sir Launcelot was not insensible
to the beauties of this landscape, but, his pursuit lying another way, he contented himself
with a less enchanting situation, and Crowe accompanied him out of pure friendship.

At night, Mr. Clarke arrived at our hero's house with tidings that were by no means agreeable.
He told him, that Clump had left a letter for Dolly, informing her, that his master, Squire
Darnel, was to set out early in the morning for Yorkshire; but he could give no account of
her lady, who had the day before been conveyed, he knew not whither, in a hackney-coach, attended
by her uncle and an ill-looking fellow, who had much the appearance of a bailiff or turnkey,
so that he feared she was in trouble.

Sir Launcelot was deeply affected by this intimation.  His apprehension was even roused by
a suspicion that a man of Darnel's violent temper and unprincipled heart might have practised
upon the life of his lovely niece; but, upon recollection, he could not suppose that he had
recourse to such infamous expedients, knowing as he did, that an account of her would be demanded
at his hands, and that it would be easily proved he had conveyed her from the lodging in which
she resided.

His first fears now gave way to another suggestion, that Anthony, in order to intimidate her
into a compliance with his proposals, had trumped up a spurious claim against her, and, by
virtue of a writ, confined her in some prison or spunging-house.  Possessed with this idea,
he desired Mr. Clarke to search the sheriff's office in the morning, that he might know whether
any such writ had been granted; and he himself resolved to make a tour of the great prisons
belonging to the metropolis, to inquire, if perchance she might not be confined under a borrowed
name.  Finally, he determined, if possible, to apprise her of his place of abode, by a paragraph
in all the daily papers, signifying that Sir Launcelot Greaves had arrived at his house near
Golden Square.

All these resolutions were punctually executed.  No such writ had been taken out in the sheriff's
office; and therefore our hero set out on his jail expedition, accompanied by Mr. Clarke, who
had contracted some acquaintance with the commanding officers in these garrisons, in the course
of his clerkship and practice as an attorney.  The first day they spent in prosecuting their
inquiry through the Gate House, Fleet, and Marshalsea; the next day they allotted to the King's
Bench, where they understood there was a great variety of prisoners.  There they proposed to
make a minute scrutiny, by the help of Mr. Norton, the deputy-marshal, who was Mr. Clarke's
intimate friend, and had nothing at all of the jailor, either in his appearance or in his disposition,
which was remarkably humane and benevolent towards all his fellow-creatures.

The knight having bespoke dinner at a tavern in the Borough, was, together with Captain Crowe,
conducted to the prison of the King's Bench, which is situated in St. George's Fields, about
a mile from the end of Westminster Bridge, and appears like a neat little regular town, consisting
of one street, surrounded by a very high wall, including an open piece of ground, which may
be termed a garden, where the prisoners take the air, and amuse themselves with a variety of
diversions.  Except the entrance, where the turnkeys keep watch and ward, there is nothing
in the place that looks like a jail, or bears the least colour of restraint. The street is
crowded with passengers.  Tradesmen of all kinds here exercise their different professions.
Hawkers of all sorts are admitted to call and vend their wares as in any open street of London.
Here are butchers' stands, chandlers' shops, a surgery, a tap-house, well frequented, and a
public kitchen, in which provisions are dressed for all the prisoners gratis, at the expense
of the publican.  Here the voice of misery never complains; and, indeed, little else is to
be heard but the sounds of mirth and jollity.

At the farther end of the street, on the right hand, is a little paved court, leading to a
separate building, consisting of twelve large apartments, called state rooms, well furnished
and fitted up for the reception of the better sort of Crown prisoners; and, on the other side
of the street, facing a separate division of ground, called the common side, is a range of
rooms occupied by prisoners of the lowest order, who share the profits of a begging-box, and
are maintained by this practice, and some established funds of charity.  We ought also to observe,
that the jail is provided with a neat chapel, in which a clergyman, in consideration of a certain
salary, performs divine service every Sunday.

Our adventurer, having searched the books, and perused the description of all the female prisoners
who had been for some weeks admitted into the jail, obtained not the least intelligence of
his concealed charmer, but resolved to alleviate his disappointment by the gratification of
his curiosity.

Under the auspices of Mr. Norton, he made a tour of the prison, and, in particular, visited
the kitchen, where he saw a number of spits loaded with a variety of provision, consisting
of butchers' meat, poultry, and game.  He could not help expressing his astonishment, with
uplifted hands, and congratulating himself in secret upon his being a member of that community
which had provided such a comfortable asylum for the unfortunate.  His ejaculation was interrupted
by a tumultuous noise in the street; and Mr. Norton declaring he was sent for to the lodge,
consigned our hero to the care of one Mr. Felton, a prisoner of a very decent appearance, who
paid his compliments with a good grace, and invited the company to repose themselves in his
apartment, which was large, commodious, and well furnished.  When Sir Launcelot asked the cause
of that uproar, he told him that it was the prelude to a boxing match between two of the prisoners,
to be decided in the ground or garden of the place.

Captain Crowe, expressing an eager curiosity to see the battle, Mr. Felton assured him there
would be no sport, as the combatants were both reckoned dunghills; "but, in half an hour,"
said he, "there will be a battle of some consequence between two of the demagogues of the place,
Dr. Crabclaw and Mr. Tapley, the first a physician and the other a brewer.  You must know,
gentlemen, that this microcosm, or republic inn miniature, is like the great world, split into
factions.  Crabclaw is the leader of one party, and the other is headed by Tapley; both are
men of warm and impetuous tempers, and their intrigues have embroiled the whole place, insomuch
that it was dangerous to walk the street on account of the continual skirmishes of their partisans.
At length, some of the more sedate inhabitants having met and deliberated upon some remedy
for these growing disorders, proposed that the dispute should be at once decided by single
combat between the two chiefs, who readily agreed to the proposal. The match was accordingly
made for five guineas, and this very day and hour appointed for the trial, on which considerable
sums of money are depending.  As for Mr. Norton, it is not proper that he should be present,
or seem to countenance such violent proceedings, which, however, it is necessary to connive
at, as convenient vents for the evaporation of those humours, which, being confined, might
accumulate and break out with greater fury in conspiracy and rebellion."

The knight owned he could not conceive by what means such a number of licentious people, amounting,
with their dependants, to above five hundred, were restrained within the bounds of any tolerable
discipline, or prevented from making their escape, which they might at any time accomplish,
either by stealth or open violence; as it could not be supposed that one or two turnkeys, continually
employed in opening and shutting the door, could resist the efforts of a whole multitude.

"Your wonder, good sir," said Mr. Felton, "will vanish, when you consider it is hardly possible
that the multitude should co-operate in the execution of such a scheme; and that the keeper
perfectly well understands the maxim divide et impera.  Many prisoners are restrained by the
dictates of gratitude towards the deputy-marshal, whose friendship and good offices they have
experienced; some no doubt are actuated by motives of discretion.  One party is an effectual
check upon the other; and I am firmly persuaded that there are not ten prisoners within the
place that would make their escape, if the doors were laid open.  This is a step which no man
would take, unless his fortune was altogether desperate; because it would oblige him to leave
his country for life, and expose him to the most imminent risk of being retaken and treated
with the utmost severity.  The majority of the prisoners live in the most lively hope of being
released by the assistance of their friends, the compassion of their creditors, or the favour
of the legislature.  Some who are cut off from all these proposals are become naturalised to
the place, knowing they cannot subsist in any other situation.  I myself am one of these. 
After having resigned all my effects for the benefit of my creditors, I have been detained
these nine years in prison, because one person refuses to sign my certificate.  I have long
outlived all my friends from whom I could expect the least countenance or favour.  I am grown
old in confinement, and lay my account with ending my days in jail, as the mercy of the legislature
in favour of insolvent debtors is never extended to uncertified bankrupts taken in execution.
By dint of industry and the most rigid economy, I make shift to live independent in this retreat.
To this scene my faculty of subsisting, as well as my body, is peculiarly confined.  Had I
an opportunity to escape, where should I go?  All my views of fortune have been long blasted.
I have no friends nor connexions in the world.  I must, therefore, starve in some sequestered
corner, or be recaptivated and confined for ever to close prison, deprived of the indulgences
which I now enjoy."

Here the conversation was broke off by another uproar, which was the signal to battle between
the doctor and his antagonist.  The company immediately adjourned to the field, where the combatants
were already undressed, and the stakes deposited.  The doctor seemed of the middle age and
middle stature, active and alert, with an atrabilarious aspect, and a mixture of rage and disdain
expressed in his countenance.  The brewer was large, raw-boned, and round as a butt of beer,
but very fat, unwieldy, short-winded, and phlegmatic.  Our adventurer was not a little surprised
when he beheld, in the character of seconds, a male and female stripped naked from the waist
upwards, the latter ranging on the side of the physician; but the commencement of the battle
prevented his demanding of his guide an explanation of this phenomenon.  The doctor retiring
some paces backwards, threw himself into the attitude of a battering-ram, and rushed upon his
antagonist with great impetuosity, foreseeing, that, should he have the good fortune to overturn
him in the first assault, it would not be an easy task to raise him up again, and put him in
a capacity of offence.  But the momentum of Crabclaw's head, and the concomitant efforts of
his knuckles, had no effect upon the ribs of Tapley, who stood firm as the Acroceraunian promontory;
and stepping forward with his projected fist, something smaller and softer than a sledge-hammer,
struck the physician to the ground.

In a trice, however, by the assistance of his female second, he was on his legs again, and
grappling with his antagonist, endeavoured to tip him a fall, but instead of accomplishing
his purpose, he received a cross-buttock, and the brewer throwing himself upon him as he fell,
had well-nigh smothered him on the spot.  The amazon flew to his assistance, and Tapley showing
no inclination to get up, she smote him on the temple till he roared.  The male second hastening
to the relief of his principal, made application to the eyes of the female, which were immediately
surrounded with black circles; and she returned the salute with a blow, which brought a double
stream of blood from his nostrils, greeting him at the same time with the opprobrious appellation
of a lousy son of a b---h.  A combat more furious than the first would now have ensued, had
not Felton interposed with an air of authority, and insisted on the man's leaving the field,
an injunction which he forthwith obeyed, saying, "Well, damme, Felton, you're my friend and
commander; I'll obey your order--but the b---h will be foul of me before we sleep."--Then Felton
advancing to his opponent, "Madam," said he, "I'm very sorry to see a lady of your rank and
qualifications expose yourself in this manner --for God's sake, behave with a little more decorum,
if not for the sake of your own family, at least for the credit of your sex in general."--
"Hark ye, Felton," said she, "decorum is founded upon a delicacy of sentiment and deportment,
which cannot consist with the disgraces of a jail, and the miseries of indigence.--But I see
the dispute is now terminated, and the money is to be drank; if you'll dine with us you shall
be welcome; if not, you may die in your sobriety, and be d--ned."

By this time the doctor had given out, and allowed the brewer to be the better man; yet he
would not honour the festival with his presence, but retired to his chamber, exceedingly mortified
at his defeat. Our hero was reconducted to Mr. Felton's apartment, where he sat some time without
opening his mouth, so astonished he was at what he had seen and heard. "I perceive, sir," said
the prisoner, "you are surprised at the manner in which I accosted that unhappy woman; and
perhaps you will be more surprised when you hear that within these eighteen months she was
actually a person of fashion, and her opponent, who by the bye is her husband, universally
respected as a man of honour and a brave officer."-- "I am, indeed," cried our hero, "overwhelmed
with amazement and concern, as well as stimulated by an eager curiosity to know the fatal causes
which have produced such a reverse of character and fortune.  But I will rein my curiosity
till the afternoon, if you will favour me with your company at a tavern in the neighbourhood,
where I have bespoke dinner, a favour which I hope Mr. Norton will have no objection to your
granting, as he himself is to be of the party."--The prisoner thanked him for his kind invitation,
and they adjourned immediately to the place, taking up the deputy-marshal in their passage
through the lodge or entrance of the prison.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE

CONTAINING FURTHER ANECDOTES RELATING TO THE CHILDREN ON WRETCHEDNESS.

Dinner being cheerfully discussed, and our adventurer expressing an eager desire to know the
history of the male and female who had acted as squires or seconds to the champions of the
King's Bench, Felton gratified his curiosity to this effect:

"All that I know of Captain Clewline, previous to his commitment, is, that he was a commander
of a sloop of war, and bore the reputation of a gallant officer; that he married the daughter
of a rich merchant in the city of London, against the inclination and without the knowledge
of her father, who renounced her for this act of disobedience; that the captain consoled himself
for the rigour of the parent, with the possession of the lady, who was not only remarkably
beautiful in person, but highly accomplished in her mind, and amiable in her disposition. 
Such, a few months ago, were those two persons whom you saw acting in such a vulgar capacity.
When they first entered the prison, they were undoubtedly the handsomest couple mine eyes ever
beheld, and their appearance won universal respect even from the most brutal inhabitants of
the jail.

"The captain, having unwarily involved himself as a security for a man to whom he had lain
under obligations, became liable for a considerable sum, and his own father-in-law being the
sole creditor of the bankrupt, took this opportunity of wreaking vengeance upon him for having
espoused his daughter.  He watched an opportunity until the captain had actually stepped into
the post-chaise with his lady for Portsmouth, where his ship lay, and caused him to be arrested
in the most public and shameful manner.  Mrs. Clewline had like to have sunk under the first
transports of her grief and mortification; but these subsiding, she had recourse to personal
solicitation.  She went with her only child in her arms, a lovely boy, to her father's door,
and, being denied admittance, kneeled down in the street, imploring his compassion in the most
pathetic strain; but this hard-hearted citizen, instead of recognising his child, and taking
the poor mourner to his bosom, insulted her from the window with the most bitter reproach,
saying, among other shocking expressions, 'Strumpet, take yourself away with your brat, otherwise
I shall send for the beadle, and have you to Bridewell.'

"The unfortunate lady was cut to the heart by this usage, and fainted in the street, from whence
she was conveyed to a public-house by the charity of some passengers.  She afterwards attempted
to soften the barbarity of her father by repeated letters, and by interesting some of his friends
to intercede with him in her behalf; but all her endeavours proving ineffectual, she accompanied
her husband to the prison of the King's Bench, where she must have felt, in the severest manner,
the fatal reverse of circumstance to which she was exposed.

"The captain being disabled from going to sea, was superseded, and he saw all his hopes blasted
in the midst of an active war, at a time when he had the fairest prospects of fame and fortune.
He saw himself reduced to extreme poverty, cooped up with the tender partner of his heart in
a wretched hovel, amidst the refuse of mankind, and on the brink of wanting the common necessaries
of life.  The mind of man is ever ingenious in finding resources.  He comforted his lady with
vain hopes of having friends who would effect his deliverance, and repeated assurances of this
kind so long, that he at length began to think they were not altogether void of foundation.

"Mrs. Clewline, from a principle of duty, recollected all her fortitude, that she might not
only bear her fate with patience, but even contribute to alleviate the woes of her husband,
whom her affection had ruined.  She affected to believe the suggestions of his pretended hope;
she interchanged with him assurances of better fortune; her appearance exhibited a calm, while
her heart was torn with anguish.  She assisted him in writing letters to former friends, the
last consolation of the wretched prisoner; she delivered these letters with her own hand, and
underwent a thousand mortifying repulses, the most shocking circumstances of which she concealed
from her husband.  She performed all the menial offices in her own little family, which was
maintained by pawning her apparel; and both the husband and wife, in some measure, sweetened
their cares by prattling and toying with their charming little boy, on whom they doated with
an enthusiasm of fondness.  Yet even this pleasure was mingled with the most tender and melancholy
regret.  I have seen the mother hang over him, with the most affecting expression of this kind
in her aspect, the tears contending with the smiles upon her countenance, while she exclaimed,
'Alas! my poor prisoner, little did your mother once think she should be obliged to nurse you
in a jail.'  The captain's paternal love was dashed with impatience; he would snatch up the
boy in a transport of grief, press him to his breast, devour him as it were with kisses, throw
up his eyes to heaven in the most emphatic silence, then convey the child hastily to his mother's
arms, pull his hat over his eyes, stalk out into the common walk, and, finding himself alone,
break out into tears and lamentation.

"Ah! little did this unhappy couple know what further griefs awaited them!  The smallpox broke
out in the prison, and poor Tommy Clewline was infected.  As the eruption appeared unfavourable,
you may conceive the consternation with which they were overwhelmed.  Their distress was rendered
inconceivable by indigence; for by this time they were so destitute, that they could neither
pay for common attendance, nor procure proper advice.  I did on that occasion what I thought
my duty towards my fellow-creatures.  I wrote to a physician of my acquaintance, who was humane
enough to visit the poor little patient; I engaged a careful woman-prisoner as a nurse, and
Mr. Norton supplied them with money and necessaries.  These helps were barely sufficient to
preserve them from the horrors of despair, when they saw their little darling panting under
the rage of a loathsome pestilential malady, during the excessive heat of the dog-days, and
struggling for breath in the noxious atmosphere of a confined cabin, where they scarce had
room to turn on the most necessary occasions.  The eager curiosity with which the mother eyed
the doctor's looks as often as he visited the boy; the terror and trepidation of the father,
while he desired to know his opinion; in a word, the whole tenor of their distress baffled
all description.

"At length the physician, for the sake of his own character, was obliged to be explicit; and,
returning with the captain to the common walk, told him, in my hearing, that the child could
not possibly recover.  This sentence seemed to have petrified the unfortunate parent, who stood
motionless, and seemingly bereft of sense.  I led him to my apartment, where he sat a full
hour in that state of stupefaction; then he began to groan hideously, a shower of tears burst
from his eyes, he threw himself on the floor, and uttered the most piteous lamentation that
ever was heard.  Meanwhile, Mrs. Norton being made acquainted with the doctor's prognostic,
visited Mrs. Clewline, and invited her to the lodge.  Her prophetic fears immediately took
the alarm.  'What!' cried she, starting up with a frantic wildness in her looks, 'then our
case is desperate--I shall lose my dear Tommy!--the poor prisoner will be released by the hand
of Heaven!--Death will convey him to the cold grave!'  The dying innocent hearing this exclamation,
pronounced these words, 'Tommy won't leave you, my dear mamma; if death comes to take Tommy,
papa shall drive him away with his sword.'  This address deprived the wretched mother of all
resignation to the will of Providence.  She tore her hair, dashed herself on the pavement,
shrieked aloud, and was carried off in a deplorable state of distraction.

"That same evening the lovely babe expired, and the father grew frantic. He made an attempt
on his own life; and, being with difficulty restrained, his agitation sunk into a kind of sullen
insensibility, which seemed to absorb all sentiment, and gradually vulgarised his faculty of
thinking.  In order to dissipate the violence of his sorrow, he continually shifted the scene
from one company to another, contracted abundance of low connexions, and drowned his cares
in repeated intoxication.  The unhappy lady underwent a long series of hysterical fits and
other complaints, which seemed to have a fatal effect on her brain as well as constitution.
Cordials were administered to keep up her spirits; and she found it necessary to protract the
use of them to blunt the edge of grief, by overwhelming reflection, and remove the sense of
uneasiness arising from a disorder in her stomach.  In a word, she became an habitual dram-drinker;
and this practice exposed her to such communication as debauched her reason, and perverted
her sense of decorum and propriety.  She and her husband gave a loose to vulgar excess, in
which they were enabled to indulge by the charity and interest of some friends, who obtained
half-pay for the captain.

"They are now metamorphosed into the shocking creatures you have seen; he into a riotous plebeian,
and she into a ragged trull.  They are both drunk every day, quarrel and fight one with another,
and often insult their fellow-prisoners.  Yet they are not wholly abandoned by virtue and humanity.
The captain is scrupulously honest in all his dealings, and pays off his debts punctually every
quarter, as soon as he receives his half-pay.  Every prisoner in distress is welcome to share
his money while it lasts; and his wife never fails, while it is in her power, to relieve the
wretched; so that their generosity, even in this miserable disguise, is universally respected
by their neighbours.  Sometimes the recollection of their former rank comes over them like
a qualm, which they dispel with brandy, and then humorously rally one another on their mutual
degeneracy. She often stops me in the walk, and, pointing to the captain, says, 'My husband,
though he is become a blackguard jail-bird, must be allowed to be a handsome fellow still.'--On
the other hand, he will frequently desire me to take notice of his rib, as she chances to pass.--'Mind
that draggle-tailed drunken drab,' he will say; 'what an antidote it is--yet, for all that,
Felton, she was a fine woman when I married her--Poor Bess, I have been the ruin of her, that
is certain, and deserve to be d--ned for bringing her to this pass.'

"Thus they accommodate themselves to each other's infirmities, and pass their time not without
some taste of plebeian enjoyment--but, name their child, they never fail to burst into tears,
and still feel a return of the most poignant sorrow."

Sir Launcelot Greaves did not hear this story unmoved.  Tom Clarke's cheeks were bedewed with
the drops of sympathy, while, with much sobbing, he declared his opinion, that an action should
lie against the lady's father.

Captain Crowe having listened to the story with uncommon attention, expressed his concern that
an honest seaman should be so taken in stays; but he imputed all his calamities to the wife.
"For why?" said he; "a seafaring man may have a sweetheart in every port; but he should steer
clear of a wife, as he would avoid a quicksand.--You see, brother, how this here Clewline lags
astern in the wake of a snivelling b---h; otherwise he would never make a weft in his ensign
for the loss of a child--odds heart! he could have done no more if he had sprung a top-mast,
or started a timber."

The knight declaring that he would take another view of the prison in the afternoon, Mr. Felton
insisted upon his doing him the honour to drink a dish of tea in his apartment, and Sir Launcelot
accepted his invitation. Thither they, accordingly repaired, after having made another circuit
of the jail, and the tea-things were produced by Mrs. Felton, when she was summoned to the
door, and in a few minutes returning, communicated something in a whisper to her husband. 
He changed colour, and repaired to the staircase, where he was heard to talk aloud in an angry
tone.

When he came back, he told the company he had been teased by a very importunate beggar.  Addressing
himself to our adventurer, "You took notice," says he, "of a fine lady flaunting about our
walk in all the frippery of the fashion.  She was lately a gay young widow that made a great
figure at the court-end of the town; she distinguished herself by her splendid equipage, her
rich liveries, her brilliant assemblies, her numerous routs, and her elegant taste in dress
and furniture.  She is nearly related to some of the best families in England, and, it must
be owned, mistress of many fine accomplishments.  But being deficient in true delicacy, she
endeavoured to hide that defect by affectation.  She pretended to a thousand antipathies which
did not belong to her nature. A breast of veal threw her into mortal agonies; if she saw a
spider, she screamed; and at sight of a mouse she fainted away.  She could not, without horror,
behold an entire joint of meat; and nothing but fricassees and other made dishes were seen
upon her table.  She caused all her floors to be lined with green baize, that she might trip
along there with more ease and pleasure.  Her footmen wore clogs, which were deposited in the
hall, and both they and her chairmen were laid under the strongest injunctions to avoid porter
and tobacco.  Her jointure amounted to eight hundred pounds per annum, and she made shift to
spend four times that sum.  At length it was mortgaged for nearly the entire value; but, far
from retrenching, she seemed to increase in extravagance, until her effects were taken in execution,
and her person here deposited in safe custody.

"When one considers the abrupt transition she underwent from her spacious apartments to an
hovel scarce eight feet square; from sumptuous furniture to bare benches; from magnificence
to meanness; from affluence to extreme poverty; one would imagine she must have been totally
overwhelmed by such a sudden gush of misery.  But this was not the case.  She has, in fact,
no delicate feelings.  She forthwith accommodated herself to the exigency of her fortune; yet
she still affects to keep state amidst the miseries of a jail; and this affectation is truly
ridiculous.  She lies a-bed till two o'clock in the afternoon.  She maintains a female attendant
for the sole purpose of dressing her person.  Her cabin is the least cleanly in the whole prison;
she has learned to eat bread and cheese and drink porter; but she always appears once a day
dressed in the pink of the fashion.  She has found means to run in debt at the chandler's shop,
the baker's, and the tap-house, though there is nothing got in this place but with ready money.
She has even borrowed small sums from divers prisoners, who were themselves on the brink of
starving.  She takes pleasure in being surrounded with duns, observing, that by such people
a person of fashion is to be distinguished.  She writes circular letters to her former friends
and acquaintance, and by this method has raised pretty considerable contributions; for she
writes in a most elegant and irresistible style.  About a fortnight ago she received a supply
of twenty guineas; when, instead of paying her little jail-debts, or withdrawing any part of
her apparel from pawn, she laid out the whole sum in a fashionable suit and laces; and next
day borrowed of me a shilling to purchase a neck of mutton for her dinner.  She seems to think
her rank in life entitles her to this kind of assistance.  She talks very pompously of her
family and connexions, by whom however she has been long renounced.  She has no sympathy nor
compassion for the distresses of her fellow-creatures; but she is perfectly well bred; she
bears a repulse the best of any woman I ever knew; and her temper has never been once ruffled
since her arrival at the King's Bench.  She now entreated me to lend her half-a-guinea, for
which she said she had the most pressing occasion, and promised upon her honour it should be
repaid to-morrow; but I lent a deaf ear to her request, and told her in plain terms that her
honour was already bankrupt."

Sir Launcelot, thrusting his hand mechanically into his pocket, pulled out a couple of guineas,
and desired Felton to accommodate her with that trifle in his own name; but he declined the
proposal, and refused to touch the money.  "God forbid," said he, "that I should attempt to
thwart your charitable intention; but this, my good sir, is no object--she has many resources.
Neither should we number the clamorous beggar among those who really feel distress; he is generally
gorged with bounty misapplied.  The liberal hand of charity should be extended to modest want
that pines in silence, encountering cold, nakedness, and hunger, and every species of distress.
Here you may find the wretch of keen sensations blasted by accident in the blossom of his fortune,
shivering in the solitary recess of indigence, disdaining to beg, and even ashamed to let his
misery be known.  Here you may see the parent who has known happier times, surrounded by his
tender offspring, naked and forlorn, demanding food, which his circumstances cannot afford.

"That man of decent appearance and melancholy aspect, who lifted his hat as you passed him
in the yard, is a person of unblemished character.  He was a reputable tradesman in the city,
and failed through inevitable losses.  A commission of bankruptcy was taken out against him
by his sole creditor, a quaker, who refused to sign his certificate.  He has lived three years
in prison, with a wife and five small children.  In a little time after his commitment, he
had friends who offered to pay ten shillings in the pound of what he owed, and to give security
for paying the remainder in three years by instalments.  The honest quaker did not charge the
bankrupt with any dishonest practices, but he rejected the proposal with the most mortifying
indifference, declaring that he did not want his money.  The mother repaired to his house,
and kneeling before him with her five lovely children, implored mercy with tears and exclamations.
He stood this scene unmoved, and even seemed to enjoy the prospect, wearing the looks of complacency,
while his heart was steeled with rancour.  'Woman,' said he, 'these be hopeful babes, if they
were duly nurtured.  Go thy ways in peace; I have taken my resolution.'  Her friends maintained
the family for some time; but it is not in human charity to persevere; some of them died, some
of them grew unfortunate, some of them fell off, and now the poor man is reduced to the extremity
of indigence, from whence he has no prospect of being retrieved.  The fourth part of what you
would have bestowed upon the lady would make this poor man and his family sing with joy."

He had scarce pronounced these words, when our hero desired the man might be called, and in
a few minutes he entered the apartment with a low obeisance.  "Mr. Coleby," said the knight,
"I have heard how cruelly you have been used by your creditor, and beg you will accept this
trifling present, if it can be of any service to you in your distress."  So saying, he put
five guineas into his hand.  The poor man was so confounded at such an unlooked-for acquisition,
that he stood motionless and silent, unable to thank the donor; and Mr. Felton conveyed him
to the door, observing that his heart was too full for utterance.  But in a little time his
wife bursting into the room with her five children, looked around, and going up to Sir Launcelot
without any direction, exclaimed, "This is the angel sent by Providence to succour me and my
poor innocents."  Then falling at his feet, she pressed his hand and bathed it with her tears.
He raised her up with that complacency which was natural to his disposition.  He kissed all
her children, who were remarkably handsome and neatly kept, though in homely apparel; and,
giving her his direction, assured her she might always apply to him in her distress.

After her departure, he produced a bank-note of twenty pounds, and would have deposited it
in the hands of Mr. Felton, to be distributed in charities among the objects of the place;
but he desired it might be left with Mr. Norton, who was the proper person for managing his
benevolence, and he promised to assist the deputy with his advice in laying it out.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO

IN WHICH CAPTAIN CROWE IS SUBLIMED INTO THE REGIONS ON ASTROLOGY.

Three whole days had our adventurer prosecuted his inquiry about the amiable Aurelia, whom
he sought in every place of public and of private entertainment or resort, without obtaining
the least satisfactory intelligence, when he received one evening, from the hands of a porter,
who instantly vanished, the following billet:

"If you would learn the particulars of Miss Darnel's fate fail not to be in the fields by the
Foundling Hospital, precisely at seven o'clock this evening, when you shall be met by a person
who will give you the satisfaction you desire, together with his reason for addressing you
in this mysterious manner."

Had this intimation concerned any other subject, perhaps the knight would have deliberated
with himself in what manner he should take a hint so darkly communicated.  But his eagerness
to retrieve the jewel he had lost divested him of all his caution; the time of assignation
was already at hand, and neither the captain nor his nephew could be found to accompany him,
had he been disposed to make use of their attendance.  He therefore, after a moment's hesitation,
repaired to the place appointed, in the utmost agitation and anxiety, lest the hour should
be elapsed before his arrival.

Crowe was one of those defective spirits who cannot subsist for any length of time on their
own bottoms.  He wanted a familiar prop, upon which he could disburden his cares, his doubts,
and his humours; an humble friend who would endure his caprices, and with whom he could communicate,
free of all reserve and restraint.  Though he loved his nephew's person, and admired his parts,
he considered him often as a little petulant jackanapes, who presumed upon his superior understanding;
and as for Sir Launcelot, there was something in his character that overawed the seaman, and
kept him at a disagreeable distance.  He had, in this dilemma, cast his eyes upon Timothy Crabshaw,
and admitted him to a considerable share of familiarity and fellowship.  These companions had
been employed in smoking a social pipe at an alehouse in the neighbourhood, when the knight
made his excursion; and returning to the house about supper-time, found Mr. Clarke in waiting.

The young lawyer was alarmed when he heard the hour of ten, without seeing our adventurer,
who had been used to be extremely regular in his economy; and the captain and he supped in
profound silence.  Finding, upon inquiry among the servants, that the knight went out abruptly,
in consequence of having received a billet, Tom began to be visited with the apprehension of
a duel, and sat the best part of the night by his uncle, sweating with the expectation of seeing
our hero brought home a breathless corpse.  But no tidings of him arriving, he, about two in
the morning, repaired to his own lodging, resolved to publish a description of Sir Launcelot
in the newspapers, if he should not appear next day.

Crowe did not pass the time without uneasiness.  He was extremely concerned at the thought
of some mischief having befallen his friend and patron; and he was terrified with the apprehensions,
that, in case Sir Launcelot was murdered, his spirit might come and give him notice of his
fate.  Now he had an insuperable aversion to all correspondence with the dead; and taking it
for granted that the spirit of his departed friend could not appear to him except when he should
be alone, and a-bed in the dark, he determined to pass the remainder of the night without going
to bed.  For this purpose, his first care was to visit the garret, in which Timothy Crabshaw
lay fast asleep, snoring with his mouth wide open.  Him the captain with difficulty roused,
by dint of promising to regale him with a bowl of rum punch in the kitchen, where the fire,
which had been extinguished, was soon rekindled.  The ingredients were fetched from a public-house
in the neighbourhood; for the captain was too proud to use his interest in the knight's family,
especially at these hours, when all the rest of the servants had retired to their repose; and
he and Timothy drank together until daybreak, the conversation turning upon hobgoblins, and
God's revenge against murder.

The cookmaid lay in a little apartment contiguous to the kitchen; and whether disturbed by
these horrible tales of apparitions, or titillated by the savoury steams that issued from the
punch-bowl, she made a virtue of necessity, or appetite, and dressing herself in the dark,
suddenly appeared before them to the no small perturbation of both.  Timothy, in particular,
was so startled, that, in his endeavours to make a hasty retreat towards the chimney-corner,
he overturned the table; the liquor was spilt, but the bowl was saved by falling on a heap
of ashes.  Mrs. Cook having reprimanded him for his foolish fear, declared, she had got up
betimes, in order to scour her saucepans; and the captain proposed to have the bowl replenished,
if materials could be procured.  This difficulty was overcome by Crabshaw; and they sat down
with their new associate to discuss the second edition.

The knight's sudden disappearing being brought upon the carpet, their female companion gave
it as her opinion, that nothing would be so likely to bring this affair to light, as going
to a cunning man, whom she had lately consulted about a silver spoon that was mislaid, and
who told her all the things that she ever did, and ever would happen to her through the whole
course of her life.

Her two companions pricked up their ears at this intelligence; and Crowe asked if the spoon
had been found.  She answered in the affirmative; and said the cunning man described to a hair
the person that should be her true lover, and her wedded husband; that he was a seafaring man;
that he was pretty well stricken in years--a little passionate or so; and that he went with
his fingers clinched like, as it were.  The captain began to sweat at this description, and
mechanically thrust his hands into his pockets; while Crabshaw pointing to him, told her he
believed she had got the right sow by the ear.  Crowe grumbled, that mayhap for all that he
should not be brought up by such a grappling neither.  Then he asked if this cunning man dealt
with the devil, declaring, in that case, he would keep clear of him; for why? because he must
have sold himself to Old Scratch; and, being a servant of the devil, how could he be a good
subject to his majesty?  Mrs. Cook assured him, the conjurer was a good Christian; and that
he gained all his knowledge by conversing with the stars and planets.  Thus satisfied, the
two friends resolved to consult him as soon as it should be light; and being directed to the
place of his habitation, set out for it by seven in the morning.

They found the house forsaken, and had already reached the end of the lane in their return,
when they were accosted by an old woman, who gave them to understand, that if they had occasion
for the advice of a fortune-teller, as she did suppose they had, from their stopping at the
house where Dr. Grubble lived, she would conduct them to a person of much more eminence in
that profession; at the same time she informed them, that the said Grubble had been lately
sent to Bridewell; a circumstance which, with all his art, he had not been able to foresee.
The captain, without any scruple, put himself and his companion under convoy of this beldame,
who, through many windings and turnings, brought them to the door of a ruinous house, standing
in a blind alley; which door having opened with a key drawn from her pocket, she introduced
them into a parlour, where they saw no other furniture than a naked bench, and some frightful
figures on the bare walls, drawn or rather scrawled with charcoal.

Here she left them locked in, until she should give the doctor notice of their arrival; and
they amused themselves with decyphering these characters and hieroglyphics.  The first figure
that engaged their attention was that of a man hanging upon a gibbet, which both considered
as an unfavourable omen, and each endeavoured to avert from his own person.  Crabshaw observed,
that the figure so suspended was clothed in a sailor's jacket and trowsers; a truth which the
captain could not deny, but, on the other hand, he affirmed, that the said figure exhibited
the very nose and chin of Timothy, together with the hump on one shoulder.  A warm dispute
ensued, and being maintained with much acrimonious altercation, might have dissolved the new-cemented
friendship of those two originals, had it not been interrupted by the old sibyl, who, coming
into the parlour, intimated that the doctor waited for them above.  She likewise told them,
that he never admitted more than one at a time.  This hint occasioned a fresh contest.  The
captain insisted upon Crabshaw's making sail a-head, in order to look out afore; but Timothy
persisted in refusing this honour, declaring he did not pretend to lead, but he would follow,
as in duty bound.  The old gentlewoman abridged the ceremony by leading out Crabshaw with one
hand, and locking up Crowe with the other.

The former was dragged upstairs like a bear to the stake, not without reluctance and terror,
which did not at all abate at sight of the conjurer, with whom he was immediately shut up by
his conductress, after she had told him in a whisper, that he must deposit a shilling in a
little black coffin, supported by a human skull and thigh-bones crossed, on a stool covered
with black baize, that stood in one corner of the apartment.  The squire, having made this
offer with fear and trembling, ventured to survey the objects around him, which were very well
calculated to augment his confusion.  He saw divers skeletons hung by the head, the stuffed
skin of a young alligator, a calf with two heads, and several snakes suspended from the ceiling,
with the jaws of a shark, and a starved weasel.  On another funeral table he beheld two spheres,
between which lay a book open, exhibiting outlandish characters, and mathematical diagrams.
On one side stood an ink-standish with paper; and behind this desk appeared the conjurer himself,
in sable vestments, his head so overshadowed with hair, that, far from contemplating his features,
Timothy could distinguish nothing but a long white beard, which, for aught he knew, might have
belonged to a four-legged goat, as well as to a two-legged astrologer.

This apparition, which the squire did not eye without manifest discomposure, extending a white
wand, made certain evolutions over the head of Timothy, and having muttered an ejaculation,
commanded him, in a hollow tone, to come forward and declare his name.  Crabshaw, thus adjured,
advanced to the altar; and, whether from design, or (which is more probable) from confusion,
answered, "Samuel Crowe."  The conjurer taking up the pen, and making a few scratches on the
paper, exclaimed, in a terrific accent, "How! miscreant! attempt to impose upon the stars?--
You look more like a crab than a crow, and was born under the sign of Cancer."  The squire,
almost annihilated by this exclamation, fell upon his knees, crying, "I pray yaw, my lord conjurer's
worship, pardon my ignorance, and down't go to baind me over to the Red Sea like--I'se a poor
Yorkshire tyke, and would no more cheat the stars, than I'd cheat my own vather, as the saying
is--a must be a good hand at trapping, that catches the stars a napping--but as your honour's
worship observed, my name is Tim Crabshaw, of the East Raiding, groom and squair to Sir Launcelot
Greaves, baron knaight, and arrant-knaight, who ran mad for a wench, as your worship's conjuration
well knoweth.  The person below is Captain Crowe; and we coom by Margery Cook's recommendation,
to seek after my master, who is gone away, or made away, the Lord he knows how and where."

Here he was interrupted by the conjurer, who exhorted him to sit down and compose himself till
he should cast a figure; then he scrawled the paper, and waving his wand, repeated abundance
of gibberish concerning the number, the names, the houses, and revolutions of the planets,
with their conjunctions, oppositions, signs, circles; cycles, trines, and trigons. When he
perceived that this artifice had its proper effect in disturbing the brain of Crabshaw, he
proceeded to tell him from the stars, that his name was Crabshaw, or Crabscaw; that he was
born in the East Riding of Yorkshire, of poor, yet honest parents, and had some skill in horses;
and that he served a gentleman whose name began with the letter G--, which gentleman had run
mad for love, and left his family; but whether he would return alive or dead, the stars had
not yet determined.

Poor Timothy was thunderstruck to find the conjurer acquainted with all these circumstances,
and begged to know if he might be so bauld as to ax a question or two about his own fortune.
The astrologer pointing to the little coffin, our squire understood the hint, and deposited
another shilling.  The sage had recourse to his book, erected another scheme, performed once
more his airy evolutions with the wand, and having recited another mystical preamble, expounded
the book of fate in these words: "You shall neither die by war nor water, by hunger or by thirst,
nor be brought to the grave by old age or distemper; but, let me see--ay, the stars will have
it so--you shall be--exalted--hah!--ay, that is--hanged for horse-stealing."--"O good my lord
conjurer!" roared the squire, "I'd as lief give forty shillings as be hanged."--"Peace, sirrah!"
cried the other; "would you contradict or reverse the immutable decrees of fate? Hanging is
your destiny, and hanged you shall be--and comfort yourself with the reflection, that as you
are not the first, so neither will you be the last to swing on Tyburn tree."  This comfortable
assurance composed the mind of Timothy, and in a great measure reconciled him to the prediction.
He now proceeded in a whining tone, to ask whether he should suffer for the first fact; whether
it would be for a horse or a mare, and of what colour, that he might know when his hour was
come.  The conjurer gravely answered, that he would steal a dappled gelding on a Wednesday,
be cast at the Old Bailey on Thursday, and suffer on a Friday; and he strenuously recommended
it to him to appear in the cart with a nosegay in one hand, and the Whole Duty of Man in the
other.  "But if in case it should be in the winter," said the squire, "when a nosegay can't
be had?"--"Why, then," replied the conjurer, "an orange will do as well."

These material points being adjusted to the entire satisfaction of Timothy, he declared he
would bestow another shilling to know the fortune of an old companion, who truly did not deserve
so much at his hands, but he could not help loving him better than e'er a friend he had in
the world.  So saying, he dropped a third offering in the coffin, and desired to know the fate
of his horse Gilbert.  The astrologer having again consulted his art, pronounced that Gilbert
would die of the staggers, and his carcase be given to the hounds; a sentence which made a
much deeper impression upon Crabshaw's mind, than did the prediction of his own untimely and
disgraceful fate.  He shed a plenteous shower of tears, and his grief broke forth in some passionate
expressions of tenderness.  At length he told the astrologer he would go and send up the captain,
who wanted to consult him about Margery Cook, because as how she had informed him that Dr.
Grubble had described just such another man as the captain for her true love; and he had no
great stomach to the match, if so be as the stars were not bent upon their coming together.

Accordingly the squire being dismissed by the conjurer, descended to the parlour with a rueful
length of face, which being perceived by the captain, he demanded, "What cheer, ho?" with some
signs of apprehension. Crabshaw making no return to this salute, he asked if the conjurer had
taken an observation, and told him anything.  Then the other replied, he had told him more
than he desired to know.  "Why, an that be the case," said the seaman, "I have no occasion
to go aloft this trip, brother."

This evasion would not serve his turn.  Old Tisiphone was at hand, and led him up growling
into the hall of audience, which he did not examine without trepidation.  Having been directed
to the coffin, where he presented half a crown, in hope of rendering the fates more propitious,
the usual ceremony was performed, and the doctor addressed him in these words: "Approach, Raven."
The captain advancing, "You an't much mistaken, brother," said he, "heave your eye into the
binnacle, and box your compass, you'll find I'm a Crowe, not a Raven, thof indeed they be both
fowls of a feather, as the saying is."--"I know it," cried the conjurer, "thou art a northern
crow,--a sea-crow; not a crow of prey, but a crow to be preyed upon;--a crow to be plucked,--to
be flayed,--to be basted,--to be broiled by Margery upon the gridiron of matrimony."  The novice
changing colour at this denunciation, "I do understand your signals, brother," said he, "and
if it be set down in the log-book of fate that we must grapple, why then 'ware timbers.  But
as I know how the land lies, d'ye see, and the current of my inclination sets me off, I shall
haul up close to the wind, and mayhap we shall clear Cape Margery. But howsomever, we shall
leave that reef in the fore top-sail.--I was bound upon another voyage, d'ye see--to look and
to see, and to know if so be as how I could pick up any intelligence along shore concerning
my friend Sir Launcelot, who slipped his cable last night, and has lost company, d'ye see."

"What!" exclaimed the cunning man; "art thou a crow, and canst not smell carrion?  If thou
wouldst grieve for Greaves, behold his naked carcase lies unburied, to feed the kites, the
crows, the gulls, the rooks, and ravens."--"What! broach'd to?"  "Dead as a boil'd lobster."--"Odd's
heart, friend, these are the heaviest tidings I have heard these seven long years--there must
have been deadly odds when he lowered his top-sails--smite my eyes!  I had rather the Mufti
had foundered at sea, with myself and all my generation on board--well fare thy soul, flower
of the world! had honest Sam Crowe been within hail--but what signifies palavering?"  Here
the tears of unaffected sorrow flowed plentifully down the furrows of the seaman's cheeks;--then
his grief giving way to his indignation, "Hark ye, brother conjurer," said he, "you can spy
foul weather before it comes, d--n your eyes! why did not you give us warning of this here
squall?  B--st my limbs!  I'll make you give an account of this here d--ned, horrid, confounded
murder, d'ye see--mayhap you yourself was concerned, d'ye see.--For my own part, brother, I
put my trust in God, and steer by the compass, and I value not your paw-wawing and your conjuration
of a rope's end, d'ye see."

The conjurer was by no means pleased, either with the matter or the manner of this address.
He therefore began to soothe the captain's choler, by representing that he did not pretend
to omniscience, which was the attribute of God alone; that human art was fallible and imperfect;
and all that it could perform was to discover certain partial circumstances of any particular
object to which its inquiries were directed.  That being questioned by the other man concerning
the cause of his master's disappearing, he had exercised his skill upon the subject, and found
reason to believe that Sir Launcelot was assassinated; that he should think himself happy in
being the instrument of bringing the murderers to justice, though he foresaw they would of
themselves save him that trouble; for they would quarrel about dividing the spoil, and one
would give information against the other.

The prospect of this satisfaction appeased the resentment, and, in some measure, mitigated
the grief of Captain Crowe, who took his leave without much ceremony; and, being joined by
Crabshaw, proceeded with a heavy heart to the house of Sir Launcelot, where they found the
domestics at breakfast, without exhibiting the least symptom of concern for their absent master.
Crowe had been wise enough to conceal from Crabshaw what he had learned of the knight's fate.
This fatal intelligence he reserved for the ear of his nephew, Mr. Clarke, who did not fail
to attend him in the forenoon.

As for the squire, he did nothing but ruminate in rueful silence upon the dappled gelding,
the nosegay, and the predicted fate of Gilbert.  Him he forthwith visited in the stable, and
saluted with the kiss of peace. Then he bemoaned his fortune with tears, and by the sound of
his own lamentation was lulled asleep among the litter.

CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE

IN WHICH THE CLOUDS THAT COVER THE CATASTROPHE BEGIN TO DISPERSE.

We must now leave Captain Crowe and his nephew Mr. Clarke, arguing with great vehemence about
the fatal intelligence obtained from the conjurer, and penetrate at once the veil that concealed
our hero.  Know then, reader, that Sir Launcelot Greaves, repairing to the place described
in the billet which he had received, was accosted by a person muffled in a cloak, who began
to amuse him with a feigned story of Aurelia, to which, while he listened with great attention,
he found himself suddenly surrounded by armed men, who seized and pinioned down his arms, took
away his sword, and conveyed him by force into a hackney-coach provided for the purpose.  In
vain he expostulated on this violence with three persons who accompanied him in the vehicle.
He could not extort one word by way of reply; and, from their gloomy aspects, he began to be
apprehensive of assassination.  Had the carriage passed through any frequented place, he would
have endeavoured to alarm the inhabitants, but it was already clear of the town, and his conductors
took care to avoid all villages and inhabited houses.

After having travelled about two miles, the coach stopped at a large iron gate, which being
opened, our adventurer was led in silence through a spacious house into a tolerably decent
apartment, which he understood was intended for his bed-chamber.  In a few minutes after his
arrival, he was visited by a man of no very prepossessing appearance, who endeavouring to smooth
his countenance, which was naturally stern, welcomed our adventurer to his house; exhorted
him to be of good cheer, assuring him he should want for nothing, and desired to know what
he would choose for supper.

Sir Launcelot, in answer to this civil address, begged he would explain the nature of his confinement,
and the reasons for which his arms were tied like those of the worst malefactor.  The other
postponed till to-morrow the explanation he demanded, but in the meantime unbound his fetters,
and, as he declined eating, left him alone to his repose.  He took care, however, in retiring,
to double lock the door of the room, whose windows were grated on the outside with iron.

The knight, being thus abandoned to his own meditations, began to ruminate on the present adventure
with equal surprise and concern; but the more he revolved circumstances, the more was he perplexed
in his conjectures.  According to the state of the mind, a very subtle philosopher is often
puzzled by a very plain proposition; and this was the case of our adventurer.--What made the
strongest impression upon his mind was a notion that he was apprehended on suspicion of treasonable
practices, by a warrant from the Secretary of State, in consequence of some false malicious
information; and that his prison was no other than the house of a messenger, set apart for
the accommodation of suspected persons.  In this opinion he comforted himself by recollecting
his own conscious innocence, and reflecting that he should be entitled to the privilege of
habeas corpus, as the act including that inestimable jewel was happily not suspended at this time.

Consoled by this self-assurance, he quietly resigned himself to slumber; but before he fell
asleep, he was very disagreeably undeceived in his conjecture.  His ears were all at once saluted
with a noise from the next room, conveyed in distinct bounces against the wainscot; then a
hoarse voice exclaimed, "Bring up the artillery--let Brutandorf's brigade advance--detach my
black hussars to ravage the country--let them be new booted--take particular care of the spur-leathers--make
a desert of Lusatia--bombard the suburbs of Pera--go, tell my brother Henry to pass the Elbe
at Meissen with forty battalions and fifty squadrons--so ho, you Major-General Donder, why
don't you finish your second parallel?--send hither the engineer Shittenback--I'll lay all
the shoes in my shop, the breach will be practicable in four-and-twenty hours--don't tell me
of your works; you and your works be d--n'd."

"Assuredly," cried another voice from a different quarter, "he that thinks to be saved by works
is in a state of utter reprobation--I myself was a profane weaver, and trusted to the rottenness
of works--I kept my journeymen and 'prentices at constant work, and my heart was set upon the
riches of this world, which was a wicked work--but now I have got a glimpse of the new light--I
feel the operations of grace--I am of the new birth--I abhor good works--I detest all working
but the working of the Spirit--avaunt, Satan--O! how I thirst for communication with our sister
Jolly."

"The communication is already open with the Marche," said the first, "but as for thee, thou
caitiff, who hast presumed to disparage my works, I'll have thee rammed into a mortar with
a double charge of powder, and thrown into the enemy's quarters."

This dialogue operated like a train upon many other inhabitants of the place; one swore he
was within three vibrations of finding the longitude, when this noise confounded his calculation;
a second, in broken English, complained he vas distorped in the moment of de proshection; a
third, in the character of His Holiness, denounced interdiction, excommunication, and anathemas;
and swore by St. Peter's keys, they should howl ten thousand years in purgatory, without the
benefit of a single mass.  A fourth began to halloo in all the vociferation of a fox-hunter
in the chase; and in an instant the whole house was in an uproar.

The clamour, however, was of a short duration.  The different chambers being opened successively,
every individual was effectually silenced by the sound of one cabalistical word, which was
no other than Waistcoat.  A charm which at once cowed the King of P----, dispossessed the fanatic,
dumbfounded the mathematician, dismayed the alchemist, deposed the Pope, and deprived the squire
of all utterance.

Our adventurer was no longer in doubt concerning the place to which he had been conveyed; and
the more he reflected on his situation, the more he was overwhelmed with the most perplexing
chagrin.  He could not conceive by whose means he had been immured in a madhouse; but he heartily
repented of his knight-errantry, as a frolic which might have very serious consequences, with
respect to his future life and fortune. After mature deliberation, he resolved to demean himself
with the utmost circumspection, well knowing that every violent transport would be interpreted
into an undeniable symptom of insanity.  He was not without hope of being able to move his
jailor by a due administration of that which is generally more efficacious than all the flowers
of elocution; but when he rose in the morning, he found his pockets had been carefully examined,
and emptied of all his papers and cash.

The keeper entering, he inquired about these particulars, and was given to understand, that
they were all safe deposited for his use, to be forthcoming at a proper season.  But, at present,
as he should want nothing, he had no occasion for money.  The knight acquiesced in this declaration,
and eat his breakfast in quiet.

About eleven, he received a visit from the physician, who contemplated his looks with great
solemnity; and having examined his pulse, shook his head, saying, "Well, sir, how d'ye do?--come,
don't be dejected-- everything is for the best--you are in very good hands, sir, I assure you;
and I dare say will refuse nothing that may be thought conducive to the recovery of your health."

"Doctor," said our hero, "if it is not an improper question to ask, I should be glad to know
your opinion of my disorder."--"Oh! sir, as to that," replied the physician, "your disorder
is a--kind of a--sir, 'tis very common in this country--a sort of a"----"Do you think my distemper
is madness, doctor?"--"O Lord, sir,--not absolute madness--no--not madness--you have heard,
no doubt, of what is called a weakness of the nerves, sir,--though that is a very inaccurate
expression; for this phrase, denoting a morbid excess of sensation, seems to imply that sensation
itself is owing to the loose cohesion of those material particles which constitute the nervous
substance, inasmuch as the quantity of every effect must be proportionable to its cause; now
you'll please to take notice, sir, if the case were really what these words seem to import,
all bodies, whose particles do not cohere with too great a degree of proximity, would be nervous;
that is, endued with sensation. Sir, I shall order some cooling things to keep you in due temperature;
and you'll do very well--sir, your humble servant."

So saying, he retired, and our adventurer could not but think it was very hard that one man
should not dare to ask the most ordinary question without being reputed mad, while another
should talk nonsense by the hour, and yet be esteemed as an oracle.

The master of the house finding Sir Launcelot so tame and tractable, indulged him after dinner
with a walk in a little private garden, under the eye of a servant who followed him at a distance.
Here he was saluted by a brother-prisoner, a man seemingly turned of thirty, tall and thin,
with staring eyes, a hook-nose, and a face covered with pimples.

The usual compliments having passed, the stranger, without further ceremony, asked him if he
would oblige him with a chew of tobacco, or could spare him a mouthful of any sort of cordial,
declaring he had not tasted brandy since he came to the house.  The knight assured him it was
not in his power to comply with his request; and began to ask some questions relating to the
character of their landlord, which the stranger represented in very unfavourable colours. 
He described him as a ruffian, capable of undertaking the darkest scenes of villany.  He said
his house was a repository of the most flagrant iniquities.  That it contained fathers kidnapped
by their children, wives confined by their husbands, gentlemen of fortune sequestered by their
relations, and innocent persons immured by the malice of their adversaries.  He affirmed this
was his own case; and asked if our hero had never heard of Dick Distich, the poet and satirist.
"Ben Bullock and I," said he, "were confident against the world in arms--did you never see
his ode to me beginning with 'Fair blooming youth'?  We were sworn brothers, admired and praised,
and quoted each other, sir.  We denounced war against all the world, actors, authors, and critics;
and having drawn the sword, threw away the scabbard--we pushed through thick and thin, hacked
and hewed helter skelter, and became as formidable to the writers of the age as the Boeotian
band of Thebes.  My friend Bullock, indeed, was once rolled in the kennel; but soon

     He vig'rous rose, and from th' effluvia strong
     Imbib'd new life, and scour'd and stunk along.

The knight, having perused the papers, declared his opinion that the verses were tolerably
good; but at the same time observed that the author had reviled as ignorant dunces several
persons who had writ with reputation, and were generally allowed to have genius; a circumstance
that would detract more from his candour than could be allowed to his capacity.

"D--n their genius!" cried the satirist, "a pack of impertinent rascals! I tell you, sir, Ben
Bullock and I had determined to crush all that were not of our own party.  Besides, I said
before, this piece was written in drink."--"Was you drunk too when it was printed and published?"--"Yes,
the printer shall make affidavit that I was never otherwise than drunk or maudlin, till my
enemies, on pretence that my brain was turned, conveyed me to this infernal mansion"--

"They seem to have been your best friends," said the knight, "and have put the most tender
interpretation on your conduct; for, waiving the plea of insanity, your character must stand
as that of a man who hath some small share of genius, without an atom of integrity.  Of all
those whom Pope lashed in his Dunciad, there was not one who did not richly deserve the imputation
of dulness, and every one of them had provoked the satirist by a personal attack.  In this
respect the English poet was much more honest than his French pattern Boileau, who stigmatised
several men of acknowledged genius; such as Quinault, Perrault, and the celebrated Lulli; for
which reason every man of a liberal turn must, in spite of all his poetical merit, despise
him as a rancorous knave.  If this disingenuous conduct cannot be forgiven in a writer of his
superior genius, who will pardon it in you whose name is not half emerged from obscurity?"

"Hark ye, friend," replied the bard, "keep your pardon and your counsel for those who ask it;
or, if you will force them upon people, take one piece of advice in return.  If you don't like
your present situation, apply for a committee without delay.  They'll find you too much of
a fool to have the least tincture of madness; and you'll be released without further scruple.
In that case I shall rejoice in your deliverance; you will be freed from confinement, and I
shall be happily deprived of your conversation."

So saying, he flew off at a tangent, and our knight could not help smiling at the peculiar
virulence of his disposition.  Sir Launcelot then endeavoured to enter into conversation with
his attendant, by asking how long Mr. Distich had resided in the house; but he might as well
have addressed himself to a Turkish mute.  The fellow either pretended ignorance, or refused
an answer to every question that was proposed.  He would not even disclose the name of his
landlord, nor inform him whereabouts the house was situated.

Finding himself agitated with impatience and indignation, he returned to his apartment, and
the door being locked upon him, began to review, not without horror, the particulars of his
fate.  "How little reason," said he to himself, "have we to boast of the blessings enjoyed
by the British subject, if he holds them on such a precarious tenure; if a man of rank and
property may be thus kidnapped even in the midst of the capital; if he may be seized by ruffians,
insulted, robbed, and conveyed to such a prison as this, from which there seems to be no possibility
of escape! Should I be indulged with pen, ink, and paper, and appeal to my relations, or to
the magistrates of my country, my letters would be intercepted by those who superintend my
confinement.  Should I try to alarm the neighbourhood, my cries would be neglected as those
of some unhappy lunatic under necessary correction.  Should I employ the force which Heaven
has lent me, I might imbrue my hands in blood, and after all find it impossible to escape through
a number of successive doors, locks, bolts, and sentinels.  Should I endeavour to tamper with
the servant, he might discover my design, and then I should be abridged of the little comfort
I enjoy.  People may inveigh against the Bastile in France, and the Inquisition in Portugal;
but I would ask, if either of these be in reality so dangerous or dreadful as a private madhouse
in England, under the direction of a ruffian?  The Bastile is a state prison, the Inquisition
is a spiritual tribunal; but both are under the direction of government.  It seldom, if ever,
happens that a man entirely innocent is confined in either; or, if he should, he lays his account
with a legal trial before established judges.  But, in England, the most innocent person upon
earth is liable to be immured for life under the pretext of lunacy, sequestered from his wife,
children, and friends, robbed of his fortune, deprived even of necessaries, and subjected to
the most brutal treatment from a low-bred barbarian, who raises an ample fortune on the misery
of his fellow-creatures, and may, during his whole life, practise this horrid oppression, without
question or control."

This uncomfortable reverie was interrupted by a very unexpected sound that seemed to issue
from the other side of a thick party-wall.  It was a strain of vocal music, more plaintive
than the widowed turtle's moan, more sweet and ravishing than Philomel's love-warbled song.
Through his ear it instantly pierced into his heart; for at once he recognised it to be the
voice of his adored Aurelia.  Heavens! what was the agitation of his soul, when he made this
discovery! how did every nerve quiver! how did his heart throb with the most violent emotion!
he ran round the room in distraction, foaming like a lion in the toil--then he placed his ear
close to the partition, and listened as if his whole soul was exerted in his sense of hearing.
When the sound ceased to vibrate on his ear, he threw himself on the bed; he groaned with anguish,
he exclaimed in broken accents; and in all probability his heart would have burst, had not
the violence of his sorrow found vent in a flood of tears.

These first transports were succeeded by a fit of impatience, which had well-nigh deprived
him of his senses in good earnest.  His surprise at finding his lost Aurelia in such a place,
the seeming impossibility of relieving her, and his unspeakable eagerness to contrive some
scheme for profiting by the interesting discovery he had made, concurred in brewing up a second
ecstasy, during which he acted a thousand extravagances, which it was well for him the attendants
did not observe.  Perhaps it was well for the servant that he did not enter while the paroxysm
prevailed. Had this been the case, he might have met with the fate of Lichas, whom Hercules
in his frenzy destroyed.

Before the cloth was laid for supper, he was calm enough to conceal the disorder of his mind.
But he complained of the headache, and desired he might be next day visited by the physician,
to whom he resolved to explain himself in such a manner, as should make an impression upon
him, provided he was not altogether destitute of conscience and humanity.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR

THE KNOT THAT PUZZLES HUMAN WISDOM, THE HAND OF FORTUNE SOMETIMES WILL UNTIE FAMILIAR AS HER
GARTER.

When the doctor made his next appearance in Sir Launcelot's apartment, the knight addressed
him in these words: "Sir, the practice of medicine is one of the most honourable professions
exercised among the sons of men; a profession which hath been revered at all periods, and in
all nations, and even held sacred in the most polished ages of antiquity. The scope of it is
to preserve the being, and confirm the health of our fellow-creatures; of consequence, to sustain
the blessings of society, and crown life with fruition.  The character of a physician, therefore,
not only supposes natural sagacity, and acquired erudition, but it also implies every delicacy
of sentiment, every tenderness of nature, and every virtue of humanity.  That these qualities
are centred in you, doctor, I would willingly believe.  But it will be sufficient for my purpose,
that you are possessed of common integrity.  To whose concern I am indebted for your visits,
you best know.  But if you understand the art of medicine, you must be sensible by this time,
that, with respect to me, your prescriptions are altogether unnecessary.

"Come, sir, you cannot--you don't believe that my intellects are disordered.  Yet, granting
me to be really under the influence of that deplorable malady, no person has a right to treat
me as a lunatic, or to sue out a commission, but my nearest kindred.--That you may not plead
ignorance of my name and family, you shall understand that I am Sir Launcelot Greaves, of the
county of York, Baronet; and that my nearest relation is Sir Reginald Meadows, of Cheshire,
the eldest son of my mother's sister--that gentleman, I am sure, had no concern in seducing
me by false pretences under the clouds of night into the fields, where I was surprised, overpowered,
and kidnapped by armed ruffians.  Had he really believed me insane, he would have proceeded
according to the dictates of honour, humanity, and the laws of his country.  Situated as I
am, I have a right, by making application to the Lord Chancellor, to be tried by a jury of
honest men.  But of that right I cannot avail myself, while I remain at the mercy of a brutal
miscreant, in whose house I am enclosed, unless you contribute your assistance.  Your assistance,
therefore, I demand, as you are a gentleman, a Christian, and a fellow-subject, who, though
every other motive should be overlooked, ought to interest himself in my case as a common concern,
and concur with all your power towards the punishment of those who dare commit such outrages
against the liberty of your country."

The doctor seemed to be a little disconcerted; but, after some recollection, resumed his air
of sufficiency and importance, and assured our adventurer he would do him all the service in
his power; but in the meantime advised him to take the potion he had prescribed.

The knight's eyes lightening with indignation, "I am now convinced," cried he, "that you are
an accomplice in the villany which has been practised upon me; that you are a sordid wretch,
without principle or feeling, a disgrace to the faculty, and a reproach to human nature--yes,
sirrah, you are the most perfidious of all assassins--you are the hireling minister of the
worst of all villains; who, from motives even baser than malice, envy, and revenge, rob the
innocent of all the comforts of life, brand them with the imputation of madness, the most cruel
species of slander, and wantonly protract their misery, by leaving them in the most shocking
confinement, a prey to reflections infinitely more bitter than death but I will be calm--do
me justice at your peril. I demand the protection of the legislature--if I am refused--remember
a day of reckoning will come--you and the rest of the miscreants who have combined against
me, must, in order to cloak your treachery, have recourse to murder,--an expedient which I
believe you very capable of embracing,--or a man of my rank and character cannot be much longer
concealed.  Tremble, caitiff, at the thoughts of my release--in the meantime, be gone, lest
my just resentment impel me to dash your brains out upon that marble--away"----

The honest doctor was not so firmly persuaded of his patient's lunacy as to reject his advice,
which he made what haste he could to follow, when an unexpected accident intervened.

That this may be properly introduced, we must return to the knight's brace of trusty friends,
Captain Crowe and lawyer Clarke, whom we left in sorrowful deliberation upon the fate of their
patron.  Clarke's genius being rather more fruitful in resources than that of the seaman, he
suggested an advertisement, which was accordingly inserted in the daily papers; importing that,
"Whereas a gentleman of considerable rank and fortune had suddenly disappeared, on such a night,
from his house near Golden Square, in consequence of a letter delivered to him by a porter;
and there is great reason to believe some violence hath been offered to his life; any person
capable of giving such information as may tend to clear up this dark transaction, shall, by
applying to Mr. Thomas Clarke, attorney, at his lodgings in Upper Brook Street, receive proper
security for the reward of one hundred guineas, to be paid to him upon his making the discovery
required."

The porter who delivered the letter appeared accordingly, but could give no other information,
except that it was put into his hand with a shilling, by a man muffled up in a greatcoat, who
stopped him for the purpose, in his passing through Queen Street.  It was necessary that the
advertisement should produce an effect upon another person, who was no other than the hackney-coachman
who drove our hero to the place of his imprisonment.  This fellow had been enjoined secrecy;
and, indeed, bribed to hold his tongue, by a considerable gratification, which, it was supposed,
would have been effectual, as the man was a master coachman in good circumstances, and well
known to the keeper of the madhouse, by whom he had been employed on former occasions of the
same nature.  Perhaps his fidelity to his employer, reinforced by the hope of many future jobs
of that kind, might have been proof against the offer of fifty pounds; but double that sum
was a temptation he could not resist.  He no sooner read the intimation in the Daily Advertiser,
over his morning's pot at an alehouse, than he entered into consultation with his own thoughts;
and, having no reason to doubt that this was the very fare he had conveyed, he resolved to
earn the reward, and abstain from all such adventures in time coming.  He had the precaution,
however, to take an attorney along with him to Mr. Clarke, who entered into a conditional bond;
and, with the assistance of his uncle, deposited the money, to be forthcoming when the conditions
should be fulfilled.  These previous measures being taken, the coachman declared what he knew,
and discovered the house in which Sir Launcelot had been immured.  He, moreover, accompanied
our two adherents to a judge's chamber, where he made oath to the truth of his information;
and a warrant was immediately granted to search the house of Bernard Shackle, and set at liberty
Sir Launcelot Greaves, if there found.

Fortified with this authority, they engaged a constable, with a formidable posse, and, embarking
them in coaches, repaired with all possible expedition to the house of Mr. Shackle, who did
not think proper to dispute their claim, but admitted them, though not without betraying evident
symptoms of consternation.  One of the servants directing them, by his master's order, to Sir
Launcelot's apartment, they hurried upstairs in a body, occasioning such a noise as did not
fail to alarm the physician, who had just opened the door to retire, when he perceived their
irruption.  Captain Crowe conjecturing he was guilty from the confusion that appeared in his
countenance, made no scruple of seizing him by the collar as he endeavoured to retreat; while
the tender-hearted Tom Clarke, running up to the knight, with his eyes brimful of joy and affection,
forgot all the forms of distant respect, and throwing his arms round his neck, blubbered in
his bosom.

Our hero did not receive this proof of attachment unmoved.  He strained him in his embrace,
honoured him with the title of his deliverer, and asked him by what miracle he had discovered
the place of his confinement. The lawyer began to unfold the various steps he had taken with
equal minuteness and self-complacency, when Crowe, dragging the doctor still by the collar,
shook his old friend by the hand, protesting he was never so overjoyed since he got clear of
a Sallee rover on the coast of Barbary; and that two glasses ago he would have started all
the money he had in the world in the hold of any man who would have shown Sir Launcelot safe
at his moorings.  The knight having made a proper return to this sincere manifestation of goodwill,
desired him to dismiss that worthless fellow, meaning the doctor; who, finding himself released,
withdrew with some precipitation.

Then our adventurer, attended by his friends, walked off with a deliberate pace to the outward
gate, which he found open, and getting into one of the coaches, was entertained by the way
to his own house with a detail of every measure which had been pursued for his release.

In his own parlour he found Mrs. Dolly Cowslip, who had been waiting with great fear and impatience
for the issue of Mr. Clarke's adventure.  She now fell upon her knees, and bathed the knight's
hands with tears of joy; while the face of this young woman, recalling the idea of her mistress,
roused his heart to strong emotions, and stimulated his mind to the immediate achievement he
had already planned.  As for Mr. Crabshaw, he was not the last to signify his satisfaction
at his master's return. After having kissed the hem of his garment, he retired to the stable,
where he communicated these tidings to his friend Gilbert, whom he saddled and bridled; the
same office he performed for Bronzomarte; then putting on his squire-like attire and accoutrements,
he mounted one, and led the other to the knight's door, before which he paraded, uttering,
from time to time, repeated shouts, to the no small entertainment of the populace, until he
received orders to house his companions.  Thus commanded, he led them back to their stalls,
resumed his livery, and rejoined his fellow-servants, who were resolved to celebrate the day
with banquets and rejoicings.

Their master's heart was not sufficiently at ease to share in their festivity.  He held a consultation
with his friends in the parlour, whom he acquainted with the reasons he had to believe Miss
Darnel was confined in the same house which had been his prison; a circumstance which filled
them with equal pleasure and astonishment.  Dolly in particular, weeping plentifully, conjured
him to deliver her dear lady without delay. Nothing now remained but to concert the plan for
her deliverance.  As Aurelia had informed Dolly of her connexion with Mrs. Kawdle, at whose
house she proposed to lodge, before she was overtaken on the road by her uncle, this particular
was now imparted to the council, and struck a light which seemed to point out the direct way
to Miss Darnel's enlargement.

Our hero, accompanied by Mrs. Cowslip and Tom Clarke, set out immediately for the house of
Dr. Kawdle, who happened to be abroad, but his wife received them with great courtesy.  She
was a well-bred, sensible, genteel woman, and strongly attached to Aurelia by the ties of affection,
as well as of consanguinity.  She no sooner learned the situation of her cousin than she expressed
the most impatient concern for her being set at liberty, and assured Sir Launcelot she would
concur in any scheme he should propose for that purpose.  There was no room for hesitation
or choice; he attended her immediately to the judge, who, upon proper application, issued another
search-warrant for Aurelia Darnel.  The constable and his posse were again retained, and Sir
Launcelot Greaves once more crossed the threshold of Mr. Bernard Shackle.  Nor was the search-warrant
the only implement of justice with which he had furnished himself for this visit.  In going
thither they agreed upon the method in which they should introduce themselves gradually to
Miss Darnel, that her tender nature might not be too much shocked by their sudden appearance.

When they arrived at the house, therefore, and produced their credentials, in consequence of
which a female attendant was directed to show the lady's apartment, Mrs. Dolly first entered
the chamber of the accomplished Aurelia, who, lifting up her eyes, screamed aloud, and flew
into the arms of her faithful Cowslip.  Some minutes elapsed before Dolly could make shift
to exclaim, "Am coom to live and daai with my beloved leady!"--"Dear Dolly!" cried her mistress,
"I cannot express the pleasure I have in seeing you again.  Good Heaven! what solitary hours
of keen affliction have I passed since we parted!--but, tell me, how did you discover the place
of my retreat?--has my uncle relented?--do I owe your coming to his indulgence?"

Dolly answered in the negative; and by degrees gave her to understand that her cousin, Mrs.
Kawdle, was in the next room; that lady immediately appeared, and a very tender scene of recognition
passed between the two relations.  It was she who, in the course of conversation, perceiving
that Aurelia was perfectly composed, declared the happy tidings of her approaching deliverance.
When the other eagerly insisted upon knowing to whose humanity and address she was indebted
for this happy turn of fortune, her cousin declared the obligation was due to a young gentleman
of Yorkshire, called Sir Launcelot Greaves.  At mention of that name her face was overspread
with a crimson glow, and her eyes beamed redoubled splendour.  "Cousin," said she, with a sigh,
"I know not what to say-- that gentleman, Sir Launcelot Greaves, was surely born--Lord bless
me! I tell you, cousin, he has been my guardian angel."

Mrs. Kawdle, who had maintained a correspondence with her by letters, was no stranger to the
former part of the connexion subsisting between those two lovers, and had always favoured the
pretensions of our hero, without being acquainted with his person.  She now observed with a
smile, that as Aurelia esteemed the knight her guardian angel, and he adored her as a demi-deity,
nature seemed to have intended them for each other; for such sublime ideas exalted them both
above the sphere of ordinary mortals. She then ventured to intimate that he was in the house,
impatient to pay his respects in person.  At this declaration the colour vanished from her
cheeks, which, however, soon underwent a total suffusion.  Her heart panted, her bosom heaved,
and her gentle frame was agitated by transports rather violent than unpleasing.  She soon,
however, recollected herself, and her native serenity returned; when, rising from her seat,
she declared he would see him in the next apartment, where he stood in the most tumultuous
suspense, waiting for permission to approach her person. Here she broke in upon him, arrayed
in an elegant white undress, the emblem of her purity, beaming forth the emanations of amazing
beauty, warmed and improved with a glow of gratitude and affection.  His heart was too big
for utterance; he ran towards her with rapture, and throwing himself at her feet, imprinted
a most respectful kiss upon her lily hand.--"This, divine Aurelia," cried he, "is a foretaste
of that ineffable bliss which you was born to bestow!--Do I then live to see you smile again?
to see you restored to liberty, your mind at ease, and your health unimpaired?"--"You have
lived," said she, "to see my obligations to Sir Launcelot Greaves accumulated in such a manner,
that a whole life spent in acknowledgment will scarce suffice to demonstrate a due sense of
his goodness."--"You greatly overrate my services, which have been rather the duties of common
humanity, than the efforts of a generous passion, too noble to be thus evinced;--but let not
my unseasonable transports detain you a moment longer on this detested scene.  Give me leave
to hand you into the coach, and commit you to the care of this good lady, attended by this
honest young gentleman, who is my particular friend." So saying, he presented Mr. Thomas Clarke,
who had the honour to salute the fair hand of the ever-amiable Aurelia.

The ladies being safely coached under the escort of the lawyer, Sir Launcelot assured them
he should wait on them in the evening at the house of Dr. Kawdle, whither they immediately
directed their course.  Our hero, who remained with the constable and his gang, inquired for
Mr. Bernard Shackle, upon whose person he intended to serve a writ of conspiracy, over and
above a prosecution for robbery, in consequence of his having disencumbered the knight of his
money and other effects, on the first night of his confinement.  Mr. Shackle had discretion
enough to avoid this encounter, and even to anticipate the indictment for felony, by directing
one of his servants to restore the cash and papers, which our adventurer accordingly received
before he quitted the house.

In the prosecution of his search after Shackle, he chanced to enter the chamber of the bard,
whom he found in dishabille, writing at a table, with a bandage over one eye, and his head
covered with a nightcap of baize.  The knight, having made an apology for this intrusion, desired
to know if he could be of any service to Mr. Distich, as he was now at liberty to use the little
influence he had for the relief of his fellow-sufferers.--The poet having eyed him for some
time askance, "I told you," said he, "your stay in this place would be of short duration. --I
have sustained a small disaster on my left eye, from the hands of a rascally cordwainer, who
pretends to believe himself the King of Prussia, and I am now in the very act of galling his
majesty with keen iambics.-- If you can help me to a roll of tobacco and a bottle of geneva,
so;--if you are not so inclined, your humble servant, I shall share in the joy of your deliverance."

The knight declined gratifying him in these particulars, which he apprehended might be prejudicial
to his health, but offered his assistance in redressing his grievances, provided he laboured
under any cruel treatment or inconvenience.  "I comprehend the full extent of your generosity,"
replied the satirist; "you are willing to assist me in everything, except the only circumstances
in which assistance is required--God b'w'ye--If you see Ben Bullock, tell him I wish he would
not dedicate any more of his works to me.--D--n the fellow, he has changed his note, and begins
to snivel.--For my part, I stick to my former maxim, defy all the world, and will die hard,
even if death should be preceded by damnation."

The knight, finding him incorrigible, left him to the slender chance of being one day comforted
by the dram-bottle; but resolved, if possible, to set on foot an accurate inquiry into the
economy and transactions of this private inquisition, that ample justice might be done in favour
of every injured individual confined within its walls.

In the afternoon he did not fail to visit his Aurelia; and all the protestations of their mutual
passion were once more interchanged.  He now produced the letter which had caused such fatal
disquiet in his bosom; and Miss Darnel no sooner eyed the paper, than she recollected it was
a formal dismission, which she had intended and directed for Mr. Sycamore.  This the uncle
had intercepted, and cunningly enclosed in another cover, addressed to Sir Launcelot Greaves,
who was now astonished beyond measure to see the mystery so easily unfolded.  The joy that
now diffused itself in the hearts of our lovers, is more easily conceived than described; but,
in order to give a stability to this mutual satisfaction, it was necessary that Aurelia should
be secured from the tyranny of her uncle, whose power of guardianship would not otherwise expire
for some months.

Dr. Kawdle and his lady having entered into their deliberations on the subject, it was agreed
that Miss Darnel should have recourse to the protection of the Lord Chancellor; but such application
was rendered unnecessary by the unexpected arrival of John Clump with the following letter
to Mrs. Kawdle from the steward of Anthony Darnel, dated at Aurelia's house in the country:--

"MADAM,--It hath pleased God to afflict Mr. Darnel with a severe stroke of the dead palsy.--He
was taken ill yesterday, and now lies insensible, seemingly at the point of death.  Among the
papers in his pocket I found the enclosed, by which it appears that my honoured young lady,
Miss Darnel, is confined in a private madhouse.  I am afraid Mr. Darnel's fate is a just judgment
of God upon him for his cruelty to that excellent person.  I need not exhort you, madam, to
take immediately upon the receipt of this, such measures as will be necessary for the enlargement
of my poor young lady.  In the meantime, I shall do the needful for the preservation of her
property in this place, and send you an account of any further alteration that may happen;
being very respectfully, madam, your most obedient humble servant,              RALPH MATTOCKS."

Clump had posted up to London with this intimation on the wings of love, and being covered
with clay from the heels to the eyes upwards, he appeared in such an unfavourable light at
Dr. Kawdle's door, that the footman refused him admittance.  Nevertheless, he pushed him aside,
and fought his way upstairs into the dining-room, where the company was not a little astonished
at such an apparition.

The fellow himself was no less amazed at seeing Aurelia and his own sweetheart Mrs. Dolly Cowslip.
He forthwith fell upon his knees, and in silence held out the letter, which was taken by the
doctor, and presented to his wife, according to the direction.  She did not fail to communicate
the contents, which were far from being unwelcome to the individuals who composed this little
society.  Mr. Clump was honoured with the approbation of his young lady, who commended him
for his zeal and expedition; bestowed upon him a handsome gratuity in the meantime, and desired
to see him again when he should be properly refreshed after the fatigue he had undergone.

Mr. Thomas Clarke being consulted on this occasion, gave it as his opinion, that Miss Darnel
should, without delay, choose another guardian for the few months that remained of her minority.
The opinion was confirmed by the advice of some eminent lawyers, to whom immediate recourse
was had; and Dr. Kawdle being the person pitched upon for this office, the necessary forms
were executed with all possible despatch.

The first use the doctor made of his guardianship was to sign a power, constituting Mr. Ralph
Mattocks his attorney pro tempore for managing the estate of Miss Aurelia Darnel; and this
was forwarded to the steward by the hands of Clump, who set out with it for the seat of Darnel
Hill, though not without a heavy heart, occasioned by some intimation he had received concerning
the connexion between his dear Dolly and Mr. Clarke, the lawyer.

CHAPTER THE LAST

WHICH, IT IS TO BE HOPED, WILL BE, ON MORE ACCOUNTS THAN ONE, AGREEABLE TO THE READER.

Sir Launcelot, having vindicated the liberty, confirmed the safety, and secured the heart of
his charming Aurelia, now found leisure to unravel the conspiracy which had been executed against
his person; and with that view commenced a lawsuit against the owner of the house where he
and his mistress had been separately confined.  Mr. Shackle was, notwithstanding all the submissions
and atonement which he offered to make, either in private or in public, indicted on the statute
of kidnapping, tried, convicted, punished by a severe fine and standing in the pillory.  A
judicial writ ad inquirendum being executed, the prisons of his inquisition were laid open,
and several innocent captives enlarged.

In the course of Shackle's trial, it appeared that the knight's confinement was a scheme executed
by his rival Mr. Sycamore, according to the device of his counsellor, Dawdle, who, by this
contrivance, had reconciled himself to his patron, after having deserted him in the day of
battle.  Our hero was so incensed at this discovery of Sycamore's treachery and ingratitude,
that he went in quest of him immediately, to take vengeance on his person, accompanied by Captain
Crowe, who wanted to balance accounts with Mr. Dawdle.  But those gentlemen had wisely avoided
the impending storm, by retiring to the continent, on pretence of travelling for improvement.

Sir Launcelot was not now so much of a knight-errant as to leave Aurelia to the care of Providence,
and pursue the traitors to the farthest extremities of the earth.  He practised a much more
easy, certain, and effectual method of revenge, by instituting a process against them, which,
after writs of capias, alias et pluries, had been repeated, subjected them both to outlawry.
Mr. Sycamore, and his friend, being thus deprived of the benefit of the law by their own neglect,
would likewise have forfeited their goods and chattels to the King, had not they made such
submissions as appeased the wrath of Sir Launcelot and Captain Crowe; then they ventured to
return, and, by dint of interest, obtained a reversal of the outlawry.  But this grace they
did not enjoy till long after our adventurer was happily established in life.

While the knight waited impatiently for the expiration of Aurelia's minority, and in the meantime
consoled himself with the imperfect happiness arising from her conversation, and those indulgences
which the most unblemished virtue could bestow, Captain Crowe projected another plan of vengeance
against the conjurer, whose lying oracles had cost him such a world of vexation.  The truth
is, the captain began to be tired of idleness, and undertook this adventure to keep his hand
in use.  He imparted his design to Crabshaw, who had likewise suffered in spirit from the predictions
of the said offender, and was extremely well disposed to assist in punishing the false prophet.
He now took it for granted that he should not be hanged for stealing a horse; and thought it
very hard to pay so much money for a deceitful prophecy, which, in all likelihood, would never
be fulfilled.

Actuated by these motives, they set out together for the house of consultation, but they found
it shut up and abandoned; and, upon inquiry in the neighbourhood, learned that the conjurer
had moved his quarters that very day on which the captain had recourse to his art.  This was
actually the case.  He knew the fate of Sir Launcelot would soon come to light, and he did
not choose to wait the consequence.  He had other motives for decamping.  He had run a score
at the public-house, which he had no mind to discharge, and wanted to disengage himself from
his female associate, who knew too much of his affairs to be kept at a proper distance.  All
these purposes he had answered by retreating softly, without beat of drum, while his sibyl
was abroad running down prey for his devouring.  He had not, however, taken his measures so
cunningly, but that this old hag discovered his new lodgings, and, in revenge, gave information
to the publican.  This creditor took out a writ accordingly, and the bailiff had just secured
his person, as Captain Crowe and Timothy Crabshaw chanced to pass by the door in their way
homewards, through an obscure street, near the Seven Dials.

The conjurer having no subterfuge left, but a great many particular reasons for avoiding an
explanation with the justice, like the man between the devil and the deep sea, of two evils
chose the least; and beckoning to the captain, called him by his name.  Crowe, thus addressed,
replied with a "Hilloah!" and looking towards the place from whence he was hailed, at once
recognised the necromancer.  Without farther hesitation, he sprang across the street, and,
collaring Albumazar, exclaimed, "Aha! old boy, is the wind in that corner?  I thought we should
grapple one day--now will I bring you up by the head, though all the devils in hell were blowing
abaft the beam."

The bailiff seeing his prisoner so roughly handled before, and at the same time assaulted behind
by Crabshaw, who cried, "Show me a liar, and I'll show you a thief--who is to be hanged now?"
I say, the bailiff, fearing he should lose the benefit of his job, began to put on his contentious
face, and, declaring the doctor was his prisoner, swore he could not surrender him without
a warrant from the Lord Chief Justice. The whole group adjourning into the parlour, the conjurer
desired to know of Crowe whether Sir Launcelot was found.  Being answered, "Ey, ey, safe enough
to see you made fast in the bilboes, brother"; he told the captain he had something of consequence
to communicate for his advantage; and proposed that Crowe and Crabshaw should bail the action,
which lay only for a debt of three pounds.

Crowe stormed, and Crabshaw grinned at this modest proposal; but when they understood that
they could only be bound for his appearance, and reflected that they need not part with him
until his body should be surrendered unto justice, they consented to give bail; and the bond
being executed, conveyed him directly to the house of our adventurer.

The boisterous Crowe introduced him to Sir Launcelot with such an abrupt unconnected detail
of his offence, as the knight could not understand without Timothy's annotations.  These were
followed by some questions put to the conjurer, who, laying aside his black gown, and plucking
off his white beard, exhibited to the astonished spectators the very individual countenance
of the empirical politician Ferret, who had played our hero such a slippery trick after the
electioneering adventure.

"I perceive," said he, "you are preparing to expostulate, and upbraid me for having given a
false information against you to the country justice. I look upon mankind to be in a state
of nature; a truth, which Hobbes has stumbled upon by accident.  I think every man has a right
to avail himself of his talents, even at the expense of his fellow-creatures; just as we see
the fish, and other animals of the creation, devouring one another.  I found the justice but
one degree removed from idiotism, and knowing that he would commit some blunder in the execution
of his office, which would lay him at your mercy, I contrived to make his folly the instrument
of my escape--I was dismissed without being obliged to sign the information I had given; and
you took ample vengeance for his tyranny and impertinence.  I came to London, where my circumstances
obliged me to live in disguise.  In the character of a conjurer, I was consulted by your follower,
Crowe, and your squire, Crabshaw.  I did little or nothing but echo back the intelligence they
brought me, except prognosticating that Crabshaw would be hanged; a prediction to which I found
myself so irresistibly impelled, that I am persuaded it was the real effect of inspiration.
I am now arrested for a paltry sum of money, and, moreover, liable to be sent to Bridewell
as an impostor; let those answer for my conduct whose cruelty and insolence have driven me
to the necessity of using such subterfuges.  I have been oppressed and persecuted by the government
for speaking truth; your omnipotent laws have reconciled contradictions.  That which is acknowledged
to be truth in fact, is construed falsehood in law; and great reason we have to boast of a
constitution founded on the basis of absurdity.  But, waiving these remarks, I own I am unwilling
to be either imprisoned for debt, or punished for imposture.  I know how far to depend upon
generosity, and what is called benevolence--words to amuse the weak-minded; I build upon a
surer bottom.  I will bargain for your assistance.  It is in my power to put twelve thousand
pounds in the pocket of Samuel Crowe, that there sea-ruffian, who, by his goodwill, would hang
me to the yard's arm"----

There he was interrupted by the seaman.  "D--n your rat's eyes! none of your--hang thee! fish
my top-masts! if the rope was fairly reeved, and the tackle sound, d'ye see"--Mr. Clarke, who
was present, began to stare, while the knight assured Ferret, that if he was really able and
willing to serve Captain Crowe in anything essential, he should be amply rewarded.  In the
meantime he discharged the debt, and assigned him an apartment in his own house.  That same
day Crowe, by the advice of Sir Launcelot and his nephew, entered into conditional articles
with the cynic, to allow him the interest of fifteen hundred pounds for life, provided by this
means the captain should obtain possession of the estate of Hobby Hole in Yorkshire, which
had belonged to his grandfather, and of which he was heir of blood.

This bond being executed, Mr. Ferret discovered that he himself was the lawful husband of Bridget
Maple, aunt to Samuel Crowe, by a clandestine marriage; which, however, he convinced them he
could prove by undeniable evidence.  This being the case, she, the said Bridget Maple, alias
Ferret, was a covert femme, consequently could not transact any deed of alienation without
his concurrence; ergo, the docking of the entail of the estate of Hobby Hole was illegal and
of none effect.  This was a very agreeable declaration to the whole company, who did not fail
to congratulate Captain Crowe on the prospect of his being restored to his inheritance.  Tom
Clarke, in particular, protested, with tears in his eyes, that it gave him unspeakable joy;
and his tears trickled the faster, when Crowe, with an arch look, signified, that now he was
pretty well victualled for life, he had some thoughts of embarking on the voyage of matrimony.

But that point of happiness to which, as the north pole, the course of these adventures hath
been invariably directed, was still unattained; we mean, the indissoluble union of the accomplished
Sir Launcelot Greaves and the enchanting Miss Darnel.  Our hero now discovered in his mistress
a thousand charms, which hitherto he had no opportunity to contemplate. He found her beauty
excelled by her good sense, and her virtue superior to both.  He found her untainted by that
giddiness, vanity, and affectation, which distinguish the fashionable females of the present
age.  He found her uninfected by the rage for diversion and dissipation; for noise, tumult,
gewgaws, glitter, and extravagance.  He found her not only raised by understanding and taste
far above the amusement of little vulgar minds; but even exalted by uncommon genius and refined
reflection, so as to relish the more sublime enjoyments of rational pleasure.  He found her
possessed of that vigour of mind which constitutes true fortitude, and vindicates the empire
of reason.  He found her heart incapable of disguise or dissimulation; frank, generous, and
open; susceptible of the most tender impressions; glowing with a keen sense of honour, and
melting with humanity.  A youth of his sensibility could not fail of being deeply affected
by such attractions.  The nearer he approached the centre of happiness, the more did the velocity
of his passion increase.  Her uncle still remained insensible as it were in the arms of death.
Time seemed to linger in its lapse, till the knight was inflamed to the most eager degree of
impatience.  He communicated his distress to Aurelia; he pressed her with the most pathetic
remonstrances to abridge the torture of his suspense.  He interested Mrs. Kawdle in his behalf;
and, at length, his importunities succeeded.  The banns of marriage were regularly published,
and the ceremony was performed in the parish church, in the presence of Dr. Kawdle and his
lady, Captain Crowe, Lawyer Clarke, and Mrs. Dolly Cowslip.

The bride, instead of being disguised in tawdry stuffs of gold and silver, and sweating under
a harness of diamonds, according to the elegant taste of the times, appeared in a negligee
of plain blue satin, without any other jewels than her eyes, which far outshone all that ever
was produced by the mines of Golconda.  Her hair had no other extraneous ornament than a small
sprig of artificial roses; but the dignity of her air, the elegance of her shape, the sweetness
and sensibility of her countenance, added to such warmth of colouring, and such exquisite symmetry
of features, as could not be excelled by human nature, attracted the eyes and excited the admiration
of all the beholders.  The effect they produced in the heart of Sir Launcelot was such a rapture
as we cannot pretend to describe.  He made his appearance on this occasion in a white coat
and blue satin vest, both embroidered with silver; and all who saw him could not but own that
he alone seemed worthy to possess the lady whom Heaven had destined for his consort.  Captain
Crowe had taken off a blue suit of clothes strongly guarded with bars of broad gold-lace, in
order to honour the nuptials of his friend.  He wore upon his head a bag-wig, a la pigeon,
made by an old acquaintance in Wapping; and to his side he had girded a huge plate-hilted sword,
which he had bought of a recruiting serjeant.  Mr. Clarke was dressed in pompadour, with gold
buttons; and his lovely Dolly in a smart checked lutestring, a present from her mistress.

The whole company dined, by invitation, at the house of Dr. Kawdle; and here it was that the
most deserving lovers on the face of the earth attained to the consummation of all earthly
felicity.  The captain and his nephew had a hint to retire in due time.  Mrs. Kawdle conducted
the amiable Aurelia, trembling, to the marriage-bed; our hero, glowing with a bridegroom's
ardour, claimed the husband's privilege.  Hymen lighted up his brightest torch at Virtue's
lamp, and every star shed its happiest influence on their Heaven-directed union.

Instructions had been already despatched to prepare Greavesbury Hall for the reception of its
new mistress; and for that place the new-married couple set out next morning, according to
the plan which had been previously concerted.  Sir Launcelot and Lady Greaves, accompanied
by Mrs. Kawdle and attended by Dolly, travelled in their own coach, drawn by six dappled horses.
Dr. Kawdle, with Captain Crowe, occupied the doctor's post-chariot, provided with four bays.
Mr. Clarke had the honour to bestride the loins of Bronzomarte.  Mr. Ferret was mounted upon
an old hunter; Crabshaw stuck close to his friend Gilbert; and two other horsemen completed
the retinue.  There was not an aching heart in the whole cavalcade, except that of the young
lawyer, which was by turns invaded with hot desires and chilling scruples.  Though he was fond
of Dolly to distraction, his regard to worldly reputation, and his attention to worldly interest,
were continually raising up bars to a legal gratification of his love.  His pride was startled
at the thought of marrying the daughter of a poor country publican; and he moreover dreaded
the resentment of his uncle Crowe, should he take any step of this nature without his concurrence.
Many a wishful look did he cast at Dolly, the tears standing in his eyes, and many a woful
sigh did he utter.

Lady Greaves immediately perceived the situation of his heart, and, by questioning Mrs. Cowslip,
discovered a mutual passion between these lovers.  She consulted her dear knight on the subject,
and he catechised the lawyer, who pleaded guilty.  The captain being sounded as to his opinion,
declared he would be steered in that, as well as every other course of life, by Sir Launcelot
and his lady, whom he verily revered as being of an order superior to the ordinary race of
mankind.  This favourable response being obtained from the sailor, our hero took an opportunity
on the road, one day after dinner, in presence of the whole company, to accost the lawyer in
these words: "My good friend Clarke, I have your happiness very much at heart--your father
was an honest man, to whom my family had manifold obligations.  I have had these many years
a personal regard for yourself, derived from your own integrity of heart and goodness of disposition--I
see, you are affected, and shall be brief --Besides this regard, I am indebted to your friendship
for the liberty-- what shall I say?--for the inestimable happiness I now enjoy, in possessing
the most excellent--But I understand that significant glance of my Aurelia, I will not offend
her delicacy--The truth is, my obligation is very great, and it is time I should evince my
gratitude-- If the stewardship of my estate is worth your acceptance, you shall have it immediately,
together with the house and farm of Cockerton in my neighbourhood.  I know you have a passion
for Mrs. Dolly; and believe she looks upon you with the eyes of tender prepossession--don't
blush, Dolly --Besides your agreeable person, which all the world must approve, you can boast
of virtue, fidelity, and friendship.  Your attachment to Lady Greaves neither she nor I shall
ever forget--If you are willing to unite your fate with Mr. Clarke, your mistress gives me
leave to assure you she will stock the farm at her own expense, and we will celebrate the wedding
at Greavesbury Hall"--

By this time the hearts of these grateful lovers had overflowed.  Dolly was sitting on her
knees, bathing her lady's hand with her tears, and Mr. Clarke appeared in the same attitude
by Sir Launcelot.  The uncle, almost as affected as the nephew by the generosity of our adventurer,
cried aloud, "I pray God that you and your glorious consort may have smooth seas and gentle
gales whithersoever you are bound; as for my kinsman Tom, I'll give him a thousand pounds to
set him fairly afloat; and if he prove not a faithful tender to you his benefactor, I hope
he will founder in this world, and be damned in that which is to come."  Nothing now was wanting
to the completion of their happiness but the consent of Dolly's mother at the Black Lion, who
they did not suppose could have any objection to such an advantageous match for her daughter;
but in this particular they were mistaken.

In the meantime they arrived at the village where the knight had exercised the duties of chivalry;
and there he received the gratulation of Mr. Fillet and the attorney who had offered to bail
him before Justice Gobble.  Mutual civilities having passed, they gave him to understand that
Gobble and his wife were turned Methodists.  All the rest of the prisoners whom he had delivered
came to testify their gratitude, and were hospitably entertained.  Next day they halted at
the Black Lion, where the good woman was overjoyed to see Dolly so happily preferred; but when
Sir Launcelot unfolded the proposed marriage, she interrupted him with a scream--"Christ Jesus
forbid--marry and amen!--match with her own brother!"

At this exclamation Dolly fainted; her lover stood with his ears erect, and his mouth wide
open; Crowe stared, while the knight and his lady expressed equal surprise and concern.  When
Sir Launcelot entreated Mrs. Cowslip to explain this mystery, she told him, that about sixteen
years ago, Mr. Clarke, senior, had brought Dolly, then an infant, to her house, when she and
her late husband lived in another part of the country; and as she had then been lately delivered
of a child which did not live, he hired her as a nurse to the little foundling.  He owned she
was a love-begotten babe, and from time to time paid handsomely for the board of Dolly, who
he desired might pass for her own daughter.  In his last illness, he assured her he had taken
care to provide for the child; but since his death she had received no account of any such
provision.  She moreover informed his honour, that Mr. Clarke had deposited in her hands a
diamond ring, and a sealed paper, never to be opened without his order, until Dolly should
be demanded in marriage by the man she should like, and not then, except in the presence of
the clergyman of the parish. "Send for the clergyman this instant," cried our hero, reddening,
and fixing his eyes on Dolly; "I hope all will yet be well."

The vicar arriving, and being made acquainted with the nature of the case, the landlady produced
the paper; which, being opened, appeared to be an authentic certificate, that the person commonly
known by the name of Dorothy Cowslip, was in fact Dorothy Greaves, daughter of Jonathan Greaves,
Esq., by a young gentlewoman who had been some years deceased.

"The remaining part of the mystery I myself can unfold," exclaimed the knight, while he ran
and embraced the astonished Dolly as his kinswoman. "Jonathan Greaves was my uncle, and died
before he came of age, so that he could make no settlement on his child, the fruit of a private
amour, founded on a promise of marriage, of which this ring was a token.  Mr. Clarke, being
his confidant, disposed of the child, and at length, finding his constitution decay, revealed
the secret to my father, who in his will bequeathed one hundred pounds a year to this agreeable
foundling; but, as they both died while I was abroad, and some of the memorandums touching
this transaction probably were mislaid, I never till now could discover where or how my pretty
cousin was situated.  I shall recompense the good woman for her care and fidelity, and take
pleasure in bringing this affair to a happy issue."

The lovers were now overwhelmed with transports of joy and gratitude, and every countenance
was lighted up with satisfaction.  From this place to the habitation of Sir Launcelot, the
bells were rung in every parish, and the corporation in their formalities congratulated him
in every town through which he passed.  About five miles from Greavesbury Hall he was met by
above five thousand persons of both sexes and every age, dressed out in their gayest apparel,
headed by Mr. Ralph Mattocks from Darnel Hill, and the rector from the knight's own parish.
They were preceded by music of different kinds, ranged under a great variety of flags and ensigns;
and the women, as well as the men, bedizened with fancy knots and marriage favours.  At the
end of the avenue, a select bevy of comely virgins arrayed in white, and a separate band of
choice youths distinguished by garlands of laurel and holly interweaved, fell into the procession,
and sung in chorus a rustic epithalamium composed by the curate.  At the gate they were received
by the venerable housekeeper, Mrs. Oakley, whose features were so brightened by the occasion,
that with the first glance she made a conquest of the heart of Captain Crowe; and this connexion
was improved afterwards into a legal conjunction.

Meanwhile the houses of Greavesbury Hall and Darnel Hill were set open for the entertainment
of all-comers, and both echoed with the sounds of festivity.  After the ceremony of giving
and receiving visits had been performed by Sir Launcelot Greaves and his lady, Mr. Clarke was
honoured with the hand of the agreeable Miss Dolly Greaves; and the captain was put in possession
of his paternal estate.  The perfect and uninterrupted felicity of the knight and his endearing
consort, diffused itself through the whole adjacent country, as far as their example and influence
could extend.  They were admired, esteemed, and applauded by every person of taste, sentiment,
and benevolence; at the same time beloved, revered, and almost adored by the common people,
among whom they suffered not the merciless hand of indigence or misery to seize one single
sacrifice.

Ferret, at first, seemed to enjoy his easy circumstances; but the novelty of this situation
soon wore off, and all his misanthropy returned.  He could not bear to see his fellow-creatures
happy around him, and signified his disgust to Sir Launcelot, declaring his intention of returning
to the metropolis, where he knew there would be always food sufficient for the ravenous appetite
of his spleen.  Before he departed, the knight made him partake of his bounty, though he could
not make him taste of his happiness, which soon received a considerable addition in the birth
of a son, destined to be the heir and representative of two worthy families, whose mutual animosity
the union of his parents had so happily extinguished.

THE END