Then comes the death of Edward, and the tapestry story struggles ineffectually with the incidents
of his death and funeral; and the election of Harold as King of England, showing him seated
crowned and in royal robes under a very primitive canopy. After this, the scene shifts again
to France, and portrays the preparations for invasion made by the Duke of Normandy, who was
called by the people of the country he invaded "William the Conqueror," and who have continued
to know him only by that name through all succeeding centuries, the shame and sorrow of vanquishment
quite buried under the glory of the performance, Saxon and Norman uniting in esteem of the
successful result.

All this history is duly set forth in archaic simplicity by the stitches of Queen Matilda,
who, in preserving the record of the deeds of her doughty lord, has set down also a record
of herself as the ideal wife, who glorifies her husband, and merges all she is of woman into
that condition--and still it is only a strip of linen worked in crewels. All the triumphs of
the great Conqueror are written upon it, but none of the disappointments. The needlework story
does not relate (how could it when Matilda's active, trained and industrious fingers had been
stilled by death?) the sorrows which overcame even her fortunate hero--that his body was robbed
of its clothing, and lay naked and dishonored beside a disputed grave, where even the solemn
claim of death to burial was resisted until an old wrong "done in the body" was righted. And
though his son reigned after him, and he founded a royal line, perhaps one of the greatest
enjoyments of his successful life consisted in watching the fingers of his well-beloved Matilda
as they worked this linen record.

Of course it is the great events it portrays and the human interest it holds which make this
tapestry exceedingly valuable, for, artistically, it is of no more value than a child's sampler.
But, simple as it is, volumes have been written about it. Scholars and historians have pored
over its pictured history, money without stint has been spent in paper reproductions of it,
and, finally, the whole important embroidery society of Leeds, England, spent two industrious
years in copying it, and earned fame and envy thereby.

The wonderful remains of the work of skilled fingers serve to dignify the art of which it is
capable, and to sing a varied song in the ears of the modern embroiderer, who follows her own
will in spite of time-hallowed examples. The women of today, 1920, have been called to work
that is widely different from that of the ages when embroidery was a natural recourse and almost
universal practice, but it is an art which has done too much for the progress of the world,
in all its different phases, to die, or to cease to progress. There will always be quiet souls,
whose lives have been made so by circumstances, who will find solace in the practice of needlework,
so we may safely leave with them an art which has done so much for mankind.

                    THE END

       *       *       *       *       *

The following corrections have been applied to the text:

Porcupine quill work seems to have
been no longer practiced,
    'no' is missing in the original text

which were novelties to the imported artisan.
    corrected from 'novelites'

Miss Mather or Miss Coffin or Miss Hooker
    'of' corrected to 'or'