I met in the Generalissimo a man of great vision, great courage, and a remarkably keen understanding
of the problems of today and tomorrow.  We discussed all the manifold military plans for striking
at Japan with decisive force from many directions, and I believe I can say that he returned
to Chungking with the positive assurance of total victory over our common enemy.  Today we
and the Republic of China are closer together than ever before in deep friendship and in unity
of purpose.

After the Cairo conference, Mr. Churchill and I went by airplane to Teheran.  There we met
with Marshal Stalin.  We talked with complete frankness on every conceivable subject connected
with the winning of the war and the establishment of a durable peace after the war.

Within three days of intense and consistently amicable discussions, we agreed on every point
concerned with the launching of a gigantic attack upon Germany.

The Russian army will continue its stern offensives on Germany's Eastern front, the allied
armies in Italy and Africa will bring relentless pressure on Germany from the south, and now
the encirclement will be complete as great American and British forces attack from other points
of the compass.

The Commander selected to lead the combined attack from these other points is General Dwight
D. Eisenhower.  His performances in Africa, in Sicily and in Italy have been brilliant.  He
knows by practical and successful experience the way to coordinate air, sea and land power.
All of these will be under his control.  Lieutenant General Carl D. Spaatz will command the
entire American strategic bombing force operating against Germany.

General Eisenhower gives up his command in the Mediterranean to a British officer whose name
is being announced by Mr. Churchill.  We now pledge that new Commander that our powerful ground,
sea and air forces in the vital Mediterranean area will stand by his side until every objective
in that bitter theatre is attained.

Both of these new Commanders will have American and British subordinate Commanders whose names
will be announced to the world in a few days.

During the last two days at Teheran, Marshal Stalin, Mr. Churchill and I looked ahead--ahead
to the days and months and years that will follow Germany's defeat.  We were united in determination
that Germany must be stripped of her military might and be given no opportunity within the
foreseeable future to regain that might.

The United Nations have no intention to enslave the German people. We wish them to have a normal
chance to develop, in peace, as useful and respectable members of the European family.  But
we most certainly emphasize that word "respectable"--for we intend to rid them once and for
all of Nazism and Prussian militarism and the fantastic and disastrous notion that they constitute
the "Master Race."

We did discuss international relationships from the point of view of big, broad objectives,
rather than details.  But on the basis of what we did discuss, I can say even today that I
do not think any insoluble differences will arise among Russia, Great Britain and the United
States.

In these conferences we were concerned with basic principles-- principles which involve the
security and the welfare and the standard of living or human beings in countries large and small.

To use an American and somewhat ungrammatical colloquialism, I may say that I "got along fine"
with Marshal Stalin.  He is a man who combines a tremendous, relentless determination with
a stalwart good humor.  I believe he is truly representative of the heart and soul of Russia;
and I believe that we are going to get along very well with him and the Russian people--very
well indeed.

Britain, Russia, China and the United States and their Allies represent more than three-quarters
of the total population of the earth.  As long as these four nations with great military power
stick together in determination to keep the peace there will be no possibility of an aggressor
nation arising to start another world war.

But those four powers must be united with and cooperate with all the freedom-loving peoples
of Europe, and Asia, and Africa and the Americas.  The rights of every nation, large or small,
must be respected and guarded as jealously as are the rights of every individual within our
own republic.

The doctrine that the strong shall dominate the weak is the doctrine of our enemies--and we
reject it.

But, at the same time, we are agreed that if force is necessary to keep international peace,
international force will be applied--for as long as it may be necessary.

It has been our steady policy--and it is certainly a common sense policy--that the right of
each nation to freedom must be measured by the willingness of that nation to fight for freedom.
And today we salute our unseen Allies in occupied countries--the underground resistance groups
and the armies of liberation.  They will provide potent forces against our enemies, when the
day of the counter- invasion comes.

Through the development of science the world has become so much smaller that we have had to
discard the geographical yardsticks of the past.  For instance, through our early history the
Atlantic and Pacific Oceans were believed to be walls of safety for the United States.  Time
and distance made it physically possible, for example, for us and for the other American Republics
to obtain and maintain our independence against infinitely stronger powers.  Until recently
very few people, even military experts, thought that the day would ever come when we might
have to defend our Pacific Coast against Japanese threats of invasion.

At the outbreak of the first World War relatively few people thought that our ships and shipping
would be menaced by German submarines on the high seas or that the German militarists would
ever attempt to dominate any nation outside of central Europe.

After the Armistice in 1918, we thought and hoped that the militaristic philosophy of Germany
had been crushed; and being full of the milk of human kindness we spent the next twenty years
disarming, while the Germans whined so pathetically that the other nations permitted them--and
even helped them--to rearm.

For too many years we lived on pious hopes that aggressor and warlike nations would learn and
understand and carry out the doctrine of purely voluntary peace.

The well-intentioned but ill-fated experiments of former years did not work.  It is my hope
that we will not try them again.  No--that is putting it too weakly--it is my intention to
do all that I humanly can as President and Commander-in-Chief to see to it that these tragic
mistakes shall not be made again.

There have always been cheerful idiots in this country who believed that there would be no
more war for us, if everybody in America would only return into their homes and lock their
front doors behind them.  Assuming that their motives were of the highest, events have shown
how unwilling they were to face the facts.

The overwhelming majority of all the people in the world want peace.  Most of them are fighting
for the attainment of peace--not just a truce, not just an armistice--but peace that is as
strongly enforced and as durable as mortal man can make it.  If we are willing to fight for
peace now, is it not good logic that we should use force if necessary, in the future, to keep
the peace?

I believe, and I think I can say, that the other three great nations who are fighting so magnificently
to gain peace are in complete agreement that we must be prepared to keep the peace by force.
If the people of Germany and Japan are made to realize thoroughly that the world is not going
to let them break out again, it is possible, and, I hope, probable, that they will abandon
the philosophy of aggression--the belief that they can gain the whole world even at the risk
of losing their own souls.

I shall have more to say about the Cairo and Teheran conferences when I make my report to the
Congress in about two weeks' time. And, on that occasion, I shall also have a great deal to
say about certain conditions here at home.

But today I wish to say that in all my travels, at home and abroad, it is the sight of our
soldiers and sailors and their magnificent achievements which have given me the greatest inspiration
and the greatest encouragement for the future.

To the members of our armed forces, to their wives, mothers and fathers, I want to affirm the
great faith and confidence that we have in General Marshall and in Admiral King who direct
all of our armed might throughout the world.  Upon them falls the great responsibility of planning
the strategy of determining where and when we shall fight.  Both of these men have already
gained high places in American history, places which will record in that history many evidences
of their military genius that cannot be published today.

Some of our men overseas are now spending their third Christmas far from home.  To them and
to all others overseas or soon to go overseas, I can give assurance that it is the purpose
of their government to win this war and to bring them home at the earliest possible time.

We here in the United States had better be sure that when our soldiers and sailors do come
home they will find an America in which they are given full opportunities for education, and
rehabilitation, social security, and employment and business enterprise under the free American
system--and that they will find a government which, by their votes as American citizens, they
have had a full share in electing.

The American people have had every reason to know that this is a tough and destructive war.
On my trip abroad, I talked with many military men who had faced our enemies in the field.
These hard- headed realists testify to the strength and skill and resourcefulness of the enemy
generals and men whom we must beat before final victory is won.  The war is now reaching the
stage where we shall all have to look forward to large casualty lists-- dead, wounded and missing.

War entails just that.  There is no easy road to victory.  And the end is not yet in sight.

I have been back only for a week.  It is fair that I should tell you my impression.  I think
I see a tendency in some of our people here to assume a quick ending of the war--that we have
already gained the victory.  And, perhaps as a result of this false reasoning, I think I discern
an effort to resume or even encourage an outbreak of partisan thinking and talking.  I hope
I am wrong.  For, surely, our first and most foremost tasks are all concerned with winning
the war and winning a just peace that will last for generations.

The massive offensives which are in the making both in Europe and the Far East--will require
every ounce of energy and fortitude that we and our Allies can summon on the fighting fronts
and in all the workshops at home.  As I have said before, you cannot order up a great attack
on a Monday and demand that it be delivered on Saturday.

Less than a month ago I flew in a big Army transport plane over the little town of Bethlehem,
in Palestine.

Tonight, on Christmas Eve, all men and women everywhere who love Christmas are thinking of
that ancient town and of the star of faith that shone there more than nineteen centuries ago.

American boys are fighting today in snow-covered mountains, in malarial jungles, on blazing
deserts; they are fighting on the far stretches of the sea and above the clouds, and fighting
for the thing for which they struggle.  I think it is best symbolized by the message that came
out of Bethlehem.

On behalf of the American people--your own people--I send this Christmas message to you, to
you who are in our armed forces:

In our hearts are prayers for you and for all your comrades in arms who fight to rid the world
of evil.

We ask God's blessing upon you--upon your fathers, mothers, wives and children--all your loved
ones at home.

We ask that the comfort of God's grace shall be granted to those who are sick and wounded,
and to those who are prisoners of war in the hands of the enemy, waiting for the day when they
will again be free.

And we ask that God receive and cherish those who have given their lives, and that He keep
them in honor and in the grateful memory of their countrymen forever.

God bless all of you who fight our battles on this Christmas Eve.

God bless us all.  Keep us strong in our faith that we fight for a better day for humankind--here
and everywhere.

June 5, 1944.

My Friends:

Yesterday, on June fourth, 1944, Rome fell to American and Allied troops.  The first of the
Axis capitals is now in our hands.  One up and two to go!

It is perhaps significant that the first of these capitals to fall should have the longest
history of all of them.  The story of Rome goes back to the time of the foundations of our
civilization.  We can still see there monuments of the time when Rome and the Romans controlled
the whole of the then known world.  That, too, is significant, for the United Nations are determined
that in the future no one city and no one race will be able to control the whole of the world.

In addition to the monuments of the older times, we also see in Rome the great symbol of Christianity,
which has reached into almost every part of the world.  There are other shrines and other churches
in many places, but the churches and shrines of Rome are visible symbols of the faith and determination
of the early saints and martyrs that Christianity should live and become universal.  And tonight
it will be a source of deep satisfaction that the freedom of the Pope and the Vatican City
is assured by the armies of the United Nations.

It is also significant that Rome has been liberated by the armed forces of many nations.  The
American and British armies--who bore the chief burdens of battle--found at their sides our
own North American neighbors, the gallant Canadians.  The fighting New Zealanders from the
far South Pacific, the courageous French and the French Moroccans, the South Africans, the
Poles and the East Indians--all of them fought with us on the bloody approaches to the city
of Rome.

The Italians, too, forswearing a partnership in the Axis which they never desired, have sent
their troops to join us in our battles against the German trespassers on their soil.

The prospect of the liberation of Rome meant enough to Hitler and his generals to induce them
to fight desperately at great cost of men and materials and with great sacrifice to their crumbling
Eastern line and to their Western front.  No thanks are due to them if Rome was spared the
devastation which the Germans wreaked on Naples and other Italian cities.  The Allied general
maneuvered so skillfully that the Nazis could only have stayed long enough to damage Rome at
the risk of losing their armies.

But Rome is of course more than a military objective.

Ever since before the days of the Caesars, Rome has stood as a symbol of authority.  Rome was
the Republic.  Rome was the Empire. Rome was and is in a sense the Catholic Church, and Rome
was the capital of a United Italy.  Later, unfortunately, a quarter of a century ago, Rome
became the seat of Fascism--one of the three capitals of the Axis.

For this quarter century the Italian people were enslaved.  They were degraded by the rule
of Mussolini from Rome.  They will mark its liberation with deep emotion.  In the north of
Italy, the people are still dominated and threatened by the Nazi overlords and their Fascist
puppets.

Our victory comes at an excellent time, while our Allied forces are poised for another strike
at western Europe--and while the armies of other Nazi soldiers nervously await our assault.
And in the meantime our gallant Russian Allies continue to make their power felt more and more.

From a strictly military standpoint, we had long ago accomplished certain of the main objectives
of our Italian campaign--the control of the islands--the major islands--the control of the
sea lanes of the Mediterranean to shorten our combat and supply lines, and the capture of the
airports, such as the great airports of Foggia, south of Rome, from which we have struck telling
blows on the continent--the whole of the continent all the way up to the Russian front.

It would be unwise to inflate in our own minds the military importance of the capture of Rome.
We shall have to push through a long period of greater effort and fiercer fighting before we
get into Germany itself.  The Germans have retreated thousands of miles, all the way from the
gates of Cairo, through Libya and Tunisia and Sicily and Southern Italy.  They have suffered
heavy losses, but not great enough yet to cause collapse.

Germany has not yet been driven to surrender.  Germany has not yet been driven to the point
where she will be unable to recommence world conquest a generation hence.

Therefore, the victory still lies some distance ahead.  That distance will be covered in due
time--have no fear of that.  But it will be tough and it will be costly, as I have told you
many, many times.

In Italy the people had lived so long under the corrupt rule of Mussolini that, in spite of
the tinsel at the top--you have seen the pictures of him--their economic condition had grown
steadily worse.  Our troops have found starvation, malnutrition, disease, a deteriorating education
and lowered public health--all by-products of the Fascist misrule.

The task of the Allies in occupation has been stupendous.  We have had to start at the very
bottom, assisting local governments to reform on democratic lines.  We have had to give them
bread to replace that which was stolen out of their mouths by the Germans. We have had to make
it possible for the Italians to raise and use their own local crops.  We have to help them
cleanse their schools of Fascist trappings.

I think the American people as a whole approve the salvage of these human beings, who are only
now learning to walk in a new atmosphere of freedom.

Some of us may let our thoughts run to the financial cost of it. Essentially it is what we
can call a form of relief.  And at the same time, we hope that this relief will be an investment
for the future--an investment that will pay dividends by eliminating Fascism, by ending any
Italian desires to start another war of aggression in the future.  And that means that they
are dividends which justify such an investment, because they are additional supports for world
peace.

The Italian people are capable of self-government.  We do not lose sight of their virtues as
a peace-loving nation.

We remember the many centuries in which the Italians were leaders in the arts and sciences,
enriching the lives of all mankind.

We remember the great sons of the Italian people--Galileo and Marconi, Michelangelo and Dante--and
incidentally that fearless discoverer who typifies the courage of Italy--Christopher Columbus.

Italy cannot grow in stature by seeking to build up a great militaristic empire.  Italians
have been overcrowded within their own territories, but they do not need to try to conquer
the lands of other peoples in order to find the breath of life.  Other peoples may not want
to be conquered.

