But he went to the barrier surrounding the arena, and blessed them with the sign of the cross.

Crispus stretched out his arm as if to thunder at him; but when he saw the man's face, he dropped
his arm, the knees bent under him, and his lips whispered, "Paul the Apostle!"

To the great astonishment of the servants of the Circus, all of those who were not nailed to
the crosses yet knelt down. Paul turned to Crispus and said,

"Threaten them not, Crispus, for this day they will be with thee in paradise. It is thy thought
that they may be condemned. But who will condemn?

"Will God, who gave His Son for them? Will Christ, who died for their salvation, condemn when
they die for His name? And how is it possible that He who loves can condemn? Who will accuse
the chosen of God? Who will say of this blood, 'It is cursed'?"

"I have hated evil," said the old priest.

"Christ's command to love men was higher than that to hate evil, for His religion is not hatred,
but love."

"I have sinned in the hour of death," answered Crispus, beating his breast. The manager of
the seats approached the Apostle, and inquired,

"Who art thou, speaking to the condemned?"

"A Roman citizen," answered Paul, calmly. Then, turning to Crispus, he said: "Be confident,
for to-day is a day of grace; die in peace, O servant of God."

The black men approached Crispus at that moment to place him on the cross; but he looked around
once again, and cried,--

"My brethren, pray for me!"

His face had lost its usual sternness; his stony features had taken an expression of peace
and sweetness. He stretched his arms himself along the arms of the cross, to make the work
easier, and, looking directly into heaven, began to pray earnestly. He seemed to feel nothing;
for when the nails entered his hands, not the least quiver shook his body, nor on his face
did there appear any wrinkle of pain. He prayed when they raised the cross and trampled the
earth around it. Only when crowds began to fill the amphitheatre with shouts and laughter did
his brows frown somewhat, as if in anger that a pagan people were disturbing the calm and peace
of a sweet death.

But all the crosses had been raised, so that in the arena there stood as it were a forest,
with people hanging on the trees. On the arms of the crosses and on the heads of the martyrs
fell the gleam of the sun; but on the arena was a deep shadow, forming a kind of black involved
grating through which glittered the golden sand. That was a spectacle in which the whole delight
of the audience consisted in looking at a lingering death. Never before had men seen such a
density of crosses. The arena was packed so closely that the servants squeezed between them
only with effort. On the edges were women especially; but Crispus, as a leader, was raised
almost in front of Cæsar's podium, on an immense cross, wreathed below with honeysuckle. None
of the victims had died yet, but some of those fastened earlier had fainted. No one groaned;
no one called for mercy. Some were hanging with head inclined on one arm, or dropped on the
breast, as if seized by sleep; some were as if in meditation; some, looking toward heaven,
were moving their lips quietly. In this terrible forest of crosses, among those crucified bodies,
in that silence of victims there was something ominous. The people who, filled by the feast
and gladsome, had returned to the Circus with shouts, became silent, not knowing on which body
to rest their eyes, or what to think of the spectacle. The nakedness of strained female forms
roused no feeling. They did not make the usual bets as to who would die first,--a thing done
generally when there was even the smallest number of criminals on the arena. It seemed that
Cæsar himself was bored, for he turned lazily and with drowsy expression to arrange his necklace.

At that moment Crispus, who was hanging opposite, and who, like a man in a faint or dying,
had kept his eyes closed, opened them and looked at Cæsar. His face assumed an expression so
pitiless, and his eyes flashed with such fire, that the Augustians whispered to one another,
pointing at him with their fingers, and at last Cæsar himself turned to that cross, and placed
the emerald to his eye sluggishly.

Perfect silence followed. The eyes of the spectators were fixed on Crispus, who strove to move
his right hand, as if to tear it from the tree.

After a while his breast rose, his ribs were visible, and he cried: "Matricide! woe to thee!"

The Augustians, hearing this mortal insult flung at the lord of the world in presence of thousands,
did not dare to breathe. Chilo was half dead. Cæsar trembled, and dropped the emerald from
his fingers. The people, too, held the breath in their breasts. The voice of Crispus was heard,
as it rose in power, throughout the amphitheatre,--

"Woe to thee, murderer of wife and brother! woe to thee, Antichrist. The abyss is opening beneath
thee, death is stretching its hands to thee, the grave is waiting for thee. Woe, living corpse,
for in terror shalt thou die and be damned to eternity!"

Unable to tear his hand from the cross, Crispus strained awfully. He was terrible,--a living
skeleton; unbending as predestination, he shook his white beard over Nero's podium, scattering,
as he nodded, rose leaves from the garland on his head.

"Woe to thee, murderer! Thy measure is surpassed, and thy hour is at hand!"

Here he made one more effort. It seemed for a moment that he would free his hand from the cross
and hold it in menace above Cæsar; but all at once his emaciated arms extended still more,
his body settled down, his head fell on his breast, and he died.

In that forest of crosses the weakest began also the sleep of eternity.

Chapter LVIII

"LORD," said Chilo, "the sea is like olive oil, the waves seem to sleep. Let us go to Achæa.
There the glory of Apollo is awaiting thee, crowns and triumph are awaiting thee, the people
will deify thee, the gods will receive thee as a guest, their own equal; but here, O lord--"

And he stopped, for his lower lip began to quiver so violently that his words passed into meaningless
sounds.

"We will go when the games are over," replied Nero. "I know that even now some call the Christians
innoxia corpora. If I were to go, all would repeat this. What dost thou fear?"

Then he frowned, but looked with inquiring glance at Chilo, as if expecting an answer, for
he only feigned cool blood. At the last exhibition he himself feared the words of Crispus;
and when he had returned to the Palatine, he could not sleep from rage and shame, but also
from fear.

Then Vestinius, who heard their conversation in silence, looked around, and said in a mysterious
voice,--

"Listen, lord, to this old man. There is something strange in those Christians. Their deity
gives them an easy death, but he may be vengeful."

"It was not I who arranged the games, but Tigellinus," replied Nero, quickly.

"True! it was I," added Tigellinus, who heard Cæsar's answer, "and I jeer at all Christian
gods. Vestinius is a bladder full of prejudices, and this valiant Greek is ready to die of
terror at sight of a hen with feathers up in defence of her chickens."

"True!" said Nero; "but henceforth give command to cut the tongues out of Christians and stop
their mouths."

"Fire will stop them, O divinity."

"Woe is me!" groaned Chilo.

But Cæsar, to whom the insolent confidence of Tigellinus gave courage, began to laugh, and
said, pointing to the old Greek,--

"See how the descendant of Achilles looks!"

Indeed Chilo looked terribly. The remnant of hair on his head had grown white; on his face
was fixed an expression of some immense dread, alarm, and oppression. He seemed at times, too,
as if stunned and only half conscious. Often he gave no answer to questions; then again he
fell into anger, and became so insolent that the Augustians preferred not to attack him. Such
a moment had come to him then.

"Do what ye like with me, but I will not go to the games!" cried he, in desperation.

Nero looked at him for a while, and, turning to Tigellinus, said,--

"Have a care that this Stoic is near me in the gardens. I want to see what impression our torches
will make on him."

Chilo was afraid of the threat which quivered in Cæsar's voice. "O lord," said he, "I shall
see nothing, for I cannot see in the night-time."

"The night will be as bright as day," replied Cæsar, with a threatening laugh.

Turning then to the Augustians, Nero talked about races which he intended to have when the
games were over.

Petronius approached Chilo, and asked, pushing him on the shoulder,--

"Have I not said that thou wouldst not hold out?"

"I wish to drink," said Chilo, stretching his trembling hand toward a goblet of wine; but he
was unable to raise it to his lips. Seeing this, Vestinius took the vessel; but later he drew
near, and inquired with curious and frightened face,--

"Are the Furies pursuing thee?"

The old man looked at him a certain time with open lips, as if not understanding what he said.
But Vestinius repeated,

"Are the Furies pursuing thee?"

"No," answered Chilo; "but night is before me."

"How, night? May the gods have mercy on thee. How night?"

"Night, ghastly and impenetrable, in which something is moving, something coming toward me;
but I know not what it is, and I am terrified."

"I have always been sure that there are witches. Dost thou not dream of something?"

"No, for I do not sleep. I did not think that they would be punished thus."

"Art thou sorry for them?"

"Why do ye shed so much blood? Hast heard what that one said from the cross? Woe to us!"

"I heard," answered Vestinius, in a low voice. "But they are incendiaries."

"Not true!"

"And enemies of the human race."

"Not true!"

"And poisoners of water."

"Not true!"

"And murderers of children."

"Not true!"

"How?" inquired Vestinius, with astonishment. "Thou hast said so thyself, and given them into
the hands of Tigellinus."

"Therefore night has surrounded me, and death is coming toward me. At times it seems to me
that I am dead already, and ye also."

"No! it is they who are dying; we are alive. But tell me, what do they see when they are dying?"

"Christ."

"That is their god. Is he a mighty god?"

But Chilo answered with a question,--

"What kind of torches are to burn in the gardens? Hast thou heard what Cæsar said?"

"I heard, and I know. Those torches are called Sarmentitii and Semaxii. They are made by arraying
men in painful tunics, steeped in pitch, and binding them to pillars, to which fire is set
afterward. May their god not send misfortune on the city. Semaxii! that is a dreadful punishment!"

"I would rather see it, for there will not be blood," answered Chilo. "Command a slave to hold
the goblet to my mouth. I wish to drink, but I spill the wine; my hand trembles from age."

Others also were speaking of the Christians. Old Domitius Afer reviled them.

"There is such a multitude of them," said he, "that they might raise a civil war; and, remember,
there were fears lest they might arm. But they die like sheep."

"Let them try to die otherwise!" said Tigellinus.

To this Petronius answered, "Ye deceive yourselves. They are arming."

"With what?"

"With patience."

"That is a new kind of weapon."

"True. But can ye say that they die like common criminals? No! They die as if the criminals
were those who condemned them to death,--that is, we and the whole Roman people."

"What raving!" said Tigellinus.

"Hic Abdera!" answered Petronius.

[A proverbial expression meaning "The dullest of the dull"--Note by the Author.]

But others, struck by the justice of his remark, began to look at one another with astonishment,
and repeat,--

"True! there is something peculiar and strange in their death."

"I tell you that they see their divinity!" cried Vestinius, from one side. Thereupon a number
of Augustians turned to Chilo,--

"Hai, old man, thou knowest them well; tell us what they see."

The Greek spat out wine on his tunic, and answered,--

"The resurrection." And he began to tremble so that the guests sitting nearer burst into loud
laughter.

Chapter LIX

FOR some time Vinicius had spent his nights away from home. It occurred to Petronius that perhaps
he had formed a new plan, and was working to liberate Lygia from the Esquiline dungeon; he
did not wish, however, to inquire about anything, lest he might bring misfortune to the work.
This sceptical exquisite had become in a certain sense superstitious. He had failed to snatch
Lygia from the Mamertine prison, hence had ceased to believe in his own star.

Besides, he did not count this time on a favorable outcome for the efforts of Vinicius. The
Esquiline prison, formed in a hurry from the cellars of houses thrown down to stop the fire,
was not, it is true, so terrible as the old Tullianum near the Capitol, but it was a hundred
times better guarded. Petronius understood perfectly that Lygia had been taken there only to
escape death and not escape the amphitheatre. He could understand at once that for this very
reason they were guarding her as a man guards the eye in his head.

"Evidently," said he to himself, "Cæsar and Tigellinus have reserved her for some special spectacle,
more dreadful than all others, and Vinicius is more likely to perish than rescue her."

Vinicius, too, had lost hope of being able to free Lygia. Christ alone could do that. The young
tribune now thought only of seeing her in prison.

For some time the knowledge that Nazarius had penetrated the Mamertine prison as a corpse-bearer
had given him no peace; hence he resolved to try that method also.

The overseer of the "Putrid Pits," who had been bribed for an immense sum of money, admitted
him at last among servants whom he sent nightly to prisons for corpses. The danger that Vinicius
might be recognized was really small. He was preserved from it by night, the dress of a slave,
and the defective illumination of the prison. Besides, into whose head could it enter that
a patrician, the grandson of one consul, the son of another, could be found among servants,
corpse-bearers, exposed to the miasma of prisons and the "Putrid Pits"? And he began work to
which men were forced only by slavery or the direst need.

When the desired evening came, he girded his loins gladly, covered his head with a cloth steeped
in turpentine, and with throbbing heart betook himself, with a crowd of others, to the Esquiline.

The pretorian guards made no trouble, for all had brought proper tesseræ, which the centurion
examined by the light of a lantern. After a while the great iron doors opened before them,
and they entered.

Vinicius saw an extensive vaulted cellar, from which they passed to a series of others. Dim
tapers illuminated the interior of each, which was filled with people. Some of these were lying
at the walls sunk in sleep, or dead, perhaps. Others surrounded large vessels of water, standing
in the middle, out of which they drank as people tormented with fever; others were sitting
on the grounds, their elbows on their knees, their heads on their palms; here and there children
were sleeping, nestled up to their mothers. Groans, loud hurried breathing of the sick, weeping,
whispered prayers, hymns in an undertone, the curses of overseers were heard round about it.
In this dungeon was the odor of crowds and corpses. In its gloomy depth dark figures were swarming;
nearer, close to flickering lights, were visible faces, pale, terrified, hungry, and cadaverous,
with eyes dim, or else flaming with fever, with lips blue, with streams of sweat on their foreheads,
and with clammy hair. In corners the sick were moaning loudly; some begged for water; others,
to be led to death. And still that prison was less terrible than the old Tullianum. The legs
bent under Vinicius when he saw all this, and breath was failing in his breast. At the thought
that Lygia was in the midst of this misery and misfortune, the hair rose on his head, and he
stifled a cry of despair. The amphitheatre, the teeth of wild beasts, the cross,--anything
was better than those dreadful dungeons filled with the odor of corpses, places in which imploring
voices called from every corner,--

"Lead us to death!"

Vinicius pressed his nails into his palms, for he felt that he was growing weak, and that presence
of mind was deserting him. All that he had felt till then, all his love and pain, changed in
him to one desire for death.

Just then near his side was heard the overseer of the "Putrid Pits",

"How many corpses have ye to-day?"

"About a dozen," answered the guardian of the prison, "but there will be more before morning;
some are in agony at the walls."

And he fell to complaining of women who concealed dead children so as to keep them near and
not yield them to the "Putrid Pits." "We must discover corpses first by the odor; through this
the air, so terrible already, is spoiled still more. I would rather be a slave in some rural
prison than guard these dogs rotting here while alive--"

The overseer of the pits comforted him, saying that his own service was no easier. By this
time the sense of reality had returned to Vinicius. He began to search the dungeon; but sought
in vain for Lygia, fearing meanwhile that he would never see her alive. A number of cellars
were connected by newly made passages; the corpse-bearers entered only those from which corpses
were to be carried. Fear seized Vinicius lest that privilege which had cost so much trouble
might serve no purpose. Luckily his patron aided him.

"Infection spreads most through corpses," said he. "Ye must carry out the bodies at once, or
die yourselves, together with the prisoners."

"There are only ten of us for all the cellars," said the guardian, "and we must sleep."

"I will leave four men of mine, who will go through the cellars at night to see if these are dead."

"We will drink to-morrow if thou do that. Everybody must be taken to the test; for an order
has come to pierce the neck of each corpse, and then to the 'Putrid Pits' at once with it."

"Very well, but we will drink," said the overseer.

Four men were selected, and among them Vinicius; the others he took to put the corpses on the
biers.

Vinicius was at rest; he was certain now at least of finding Lygia. The young tribune began
by examining the first dungeon carefully; he looked into all the dark corners hardly reached
by the light of his torch; he examined figures sleeping at the walls under coarse cloths; he
saw that the most grievously ill were drawn into a corner apart. But Lygia he found in no place.
In a second and third dungeon his search was equally fruitless.

Meanwhile the hour had grown late; all corpses had been carried out. The guards, disposing
themselves in the corridors between cellars, were asleep; the children, wearied with crying,
were silent; nothing was heard save the breathing of troubled breasts, and here and there the
murmur of prayer.

Vinicius went with his torch to the fourth dungeon, which was considerably smaller. Raising
the light, he began to examine it, and trembled all at once, for it seemed to him that he saw,
near a latticed opening in the wall, the gigantic form of Ursus. Then, blowing out the light,
he approached him, and asked,

"Ursus, art thou here?"

"Who art thou?" asked the giant, turning his head.

"Dost not know me?"

"Thou hast quenched the torch; how could I know thee?"

But at that moment Vinicius saw Lygia lying on a cloak near the wall; so, without speaking
further, he knelt near her. Ursus recognized him, and said,--

"Praise be to Christ! but do not wake her, lord."

Vinicius, kneeling down, gazed at her through his tears. In spite of the darkness he could
distinguish her face, which seemed to him as pale as alabaster, and her emaciated arms. At
that sight he was seized by a love which was like a rending pain, a love which shook his soul
to its uttermost depth, and which at the same time was so full of pity, respect, and homage
that he fell on his face, and pressed to his lips the hem of the cloak on which rested that
head dearer to him than all else on earth.

Ursus looked at Vinicius for a long time in silence, but at last he pulled his tunic.

"Lord," asked he, "how didst thou come, and hast thou come here to save her?"

Vinicius rose, and struggled for a time with his emotion. "Show me the means," replied he.

"I thought that thou wouldst find them, lord. Only one method came to my head--"

Here he turned toward the grating in the wall, as if in answer to himself, and said,--

"In that way--but there are soldiers outside--"

"A hundred pretorians."

"Then we cannot pass?"

"No!"

The Lygian rubbed his forehead, and asked again,--

"How didst thou enter?"

"I have a tessera from the overseer of the 'Putrid Pits.'" Then Vinicius stopped suddenly,
as if some idea had flashed through his head.

"By the Passion of the Redeemer," said he, in a hurried voice, "I will stay here. Let her take
my tessera; she can wrap her head in a cloth, cover her shoulders with a mantle, and pass out.
Among the slaves who carry out corpses there are several youths not full grown; hence the pretorians
will not notice her, and once at the house of Petronius she is safe."

But the Lygian dropped his head on his breast, and said,--"She would not consent, for she loves
thee; besides, she is sick, and unable to stand alone. If thou and the noble Petronius cannot
save her from prison, who can?" said he, after a while.

"Christ alone."

Then both were silent.

"Christ could save all Christians," thought the Lygian, in his simple heart; "but since He
does not save them, it is clear that the hour of torture and death has come."

He accepted it for himself, but was grieved to the depth of his soul for that child who had
grown up in his arms, and whom he loved beyond life.

Vinicius knelt again near Lygia. Through the grating in the wall moonbeams came in, and gave
better light than the one candle burning yet over the entrance. Lygia opened her eyes now,
and said, placing her feverish hand on the arm of Vinicius,

"I see thee; I knew that thou wouldst come."

He seized her hands, pressed them to his forehead and his heart, raised her somewhat, and held
her to his breast.

"I have come, dearest. May Christ guard and free thee, beloved Lygia!" He could say no more,
for the heart began to whine in his breast from pain and love, and he would not show pain in
her presence.

"I am sick, Marcus," said Lygia, "and I must die either on the arena or here in prison--I have
prayed to see thee before death; thou hast come,--Christ has heard me."--

Unable to utter a word yet, he pressed her to his bosom, and she continued,--

"I saw thee through the window in the Tullianum. I saw that thou hadst the wish to come to
me. Now the Redeemer has given me a moment of consciousness, so that we may take farewell of
each other. I am going to Him, Marcus, but I love thee, and shall love always."

Vinicius conquered himself; he stifled his pain and began to speak in a voice which he tried
to make calm,--

"No, dear Lygia, thou wilt not die. The Apostle commanded me to believe, and he promised to
pray for thee; he knew Christ,--Christ loved him and will not refuse him. Hadst thou to die,
Peter would not have commanded me to be confident; but he said, 'Have confidence!'--No, Lygia!
Christ will have mercy. He does not wish thy death. He will not permit it. I Swear to thee
by the name of the Redeemer that Peter is praying for thee."

Silence followed. The one candle hanging above the entrance went out, but moonlight entered
through the whole opening. In the opposite corner of the cellar a child whined and was silent.
From outside came the voices of pretorians, who, after watching their turn out, were playing
under the wall at scriptoe duodecim.

"O Marcus," said Lygia, "Christ Himself called to the Father, 'Remove this bitter cup from
Me'; still He drank it. Christ Himself died on the cross, and thousands are perishing for His
sake. Why, then, should He spare me alone? Who am I, Marcus? I have heard Peter say that he
too would die in torture. Who am I, compared with Peter? When the pretorians came to us, I
dreaded death and torture, but I dread them no longer. See what a terrible prison this is,
but I am going to heaven. Think of it: Cæsar is here, but there the Redeemer, kind and merciful.
And there is no death there. Thou lovest me; think, then, how happy I shall be. Oh, dear Marcus,
think that thou wilt come to me there."

Here she stopped to get breath in her sick breast, and then raised his hand to her lips,--

"Marcus?"

"What, dear one?"

"Do not weep for me, and remember this,--thou wilt come to me. I have lived a short time, but
God gave thy soul to me; hence I shall tell Christ that though I died, and thou wert looking
at my death, though thou wert left in grief, thou didst not blaspheme against His will, and
that thou lovest Him always. Thou wilt love Him, and endure my death patiently? For then He
will unite us. I love thee and I wish to be with thee."

Breath failed her then, and in a barely audible voice she finished,

"Promise me this, Marcus!"

Vinicius embraced her with trembling arms, and said,

"By thy sacred head! I promise."

Her pale face became radiant in the sad light of the moon, and once more she raised his hand
to her lips, and whispered,--

"I am thy wife!"

Beyond the wall the pretorians playing scriptoe duodecim raised a louder dispute; but Vinicius
and Lygia forgot the prison, the guards, the world, and, feeling within them the souls of angels,
they began to pray.

Chapter LX

FOR three days, or rather three nights, nothing disturbed their peace. When the usual prison
work was finished, which consisted in separating the dead from the living and the grievously
sick from those in better health, when the wearied guards had lain down to sleep in the corridors,
Vinicius entered Lygia's dungeon and remained there till daylight. She put her head on his
breast, and they talked in low voices of love and of death. In thought and speech, in desires
and hopes even, both were removed unconsciously more and more from life, and they lost the
sense of it. Both were like people who, having sailed from land in a ship, saw the shore no
more, and were sinking gradually into infinity. Both changed by degrees into sad souls in love
with each other and with Christ, and ready to fly away. Only at times did pain start up in
the heart of Vinicius like a whirlwind, at times there flashed in him like lightning, hope,
born of love and faith in the crucified God; but he tore himself away more and more each day
from the earth, and yielded to death. In the morning, when he went from the prison, he looked
on the world, on the city, on acquaintances, on vital interests, as through a dream. Everything
seemed to him strange, distant, vain, fleeting. Even torture ceased to terrify, since one might
pass through it while sunk in thought and with eyes fixed on another thing. It seemed to both
that eternity had begun to receive them. They conversed of how they would love and live together,
but beyond the grave; and if their thoughts returned to the earth at intervals, these were
thoughts of people who, setting out on a long journey, speak of preparations for the road.
Moreover they were surrounded by such silence as in some desert surrounds two columns far away
and forgotten. Their only care was that Christ should not separate them; and as each moment
strengthened their conviction that He would not, they loved Him as a link uniting them in endless
happiness and peace. While still on earth, the dust of earth fell from them. The soul of each
was as pure as a tear. Under terror of death, amid misery and suffering, in that prison den,
heaven had begun, for she had taken him by the hand, and, as if saved and a saint, had led
him to the source of endless life.

Petronius was astonished at seeing in the face of Vinicius increasing peace and a certain wonderful
serenity which he had not noted before. At times even he supposed that Vinicius had found some
mode of rescue, and he was piqued because his nephew had not confided his hopes to him. At
last, unable to restrain himself, he said,--

"Now thou hast another look; do not keep from me secrets, for I wish and am able to aid thee.
Hast thou arranged anything?"

"I have," said Vinicius; "but thou canst not help me. After her death I will confess that I
am a Christian and follow her."

"Then thou hast no hope?"

"On the contrary, I have. Christ will give her to me, and I shall never be separated from her."

Petronius began to walk in the atrium; disillusion and impatience were evident on his face.

"Thy Christ is not needed for this,--our Thanatos [death] can render the same service."

Vinicius smiled sadly, and said,--"No, my dear, thou art unwilling to understand."

"I am unwilling and unable. It is not the time for discussion, but remember what I said when
we failed to free her from the Tullianum. I lost all hope, and on the way home thou didst say,
'But I believe that Christ can restore her to me.' Let Him restore her. If I throw a costly
goblet into the sea, no god of ours can give it back to me; if yours is no better, I know not
why I should honor Him beyond the old ones."

"But He will restore her to me."

Pettonius shrugged his shoulders. "Dost know," inquired he, "that Christians are to illuminate
Cæsar's gardens to-morrow?"

"To-morrow?" repeated Vinicius.

And in view of the near and dreadful reality his heart trembled with pain and fear. "This is
the last night, perhaps, which I can pass with Lygia," thought he. So bidding farewell to Petronius,
he went hurriedly to the overseer of the "Putrid Pits" for his tessera. But disappointment
was in waiting,--the overseer would not give the tessera.

"Pardon me," said he, "I have done what I could for thee, but I cannot risk my life. To-night
they are to conduct the Christians to Cæsar's gardens. The prisons will be full of soldiers
and officials. Shouldst thou be recognized, I and my children would be lost."

Vinicius understood that it would be vain to insist. The hope gleamed in him, however, that
the soldiers who had seen him before would admit him even without a tessera; so, with the coming
of night, he disguised himself as usual in the tunic of a corpse-bearer, and, winding a cloth
around his head, betook himself to the prison.

But that day the tesseræ were verified with greater care than usual; and what was more, the
centurion Scevinus, a strict soldier, devoted soul and body to Cæsar, recognized Vinicius.
But evidently in his iron-clad breast there glimmered yet some spark of pity for misfortunes.
Instead of striking his spear in token of alarm, he led Vinicius aside and said,--

"Return to thy house, lord. I recognize thee; but not wishing thy ruin, I am silent. I cannot
admit thee; go thy way, and may the gods send thee solace."

"Thou canst not admit me," said Vinicius, "but let me stand here and look at those who are
led forth."

"My order does not forbid that," said Scevinus.

Vinicius stood before the gate and waited. About midnight the prison gate was opened widely,
and whole ranks of prisoners appeared,--men, women, and children, surrounded by armed pretorians.
The night was very bright; hence it was possible to distinguish not only the forms, but the
faces of the unfortunates. They went two abreast, in a long, gloomy train, amid stillness broken
only by the clatter of weapons. So many were led out that all the dungeons must be empty, as
it seemed. In the rear of the line Vinicius saw Glaucus the physician distinctly, but Lygia
and Ursus were not among the condemned.

Chapter LXI

DARKNESS had not come when the first waves of people began to flow into Cæsar's gardens. The
crowds, in holiday costume, crowned with flowers, joyous, singing, and some of them drunk,
were going to look at the new, magnificent spectacle. Shouts of "Semaxii! Sarmentitii!" were
heard on the Via Tecta, on the bridge of Æmilius, and from the other side of the Tiber, on
the Triumphal Way, around the Circus of Nero, and off towards the Vatican Hill. In Rome people
had been seen burnt on pillars before, but never had any one seen such a number of victims.

Cæsar and Tigellinus, wishing to finish at once with the Christians and also to avoid infection,
which from the prisons was spreading more and more through the city, had given command to empty
all dungeons, so that there remained in them barely a few tens of people intended for the close
of the spectacles. So, when the crowds had passed the gates, they were dumb with amazement.
All the main and side alleys, which lay through dense groves and along lawns, thickets, ponds,
fields, and squares filled with flowers, were packed with pillars smeared with pitch, to which
Christians were fastened. In higher places, where the view was not hindered by trees, one could
see whole rows of pillars and bodies decked with flowers, myrtle, and ivy, extending into the
distance on high and low places, so far that, though the nearest were like masts of ships,
the farthest seemed colored darts, or staffs thrust into the earth. The number of them surpassed
the expectation of the multitude. One might suppose that a whole nation had been lashed to
pillars for Rome's amusement and for Cæsar's. The throng of spectators stopped before single
masts when their curiosity was roused by the form or the sex of the victim; they looked at
the faces, the crowns, the garlands of ivy; then they went farther and farther, asking themselves
with amazement, "Could there have been so many criminals, or how could children barely able
to walk have set fire to Rome?" and astonishment passed by degrees into fear.

Meanwhile darkness came, and the first stars twinkled in the sky. Near each condemned person
a slave took his place, torch in hand; when the sound of trumpets was heard in various parts
of the gardens, in sign that the spectacle was to begin, each slave put his torch to the foot
of a pillar. The straw, hidden under the flowers and steeped in pitch, burned at once with
a bright flame which, increasing every instant, withered the ivy, and rising embraced the feet
of the victims. The people were silent; the gardens resounded with one immense groan and with
cries of pain. Some victims, however, raising their faces toward the starry sky, began to sing,
praising Christ. The people listened. But the hardest hearts were filled with terror when,
on smaller pillars, children cried with shrill voices, "Mamma! Mamma!" A shiver ran through
even spectators who were drunk when they saw little heads and innocent faces distorted with
pain, or children fainting in the smoke which began to stifle them. But the flames rose, and
seized new crowns of roses and ivy every instant. The main and side alleys were illuminated;
the groups of trees, the lawns, and the flowery squares were illuminated; the water in pools
and ponds was gleaming, the trembling leaves on the trees had grown rose-colored, and all was
as visible as in daylight. When the odor of burnt bodies filled the gardens, slaves sprinkled
between the pillars myrrh and aloes prepared purposely. In the crowds were heard here and there
shouts,--whether of sympathy or delight and joy, it was unknown; and they increased every moment
with the fire, which embraced the pillars, climbed to the breasts of the victims, shrivelled
with burning breath the hair on their heads, threw veils over their blackened faces, and then
shot up higher, as if showing the victory and triumph of that power which had given command
to rouse it.

At the very beginning of the spectacle Cæsar had appeared among the people in a magnificent
quadriga of the Circus, drawn by four white steeds. He was dressed as a charioteer in the color
of the Greens,--the court party and his. After him followed other chariots filled with courtiers
in brilliant array, senators, priests, bacchantes, naked and crowned, holding pitchers of wine,
and partly drunk, uttering wild shouts. At the side of these were musicians dressed as fauns
and satyrs, who played on citharas, formingas, flutes, and horns. In other chariots advanced
matrons and maidens of Rome, drunk also and half naked. Around the quadriga ran men who shook
thyrses ornamented with ribbons; others beat drums; others scattered flowers.

All that brilliant throng moved forward, shouting, "Evoe!" on the widest road of the garden,
amidst smoke and processions of people. Cæsar, keeping near him Tigellinus and also Chilo,
in whose terror he sought to find amusement, drove the steeds himself, and, advancing at a
walk, looked at the burning bodies, and heard the shouts of the multitude. Standing on the
lofty gilded chariot, surrounded by a sea of people who bent to his feet, in the glitter of
the fire, in the golden crown of a circus-victor, he was a head above the courtiers and the
crowd. He seemed a giant. His immense arms, stretched forward to hold the reins, seemed to
bless the multitude. There was a smile on his face and in his blinking eyes; he shone above
the throng as a sun or a deity, terrible but commanding and mighty.

At times he stopped to look with more care at some maiden whose bosom had begun to shrink in
the flames, or at the face of a child distorted by convulsions; and again he drove on, leading
behind him a wild, excited retinue. At times he bowed to the people, then again he bent backward,
drew in the golden reins, and spoke to Tigellinus. At last, when he had reached the great fountain
in the middle of two crossing streets, he stepped from the quadriga, and, nodding to his attendants,
mingled with the throng.

He was greeted with shouts and plaudits. The bacchantes, the nymphs, the senators and Augustians,
the priests, the fauns, satyrs, and soldiers surrounded him at once in an excited circle; but
he, with Tigellinus on one side and Chilo on the other, walked around the fountain, about which
were burning some tens of torches; stopping before each one, he made remarks on the victims,
or jeered at the old Greek, on whose face boundless despair was depicted.

At last he stood before a lofty mast decked with myrtle and ivy. The red tongues of fire had
risen only to the knees of the victim; but it was impossible to see his face, for the green
burning twigs had covered it with smoke. After a while, however, the light breeze of night
turned away the smoke and uncovered the head of a man with gray beard falling on his breast.

At sight of him Chilo was twisted into a lump like a wounded snake, and from his mouth came
a cry more like cawing than a human voice.

"Glaucus! Glaucus!"

In fact, Glaucus the physician looked down from the burning pillar at him. Glaucus was alive
yet. His face expressed pain, and was inclined forward, as if to look closely for the last
time at his executioner, at the man who had betrayed him, robbed him of wife and children,
set a murderer on him, and who, when all this had been forgiven in the name of Christ, had
delivered him to executioners. Never had one person inflicted more dreadful or bloody wrongs
on another. Now the victim was burning on the pitched pillar, and the executioner was standing
at his feet. The eyes of Glaucus did nor leave the face of the Greek. At moments they were
hidden by smoke; but when the breeze blew this away, Chilo saw again those eyes fixed on him.
He rose and tried to flee, but had not strength. All at once his legs seemed of lead; an invisible
hand seemed to hold him at that pillar with superhuman force. He was petrified. He felt that
something was overflowing in him, something giving way; he felt that he had had a surfeit of
blood and torture, that the end of his life was approaching, that everything was vanishing,
Cæsar, the court, the multitude, and around him was only a kind of bottomless, dreadful black
vacuum with no visible thing in it, save those eyes of a martyr which were summoning him to
judgment. But Glaucus, bending his head lower down, looked at him fixedly. Those present divined
that something was taking place between those two men. Laughter died on their lips, however,
for in Chilo's face there was something terrible: such pain and fear had distorted it as if
those tongues of fire were burning his body. On a sudden he staggered, and, stretching his
arms upward, cried in a terrible and piercing voice,--

"Glaucus! in Christ's name! forgive me!"

It grew silent round about, a quiver ran through the spectators, and all eyes were raised involuntarily.

The head of the martyr moved slightly, and from the top of the mast was heard a voice like
a groan,--

"I forgive!"

Chilo threw himself on his face, and howled like a wild beast; grasping earth in both hands,
he sprinkled it on his head. Meanwhile the flames shot up, seizing the breast and face of Glaucus;
they unbound the myrtle crown on his head, and seized the ribbons on the top of the pillar,
the whole of which shone with great blazing.

Chilo stood up after a while with face so changed that to the Augustians he seemed another
man. His eyes flashed with a light new to him, ecstasy issued from his wrinkled forehead; the
Greek, incompetent a short time before, looked now like some priest visited by a divinity and
ready to reveal unknown truths.

"What is the matter? Has he gone mad?" asked a number of voices.

But he turned to the multitude, and, raising his right hand, cried, or rather shouted, in a
voice so piercing that not only the Augustians but the multitude heard him,--

"Roman people! I swear by my death, that innocent persons are perishing here. That is the incendiary!"

And he pointed his finger at Nero.

Then came a moment of silence. The courtiers were benumbed. Chilo continued to stand with outstretched,
trembling arm, and with finger pointed at Nero. All at once a tumult arose. The people, like
a wave, urged by a sudden whirlwind, rushed toward the old man to look at him more closely.
Here and there were heard cries, "Hold!" In another place, "Woe to us!" In the throng a hissing
and uproar began. "Ahenobarbus! Matricide! Incendiary!" Disorder increased every instant. The
bacchantes screamed in heaven-piercing voices, and began to hide in the chariots. Then some
pillars which were burned through, fell, scattered sparks, and increased the confusion. A blind
dense wave of people swept away Chilo, and bore him to the depth of the garden.

The pillars began to burn through in every direction and fall across the streets, filling alleys
with smoke, sparks, the odor of burnt wood and burnt flesh. The nearer lights died. The gardens
began to grow dark. The crowds, alarmed, gloomy, and disturbed, pressed toward the gates. News
of what had happened passed from mouth to mouth, distorted and increased. Some said that Cæsar
had fainted; others that he had confessed, saying that he had given command to burn Rome; others
that he had fallen seriously ill; and still others that he had been borne out, as if dead,
in the chariot. Here and there were heard voices of sympathy for the Christians: "If they had
not burned Rome, why so much blood, torture, and injustice? Will not the gods avenge the innocent,
and what piacula can mollify them now?" The words innoxia corpora were repeated oftener and
oftener. Women expressed aloud their pity for children thrown in such numbers to wild beasts,
nailed to crosses or burned in those cursed gardens! And finally pity was turned into abuse
of Cæsar and Tigellinus. There were persons, too, who, stopping suddenly, asked themselves
or others the question, "What kind of divinity is that which gives such strength to meet torture
and death?" And they returned home in meditation.

But Chilo was wandering about in the gardens, not knowing where to go or where to turn. Again
he felt himself a weak, helpless, sick old man.

Now he stumbled against partly burnt bodies; now he struck a torch, which sent a shower of
sparks after him; now he sat down, and looked around with vacant stare. The gardens had become
almost dark. The pale moon moving among the trees shone with uncertain light on the alleys,
the dark pillars lying across them, and the partly burnt victims turned into shapeless lumps.
But the old Greek thought that in the moon he saw the face of Glaucus, whose eyes were looking
at him yet persistently, and he hid before the light. At last he went out of the shadow, in
spite of himself; as if pushed by some hidden power, he turned toward the fountain where Glaucus
had yielded up the spirit.

Then some hand touched his shoulder. He turned, and saw an unknown person before him.

"Who art thou?" exclaimed he, with terror.

"Paul of Tarsus."

"I am accursed!--What dost thou wish?"

"I wish to save thee," answered the Apostle.

Chilo supported himself against a tree. His legs bent under him, and his arms hung parallel
with his body.

"For me there is no salvation," said he, gloomily.

"Hast thou heard how God forgave the thief on the cross who pitied Him?" inquired Paul.

"Dost thou know what I have done?"

"I saw thy suffering, and heard thy testimony to the truth."

"O Lord!"

"And if a servant of Christ forgave thee in the hour of torture and death, why should Christ
not forgive thee?"

Chilo seized his head with both hands, as if in bewilderment.

"Forgiveness! for me, forgiveness!"

"Our God is a God of mercy," said Paul.

"For me?" repeated Chilo; and he began to groan like a man who lacks strength to control his
pain and suffering.

"Lean on me," said Paul, "and go with me."

And taking him he went to the crossing of the streets, guided by the voice of the fountain,
which seemed to weep in the night stillness over the bodies of those who had died in torture.

"Our God is a God of mercy," repeated the Apostle. "Wert thou to stand at the sea and cast
in pebbles, couldst thou fill its depth with them? I tell thee that the mercy of Christ is
as the sea, and that the sins and faults of men sink in it as pebbles in the abyss; I tell
thee that it is like the sky which covers mountains, lands, and seas, for it is everywhere
and has neither end nor limit. Thou hast suffered at the pillar of Glaucus. Christ saw thy
suffering. Without reference to what may meet thee to-morrow, thou didst say, 'That is the
incendiary,' and Christ remembers thy words. Thy malice and falsehood are gone; in thy heart
is left only boundless sorrow. Follow me and listen to what I say. I am he who hated Christ
and persecuted His chosen ones. I did not want Him, I did not believe in Him till He manifested
Himself and called me. Since then He is, for me, mercy. He has visited thee with compunction,
with alarm, and with pain, to call thee to Himself. Thou didst hate Him, but He loved thee.
Thou didst deliver His confessors to torture, but He wishes to forgive and save thee."

Immense sobbing shook the breast of the wretched man, sobbing by which the soul in him was
rent to its depths; but Paul took possession of him, mastered him, led him away, as a soldier
leads a captive.

After a while the Apostle began again to speak:--

"Come with me; I will lead thee to Him. For why else have I come to thee?

"Christ commanded me to gather in souls in the name of love; hence I perform His service. Thou
thinkest thyself accursed, but I say: Believe in Him, and salvation awaits thee. Thou thinkest
that thou art hated, but I repeat that He loves thee. Look at me. Before I had Him I had nothing
save malice, which dwelt in my heart, and now His love suffices me instead of father and mother,
wealth and power. In Him alone is refuge. He alone will see thy sorrow, believe in thy misery,
remove thy alarm, and raise thee to Himself."

Thus speaking, he led him to the fountain, the silver stream of which gleamed from afar in
the moonlight. Round about was silence; the gardens were empty, for slaves had removed the
charred pillars and the bodies of the martyrs.

Chilo threw himself on his knees with a groan, and hiding his face in his hands remained motionless.
Paul raised his face to the stars. "O Lord," prayed he, "look on this wretched man, on his
sorrow, his tears, and his suffering! O God of mercy, who hast shed Thy blood for our sins,
forgive him, through Thy torment, Thy death and resurrection!"

Then he was silent; but for a long time he looked toward the stars, and prayed.

Meanwhile from under his feet was heard a cry which resembled a groan,--

"O Christ! O Christ! forgive me!"

Paul approached the fountain then, and, taking water in his hand, turned to the kneeling wretch,--

"Chilo!--I baptize thee in the name of the Father, Son, and Spirit. Amen!"

Chilo raised his head, opened his arms, and remained in that posture. The moon shone with full
light on his white hair and on his equally white face, which was as motionless as if dead or
cut out of stone. The moments passed one after another. From the great aviaries in the gardens
of Domitian came the crowing of cocks; but Chilo remained kneeling, like a statue on a monument.
At last he recovered, spoke to the Apostle, and asked,--

"What am I to do before death?"

Paul was roused also from meditation on the measureless power which even such spirits as that
of this Greek could not resist, and answered,--

"Have faith, and bear witness to the truth."

They went out together. At the gate the Apostle blessed the old man again, and they parted.
Chilo himself insisted on this, for after what had happened he knew that Cæsar and Tigellinus
would give command to pursue him.

Indeed he was not mistaken. When he returned home, he found the house surrounded by pretorians,
who led him away, and took him under direction of Scevinus to the Palatine.

Cæsar had gone to rest, but Tigellinus was waiting. When he saw the unfortunate Greek, he greeted
him with a calm but ominous face.

"Thou hast committed the crime of treason," said he, "and punishment will not pass thee; but
if to-morrow thou testify in the amphitheatre that thou wert drunk and mad, and that the authors
of the conflagration are Christians, thy punishment will be limited to stripes and exile."

"I cannot do that," answered Chilo, calmly.

Tigellinus approached him with slow step, and with a voice also low but terrible,--

"How is that?" asked he. "Thou canst not, Greek dog? Wert thou not drunk, and dost thou not
understand what is waiting for thee? Look there!" and he pointed to a corner of the atrium
in which, near a long wooden bench, stood four Thracian slaves in the shade with ropes, and
with pincers in their hands.

But Chilo answered,--

"I cannot!"

Rage seized Tigellinus, but he restrained himself yet.

"Hast thou seen," inquired he, "how Christians die? Dost wish to die in that way?"

The old man raised his pale face; for a time his lips moved in silence, and he answered,--

"I too believe in Christ."

Tigellinus looked at him with amazement. "Dog, thou hast gone mad in fact!"

And suddenly the rage in his breast broke its bounds. Springing at Chilo, he caught him by
the beard with both hands, hurled him to the floor, trampled him, repeating, with foam on his
lips,--

"Thou wilt retract! thou wilt!"

"I cannot!" answered Chilo from the floor.

"To the tortures with him!"

At this command the Thracians seized the old man, and placed him on the bench; then, fastening
him with ropes to it, they began to squeeze his thin shanks with pincers. But when they were
tying him he kissed their hands with humility; then he closed his eyes, and seemed dead.

He was alive, though; for when Tigellinus bent over him and inquired once again, "Wilt thou
retract?" his white lips moved slightly, and from them came the barely audible whisper,--

"I cannot."

Tigellinus gave command to stop the torture, and began to walk up and down in the atrium with
a face distorted by anger, but helpless. At last a new idea came to his head, for he turned
to the Thracians and said,--

"Tear out his tongue!"

Chapter LXII

THE drama "Aureolus" was given usually in theatres or amphitheatres, so arranged that they
could open and present as it were two separate stages. But after the spectacle in the gardens
of Cæsar the usual method was omitted; for in this case the problem was to let the greatest
number of people look at a slave who, in the drama, is devoured by a bear. In the theatres
the role of the bear is played by an actor sewed up in a skin, but this time the representation
was to be real. This was a new idea of Tigellinus. At first Cæsar refused to come, but changed
his mind at persuasion of the favorite. Tigellinus explained that after what had happened in
the gardens it was all the more his duty to appear before the people, and he guaranteed that
the crucified slave would not insult him as had Crispus. The people were somewhat sated and
tired of blood-spilling; hence a new distribution of lottery tickets and gifts was promised,
as well as a feast, for the spectacle was to be in the evening, in a brilliantly lighted amphitheatre.

About dusk the whole amphitheatre was packed; the Augustians, with Tigellinus at the head of
them, came to a man,--not only for the spectacle itself, but to show their devotion to Cæsar
and their opinion of Chilo, of whom all Rome was then talking.

They whispered to one another that Cæsar, when returning from the gardens, had fallen into
a frenzy and could not sleep, that terrors and wonderful visions had attacked him; therefore
he had announced on the following morning his early journey to Achæa. But others denied this,
declaring that he would be all the more pitiless to the Christians. Cowards, however, were
not lacking, who foresaw that the accusation which Chilo had thrown into Cæsar's face might
have the worst result possible. In conclusion, there were those who through humanity begged
Tigellinus to stop persecution.

"See whither ye are going," said Barcus Soranus. "Ye wished to allay people's anger and convince
them that punishment was falling on the guilty; the result is just the opposite."

"True!" added Antistius Verus, "all whisper to one another now that the Christians were innocent.
If that be cleverness, Chilo was right when he said that your brains could be held in a nutshell."

Tigellinus turned to them and said: "Barcus Soranus, people whisper also to one another that
thy daughter Servilia secreted her Christian slaves from Cæsar's justice; they say the same
also of thy wife, Antistius."

"That is not true!" exclaimed Barcus, with alarm.

"Your divorced women wished to ruin my wife, whose virtue they envy," said Antistius Verus,
with no less alarm.

But others spoke of Chilo.

"What has happened to him?" asked Eprius Marcellus. "He delivered them himself into the hands
of Tigellinus; from a beggar he became rich; it was possible for him to live out his days in
peace, have a splendid funeral, and a tomb: but, no! All at once he preferred to lose everything
and destroy himself; he must, in truth, be a maniac."

"Not a maniac, but he has become a Christian," said Tigellinus.

"Impossible!" said Vitelius.

"Have I not said," put in Vestinius, "'Kill Christians if ye like; but believe me ye cannot
war with their divinity. With it there is no jesting'? See what is taking place. I have not
burned Rome; but if Cæsar permitted I would give a hecatomb at once to their divinity. And
all should do the same, for I repeat: With it there is no jesting! Remember my words to you."

"And I said something else," added Petronius. "Tigellinus laughed when I said that they were
arming, but I say more,--they are conquering."

"How is that? how is that?" inquired a number of voices.

"By Pollux, they are! For if such a man as Chilo could not resist them, who can? If ye think
that after every spectacle the Christians do not increase, become coppersmiths, or go to shaving
beards, for then ye will know better what people think, and what is happening in the city."

"He speaks pure truth, by the sacred peplus of Diana," cried Vestinius.

But Barcus turned to Petronius.

"What is thy conclusion?"

"I conclude where ye began,--there has been enough of bloodshed."

Tigellinus looked at him jeeringly,--"Ei!--a little more!"

"If thy head is not sufficient, thou hast another on thy cane," said Petronius.

Further conversation was interrupted by the coming of Cæsar, who occupied his place in company
with Pythagoras. Immediately after began the representation of "Aureolus," to which not much
attention was paid, for the minds of the audience were fixed on Chilo. The spectators, familiar
with blood and torture, were bored; they hissed, gave out shouts uncomplimentary to the court,
and demanded the bear scene, which for them was the only thing of interest. Had it not been
for gifts and the hope of seeing Chilo, the spectacle would not have held the audience.

At last the looked-for moment came. Servants of the Circus brought in first a wooden cross,
so low that a bear standing on his hind feet might reach the martyr's breast; then two men
brought, or rather dragged in, Chilo, for as the bones in his legs were broken, he was unable
to walk alone. They laid him down and nailed him to the wood so quickly that the curious Augustians
had not even a good look at him, and only after the cross had been fixed in the place prepared
for it did all eyes turn to the victim. But it was a rare person who could recognize in that
naked man the former Chilo. After the tortures which Tigellinus had commanded, there was not
one drop of blood in his face, and only on his white beard was evident a red trace left by
blood after they had torn his tongue out. Through the transparent skin it was quite possible
to see his bones. He seemed far older also, almost decrepit. Formerly his eyes cast glances
ever filled with disquiet and ill-will, his watchful face reflected constant alarm and uncertainty;
now his face had an expression of pain, but it was as mild and calm as faces of the sleeping
or the dead. Perhaps remembrance of that thief on the cross whom Christ had forgiven lent him
confidence; perhaps, also, he said in his soul to the merciful God,

"O Lord, I bit like a venomous worm; but all my life I was unfortunate. I was famishing from
hunger, people trampled on me, beat me, jeered at me. I was poor and very unhappy, and now
they put me to torture and nail me to a cross; but Thou, O Merciful, wilt not reject me in
this hour!" Peace descended evidently into his crushed heart. No one laughed, for there was
in that crucified man something so calm, he seemed so old, so defenceless, so weak, calling
so much for pity with his lowliness, that each one asked himself unconsciously how it was possible
to torture and nail to crosses men who would die soon in any case. The crowd was silent. Among
the Augustians Vestinius, bending to right and left, whispered in a terrified voice, "See how
they die!" Others were looking for the bear, wishing the spectacle to end at the earliest.

The bear came into the arena at last, and, swaying from side to side a head which hung low,
he looked around from beneath his forehead, as if thinking of something or seeking something.
At last he saw the cross and the naked body. He approached it, and stood on his hind legs;
but after a moment he dropped again on his fore-paws, and sitting under the cross began to
growl, as if in his heart of a beast pity for that remnant of a man had made itself heard.

Cries were heard from Circus slaves urging on the bear, but the people were silent.

Meanwhile Chilo raised his head with slow motion, and for a time moved his eyes over the audience.
At last his glance rested somewhere on the highest rows of the amphitheatre; his breast moved
with more life, and something happened which caused wonder and astonishment. That face became
bright with a smile; a ray of light, as it were, encircled that forehead; his eyes were uplifted
before death, and after a while two great tears which had risen between the lids flowed slowly
down his face.

And he died.

At that same moment a resonant manly voice high up under the velarium exclaimed,--

"Peace to the martyrs!"

Deep silence reigned in the amphitheatre.

Chapter LXIII

AFTER the spectacle in Cæsar's gardens the prisons were emptied considerably. It is true that
victims suspected of the Oriental superstition were seized yet and imprisoned, but pursuit
brought in fewer and fewer persons,--barely enough for coming exhibitions, which were to follow
quickly. People were sated with blood; they showed growing weariness, and increasing alarm
because of the unparalleled conduct of the condemned. Fears like those of the superstitious
Vestinius seized thousands of people. Among the crowds tales more and more wonderful were related
of the vengefulness of the Christian God. Prison typhus, which had spread through the city,
increased the general dread. The number of funerals was evident, and it was repeated from ear
to ear that fresh piacula were needed to mollify the unknown god. Offerings were made in the
temples to Jove and Libitina. At last, in spite of every effort of Tigellinus and his assistants,
the opinion kept spreading that the city had been burned at command of Cæsar, and that the
Christians were suffering innocently.

But for this very reason Nero and Tigellinus were untiring in persecution. To calm the multitude,
fresh orders were issued to distribute wheat, wine, and olives. To relieve owners, new rules
were published to facilitate the building of houses; and others touching width of streets and
materials to be used in building so as to avoid fires in future. Cæsar himself attended sessions
of the Senate, and counselled with the "fathers" on the good of the people and the city; but
not a shadow of favor fell on the doomed. The ruler of the world was anxious, above all, to
fix in people's minds a conviction that such merciless punishments could strike only the guilty.
In the Senate no voice was heard on behalf of the Christians, for no one wished to offend Cæsar;
and besides, those who looked farther into the future insisted that the foundations of Roman
rule could not stand against the new faith.

The dead and the dying were given to their relatives, as Roman law took no vengeance on the
dead. Vinicius received a certain solace from the thought that if Lygia died he would bury
her in his family tomb, and rest near her. At that time he had no hope of rescuing her; half
separated from life, he was himself wholly absorbed in Christ, and dreamed no longer of any
union except an eternal one. His faith had become simply boundless; for it eternity seemed
something incomparably truer and more real than the fleeting life which he had lived up to
that time. His heart was overflowing with concentrated enthusiasm. Though yet alive, he had
changed into a being almost immaterial, which desiring complete liberation for itself desired
it also for another. He imagined that when free he and Lygia would each take the other's hand
and go to heaven, where Christ would bless them, and let them live in light as peaceful and
boundless as the light of dawn. He merely implored Christ to spare Lygia the torments of the
Circus, and let her fall asleep calmly in prison; he felt with perfect certainty that he himself
would die at the same time. In view of the sea of blood which had been shed, he did not even
think it permitted to hope that she alone would be spared. He had heard from Peter and Paul
that they, too, must die as martyrs. The sight of Chilo on the cross had convinced him that
even a martyr's death could be sweet; hence he wished it for Lygia and himself as the change
of an evil, sad, and oppressive fate for a better.

At times he had a foretaste of life beyond the grave. That sadness which hung over the souls
of both was losing its former burning bitterness, and changing gradually into a kind of trans-terrestrial,
calm abandon to the will of God. Vinicius, who formerly had toiled against the current, had
struggled and tortured himself, yielded now to the stream, believing that it would bear him
to eternal calm. He divined, too, that Lygia, as well as he, was preparing for death,--that,
in spite of the prison walls separating them, they were advancing together; and he smiled at
that thought as at happiness.

In fact, they were advancing with as much agreement as if they had exchanged thoughts every
day for a long time. Neither had Lygia any desire, any hope, save the hope of a life beyond
the grave. Death was presented to her not only as a liberation from the terrible walls of the
prison, from the hands of Cæsar and Tigellinus,--not only as liberation, but as the hour of
her marriage to Vinicius. In view of this unshaken certainty, all else lost importance. After
death would come her happiness, which was even earthly, so that she waited for it also as a
betrothed waits for the wedding-day.

And that immense current of faith, which swept away from life and bore beyond the grave thousands
of those first confessors, bore away Ursus also. Neither had he in his heart been resigned
to Lygia's death; but when day after day through the prison walls came news of what was happening
in the amphitheatres and the gardens, when death seemed the common, inevitable lot of all Christians
and also their good, higher than all mortal conceptions of happiness, he did not dare to pray
to Christ to deprive Lygia of that happiness or to delay it for long years. In his simple barbarian
soul he thought, besides, that more of those heavenly delights would belong to the daughter
of the Lygian chief, that she would have more of them than would a whole crowd of simple ones
to whom he himself belonged, and that in eternal glory she would sit nearer to the "Lamb" than
would others. He had heard, it is true, that before God men are equal; but a conviction was
lingering at the bottom of his soul that the daughter of a leader, and besides of a leader
of all the Lygians, was not the same as the first slave one might meet. He hoped also that
Christ would let him continue to serve her. His one secret wish was to die on a cross as the
"Lamb" died. But this seemed a happiness so great that he hardly dared to pray for it, though
he knew that in Rome even the worst criminals were crucified. He thought that surely he would
be condemned to die under the teeth of wild beasts; and this was his one sorrow. From childhood
he had lived in impassable forests, amid continual hunts, in which, thanks to his superhuman
strength, he was famous among the Lygians even before he had grown to manhood. This occupation
had become for him so agreeable that later, when in Rome, and forced to live without hunting,
he went to vivaria and amphitheatres just to look at beasts known and unknown to him. The sight
of these always roused in the man an irresistible desire for struggle and killing; so now he
feared in his soul that on meeting them in the amphitheatre he would be attacked by thoughts
unworthy of a Christian, whose duty it was to die piously and patiently. But in this he committed
himself to Christ, and found other and more agreeable thoughts to comfort him. Hearing that
the "Lamb" had declared war against the powers of hell and evil spirits with which the Christian
faith connected all pagan divinities, he thought that in this war he might serve the "Lamb"
greatly, and serve better than others, for he could not help believing that his soul was stronger
than the souls of other martyrs. Finally, he prayed whole days, rendered service to prisoners,
helped overseers, and comforted his queen, who complained at times that in her short life she
had not been able to do so many good deeds as the renowned Tabitha of whom Peter the Apostle
had told her. Even the prison guards, who feared the terrible strength of this giant, since
neither bars nor chains could restrain it, came to love him at last for his mildness. Amazed
at his good temper, they asked more than once what its cause was. He spoke with such firm certainty
of the life waiting after death for him, that they listened with surprise, seeing for the first
time that happiness might penetrate a dungeon which sunlight could not reach. And when he urged
them to believe in the "Lamb," it occurred to more than one of those people that his own service
was the service of a slave, his own life the life of an unfortunate; and he fell to thinking
over his evil fate, the only end to which was death.

But death brought new fear, and promised nothing beyond; while that giant and that maiden,
who was like a flower cast on the straw of the prison, went toward it with delight, as toward
the gates of happiness.

Chapter LXIV

ONE evening Scevinus, a Senator, visited Petronius and began a long conversation, touching
the grievous times in which they were living, and also touching Cæsar. He spoke so openly that
Petronius, though his friend, began to be cautious. Scevinus complained that the world was
living madly and unjustly, that all must end in some catastrophe more dreadful still than the
burning of Rome. He said that even Augustians were dissatisfied; that Fenius Rufus, second
prefect of the pretorians, endured with the greatest effort the vile orders of Tigellinus;
and that all Seneca's relatives were driven to extremes by Cæsar's conduct as well toward his
old master as toward Lucan. Finally, he began to hint of the dissatisfaction of the people,
and even of the pretorians, the greater part of whom had been won by Fenius Rufus.

"Why dost thou say this?" inquired Petronius.

"Out of care for Cæsar," said Scevinus. "I have a distant relative among the pretorians, also
Scevinus; through him I know what takes place in the camp. Disaffection is growing there also;
Caligula, knowest thou, was mad too, and see what happened. Cassius Chærea appeared. That was
a dreadful deed, and surely there is no one among us to praise it; still Chærea freed the world
of a monster."

"Is thy meaning as follows: 'I do not praise Chærea, but he was a perfect man, and would that
the gods had given us as many such as possible'?" inquired Petronius.

But Scevinus changed the conversation, and began all at once to praise Piso, exalting his family,
his nobility of mind, his attachment to his wife, and, finally, his intellect, his calmness,
and his wonderful gift of winning people.

"Cæsar is childless," said he, "and all see his successor in Piso. Doubtless, too, every man
would help him with whole soul to gain power. Fenius Rufus loves him; the relatives of Annæus
are devoted to him altogether. Plautius Lateranus and Tullius Senecio would spring into fire
for him; as would Natalis, and Subrius Flavius, and Sulpicius Asper, and Afranius Quinetianus,
and even Vestinius."

"From this last man not much will result to Piso," replied Petronius. "Vestinius is afraid
of his own shadow."

"Vestinius fears dreams and spirits," answered Scevinus, "but he is a practical man, whom people
wish wisely to make consul. That in his soul he is opposed to persecuting Christians, thou
shouldst not take ill of him, for it concerns thee too that this madness should cease."

"Not me, but Vinicius," answered Petronius. "Out of concern for Vinicius, I should like to
save a certain maiden; but I cannot, for I have fallen out of favor with Ahenobarbus."

"How is that? Dost thou not notice that Cæsar is approaching thee again, and beginning to talk
with thee? And I will tell thee why. He is preparing again for Achæa, where he is to sing songs
in Greek of his own composition. He is burning for that journey; but also he trembles at thought
of the cynical genius of the Greeks. He imagines that either the greatest triumph may meet
him or the greatest failure. He needs good counsel, and he knows that no one can give it better
than thou. This is why thou art returning to favor."

"Lucan might take my place."

"Bronzebeard hates Lucan, and in his soul has written down death for the poet. He is merely
seeking a pretext, for he seeks pretexts always."

"By Castor!" said Petronius, "that may be. But I might have still another way for a quick return
to favor."

"What?"

"To repeat to Bronzebeard what thou hast told me just now."

"I have said nothing!" cried Scevinus, with alarm.

Petronius placed his hand upon the Senator's shoulder. "Thou hast called Cæsar a madman, thou
hast foreseen the heirship of Piso, and hast said, 'Lucan understands that there is need to
hasten.' What wouldst thou hasten, carissime?"

Scevinus grew pale, and for a moment each looked into the eyes of the other.

"Thou wilt not repeat!"

"By the hips of Kypris, I will not! How well thou knowest me! No; I will not repeat. I have
heard nothing, and, moreover, I wish to hear nothing. Dost understand? Life is too short to
make any undertaking worth the while. I beg thee only to visit Tigellinus to-day, and talk
with him as long as thou hast with me of whatever may please thee."

"Why?"

"So that should Tigellinus ever say to me, 'Scevinus was with thee,' I might answer, 'He was
with thee, too, that very day.'"

Scevinus, when he heard this, broke the ivory cane which he had in his hand, and said,--"May
the evil fall on this stick! I shall be with Tigellinus to-day, and later at Nerva's feast.
Thou, too, wilt be there? In every case till we meet in the amphitheatre, where the last of
the Christians will appear the day after tomorrow. Till we meet!"

"After to-morrow!" repeated Petronius, when alone. "There is no time to lose. Ahenobarbus will
need me really in Achæa; hence he may count with me."

And he determined to try the last means.

In fact, at Nerva's feast Cæsar himself asked that Petronius recline opposite, for he wished
to speak with the arbiter about Achæa and the cities in which he might appear with hopes of
the greatest success. He cared most for the Athenians, whom he feared. Other Augustians listened
to this conversation with attention, so as to seize crumbs of the arbiter's opinions, and give
them out later on as their own.

"It seems to me that I have not lived up to this time," said Nero, "and that my birth will
come only in Greece."

"Thou wilt be born to new glory and immortality," answered Petronius.

"I trust that this is true, and that Apollo will not seem jealous. If I return in triumph,
I will offer him such a hecatomb as no god has had so far."

Scevinus fell to repeating the lines of Horace:--

"Sic te diva potens Cypri, Sic fratres Helenæ, lucida sidera, Ventorumque regat Pater-"

"The vessel is ready at Naples," said Cæsar. "I should like to go even tomorrow."

At this Petronius rose, and, looking straight into Nero's eyes, said,

"Permit me, O divinity, to celebrate a wedding-feast, to which I shall invite thee before others."

"A wedding-feast! What wedding-feast?" inquired Nero.

"That of Vinicius with thy hostage the daughter of the Lygian king. She is in prison at present,
it is true; but as a hostage she is not subject to imprisonment, and, secondly, thou thyself
hast permitted Vinicius to marry her; and as thy sentences, like those of Zeus, are unchangeable,
thou wilt give command to free her from prison, and I will give her to thy favorite."

The cool blood and calm self-possession with which Petronius spoke disturbed Nero, who was
disturbed whenever any one spoke in that fashion to him.

"I know," said he, dropping his eyes. "I have thought of her and of that giant who killed Croton."

"In that case both are saved," answered Petronius, calmly.

But Tigellinus came to the aid of his master: "She is in prison by the will of Cæsar; thou
thyself hast said, O Petronius, that his sentences are unchangeable."

All present, knowing the history of Vinicius and Lygia, understood perfectly what the question
was; hence they were silent, curious as to the end of the conversation.

"She is in prison against the will of Cæsar and through thy error, through thy ignorance of
the law of nations," said Petronius, with emphasis. "Thou art a naive man, Tigellinus; but
even thou wilt not assert that she burnt Rome, and if thou wert to do so, Cæsar would not believe
thee."

But Nero had recovered and begun to half close his near-sighted eyes with an expression of
indescribable malice.

"Petronius is right," said he, after a while.

Tigellinus looked at him with amazement.

"Petronius is right," repeated Nero; "to-morrow the gates of the prison will be open to her,
and of the marriage feast we will speak the day after at the amphitheatre."

"I have lost again," thought Petronius.

When he had returned home, he was so certain that the end of Lygia's life had come that he
sent a trusty freedman to the amphitheatre to bargain with the chief of the spoliarium for
the delivery of her body, since he wished to give it to Vinicius.

Chapter LXV

Evening exhibitions, rare up to that period and given only exceptionally, became common in
Nero's time, both in the Circus and amphitheatre. The Augustians liked them, frequently because
they were followed by feasts and drinking-bouts which lasted till daylight. Though the people
were sated already with blood-spilling, still, when the news went forth that the end of the
games was approaching, and that the last of the Christians were to die at an evening spectacle,
a countless audience assembled in the amphitheatre. The Augustians came to a man, for they
understood that it would not be a common spectacle; they knew that Cæsar had determined to
make for himself a tragedy out of the suffering of Vinicius. Tigellinus had kept secret the
kind of punishment intended for the betrothed of the young tribune; but that merely roused
general curiosity. Those who had seen Lygia at the house of Plautius told wonders of her beauty.
Others were occupied above all with the question, would they see her really on the arena that
day; for many of those who had heard the answer given Petronius and Nerva by Cæsar explained
it in two ways: some supposed simply that Nero would give or perhaps had given the maiden to
Vinicius; they remembered that she was a hostage, hence free to worship whatever divinities
she liked, and that the law of nations did not permit her punishment.

Uncertainty, waiting, and curiosity had mastered all spectators. Cæsar arrived earlier than
usual; and immediately at his coming people whispered that something uncommon would happen,
for besides Tigellinus and Vatinius, Cæsar had with him Cassius, a centurion of enormous size
and gigantic strength, whom he summoned only when he wished to have a defender at his side,--for
example, when he desired night expeditions to the Subura, where he arranged the amusement called
"sagatio," which consisted in tossing on a soldier's mantle maidens met on the way. It was
noted also that certain precautions had been taken in the amphitheatre itself. The pretorian
guards were increased; command over them was held, not by a centurion, but by the tribune Subrius
Flavius, known hitherto for blind attachment to Nero. It was understood, then, that Cæsar wished
in every case to guard himself against an outburst of despair from Vinicius, and curiosity
rose all the more.

Every eye was turned with strained gaze to the place where the unfortunate lover was sitting.
He was exceedingly pale, and his forehead was covered with drops of sweat; he was in as much
doubt as were other spectators, but alarmed to the lowest depth of his soul. Petronius knew
not what would happen; he was silent, except that, while turning from Nerva, he asked Vinicius
whether he was ready for everything, and next, whether he would remain at the spectacle. To
both questions Vinicius answered "Yes," but a shudder passed through his whole body; he divined
that Petronius did not ask without reason. For some time he had lived with only half his life,--he
had sunk in death, and reconciled himself to Lygia's death, since for both it was to be liberation
and marriage; but he learned now that it was one thing to think of the last moment when it
was distant as of a quiet dropping asleep, and another to look at the torment of a person dearer
to one than life. All sufferings endured formerly rose in him anew. Despair, which had been
set at rest, began again to cry in his soul; the former desire to save Lygia at any price seized
him anew. Beginning with the morning, he had tried to go to the cunicula to be sure that she
was there; but the pretorians watched every entrance, and orders were so strict that the soldiers,
even those whom he knew, would not be softened by prayers or gold. It seemed to the tribune
that uncertainty would kill him before he should see the spectacle. Somewhere at the bottom
of his heart the hope was still throbbing, that perhaps Lygia was not in the amphitheatre,
that his fears were groundless. At times he seized on this hope with all his strength. He said
in his soul that Christ might take her to Himself out of the prison, but could not permit her
torture in the Circus. Formerly he was resigned to the divine will in everything; now, when
repulsed from the doors of the cunicula, he returned to his place in the amphitheatre, and
when he learned, from the curious glances turned on him, that the most dreadful suppositions
might be true, he began to implore in his soul with passionateness almost approaching a threat.
"Thou canst!" repeated he, clenching his fists convulsively, "Thou canst!" Hitherto he had
not supposed that that moment when present would be so terrible. Now, without clear consciousness
of what was happening in his mind, he had the feeling that if he should see Lygia tortured,
his love for God would be turned to hatred, and his faith to despair. But he was amazed at
the feeling, for he feared to offend Christ, whom he was imploring for mercy and miracles.
He implored no longer for her life; he wished merely that she should die before they brought
her to the arena, and from the abyss of his pain he repeated in spirt: "Do not refuse even
this, and I will love Thee still more than hitherto." And then his thoughts raged as a sea
torn by a whirlwind. A desire for blood and vengeance was roused in him. He was seized by a
mad wish to rush at Nero and stifle him there in presence of all the spectators; but he felt
that desire to be a new offence against Christ, and a breach of His command. To his head flew
at times flashes of hope that everything before which his soul was trembling would be turned
aside by an almighty and merciful hand; but they were quenched at once, as if in measureless
sorrow that He who could destroy that Circus with one word and save Lygia had abandoned her,
though she trusted in Him and loved Him with all the strength of her pure heart. And he thought,
moreover, that she was lying there in that dark place, weak, defenceless, deserted, abandoned
to the whim or disfavor of brutal guards, drawing her last breath, perhaps, while he had to
wait, helpless, in that dreadful amphitheatre, without knowing what torture was prepared for
her, or what he would witness in a moment. Finally, as a man falling over a precipice grasps
at everything which grows on the edge of it, so did he grasp with both hands at the thought
that faith of itself could save her. That one method remained! Peter had said that faith could
move the earth to its foundations.

Hence he rallied; he crushed doubt in himself, he compressed his whole being into the sentence,
"I believe," and he looked for a miracle.

But as an overdrawn cord may break, so exertion broke him. The pallor of death covered his
face, and his body relaxed. He thought then that his prayer had been heard, for he was dying.
It seemed to him that Lygia must surely die too, and that Christ would take them to Himself
in that way. The arena, the white togas, the countless spectators, the light of thousands of
lamps and torches, all vanished from his vision.

But his weakness did not last long. After a while he roused himself, or rather the stamping
of the impatient multitude roused him.

"Thou art ill," said Petronius; "give command to bear thee home."

And without regard to what Cæsar would say, he rose to support Vinicius and go out with him.
His heart was filled with pity, and, moreover, he was irritated beyond endurance because Cæsar
was looking through the emerald at Vinicius, studying his pain with satisfaction, to describe
it afterwards, perhaps, in pathetic strophes, and win the applause of hearers.

Vinicius shook his head. He might die in that amphitheatre, but he could not go out of it.
Moreover the spectacle might begin any moment. I believe! I believe!"

This time the amphitheatre was silent.

"Look!" cried Petronius, snatching the toga from the head of Vinicius. In the amphitheatre
a fly might be heard on the wing. People could not believe their own eyes. That giant had become
dear to those people enamoured of physical strength; he was the first personage in Rome.

He understood that the multitude were striving to grant him his life and restore him his freedom,
but clearly his thought was not on himself alone. So did Scevinus, the Senator; so did Nerva,
so did Tullius Senecio, so did the famous leader Ostorius Scapula, and Antistius, and Piso,
and Vetus, and Crispinus, and Minucius Thermus, and Pontius Telesinus, and the most important
of all, one honored by the people, Thrasea.

In view of this, Cæsar took the emerald from his eye with an expression of contempt and offence;
when Tigellinus, whose desire was to spite Petronius, turned to him and said,--

"Yield not, divinity; we have the pretorians." Romans were absolute lords in the Circus. Former
Cæsars, and especially Caligula, had permitted themselves sometimes to act against the will
of the people; this, however, called forth disturbance always, going sometimes to bloodshed.
But Nero was in a different position.

He looked once more at Subrius Flavius, at Scevinus the centurion, a relative of the senator,
at the soldiers; and seeing everywhere frowning brows, excited faces, and eyes fixed on him,
he gave the sign for mercy.

Then a thunder of applause was heard from the highest seats to the lowest. The people were
sure of the lives of the condemned, for from that moment they went under their protection,
and even Cæsar would not have dared to pursue them any longer with his vengeance.

Chapter LXVI

FOUR Bithynians carried Lygia carefully to the house of Petronius. Vinicius and Ursus walked
at her side, hurrying so as to give her into the hands of the Greek physician as quickly as
possible. They walked in silence, for after the events of the day they had not power to speak.
Vinicius so far was as if half conscious. He kept repeating to himself that Lygia was saved;
that she was threatened no longer by imprisonment, or death in the Circus; that their misfortunes
had ended once and forever; that he would take her home and not separate again from her. This
appeared to him the beginning of some other life rather than reality. From moment to moment
he bent over the open litter to look on the beloved face, which in the moonlight seemed sleeping,
and he repeated mentally, "This is she! Christ has saved her!" He remembered also that while
he and Ursus were carrying her from the spoliarium an unknown physician had assured him that
she was living and would recover. At this thought delight so filled his breast that at moments
he grew weak, and being unable to walk with his own strength leaned on the arm of Ursus. Ursus
meanwhile was looking into the sky filled with stars, and was praying.

They advanced hurriedly along streets where newly erected white buildings shone brightly in
the moonlight. The city was empty, save here and there where crowds of people crowned with
ivy, sang and danced before porticos to the sound of flutes, thus taking advantage of the wonderful
night and the festive season, unbroken from the beginning of the games. Only when they were
near the house did Ursus stop praying, and say in a low voice, as if he feared to waken Lygia,--

"Lord, it was the Saviour who rescued her from death. When I saw her on the horns of the aurochs,
I heard a voice in my soul saying, 'Defend her!' and that was the voice of the Lamb. The prison
took strength from me, but He gave it back in that moment, and inspired that cruel people to
take her part. Let His will be done!"

And Vinicius answered,--

"Magnified be His name!"

He had not power to continue, for all at once he felt that a mighty weeping was swelling his
breast. He was seized by an overpowering wish to throw himself on the earth and thank the Saviour
for His miracles and His mercy.

Meanwhile they had come to the house; the servants, informed by a slave despatched in advance,
crowded out to meet them. Paul of Tarsus had sent back from Antium the greater part of those
people. The misfortune of Vinicius was known to them perfectly; therefore their delight at
seeing those victims which had been snatched from the malice of Nero was immense, and increased
still more when the physician Theocles declared that Lygia had not suffered serious injury,
and that when the weakness caused by prison fever had passed, she would regain health.

Consciousness returned to her that night. Waking in the splendid chamber lighted by Corinthian
lamps, amidst the odor of verbena and nard, she knew not where she was, or what was taking
place with her. She remembered the moment in which she had been lashed to the horns of the
chained bull; and now, seeing above her the face of Vinicius, lighted by the mild rays of the
lamp, she supposed herself no longer on earth. The thoughts were confused in her weakened head;
it seemed to her natural to be detained somewhere on the way to heaven, because of her tortures
and weakness. Feeling no pain, however, she smiled at Vinicius, and wanted to ask where they
were; but from her lips came merely a low whisper in which he could barely detect his own name.

Then he knelt near her, and, placing his hand on her forehead lightly, he said,--

"Christ saved thee, and returned thee to me!"

Her lips moved again with a meaningless whisper; her lids closed after a moment, her breast
rose with a light sigh, and she fell into a deep sleep, for which the physician had been waiting,
and after which she would return to health, he said.

Vinicius remained kneeling near her, however, sunk in prayer. His soul was melting with a love
so immense that he forgot himself utterly. Theocles returned often to the chamber, and the
golden-haired Eunice appeared behind the raised curtain a number of times; finally cranes,
reared in the gardens, began to call, heralding the coming day, but Vinicius was still embracing
in his mind the feet of Christ, neither seeing nor hearing what was passing around him, with
a heart turned into a thanksgiving, sacrificial flame, sunk in ecstasy, and though alive, half
seized into heaven.

Chapter LXVII

PETRONIUS, after the liberation of Lygia, not wishing to irritate Cæsar, went to the Palatine
with other Augustians. He wanted to hear what they were saying, and especially to learn if
Tigellinus was devising something new to destroy Lygia. Both she and Ursus had passed under
the protection of the people, it is true, and no one could place a hand on them without raising
a riot; still Petronius, knowing the hatred toward him of the all-powerful pretorian prefect,
considered that very likely Tigellinus, while unable to strike him directly, would strive to
find some means of revenge against his nephew.

Nero was angry and irritated, since the spectacle had ended quite differently from what he
had planned. At first he did not wish even to look at Petronius; but the latter, without losing
cool blood, approached him, with all the freedom of the "arbiter elegantiarum," and said,--

"Dost thou know, divinity, what occurs to me? Write a poem on the maiden who, at command of
the lord of the world, was freed from the horns of the wild bull and given to her lover. The
Greeks are sensitive, and I am sure that the poem will enchant them."

This thought pleased Nero in spite of all his irritation, and it pleased him doubly, first,
as a subject for a poem, and second, because in it he could glorify himself as the magnanimous
lord of the earth; hence he looked for a time at Petronius, and then said,--

"Yes! perhaps thou art right. But does it become me to celebrate my own goodness?"

"There is no need to give names. In Rome all will know who is meant, and from Rome reports
go through the whole world."

"But art thou sure that this will please the people in Achæa?"

"By Poilux, it will!" said Petronius.

And he went away satisfied, for he felt certain that Nero, whose whole life was an arrangement
of reality to literary plans, would not spoil the subject, and by this alone he would tie the
hands of Tigellinus. This, however, did not change his plan of sending Vinicius out of Rome
as soon as Lygia's health should permit. So when he saw him next day, he said,--

"Take her to Sicily. As things have happened, on Cæsar's part thou art threatened by nothing;
but Tigellinus is ready to use even poison,--if not out of hatred to you both, out of hatred
to me."

Vinicius smiled at him, and said: "She was on the horns of the wild bull; still Christ saved her."

"Then honor Him with a hecatomb," replied Petronius, with an accent of impatience, "but do
not beg Him to save her a second time. Dost remember how Eolus received Ulysses when he returned
to ask a second time for favoring winds? Deities do not like to repeat themselves."

"When her health returns, I will take her to Pomponia Græcina," said Vinicius.

"And thou wilt do that all the better since Pomponia is ill; Antistius, a relative of Aulus,
told me so. Meanwhile things will happen here to make people forget thee, and in these times
the forgotten are the happiest. May Fortune be thy sun in winter, and thy shade in summer."

Then he left Vinicius to his happiness, but went himself to inquire of Theocles touching the
life and health of Lygia.

Danger threatened her no longer. Emaciated as she was in the dungeon after prison fever, foul
air and discomfort would have killed her; but now she had the most tender care, and not only
plenty, but luxury. At command of Theocles they took her to the gardens of the villa after
two days; in these gardens she remained for hours. Vinicius decked her litter with anemones,
and especially with irises, to remind her of the atrium of the house of Aulus. More than once,
hidden in the shade of spreading trees, they spoke of past sufferings and fears, each holding
the other's hand. Lygia said that Christ had conducted him through suffering purposely to change
his soul and raise it to Himself. Vinicius felt that this was true, and that there was in him
nothing of the former patrician, who knew no law but his own desire. In those memories there
was nothing bitter, however. It seemed to both that whole years had gone over their heads,
and that the dreadful past lay far behind. At the same time such a calmness possessed them
as they had never known before. A new life of immense happiness had come and taken them into
itself. In Rome Cæsar might rage and fill the world with terror--they felt above them a guardianship
a hundred times mightier than his power, and had no further fear of his rage or his malice,
just as if for them he had ceased to be the lord of life or death. Once, about sunset, the
roar of lions and other beasts reached them from distant vivaria. Formerly those sounds filled
Vinicius with fear because they were ominous; now he and Lygia merely looked at each other
and raised their eyes to the evening twilight. At times Lygia, still very weak and unable to
walk alone, fell asleep in the quiet of the garden; he watched over her, and, looking at her
sleeping face, thought involuntarily that she was not that Lygia whom he had met at the house
of Aulus. In fact, imprisonment and disease had to some extent quenched her beauty. When he
saw her at the house of Aulus, and later, when he went to Miriam's house to seize her, she
was as wonderful as a statue and also as a flower; now her face had become almost transparent,
her hands thin, her body reduced by disease, her lips pale, and even her eyes seemed less blue
than formerly. The golden-haired Eunice who brought her flowers and rich stuffs to cover her
feet was a divinity of Cyprus in comparison. Petronius tried in vain to find the former charms
in her, and, shrugging his shoulders, thought that that shadow from Elysian fields was not
worth those struggles, those pains, and those tortures which had almost sucked the life out
of Vinicius. But Vinicius, in love now with her spirit, loved it all the more; and when he
was watching over her while asleep, it seemed to him that he was watching over the whole world.

Chapter LXVIII

NEWS of the miraculous rescue of Lygia was circulated quickly among those scattered Christians
who had escaped destruction. Confessors came to look at her to whom Christ's favor had been
shown clearly. First came Nazarius and Miriam, with whom Peter the Apostle was hiding thus
far; after them came others. All, as well as Vinicius, Lygia, and the Christian slaves of Petronius,
listened with attention to the narrative of Ursus about the voice which he had heard in his
soul, and which commanded him to struggle with the wild bull. All went away consoled, hoping
that Christ would not let His followers be exterminated on earth before His coming at the day
of judgment. And hope sustained their hearts, for persecution had not ceased yet. Whoever was
declared a Christian by public report was thrown into prison at once by the city watches. It
is true that the victims were fewer, for the majority of confessors had been seized and tortured
to death. The Christians who remained had either left Rome to wait out the storm in distant
provinces, or had hidden most carefully, not daring to assemble in common prayer, unless in
sand-pits outside the city. They were persecuted yet, however, and though the games were at
an end, the newly arrested were reserved for future games or punished specially. Though it
was believed in Rome no longer that Christians had caused the conflagration, they were declared
enemies of humanity and the State, and the edict against them remained in former force.

The Apostle Peter did not venture for a long time to appear in the house of Petronius, but
at last on a certain evening Nazarius announced his arrival. Lygia, who was able to walk alone
now, and Vinicius ran out to meet him, and fell to embracing his feet. He greeted them with
emotion all the greater that not many sheep in that flock over which Christ had given him authority,
and over the fate of which his great heart was weeping, remained to him. So when Vinicius said,
"Lord, because of thee the Redeemer returned her to me," he answered: "He returned her because
of thy faith, and so that not all the lips which profess His name should grow silent." And
evidently he was thinking then of those thousands of his children torn by wild beasts, of those
crosses with which the arena had been filled, and those fiery pillars in the gardens of the
"Beast"; for he spoke with great sadness. Vinicius and Lygia noticed also that his hair had
grown entirely white, that his whole form was bent, and that in his face there was as much
sadness and suffering as if he had passed through all those pains and torments which the victims
of Nero's rage and madness had endured. But both understood that since Christ had given Himself
to torture and to death, no one was permitted to avoid it. Still their hearts were cut at sight
of the Apostle, bent by years, toil, and pain. So Vinicius, who intended to take Lygia soon
to Naples, where they would meet Pomponia and go to Sicily, implored him to leave Rome in their
company.

And when they were silent, not knowing the sense of his speech, he added,

"My toil is nearing its end; I shall find entertainment and rest only in the house of the Lord."

Then he turned to them saying: "Remember me, for I have loved you as a father loves his children;
and whatever ye do in life, do it for the glory of God."

Thus speaking, he raised his aged, trembling hands and blessed them; they nestled up to him,
feeling that to be the last blessing, perhaps, which they should receive from him.

It was destined them, however, to see him once more. A few days later Petronius brought terrible
news from the Palatine. It had been discovered there that one of Cæsar's freedmen was a Christian;
and on this man were found letters of the Apostles Peter and Paul, with letters of James, John,
and Judas. Peter's presence in Rome was known formerly to Tigellinus, but he thought that the
Apostle had perished with thousands of other confessors. Now it transpired that the two leaders
of the new faith were alive and in the capital. It was determined, therefore, to seize them
at all costs, for it was hoped that with their death the last root of the hated sect would
be plucked out. Petronius heard from Vestinius that Cæsar himself had issued an order to put
Peter and Paul in the Mamertine prison within three days, and that whole detachments of pretorians
had been sent to search every house in the Trans-Tiber.

When he heard this, Vinicius resolved to warn the Apostle. In the evening he and Ursus put
on Gallic mantles and went to the house of Miriam, where Peter was living. The house was at
the very edge of the Trans-Tiber division of the city, at the foot of the Janiculum. On the
road they saw houses surrounded by soldiers, who were guided by certain unknown persons. This
division of the city was alarmed, and in places crowds of curious people had assembled. Here
and there centurions interrogated prisoners touching Simon Peter and Paul of Tarsus.

Ursus and Vinicius were in advance of the soldiers, and went safely to Miriam's house, in which
they found Peter surrounded by a handful of the faithful. Timothy, Paul's assistant, and Linus
were at the side of the Apostle.

At news of the approaching danger, Nazarius led all by a hidden passage to the garden gate,
and then to deserted stone quarries, a few hundred yards distant from the Janiculum Gate. Ursus
had to carry Linus, whose bones, broken by torture, had not grown together yet. But once in
the quarry, they felt safe; and by the light of a torch ignited by Nazarius they began to consult,
in a low voice, how to save the life of the Apostle who was so dear to them.

"Lord," said Vinicius, "let Nazarius guide thee at daybreak to the Alban Hills. There I will
find thee, and we will take thee to Antium, where a ship is ready to take us to Naples and
Sicily. Blessed will the day and the hour be in which thou shalt enter my house, and thou wilt
bless my hearth."

The others heard this with delight, and pressed the Apostle, saying,

"Hide thyself, sacred leader; remain not in Rome. Preserve the living truth, so that it perish
not with us and thee. Hear us, who entreat thee as a father."

"Do this in Christ's name!" cried others, grasping at his robes.

"My children," answered Peter, "who knows the time when the Lord will mark the end of his life?"

But he did not say that he would not leave Rome, and he hesitated what to do; for uncertainty,
and even fear, had been creeping into his soul for some time. His flock was scattered; the
work was wrecked; that church, which before the burning of the city had been flourishing like
a splendid tree, was turned into dust by the power of the "Beast." Nothing remained save tears,
nothing save memories of torture and death. The sowing had yielded rich fruit, but Satan had
trampled it into the earth. Legions of angels had not come to aid the perishing,--and Nero
was extending in glory over the earth, terrible, mightier than ever, the lord of all seas and
all lands. More than once had that fisherman of the Lord stretched his hands heavenward in
loneliness and asked: "Lord, what must I do? How must I act? And how am I, a feeble old man,
to fight with this invincible power of Evil, which Thou hart permitted to rule, and have victory?"

And he called out thus in the depth of his immense pain, repeating in spirit: "Those sheep
which Thou didst command me to feed are no more, Thy church is no more; loneliness and mourning
are in Thy capital; what dost Thou command me to do now? Am I to stay here, or lead forth the
remnant of the flock to glorify Thy name in secret somewhere beyond the sea?"

And he hesitated, He believed that the living truth would not perish, that it must conquer;
but at moments he thought that the hour had not come yet, that it would come only when the
Lord should descend to the earth in the day of judgment in glory and power a hundred times
greater than the might of Nero.

Frequently it seemed to him that if he left Rome, the faithful would follow; that he would
lead them then far away to the shady groves of Galilee, to the quiet surface of the Lake of
Tiberias, to shepherds as peaceful as doves, or as sheep, who feed there among thyme and pepperwort.
And an increasing desire for peace and rest, an increasing yearning for the lake and Galilee,
seized the heart of the fisherman; tears came more frequently to the old man's eyes.

But at the moment when he made the choice, sudden alarm and fear came on him. How was he to
leave that city, in which so much martyrs' blood had sunk into the earth, and where so many
lips had given the true testimony of the dying? Was he alone to yield? And what would he answer
the Lord on hearing the words, "These have died for the faith, but thou didst flee"?

Nights and days passed for him in anxiety and suffering. Others, who had been torn by lions,
who had been fastened to crosses, who had been burnt in the gardens of Cæsar, had fallen asleep
in the Lord after moments of torture; but he could not sleep, and he felt greater tortures
than any of those invented by executioners for victims. Often was the dawn whitening the roofs
of houses while he was still crying from the depth of his mourning heart: "Lord, why didst
Thou command me to come hither and found Thy capital in the den of the 'Beast'?"

For thirty-three years after the death of his Master he knew no rest. Staff in hand, he had
gone through the world and declared the "good tidings." His strength had been exhausted in
journeys and toil, till at last, when in that city, which was the head of the world, he had
established the work of his Master, one bloody breath of wrath had burned it, and he saw that
there was need to take up the struggle anew. And what a struggle! On one side Cæsar, the Senate,
the people, the legions holding the world with a circle of iron, countless cities, countless
lands,--power such as the eye of man had not seen; on the other side he, so bent with age and
toil that his trembling hand was hardly able to carry his staff.

At times, therefore, he said to himself that it was not for him to measure with the Cæsar of
Rome,--that Christ alone could do that.

All these thoughts were passing through his care-filled head, when he heard the prayers of
the last handful of the faithful. They, surrounding him in an ever narrowing circle, repeated
with voices of entreaty,--

"Hide thyself, Rabbi, and lead us away from the power of the 'Beast.'"

Finally Linus also bowed his tortured head before him.

"O lord," said he, "the Redeemer commanded thee to feed His sheep, but they are here no longer
or to-morrow they will not be here; go, therefore, where thou mayst find them yet. The word
of God is living still in Jerusalem, in Antioch, in Ephesus, and in other cities. What wilt
thou do by remaining in Rome? If thou fall, thou wilt merely swell the triumph of the 'Beast.'
The Lord has not designated the limit of John's life; Paul is a Roman citizen, they cannot
condemn him without trial; but if the power of hell rise up against thee, O teacher, those
whose hearts are dejected will ask, 'Who is above Nero?' Thou art the rock on which the church
of God is founded. Let us die, but permit not the victory of Antichrist over the viceregent
of God, and return not hither till the Lord has crushed him who shed innocent blood."

"Look at our tears!" repeated all who were present.

Tears flowed over Peter's face too. After a while he rose, and, stretching his hands over the
kneeling figures, said,--

"May the name of the Lord be magnified, and may His will be done!"

Chapter LXIX

About dawn of the following day two dark figures were moving along the Appian Way toward the
Campania.

One of them was Nazarius; the other the Apostle Peter, who was leaving Rome and his martyred
co-religionists.

The sky in the east was assuming a light tinge of green, bordered gradually and more distinctly
on the lower edge with saffron color. Silver-leafed trees, the white marble of villas, and
the arches of aqueducts, stretching through the plain toward the city, were emerging from shade.
The greenness of the sky was clearing gradually, and becoming permeated with gold. Then the
east began to grow rosy and illuminate the Alban Hills, which seemed marvellously beautiful,
lily-colored, as if formed of rays of light alone.

The light was reflected in trembling leaves of trees, in the dew-drops. The haze grew thinner,
opening wider and wider views on the plain, on the houses dotting it, on the cemeteries, on
the towns, and on groups of trees, among which stood white columns of temples.

The road was empty. The villagers who took vegetables to the city had not succeeded yet, evidently,
in harnessing beasts to their vehicles. From the stone blocks with which the road was paved
as far as the mountains, there came a low sound from the bark shoes on the feet of the two
travellers.

Then the sun appeared over the line of hills; but at once a wonderful vision struck the Apostle's
eyes. It seemed to him that the golden circle, instead of rising in the sky, moved down from
the heights and was advancing on the road. Peter stopped, and asked,--

"Seest thou that brightness approaching us?"

"I see nothing," replied Nazarius.

But Peter shaded his eyes with his hand, and said after a while,

"Some figure is coming in the gleam of the sun." But not the slightest sound of steps reached
their ears. It was perfectly still all around. Nazarius saw only that the trees were quivering
in the distance, as if some one were shaking them, and the light was spreading more broadly
over the plain. He looked with wonder at the Apostle.

"Rabbi! what ails thee?" cried he, with alarm.

The pilgrim's staff fell from Peter's hands to the earth; his eyes were looking forward, motionless;
his mouth was open; on his face were depicted astonishment, delight, rapture.

Then he threw himself on his knees, his arms stretched forward; and this cry left his lips,--

"O Christ! O Christ!"

He fell with his face to the earth, as if kissing some one's feet.

The silence continued long; then were heard the words of the aged man, broken by sobs,--

"Quo vadis, Domine?"

Nazarius did not hear the answer; but to Peter's ears came a sad and sweet voice, which said,--

"If thou desert my people, I am going to Rome to be crucified a second time."

The Apostle lay on the ground, his face in the dust, without motion or speech. It seemed to
Nazarius that he had fainted or was dead; but he rose at last, seized the staff with trembling
hands, and turned without a word toward the seven hills of the city.

The boy, seeing this, repeated as an echo,--

"Quo vadis, Domine?"

"To Rome," said the Apostle, in a low voice.

And he returned.

Paul, John, Linus, and all the faithful received him with amazement; and the alarm was the
greater, since at daybreak, just after his departure, pretorians had surrounded Miriam's house
and searched it for the Apostle. But to every question he answered only with delight and peace,--

"I have seen the Lord!"

And that same evening he went to the Ostian cemetery to teach and baptize those who wished
to bathe in the water of life.

And thenceforward he went there daily, and after him went increasing numbers. It seemed that
out of every tear of a martyr new confessors were born, and that every groan on the arena found
an echo in thousands of breasts. Cæsar was swimming in blood, Rome and the whole pagan world
was mad. But those who had had enough of transgression and madness, those who were trampled
upon, those whose lives were misery and oppression, all the weighed down, all the sad, all
the unfortunate, came to hear the wonderful tidings of God, who out of love for men had given
Himself to be crucified and redeem their sins.

When they found a God whom they could love, they had found that which the society of the time
could not give any one,--happiness and love.

And Peter understood that neither Cæsar nor all his legions could overcome the living truth,--that
they could not overwhelm it with tears or blood, and that now its victory was beginning. He
understood with equal force why the Lord had turned him back on the road. That city of pride,
crime, wickedness, and power was beginning to be His city, and the double capital, from which
would flow out upon the world government of souls and bodies.

Chapter LXX

AT last the hour was accomplished for both Apostles. But, as if to complete his service, it
was given to the fisherman of the Lord to win two souls even in confinement. The soldiers,
Processus and Martinianus, who guarded him in the Mamertine prison, received baptism. Then
came the hour of torture. Nero was not in Rome at that time. Sentence was passed by Helius
and Polythetes, two freedmen to whom Cæsar had confided the government of Rome during his absence.

On the aged Apostle had been inflicted the stripes prescribed by law; and next day he was led
forth beyond the walls of the city, toward the Vatican Hill, where he was to suffer the punishment
of the cross assigned to him. Soldiers were astonished by the crowd which had gathered before
the prison, for in their minds the death of a common man, and besides a foreigner, should not
rouse such interest; they did not understand that that retinue was composed not of sightseers,
but confessors, anxious to escort the great Apostle to the place of execution. In the afternoon
the gates of the prison were thrown open at last, and Peter appeared in the midst of a detachment
of pretorians. The sun had inclined somewhat toward Ostia already; the day was clear and calm.
Because of his advanced age, Peter was not required to carry the cross; it was supposed that
he could not carry it; they had not put the fork on his neck, either, so as not to retard his
pace. He walked without hindrance, and the faithful could see him perfectly.

At moments when his white head showed itself among the iron helmets of the soldiers, weeping
was heard in the crowd; but it was restrained immediately, for the face of the old man had
in it so much calmness, and was so bright with joy, that all understood him to be not a victim
going to destruction, but a victor celebrating his triumph.

And thus it was really. The fisherman, usually humble and stooping, walked now erect, taller
than the soldiers, full of dignity. Never had men seen such majesty in his bearing. It might
have seemed that he was a monarch attended by people and military. From every side voices were
raised,--

"There is Peter going to the Lord!"

All forgot, as it were, that torture and death were waiting for him. He walked with solemn
attention, but with calmness, feeling that since the death on Golgotha nothing equally important
had happened, and that as the first death had redeemed the whole world, this was to redeem
the city.

Along the road people halted from wonder at sight of that old man; but believers, laying hands
on their shoulders, said with calm voices,--

"See how a just man goes to death,--one who knew Christ and proclaimed love to the world."

These became thoughtful, and walked away, saying to themselves, "He cannot, indeed, be unjust!"

Along the road noise was hushed, and the cries of the street. The retinue moved on before houses
newly reared, before white columns of temples, over whose summits hung the deep sky, calm and
blue. They went in quiet; only at times the weapons of the soldiers clattered, or the murmur
of prayer rose. Peter heard the last, and his face grew bright with increasing joy, for his
glance could hardly take in those thousands of confessors. He felt that he had done his work,
and he knew now that that truth which he had been declaring all his life would overwhelm everything,
like a sea, and that nothing would have power to restrain it. And thus thinking, he raised
his eyes, and said: "O Lord, Thou didst command me to conquer this world-ruling city; hence
I have conquered it. Thou hast commanded me to found here Thy capital; hence I have founded
it. This is Thy city now, O Lord, and I go to Thee, for I have toiled greatly."

As he passed before temples, he said to them, "Ye will be temples of Christ." Looking at throngs
of people moving before his eyes, he said to them, "Your children will be servants of Christ";
and he advanced with the feeling that he had conquered, conscious of his service, conscious
of his strength, solaced,--great. The soldiers conducted him over the Pons Triumphalis, as
if giving involuntary testimony to his triumph, and they led him farther toward the Naumachia
and the Circus. The faithful from beyond the Tiber joined the procession; and such a throng
of people was formed that the centurion commanding the pretonians understood at last that he
was leading a high-priest surrounded by believers, and grew alarmed because of the small number
of soldiers. But no cry of indignation or rage was given out in the throng. Men's faces were
penetrated with the greatness of the moment, solemn and full of expectation. Some believers,
remembering that when the Lord died the earth opened from fright and the dead rose from their
graves, thought that now some evident signs would appear, after which the death of the Apostle
would not be forgotten for ages. Others said to themselves, "Perhaps the Lord will select the
hour of Peter's death to come from heaven as He promised, and judge the world." With this idea
they recommended themselves to the mercy of the Redeemer.

But round about there was calm. The hills seemed to be warming themselves, and resting in the
sun. The procession stopped at last between the Circus and the Vatican Hill. Soldiers began
now to dig a hole; others placed on the ground the cross, hammers, and nails, waiting till
all preparations were finished. The crowd, continuing quiet and attentive, knelt round about.

The Apostle, with his head in the sun-rays and golden light, turned for the last time toward
the city. At a distance lower down was seen the gleaming Tiber; beyond was the Campus Martius;
higher up, the Mausoleum of Augustus; below that, the gigantic baths just begun by Nero; still
lower, Pompey's theatre; and beyond them were visible in places, and in places hidden by other
buildings, the Septa Julia, a multitude of porticos, temples, columns, great edifices; and,
finally, far in the distance, hills covered with houses, a gigantic resort of people, the borders
of which vanished in the blue haze,--an abode of crime, but of power; of madness, but of order,--which
had become the head of the world, its oppressor, but its law and its peace, almighty, invincible,
eternal.

But Peter, surrounded by soldiers, looked at the city as a ruler and king looks at his inheritance.
And he said to it, "Thou art redeemed and mine!" And no one, not merely among the soldiers
digging the hole in which to plant the cross, but even among believers, could divine that standing
there among them was the true ruler of that moving life; that Cæsars would pass away, waves
of barbarians go by, and ages vanish, but that old man would be lord there unbrokenly.

The sun had sunk still more toward Ostia, and had become large and red. The whole western side
of the sky had begun to glow with immense brightness. The soldiers approached Peter to strip him.

But he, while praying, straightened himself all at once, and stretched his right hand high.
The executioners stopped, as if made timid by his posture; the faithful held the breath in
their breasts, thinking that he wished to say something, and silence unbroken followed.

But he, standing on the height, with his extended right hand made the sign of the cross, blessing
in the hour of death,--

Urbi et orbi! (the city and the world).

In that same wonderful evening another detachment of soldiers conducted along the Ostian Way
Paul of Tarsus toward a place called Aquæ Salviæ. And behind him also advanced a crowd of the
faithful whom he had converted; but when he recognized near acquaintances, he halted and conversed
with them, for, being a Roman citizen, the guard showed more respect to him. Beyond the gate
called Tergemina he met Plautilla, the daughter of the prefect Flavius Sabinus, and, seeing
her youthful face covered with tears, he said: "Plautilla, daughter of Eternal Salvation, depart
in peace. Only give me a veil with which to bind my eyes when I am going to the Lord." And
taking it, he advanced with a face as full of delight as that of a laborer who when he has
toiled the whole day successfully is returning home. His thoughts, like those of Peter, were
as calm and quiet as that evening sky. His eyes gazed with thoughtfulness upon the plain which
stretched out before him, and to the Alban Hills, immersed in light. He remembered his journeys,
his toils, his labor, the struggles in which he had conquered, the churches which he had founded
in all lands and beyond all seas; and he thought that he had earned his rest honestly, that
he had finished his work. He felt now that the seed which he had planted would not be blown
away by the wind of malice. He was leaving this life with the certainty that in the battle
which his truth had declared against the world it would conquer; and a mighty peace settled
down on his soul.

The road to the place of execution was long, and evening was coming. The mountains became purple,
and the bases of them went gradually into the shade. Flocks were returning home. Here and there
groups of slaves were walking with the tools of labor on their shoulders. Children, playing
on the road before houses, looked with curiosity at the passing soldiers. But in that evening,
in that transparent golden air, there were not only peace and lovingness, but a certain harmony,
which seemed to lift from earth to heaven. Paul felt this; and his heart was filled with delight
at the thought that to that harmony of the world he had added one note which had not been in
it hitherto, but without which the whole earth was like sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal.

He remembered how he had taught people love,--how he had told them that though they were to
give their property to the poor, though they knew all languages, all secrets, and all sciences,
they would be nothing without love, which is kind, enduring, which does not return evil, which
does not desire honor, suffers all things, believes all things, hopes all things, is patient
of all things.

And so his life had passed in teaching people this truth. And now he said in spirit: What power
can equal it, what can conquer it? Could Cæsar stop it, though he had twice as many legions
and twice as many cities, seas, lands, and nations?

And he went to his reward like a conqueror.

The detachment left the main road at last, and turned toward the east on a narrow path leading
to the Aquæ Salviæ. The red sun was lying now on the heather. The centurion stopped the soldiers
at the fountain, for the moment had come.

Paul placed Plautilla's veil on his arm, intending to bind his eyes with it; for the last time
he raised those eyes, full of unspeakable peace, toward the eternal light of the evening, and
prayed.

Chapter LXXI

ROME had gone mad for a long time, so that the world-conquering city seemed ready at last to
tear itself to pieces for want of leadership. Even before the last hour of the Apostles had
struck, Piso's conspiracy appeared; and then such merciless reaping of Rome's highest heads,
that even to those who saw divinity in Nero, he seemed at last a divinity of death. Mourning
fell on the city, terror took its lodgment in houses and in hearts, but porticos were crowned
with ivy and flowers, for it was not permitted to show sorrow for the dead. People waking in
the morning asked themselves whose turn would come next. The retinue of ghosts following Cæsar
increased every day.

Piso paid for the conspiracy with his head; after him followed Seneca, and Lucan, Fenius Rufus,
and Plautius Lateranus, and Flavius Scevinus, and Afranius Quinetianus, and the dissolute companion
of Cæsar's madnesses, Tullius Senecio, and Proculus, and Araricus, and Tugurinus, and Gratus,
and Silanus, and Proximus,--once devoted with his whole soul to Nero,--and Sulpicius Asper.
Some were destroyed by their own insignificance, some by fear, some by wealth, others by bravery.
Cæsar, astonished at the very number of the conspirators, covered the walls with soldiery and
held the city as if by siege, sending out daily centurions with sentences of death to suspected
houses. The condemned humiliated themselves in letters filled with flattery, thanking Cæsar
for his sentences, and leaving him a part of their property, so as to save the rest for their
children. It seemed, at last, that Nero was exceeding every measure on purpose to convince
himself of the degree in which men had grown abject, and how long they would endure bloody
rule. After the conspirators, their relatives were executed; then their friends, and even simple
acquaintances. Dwellers in lordly mansions built after the fire, when they went out on the
street, felt sure of seeing a whole row of funerals. Pompeius, Cornelius, Martialis, Flavius
Nepos, and Statius Domitius died because accused of lack of love for Cæsar; Novius Priscus,
as a friend of Seneca. Rufius Crispus was deprived of the right of fire and water because on
a time he had been the husband of Poppæa. The great Thrasea was ruined by his virtue; many
paid with their lives for noble origin; even Poppæa fell a victim to the momentary rage of Nero.

The Senate crouched before the dreadful ruler; it raised a temple in his honor, made an offering
in favor of his voice, crowned his statues, appointed priests to him as to a divinity. Senators,
trembling in their souls, went to the Palatine to magnify the song of the "Periodonices," and
go wild with him amid orgies of naked bodies, wine, and flowers.

But meanwhile from below, in the field soaked in blood and tears, rose the sowing of Peter,
stronger and stronger every moment.

Chapter LXXII

VINICIUS to PETRONIUS:

"We know, carissime, most of what is happening in Rome, and what we do not know is told us
in thy letters. When one casts a stone in the water, the wave goes farther and farther in a
circle; so the wave of madness and malice has come from the Palatine to us. On the road to
Greece, Carinas was sent hither by Cæsar, who plundered cities and temples to fill the empty
treasury. At the price of the sweat and tears of people, he is building the 'golden house'
in Rome. It is possible that the world has not seen such a house, but it has not seen such
injustice. Thou knowest Carinas. Chilo was like him till he redeemed his life with death. But
to the towns lying nearer us his men have not come yet, perhaps because there are no temples
or treasures in them. Thou askest if we are out of danger. I answer that we are out of mind,
and let that suffice for an answer. At this moment, from the portico under which I write, I
see our calm bay, and on it Ursus in a boat, letting down a net in the clear water. My wife
is spinning red wool near me, and in the gardens, under the shade of almond-trees, our slaves
are singing. Oh, what calm carissime, and what a forgetfulness of former fear and suffering!
But it is not the Parcæ as thou writest, who spin out our lives so agreeably; it is Christ
who is blessing us, our beloved God and Saviour. We know tears and sorrow, for our religion
teaches us to weep over the misfortunes of others; but in these tears is a consolation unknown
to thee; for whenever the time of our life is ended, we shall find all those dear ones who
perished and who are perishing yet for God's truth. For us Peter and Paul are not dead; they
are merely born into glory. Our souls see them, and when our eyes weep our hearts are glad
with their joy. Oh, yes, my dear friend, we are happy with a happiness which nothing can destroy,
since death, which for thee is the end of everything, is for us only a passage into superior rest.

"And so days and months pass here in calmness of heart. Our servants and slaves believe, as
we do, in Christ, and that He enjoins love; hence we love one another. Frequently, when the
sun has gone down, or when the moon is shining in the water, Lygia and I talk of past times,
which seem a dream to us; but when I think how that dear head was near torture and death, I
magnify my Lord with my whole soul, for out of those hands He alone could wrest her, save her
from the arena, and return her to me forever. O Petronius, thou hast seen what endurance and
comfort that religion gives in misfortune, how much patience and courage before death; so come
and see how much happiness it gives in ordinary, common days of life. People thus far did not
know a God whom man could love, hence they did not love one another; and from that came their
misfortune, for as light comes from the sun, so does happiness come from love. Neither lawgivers
nor philosophers taught this truth, and it did not exist in Greece or Rome; and when I say,
not in Rome, that means the whole world. The dry and cold teaching of the Stoics, to which
virtuous people rally, tempers the heart as a sword is tempered, but it makes it indifferent
rather than better. Though why do I write this to thee, who hast learned more, and hast more
understanding than I have? Thou wert acquainted with Paul of Tarsus, and more than once didst
converse long with him; hence thou knowest better if in comparison with the truth which he
taught all the teachings of philosophers and rhetors are not a vain and empty jingle of words
without meaning. Thou rememberest the question which he put thee: 'But if Cæsar were a Christian,
would ye not all feel safer, surer of possessing that which ye possess, free of alarm, and
sure of to-morrow?' Thou didst say to me that our teaching was an enemy of life; and I answer
thee now, that, if from the beginning of this letter I had been repeating only the three words,
'I am happy!' I could not have expressed my happiness to thee. To this thou wilt answer, that
my happiness is Lygia. True, my friend. Because I love her immortal soul, and because we both
love each other in Christ; for such love there is no separation, no deceit, no change, no old
age, no death. For, when youth and beauty pass, when our bodies wither and death comes, love
will remain, for the spirit remains. Before my eyes were open to the light I was ready to burn
my own house even, for Lygia's sake; but now I tell thee that I did not love her, for it was
Christ who first taught me to love. In Him is the source of peace and happiness. It is not
I who say this, but reality itself. Compare thy own luxury, my friend, lined with alarm, thy
delights, not sure of a morrow, thy orgies, with the lives of Christians, and thou wilt find
a ready answer. But, to compare better, come to our mountains with the odor of thyme, to our
shady olive groves on our shores lined with ivy. A peace is waiting for thee, such as thou
hast not known for a long time, and hearts that love thee sincerely. Thou, having a noble soul
and a good one, shouldst be happy. Thy quick mind can recognize the truth, and knowing it thou
wilt love it. To be its enemy, like Cæsar and Tigellinus, is possible, but indifferent to it
no one can be. O my Petronius, Lygia and I are comforting ourselves with the hope of seeing
thee soon. Be well, be happy, and come to us."

Petronius received this letter in Cumæ, whither he had gone with other Augustians who were
following Cæsar. His struggle of long years with Tigellinus was nearing its end. Petronius
knew already that he must fall in that struggle, and he understood why. As Cæsar fell lower
daily to the role of a comedian, a buffoon, and a charioteer; as he sank deeper in a sickly,
foul, and coarse dissipation,--the exquisite arbiter became a mere burden to him. Even when
Petronius was silent, Nero saw blame in his silence; when the arbiter praised, he saw ridicule.
The brilliant patrician annoyed his self-love and roused his envy. His wealth and splendid
works of art had become an object of desire both to the ruler and the all-powerful minister.
Petronius was spared so far in view of the journey to Achæa, in which his taste, his knowledge
of everything Greek, might be useful. But gradually Tigellinus explained to Cæsar that Carinas
surpassed him in taste and knowledge, and would be better able to arrange in Achæa games, receptions,
and triumphs. From that moment Petronius was lost. There was not courage to send him his sentence
in Rome. Cæsar and Tigellinus remembered that that apparently effeminate and æsthetic person,
who made "day out of night," and was occupied only in luxury, art, and feasts, had shown amazing
industry and energy, when proconsul in Bithynia and later when consul in the capital. They
considered him capable of anything, and it was known that in Rome he possessed not only the
love of the people, but even of the pretorians. None of Cæsar's confidants could foresee how
Petronius might act in a given case; it seemed wiser, therefore, to entice him out of the city,
and reach him in a province.

With this object he received an invitation to go to Cumæ with other Augustians. He went, though
suspecting the ambush, perhaps so as not to appear in open opposition, perhaps to show once
more a joyful face devoid of every care to Cæsar and the Augustians, and to gain a last victory
before death over Tigellinus.

Meanwhile the latter accused him of friendship with the Senator Scevinus, who was the soul
of Piso's conspiracy. The people of Petronius, left in Rome, were imprisoned; his house was
surrounded by pretorian guards. When he learned this, he showed neither alarm nor concern,
and with a smile said to Augustians whom he received in his own splendid villa in Cumæ,--

"Ahenobarbus does not like direct questions; hence ye will see his confusion when I ask him
if it was he who gave command to imprison my 'familia' in the capital."

Then he invited them to a feast "before the longer journey," and he had just made preparations
for it when the letter from Vinicius came.

When he received this letter, Petronius grew somewhat thoughtful, but after a time his face
regained its usual composure, and that same evening he answered as follows:--

"I rejoice at your happiness and admire your hearts, for I had not thought that two lovers
could remember a third person who was far away. Ye have not only not forgotten me, but ye wish
to persuade me to go to Sicily, so that ye may share with me your bread and your Christ, who,
as thou writest, has given you happiness so bountifully.

"If that be true, honor Him. To my thinking, however, Ursus had something to do with saving
Lygia, and the Roman people also had a little to do with it. But since thy belief is that Christ
did the work, I will not contradict. Spare no offerings to Him. Prometheus also sacrificed
himself for man; but, alas! Prometheus is an invention of the poets apparently, while people
worthy of credit have told me that they saw Christ with their own eyes. I agree with thee that
He is the most worthy of the gods.

"I remember the question by Paul of Tarsus, and I think that if Ahenobarbus lived according
to Christ's teaching I might have time to visit you in Sicily. In that case we could converse,
in the shade of trees and near fountains, of all the gods and all the truths discussed by Greek
philosophers at any time. To-day I must give thee a brief answer.

"I care for two philosophers only: Pyrrho and Anacreon. I am ready to sell the rest to thee
cheaply, with all the Greek and Roman Stoics. Truth, Vinicius, dwells somewhere so high that
the gods themselves cannot see it from the top of Olympus. To thee, carissime, thy Olympus
seems higher still, and, standing there, thou callest to me, 'Come, thou wilt see such sights
as thou hast not seen yet!' I might. But I answer, 'I have not feet for the journey.' And if
thou read this letter to the end, thou wilt acknowledge, I think, that I am right.

"No, happy husband of the Aurora princess! thy religion is not for me. Am I to love the Bithynians
who carry my litter, the Egyptians who heat my bath? Am I to love Ahenobarbus and Tigellinus?
I swear by the white knees of the Graces, that even if I wished to love them I could not. In
Rome there are a hundred thousand persons at least who have either crooked shoulders, or big
knees, or thin thighs, or staring eyes, or heads that are too large. Dost thou command me to
love these too? Where am I to find the love, since it is not in my heart? And if thy God desires
me to love such persons, why in His all might did He not give them the forms of Niobe's children,
for example, which thou hast seen on the Palatine? Whoso loves beauty is unable for that very
reason to love deformity. One may not believe in our gods, but it is possible to love them,
as Phidias, Praxiteles, Miron, Skopas, and Lysias loved.

"Should I wish to go whither thou wouldst lead me, I could not. But since I do not wish, I
am doubly unable. Thou believest, like Paul of Tarsus, that on the other side of the Styx thou
wilt see thy Christ in certain Elysian fields. Let Him tell thee then Himself whether He would
receive me with my gems, my Myrrhene vase, my books published by Sozius, and my golden-haired
Eunice. I laugh at this thought; for Paul of Tarsus told me that for Christ's sake one must
give up wreaths of roses, feasts, and luxury. It is true that he promised me other happiness,
but I answered that I was too old for new happiness, that my eyes would be delighted always
with roses, and that the odor of violets is dearer to me than stench from my foul neighbor
of the Subura.

"These are reasons why thy happiness is not for me. But there is one reason more, which I have
reserved for the last: Thanatos summons me. For thee the light of life is beginning; but my
sun has set, and twilight is embracing my head. In other words, I must die, carissime.

"It is not worth while to talk long of this. It had to end thus. Thou, who knowest Ahenobarbus,
wilt understand the position easily. Tigellinus has conquered, or rather my victories have
touched their end. I have lived as I wished, and I will die as pleases me.

"Do not take this to heart. No God has promised me immortality; hence no surprise meets me.
At the same time thou art mistaken, Vinicius, in asserting that only thy God teaches man to
die calmly. No. Our world knew, before thou wert born, that when the last cup was drained,
it was time to go,--time to rest,--and it knows yet how to do that with calmness. Plato declares
that virtue is music, that the life of a sage is harmony. If that be true, I shall die as I
have lived,--virtuously.

"I should like to take farewell of thy godlike wife in the words with which on a time I greeted
her in the house of Aulus, 'Very many persons have I seen, but thy equal I know not.'

"If the soul is more than what Pyrrho thinks, mine will fly to thee and Lygia, on its way to
the edge of the ocean, and will alight at your house in the form of a butterfly or, as the
Egyptians believe, in the form of a sparrowhawk. Otherwise I cannot come.

"Meanwhile let Sicily replace for you the gardens of Hesperides; may the goddesses of the fields,
woods, and fountains scatter flowers on your path, and may white doves build their nests on
every acanthus of the columns of your house."

Chapter LXXIII

PETRONIUS was not mistaken. Two days later young Nerva, who had always been friendly and devoted,
sent his freedman to Cumæ with news of what was happening at the court of Cæsar.

The death of Petronius had been determined. On the morning of the following day they intended
to send him a centurion, with the order to stop at Cumæ, and wait there for further instructions;
the next messenger, to follow a few days later, was to bring the death sentence.

Petronius heard the news with unruffled calmness.

"Thou wilt take to thy lord," said he, "one of my vases; say from me that I thank him with
my whole soul, for now I am able to anticipate the sentence."

And all at once he began to laugh, like a man who has came upon a perfect thought, and rejoices
in advance at its fulfilment.

That same afternoon his slaves rushed about, inviting the Augustians, who were staying in Cumæ,
and all the ladies, to a magnificent banquet at the villa of the arbiter.

He wrote that afternoon in the library; next he took a bath, after which he commanded the vestiplicæ
to arrange his dress. Brilliant and stately as one of the gods, he went to the triclinium,
to cast the eye of a critic on the preparations, and then to the gardens, where youths and
Grecian maidens from the islands were weaving wreaths of roses for the evening.

Not the least care was visible on his face. The servants only knew that the feast would be
something uncommon, for he had issued a command to give unusual rewards to those with whom
he was satisfied, and some slight blows to all whose work should not please him, or who had
deserved blame or punishment earlier. To the cithara players and the singers he had ordered
beforehand liberal pay. At last, sitting in the garden under a beech, through whose leaves
the sun-rays marked the earth with bright spots, he called Eunice.

She came, dressed in white, with a sprig of myrtle in her hair, beautiful as one of the Graces.
He seated her at his side, and, touching her temple gently with his fingers, he gazed at her
with that admiration with which a critic gazes at a statue from the chisel of a master.

"Eunice," asked he, "dost thou know that thou art not a slave this long time?"

She raised to him her calm eyes, as blue as the sky, and denied with a motion of her head.

"I am thine always," said she.

"But perhaps thou knowest not," continued Petronius, "that the villa, and those slaves twining
wreaths here, and all which is in the villa, with the fields and the herds, are thine henceforward."

Eunice, when she heard this, drew away from him quickly, and asked in a voice filled with sudden
fear,--

"Why dost thou tell me this?"

Then she approached again, and looked at him, blinking with amazement. After a while her face
became as pale as linen. He smiled, and said only one word,--

"So!"

A moment of silence followed; merely a slight breeze moved the leaves of the beech.

Petronius might have thought that before him was a statue cut from white marble.

"Eunice," said he, "I wish to die calmly."

And the maiden, looking at him with a heart-rending smile, whispered,--

"I hear thee."

In the evening the guests, who had been at feasts given by Petronius previously, and knew that
in comparison with them even Cæsar's banquets seemed tiresome and barbarous, began to arrive
in numbers. To no one did it occur, even, that that was to be the last "symposium." Many knew,
it is true, that the clouds of Cæsar's anger were hanging over the exquisite arbiter; but that
had happened so often, and Petronius had been able so often to scatter them by some dexterous
act or by a single bold word, that no one thought really that serious danger threatened him.
His glad face and usual smile, free of care, confirmed all, to the last man, in that opinion.
The beautiful Eunice, to whom he had declared his wish to die calmly, and for whom every word
of his was like an utterance of fate, had in her features a perfect calmness, and in her eyes
a kind of wonderful radiance, which might have been considered delight. At the door of the
triclinium, youths with hair in golden nets put wreaths of roses on the heads of the guests,
warning them, as the custom was, to pass the threshold right foot foremost. In the hall there
was a slight odor of violets; the lamps burned in Alexandrian glass of various colors. At the
couches stood Grecian maidens, whose office it was to moisten the feet of guests with perfumes.
At the walls cithara players and Athenian choristers were waiting for the signal of their leader.

The table service gleamed with splendor, but that splendor did not offend or oppress; it seemed
a natural development. Joyousness and freedom spread through the hall with the odor of violets.
The guests as they entered felt that neither threat nor constraint was hanging over them, as
in Cæsar's house, where a man might forfeit his life for praises not sufficiently great or
sufficiently apposite. At sight of the lamps, the goblets entwined with ivy, the wine cooling
on banks of snow, and the exquisite dishes, the hearts of the guests became joyous. Conversation
of various kinds began to buzz, as bees buzz on an apple tree in blossom. At moments it was
interrupted by an outburst of glad laughter, at moments by murmurs of applause, at moments
by a kiss placed too loudly on some white shoulder.

The guests, while drinking wine, spilled from their goblets a few drops to the immortal gods,
to gain their protection, and their favor for the host. It mattered not that many of them had
no belief in the gods. Custom and superstition prescribed it. Petronius, inclining near Eunice,
talked of Rome, of the latest divorces, of love affairs, of the races, of Spiculus, who had
become famous recently in the arena, and of the latest books in the shops of Atractus and the
Sozii. When he spilled wine, he said that he spilled it only in honor of the Lady of Cyprus,
the most ancient divinity and the greatest, the only immortal, enduring, and ruling one.

His conversation was like sunlight which lights up some new object every instant, or like the
summer breeze which stirs flowers in a garden. At last he gave a signal to the leader of the
music, and at that signal the citharæ began to sound lightly, and youthful voices accompanied.
Then maidens from Kos, the birthplace of Eunice, danced, and showed their rosy forms through
robes of gauze. Finally, an Egyptian soothsayer told the guests their future from the movement
of rainbow colors in a vessel of crystal.

When they had enough of these amusements, Petronius rose somewhat on his Syrian cushion, and
said with hesitation,--

"Pardon me, friends, for asking a favor at a feast. Will each man accept as a gift that goblet
from which he first shook wine in honor of the gods and to my prosperity?"

The goblets of Petronius were gleaming in gold, precious stones, and the carving of artists;
hence, though gift giving was common in Rome, delight filled every heart. Some thanked him
loudly: others said that Jove had never honored gods with such gifts in Olympus; finally, there
were some who refused to accept, since the gifts surpassed common estimate.

But he raised aloft the Myrrhene vase, which resembled a rainbow in brilliancy, and was simply
beyond price.

"This," said he, "is the one out of which I poured in honor of the Lady of Cyprus. The lips
of no man may touch it henceforth, and no hand may ever pour from it in honor of another divinity."

He cast the precious vessel to the pavement, which was covered with lily-colored saffron flowers;
and when it was broken into small pieces, he said, seeing around him astonished faces,--

"My dear friends, be glad and not astonished. Old age and weakness are sad attendants in the
last years of life. But I will give you a good example and good advice: Ye have the power,
as ye see, not to wait for old age; ye can depart before it comes, as I do."

"What dost thou wish?" asked a number of voices, with alarm.

"I wish to rejoice, to drink wine, to hear music, to look on those divine forms which ye see
around me, and fall asleep with a garlanded head. I have taken farewell of Cæsar, and do ye
wish to hear what I wrote him at parting?"

He took from beneath the purple cushion a paper, and read as follows:--

"I know, O Cæsar, that thou art awaiting my arrival with impatience, that thy true heart of
a friend is yearning day and night for me. I know that thou art ready to cover me with gifts,
make me prefect of the pretorian guards, and command Tigellinus to be that which the gods made
him, a mule-driver in those lands which thou didst inherit after poisoning Domitius. Pardon
me, however, for I swear to thee by Hades, and by the shades of thy mother, thy wife, thy brother,
and Seneca, that I cannot go to thee. Life is a great treasure. I have taken the most precious
jewels from that treasure, but in life there are many things which I cannot endure any longer.
Do not suppose, I pray, that I am offended because thou didst kill thy mother, thy wife, and
thy brother; that thou didst burn Rome and send to Erebus all the honest men in thy dominions.
No, grandson of Chronos. Death is the inheritance of man; from thee other deeds could not have
been expected. But to destroy one's ear for whole years with thy poetry, to see thy belly of
a Domitius on slim legs whirled about in Pyrrhic dance; to hear thy music, thy declamation,
thy doggerel verses, wretched poet of the suburbs,--is a thing surpassing my power, and it
has roused in me the wish to die. Rome stuffs its ears when it hears thee; the world reviles
thee. I can blush for thee no longer, and I have no wish to do so. The howls of Cerberus, though
resembling thy music, will be less offensive to me, for I have never been the friend of Cerberus,
and I need not be ashamed of his howling. Farewell, but make no music; commit murder, but write
no verses; poison people, but dance not; be an incendiary, but play not on a cithara. This
is the wish and the last friendly counsel sent thee by the--Arbiter Elegantiæ."

The guests were terrified, for they knew that the loss of dominion would have been less cruel
to Nero than this blow. They understood, too, that the man who had written that paper must
die; and at the same time pale fear flew over them because they had heard such a paper.

But Petronius laughed with sincere and gladsome joy, as if it were a question of the most innocent
joke; then he cast his eyes on all present, and said,--

"Be joyous, and drive away fear. No one need boast that he heard this letter. I will boast
of it only to Charon when I am crossing in the boat with him."

He beckoned then to the Greek physician, and stretched out his arm. The skilled Greek in the
twinkle of an eye opened the vein at the bend of the arm. Blood spurted on the cushion, and
covered Eunice, who, supporting the head of Petronius, bent over him and said,--

"Didst thou think that I would leave thee? If the gods gave me immortality, and Cæsar gave
me power over the earth, I would follow thee still."

Petronius smiled, raised himself a little, touched her lips with his, and said,--

"Come with me."

She stretched her rosy arm to the physician, and after a while her blood began to mingle and
be lost in his blood.

Then he gave a signal to the leader of the music, and again the voices and cithariæ were heard.
They sang "Harmodius"; next the song of Anacreon resounded,--that song in which he complained
that on a time he had found Aphrodite's boy chilled and weeping under trees; that he brought
him in, warmed him, dried his wings, and the ungrateful child pierced his heart with an arrow,--from
that moment peace had deserted the poet.

Petronius and Eunice, resting against each other, beautiful as two divinities, listened, smiling
and growing pale. At the end of the song Petronius gave directions to serve more wine and food;
then he conversed with the guests sitting near him of trifling but pleasant things, such as
are mentioned usually at feasts. Finally, he called to the Greek to bind his arm for a moment;
for he said that sleep was tormenting him, and he wanted to yield himself to Hypnos before
Thanatos put him to sleep forever.

In fact, he fell asleep. When he woke, the head of Eunice was lying on his breast like a white
flower. He placed it on the pillow to look at it once more. After that his veins were opened again.

At his signal the singers raised the song of Anacreon anew, and the citharæ accompanied them
so softly as not to drown a word. Petronius grew paler and paler; but when the last sound had
ceased, he turned to his guests again and said,

"Friends, confess that with us perishes--"

But he had not power to finish; his arm with its last movement embraced Eunice, his head fell
on the pillow, and he died.

The guests looking at those two white forms, which resembled two wonderful statues, understood
well that with them perished all that was left to their world at that time,--poetry and beauty.

EPILOGUE

AT first the revolt of the Gallic legions under Vindex did not seem very serious. Cæsar was
only in his thirty-first year, and no one was bold enough to hope that the world could be freed
so soon from the nightmare which was stifling it. Men remembered that revolts had occurred
more than once among the legions,--they had occurred in previous reigns,--revolts, however,
which passed without involving a change of government; as during the reign of Tiberius, Drusus
put down the revolt of the Pannonian legions. "Who," said the people, "can take the government
after Nero, since all the descendants of the divine Augustus have perished?" Others, looking
at the Colossus, imagined him a Hercules, and thought that no force could break such power.
There were those even who since he went to Achæa were sorry for him, because Helius and Polythetes,
to whom he left the government of Rome and Italy, governed more murderously than he had.

No one was sure of life or property. Law ceased to protect. Human dignity and virtue had perished,
family bonds existed no longer, and degraded hearts did not even dare to admit hope. From Greece
came accounts of the incomparable triumphs of Cæsar, of the thousands of crowns which he had
won, the thousands of competitors whom he had vanquished. The world seemed to be one orgy of
buffoonery and blood; but at the same time the opinion was fixed that virtue and deeds of dignity
had ceased, that the time of dancing and music, of profligacy, of blood, had come, and that
life must flow on for the future in that way. Cæsar himself, to whom rebellion opened the road
to new robberies, was not concerned much about the revolt of the legions and Vindex; he even
expressed his delight on that subject frequently. He did not wish to leave Achæa even; and
only when Helius informed him that further delay might cause the loss of dominion did he move
to Naples.

There he played and sang, neglecting news of events of growing danger. In vain did Tigellinus
explain to him that former rebellions of legions had no leaders, while at the head of affairs
this time was a man descended from the ancient kings of Gaul and Aquitania, a famous and tried
soldier. "Here," answered Nero, "the Greeks listen to me,--the Greeks, who alone know how to
listen, and who alone are worthy of my song." He said that his first duty was art and glory.
But when at last the news came that Vindex had proclaimed him a wretched artist, he sprang
up and moved toward Rome. The wounds inflicted by Petronius, and healed by his stay in Greece,
opened in his heart anew, and he wished to seek retribution from the Senate for such unheard-of
injustice.

On the road he saw a group cast in bronze, representing a Gallic warrior as overcome by a Roman
knight; he considered that a good omen, and thenceforward, if he mentioned the rebellious legions
and Vindex, it was only to ridicule them. His entrance to the city surpassed all that had been
witnessed earlier. He entered in the chariot used by Augustus in his triumph. One arch of the
Circus was destroyed to give a road to the procession. The Senate, knights, and innumerable
throngs of people went forth to meet him. The walls trembled from shouts of "Hail, Augustus!
Hail, Hercules! Hail, divinity, the incomparable, the Olympian, the Pythian, the immortal!"
Behind him were borne the crowns, the names of cities in which he had triumphed; and on tablets
were inscribed the names of the masters whom he had vanquished. Nero himself was intoxicated
with delight, and with emotion he asked the Augustians who stood around him, "What was the
triumph of Julius compared with this?" The idea that any mortal should dare to raise a hand
on such a demigod did not enter his head. He felt himself really Olympian, and therefore safe.
The excitement and the madness of the crowd roused his own madness. In fact, it might seem
in the day of that triumph that not merely Cæsar and the city, but the world, had lost its senses.

Through the flowers and the piles of wreaths no one could see the precipice. Still that same
evening columns and walls of temples were covered with inscriptions, describing Nero's crimes,
threatening him with coming vengeance, and ridiculing him as an artist. From mouth to mouth
went the phrase, "He sang till he roused the Gauls." Alarming news made the rounds of the city,
and reached enormous measures. Alarm seized the Augustians. People, uncertain of the future,
dazed not express hopes or wishes; they hardly dared to feel or think.

But he went on living only in the theatre and music. Instruments newly invented occupied him,
and a new water-organ, of which trials were made on the Palatine. With childish mind, incapable
of plan or action, he imagined that he could ward off danger by promises of spectacles and
theatrical exhibitions reaching far into the future, Persons nearest him, seeing that instead
of providing means and an army, he was merely searching for expressions to depict the danger
graphically, began to lose their heads. Others thought that he was simply deafening himself
and others with quotations, while in his soul he was alarmed and terrified. In fact, his acts
became feverish. Every day a thousand new plans flew through his head. At times he sprang up
to rush out against danger; gave command to pack up his lutes and citharæ, to arm the young
slave women as Amazons, and lead the legions to the East. Again he thought to finish the rebellion
of the Gallic legions, not with war, but with song; and his soul laughed at the spectacle which
was to follow his conquest of the soldiers by song. The legionaries would surround him with
tears in their eyes; he would sing to them an epinicium, after which the golden epoch would
begin for him and for Rome. At one time he called for blood; at another he declared that he
would be satisfied with governing in Egypt. He recalled the prediction which promised him lordship
in Jerusalem, and he was moved by the thought that as a wandering minstrel he would earn his
daily bread,--that cities and countries would honor in him, not Cæsar, the lord of the earth,
but a poet whose like the world had not produced before. And so he struggled, raged, played,
sang, changed his plan, changed his quotations, changed his life and the world into a dream
absurd, fantastic, dreadful, into an uproarious hunt composed of unnatural expressions, bad
verses, groans, tears, and blood; but meanwhile the cloud in the west was increasing and thickening
every day. The measure was exceeded; the insane comedy was nearing its end.

When news that Galba and Spain had joined the uprising came to his ears, he fell into rage
and madness. He broke goblets, overturned the table at a feast, and issued orders which neither
Helius nor Tigeliinus himself dared to execute. To kill Gauls resident in Rome, fire the city
a second time, let out the wild beasts, and transfer the capital to Alexandria seemed to him
great, astonishing, and easy. But the days of his dominion had passed, and even those who shared
in his former crimes began to look on him as a madman.

The death of Vindex, and disagreement in the revolting legions seemed, however, to turn the
scale to his side. Again new feasts, new triumphs, and new sentences were issued in Rome, till
a certain night when a messenger rushed up on a foaming horse, with the news that in the city
itself the soldiers had raised the standard of revolt, and proclaimed Galba Cæsar.

Nero was asleep when the messenger came; but when he woke he called in vain for the night-guard,
which watched at the entrance to his chambers. The palace was empty. Slaves were plundering
in the most distant corners that which could be taken most quickly. But the sight of Nero frightened
them; he wandered alone through the palace, filling it with cries of despair and fear.

At last his freedmen, Phaon, Sporus, and Epaphroditus, came to his rescue. They wished him
to flee, and said that there was no time to be lost; but he deceived himself still. If he should
dress in mourning and speak to the Senate, would it resist his prayers and eloquence? If he
should use all his eloquence, his rhetoric and skill of an actor, would any one on earth have
power to resist him? Would they not give him even the prefecture of Egypt?

The freedmen, accustomed to flatter, had not the boldness yet to refuse him directly; they
only warned him that before he could reach the Forum the people would tear him to pieces, and
declared that if he did not mount his horse immediately, they too would desert him.

Phaon offered refuge in his villa outside the Nomentan Gate. After a while they mounted horses,
and, covering Nero's head with a mantle, they galloped off toward the edge of the city. The
night was growing pale. But on the streets there was a movement which showed the exceptional
nature of the time. Soldiers, now singly and now in small groups, were scattered through the
city. Not far from the camp Cæsar's horse sprang aside suddenly at sight of a corpse. The mantle
slipped from his head; a soldier recognized Nero, and, confused by the unexpected meeting,
gave the military salute. While passing the pretorian camp, they heard thundering shouts in
honor of Galba. Nero understood at last that the hour of death was near. Terror and reproaches
of conscience seized him. He declared that he saw darkness in front of him in the form of a
black cloud. From that cloud came forth faces in which he saw his mother, his wife, and his
brother. His teeth were chattering from fright; still his soul of a comedian found a kind of
charm in the horror of the moment. To be absolute lord of the earth and lose all things, seemed
to him the height of tragedy; and faithful to himself, he played the first role to the end.
A fever for quotations took possession of him, and a passionate wish that those present should
preserve them for posterity. At moments he said that he wished to die, and called for Spiculus,
the most skilled of all gladiators in killing. At moments he declaimed, "Mother, wife, father,
call me to death!" Flashes of hope rose in him, however, from time to time,--hope vain and
childish. He knew that he was going to death, and still he did not believe it.

They found the Nomentan Gate open. Going farther, they passed near Ostrianum, where Peter had
taught and baptized. At daybreak they reached Phaon's villa.

There the freedmen hid from him no longer the fact that it was time to die. He gave command
then to dig a grave, and lay on the ground so that they might take accurate measurement. At
sight of the earth thrown up, however, terror seized him. His fat face became pale, and on
his forehead sweat stood like drops of dew in the morning. He delayed. In a voice at once abject
and theatrical, he declared that the hour had not come yet; then he began again to quote. At
last he begged them to burn his body. "What an artist is perishing!" repeated he, as if in
amazement.

Meanwhile Phaon's messenger arrived with the announcement that the Senate had issued the sentence
that the "parricide" was to be punished according to ancient custom.

"What is the ancient custom?" asked Nero, with whitened lips.

"They will fix thy neck in a fork, flog thee to death, and hurl thy body into the Tiber," answered
Epaphroditus, abruptly.

Nero drew aside the robe from his breast.

"It is time, then!" said he, looking into the sky. And he repeated once more, "What an artist
is perishing!"

At that moment the tramp of a horse was heard. That was the centurion coming with soldiers
for the head of Ahenobarbus.

"Hurry!" cried the freedmen.

Nero placed the knife to his neck, but pushed it only timidly. It was clear that he would never
have courage to thrust it in. Epaphroditus pushed his hand suddenly,--the knife sank to the
handle. Nero's eyes turned in his head, terrible, immense, frightened.

"I bring thee life!" cried the centurion, entering.

"Too late!" said Nero, with a hoarse voice; then he added,--

"Here is faithfulness!"

In a twinkle death seized his head. Blood from his heavy neck gushed in a dark stream on the
flowers of the garden. His legs kicked the ground, and he died.

On the morrow the faithful Acte wrapped his body in costly stuffs, and burned him on a pile
filled with perfumes.

And so Nero passed, as a whirlwind, as a storm, as a fire, as war or death passes; but the
basilica of Peter rules till now, from the Vatican heights, the city, and the world.

Near the ancient Porta Capena stands to this day a little chapel with the inscription, somewhat
worn: Quo Vadis, Domine?