"A farmer raised one thousand bushels of popcorn and stored it in a barn. The barn caught fire,
and the corn began to pop and filled a ten-acre field. An old mare in a neighboring pasture
had defective eyesight, saw the corn, thought it was snow, and lay down and froze to death."

As to serious farming, and how it pays in this part of the State, I have clipped several paragraphs
from the papers, and will give three as samples of the whole. I desire also to communicate
the cheerful news that there are no potato bugs to make life seem too hard to bear.

"RAISED ON TWENTY ACRES.

"How much land do I need in California? is a question often asked. The answer is readily made:
as much as you can profitably and economically work. A gentleman has made the following exhibit
in the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce: 'Raised on twenty acres of ground, 2500 boxes of oranges,
1500 boxes of lemons, 37,000 pounds of grapes, 2000 pounds of pears, 35,000 pounds of apples,
15,000 pounds of berries, black and red, 1000 pounds of English walnuts. Besides nectarines,
apricots, plums, three crops of potatoes, 500 pounds of crab-apples, and one acre of alfalfa
kept for cows, and flowers of different varieties. These oranges are worth on the trees $3500,
the lemons $3000, the grapes $370, pears $30, apples $75, berries $30, walnuts $80. The total
will be $7085, and all the products not counted. That surely is more than the crops of a half
section in Kansas or Illinois will sell for.' Every one may not do as well, but they can approach
it, and if they do, twenty acres is quite enough."

"PROFITS OF BERRY CULTURE.

"Speaking of the profits of growing strawberries in Southern California, the Covina Argus gives
some interesting facts and figures. That paper says: 'One of the growers stated to us that
last year he picked and shipped from three acres the enormous amount of fourteen tons. These
berries brought as high as fifteen cents and as low as four cents per pound, but netted an
average of about eight cents per pound, or $2240. That would make an acre of berries produce
a cash return of $746.66⅔, which, considering the shortness of the berry season, from four
to five months, is a pretty good income on the money invested.'"

"PROFIT IN ALMONDS.

"M. Treat, an authority on almond culture, has contributed the following to the Woodland Mail:
'This year from 190 California paper-shell almond trees (five years old), covering two and
five-sevenths acres, I gathered 3502 pounds of nuts, which sold in Chicago at twenty-two cents
a pound. This is $316.82 to the acre--a little over $4 to the tree--18½ pounds to the tree.
When these same trees were four years old they averaged about three pounds, and in eight years
they will double what they bore at five. They will at eight years bear full 40 pounds to the
tree. At twelve years they will bear fully 100 pounds to the tree without the least exertion.
This is at seventy trees to the acre, and reckoning at twenty-two cents to the pound, $1540
per acre. Now these are nothing but plain, bare, raw facts.

"'Almond trees live and do well for fifty years, and in some places in Europe when fifteen
years old bear from 150 to 200 pounds per tree.'"

At Saugus Junction Mr. Tolfree has established one of his famous restaurants, where I can conscientiously
urge you to get out and dine. Every course is delicious.

Ventura County is partially devoted to the culture of Beans. I use a capital because Beans
represent Culture, or are associated with it in one State at least, and the very meaning of
the word is property, money, from the French biens--goods. I wonder how many of my Boston friends
knew that! I did not until a friend showed it to me in Brewer's phrase-book, where I also learned
that beans played an important part in the politics of the Greeks, being used in voting by
ballot. I always had a liking for beans, but I have a profound respect for them since viewing
the largest Lima Bean Ranch in the world, belonging to my friend Mr. D. W. Thompson, of Santa
Barbara. There are 2500 acres of rich land, level as a house floor, bounded by a line of trees
on one side and the ocean on the other; 1600 acres are planted to beans, and the profits are
nearly $60,000 yearly. Thirty-six tons of beans were used this year in planting. This could
not be done in the East, but beans do not need to be "poled" here, as, influenced by the dreamy
atmosphere, they show no desire to climb, but just lie lazily along the ground. Still, there
is a deal of work connected with the business. Dairying, building, horseshoeing, repairing
of machinery, are all done on the place. "As soon as the spring rains are over, eleven gang
ploughs, four ploughs to a gang, each gang drawn by six horses, plough about seven acres per
day." Then the harrowing and planting in the same big way. During the entire summer these vines
grow without a drop of water, freshened daily by the heavy sea fogs. Harvesting and threshing
all done by machinery. The steam thresher would amaze some of our overworked, land-poor farmers.
About one hundred and twenty carloads of beans are annually shipped from this ranch, reserving
the tons needed for seed.

And all along the way fine ranches are seen, where beans are seen growing alone, or planted
between the long even rows of fruit trees. Mr. Thompson also owns a large hog ranch. But dear
me! We are now skirting the beautiful ocean curve which leads to the "Channel City"--so near
the beach that the waves almost touch the rails and the dash of the surf seems under the cars.
See how fine a situation! The coast line taking a sudden and most fortunate turn, the trend
of mountain range and plain land is east and west, instead of north and south. Sheltered by
mountains and mesas, and nestled in the green foot-hills, with the ocean breeze tempered by
a chain of islands, making a serene harbor, Santa Barbara has much to make it the rival of
San Diego and Pasadena. Pork and beans must now give way to legend and romance, martyred virgin,
holy monks, untutored "neophytes," handsome Castilians, dashing Mexicans, energetic pioneers,
the old Spanish, the imported Chinese, the eastern element now thoroughly at home, and the
inevitable, ubiquitous invalid, globe-trotter, and hotel habitué--each type or stratum as distinctly
marked as in a pousse café, or jelly cake. What a comparison! I ask Santa Barbara's pardon,
and beg not to be struck with lightning, or destroyed by gunpowder.--"Yes, to the Arlington."

CHAPTER XI.

SANTA BARBARA.

    "Saints will aid if men will call,
    For the blue sky bends o'er all."

Sweet sixteen and an "awful dad." Santa Barbara and Dioscurus. Such a cruel story, and so varied
in version that the student of sacred legend gets decidedly puzzled. The fair-haired daughter
was advised secretly by Origen, who sent a pupil disguised as a physician to instruct her in
the Christian faith. She insisted on putting three windows instead of two into the bathroom
of the tower to which her father sent her, either to prevent her from marrying or to imprison
her until she would wed one of the many gay young suitors. These three windows showed her belief
in the Trinity, which she could not have learned from Origen, as among Christians he was regarded
as heretical, and his followers were Unitarians and Universalists combined, adding the cheerful
theory of the "second opportunity" and that all punishment from sin would have an end, yet
clinging to the old pagan mythology and believing that sun, moon, stars, and the ocean all
had souls--a "Neo-Platonist."

Refusing to recant, Barbara was arraigned and condemned to death. Her energetic paternal evidently
had heard the maxim, "If you want anything done, do it yourself." His heavy blows fell soft
as feathers. She seemed in sweet slumber. So he drew his sword, cut off her head, and was instantly
killed by lightning from Heaven. Thus ends the history of two "Early Fathers."

But sweet St. Barbara will never be forgotten. She is the patroness of artillery soldiers,
and protects from lightning and sudden death. In the many pictures where she appears she carries
a feather, or the martyr's sword and palm, or a book; and the three windows are often seen.
She is the only Santa who bears the cup and wafer.

The appreciative Spaniards honored her memory by bestowing her pretty name on the choicest
spot of the coast, a belt of land seventy miles long and thirty-five wide, from Point Concepcion
to Buena Ventura. No one can dare to doubt this tragic tale, for Barbara's head may still be
seen preserved as a relic in the temple of All Saints at Rome. I do not want to be too severe
in my estimate of the Roman noble, Dioscurus. An old lady who never spoke ill of any one, when
called upon to say something good of the devil, said, "We might all imitate his persistence;"
and this impulsive demon was certainly a creature who, if he had an unpleasant duty confronting
him, attended to it himself.

The first navigator who landed on the coast of Santa Barbara, or on one of the four islands,
was Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo, in 1542. He is buried on San Miguel (pronounced Magell). The Indians
(and the entire Indian population at that time amounted to 22,000) were exceedingly glad to
welcome the strangers, much better behaved than those found at San Diego, who stripped the
clothing from those too ill to defend themselves. Perhaps a reason for this superiority may
be found in the fact that these tribes were entirely naked, and had no desire for any conventional
covering. They serenaded their new friends so loudly that sleep or rest was impossible, and
offered their most delicious food and free use of canoes. They ate seeds, fruit, fish, locusts;
hunted rabbit, hare, and deer; dried the meat of the latter on trees; placed acorns in a sieve
basket, rinsed and boiled them. As every race is unhappy without an intoxicating drink and
something to chew or smoke, they extracted a bitter beverage from a certain seed, and used
a root in place of tobacco.

These Channel Indians let their hair grow so long that they could make braids and fasten them
round the face with stone rings. The visitors spoke of the "Island of the Bearded People."
They had substantial brush huts, supported by pillars bearing inscriptions supposed to allude
to their religion, and they enjoyed dancing to the music of bone flutes. For gifts, they most
desired red calico and chocolate.

Cabrillo's men found a primitive temple on one of the islands, and in it an unknown god or
idol. One of the eight original tribes had a form of worship strongly resembling a Turkish
bath. The men sat round a hot fire until drenched in perspiration; then plunged into a pool
of cold water. The women were not permitted to be devout in this "cleanliness next to godliness"
manner. It was a luxury and prerogative the noble braves wanted entirely for themselves. (We
see something similar in our own progressive, enlightened churches, where women are expected
to provide and pack clothing for missionary boxes, attend unfailingly on the stated means of
grace, visit and nurse the sick and poor members, deny themselves for charity, listen reverently
to stupid discourses on the unknown, delivered with profound certainty that approaches omniscience,
but are not allowed to "speak out in meetin'," or to have the honor of being represented by
women delegates at denominational conventions, or clubs and councils. They are to lead heavenward,
but earthly pleasures and honors are strictly "reserved"! About the same, isn't it?)

When Father Junipero Sena reached Santa Barbara on his mission-starting pilgrimage, he sent
for Mexican artisans, who taught his converts all the industrial arts. They were taught to
support themselves, then a piece of ground was parcelled out to each, with a yoke of oxen and
farming utensils. Serra formed eleven missions; ten were added later. He built the great aqueduct
which is still used in Santa Barbara. All honor to his memory! "There lingers around Santa
Barbara more of the aroma and romance of a bygone civilization, when the worthy Padres set
an example of practical Christianity to the Indian aborigines that we would do well to emulate,
than is found elsewhere in the State."

In the good old days a person could travel from San Diego to San Francisco and not expend one
shilling. The Mission Fathers would furnish saddle, horse, or a comfortable bed, meals, and
the Spanish host would leave in the guest-chamber a small heap of silver covered by a cloth,
and the stranger, if needy, was expected to take some of it to supply his wants.

Would you like to see a specimen of the Indian dialect used by the "Bearded People"? I can
count to five in the Siujtu language--or, at least, I don't care to go much further: paca,
sco, masa, scu, itapaca; twenty is sco-quealisco; and to-morrow, huanahuit.

The islands are now only occupied by flocks of sheep, sheared twice a year, and paying their
owners a good profit; $100,000 one year from Santa Rosa alone. The wool gets full of seed,
and it is not the finest quality, but this is counterbalanced by the quantity.

Many large abalone shells are found on San Miguel. They are pried off with a crow-bar, the
shells are polished for sale, made into buttons, etc., and the meat is dried and sent to China,
where it is ground and made into soup. It has been used here, and pronounced by some to be
equal to terrapin, and by others to closely resemble leather.

These islands are always a delight to look upon. As the state of the atmosphere varies they
seem near or far away, clearly defined, or with a hazy outline. But in sunlight or shadow,
mist or mirage, they are ever beautiful. Within the peaceful channel ships are safe while a
wind storm rages just beyond. The government sends big war-ships here for a trial of speed.
None of these islands are now desirable for residence. There is no natural supply of fresh
water, and the sheep rely on the moisture left by the heavy fogs, and on a certain plant which
holds water in its cup-like blossom. I hear that at Catalina the goats, deprived of their natural
pabulum of hoop-skirts, tomato cans, and old shoes, feed on clover and drink the dew.

That's what this climate does for a goat. I do not dare to make many statements in regard to
novelties in natural history since one poor woman poetized upon the coyote "howling" in the
desert, and roused hundreds of critics to deny that coyotes ever howled. And a scientific student
came to Santa Barbara not so long ago, and found on one of these islands a species of tailless
fox, and hastened to communicate the interesting anomaly to the Smithsonian Institute. It seems
that the otter hunters trapped these foxes for their tails, then let them go.

If it were not for these blunders I would state that roosters seem to keep awake most of the
night in Southern California, and can be heard crowing at most irregular hours. Considering
the risks, I refrain.

The islands were named by a pious priest, who made the map; and those we see in looking out
from Santa Barbara are San Miguel, Santa Rosa, Santa Cruz, Ana, Capa. San Nicholas Island is
interesting as having been the abode for sixteen years of a solitary Indian woman, a feminine
Robinson Crusoe, without even a Friday, who was left by mistake when the rest of the Indians
were carried away by order of the Mission Fathers. Two of the men who at last succeeded in
finding her gave their testimony, which has been preserved; and one of them, Charlie Brown,
is still alive, and likes to tell the strange story. It seems she had run back to get her child,
and the ship went off without her. Nidever tells his story in this way:

"We scattered off two or three hundred yards apart. She had a little house made of brush and
had a fire; she was sitting by the fire with a little knife; she was working with it. She had
a bone; all came up and looked at her; she had a heap of roots--that is what she lived on--and
had little sacks to carry them in. As soon as we sat down she put a lump of them to roast on
the fire. Finally we got ready to go, and we made signs for her to come with us. She understood
the signs for her to come with us; she picked up her things to take them on board."

She had a dress made of duck skins, sewed together with the sinews of a seal, with needles
made of bone--an eye drilled through. This dress the priests sent to Rome.

The demijohn in which she carried water was made out of rushes and stopped with asphaltum.
She was making one of these water bottles. She heated small round stones in the fire and put
them in the asphaltum, and then lined the bottle, making it tight. She had no matches, of course,
nor even a tinder-box, but started fire by rubbing two sticks together.

She said her child was eaten up by wolves. None of the Indians understood her dialect; finally
one woman was found who could talk to her a little, who had been raised on the same island.
The woman was found in 1853. She seemed happy and contented, and would go round to different
houses and dance the Indian dances. She was a great curiosity; twenty or thirty would go along
with her. Many who were sailing by would stop just to see her.

The other hunters had noticed small human tracks, but never could see any one. At last several
men were scattered all over the island, and Charlie Brown was the first to discover her. He
thought at first it was only a black crow sitting on a whalebone. I give his version, as his
language is far more picturesque and vivid than my paraphrase would be. He says:

"She had built a brush fence about two feet high to break the wind. The sun was coming in her
face. She was skinning a seal. The dog when he noticed me he began to growl. I thought if she
should run. I stepped right round her, and she bowed as if she knew me before, and when the
Indians came up they all kneeled down, and when she saw there was some of her color, she held
out some of her food and offered all some.

"I took her by the shoulder, and I said, 'Varmoose,' and she understood at once. I took everything
she had, and she took a big seal head in basket. We all had something to carry. Then she had
a little brand of fire, and she took that away and wobbled along with a strange kind of a step
like until we came to a watering-place about fifty feet down the bank, and they all went down
there and she went too, and she sat down there and we watched to see what she would do, and
she washed herself over; her hair was all rotting away, a kind of bleached by the sun, and
we got to the vessel and she kneeled down, and we had a stove right on deck and she crawled
to the stove and we gave her a piece of biscuit and she ate like a good fellow. It came on
to blow; old man Nidever had some bed-ticking. I made her a dress, and gave her a man's shirt.
She was tickled to death. If I was where she was she would hold up her dress and point that
I made it."

He was asked how she happened to be left, repeated Nidever's story, and added: "She found they
were all gone, and commenced to hollo. No answer, and hunted round and saw the tracks and found
they went to lower part of the island. When she got there found the vessel going away, and
she called, 'Mancyavina,' but it never came. She put her head on the ground and laid on the
ground and cried, and they never came.

"The priest here had all the Indians in Santa Barbara and Santa Inez to see if they understood
her. They could understand some words, but not all. She got baptized, and they made her a Christian
and everything. A steamer came up from below; the captain offered to take her up and show her,
but old man Nidever would not agree. She died; they gave her green corn and melons, and they
were too much for her. She made knives of bone and wood, and had pointed nails for catching
fish. She had ropes nicely twisted with sinews, twisted as true as any rope-maker could make,
and had bottles made of grass, and dishes of wood with handles; she put the feathers next her
skin to keep warm."

I will only add that wild dogs were numerous, and she tamed them for friends. The priests called
her Juana Maria, and I think the name of the island should be changed in her honor. I doubt
if Santa Barbara herself could have done as well under similar circumstances.

CHAPTER XII.

HER CITY AND COUNTY.

    "Syrian apples, Othmanee quinces,
    Limes and citrons and apricots,
    And wines that are known to Eastern princes."

In walking through the streets of Santa Barbara you may still see the various types, but not
so clearly defined as of old. Holy Fathers still intone the service within the massive mission
walls; they still cultivate the large garden, from which woman is sedulously excluded. But
the faces are German and Irish. At a street corner two men are talking earnestly, and as you
pass you get a glance from Mexican eyes, dark and soft, but the hair shows Indian blood. A
real old Mexican vaquero rides by in the genuine outfit, well worn and showing long use; next
a carriage full of fashionable visitors; then a queerer combination than the Anglomaniac with
his trousers legs turned up if the cable reports a rainy day in London. This is the American
vaquero--usually a short, fat man with dumpy legs, who dons a flapping sombrero, buys a new
Mexican saddle, wooden stirrups, and leather riata, sometimes adding a coil of rope at left
side, wears the botas with a corduroy suit at dinner at hotel, and doesn't know at all how
comical an appearance he presents. The very next to pass is one of the pioneers, who, although
worth a million or more, puts on no style, and surveys the mongrel in front with a twinkle
in his eye. Every one should own a horse or pony or burro here, for the various drives are
the greatest charm of the place. Through all Southern California the happy children ride to
school, where the steeds, fastened to fence in front of building, wait patiently in line, like
Mary's lamb. But in Santa Barbara you see mere tots on horseback, who look as if it were no
new accomplishment. I believe the mothers put them on gentle ponies to be cared for, or safe,
as mothers in general use the cradle or high-chair. One of the old Mexican residents of Santa
Barbara, when over eighty years of age, had the misfortune to break his leg. He lay in bed
uneasily until a surgeon could be summoned and the fractured bones set and duly encased in
plaster. He then insisted on being carried out and placed upon his favorite horse, where he
sat during each day with patient serenity until the damage was repaired by nature.

The drives are all delightful. You cannot make a mistake; there are twenty-eight drives distinct
and beautiful. Those best known are, to the Mission Cañon, to the Lighthouse, to Montecito
and Carpenteria, Cooper's Ranch, through the far-famed Ojai Valley, and the stage or coaching
trip to San Luis Obispo, not forgetting La Vina Grande (the big grapevine), the trunk eighteen
inches in diameter, foliage covering 10,000 square feet, producing in one year 12,000 pounds
of grapes; and the Cathedral Oaks. I jotted down a few facts at the Lighthouse a la Jingle
in Pickwick Papers: gleaming white tower, black lantern, rising from neat white cottage, green
window-shutters, light 180 feet above sea-level, fine view from balcony, fields of young barley
down to water's edge, bluest blue in sea and sky, the lamp holds only one quart of oil, reflectors
do big business, considering, throwing the light 417 miles.

The keeper, a woman, has been there over thirty years, never goes away for a single night,
trim, quaint, and decided, doesn't want to be written up, will oblige her, don't believe a
woman ever did so much good with a quart of kerosene daily before. Been a widow a long time,
heard of one woman, wife of lighthouse-keeper, he died, she too stout to be gotten out of the
one room, next incumbent married her.

Montecito, as Roe described it, is a village of charming gardens and green lawns, with a softer
climate even than Santa Barbara--a most desirable situation for an elegant country retreat.
I had the privilege of visiting the home of Mr. W. P. Gould, a former resident of Boston, who
has one of the most perfect places I have ever seen. He has been experimenting this year with
olive oil in one room of his large house for curing lemons, and has perfected a machine which
expresses the "virgin oil" without cracking a single pit or stone. This is a great improvement,
as one crushed stone will give an acrid taste to a quart of oil. There is a fashion in fruits
as much as in bonnets or sleeves. Olive culture is just now the fad. Pears, prunes, almonds,
walnuts, have each had their day, or their special boom. Pomona is headquarters for the olive
industry. Nursery men there sold over 500,000 trees last year. The tree does not require the
richest soil. Hon. Elwood Cooper's olive oil is justly famous, but the machinery designed by
Mr. Gould makes a much purer oil, pronounced by connoisseurs to be the finest in the world.
The olives are sun-dried; the ponderous rollers and keen knives of the masher mash the fruit,
and every after-process is the perfection of cleanliness and skill. There is a nutty sweetness
about this oil, and a clear amber color, which makes it most desirable for the fastidious invalid.

This new process has been purchased by a company who are going to try to give the country what
it has never known before--pure olive oil, free from a bit of the stone. No pure oil is brought
to our country. The public think the price too high; they prefer to buy cotton-seed oil at
thirty-five cents a gallon, and this is adulterated with peanuts, sunflowers, and so on. This
will do for the masses, but the best is none too good if it can be found.

Few appreciate the medicinal value of olive oil. Nations making use regularly of this and the
fruit are freed from dyspepsia. A free use in the United States would round out Brother Jonathan's
angular spareness of form, and make him less nervous and less like the typical Yankee of whom
the witty Grace Greenwood said: "He looks as if the Lord had made him and then pinched him."
One does not see the orange groves here, but the lemon trees and walnuts and olives are an
agreeable change--just for a change.

"Who ever thinks of connecting such a commonplace article of diet as the lemon with the romantic
history of ill-fated Anne Boleyn? Yet, indirectly, she was the cause of its first introduction
into England, and so into popular notice. Henry VIII., who, if he rid himself of his wives
like a brute, certainly won them like a prince, gave such splendid feasts and pageants in honor
of the coronation of Anne and of their previous nuptials as had seldom been accorded to queens
of the royal blood. These kingly entertainments were in turn followed by the great civic feast
of London, for which the whole world was searched for delicacies to add to the splendor. At
one such banquet, graced by the presence of the royal pair, a lemon was introduced as an elegant
novelty. To an epicure such as Henry, the acquisition of a castle in France would have proved
less acceptable, and such was the importance attached to the discovery--so says an old biographer--that
a special record was made of the fact that the cost of this precious lemon was six silver pennies."

We hear nothing of irrigation, but almost everything will thrive without it. The soil grows
well all varieties of fruits found in the Eastern and New England States, besides all the semi-tropical
fruits, as guavas, loquats, persimmons, dates, etc. As the Rev. Mr. Jackson says: "Could it
be shown that the primitive Eden bore as many fruits pleasant to the taste, it would add a
new pang to the thought of original sin."

The number of native trees seems small, but trees have been naturalized here from every part
of the world. The pepper tree is from Peru, also the quinine tree: from Chili, the monkey tree
and the Norfolk Island pine.

Mr. Cooper imported the eucalyptus from Australia. It grows rapidly, and is planted for windbreaks.
It is used for firewood, and when cut down nearly to the ground will start up with the same
old courage and ambition. Its roots are so eager for water that they make long detours, sometimes
even climbing up and down a stone wall, if it is in their route, or into a well. From the same
country comes the acacia, the rubber tree, and a large number of shrubs. New Zealand contributes
her share, and to China and Japan they are indebted for the camphor tree, the gingko, the loquat,
and the chestnuts. To South Africa they are indebted for the silver tree, and from the northern
part of that country the date-palm and the tamarind.

One sees side by side here, and in Pasadena, trees from almost opposite climes: the New England
elm and a cork tree, a cedar of Lebanon and a maple or an English oak. Then the glorious palm--twenty-two
varieties in Montecito Valley alone.

Sydney Smith said of the fertility of Australia, "Tickle her with a hoe and she laughs with
a harvest." But in California even the hoe is not needed, for "volunteer crops" come up all
by themselves, and look better than ours so carefully cultivated. They say that if a Chinaman
eats a watermelon under a tree the result is a fine crop of melons next year. And I read of
a volunteer tomato plant ploughed down twice that measured twelve feet square, and bore thousands
of small red tomatoes.

Alfalfa is an ever-growing crop--can be garnered five times each year.

And as for flowers, I really cannot attempt to enumerate or describe in detail. There are hundreds
of varieties of roses. They were found growing wild by myriads, and have been most carefully
cultivated and improved. One rose tree in the grounds of the Arlington Hotel has spread over
sixty feet of the veranda, and three lady guests have climbed into its branches at once. As
one man said: "The roses here would climb to the moon if a trellis could be provided."

A friend sent me twenty-five large bunches of the choicest roses from her garden one morning
in April, each bunch a different variety. Their roses are shipped in large quantities to San
Francisco, and Chicago has her churches decorated at Easter from the rose gardens of Santa Barbara.

Honey naturally is thought of. Apiculture here is a great business. The bee has to be busy
all day long and all through the year--no rest. One ingenious fellow proposed crossing the
working bee with the firefly, so it could work all night long by its own lantern. But this
is better. I hear wondrous stories of bees getting into cracks of church towers or upper stories,
and bulging out the buildings with their accumulated stores--positively cartloads of sweetness.
Think of honey made from orange flowers selling at five cents a pound!

A clergyman writing of Santa Barbara County says that twenty-five years ago all their vegetables
were imported. Now beans yield a ton to the acre, potatoes two hundred and fifty bushels per
acre, and he has seen potatoes that weighed six, seven, and eight and a half pounds--as much
as an ordinary baby; beets, seventy-five tons to the acre; carrots, thirty. Mr. Webster once
declared in Congress that this State could never raise a bushel of grain. Corn yields fifty
bushels to the acre; barley, sixty; wheat, thirty. Others give much higher records: corn, one
hundred and thirty bushels; barley, eighty; potatoes, four hundred; forty tons of squashes,
four tons of hay, sixty tons of beets.

I have spoken of stock-raising. Dairying is a profitable industry. Poultry farming a little
uncertain. If interested in mining there is much to explore. Just in this county are found
gold, silver, copper, asphaltum, bituminous rock, gypsum, quicksilver, natural gas, and petroleum.

And what sort of a climate does one find? Santa Barbara is an all-year-round resort. It has
all that one could ask.

    "The mountains look on Marathon,
    And Marathon looks on the sea."

It is a perpetual summer--sometimes a cold and rainy June, sometimes a little too warm, sometimes
a three days' sand-storm, disagreeable and trying; but it is always June, as we in New England
know June. At least it is Juney from 9 A.M. until 4 P.M. Just before sunset the temperature
falls. Then when the sun goes rapidly in or down it is like being out at sea. And to a sensitive
patient, with nerves all on outside, chilled by the least coolness, it is unpleasantly piercing.

When any one describes Santa Barbara to you as a town

    "Where winds are hushed nor dare to breathe aloud,
    Where skies seem never to have borne a cloud,"

remember that this applies truthfully to "a Santa Barbara day," but not to all days. Surf bathers
go in every month of the year. But this does not alter the fact that a person would be disappointed
and consider himself deceived if he accepted the general idea of absolute heaven on earth.
The inhabitants do not wish such exaggerations and misrepresentations to go forth. California
can bear to have the whole truth told, and still be far ahead. Who wants eternal sunshine,
eternal monotony?

The temperature during the day varies little. I see that one resident compares it with May
in other parts of the country. I think he has never tried to find a picnic day in early May
in New England. He says: "Our coldest month is warmer than April at Philadelphia, and our warmest
one much cooler than June at same place." They did have one simoon in 1859, when the mercury
rose to 133°, and stayed there for eight hours. Animals and birds died, trees were blasted
and burned, and gardens ruined. But that was most "unusual."

Flannels are worn the year round. Average of rain, seventeen inches. There are sixty-one mineral
and medicinal springs in California that are already famous. Here we can take hot sulphur baths,
and drink the nauseous water that is said to cure almost all diseases.

Farming is comparatively easy. But grapevines are smitten by a mysterious disease called "cellular
degeneration," and phylloxera; a black scale that injures orange and olive, and a white scale
that is worse. Apples are not free from worms; the gopher is sure to go for every root it can
find. There was a serpent even in the original Eden. The historian remarks: "The cloddish,
shiftless farmer is perhaps safer in Massachusetts." I think of experiences at "Gooseville,"
and decide not to buy, nor even rent a ranch, nor accept one if offered. "Fly to ills I know
not of?" No, thank you!

I'm tired now of agriculture and climate, and will turn to less practical themes. You sympathize.
We will stop and begin a new chapter, with a hope of being more interesting.

CHAPTER XIII.

IN GALA DRESS.

