 What
nonsense it is! How can we separate--tell me that, please?'

Praskovia Ivanovna looked down and made him no reply.

'Come, we've been talking nonsense, and there's an end of it,' pursued Ivan Afanasiitch, walking
up and down the room, rubbing his hands, and, as it were, resuming his ancient rights. 'Amen!
and now I'd better have a pipe.'

Praskovia Ivanovna still did not move from her place....

'I see you are angry with me,' said Pyetushkov.

'I've offended you, perhaps. Well! well! forgive me generously.'

'How could you offend me, my good sir? No offence about it.... Only, please, sir,' added Praskovia
Ivanovna, bowing, 'be so good as not to go on coming to us.'

'What?'

'It's not for you, sir, to be friends with us, your honour. So, please, do us the favour ...'

Praskovia Ivanovna went on bowing.

'What ever for?' muttered the astounded Pyetushkov.

'Oh, nothing, sir. For mercy's sake ...'

'No, Praskovia Ivanovna, you must explain this! ...'

'Vassilissa asks you. She says, "I thank you, thank you very much, and from my heart; only
for the future, your honour, give us up."'

Praskovia Ivanovna bowed down almost to Pyetushkov's feet.

'Vassilissa, you say, begs me not to come?'

'Just so, your honour. When your honour came in to-day, and said what you did, that you didn't
wish, you said, to visit us any more, I felt relieved, sir, that I did; thinks I, Well, thank
God, how nicely it's all come about! But for that, I should have had hard work to bring my
tongue to say it.... Be so good, sir.'

Pyetushkov turned red and pale almost at the same instant. Praskovia Ivanovna still went on
bowing....

'Very good,' Ivan Afanasiitch cried sharply. 'Good-bye.'

He turned abruptly and put on his cap.

'But the little bill, sir....'

'Send it ... my orderly shall pay you.'

Pyetushkov went with resolute steps out of the baker's shop, and did not even look round.

X

A fortnight passed. At first Pyetushkov bore up in an extraordinary way. He went out, and visited
his comrades, with the exception, of course, of Bublitsyn; but in spite of the exaggerated
approbation of Onisim, he almost went out of his mind at last from wretchedness, jealousy,
and ennui. Conversations with Onisim about Vassilissa were the only thing that afforded him
some consolation. The conversation was always begun, 'scratched up,' by Pyetushkov; Onisim
responded unwillingly.

'It's a strange thing, you know,' Ivan Afanasiitch would say, for instance, as he lay on the
sofa, while Onisim stood in his usual attitude, leaning against the door, with his hands folded
behind his back, 'when you come to think of it, what it was I saw in that girl. One would say
that there was nothing unusual in her. It's true she has a good heart. That one can't deny her.'

'Good heart, indeed!' Onisim would answer with displeasure.

'Come, now, Onisim,' Pyetushkov went on, 'one must tell the truth. It's a thing of the past
now; it's no matter to me now, but justice is justice. You don't know her. She's very good-hearted.
Not a single beggar does she let pass by; she'll always give, if it's only a crust of bread.
Oh! And she's of a cheerful temper, that one must allow, too.'

'What a notion! I don't know where you see the cheerful temper!'

'I tell you ... you don't know her. And she's not mercenary either ... that's another thing.
She's not grasping, there's no doubt of it. Why I never gave her anything, as you know.'

'That's why she's flung you over.'

'No, that's not why!' responded Pyetushkov with a sigh.

'Why, you're in love with her to this day,' Onisim retorted malignantly. 'You'd be glad to
go back there as before.'

'That's nonsense you're talking. No, my lad, you don't know me either, I can see. Be sent away,
and then go dancing attendance--no, thank you, I'd rather be excused. No, I tell you. You may
believe me, it's all a thing of the past now.