Everything was tried. Very elaborately he devised a funding scheme which, taken in connection
with his system of issues, was in effect what in these days would be called an "interconvertibility
scheme" By various degrees of persuasion or force,--the guillotine looming up in the background,--holders
of assignats were urged to convert them into evidence of national debt, bearing interest at
five per cent, with the understanding that if more paper were afterward needed more would be
issued. All in vain. The official tables of depreciation show that the assignats continued
to fall. A forced loan, calling in a billion of these, checked this fall, but only for a moment.
The "interconvertibility scheme" between currency and bonds failed as dismally as the "interconvertibility
scheme" between currency and land had failed. [58]

A more effective expedient was a law confiscating the property of all Frenchmen who left France
after July 14, 1789, and who had not returned. This gave new land to be mortgaged for the security
of paper money.

All this vast chapter in financial folly is sometimes referred to as if it resulted from the
direct action of men utterly unskilled in finance. This is a grave error. That wild schemers
and dreamers took a leading part in setting the fiat money system going is true; that speculation
and interested financiers made it worse is also true: but the men who had charge of French
finance during the Reign of Terror and who made these experiments, which seem to us so monstrous,
in order to rescue themselves and their country from the flood which was sweeping everything
to financial ruin were universally recognized as among the most skillful and honest financiers
in Europe. Cambon, especially, ranked then and ranks now as among the most expert in any period.
The disastrous results of all his courage and ability in the attempt to stand against the deluge
of paper money show how powerless are the most skillful masters of finance to stem the tide
of fiat money calamity when once it is fairly under headway; and how useless are all enactments
which they can devise against the underlying laws of nature.

Month after month, year after year new issues went on. Meanwhile everything possible was done
to keep up the value of paper. The city authorities of Metz took a solemn oath that the assignats
should bear the same price whether in paper or specie,--and whether in buying or selling, and
various other official bodies throughout the nation followed this example. In obedience to
those who believed with the market women of Paris, as stated in their famous petition, that
"laws should be passed making paper money as good as gold," Couthon, in August, 1793, had proposed
and carried a law punishing any person who should sell assignats at less than their nominal
value with imprisonment for twenty years in chains, and later carried a law making investments
in foreign countries by Frenchmen punishable with death. [59]

But to the surprise of the great majority of the French people, the value of the assignats
was found, after the momentary spasm of fear had passed, not to have been permanently increased
by these measures: on the contrary, this "fiat" paper persisted in obeying the natural laws
of finance and, as new issues increased, their value decreased. Nor did the most lavish aid
of nature avail. The paper money of the nation seemed to possess a magic power to transmute
prosperity into adversity and plenty into famine. The year 1794 was exceptionally fruitful:
and yet with the autumn came scarcity of provisions and with the winter came distress. The
reason is perfectly simple. The sequences in that whole history are absolutely logical. First,
the Assembly had inflated the currency and raised prices enormously. Next, it had been forced
to establish an arbitrary maximum price for produce. But this price, large as it seemed, soon
fell below the real value of produce; many of the farmers, therefore, raised less produce or
refrained from bringing what they had to market. [60] But, as is usual in such cases, the trouble
was ascribed to everything rather than the real cause, and the most severe measures were established
in all parts of the country to force farmers to bring produce to market, millers to grind and
shopkeepers to sell it. [61] The issues of paper money continued. Toward the end of 1794 seven
thousand millions in assignats were in circulation. The trees, mountains, streams, and valley covered the
undecided green carpet in the dim glow of the sunset light.The count
put his horse in his back and galloped swiftly in the hillside where
Lancia is hiding.

 [63] But, curiously enough, while this depreciation was
rapidly going on, as at various other periods when depreciation was rapid, there came an apparent
revival of business. The hopes of many were revived by the fact that in spite of the decline
of paper there was an exceedingly brisk trade in all kinds of permanent property. Whatever
articles of permanent value certain needy people were willing to sell certain cunning people
were willing to buy and to pay good prices for in assignats. At this, hope revived for a time
in certain quarters. But ere long it was discovered that this was one of the most distressing
results of a natural law which is sure to come into play under such circumstances. It was simply
a feverish activity caused by the intense desire of a large number of the shrewder class to
convert their paper money into anything and everything which they could hold and hoard until
the collapse which they foresaw should take place. This very activity in business simply indicated
the disease. It was simply legal robbery of the more enthusiastic and trusting by the more
cold-hearted and keen. It was, the "unloading" of the assignats upon the mass of the people. [64]

Interesting is it to note in the midst of all this the steady action of another simple law
in finance. Prisons, guillotines, enactments inflicting twenty years' imprisonment in chains
upon persons twice convicted of buying or selling paper money at less than its nominal value,
and death upon investors in foreign securities, were powerless. The National Convention, fighting
a world in arms and with an armed revolt on its own soil, showed titanic power, but in its
struggle to circumvent one simple law of nature its weakness was pitiable. The louis d'or stood
in the market as a monitor, noting each day, with unerring fidelity, the decline in value of
the assignat; a monitor not to be bribed, not to be scared. As well might the National Convention
try to bribe or scare away the polarity of the mariner's compass. On August 1, 1795, this gold
louis of 25 francs was worth in paper, 920 francs; on September 1st, 1,200 francs; on November
1st, 2,600 francs; on December 1st, 3,050 francs. In February, 1796, it was worth 7,200 francs
or one franc in gold was worth 288 francs in paper. Prices of all commodities went up nearly
in proportion. [65] The writings of this period give curious details. Thibaudeau, in his Memoirs,
speaks of sugar as 500 francs a pound, soap, 230 francs, candles, 140 francs. Mercier, in his
lifelike pictures of the French metropolis at that period, mentions 600 francs as carriage
hire for a single drive, and 6,000 for an entire day. Examples from other sources are such
as the following:--a measure of flour advanced from two francs in 1790, to 225 francs in 1795;
a pair of shoes, from five francs to 200; a hat, from 14 francs to 500; butter, to, 560 francs
a pound; a turkey, to 900 francs. [66] Everything was enormously inflated in price except the
wages of labor. As manufacturers had closed, wages had fallen, until all that kept them up
seemed to be the fact that so many laborers were drafted off into the army. From this state
of things came grievous wrong and gross fraud. Men who had foreseen these results and had gone
into debt were of course jubilant. He who in 1790 had borrowed 10,000 francs could pay his
debts in 1796 for about 35 francs. Laws were made to meet these abuses. As far back as 1794
a plan was devised for publishing official "tables of depreciation" to be used in making equitable
settlements of debts, but all such machinery proved futile. On the 18th of May, 1796, a young
man complained to the National Convention that his elder brother, who had been acting as administrator
of his deceased father's estate, had paid the heirs in assignats, and that he had received
scarcely one three-hundredth part of the real value of his share. [67] To meet cases like this,
a law was passed establishing a "scale of proportion." Taking as a standard the value of the
assignat when there were two billions in circulation, this law declared that, in payment of
debts, one-quarter should be added to the amount originally borrowed for every five hundred
millions added to the circulation. In obedience to this law a man who borrowed two thousand
francs when there were two billions in circulation would have to pay his creditors twenty-five
hundred francs when half a billion more were added to the currency, and over thirty-five thousand
francs before the emissions of paper reached their final amount. This brought new evils, worse,
if possible, than the old. [68]

The question will naturally be asked, On whom did this vast depreciation mainly fall at last?
When this currency had sunk to about one three-hundredth part of its nominal value and, after
that, to nothing, in whose hands was the bulk of it? The answer is simple. I shall give it
in the exact words of that thoughtful historian from whom I have already quoted: "Before the
end of the year 1795 the paper money was almost exclusively in the hands of the working classes,
employees and men of small means, whose property was not large enough to invest in stores of
goods or national lands. [69] Financiers and men of large means were shrewd enough to put as
much of their property as possible into objects of permanent value. The working classes had
no such foresight or skill or means. On them finally came the great crushing weight of the
loss. After the first collapse came up the cries of the starving. Roads and bridges were neglected;
many manufactures were given up in utter helplessness." To continue, in the words of the historian
already cited: "None felt any confidence in the future in any respect; few dared to make a
business investment for any length of time and it was accounted a folly to curtail the pleasures
of the moment, to accumulate or save for so uncertain a future." [70]

This system in finance was accompanied by a system in politics no less startling, and each
system tended to aggravate the other. The wild radicals, having sent to the guillotine first
all the Royalists and next all the leading Republicans they could entrap, the various factions
began sending each other to the same destination:--Hébertists, Dantonists, with various other
factions and groups, and, finally, the Robespierrists, followed each other in rapid succession.
After these declaimers and phrase-mongers had thus disappeared there came to power, in October,
1795, a new government,--mainly a survival of the more scoundrelly,--the Directory. It found
the country utterly impoverished and its only resource at first was to print more paper and
to issue even while wet from the press. These new issues were made at last by the two great
committees, with or without warrant of law, and in greater sums than ever. Complaints were
made that the array of engravers and printers at the mint could not meet the demand for assignats--that
they could produce only from sixty to seventy millions per day and that the government was
spending daily from eighty to ninety millions. Four thousand millions of francs were issued
during one month, a little later three thousand millions, a little later four thousand millions,
until there had been put forth over thirty-five thousand millions. The purchasing power of
this paper having now become almost nothing, it was decreed, on the 22nd of December, 1795,
that the whole amount issued should be limited to forty thousand millions, including all that
had previously been put forth and that when this had been done the copper plates should be
broken. Even in spite of this, additional issues were made amounting to about ten thousand
millions. But on the 18th of February, 1796, at nine o'clock in the morning, in the presence
of a great crowd, the machinery, plates and paper for printing assignats were brought to the
Place Vendome and there, on the spot where the Napoleon Column now stands, these were solemnly
broken and burned.

Shortly afterward a report by Camus was made to the Assembly that the entire amount of paper
money issued in less than six years by the Revolutionary Government of France had been over
forty-five thousand millions of francs--that over six thousand millions had been annulled and
burned and that at the final catastrophe there were in circulation close upon forty thousand
millions. Call me father ... I am your father!

You know, you know?

- Yes, I know ... You are my father and I am your daughter ... I have
dream ... Let me sleep on your chest.

And he dropped it on the blond head. Count leaned his to kiss the
forehead and felt his lips parched by the heat of fever.

The child
enjoyed some moments of lethargic sleep. Ran from time to time by
his tender living body tremors. Finally awoke with a cry.

- Luis,
which leads me! ... Watch them, watch them ... there they are!pedient of the Directory was to secure a forced loan of six hundred million
francs from the wealthier classes; but this was found fruitless. Ominous it was when persons
compelled to take this loan found for an assignat of one hundred francs only one franc was
allowed. Next a National Bank was proposed; but capitalists were loath to embark in banking
while the howls of the mob against all who had anything especially to do with money resounded
in every city. At last the Directory bethought themselves of another expedient. This was by
no means new. It had been fully tried on our continent twice before that time: and once, since--first,
in our colonial period; next, during our Confederation; lastly, by the "Southern Confederacy"
and here, as elsewhere, always in vain. But experience yielded to theory--plain business sense
to financial metaphysics. It was determined to issue a new paper which should be "fully secured"
and "as good as gold."

Pursuant to this decision it was decreed that a new paper money "fully secured and as good
as gold" be issued under the name of "mandats." In order that these new notes should be "fully
secured," choice public real estate was set apart to an amount fully equal to the nominal value
of the issue, and any one offering any amount of the mandats could at once take possession
of government lands; the price of the lands to be determined by two experts, one named by the
government and one by the buyer, and without the formalities and delays previously established
in regard to the purchase of lands with assignats.

