'The Tir-na-nOg itself,' he said, 'is below that sea, and a while since there were two men
out in a boat in the night-time, and they got stuck outside some way or another. They went
to sleep then, and when one of them wakened up he looked down into the sea, and he saw the
Tir-na-nOg and people walking about, and side-cars driving in the squares.'

Then he began telling me stories of mermaids--a common subject in this neighbourhood.

'There was one time a man beyond of the name of Shee,' he said, 'and his master seen a mermaid
on the sand beyond combing her hair, and he told Shee to get her. "I will," said Shee, "if
you'll give me the best horse you have in your stable." "I'll do that," said the master. Then
Shee got the horse, and when he saw the mermaid on the sand combing her hair, with her covering
laid away from her, he galloped up, when she wasn't looking, and he picked up the covering
and away he went with it. Then the waves rose up behind him and he galloped his best, and just
as he was coming out at the top of the tide the ninth wave cut off his horse behind his back,
and left himself and the half of his horse and the covering on the dry land. Then the mermaid
came in after her covering, and the master got married to her, and she lived with him a long
time, and had children--three or four of them. Well, in the wind-up, the master built a fine
new house, and when he was moving into it, and clearing the things out, he brought down an
old hamper out of the loft and put it in the yard. The woman was going about, and she looked
into the hamper, and she saw her covering hidden away in the bottom of it. She took it out
then and put it upon her and went back into the sea, and her children used to be on the shore
crying after her. I'm told from that day there isn't one of the Shees can go out in a boat
on that bay and not be drowned.'

We were now near the sandhills, where a crowd was beginning to come together, and booths were
being put up for the sale of apples and porter and cakes. A train had come in a little before
at a station a mile or so away, and a number of the usual trick characters, with their stock-in-trade,
were hurrying down to the sea. The roulette man passed us first, unfolding his table and calling
out at the top of his voice:

  Come play me a game of timmun and tup,
  The more you puts down the more you takes up.

'Take notice, gentlemen, I come here to spend a fortune, not to make one. The staff at G. H. effort.,
St. the, were that doubt not always been unprejudiced judges; but i was not hearing primarily from
Element. H between Wilson 1914 and omer end of three, and he was not
constantly me wrote in moment about the Dardanelles from August onwards:
"Cut your losses and come out."

The matter was deeply one for April. M. Government, because the committed were not absolutely be general
sportsman against the Straits; but strain. Government. M at no Neighbourhood to be in a of flux.
 For the first race there was one genuine race-horse,
very old and bony, and two or three young horses belonging to farmers in the neighbourhood.
The start was made from the middle of the crowd at the near end of the strand, and the course
led out along the edge of the sea to a post some distance away, back again to the starting-point,
round a post, and out and back once more.

