The charge insinuated by these odious slanders is one of the most difficult of all offences
to prove; it is also one which no man has a right to mention even in a whisper about any woman,
living or dead, unless he knows it to be true, and not even then unless he can also prove it
to be true. There is no justification for the abomination of putting this stuff in the book.

Against Harriet Shelley's good name there is not one scrap of tarnishing evidence, and not
even a scrap of evil gossip, that comes from a source that entitles it to a hearing.

On the credit side of the account we have strong opinions from the people who knew her best.
Peacock says:

          "I feel it due to the memory of Harriet to state my most
          decided conviction that her conduct as a wife was as pure, as
          true, as absolutely faultless, as that of any who for such
          conduct are held most in honor."

Thornton Hunt, who had picked and published slight flaws in Harriet's character, says, as regards
this alleged large one:

          "There is not a trace of evidence or a whisper of scandal
          against her before her voluntary departure from Shelley."

Trelawney says:

          "I was assured by the evidence of the few friends who knew both
          Shelley and his wife--Hookham, Hogg, Peacock, and one of the
          Godwins--that Harriet was perfectly innocent of all offence."

What excuse was there for raking up a parcel of foul rumors from malicious and discredited
sources and flinging them at this dead girl's head? Her very defencelessness should have been
her protection. The fact that all letters to her or about her, with almost every scrap of her
own writing, had been diligently mislaid, leaving her case destitute of a voice, while every
pen-stroke which could help her husband's side had been as diligently preserved, should have
excused her from being brought to trial. Her witnesses have all disappeared, yet we see her
summoned in her grave-clothes to plead for the life of her character, without the help of an
advocate, before a disqualified judge and a packed jury.

Harriet Shelley wrote her distressed letter on the 7th of July. On the 28th her husband ran
away with Mary Godwin and her part-sister Claire to the Continent. He deserted his wife when
her confinement was approaching. She bore him a child at the end of November, his mistress
bore him another one something over two months later. The truants were back in London before
either of these events occurred.

On one occasion, presently, Shelley was so pressed for money to support his mistress with that
he went to his wife and got some money of his that was in her hands--twenty pounds. Yet the
mistress was not moved to gratitude; for later, when the wife was troubled to meet her engagements,
the mistress makes this entry in her diary:

          "Harriet sends her creditors here; nasty woman.  Now we shall
          have to change our lodgings."

The deserted wife bore the bitterness and obloquy of her situation two years and a quarter;
then she gave up, and drowned herself. A month afterwards the body was found in the water.
Three weeks later Shelley married his mistress.

I must here be allowed to italicize a remark of the biographer's concerning Harriet Shelley:

          "That no act of Shelley's during the two years which
          immediately preceded her death tended to cause the rash act
          which brought her life to its close seems certain."

Yet her husband had deserted her and her children, and was living with a concubine all that
time! Why should a person attempt to write biography when the simplest facts have no meaning
to him? This book is littered with as crass stupidities as that one--deductions by the page
which bear no discoverable kinship to their premises.

