"Then I can use you safely," answered the stranger. "Now, I owe you a breakfast. Will you put
me in my carriage? I know the town thoroughly. Remember that it is only business that brings
us together, and yet we may become better friends." In a half an hour they were seated in an
arbor by the lake, where a homely German restaurant offered good cheer.

The Lady of the Lake did the honors ceremoniously, and Major Alan Hawke was permitted a cigar
after the lake trout, filet, pears, cheese, Chambertin, and black coffee had been discussed.
He was both conquered and repentant, and had adroitly atoned for his mauvais debut by a respectful
demeanor, which was not feigned. He answered the running fire of questions which had led him
from Cape Comorin to the Himalayas, and from Chittagong to the Khyber Pass.

"You are sure that no one in Geneva knows your face?" Berthe Louison asked at last.

"I have been here only two days, and it is twenty years since I first roved over Switzerland
on schoolboy leave," was the truthful answer.

"Then I can use you if you will decide to aid me, after you have heard me. I know, already,
all that young Anstruther knows of the whole Johnstone matter. I do not intend to meet him
at Paris," she demurely said. "I am absolutely untrammeled in this world. I am free to act
as a woman's moods sway her. I have plenty of money, a fact which lifts me above the degradation
of man's chase, and I indulge in no illusions. I am a soldier's daughter, and my dead father
was the son of one of Napoleon's heroes of La Grande Armee. My whole life has been most unconventional;
and I am free to dispose of myself, body and soul, and will, but for one thing." She was pleased
with Alan Hawke's mute glance of inquiry. "Only the business which brought me to Geneva! We
are all the slaves of circumstance! The veriest fools of fortune! I do not blame you for your
surmises! I had vainly sought, for two years, the very information which I gained last night
by chance at a Geneva table d'hote. It was from Anstruther that I discovered the changed name
under which Hugh Fraser's daughter has been hidden from me for years. For I owe this all to
chance, to Anstruther's susceptibility, and to my playing the risqu'e part which you saw fit
me so well." The woman's eyes were now flashing ominously.

"But you led me on--you deceived me!" stammered Alan Hawke.

"I had nothing to risk!" the resolute beauty replied. "My name is not Berthe Louison, as you
may well imagine! As for the little amourette de voyage, I will leave the laurels to your handsome
young friend and yourself. I do not play with boys, and, as for you, I should always guard
myself against you!

"Now, I will be practical! I know Europe; I do not know India! I need a man brave, cool, and
unscrupulous; I need a resolute man to aid me in the one purpose of my life! I wish to go out
to India to face this Hugh Fraser, to lift up the curtain of the dead past, and I need a protector--a
paid champion--a man who values the only thing which is concrete power in life; a man who knows
the power of money! For, gold is irresistible!" Her bright face hardened.

"My duties are, then, not to be of a tender nature," lightly hazarded Hawke.

"I can soon judge of your value by your adroitness, and you can make your own record!" smiled
the strange woman waif. "Let me see how you would do this! I do not care to personally approach
Mademoiselle Euphrosyne Delande, I would have a picture of the woman whom I seek--the lonely
child whom I have hungered for long years to see! I do not care to expose myself here--"

"The Preceptress might telegraph out to India and the girl be spirited away!" broke in Alan Hawke.

"Very good! Precisely so!" said Berthe Louison, gravely. "I will tell you now that I have played
perfectly fair with Anstruther! I have enabled him to assure himself of Nadine Johnstone's
regular standing as the legal and only heiress of the would-be Baronet! I do not fear Anstruther!
He is a gallant boy, worthy to wear a sword, and, he does not work for hire! He tells me that
Euphrosyne Delande showed him the last pictures of the girl which were sent on before Hugh
Fraser suddenly telegraphed to have his child 'personally conducted' on carte blanche terms
out to join him."

Major Hawke buried his head in his hands and slowly said: "I can do it easily! We must not
be seen together here! Go up to the Hotel Faucon, at Lausanne, and wait for me there for three
days. I have to remain here at any rate to collect Anstruther's check in London. I have in
my favor all the facts of Anstruther's story. I happen also to have Anstruther's P. P. C. card.
I will bring you the picture you want, or a half dozen copies. Will you trust to me? I make
no professions!"

"That is right!" sternly said Berthe Louison. "Let our casual association be one of a mere
money interest. We can find each other out easily. You have no motive to injure me, your own
interest now and always lies the other way. I only wish to have some one at hand when I am
ready to face the embryo Sir Hugh Johnstone!"

"You are bold!" slowly said Alan Hawke. "If I should denounce you to Johnstone, himself! If
he should be warned--"

"I hold him and his long cherished dream, the Baronetcy, in my hand," the brown-eyed beauty
frankly cried. "I should not burn my ships in Europe! Even if I were to be betrayed, the purpose
of my life will be carried out. I should leave here behind me the safest of anchors in other
well-paid agents. Your rash meddling would only ruin your own money interests and not hurt
my plans."

"Then we are to make an offensive and defensive alliance without trust or faith in each other?"
agnostically remarked Hawke.

"Just so!" answered Madame Louison. "I can make it to your interest to serve me well, better
than the man whom I wish to face. You know India--you happen to know Delhi. Your possible adversary
is an old civilian, rich, retired, and unable to rake up trouble for you in military circles.
I will do my work alone, but I shall want your aid, and I will pay you liberally. I will go
up to Lausanne. You will find me at the Hotel Faucon. Bring up some route maps of India. We
will go out as soon as possible. Do you wish any present money?"

Alan Hawke reddened as he shook his head.

"Then, Major Hawke, if you will take the first passing carriage, we will meet as soon as you
have succeeded. Send me a telegram of your coming." The adventurer's low bow of silent assent
terminated the strange breakfast scene, and at the gate of the vine-clad garden he turned and
saw her seated there alone, with her head bowed in a reverie.

"Damme if she is made of flesh and blood!" mused the Major, as he drove back to the Hotel National.
That very evening he revenged himself upon the callous-hearted stranger, by a reckless flirtation
with the Misses Phenie and Genie Forbes, still of Chicago. It was not a matter of concern to
any one but Paterfamilias Forbes that the Major indulged in a stolen moonlight excursion upon
the lake in charge of two extremely prononcee Daisy Millers. The Major's slumbers, however,
were of the lightest, for the face of the chance-met directress of his immediate future haunted
his uneasy dreams. He was a model of respectable gravity, however, when he presented himself
before Mademoiselle Euphrosyne Delande, at her Institute, when the bells clanged ten in the
morning. Major Hawke at once impressed the sleek door-opener, Francois, by the ultra refinement
of his demeanor, and the suave elegance of his French. "Evidently the one necessary Adam in
this Garden of undeveloped young Peris," thought Hawke, as he gazed around the cheerless room,
with its globes, busts of departed sages, topographical maps, and framed samples of the "Execution"
of the jeunes personnes, with brush and pencil.

"Looks breachy, that fellow--they all have to sneak out to drink, and for les fetifs plaisirs!
He may be made useful. I'll have a shy at him," mused the Major, now on his mettle. Francois
stood there expectant of a tip, when he announced the regrets of Mademoiselle Delande, that
class duties would detain her for a few moments.

"Would Monsieur kindly pardon, etc.?"

"Am I right in inferring that the ladies, are the daughters of the famous Professor Delande?"
the Major hazarded, with a wild guess. Before the votary of Minerva finally descended, Francois
had artfully "yielded up" much valuable information to the gravely interested visitor. The
attendant was the richer by a five-franc piece when he retired to vigorously fall upon the
Major's hat and brush it in an anticipatory manner.

It was but a half an hour later when Alan Hawke had concluded his deftly worded compliments
upon the justly famed Institute, and had subjugated the still susceptible spinster by his adroitly
veiled flatteries. The easy aplomb with which he introduced the forgotten commission of Captain
Anstruther was aided by the presentation of that gentleman's visiting card, and the charms
of an interesting word sketch of Delhi and its surroundings.

The sound of distant girlish voices punctuated the refined murmur of the ensuing conference,
which was an exposition of Mademoiselle Delande's grand manner! Hawke adroitly soothed the
natural uneasiness of the cunning Swiss spinster as to her sister's comfort, safety, and the
surety of Hugh Johnstone's fabulously liberal money inducement to retain Miss Justine in his
service for a year. The flattered woman fell easily into Alan Hawke's net, and she freely dilated
upon the singular eccentricities of the Indian magnate as to his daughter's education.

There was a breaking light now illumining the strange childhood of a girl, nurtured by proxy,
and kept in ignorance of her brilliant future and vast monetary inheritance.

"In fact, I have never seen the honored Mr. Hugh Fraser," concluded Miss Euphrosyne. "Nadine
was brought to us a child of three by the wife of Professor Fraser, since deceased! And, by
special arrangement, she was taken by us, and her whole girlhood has been passed in our charge.
We have never seen her uncle, Professor Fraser, whose duties at Edinburgh University chained
him down. It was her own father's written and positive direction that no one, whomsoever, should
be admitted to converse with his child. And so Justine and myself have formed her entirely!"

Hawke's keen eyes glowed for a moment, in a secret satisfaction. "I have you, my lady! They
wished to keep you away from this young Peri, formed upon such heroically antique models."
Major Hawke gazed upon the leather-faced visage of the slaty-eyed woman, whose age none might
venture to guess. An artless admiration of the absent Miss Justine's photographed charms, caused
a faint glow to flicker upon the ancient maiden's cheek. When Alan Hawke drew forth a hideous
carbuncle and Indian filigree bracelet (an old relic of bazaar haunting), the thin lips of
the preceptress parted in a wintry smile.

With modest urging, he soon overcame the Roman firmness of Mademoiselle Euphrosyne, and, wonder
of wonders, was honored by an invitation to dine with the austere Genevan maiden. The happy
Major was soon triumphant at all points, and Francois was hastily dispatched to the Photographic
Atelier to order a half dozen copies of the card portrait which displayed to Alan Hawke the
rosebud face of the Veiled Beauty of Delhi. The adventurer made haste to excuse himself for
interrupting the flow of the Parnassian stream, and walked backward from the presence of the
poor old woman whom he had duped, as if she were a queen.

It was an easy matter for the Englishman to waylay and intercept the returning man-at-arms
of this castle of cosmopolitan beauty. Francois had duly availed himself of his lengthened
absence, and his thick tongue and swimming eye spoke of potations of the Kirsch-wasser dear
to the Swiss heart. Major Hawke impressed the servitor with the necessity of bringing the pictures
down to his rooms upon the morrow, and then the Major judiciously duplicated his five-franc
piece. The happy butler winked with an acute divination of the Major's purpose and went unsteadily
back to the whirlpool of learning. The Major cheerfully went on his own way to meet Miss Genie
Forbes, with whom he had established a private understanding as to a runaway visit to the Cathedral,
to be followed by an impromptu breakfast. "I can stand the old Gorgon's dinner," mused the
happy adventurer, "after a tete-a-tete with Miss Genie, and as for Francois, I will also waste
a bottle of good Cognac on him. I think that I will start into this strange partnership with
a better stock of family history than even this remarkably self-possessed young woman, who
seems to be the heiress of some old family vendetta."

The Major laughed as he heard the mills of the gods grinding out a golden grist of the future.
But lifted up beyond the impulses of his itching palm the sight of the delicate, girlish face
of the Rosebud of Delhi had caused him to dream the strangest dreams. "Why not?" he murmured
as he wandered back to the hotel and privately indulged in a petit verre before his rendezvous
with Miss Genie, the belle of the West Side. Major Alan Hawke was in "great form" as he piloted
the bright-eyed, willful Chicago girl through the dim religious light of the Cathedral. His
mocking history of the gay life and racy adventures of Bonnivard, when posing as the rollicking
Prior of St. Victor in the wild days of his youth, greatly amused the nervous American heiress.

"I should say that he was a holy terror," laughed Miss Genie, "and I don't blame the Bishop
of Geneva and the Duke of Savoy for making him do his six years in that dark old hole at Chillon!
He was a gay boy, you bet, and with his three wives and his lively ways, I reckon the Genevans
were blamed sorry they ever let him out. He seems to have been a free thinker, a free liver,
and a free lover!"

"And yet," mused Alan Hawke, "his writings to-day are the pride of Genevan scholars; his library
was the nucleus of the Geneva University; his defiant spirit broke the chains of Calvin's narrowness,
and his resistant, spiritual example caught up has made Geneva the home of the oppressed, the
central, radiant point of mental light and liberty for the world! Geneva since 1536 has harbored
the brightest wandering Spanish, French, English, and Irish youth! Even grim Russia cannot
reclaim from the free city its wayward exiles. France, in her distress, has found an asylum
here for its helpless nobles and expelled philosophers. I willingly take my hat off to brave
little Switzerland, where Royal Duke, proscribed patriot, mad enthusiast, bold agnostic, and
tired worldling can all find an inviolate asylum under the majestic shadows of its mountains--by
the shores of its dreaming lakes!" Alan Hawke dropped suddenly from the clouds as the practical
Miss Genie led the way to the breakfast rendezvous, cheerfully demonstrating her own bold ideas
of social freedom by remarking:

"Say! what's the matter with a little day's run up to Chillon? Phenie is game for anything!
You just get that other English Lord and we will dodge Popper and Mommer."

"I am sorry to say that my friend has left suddenly, bound for London," laughed the Major,
gazing admiringly at this pretty feminine Bonnivard.

"That's awful bad luck!" gloomily remarked Miss Genie. "He was a regular dandy, and I liked
him--but," she said, with a thirsty peck at a glass of champagne, as they waited for the breakfast,
"Phenie will then have to give that long-legged Italian fellow the tip. The Marquis of Santa
Marina! He's not much, but better than nothing at all. We'll have a jolly day!"

Major Hawke was mystified at the daring personal independence of the sprightly young heiress.
She was a social revelation to him, and the sunny afternoon was not altogether thrown away,
for they carelessly rambled over the proud old town together, doing all the sights. They visited
the stately National Monument, the Jardin Anglais, the Hotel de Ville, the Arsenal, the Muse'e
Foy, the Botanic Gardens, and the Athende. He gazed upon the fresh face of the rebellious young
American social mutineer with an increasing wonder as they wandered alone on the Promenade
des Bastions, and was simply astounded when he vainly tried to take advantage of a shady corner
in the Musee Ariana to steal a kiss from the wayward girl's rosy lips. Miss Genie "formed herself
into a hollow square" and calmly, but energetically, repulsed him.

"See here! Major Hawke!" she coolly said, "get off the perch! I don't care for any soft sawder!
I'm a pretty good fellow in my way, but I know how to take care of myself!"

In fact, Major Alan Hawke at last recognized the existence of a species of womanhood which
he had never before met. Miss Genie was frankly unconventional, and yet she was both hard-headed
and hardhearted. When he carefully dressed himself for the intellectual feast of Mademoiselle
Delande's "refined collation," he dimly became aware that the role of unpaid bear leader to
the Chicago girl simply amounted to being an unsalaried valet de place! "As for compromising
that devil of a girl," he growled, "she could have given the snake in the Garden of Eden long
odds and beaten him hollow, in subtlety." This view of the impeccability of the Chicago epidermis
was confirmed later when Hawke returned from the "Institute" at the decorous hour of ten that
evening. He was thoroughly happy, for the sly Francois was ready to meet him at the door, whispering:

"I will be at your rooms at ten, and bring you the photographs. I have a couple of hours of
freedom then."

Mademoiselle Euphrosyne's pale, anemic nature had bloomed out under the graceful attentions
of the gallant officer, and gradually she expanded, little by little unfolding the desiccated
leaves of her tranquil past, and, yielding, as of old, to the charm of youth and good looks,
the faded spinster told him all.

"I will sell my precious knowledge, bit by bit, to Madame Berthe," he ruminated. "Evidently
the Louison dares not face this stony-faced Swiss Medusa. The felites histoires of Francois
will fill up my mental notebook." Major Hawke then sat down at ease in the cafe of the Hotel
National to indite a dispatch of spartan brevity to "Madame Louison" at the Hotel Faucon, Lausanne.
"The Cook's Agency tell me that the London draft will be paid to-morrow. Francois will deliver
me the photographs, and relate his selected historical excerpts, and then I will be ready to
have a duel of wits with Madame Berthe." So he simply telegraphed to Lausanne:

"Successful--arrive to-morrow night." He then dispatched the head porter with the telegram,
and while enjoying his parting brandy and soda, was suddenly made aware of the near proximity
of Mr. Phineas Forbes of Chicago, who was anxiously drinking cocktail after cocktail in a moody
unrest. The lank Chicago capitalist waved his tufted chin beard dejectedly as he answered the
Briton's casual salutation. "I'm worried about the girls," he simply said. "They're off on
the lake, with the Marquis de Santa Marina and that French chap, the Count de Roquefort. I
don't more than half like it." The hour was late, and the heavy father glued his eyes upon
the darkened window pane. "Is Madame Forbes with them?" murmured the Englishman.

"Oh, Lord, no!" simply said the Illinois capitalist. "The girls are used to going out alone
with their gentlemen friends, but I'm afraid that these two damned useless foreigners will
upset the boat and drown my two girls. I wouldn't care a rap if they were alone. But these
Dago noblemen are no good--at least that's my experience. I indorsed a draft for one of them
that Mommer and the girls dragged up to the house last year. Came back marked 'N. G.'--I wish
to God the girls wouldn't pick up these fellows."

Alan Hawke hazarded the inquiry "Why do you permit it?"

The Chicago pork jammer thrust his hand in his pockets and whistled reflectively. "How the
deuce can I help it?" he reflectively answered, "Mother and the girls go in for high society.
What'll you have? You can talk French to this fellow. Now, order up the best in the house,"
Alan Hawke laughed and charitably divided the hour of long waiting with the simple-hearted
old father. At half-past twelve, with a rush and a flutter, the two young falcons sailed into
the main hallway and effusively bade adieu to their limp cavaliers, who slunk away, in different
directions, when they observed the disgruntled parent and the heartily amused Briton.

"So they brought you home safely?" calmly remarked Hawke, as he watched the happy father gathering
his chickens unto his wing.

"We brought them home safe," cutely remarked Miss Phenie. "Those fellows are heavenly dancers,
but they are not worth shucks in a boat. I wish we had had you out with us. I like Englishmen!"
with which frank declaration Miss Phenie and Miss Genie whisked themselves away to bed, Miss
Genie leaning over the banister to jovially cry out:

"Don't you go away till we fix up that Chillon trip." Major Hawke and Phineas Forbes, Esq.,
drank a last libation to the friendly god Neptune, the old man huskily remarking:

"Say, Major, those are two fine girls, and they will have a million apiece. I want 'em to be
sensible and marry Chicago men, but, they both go in for coronets and all that humbug." The
laughing Major extricated himself from the social tentacles of the honest old boy, mentally
deciding to play off Miss Genie against Mad-ame Berthe Louison.

"I will give these strange girls 'a day out.' It may reduce the nez retrousseeoi my mysterious
employer." And so he dreamed that night that he was an assistant presiding genius of the great
pig Golgotha, where Phineas Forbes was the monarch of the meat ax. "Right smart girls, and
you bet they can take care of themselves," was the last encomium of their self-denying parent
which rang in Alan Hawke's ears as he wandered away into the Land of Nod.

"They are a queer lot," laughed the happy schemer, as he woke next day to his closing labors
at Geneva. "Now, for my check cashing, then, Monsieur Francois, a farewell visit to Miss Euphrosyne,
and a secret council with the fair Genie," He merrily breakfasted, and was more than rewarded
for his Mephistophelian entertainment of Francois. The sly Figaro "parted freely," and when
he slunk back to the "Institute" he was the richer by fifty francs. Major Hawke was the happy
possessor of the coveted photographs, and a private address of Francois, artfully informing
that person that he was going to London, and on his return, in a few months, desired a cicerone
in the hypocritically placid town. Francois's eyes gleamed in a happy anticipation of more
Cognac and many easily earned francs. "Now, Madame Berthe, I think I have the key of the enigma!
I see a year's assured comfort before me, for I can play the part of the Saxon troops at Leipzig,"
the schemer joyously ruminated.

His farewell to Miss Delande impressed that thrifty dame with the golden fortunes which had
descended upon her sister. "Should you return to India, Major," she sibillated, "I will give
you a confidential letter to Justine, for I know there is no one more fitted to remain in charge
of sweet Nadine than my dear sister!" The Major blushingly accepted the honor, and directed
the letter to be sent at once to Morley's Hotel, for, as he mysteriously whispered,

"The Foreign office may send me back to India--in fact, I may be telegraphed for at any moment,
and your sister will surely find a fast friend in me."

"Easily gulled!" laughed Alan Hawke. "I will sweeten' upon Miss Justine; those thin lips indicate
the auri sacra fames. These miserly Swiss sisters may aid me to approach the veiled Rose Bird."
His delight at fingering the crisp proceeds of Anstruther's check sent him to the Ouchy steamer
in the very happiest of moods, and, his cup was running over when the birdlike Miss Genie Forbes
descended upon him to announce a meeting on the morrow at Montreux.

"We can do the castle, and essay the airy railroad at Territet Glion, have a jolly dinner on
the hill, and come home on the last boat! You be sure to meet Phenie and me." The astounded
Major murmured his delight and surprise. "Oh! Popper will let us go up there. He likes you--he
says that you are a thoroughbred. So, we'll cut the other fellows and come alone. Say, can't
you scare up another fellow like yourself for Phenie?" Whereat Alan Hawke laughed, and promised
to secure an eligible "fellow" among the migratory Englishmen hovering around Lausanne-Ouchy,
and he pledged a future friendship with the patient Phineas Forbes, who lingered in the cafe,
engulfing cocktails, while "Mother and Phenie were out shopping." The vivacious Genie had confided
to her callous swain that she had watched him as he lingered on Rousseau's Island.

"I rather thought that you were sick and distressed, you looked so peaked like, and I was mighty
near speaking to you. I was just bound to meet you." And upon this frank declaration, Alan
Hawke kissed her firm white hand, agreeing to her plans, and the glow of prosperity shone out
upon his impassive face, as he glided away to meet the strange woman whom he distrusted. "I
hold the trump cards now, my lady!" he cried, as he watched Miss Genie's handkerchief fluttering
on the quay. Major Alan Hawke wasted no time in his three hours' voyage to Lausanne-Ouchy in
carefully preparing for his interview with Madame Berthe Louison. He abandoned the idea of
trying the "whip hand," remembering how suddenly he had descended from the "high horse." "Bah!
She is about as sentimental as a rat-tail file. However, she is good for my passage to India,
at any rate, and, the nearer I am to old Johnstone and this pretty heiress to be, the better
my all-round chances are." So, he contented himself with watching the pictured shores of Lake
Leman glide by, and wondering if he might not turn aside safely to the chase of the bright-eyed,
sharp-featured, Miss Genie Forbes. He had profited by Phineas Forbes's frank disclosures, and
yet the Madame Sans Gene manners of the heiresses rather frightened him. He was aware from
the amatory failure in the dim old cathedral that Miss Genie was armed cap-a-fie. "Those American
girls, apparently so approachable, are all ready to stand to arms at a moment's notice." And
so, he drifted back in his day dreams toward the Land of the Pagoda Tree, with Ouchy and Chillon.
He studied the beautiful face of the lonely child from the school-girl photograph, and decided,
in spite of hideous frocks and a lack of conventional war paint, that she was a rare beauty.

"Yes! She will do--with the money. All she needs is the art to show off her points, and that
is easily gained. The recruits in Vanity Fair easily pick up the tricks of society, and old
Hugh's money and prospective elevation will surely draw suitors around like flies swarming
near the honey." The boat gracefully glided in to the port of Ouchy before Major Hawke's day
dream faded away.

A flattering dream which led him on to a future gilded by Sir Hugh Johnstone's money. He longed
to ruffle it bravely with the best. To hold up his head once more in official circles, and
to smother the ugly floating memories ef a renegade who had served those English guns under
the fierce Sikkim hill tribes against his one-time fellow soldiers. "I must have that money,
with or without the girl! There must be a way to it! I will cut through the barriers to get
it!" There was a steely glitter in his blue eyes as he murmured: "Now for the fox's hide! She
shall have her way--for a time! My play comes on later, when the deal is with me!"

He sprang lightly ashore, and was chatting with the gold-banded porter of the Hotel Faucon,
when a lovely face, thrilling in its awakened emotion, met his glance at the window of a carriage.
He dispatched his luggage to the Faucon, and sprang lightly in the carriage when the omnibuses
had departed for the Lausanne plateau. Alan Hawke was carefully differential in his greeting
and he meekly answered all the rapid queries of his mysterious employer.

"You have closed up your own private affairs?" she briskly queried.

"All is ready for the road in one day more. I have a private social engagement for to-morrow,"
he replied. "But I brought you all the sailing dates and the detailed information you requested."

"You obtained the pictures safely, then, and with a prudent caution," anxiously demanded Madame
Louison.

"You shall know all soon. I hope that I have satisfied you!" he said, handing her a packet,
failing to tell her that he had kept two pictures of the far-away girl for his own private
use. They were now near the plateau where the Hotel Faucon shows its semi-circular front to
the splendid panorama unrolled before its windows.

An afternoon concert was in progress at the Casino, near the local museum. "We will stop here
for a few moments," said the excited woman. "You can go on alone, and walk over to the hotel
and secure your own rooms. Then send your card up to me in the usual manner. To-night we will
go out separately and meet for a conference. We can arrange all our business." The Major bowed
submissively, and assisted the lady to alight.

Madame Louison dismissed her carriage, and the confederates-to-be entered the afternoon concert
room. A superb orchestra was playing the finishing bars of the last number on the program,
and the audience had dwindled away to a few knots of demure residents. Following his passive
policy, the adventurer sat silently, stealing oblique glances at his companion as she nervously
unfolded the wrappings of the coveted pictures. There was a gasp, a low moan, as the woman's
head fell back. Alan Hawke's strong arms were clasped round her, as she leaned back helplessly
in her fauteuil. But a smile of secret triumph was on his face as he quickly bore the helpless
form to an anteroom at once opened by the frightened ushers. Berthe Louison's face was corpse-like
in its pallor, as she lay there upon a divan, her fingers still clutching the photograph.

"There is a physician near by," hazarded a sympathetic woman who had crowded into the room.
The music had stopped with a crash.

"Summon him at once!" energetically ordered Hawke. "Some brandy--quick!" he cried, listening
to her agonized words, "Valerie! My God! It is Valerie herself! My poor sister!" In a few moments
an elderly man parted the assembling loiterers. His bustling air of command soon dispelled
the loiterers. A woman attendant was bending over the still senseless woman as the spectacled
medico seized Alan Hawke's arm. "Has your wife ever had a previous heart attack?" he gravely
asked, as he opened his lancet case. Major Hawke shook his head, and gazed pityingly upon the
beautiful pallid face before him.

"Can I be of any use to Monsieur?" demanded the chef d'orchestre in evening grand tenue, his
baton still in his hand.

There was a glance of wondering astonishment as the Englishman faced the speaker. "Wieniawski--Casimir,
you here?" The other dropped his voice as the physician ripped up the sleeve of the patient's gown.

"Major Hawke, I thought you were still in Delhi? Your wife--" faltered the artist, as he listened
to a low moan when the lancet blade entered the ivory arm of the sufferer. Then, with a backward
step, he pressed his hands to his brows. "My God! It is Alixe Delavigne!" he brokenly said.
But Hawke sprang to his side and quickly drew him from the room.

"Not a word! Not a single word to any one! Where are you stopping? I will come to you tonight!"
the excited man sternly said, his firm hand still clutching the musician's arm.

"Here, at the Casino! Come in after ten! I will await you! But where did you meet her?" the
Polish violinist cried, speaking as if in a dream.

"You shall know all later! I must get her to the hotel!" He returned to the physician's side,
who authoritatively cried, "Now an easy carriage and to the Faucon, you said?" In half an hour,
Berthe Louison was sleeping, a nurse at her side, while Alan Hawke counted the moments crawling
on till ten o'clock.

CHAPTER III. AND AT DELHI WHAT AM I TO DO?

Major Alan Hawke was the "observed of all observers," in the cosy salon of the Grand Hotel
Faucon, when the sympathetic hotel manager interrupted a colloquy between the handsome Briton
and the Doctor. "A mere syncope, my dear sir. Perhaps--even only the result of tight lacing,
or inaction. Perhaps some sudden nerve crisis. These are the results of the easy luxury of
an enervating high-life. All these social habits are weakening elements. Now, fortunately,
your wife has a singularly strong vital nature. You may safely dismiss all your fears. Madame
will be entirely herself in the morning."

"Can I be of any service?" demanded the genial host, secretly urged on by a coterie of curious,
womanly sympathizers in silk and muslin.

"I am the trustee of Madame Louison, in some important business matters, and not her husband,"
gravely remarked the Major. "I only came up here to confer with her upon some matters of moment."
Both the listeners bowed in silence.

"Then, my dear sir, you can be perfectly reassured," the physician briskly concluded, tendering
his card. "My professional conscience will not allow me to make even a single future visit,
as doctor, to the charming Madame Louison. Should Madame awake in other than her normal health
and spirits, I should be professionally at fault."

Major Hawke then led the doctor aside and pressed a five-pound note upon him. "Madame is of
a wonderfully strong constitution. An heiress of nature's choicest favors," the happy Galen
floridly said, as he took his leave.

"So she is," grimly assented Hawke.

The gossipy boniface was already spreading such meager details of the sudden seizure as he
had been able to pick up, and, the words "Polish noblewoman," "Italian marchesa," "French countess,"
were tossed about freely in the light froth of the conversation in the ladies' drawing-room.

Meanwhile, Alan Hawke was smoking a meditative cigar alone, while pacing the old Cantonal high
road before the Faucon. "I think I will remain on picket here," he mused. "This fiddler fellow,
Wieniawski, must not meet her. She must be led on to leave here at once. Constitution, nerve,
aplomb; she has them all. She should have been born a man. What a soldier! One of nature's
mistakes--man's mental organization, woman's soft, flooding emotions, and beauty's fiery passions."

"I must pump Casimir. He will be safely nailed to the platform by his duties, from eight to
ten. I will not leave her a moment, however, till he has the baton in his hand. I will then
watch him until ten--meet him down there, and, if he meets her after we separate for the night,
he is a smarter Pole than I take him for. And now I must go and frighten her away from here."

Major Hawke was quick to note all the outer indications of man's varying fortunes. He had so
long buffeted the waves of adversity himself that he was a past master of the art of measuring
the depth of a hidden purse. He recalled the brilliant Casimir Wieniawski of eight years past--the
curled darling of the hot-hearted ladies of Calcutta, Madras, Bombay and Singapore. In a glance
of cursory inspection Alan Hawke had noted the doubtful gloss of the dress suit; it was the
polish of long wear, not the velvety glow of newness. There was a growing bald spot, scarcely
hidden by the Hyperion Polish curls; there were crows'-feet around the bold, insolent eyes,
and the man's smile was lean and wolfish when the glittering white teeth flashed through the
professional smirk of the traveling artist. The old, easy assurance was still there, but cognac
had dulled the fires of genius; the tones of the violin trembled, even under the weakening
but still magic fingers, and the splendid sapphire and diamond cluster ring of old was replaced
by a too evident Palais Royal work of inferior art.

"Poor devil! It is the downward fluttering of the wearied eagle!" mused Alan Hawke. "Women,
roulette, champagne, and high life--all these past riches fade away into the gloomy pleasures
of restaurant cognac, dead-shot absinthe, and the vicarious smiles of a broken soubrette or
so! And all the more you can be now dangerous to me, Monsieur Casimir Wieniawski, for the old
maneater forgets none of his tricks, even when toothless."

Casimir, the handsome Pole, glib of tongue, the heir to a thousand minor graces, reckless in
outpouring the wine of Life, had truly gone the downward way with all the abandon of his showy,
insincere race. Hawke well knew the final level of misery awaiting the wandering, broken-down
artist here in a land where really fine music was a mere drug; where the orchestra was only
a cheap lure to enhance the cafe addition. The "Professor" was but a minor staff officer of
the grim Teutonic Oberkellner of the Brasserie Concert.

"But how shall I muzzle this Robert Macaire of the bow?" cogitated Hawke, as he anxiously eyed
the two windows of Madame Louison's rooms, and then sternly gazed at the open front doors of
the Hotel Faucon.

A light broke in upon his brain. "There is the golden lure of the Misses Phenie and Genie Forbes,
of Chicago, U. S. A. Those madcap girls will be easily gulled. They arrive to-morrow at nine.
A few stage asides, as to the stock romance of every Polish upstart, will do the trick!"

"Russian brutality, fugitive Prince, Siberian wanderings, romantic escape, killed the Russian
general who burned his chateau; all that sort of thing will enchant these. This may occupy
Casimir and leave me free. When the devil is idle he catches flies, and under the cover of
this rosy glow of romance I will get away to India, but only after Madame Alixe Delavigne goes.
I can afford to put in ten pounds on Casimir to loosen his lying tongue. In vino veritas may
apply even to a gallant and distinguished Pole. If I can get the true story of Alixe Delavigne's
life, then I have the key of the Johnstone mystery. Ah! There is now a duty signal for me!"
The Major smartly approached the main entrance of that cosiest of Swiss family hotels, the
Faucon, as the anxious face of a woman nurse appeared. "Madame veut bien voir Monsieur!" simply
announced the servant. Major Hawke brushed by her with a nod and quickly mounted the stair.
To his utter surprise, on entering Madame Berthe Louison's apartment, the signs of an approaching
departure were but too evident. A stout Swiss maiden was busied stolidly packing several trunks
in an indiscriminate haste, while the fair invalid herself sat at the center table poring over
an opened Baedeker and the outspread maps brought on by her "business agent." Hawke's murmured
astonishment was at once cut short by the decisive notes of Berthe Louison's flutelike voice.

"We have no time to waste, Major!" she said, with an affected cheerfulness. "I am all right
now. There is an eleven-thirty train for Constance. I will take that, reach Munich, and get
right over to Venice by the Brenner Pass, and thence go down to Aricona, and Brindisi. You
can return to Geneva, and, by Mont Cenis and Turin you will reach Brindisi before me. So, I
leave to-night; you can go up to Geneva to-morrow night. No one will possibly suspect our business
connection in this way. I will have time to see you depart for Bombay, before I take the steamer
for Calcutta. I have marked off the sailings. This little occurrence here to-night has brought
us both too much under the eyes of other people."

"Bah!" said the astounded Major. "No one knows anything of us here. We are of no importance."

"You think so?" mused the woman, as if careless of his presence. "And yet I have seen a face
here, rising out of a past that is long dead and buried. Now, are you ready to meet me at Brindisi?"

Alan Hawke blushed even through the sun-browned complexion of the Nepaul days, as the clear-eyed
woman, faintly smiling, discerned his "hedging" policy.

"You will not be put to the slightest inconvenience." She opened a handsome traveling bag.
The falcon-eyed Major Hawke observed the gleam of a pearl handled and silver chased revolver
of serviceable make, and there was also a very wicked-looking Venetian dagger lying on the
table, even then within the lady's reach! "Here is the sum of five hundred pounds in English
notes," said Berthe. "That will neatly take you to Delhi, and there is fifty more to liquidate
my bill, and pay the medical expenses. I am not desirous that the landlord should know of my
departure. You may bring all my trunks on. I will be waiting for you at the 'Vittorio Emmanuele'
at Brindisi. Please do telegraph to me from Turin of your arrival."

Cool globe-trotter as he was, Alan Hawke was speechless. "Shall I not see you safely on board
the Constance train?" he muttered.

"The nurse will attend to all that; money will do a great deal," the lady said. "I will send
her back from Constance. Please do ring the bell." The Major was obedient, and he listened
in dumb astonishment, as Madame Louison ordered a very dainty supper for two, with a bottle
of Burgundy and a well-iced flask of Veuve Cliquot. When the door had closed upon the gaping
servant, the lady merrily laughed:

"Pray take up your sinews of war, Major. I shall consider you as retained in my service, if
I am obeyed."

Alan Hawke turned and faced the puzzling "employer" with a half defiant question: "And when
shall I know the real nature of my duties?" as he carefully folded up the welcome bundle of
notes, without even looking at them.

"Major, you are not an homme d'affaires. Do me the favor to count your money," laughed the
mocking convalescent. "Thank you," continued the lady as he obeyed her. "Now I will only detain
you here till ten o'clock. Then you must disappear and not know me again until we meet at the
Hotel Vittorio Emmanuele at Brindisi. Should any accident occur, you are to take the Sepoy
for Bombay direct and go on to Delhi. Leave me a letter at Suez and also one at Aden, care
P. and O. Company. I will ask at each of these places. I will go direct to Calcutta, and will
then meet you at Delhi. Arriving at Delhi, you may telegraph to me care Grindlay & Co., Calcutta."

"I wonder if she bled Anstruther," inwardly growled Hawke, as he recognized the name of that
social butterfly's bankers. But the lady only sweetly continued: "I have some business in Calcutta.
You can write to me at the general postoffice at Allahabad, and leave your Delhi address there.
I shall probably telegraph for you to come down and meet me there."

Major Hawke, neatly entering the lady's directions in a silver-clasped betting book, murmured
lazily without lifting his eyes: "You seem to know a great deal about Hindostan."

"I have made a careful study of it for years--long years," said the woman with a telltale flush
of color, as the servants entered with the impromptu feast.

They were left alone, at an imperious signal, and Madame Louison bade Hawke regale himself
en garcon. The Major paused with suspended pencil, as he quietly approached the decisive question:
"And at Delhi, what am I to do?"

"You are to take up your old friendship with Hugh Fraser--this budding baronet," replied Berthe
calmly. She was pouring out a glass of the wine beloved of women, but her hand trembled as
she hastily drank off the inspiring fluid. "All this is bravo--mere bravo! She's a very smart
woman, and a cool customer!" decided the schemer, who had filled himself up a long drink. He
took up at once the object-lesson. They were simply to be comrades--and nothing more.

"I will obey you to the very letter," he said simply, for he was well aware the woman was keenly
watching him.

"Then that is all. There is nothing more," soberly concluded his companion. "The letters at
Suez and Aden are, of course, to be mere billets de voyage. The correspondence at Allahabad
may cover all of moment. Can you not give me a safe letter and telegraph address at Delhi?"

"Give me your notebook," said Alan Hawke, as he carefully wrote down the needed information:
"Ram Lal Singh, Jewel Merchant, 16 Chandnee Chouk, Delhi."

"There's the address of my native banker; and as trusty a Hindu as ever sold a two-shilling
strass imitation for a hundred-pound star sapphire. But, in his way he is honest--as we all
are." And then Alan Hawke boldly said: "How shall I address you at Allahabad?"

The flashing brown eyes gleamed a moment with a brighter luster than pleasure's glow. "You
have my visiting card, Major," the woman coldly said. "I travel with a French passport, always
en regie."

"By God! she has the nerve!" mused Alan Hawke, as he hastily said: "And now, as we have settled
all our little preliminaries, when am I to know whether you trust me or not?"

He was pressing his advantage, for her precipitate departure would rob him of the expected
effect of Casimir Wieniawski's disclosures. "If I find you en ami defamille, at Delhi, so that
you can confidentially approach Sir Hugh Johnstone, the ci-devant Hugh Fraser, your task will
be soon set for you, and your reward easily earned; but under no circumstances are you to make
the slightest attempt to a confidential acquaintance with this wonderful Nadine. That is my
affair." The tone was almost trifling in its lightness, but Alan Hawke recognized the hand
of iron in the velvet glove.

"And now, Sir," coquettishly said Madame Berthe Louison, "you have been a squire of dames in
your day. Tell me of social India, for, while I shall get a good maid out at Calcutta, I must
depend upon Munich, Venice, and Brindisi for my personal outfit. I know the whole United Kingdom
thoroughly. The Englishman and his cold-pulsed blonde mate at home are well-learned lessons.
The Continent, yes, even Russia, I know, too," she gayly chattered; "but the Orient is as yet
a sealed book to me, and I would be helpless in Father India, without the womanly gear appropriate
to the social habits of your countrywomen."

"You have lived in England?" briefly demanded Alan Hawke, in some surprise at her frank admissions.

"Yes, too long!" sternly answered Madame Louison, who was enjoying a cigarette, as she signed
to the maid to leave them alone. "I detest the foggy climate," she added, a little late to
temper the bitterness of the remark.

"I will lull this watchful feminine tiger," the Major secretly decided, as he began a brilliant
sketch of the social life of the strange land of Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva. "I presume, of course,
that you do not care to appear with a fifty-pound Marshall & Snell grove outfit, as if you
were the wife of an Ensign in a marching regiment. I will give you the real life our women
lead out there. You could have secured a splendid London outfit by a little time spent in making
the detour."

"I wish to appear en Francaise, my true character," smiled Berthe. "I never could sacrifice
my Gaelic taste to the hideous color mixtures and utilitarian ugliness of the English machine-made
toilette. An Englishwoman can only be trusted with a blue serge, a plain gray traveling dress,
or in the easy safety of black or white. They are not the 'glass of fashion and the mold of
form.' Now, Sir, let me see how you have profited by your wandering in Beauty's gardens on
the Indus and Ganges?"

Alan Hawke knew very well at heart what the quickwitted woman would know. He sketched with
grace, the natural features, the climatic conditions, the bizarre scenery of the million and
a half square miles where the venerable Kaisar-i-Hind rules nearly two hundred millions of
subjugated people. He portrayed all the light splendors of Mohammedan elegance, the wonders
of Delhi and Agra, he sketched the gloomy temple mysteries of Hinduism, and holy Benares rose
up before her eyes beneath the inspiration of his brilliant fancy.

The ardent woman listened with glowing eyes, as Hawke proudly referred to the wonderful sweep
of the sword of Clive, which conquered an unrifled treasure vault of ages, annexed a giant
Empire, and set with Golconda's diamonds the scepter of distant England. The year 1756 was
hailed by the renegade as the epoch when England's rule of the sea became her one vitalizing
policy--her first and last national necessity--for the Empire of the waves followed the pitiful
beginning in Madras.

Temples, groves, and mosques peopled with the alien and warring races were conjured up, the
splendid viceregal circle, the pompous headquarter military, the fast set, staid luxury-loving
civilians, and all the fierce eddies and undercurrents of the graded social life, in which
the cold English heart learns to burn as madly under "dew of the lawn" muslin as ever Lesbian
coryphe'e or Tzigane pleasure lover.

The burning noons, the sweltering Zones of Death, the cool hills, the Vanity Fair of Simla,
the shaded luxury of bungalow life, and the mad undercurrent of intrigue, the tragedy element
of the Race for Wealth, the Struggle for Place, and the Chase for Fame. Major Alan Hawke was
gracefully reminiscent, and in describing the social functions, the habits of those in the
swim, the inner core of Indian life under its canting social and official husk, he brought
an amused smile to the mobile face of his beautiful listener. He did not note the passage of
time. He could now hear the music floating up from the Casino below. He had answered all her
many questions. He described pithily the voyage out, the social pitfalls, the essence of "good
Anglo-Indian form," and he was astonished at the keenness of the questions with which he was
plied by his employer.

"You have surely traveled in India," he murmured, when his relation flagged.

"So I have, by proxy, and, in imagination," laughed Madame Berthe Louison, as she demurely
held up her jeweled watch. "Ten minutes more, and then, Sir, I shall give you your ordre de
route. For, I must go quietly. I trust to your experience and good judgment. There is nothing
to say here. There will be no letters. My bankers have their orders. You must simply pay our
bill, and depart quietly via Geneva. May I ask if you wish any more money? Some personal needs?"

Major Hawke shook his head. "You may rely on me to meet you, and to faithfully obey you," he
gravely said. There were unspoken words trembling on his lips, which he fain would have uttered.
"By Heavens! She is a witch!" he murmured, in a repressed excitement, as he walked quietly
down the hallway to keep his tryst with Casimir Wieniawski. For Berthe Louison had at once
divined the cause of his unrest.

"You think that I should tell you more? Why should I tell you anything? We are strangers yet,
not even friends. You may divine that I trust no man. I have had my own sad lessons of life-lessons
learned in bitterness and tears. I go out to your burning jungle land, with neither hope to
allure, nor fear to repel. The whole world is the same to me. That I have a purpose, I admit;
and even you may know me better by and bye! Till then, no professions, no promises, no pledges.
I use you for my own selfish purposes, that is all; and you can frankly study your own self-interest.
We are two clay jars swept along down the Ganges of life. For a few threads of the dark river's
current, we travel on, side by side! You have frankly taken me at my word! I have taken you
at yours! There is a written order to settle my affairs and remove my luggage. Of course, should
you meet with any accident, telegraph to the Vittorio Emmanuele, at Brindisi. Money," she said,
almost bitterly, "would be telegraphed; and so, I say"--he listened breathlessly--"au revoir--at
Brindisi!" she concluded, giving him her hand, with a frank smile.

As Alan Hawke descended the stair, he growled. "A woman without a heart, and--not without a
head!" As he calmly answered the manager's polite inquiry for Madame's health, the "heartless
woman" whom he had left was lying sobbing in the dark room above--crying, in her anguish, "Valerie!
My poor, dead Valerie! I go to your child!"

But, none suspected her departure, when the trimly-clad woman glided out of the entrance of
the Hotel Faucon, at eleven o'clock. The maid was in waiting on the circular place in front
with a carriage, and the key of the apartment lay in a sealed envelope on Alan Hawke's table,
which proves that a few francs are just as potent in Switzerland as the same number of shillings
in London, or dollars in New York. It was a clear case of "stole away."

When Major Alan Hawke leaned over the supper table at the Casino, pledging Madame Frangipanni's
bright eyes in very fair cafe champagne, he nervously started as he heard the wailing whistle
and clanging bells of the through train for Constance. He forgot the faded complexion, the
worn face, the chemically tinted hair and haggard eyes of the broken-down Austrian blonde concert
singer, in the exhilaration of Berthe Louison's departure.

For he had not lost Professor Casimir Wieniawski from sight a moment since the hour of ten,
and that "distinguished noble refugee" was now in a maudlin way, murmuring perfunctory endearments
in the ear of the ex-prima donna, who tenderly gazed upon him in a proprietary manner. Alan
Hawke had judged it well to ply the champagne, and, at the witching hour of midnight, he critically
inspected Casimir's condition. "He is probably about tipsy enough now to tell all he knows,
and, with an acquired truthfulness. I will, therefore, bring this festive occasion to a close."
Whereat the watchful Lucullus of the feast artfully drew Madame Frangipanni aside.

"I have to go on to London, Chere Comtesse," he flatteringly said, "you must give me Casimir
for a couple of hours to-night, to talk over the old times."

He lingered a moment, hat in hand, as he chivalrously sent Madame Frangipanni home in a carriage.
The poor old singer's bosom was thrilled with a sunset glow of departing greatness, as she
lingered tearfully that night over the memories of the halcyon days when the officers of Francis
Joseph's bodyguard had fought for the honors of the carriage courtesies of the Diva. Eheu fugaces!

Closeted together, the minor guests having been artfully dispersed, Major Alan Hawke and his
friend recalled the olden glories of Wieniawski's Indian tour. It was with a jealous hand that
Hawke doled out the cognac, until Casimir abruptly said: "And now, mon ami, tell me what has
linked you to Alixe Delavigne?" Alan Hawke had keenly studied his man, and found that the limit
of the artist's drinking capacity seemed to be infinity, and so he leaned back and coldly scrutinized
the musician's shabby exterior. "I think that I can risk it now," he mused, and then, in a
crisp, hard voice, he suddenly said: "I don't mind parting with a twenty-pound note, Casimir,
if you will tell me all you know about that beauty. You need it now--more than I. I am to be
the judge of the value of your story, however. Mark me, I know the main features, but I also
know that you have met her in the old days." The broken-down artist flushed under the changed
relation of guest and paid tool.

He uneasily stammered, as he filled a brandy glass, "As a loan--as a loan!" But Hawke was sternly
business-like in his reply.

"Don't make any pretenses with me. You are hard down on your luck, and you know it. This is
a mere matter of business." He unfolded a bundle of notes and carelessly tossed two ten-pound
notes over to Casimir, who seized them with trembling fingers. The pitiful sum represented
to the artist two months of his meager salary. Here was absinthe unlimited, a little roulette,
a new frock for Madame Frangipanni, perhaps even a dress coat for himself.

"How old do you think Alixe is?" unsteadily began the artist.

"I should say about twenty-five," gallantly replied the Major.

"We will premise that she is thirty-three," confidently began the musician, "or even thirty-five.
When I was a young fool at Warsaw, eighteen years old," he babbled. "I was the local prodigy.
My first essays in public were, of course, concerts, and I was soon the vogue. And, later,
asked as an artistic guest to the chateaux of the nobility in Poland, Kowno, Vitebsk, Wilna,
Minsk, Grodno and Volhynia. I was a poet in thought, a lover of all womankind in my dreams,
and a conspirator in the inmost chambers of my defiant Polish nature."

"They made me the cat's-paw of adroit adventurers who were filling their pockets from wealthy
Polish sympathizers in France and America, and some of them were Russian paid spies. I braved
all the risks. I was the secret means of communication of the highest circles of our cult of
Rebellion. Fool that I was, wandering from province to province, I lived the life of a mad
enthusiast. The proud memories of Poland were mine, the spirit of her music, arts, and poetry
had cast its witchery over me. Her history, the tragedy of a crownless queen of sorrows, had
transported me into a dreamy idealism. I was soon the confidant of our seductive mobile Polish
beauties. Sinuous, insincere, changeful, passionate, and burning with the flames of Love and
Life, I was, at once, their idol and their plaything, their hero, and their willing slave.

"For then, the spirit of old Poland rang out in my numbers, and I waked the quivering echoes
of woman's heart at will. It was in seventy-three that I was sent on a special mission to Prince
Pierre Troubetskoi's splendid chateau at Jitomir in Volhynia. The crafty Russians were watching
us even there, and were busied in assembling troops secretly, at Kiev and Wilna. To another
was given the proud place of secret spy over the higher circles of Wilna, while my duty was
to watch Jitomir and Kiev. Troubetskoi was a bold gallant fellow, an ardent Muscovite, and
had secretly returned from a long sojourn in Paris. He was in close touch with the Governors
of Volhynia, Kiev, and Podolia, and we feared his sword within, his Parisian connections without.
An evil star brought me into his household as his guest. For nearly a year I was kept vibrating
between the points of danger to us, my personal headquarters being at the Chateau of Jitomir.
And there I lived out my brief heart-life, for there I met Valerie Troubetskoi. No one seemed
to know where Pierre had found her, but later I learned her story from her own lips.

"That is, all of the story of a woman's heart-life which is ever unveiled to any man! She was
beautiful beyond--compare, her wistful tenderness shining out as the moon, softer than the
fierce noonday glare of the passion-transfigured faces of our Polish beauties. For they loved,
for Love's own sake, and Valerie Troubetskoi offered up the chalice of her own heart in silent
sadness. I never saw so lovely a being."

"Did she look like that?" suddenly demanded Hawke, thrusting a photograph before the haggard
eyes of the broken artist. He gasped, and tears gathered in his lashes. "Valerie, herself,
and, as I knew her only before her fatal illness had marked her down. Did Alixe give you this?"
He clutched at it with his trembling hands.

"Go on," harshly said Alan Hawke, "the hour is late!"

The Pole buried his face in his thinned hands, and then brokenly resumed: "The old story--the
only one you know. She was about my own age; Troubetskoi was nearly always away; perhaps he
thought to trap all my traitorous circle through me, or else he was in the secret service of
the hungry Russian eagle. Valerie roamed silently through the great halls of Jitomir, saddened
and lonely, for their union was childless. My heart spoke to her own in my music; she knew
the prayer of my soul, though my lips were silent. For I madly adored her. Then, then, I was
a man! My life belonged to Poland, my soul to art, but my heart was a sealed temple of love,
a temple where Valerie, the beloved, the secretly worshiped, sat alone on her throne.

"One day a woman, radiant in youth, and reflecting Valerie's own beauty, was brought to the
chateau by Troubetskoi, who had journeyed on to Vienna. It was Alixe Delavigne, the woman whom
I saw last with you. A month later Valerie called me to her side: 'My poor Casimir,' she said,
as I knelt at her feet, 'I am dying! The struggle will not be a long one. I know the secret
of your boyish heart. Your eyes have spoken and your music has reached my heart. Your love
is written in your songs without words. When you have forgotten me, there is Alixe; she is
alone upon earth. Let me seal your heart to hers, and even in death I shall feel that I love
you both.' Then," the artist sobbed, "I lost my head. I told her all in mad, burning words.
She raised her eyes to mine, and softly said: 'I shall see you no more unless Alixe is with
us, for I love Pierre and he loves me. When I am gone, Alixe will be the only one who knows
the secret of my life.'

"It was two months later--for I would not leave her side, even Pierre Troubetskoi could not
see her passing away, for it was a mysterious malady--when a sudden alarm brought me to my
senses. My secret society work was done, and yet I lingered there, at the very steps of the
scaffold. Alixe Delavigne burst into my room at midnight.

"'Hasten!' she cried. 'Even now the Cossacks are surrounding the house!' She let me out through
the secret passage of the old Chateau. A cloak was thrown over me by the Intendant. He was
a Pole--and one true to the old blood. Alixe pressed a purse upon me. An address in Paris was
whispered. 'I will write! Go! For Valerie's sake, go!'

"Forty-eight hours later I crossed the Galician frontier at Lemberg disguised as a Polish peasant.
My guardian, the Intendant, turned me over to our friends in the valley of the Styr. After
six months of wandering, I finally reached Paris in safety. There were sorrowful letters awaiting
me. Valerie was hidden forever in the yawning tombs of the gloomy old chapel of Jitomir, and
Alixe herself wrote of Pierre Troubetlskoi's generous blinding of the pursuit. I was, however,
prosecuted and hunted. I fled to America, for all our plans of revolt were miserably wrecked--and
by Polish traitors!

"Two years later, I learned from a fellow refugee that Pierre Troubetskoi had been killed by
accident in a great forest battle. And to Alixe Delavigne, all the wealth which would have
been Valerie's was left by the lion-hearted man who awoke too late to the early doom of his
beloved.

"I knew naught of the family history save that the sisters were the daughters of Colonel Delavigne,
a gallant French officer, who was murdered by the Communists in seventy-one." Alan Hawke was
now sternly eyeing the musician, who abruptly concluded: "I have never met Alixe Delavigne
since. I dare not return to Poland. My own course has been steadily downward, and, beyond knowing
that she still possesses the splendid domains of Jitomir, we are strangers to each other. Polish
refugees have told me that she has always administered the vast estate with liberal kindness
to all. And now you will tell me of her?" The tremulous hand of Wieniawski raised a brimming
glass of brandy to his lips. He stared about vacantly when Hawke said:

"Madame Delavigne left Lausanne this evening on a special mission. Her life is a sealed book
to all, and a mere business interest has drawn us together." The Englishman went callously
on: "There are a couple of mountainously rich American girls coming down here to-morrow at
nine o'clock to spend the day at Chillon with me. I need a running mate. Will you then meet
me at the Montreux Landing? You can have a day off, and these young fools are fat pigeons,
ardent, and enthusiastic." Hawke saw the hesitation on the man's face.

"You can say to Madame Frangipanni that you are with me and that I will explain later at the
dinner." With a glance at his watch, Alan Hawke rang for the Oberkellner. He was extending
his hand in goodnight, when the refugee cried imploringly, "I must see her once more! Tell
me of her journey!" and Major Hawke deliberately lied to the poor vaurien artist, the wreck
of his better self. "The through train to Paris is her only address. I presume that Madame
Delavigne will spend some time in a sanitarium after this heart attack, and she has my banker's
address. It is only through them that we meet to arrange some affairs of business. Whether
maid, wife, or widow, I know not, for you know what women are--sealed books to their enemies,
and to their husbands and lovers--only enigmas!

"But fail not to meet me. I'll give you a pleasant day. You will find the two Americans both
gushing and susceptible." Then as Major Alan Hawke stepped lightly away to the sedately closed
Hotel Faucon, Casimir Wieniawski staggered back into the cafe.

His fit of passionate sorrow was brief, for in a half hour he was the king of a mad revel,
where his meaner sycophants divided Alan Hawke's bounty. The cool Major strode along happy
hearted to his rest, quietly revolving the plan of campaign.

"There was then a sealed chapter in Valerie Troubetskoi's life. And the key of that is in Berthe
Louison's keeping. Now, my fair employer, it is diamond cut diamond. I think that I have done
a fair day's work." And he thanked his lucky stars for the precipitate flight of his mysterious
employer. "She evidently feared the noble Casimir following upon the trail. Strange--strange
pathways! Strange footprints on the sands of Time! It is a devilish funny world, but, after
all, the best that we have any authentic account of." And so he slept the sleep of the just,
for he was making the woes of others the cornerstones of his newer fortunes.

Major Hawke arose with the lark, by a previous arrangement with the Hotel Bureau. His face
was eminently businesslike in its gravity, as he summoned the porter and dispatched all his
luggage to the care of the Chef du Gare, Geneva. "Business of extreme importance awaiting upon
Madame's complete recovery had caused her to depart to consult an eminent specialist. Thank
you, there will be no letters," said the Major, as he pocketed both receipted bills. He amused
himself while watching for the morning boat, as the mountain mists, lifting, revealed the glittering
lake, in sending a very carefully sketched letter to Mademoiselle Euphrosyne Delande, No. 123
Rue du Rhone, Geneva. This letter was of such moment that it went on to London, to be posted
back duly stamped with good Queen Victoria's likeness. A very careful Major!

The lofty semi-official tone, in which the writer spoke of a possible return to India "under
the auspices of the Foreign Office," was well calculated to fill the spinster's bosom with
the flattering unction that a mighty protector had been raised up for the adventurous Justine,
now supposed to be environed with all the glittering snares of society, as well as enveloped
in the mystic jungle.

A week later, when Euphrosyne Delande laid down the pen and abandoned her unfinished "Lecture
Upon the Influence of the Allobroges, Romans, Provencal Franks, Burgundians, and Germans Upon
the Intellectual Development of Geneva," she read Alan Hawke's letter with a thrill of secret
pride.

The smooth adventurer had written: "If I have the future pleasure of meeting Mademoiselle Justine
Delande I only hope to find a resemblance to her charming and distinguished sister. As my movements
are necessarily secret, pray write only in the utmost confidence to Mademoiselle Justine. I
hope to soon return and enjoy once more the hospitalities of your intellectual circle." The
address given for India was "Bombay Club." Miss Euphrosyne gazed up at the stony lineaments
of Professor Delande, her marble-browed and flinty-hearted sire, locked in the cold chill of
a steel engraving. He was as neutral as the busts of Buffon, Cuvier, Laplace, Humboldt, and
Pestalozzi, which coldly furnished forth her sanctum. She thought of the eloquent eyed young
Major and sadly sighed. She proceeded to enshrine him in her withered heart, and then wrote
a crossed letter of many tender underlinings to her distant sister. And thus the pathway was
made very smooth for the artful wanderer, who had already stepped upon the decks of the Sepoy.

Major Hawke had dispatched an excellent breakfast before he stepped into the carriage to be
whirled away to Montreux. His bridges were burned behind him. There was not a vestige of Madame
Berthe Louison left to give the needy Pole a clue. "They are separated, and Anstruther and
the Swiss schoolmistress are harmless. I have only my play to make upon the lovely Justine,
and to retake up my old friendship with Hugh Fraser. Then I am ready to bit by bit unravel
the story of Valerie Delavigne's child--the Veiled Rose of Delhi."

"Between a father with a secret to keep, and this strange woman with a purpose, there is a
pretty girl and a vast fortune at issue, besides the prospective pickings of Madame Berthe
Louison." These musings of the Major led him up to the question of his employer's false name,
as he swept down to the nearby Montreux station. "She evidently had traced the child to Switzerland,
and was upon a still hunt to find out the home of the growing heiress, and,--for what purpose?
Ah! One day after another," he pleasantly exclaimed, as he saw the artist awaiting him. "Peu
apeu I'oiseau fait son nid." He had already evolved a scheme to permanently separate Casimir
Wieniawski from his own beautiful employer, who was now dashing along well on her way toward
Munich. Alan Hawke was startled at the distinguished appearance of the musician. An aristocratic
pallor refined his face, he was neatly booted and gloved, the elegant lines of the Pole's supple
figure were displayed in a morning frock coat, and his chapeau de soie was virginal in its gloss.

"Some of my own twenty pounds," mused Alan Hawke, as he gayly sprang out and saluted his dupe.
"Ah! There you are. You look to-day the old Casimir. Let us have a few last words before the
boat arrives."

Hardened as he was, Alan Hawke was surprised at the childlike lightness of the Pole's manner
when they encountered the fresh young beauties who were already the cynosure of all eyes upon
the morning boat. The storm of emotion had spent itself, and while Alan Hawke squired, the
aggressive Miss Genie, Casimir Wieniawski was bending over the slightly dreamy and more romantic
Miss Phenie! They distributed themselves in open order, as they strolled along toward the drawbridge
of that most hospitable of old horrors, Chillon Castle.

It was a day of days, and the artful Hawke laughed as he smoked his cigar upon a rustic bench
in the castle Garden. Miss Genie was at his side, pouting, petulant, provokingly pretty and
duly agnostic as to the Polish prince.

A week later, Alan Hawke stood on the deck of the Sepoy, as that reliable vessel steamed out
of Brindisi harbor for Bombay. He was watching a lace handkerchief, waved by a graceful woman,
standing alone upon the pier. The adventurer drew a silver rupee from his pocket, and then
gayly tossed it into the waves, crying, "Here's for luck!" as he watched the slender, distant,
womanly figure move up the pier. There lay the Empress of India with steam now curling from
her stacks, ready to follow on to Calcutta. "I have not broken her lines yet," murmured Major
Hawke as he paced the deck, "but I have her pretty well surrounded, cunning as she is!" and
so he complacently ordered his first bottle of pale ale.

CHAPTER IV. THE VEILED ROSEBUD OF DELHI

The October winds were whirling the pine needles down the mountain defiles in the bracing Alpine
autumn, as Alan Hawke sped on past Suez, gliding on through the stifling furnace heat of the
Red Sea, past Mocha, and dashing along through the Bridge of Tears, to Aden. He left at Suez,
and also at the Eastern Gibraltar of haughty Albion, the brief letters for his mysterious employer,
and he mentally arranged the social gambit of his reappearance at Delhi in the nine days before
the Sepoy steamed into the island-dotted bay of Bombay.

Sternly shunning, on his arrival, the local sirens, whose songs of old fell so sweetly upon
his ear, the determined Major sped away at once for Allahabad. He was on shaking social quagmires
at Bombay. There were sundry little threads of the past still left hanging out in the shape
of stray urban indebtedness, and he now scorned to throw away a single one of the crisp Bank
of England notes showered upon him by Fortune. He was growing sadly wise. He had lately mused
over the old motto, "Lucky at cards--unlucky in love!" The cool provision of the funds at Lausanne
by Berthe Louison, her separate route to Delhi, her business-like coldness in their strangely
frank relations, all these things proved to him that he was to be only an intelligent tool;
not a trusted friend in the little drama about to open at the old capital of Oude.

Alan Hawke had already abandoned the idea of any sentimental advances upon Alixe Delavigne.
"Strange, strange," he murmured; "a woman can sometimes easily be flattered into a second conjugation
of the verb 'To Love,' but an internal previous evidence of man's unreliability can do that
which no personal sorrow can effect. The key to this woman's behavior is in the story of her
sister's shadowed life.

"The hiatus from Hugh Fraser to Pierre Troubetskoi covers the tragedy of Valerie Delavigae's
life, the death blow was then struck, and the central figure is the child. So, with the strangely
acquired fortune at her beck and call, Alixe Delavigne has consecrated herself to that most
illogical of human careers--a woman's silent vengeance! That achieved, will the furnace fires
of her stormy heart be lit by the hand of passion?"

He ruminated sagely over these matters as he sped on over the Great Indian Peninsula Railway.
The western Ghauts were now far behind him and their dark basalt crags. Bombay, Hyderabad,
Berar, the Central Provinces, Central India, and the southern prong of Oude was reached. He
was, however, no whit the wiser when he reached the Ganges and hastily sought the telegraph
station at Allahabad. But he felt like a prince in the direct line of succession with his net
eight hundred pounds still to the good. His first care was to telegraph to Madame Berthe Louison,
to the care of Grindley, at Calcutta: "Waiting at Allahabad for your letters, and news of your
safe arrival." While rushing past the Vindhia Mountains he had encountered several of his old
Indian acquaintances. The mere hint of a secret governmental employ of gravity satisfied the
languid curiosity of the qui hais. For a week he lingered in the "City of God," and daily haunted
the post and telegraph offices.

He had sent on to the Delhi Club a note for the maw of the local gossips, and also had dispatched
a skillfully constructed letter to the unsuspecting Hugh Johnstone. With a veiled flattery
of the old civilian's wisdom and experience, he referred to his desire to consult him as to
a secret journey in the direction of the Pamirs. The opportune windfall of Anstruther's ecarte
and Berthe Louison's liberal advance enabled Major Alan Hawke to maintain a dignified and easy
port as he wandered through Allahabad. Strolling by the waters of the Ganges and Jumna, he
invoked anew the blessings of the goddess Fortuna, as he gazed out upon the majestic heaven
descended stream. The daily tide of travel toward Delhi brought on each day some familiar faces,
and yet Alan Hawke lingered gently, declining their traveling company. "Waiting orders," he
said, with the sad, sweet smile of one enjoying a sinecure. His swelling outward port thoroughly
proved that the days were gone when he was to be scanned before the morning salutation. Les
eaux sout basses, the impecunious Frenchman mourns, but there was a swelling tide bearing Alan
Hawke onward now.

A hearty welcoming letter from the ci-devant Hugh Fraser was a good omen, for rumor of a thousand
tongues had already invested the returning Major with an important secret mission. His epistolary
seed planted in Delhi had brought forth fruit as rapidly as the magic of the Indian conjuror's
mango-tree trick. It was already rumored even in Allahabad that "Hawke had dropped upon a decidedly
good thing." The Major was busied, however, in analyzing the motives of Alixe Delavigne, in
her change of name, her separate journey, her choice of the Calcutta route, and the inner nature
of her projected enterprise.

"A woman in her position, easy as to fortune, will stoop to none of the arts of the blackmailer;
she could choose a life of soft luxury, for she is yet in the bloom of vigorous early womanhood.
To her the personality of Hugh Fraser is surely nothing. There are but two objects of attack--his
proposed social elevation, the nattering title, and the peace of mind and future of the daughter,
this lovely veiled Rose! Love, a natural love, even for the stranger child, would ward away
the blow; but only an unslaked vengeance would point the shaft! The reproduction of her sister's
face seemed to touch her to her very bosom's core. There is some fixed purpose in this cold-hearted
woman's coming! Not a lingering annoyance, but some coup de main, a bolt to be launched at
Hugh Johnstone alone!"

"I do not know how I can break her lines, unless she shows me some weak point," he mused. "But
either her fortune or Johnstone's shall yield me a heavy passing toll. And, there is always
the girl! There, I would have to meet Berthe Louison as a determined enemy!" In recognizing
the fact that his employer must make the game at last, that she must lead out and so uncover
herself, he saw his own masterly position between the two prospective foes.

