So great was his respect for authority and tradition that he clung to views regarding the unity
of Homer and the historical claims of Christian sacerdotalism which the majority of competent
specialists have now rejected.  But the color which these Oxford years gave to his mind and
thoughts was never obliterated.  They became part of the texture of his own political character,
and in his case, as in that of Peel, they sometimes brought censure upon him, as having withheld
too long from the public views or purposes which he thought it unwise to disclose till effect
could promptly be given to them.  Thus his political character was the result of influences
differing widely in their origin--influences, moreover, which it was hard for ordinary observers
to appreciate.

CHAPTER III:  PARLIAMENTARIAN

Mr. Gladstone sat for sixty-three years in Parliament, and for more than twenty-six years was
the leader of his party, and therefore the central figure of English politics.  He had been
opposed in 1833 to men who might have been his grandfathers; he was opposed in 1893 to men
who might have been his grandchildren.  Most of us, just as we make few intimate friends, so
we form few new opinions after thirty-five.  One cannot follow the progress of all the new
ideas that are set afloat in the world.  Much of the suspicion and even fear with which he
was regarded, especially after 1885, arose from the idea that it was impossible to predict
what he would do next, and how far his openness of mind would carry him.  He may have wanted
that prescience which is, after integrity, the highest gift of a statesman, but which is almost
impossible to a man so pressed by the constant and engrossing occupations of an English minister
that he cannot find time for the patient study and thought from which alone sound forecasts
can issue.  But he had the next best quality, that of always learning from the events which
passed under his eyes.

With this singular openness and flexibility of mind, there went a not less remarkable ingenuity
and resourcefulness.  His mind was fertile in expedients, and still more fertile in reasonings
by which to recommend the expedients.  But his mind had not this power of adaptation. It moved
on its own lines--peculiar lines, which were often misconceived, even by those who sought to
follow him most loyally.  Both these views were unfair, yet the latter came nearer to the truth
than the former.  No great popular leader had in him less of the true ring of the demagogue.
He saw, of course, that a statesman cannot oppose the popular will beyond a certain point,
and may have to humor it in order that he may direct it.  Now and then, in his later days,
he so far yielded to his party advisers as to express his approval of proposals for which he
cared little personally.  On several occasions he announced a policy which startled people
and gave a new turn to the course of events.  In all of these instances he was at the time
in opposition, and was accused of having made this new departure for the sake of recovering
power. In the two former he prevailed, and was ultimately admitted, by his more candid adversaries,
to have counseled wisely.  In all of them he may, perhaps, be censured for not having sooner
perceived, or at any rate for not having sooner announced, the need for reform.  Nor did he
always rightly divine the popular mind. Absorbed in his own financial views, he omitted to
note the change that had been in progress between 1862 and 1874, and thus his proposal in the
latter year to extinguish the income tax fell completely flat.  He often failed to perceive
how much the credit of his party was suffering from the belief, quite groundless so far as
he personally was concerned, that his government was indifferent to what are called Imperial
interests, the interests of England outside England.  But he always thought for himself, and
never stooped to flatter the prejudices or inflame the passions of any class in the community.
And they forgot also that a man may have many defects and yet in spite of them be incomparably
the fittest for a great place.  He had a contempt for the meaner side of human nature which
made him refuse to play upon it.  He had comparatively little sympathy with many of the pursuits
which attract ordinary men; and he was too constantly engrossed by the subjects of enterprises
which specially appealed to him to have leisure for the lighter but often very important devices
of political strategy.  A trifling anecdote, which was told in London about twenty-five years
ago, may illustrate this characteristic.  Thus adherents were lost who turned into dangerous
foes--lost for the want not so much of tact as of a sense for the need and use of tact in humoring
and managing men.

CHAPTER IV:  ORATOR

Of that oratory, something must now be said.  Twenty years hence Mr. Gladstone's will not be
read, except, of course, by historians.

The style, in short, is not sufficiently rich or finished to give a perpetual interest to matters
whose practical importance has vanished.  Mr. Gladstone could do all these four things, and
could do them at an hour's notice, so vast and well ordered was the arsenal of his mind.  There
was admirable lucidity and accuracy in exposition.  There was great skill in the disposition
and marshaling of his arguments, and finally--a gift now almost lost in England--there was
a wonderful variety and grace of appropriate gesture.  But above and beyond everything else
which enthralled the listener, there were four qualities, two specially conspicuous in the
substance of his eloquence--inventiveness and elevation; two not less remarkable in his manner--force
in the delivery, expressive modulation in the voice.

Of the swift resourcefulness of his mind, something has been said already.  In debate it shone
out with the strongest ray.  In this particular kind of debating power, for the display of
which the House of Commons--an assembly of moderate size, which knows all its leading figures
familiarly--is an apt theater, he has been seldom rivaled and never surpassed.  Its only weakness
sprang from its superabundance.  Plenty of able men remained.  He may help to destroy; he does
not construct.  To describe the acts he carried would almost be to write the history of recent
British legislation; to pass a judgment upon their merits would be foreign to the scope of
this sketch:  it is only to three remarkable groups of measures that reference can here be
made.  So far from shrinking from, he seemed to revel in, the toil of mastering an infinitude
of technical details.  Yet neither did he want boldness and largeness of conception.  The Home-Rule
Bill of 1886 was nothing less than a new constitution for Ireland, and in all but one of its
most essential features had been practically worked out by himself more than four months before
it was presented to Parliament.

Of the other important measures passed while he was prime minister, two deserve special mention,
the Education Act of 1870 and the Local-Government Act of 1894.  Neither of these, however,
was directly his work, though he took a leading part in piloting the former through the House
of Commons.

His action in the field of foreign policy, though it was felt only at intervals, was on several
occasions momentous, and has left abiding results in European history.

That he was right in the view he took of the Turks and British policy in 1876-78 has been now
virtually admitted even by his opponents.  The only charge that can fairly be brought against
his conduct in foreign, and especially in Eastern, affairs is, that he did not keep a sufficiently
watchful eye upon them at all times, but frequently allowed himself to be so engrossed by British
domestic questions as to lose the opportunity which his tenure of power from time to time gave
him of averting approaching dangers.  Those who know how tremendous is the strain which the
headship of a cabinet and the leadership of the House of Commons impose will understand, though
they will not cease to regret, this omission.

Such a record is the best proof of the capacity for initiative which belonged to him and in
which men of high oratorical gifts have often been wanting.  It turned out that the great bulk
of the party did follow him, though many of the most influential and socially important refused
to do so.  But neither Mr. Gladstone nor any one else could have foretold this when his intentions
were first announced.

Two faults natural to a strong man and an excitable man were commonly charged on him--an overbearing
disposition and an irritable temper.  Neither charge was well founded.  Masterful he certainly
was, both in speech and in action.  A gifted though somewhat erratic politician used to tell
how he once fared when he had risen in the House of Commons to censure some act of the ministry.
Nor, although he was extremely resolute and tenacious, did he bear malice against those who
foiled his plans.  He would exert his full force to get his own way, but if he could not get
it, he accepted the position with dignity and good temper.  He was too proud to be vindictive,
too completely master of himself to be betrayed, even when excited, into angry words.  Like
his favorite poet, he put the traditori in the lowest pit, although, like all practical statesmen,
he often found himself obliged to work with those whom he distrusted.  His attitude toward
his two chief opponents well illustrates this feature of his character.  He heartily despised
Disraeli, not because Disraeli had been in the habit of attacking him, as one could easily
perceive from the way he talked of those attacks, but because he thought Disraeli habitually
untruthful, and considered him to have behaved with incomparable meanness to Peel.  Yet he
never attacked Disraeli personally, as Disraeli often attacked him.  There was another of his
opponents of whom he entertained an especially bad opinion, but no one could have told from
his speeches what that opinion was.  For Lord Salisbury he seemed to have no dislike at all,
though Lord Salisbury had more than once insulted him.  His leniency toward another violent
tongue which frequently assailed him, that of Lord Randolph Churchill, was not less noteworthy.
A distinguished man (the late Lord Chief Justice Coleridge), some ten years his junior, used
to say that he had never feared but two persons, Mr. Gladstone and Cardinal Newman; but it
was awe of their character that inspired this fear, for no one could cite an instance in which
either of them had forgotten his dignity or been betrayed into a discourteous word.  Those
who have abundant mental resources, and have conquered fame, can doubtless afford to be generous.
When Mr. Disraeli became Earl of Beaconsfield, his smile had a touch of contempt in it as he
observed, "I cannot forgive him for not having made himself a duke."  A great deal of what
passes in London for humor is mere cynicism, and he hated cynicism so heartily as to dislike
even humor when it had a touch of cynical flavor.  When a painter wins fame by his portraits
or his landscapes, they are apt to discourage any other kind of painting he may attempt.  But
it had three serious defects.

With these deficiencies, Mr. Gladstone's Homeric work had the great merit of being based on
a full and thorough knowledge of the Homeric text.  He sometimes takes the poet too seriously;
he is apt to read an ethical purpose into descriptive or dramatic touches which are merely
descriptive or dramatic.  That he was a sound and accurate scholar in that somewhat narrow
sense of the word which denotes a grammatical and literary mastery of Greek and Latin, goes
without saying.  Theology claimed a place beside poetry; history came next, and was always
a favorite branch of study.  His knowledge was not, perhaps, very wide, but it was generally
exact; indeed, the accuracy with which he grasped facts that belonged to the realm of history
proper was sometimes in strange contrast to the fanciful way in which he reasoned from them,
or to the wildness of his conjectures in the prehistoric region.  He must have possessed mathematical
talent, for he took a first class in mathematics at Oxford, at the same time as his first in
classics, but it was a subject he soon dropped.

CHAPTER VIII:  RELIGIOUS CHARACTER

Of all the things with which men are concerned, religion was that which had the strongest hold
upon his thoughts and feelings.  He had desired, when quitting the university, to become a
clergyman, and it was only his father's opposition that made him abandon the idea. Never thereafter
did he cease to take the warmest and most constant interest in all the ecclesiastical controversies
that distracted the Established Church.  He was turned out of his seat for Oxford University
by the country clergy, who form the bulk of the voters.  Few reputations made in politics keep
so far green and fresh that men continue to read and write and speculate about the person when
those who can remember him living have departed.  Out of all the men who have played a leading
part in English public life in the present century there are but seven or eight--Pitt, Fox,
Canning, Wellington, Peel, O'Connell, Disraeli, perhaps Melbourne and Brougham--who still excite
our curiosity.  Tried by this test, Mr. Gladstone's fame seems destined to last.  His eloquence
will soon become merely a tradition, for his printed speeches do not preserve its charm.  His
main acts of policy, foreign and domestic, will have to be judged by their still unborn consequences.
Now he is gone.  The piercing eye is dim, and the mellow voice is silent, and the light has
died out of the sky.

