The conversation was carried on for some time farther, and then Mr. Juniper left the house
without again visiting the ladies. His last word was that if inquiries were made into him they
might all go to--Bath! If the money were forthcoming, they would know where to find him; but
it must be five hundred pounds "square," with no parings made from it on behalf of petticoats
and pelisses. With this last word Mr. Juniper stamped down the stairs and out of the house.

"He's a brute, after all!" said Sophie.

"No, he isn't. What do you know about brutes? Of course a gentleman has to make the best fight
he can for his money." This was what Amelia said at the moment; but in the seclusion of their
own room she wept bitterly. "Why didn't he come in to see me and just give me one word? I hadn't
done anything amiss. It wasn't my fault if Uncle John is stingy."

"And he isn't so very stingy, after all," said Sophie.

"Of course papa hasn't got anything, and wouldn't have anything, though you were to pour golden
rivers into his lap."

"There are worse than papa," said Sophie.

"But he knows all that, and that our uncle isn't any more than an uncle. And why should he
be so particular just about a hundred pounds? I do think gentlemen are the meanest creatures
when they are looking after money! Ladies ain't half so bad. He'd no business to expect five
hundred pounds all out."

This was very melancholy, and the house was kept in a state of silent sorrow for four or five
days, till the result of the inquiries had come. Then there was weeping and gnashing of teeth.
Mr. Barry came to Bolsover Terrace to communicate the result of the inquiry, and was shut up
for half an hour with poor Mrs. Carroll. He was afraid that he could not recommend the match.
"Oh, I'm sorry for that,--very sorry!" said Mrs. Carroll. "The young lady will be--disappointed."
And her handkerchief went up to her eyes. Then there was silence for awhile, till she asked
why an opinion so strongly condemnatory had been expressed.

"The gentleman, ma'am,--is not what a gentleman should be. You may take my word for it. I must
ask you not to repeat what I say to him."

"Oh dear, no."

"But perhaps the least said the soonest mended. He is not what a gentleman should be."

"You mean a--fine gentleman."

"He is not what a man should be. I cannot say more than that. It would not be for the young
lady's happiness that she should select such a partner for her life."

"She is very much attached to him."

"I am sorry that it should be so. But it will be better that she should--live it down. At any
rate, I am bound to communicate to you Mr. Grey's decision. Though he does not at all mean
to withhold his bounty in regard to any other proposed marriage, he cannot bring himself to
pay money to Mr. Juniper."

"Nothing at all?" asked Mrs. Carroll.

"He will make no payment that will go into the pocket of Mr. Juniper."

Then Mr. Barry went, and there was weeping and wailing in the house in Bolsover Terrace. So
cruel an uncle as Mr. Grey had never been heard of in history, or even in romance. "I know
it's that old cat, Dolly," said Amelia. "Because she hasn't managed to get a husband for herself,
she doesn't want any one else to get one."

"My poor child," said Mr. Carroll, in a maudlin condition, "I pity thee from the bottom of
my heart!"

"I wish that Mr. Barry may be made to marry a hideous old maid past forty," said Georgina.

"I shouldn't care what they said, but would take him straight off," said Sophie.

Upon this Mrs. Carroll shook her head. "I don't suppose that he is quite all that he ought to be."

"Who is, I should like to know?" said Amelia.

"But my brother has to give his money according to his judgment." As she said this the poor
woman thought of those other five who in process of time might become claimants. But here the
whole family attacked her, and almost drove her to confess that her brother was a stingy old
curmudgeon.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

"GURNEY & MALCOLMSON'S."

In Red Lion Square, on the first floor of a house which partakes of the general dinginess of
the neighborhood, there are two rooms which bear on the outside door the well-sounding names
of Gurney & Malcolmson; and on the front door to the street are the names of Gurney & Malcolmson,
showing that the business transacted by Messrs. Gurney & Malcolmson outweighs in importance
any others conducted in the same house. In the first room, which is the smaller of the two
occupied, sits usually a lad, who passes most of his time in making up and directing circulars,
so that a stranger might be led to suppose that the business of Gurney & Malcolmson was of
an extended nature.

But on the occasion to which we are about to allude the door of the premises was closed, and
the boy was kept on the alert posting, or perhaps delivering, the circulars which were continually
issued. This was the place of business affected by Mr. Tyrrwhit, or at any rate one of them.
Who were Gurney & Malcolmson it is not necessary that our chronicle should tell. No Gurney
or no Malcolmson was then visible; and though a part of the business of the firm in which it
is to be supposed that Gurney & Malcolmson were engaged was greatly discussed, their name on
the occasion was never mentioned.

A meeting had been called at which the presiding genius was Mr. Tyrrwhit. You might almost
be led to believe that, from the manner in which he made himself at home, Mr. Tyrrwhit was
Gurney & Malcolmson. But there was another there who seemed to be almost as much at home as
Mr. Tyrrwhit, and this was Mr. Samuel Hart, whom we last saw when he had unexpectedly made
himself known to his friend the captain at Monaco. He had a good deal to say for himself; and
as he sat during the meeting with his hat on, it is to be presumed that he was not in awe of
his companions. Mr. Juniper also was there. He took a seat at one corner of the table, and
did not say much. There was also a man who, in speaking of himself and his own affairs, always
called himself Evans & Crooke. And there was one Spicer, who sat silent for the most part,
and looked very fierce. In all matters, however, he appeared to agree with Mr. Tyrrwhit. He
is especially named, as his interest in the matter discussed was large. There were three or
four others, whose affairs were of less moment, though to them they were of intense interest.
These gentlemen assembled were they who had advanced money to Captain Scarborough, and this
was the meeting of the captain's creditors, at which they were to decide whether they were
to give up their bonds on payment of the sums they had actually advanced, or whether they would
stand out till the old squire's death, and then go to law with the owner of the estate.

At the moment at which we may be presumed to be introduced, Mr. Tyrrwhit had explained the
matter in a nervous, hesitating manner, but still in words sufficiently clear. "There's the
money down now if you like to take it, and I'm for taking it." These were the words with which
Mr. Tyrrwhit completed his address.

"Circumstances is different," said the man with his hat on.

"I don't know much about that, Mr. Hart," said Tyrrwhit.

"Circumstances is different. I can't 'elp whether you know it or not."

"How different?"

"They is different,--and that's all about it. It'll perhaps shuit you and them other shentlemen
to take a pershentage."

"It won't suit Evans & Crooke," said the man who represented that firm.

"But perhaps Messrs. Evans & Crooke may be willing to save so much of their property," said
Mr. Tyrrwhit.

"They'd like to have what's due to 'em."

"We should all like that," said Spicer, and he gnashed his teeth and shook his head.

"But we can't get it all," said Tyrrwhit.

"Speak for yourself, Mr. Tyrrwhit," said Hart. "I think I can get mine. This is the most almighty
abandoned swindle I ever met in all my born days." The whole meeting, except Mr. Tyrrwhit,
received this assertion with loudly expressed applause. "Such a blackguard, dirty, thieving
job never was up before in my time. I don't know 'ow to talk of it in language as a man isn't
ashamed to commit himself to. It's downright robbery."

"I say so too," said Evans & Crooke.

"By George!" continued Mr. Hart, "we come forward to 'elp a shentleman in his trouble and to
wait for our moneys till the father is dead, and then when 'e's 'ad our moneys the father turns
round and says that 'is own son is a--Oh, it's too shocking! I 'aven't slept since I 'eard
it,--not a regular night's rest. Now, it's my belief the captain 'as no 'and in it."

Here Mr. Juniper scratched his head and looked doubtful, and one or two of the other silent
gentlemen scratched their heads. Messrs. Evans & Crooke scratched his head. "It's a matter
on which I would not like to give an opinion one way or the other," said Tyrrwhit.

"No more wouldn't I," said Spicer.

"Let every man speak as he finds," continued Hart. "That's my belief. I don't mind giving up
a little of my claim, just a thousand or so, for ready cash. The old sinner ought to be dead,
and can't last long. My belief is when 'e's gone I'm so circumstanced I shall get the whole.
Whether or no, I've gone in for 'elping the captain with all my savings, and I mean to stick
to them."

"And lose everything," said Tyrrwhit.

"Why don't we go and lug the old sinner into prison?" said Evans & Crooke.

"Certainly that's the game," said Juniper, and there was another loud acclamation of applause
from the entire room.

"Gentlemen, you don't know what you're talking about, you don't indeed," said Tyrrwhit.

"I don't believe as we do," said Spicer.

"You can't touch the old gentleman. He owes you nothing, nor have you a scratch of his pen.
How are you to lug an old gentleman to prison when he's lying there cut up by the doctors almost
to nothing? I don't know that anybody can touch him. The captain perhaps might, if the present
story be false; and the younger son, if the other be true. And then they'd have to prove it.
Mr. Grey says that no one can touch him."

"He's in the swim as bad as any of 'em," said Evans & Crooke.

"Of course he is," said Hart. "But let everybody speak for himself. I've gone in to 'earn a
'eavy stake honestly."

"That's all right," said Evans & Crooke.

"And I mean to 'ave it or nothing. Now, Mr. Tyrrwhit, you know a piece of my mind. It's a biggish
lot of money."

"We know what your claim is."

"But no man knows what the captain got, and I don't mean 'em to know."

"About fifteen thousand," came in a whisper from some one in the room.

"That's a lie," said Mr. Hart; "so there's no getting out of that. If the shentleman will mind
'is own concerns I'll mind mine. Nobody knows,--barring the captain, and he like enough has
forgot,--and nobody's going to know. What's written on these eight bits of paper everybody
may know," and he pulled out of a large case or purse, which he carried in his breast coat-pocket,
a fat sheaf of bills. "There are five thou' written on each of them, and for five thou' on
each of them I means to stand out. 'It or miss.' If any shentleman chooses to talk to me about
ready money I'll take two thou' off. I like ready money as well as another."

"We can all say the same as that, Mr. Hart," said Tyrrwhit.

"No doubt. And if you think you can get it, I advise you to stick to it. If you thought you
could get it you would say the same. But I should like to get that old man's 'ead between my
fists. Wouldn't I punch it! Thief! scoundrel! 'orrid old man! It ain't for myself that I'm
speaking now, because I'm a-going to get it,--I think I'm a-going to get it;--it's for humanity
at large. This kind of thing wiolates one's best feelings."

"'Ear, 'ear, 'ear!" said one of the silent gentlemen.

"Them's the sentiments of Evans & Crooke," said the representative of that firm.

"They're all our sentiments, in course," said Spicer; "but what's the use?"

"Not a ha'p'orth," said Mr. Tyrrwhit.

"Asking your pardon, Mr. Tyrrwhit," said Mr. Hart, "but, as this is a meeting of creditors
who 'ave a largish lot of money to deal with, I don't think they ought to part without expressing
their opinions in the way of British commerce. I say crucifying 'd be too good for 'im."

"You can't get at him to crucify him."

"There's no knowing about that," said Mr. Hart.

"And now," said Mr. Tyrrwhit, drawing out his watch, "I expect Mr. Augustus Scarborough to
call upon us."

"You can crucify him," said Evans & Crooke.

"It is the old man, and neither of the sons, as have done it," said Hart.

"Mr. Scarborough," continued Tyrrwhit, "will be here, and will expect to learn whether we have
accepted his offer. He will be accompanied by Mr. Barry. If one rejects, all reject."

"Not at all," said Hart.

"He will not consent to pay anything unless he can make a clean hit of it. He is about to sacrifice
a very large sum of money."

"Sacrifice!" said Juniper.

"Yes; sacrifice a very large sum of money. His father cannot pay it without his consent. The
father may die any day, and then the money will belong altogether to the son. You have, none
of you, any claim upon him. It is likely he may think you will have a claim on the estate,
not trusting his own father."

"I wouldn't trust him, not 'alf as far as I could see him, though he was twice my father."
This again came from Mr. Hart.

"I want to explain to these gentlemen how the matter stands."

"They understand," said Hart.

"I'm for securing my own money. It's very hard,--after all the risk. I quite agree with Mr.
Hart in what he says about the squire. Such a piece of premeditated dishonesty for robbing
gentlemen of their property I never before heard. It's awful."

"'Orrid old man!" said Mr. Hart.

"Just so. But half a loaf is better than no bread. Now, here is a list, prepared in Mr. Grey's
chambers."

"'E's another, nigh as 'orrid."

"On this list we're all down, with the sums he says we advanced. Are we to take them? If so
we must sign our names, each to his own figure." Then he passed the list down the table.

The men there assembled all crowded to look at the list, and among others Mr. Juniper. He showed
his anxiety by the eager way in which he nearly annihilated Messrs. Evans & Crooke, by leaning
over him as he struggled to read the paper. "Your name ain't down at all," said Evans & Crooke.
Then a tremendous oath, very bitter and very wicked, came from the mouth of Mr. Juniper, most
unbefitting a young man engaged to marry a young lady. "I tell you it isn't here," said Evans
& Crooke, trying to extricate himself.

"I shall know how to right myself," said Juniper, with another oath. And he then walked out
of the room.

"The captain, when he was drunk one night, got a couple of ponies from him. It wasn't a couple
all out. And Juniper made him write his name for five hundred pounds. It was thought then that
the squire 'd have been dead next day, and Juniper 'd 've got a good thing."'

"I 'ate them ways," said Mr. Hart. "I never deal with a shentleman if he's, to say--drunk.
Of course it comes in my way, but I never does."

Now there was heard a sound of steps on the stairs, and Mr. Tyrrwhit rose from his chair so
as to perform the duty of master of the ceremonies to the gentlemen who were expected. Augustus
Scarborough entered the room, followed by Mr. Barry. They were received with considerable respect,
and seated on two chairs at Mr. Tyrrwhit's right hand. "Gentlemen, you most of you know these
two gentlemen. They are Mr. Augustus Scarborough and Mr. Barry, junior partner in the firm
of Messrs. Grey & Barry."

"We knows 'em," said Hart.

"My client has made a proposition to you," said Mr. Barry. "If you will give up your bonds
against his brother, which are not worth the paper they are written on--"

"Gammon!" said Mr. Hart.

"I will sign checks paying to you the sums of money written on that list. But you must all
agree to accept such sums in liquidation in full. I see you have not signed the paper yet.
No time is to be lost. In fact, you must sign it now, or my client will withdraw from his offer."

"Withdraw; will 'e?" said Hart. "Suppose we withdraw? 'O does your client think is the honestest
man in this 'ere swim?"

Mr. Barry seemed somewhat abashed by this question. "It isn't necessary to go into that, Mr.
Hart," said he.

Mr. Hart laughed long and loud, and all the gentlemen laughed. There was something to them
extremely jocose in their occupying, as it were, the other side of the question, and appearing
as the honest, injured party. They enjoyed it thoroughly, and Mr. Hart was disposed to make
the most of it. "No; it ain't necessary; is it? There ain't no question of honesty to be asked
in this 'ere business. We quite understand that."

Then up and spoke Augustus Scarborough. He rose to his feet, and the very fact of his doing
so quieted for a time the exuberant mirth of the party. "Gentlemen, Mr. Hart speaks to you
of honesty. I am not going to boast of my own. I am here to consent to the expenditure of a
very large sum of money, for which I am to get nothing, and which, if not paid to you, will
all go into my own pocket;--unless you believed that you wouldn't be here to meet me."

"We don't believe nothing," said Hart.

"Mr. Hart, you should let Mr. Scarborough speak," said Tyrrwhit.

"Vell, let 'im speak. Vat's the odds?"

"I do not wish to delay you, nor to delay myself," continued Augustus. "I can go, and will
go, at once. But I shall not come back. There is no good discussing this matter any longer."

"Oh no; not the least. Ve don't like discussion; do ve, captain?" said Mr. Hart. "But you ain't
the captain; is you?"

"As there seems to be no intention of signing that document, I shall go," said Augustus. Then
Mr. Tyrrwhit took the paper, and signed it on the first line with his own name at full length.
He wrote his name to a very serious sum of money, but it was less than half what he and others
had expected to receive when the sum was lent. Had that been realized there would have been
no farther need for the formalities of Gurney & Malcolmson, and that young lad must have found
other work to do than the posting of circulars. The whole matter, however, had been much considered,
and he signed the document. Mr. Hart's name came next, but he passed it on. "I ain't made up
my mind yet. Maybe I shall have to call on Mr. Barry. I ain't just consulted my partner." Then
the document went down to Mr. Spicer, who signed it, grinning horribly; as did also Evans &
Crooke and all the others. They did believe that was the only way in which they could get back
the money they had advanced. It was a great misfortune, a serious blow. But in this way there
was something short of ruin. They knew that Scarborough was about to pay the money, so that
he might escape a lawsuit, which might go against him; but then they also wished to avoid the
necessity of bringing the lawsuit. Looking at the matter all round, we may say that the lawyers
were the persons most aggrieved by what was done on that morning. They all signed it as they
sat there,--except Mr. Hart, who passed it on, and still wore his hat.

"You won't agree, Mr. Hart?" said Tyrrwhit.

"Not yet I von't," said Hart. "I ain't thought it out. I ain't in the same boat with the rest.
I'm not afraid of my money. I shall get that all right."

"Then I may as well go," said Augustus.

"Don't be in a hurry, Mr. Scarborough," said Tyrrwhit. "Things of this kind can't be done just
in a moment." But Augustus explained that they must be done in a very few moments, if they
were to be done at all. It was not his intention to sit there in Gurney & Malcolmson's office
discussing the matter with Mr. Hart. Notice of his intention had been given, and they might
take his money or leave it.

"Just so, captain," said Mr. Hart. "Only I believe you ain't the captain. Where's the captain
now? I see him last at Monte Carlo, and he had won a pot of money. He was looking uncommon
well after his little accident in the streets with young Annesley."

Mr. Tyrrwhit contrived to get all the others out of the room, he remaining there with Hart
and Augustus Scarborough and Mr. Barry. And then Hart did sign the document with altered figures:
only that so much was added on to the sum which he agreed to accept, and a similar deduction
made from that to which Mr. Tyrrwhit's name was signed. But this was not done without renewed
expostulation from the latter gentleman. It was very hard, he said, that all the sacrifice
should be made by him. He would be ruined, utterly ruined by the transaction. But he did sign
for the altered sum, and Mr. Hart also signed the paper. "Now, Mr. Barry, as the matter is
completed, I think I will withdraw," said Augustus.

"It's five thousand pounds clean gone out of my pocket," said Hart, "and I vas as sure of it
as ever I vas in my life. There vas no better money than the captain's. Vell, vell! This vorld's
a queer place." So saying, he followed Augustus and Mr. Barry out of the room, and left Mr.
Tyrrwhit alone in his misery.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

VICTORIA STREET.

Lounging in an arm-chair in a small but luxuriously furnished room in Victoria Street sat Captain
Mountjoy Scarborough, and opposite to him, equally comfortably placed, as far as externals
were concerned, but without any of that lounging look which the captain affected, sat his brother.
It was nearly eight o'clock, and the sound of the dinner-plates could be heard through the
open doors from the next room. It was evident, or at any rate was the fact, that Augustus found
his brother's presence a bore, and as evident that the captain intended to disregard the dissatisfaction
evinced by the owner of the chambers. "Do shut the door, Mountjoy," said the younger. "I don't
suppose we want the servant to hear everything that we say."

"He's welcome for me," said Mountjoy, without moving. Then Augustus got up and banged the door.
"Don't be angry because I sometimes forget that I am no longer considered to be your elder
brother," said Mountjoy.

"Bother about elder brothers! I suppose you can shut a door?"

"A man is sometimes compelled by circumstances to think whether he can or not. I'd've shut
the door for you readily enough the other day. I don't know that I can now. Ain't we going
to have some dinner? It's eight o'clock."

"I suppose they'll get dinner for you;--I'm not going to dine here." The two men were both
dressed and after this they remained silent for the next five minutes. Then the servant came
in and said that dinner was ready.

All this happened in December. It must be explained that the captain had come to London at
his brother's instance, and was there, in his rooms, at his invitation. Indeed, we may say
that he had come at his brother's command. Augustus had during the last few months taken upon
himself to direct the captain's movements; and though he had not always been obeyed, still,
upon the whole, his purposes had been carried out as well as he could expect. He had offered
to supply the money necessary for the captain's tour, and had absolutely sent a servant to
accompany the traveller. When the traveller had won money at Monaco he had been unruly, but
this had not happened very often. When we last saw him he had expressed his intention to Mr.
Hart of making a return journey to the Caucasian provinces. But he got no farther than Genoa
on his way to the Caucasus, and then, when he found that Mr. Hart was not at his back, he turned
round and went back to Monte Carlo. Monte Carlo, of all places on the world's surface, had
now charms for him.

There was no longer a club open to him, either in London or Paris, at which be could win or
lose one hundred pounds. At Monte Carlo he could still do so readily; and, to do so, need not
sink down into any peculiarly low depth of social gathering. At Monte Carlo the ennui of the
day was made to disappear. At Monte Carlo he could lie in bed till eleven, and then play till
dinner-time. At Monte Carlo there was always some one who would drink a glass of wine with
him without inquiring too closely as to his antecedents. He had begun by winning a large sum
of money. He had got some sums from his brother, and when at last he was summoned home he was
penniless. Had his pocket been still full of money it may be doubted whether he would have
come, although he understood perfectly the importance of the matter on which he had been recalled.

He had been sent for in order that he might receive from Mr. Grey a clear statement of what
it was intended to do in reference to the payment of money to the creditors. Mr. Grey had,
in the first place, endeavored to assure him that his co-operation was in no respect made necessary
by the true circumstances of the case, but in order to satisfy the doubts of certain persons.
The money to be paid was the joint property of his father and his brother,--of his father,
as far as the use of it for his life was concerned, and of his brother, as to its continued
and perpetual enjoyment. They were willing to pay so much for the redemption of the bonds given
by him, the captain. As far as these bonds were concerned the captain would thus be a free
man. There could be no doubt that nothing but benefit was intended for him,--as though he were
himself the heir. "Though as to that I have no hesitation in telling you that, you will at
your father's death have no right to a shilling of the property." The captain had said that
he was quite willing, and had signed the deed. He was glad that these bonds should be recovered
so cheaply. But as to the property,--and here he spoke with much spirit to Mr. Grey,--it was
his purpose at his father's death to endeavor to regain his position. He would never believe,
he said, that his mother was--Then he turned away, and, in spite of all that had come and gone,
Mr. Grey respected him.

But he had signed the deed, and the necessity for his presence was over. What should his brother
do with him now? He could not keep him concealed,--or not concealed,--in his rooms. But something
must be done. Some mode of living must be invented for him. Abroad! Augustus said to himself,--and
to Septimus Jones, who was his confidential friend,--that Mountjoy must live "abroad."

"Oh yes; he must go abroad. There's no doubt about that. It's the only place for him." So spoke
Septimus Jones, who, though confidential friend, was not admitted to the post of confidential
adviser. Augustus liked to have a depositary for his resolutions, but would admit no advice.
And Septimus Jones had become so much his creature that he had to obey him in all things.

We are apt to think that a man may be disposed of by being made go abroad; or, if he is absolutely
penniless and useless, by being sent to the colonies,--that he may become a shepherd and drink
himself out of the world. To kill the man, so that he may be no longer a nuisance, is perhaps
the chief object in both cases. But it was not easy to get the captain to go abroad unless,
indeed, he was sent back to Monte Carlo. Some Monte Carlo, such as a club might be with stakes
practically unlimited, was the first desire of his heart. But behind that, or together with
it, was an anxious longing to remain near Tretton and "see it out," as he called it, when his
father should die. His father must die very shortly, and he would like "to see it out," as
he told Mr. Grey; and, with this wish, there was a longing also for the company of Florence
Mountjoy.

He used to tell himself, in those moments of sad thoughts,--thoughts serious as well as sad,
which will come even to a gambler,--that if he could have Tretton and Florence Mountjoy he
would never touch another card. And there was present to him an assurance that his aunt, Mrs.
Mountjoy, would still be on his side. If he could talk over his circumstances with Mrs. Mountjoy,
he thought that he might be encouraged to recover his position as an English gentleman. His
debts at the club had already been paid, and he had met on the sly a former friend, who had
given him some hope that he might be re-admitted. But at the present moment his mind turned
to Brussels. He had learned that Florence and her mother were at the embassy there, and, though
he hesitated, still he desired to go. But this was not the "abroad" contemplated by Augustus.
Augustus did not think it well that his father's bastard son, who had been turned out of a
London club for not paying his card debts, and had then disappeared in a mysterious way for
six months, should show himself at the British embassy, and there claim admittance and relationship.
Nor was he anxious that his brother should see Florence Mountjoy. He had suggested a prolonged
tour in South America, which he had declared to be the most interesting country in the world.
"I think I had rather go to Brussels," Mountjoy had answered, gallantly, keeping his seat in
the arm-chair and picking his teeth the while. This occurred on the evening before that on
which we found them just now. On the morning of that day Mountjoy had had his interview with
Mr. Grey.

Augustus had declared that he intended to dine out. This he had said in disgust at his brother's
behavior. No doubt he could get his dinner at ten minutes' notice. He had not been expelled
from his club. But he had ordered the dinner on that day with a view to eat it himself, and
in effect he carried out his purpose. The captain got up, thinking to go alone when the dinner
was announced, but expressed himself gratified when his brother said that he "had changed his
mind." "You made yourself such an ass about shutting the door that I resolved to leave you
to yourself. But come along." And he accompanied the captain into the other room.

A very pretty little dinner was prepared,--quite such as one loving friend might give to another,
when means are sufficient,--such a dinner as the heir of Tretton might have given to his younger
brother. The champagne was excellent, and the bottle of Leoville. Mountjoy partook of all the
good things with much gusto, thinking all the while that he ought to have been giving the dinner
to his younger brother. When that conversation had sprung up about going to Brussels or South
America, Mountjoy had suggested a loan. "I'll pay your fare to Rio, and give you an order on
a banker there." Mountjoy had replied that that would not at all suit his purpose. Then Augustus
had felt that it would be almost better to send his brother even to Brussels than to keep him
concealed in London. He had been there now for three or four days, and, even in respect of
his maintenance, had become a burden. The pretty little dinners had to be found every day,
and were eaten by the captain alone, when left alone, without an attempt at an apology on his
part. Augustus had begun with some intention of exhibiting his mode of life. He would let his
brother know what it was to be the heir of Tretton. No doubt he did assume all the outward
glitter of his position, expecting to fill his brother's heart with envy. But Mountjoy had
seen and understood it all; and remembering the days, not long removed, when he had been the
heir, he bethought himself that he had never shown off before his brother. And he was determined
to express no gratitude or thankfulness. He would go on eating the little dinners exactly as
though they had been furnished by himself. It certainly was dull. There was no occupation for
him, and in the matter of pocket-money he was lamentably ill-supplied. But he was gradually
becoming used to face the streets again and had already entered the shops of one or two of
his old tradesmen. He had quite a confidential conversation with his boot-maker, and had ordered
three or four new pairs of boots.

Nobody could tell how the question of the property would be decided till his father should
have died. His father had treated him most cruelly, and he would only wait for his death. He
could assure the boot-maker that when that time came he should look for his rights. He knew
that there was a suspicion abroad that he was in a conspiracy with his father and brother to
cheat his creditors. No such thing. He himself was cheated. He pledged himself to the boot-maker
that, to the best of his belief, his father was robbing him, and that he would undoubtedly
assert his right to the Tretton property as soon as the breath should be out of his father's
body. The truth of what he told the boot-maker he certainly did believe. There was some little
garnishing added to his tale,--which, perhaps, under the circumstances, was to be forgiven.
The blow had come upon him so suddenly, he said, that he was not able even to pay his card
account, and had left town in dismay at the mine which had been exploded under his feet. The
boot-maker believed him so far that he undertook to supply his orders.

When the dinner had been eaten the two brothers lit their cigars and drew to the fire. "There
must, unfortunately, come an end to this, you know," said Augustus.

"I certainly can't stand it much longer," said Mountjoy.

"You, at any rate, have had the best of it. I have endeavored to make my little crib comfortable
for you."

"The grub is good, and the wine. There's no doubt about that. Somebody says somewhere that
nobody can live upon bread alone. That includes the whole menu, I suppose."

"What do you suggest to do with yourself?"

"You said, go abroad."

"So I did--to Rio."

"Rio is a long way off,--somewhere across the equator, isn't it?"

"I believe it is."

"I think we'd better have it out clearly between us, Augustus. It won't suit me to be at Rio
Janeiro when our father dies."

"What difference will his death make to you?"

"A father's death generally does make a difference to his eldest son, particularly if there
is any property concerned."

"You mean to say that you intend to dispute the circumstances of your birth?"

"Dispute them! Do you think that I will allow such a thing to be said of my mother without
disputing it? Do you suppose that I will give up my claim to one of the finest properties in
England without disputing it?"

"Then I had better stop the payment of that money, and let the gentlemen know that you mean
to raise the question on their behalf."

"That's your affair. The arrangement is a very good one for me; but you made it."

"You know very well that your present threat means nothing. Ask Mr. Grey. You can trust him."

"But I can't trust him. After having been so wickedly deceived by my own father, I can trust
no one. Why did not Mr. Grey find it out before, if it be true? I give you my word, Augustus,
the lawyers will have to fight it out before you will be allowed to take possession."

"And yet you do not scruple to come and live here at my cost."

"Not in the least. At whose cost can I live with less scruple than at yours? You, at any rate,
have not robbed our mother of her good name, as my father has done. The only one of the family
with whom I could not stay is the governor. I could not sit at the table with a man who has
so disgraced himself."

"Upon my word I am very much obliged to you for the honor you do me."

"That's my feeling. The chance of the game and his villany have given you for the moment the
possession of all the good things. They are all mine by rights."

"Cards have had nothing to do with it."

"Yes; they have. But they have had nothing to do with my being the eldest legitimate son of
my father. The cards have been against me, but they have not affected my mother. Then there
came the blow from the governor, and where was I to look for my bread but to you? I suppose,
if the truth be known, you get the money from the governor."

"Of course I do. But not for your maintenance."

"On what does he suppose that I have been living since last June? It mayn't be in the bond,
but I suppose he has made allowance for my maintenance. Do you mean to say that I am not to
have bread-and-cheese out of Tretton?"

"If I were to turn you out of these rooms you'd find it very difficult to get it."

"I don't think you'll do that."

"I'm not so sure."

"You're meditating it,--are you? I shouldn't go just at present, because I have not got a sovereign
in the world. I was going to speak to you about money. You must let me have some."

"Upon my word, I like your impudence!"

"What the devil am I to do? The governor has asked me to go down to Tretton, and I can't go
without a five-pound note in my pocket."

"The governor has asked you to Tretton?"

"Why not? I got a letter from him this morning." Then Augustus asked to see the letter, but
Mountjoy refused to show it. From this there arose angry words, and Augustus told his brother
that he did not believe him. "Not believe me? You do believe me! You know that what I say is
the truth, He has asked me with all his usual soft soap. But I have refused to go. I told him
that I could not go to the house of one who had injured my mother so seriously."

All that Mountjoy said as to the proposed visit to Tretton was true. The squire had written
to him without mentioning the name of Augustus, and had told him that, for the present, Tretton
would be the best home for him. "I will do what I can to make you happy, but you will not see
a card," the squire had said. It was not the want of cards which prevented Mountjoy, but a
feeling on his part that for the future there could be nothing but war between him and his
father. It was out of the question that he should accept his father's hospitality without telling
him of his intention, and he did not know his father well enough to feel that such a declaration
would not affect him at all. He had, therefore, declined.

Then Harry Annesley's name was mentioned. "I think I've done for that fellow," said Augustus.

"What have you done?"

"I've cooked his goose. In the first place, his uncle has stopped his allowance, and in the
second place the old fellow is going to marry a wife. At any rate, he has quarrelled with Master
Harry à outrance. Master Harry has gone back to the parental parsonage, and is there eating
the bread of affliction and drinking the waters of poverty. Flossy Mountjoy may marry him if
she pleases. A girl may marry a man now without leave from anybody. But if she does my dear
cousin will have nothing to eat."

"And you have done this?"

"'Alone I did it, boy.'"

"Then it's an infernal shame. What harm had he ever done you? For me I had some ground of quarrel
with him, but for you there was none."

"I have my own quarrel with him also."

"I quarrelled with him--with a cause. I do not care if I quarrel with him again. He shall never
marry Florence Mountjoy if I can help it. But to rob a fellow of his property I think a very
shabby thing." Then Augustus got up and walked out of the chambers into the street, and Mountjoy
soon followed him.

"I must make him understand that he must leave this at once," said Augustus to himself, "and
if necessary I must order the supplies to be cut off."

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

THE SCARBOROUGH CORRESPONDENCE.

It was as Mountjoy had said. The squire had written to him a letter inviting him to Tretton,
and telling him that it would be the best home for him till death should have put Tretton into
other hands. Mountjoy had thought the matter over, sitting in the easy-chair in his brother's
room, and had at last declined the invitation. As his letter was emblematic of the man, it
may be as well to give it to the reader:

"My dear father,--I don't think it will suit me to go down to Tretton at present. I don't mind
the cards, and I don't doubt that you would make it better than this place. But, to tell the
truth, I don't believe a word of what you have told to the world about my mother, and some
of these days I mean to have it out with Augustus. I shall not sit quietly by and see Tretton
taken out of my mouth. Therefore I think I had better not go to Tretton.

"Yours truly,

"MOUNTJOY SCARBOROUGH."

This had not at all surprised the father, and had not in the least angered him. He rather liked
his son for standing up for his mother, and was by no means offended at the expression of his
son's incredulity. But what was there in the prospect of a future lawsuit to prevent his son
coming to Tretton? There need be no word spoken as to the property. Tretton would be infinitely
more comfortable than those rooms in Victoria Street, and he, was aware that the hospitality
of Victoria Street would not be given in an ungrudging spirit. "I shouldn't like it," said
the old squire to himself as he lay quiet on his sofa. "I shouldn't like at all to be the humble
guest of Augustus. Augustus would certainly say a nasty word or two."

The old man knew his younger son well, and he had known, too, the character of his elder son;
but he had not calculated enough on the change which must have been made by such a revelation
as he, his father, had made to him. Mountjoy had felt that all the world was against him, and
that, as best he might, he would make use of all the world, excepting only his father, who
of all the world was the falsest and the most cruel. As for his brother, he would bleed his
brother to the very last drop without any compunction. Every bottle of champagne that came
into the house was, to Mountjoy's thinking, his own, bought with his money, and therefore fit
to be enjoyed by him. But as for his father, he doubted whether he could remain with his father
without flying at his throat.

The old man decidedly preferred his elder son of the two. He had found that Augustus could
not bear success, and had first come to dislike him, and then to hate him. What had he not
done for Augustus? And with what a return! No doubt Augustus had, till the spring of this present
year, been kept in the background; but no injury had come to him from that. His father, of
his own good will, with infinite labor and successful ingenuity, had struggled to put him back
in the place which had been taken from him. Augustus might, not unnaturally, have expressed
himself as angry. He had not done so but had made himself persistently disagreeable, and had
continued to show that he was waiting impatiently for his father's death. It had come to pass
that at their last meeting he had hardly scrupled to tell his father that the world would be
no world for him till his father had left it. This was the reward which the old man received
for having struggled to provide handsomely and luxuriously for his son! He still made his son
a sufficient allowance befitting the heir of a man of large property, but he had resolved never
to see him again. It was true that he almost hated him, and thoroughly despised him.

But since the departure and mysterious disappearance of his eldest son his regard for the sinner
had returned. He had become apparently a hopeless gambler. His debts had been paid and repaid.
At last the squire had learned that Mountjoy owed so much on post-obits that the farther payment
of them was an impossibility. There was no way of saving him. To save the property he must
undo the doings of his early youth, and prove that the elder son was illegitimate. He had still
kept the proofs, and he did it.

To the great disgust of Mr. Grey, to the dismay of creditors, to the incredulous wonder of
Augustus, and almost to the annihilation of Mountjoy himself, he had done it. But there had
been nothing in Mountjoy's conduct which had in truth wounded him. Mountjoy's vices had been
dangerous, destructive, absurdly foolish, but not, to his father, a shame. He ridiculed gambling
as a source of excitement. No man could win much without dishonest practices, and fraud at
cards would certainly be detected. But he did not on that account hate cards. There was no
reason why Mountjoy should not become to him as pleasant a companion as ever for the few days
that might be left to him, if only he would come. But, when asked, he refused to come. When
the squire received the letter above given he was not in the least angry with his son, but
simply determined, if possible, that he should be brought to Tretton. Mountjoy's debts would
now be paid, and something, if possible, should be done for him. He was so angry with Augustus
that he would, if possible, revoke his last decision;--but that, alas! would be impossible.

Sir William Brodrick had, when he last saw him, expressed some hope,--not of his recovery,
which was by all admitted to be impossible,--but of his continuance in the land of the living
for another three months, or perhaps six, as Sir William had finally suggested, opening out,
as he himself seemed to think, indefinite hope. "The most wonderful constitution, Mr. Scarborough,
I ever saw in my life. I've never known a dog even so cut about, and yet bear it." Mr. Scarborough
bowed and smiled, and accepted the compliment. He would have taken the hat off his head, had
it been his practice to wear a hat in his sitting-room. Mr. Merton had gone farther. Of course
he did not mean, he said, to set up his opinion against Sir William's; but if Mr. Scarborough
would live strictly by rule, Mr. Merton did not see why either three months or six should be
the end of it. Mr. Scarborough had replied that he could not undertake to live precisely by
rule, and Mr. Merton had shaken his head. But from that time forth Mr. Scarborough did endeavor
to obey the injunctions given to him. He had something worth doing in the six months now offered
to him.

He had heard lately very much of the story of Harry Annesley, and had expressed great anger
at the ill-usage to which that young man had been subjected. It had come to his ears that it
was intended that Harry should lose the property he had expected, and that he had already lost
his immediate income. This had come to him through Mr. Merton, between whom and Augustus Scarborough
there was no close friendship. And the squire understood that Florence Mountjoy had been the
cause of Harry's misfortune. He himself recognized it as a fact that his son Mountjoy was unfit
to marry any young lady. Starvation would assuredly stare such young lady in the face. But
not the less was he acerbated and disgusted at the idea that Augustus should endeavor to take
the young lady to himself. "What!" he had exclaimed to Mr. Merton; "he wants both the property
and the girl. There is nothing on earth that he does not want. The greater the impropriety
in his craving, the stronger the craving." Then he picked up by degrees all the details of
the midnight feud between Harry and Mountjoy, and set himself to work to undermine Augustus.
But he had steadily carried out the plan for settling with the creditors, and, with the aid
of Mr. Grey, had, as he thought, already concluded that business. Conjunction with Augustus
had been necessary, but that had been obtained.

It is not too much to say that, at the present moment of his life, the idea of doing some injury
to Augustus was the one object which exercised Mr. Scarborough's mind. Since he had fallen
into business relations with his younger son he had become convinced that a more detestable
young man did not exist. The reader will, perhaps, agree with Mr. Scarborough, but it can hardly
be hoped that he should entertain the opinion as strongly.

Augustus was now the recognized eldest legitimate son of the squire; and as the property was
entailed it must no doubt belong to him. But the squire was turning in his mind all means of
depriving that condition as far as was possible of its glory. When he had first heard of the
injury that had been done to Harry Annesley, he thought that he would leave to our hero all
the furniture, all the gems, all the books, all the wine, all the cattle which were accumulated
at Tretton. Augustus should have the bare acres, and still barer house, but nothing else. In
thinking of this he had been actuated by a conviction that it would be useless for him to leave
them to Mountjoy. Whatever might be left to Mountjoy would in fact be left to the creditors;
and therefore Harry Annesley with his injuries had been felt to be a proper recipient, not
of the squire's bounty, but of the results of his hatred for his son.

To run counter to the law! That had ever been the chief object of the squire's ambition. To
arrange everything so that it should be seen that he had set all laws at defiance! That had
been his great pride. He had done so notably, and with astonishing astuteness, in reference
to his wife and two sons. But now there had come up a condition of things in which he could
again show his cleverness. Augustus had been most anxious to get up all the post-obit bonds
which the creditors held, feeling, as his father well understood, that he would thus prevent
them from making any farther inquiry when the squire should have died. Why should they stir
in the matter by going to law when there would be nothing to be gained? Those bonds had now
been redeemed, and were in the possession of Mr. Grey. They had been bought up nominally by
himself, and must be given to him. Mr. Grey, at any rate, would have the proof that they had
been satisfied. They could not be used again to gratify any spite that Augustus might entertain.
The captain, therefore, could now enjoy any property which might be left to him. Of course,
it would all go to the gaming-table. It might even yet be better to leave it to Harry Annesley.
But blood was thicker than water,--though it were but the blood of a bastard. He would do a
good turn for Harry in another way. All the furniture, and all the gems, and all the money,
should again be the future property of Mountjoy.

But in order that this might be effected before he died he must not let the grass grow under
his feet. He thought of the promised three months, with a possible extension to six, as suggested
by Sir William. "Sir William says three months," he said to Mr. Merton, speaking in the easiest
way of the possibility of his living.

"He said six."

"Ah! that is, if I do what I'm told. But I shall not exactly do that. Three or six would be
all the same, only for a little bit of business I want to get through. Sir William's orders
would include the abandonment of my business."

"The less done the better. Then I do not see why Sir William should limit you to six months."

"I think that three will nearly suffice."

"A man does not want to die, I suppose," said Merton.

"There are various ways of looking at that question," replied the squire. "Many men desire
the prolongation of life as a lengthened period of enjoyment. There is, perhaps, something
of that feeling with me; but when you see how far I am crippled and curtailed, how my enjoyments
are confined to breathing the air, to eating and drinking, and to the occasional reading of
a few pages, you must admit that there cannot be much of that. A conversation with you is the
best of it. Some want to live for the sake of their wives and children. In the ordinary acceptation
of the words, that is all over with me. Many desire to live because they fear to die. There
is nothing of that in me, I can assure you. I am not afraid to meet my Creator. But there are
those who wish for life that their purposes of love, or stronger purposes of hatred, may be
accomplished. I am among the number. But, on that account, I only wish it till those purposes
have been completed. I think I'll go to sleep for an hour; but there are a couple of letters
I want you to write before post-time." Then Mr. Scarborough turned himself round and thought
of the letters he was to write. Mr. Merton went out, and as he wandered about the park in the
dirt and slush of December tried to make up his mind whether he most admired his patron's philosophy
or condemned his general lack of principle.

At the proper hour he appeared again, and found Mr. Scarborough quite alert. "I don't know
whether I shall have the three months, unless I behave better," he said. "I have been thinking
about those letters, and very nearly made an attempt to write them. There are things about
a son which a father doesn't wish to communicate to any one." Merton only shook his head. "I'm
not a bit afraid of you, nor do I care for your knowing what I have to say. But there are words
which it would be difficult even to write, and almost impossible to dictate." But he did make
the attempt, though he did not find himself able to say all that he had intended. The first
letter was to the lawyer:

"My dear Mr. Grey,--You will be surprised at my writing to summon you once again to my bedside.
I think there was some kind of a promise made that the request should not be repeated; but
the circumstances are of such a nature that I do not well know how to avoid it. However, if
you refuse to come, I will give you my instructions. It is my purpose to make another will,
and to leave everything that I am capable of leaving to my son Mountjoy. You are aware that
he is now free from debt, and capable of enjoying any property that he may possess. As circumstances
are at present he would on my death be absolutely penniless, and Heaven help the man who should
find himself dependent on the mercy of Augustus Scarborough.

"What I possess would be the balance at the bank, the house in town, and everything contained
in and about Tretton, as to which I should wish that the will should be very explicit in making
it understood that every conceivable item of property is to belong to Mountjoy. I know the
strength of an entail, and not for worlds would I venture to meddle with anything so holy."
There came a grin of satisfaction over his face as he uttered these words, and his scribe was
utterly unable to keep from laughing. "But as Augustus must have the acres, let him have them
bare."

"Underscore that word, if you please;" and the word was underscored. "If I had time I would
have every tree about the place cut down."

"I don't think you could under the entail," said Merton.

"I would use up every stick in building the farmers' barns and mending the farmers' gates,
and I would cover an acre just in front of the house with a huge conservatory. I respect the
law, my boy, and they would find it difficult to prove that I had gone beyond it. But there
is no time for that kind of finished revenge."

Then he went on with the letter: "You will understand what I mean. I wish to divide my property
so that Mountjoy may have everything that is not strictly entailed. You will of course say
that it will all go to the gambling-table. It may go to the devil, so that Augustus does not
have it. But it need not go to the gambling-table. If you would consent to come down to me
once more we might possibly devise some scheme for saving it. But whether we can do so or not,
it is my request that my last will may be prepared in accordance with these instructions.

"Very faithfully yours,

"JOHN SCARBOROUGH."

"And now for the other," said Mr. Scarborough.

"Had you not better rest a bit?" asked Merton.

"No; this is a kind of work at which a man does not want to rest. He is carried on by his own
solicitudes and his own eagerness. This will be very short, and when it is done then, perhaps,
I may sleep."

The second letter was as follows:

"My dear Mountjoy,--I think you are foolish in allowing yourself to be prevented from coming
here by a sentiment. But in truth, independently of the pleasure I should derive from your
company, I wish you to be here on a matter of business which is of some importance to yourself.
I am about to make a new will; and although I am bound to pay every respect to the entail,
and would not for worlds do anything in opposition to the law, still I may be enabled to do
something for your benefit. Your brother has kindly interfered for the payment of your creditors;
and as all the outstanding bonds have been redeemed, you would now, by his generosity, be enabled
to enjoy any property which might be left to you. There are a few tables and chairs at my disposal,
and a gem or two, and some odd volumes which perhaps you might like to possess. I have written
to Mr. Grey on the subject, and I would wish you to see him. This you might do, whether you
come here or not. But I do not the less wish that you should come.

"Your affectionate father,

"JOHN SCARBOROUGH."

"I think that the odd volumes will fetch him. He was always fond of literature."

"I suppose it means the entire library?" replied Merton.

"And he likes tables and chairs. I think he will come and look after the tables and chairs."

"Why not beds and washhand-stands?" said Mr. Merton.

"Well, yes; he may have the beds and washhand-stands. Mountjoy is not a fool, and will understand
very well what I mean. I wonder whether I could scrape the paper off the drawing-room walls,
and leave the scraps to his brother, without interfering with the entail? But now I am tired,
and will rest."

But he did not even then go to rest, but lay still scheming, scheming, scheming, about the
property. There was now another letter to be written, for the writing of which he would not
again summon Mr. Merton. He was half ashamed to do so, and at last sent for his sister. "Martha,"
said he, "I want you to write a letter for me."

"Mr. Merton has been writing letters for you all the morning."

"That's just the reason why you should write one now. I am still in some slight degree afraid
of his authority, but I am not at all afraid of yours."

"You ought to be quiet, John; indeed you ought."

"And, in order that I may be quiet, you must write this letter. It's nothing particular, or
I should not have asked you to do it. It's only an invitation."

"An invitation to ask somebody here?"

"Yes; to ask somebody to come here. I don't know whether he'll come."

"Do I know him?"

"I hope you may, if he comes. He's a very good-looking young man, if that is anything."

"Don't talk nonsense, John."

"But I believe he's engaged to another young lady, with whom I must beg you not to interfere.
You remember Florence?"

"Florence Mountjoy? Of course I remember my own niece."

"The young man is engaged to her."

"She was intended for poor Mountjoy."

"Poor Mountjoy has put himself beyond all possibility of a wife."

"Poor Mountjoy!"--and the soft-hearted aunt almost shed tears.

"But we haven't to do with Mountjoy now. Sit down there and begin. 'Dear Mr. Annesley--'"

"Oh! It's Mr. Annesley, is it?"

"Yes, it is. Mr. Annesley is the handsome young man. Have you any objection?"

"Only people do say--"

"What do they say?"

"Of course I don't know; only I have heard--"

"That he is a scoundrel!"

"Scoundrel is very strong," said the old lady, shocked.

"A villain, a liar, a thief, and all the rest of it. That's what you have heard. And I'll tell
you who has been your informant. Either first or second hand, it has come to you from Mr. Augustus
Scarborough. Now we'll begin again. 'Dear Mr. Annesley--'" The old lady paused a moment, and
then, setting herself firmly to the task, commenced and finished her letter, as follows:

"Dear Mr. Annesley,--You spent a few days here on one occasion, and I want to renew the pleasure
which your visit gave me. Will you extend your kindness so far as to come to Tretton for any
time you may please to name beyond two or three days? I am sorry to say that your friend Augustus
Scarborough cannot be here to meet you. My other son, Mountjoy, may be here. If you wish to
escape him, I will endeavor so to fix the time when I shall have heard from you. But I think
there need be no ill blood there. Neither of you did anything of which you are, probably, ashamed;
though as an old man I am bound to express my disapproval."

("Surely he must be ashamed," said Miss Scarborough.

"Never you mind. Believe me, you know nothing about it." Then he went on with his letter.)

"But it is not merely for the pleasure of your society that I ask you. I have a word to say
to you which may be important. Yours faithfully,

"JOHN SCARBOROUGH."

CHAPTER XXXIX.

HOW THE LETTERS WERE RECEIVED.

We must now describe the feelings of Mr. Scarborough's correspondents as they received his
letters. When Mr. Grey begun to read that which was addressed to him he declared that on no
consideration would he go down to Tretton. But when he came to inquire within himself as to
his objection he found that it lay chiefly in his great dislike to Augustus Scarborough. For
poor Mountjoy, as he called him, he entertained a feeling of deep pity,--and pity we know,
is akin to love. And for the squire, he in his heart felt but little of that profound dislike
which he was aware such conduct as the squire's ought to have generated. "He is the greatest
rascal that I ever knew," he said again and again, both to Dolly and to Mr. Barry. But yet
he did not regard him as an honest man regards a rascal, and was angry with himself in consequence.
He knew that there remained with him even some spark of love for Mr. Scarborough, which to
himself was inexplicable. From the moment in which he had first admitted the fact that Augustus
Scarborough was the true heir-at-law, he had been most determined in taking care that that
heirship should be established. It must be known to all men that Mountjoy was not the eldest
son of his father, as the law required him to be for the inheritance of the property, and that
Augustus was the eldest son; but in arranging that these truths should be notorious it had
come to pass that he had learned to hate Augustus with an intensity that had redounded to the
advantage both of Mountjoy and their father. It must be so. Augustus must become Augustus Scarborough,
Esquire, of Tretton,--but the worse luck for Tretton and all connected with it. And Mr. Grey
did resolve that, when that day should come, all relation between himself and Tretton should cease.

It had never occurred to him that, by redeeming the post-obit bonds, Mountjoy would become
capable of owning and enjoying any property that might be left to him. With Tretton, all the
belongings of Tretton, in the old-fashioned way, would, of course, go to the heir. The belongings
of Tretton, which were personal property, would, in themselves, amount to wealth for a younger
son. That which Mr. Scarborough would in this way be able to bequeath might, probably, be worth
thirty thousand pounds. Out of the proceeds of the real property the debts had been paid. And
because Augustus had consented so to pay them he was now to be mulcted of those loose belongings
which gave its charm to Tretton! Because Augustus had paid Mountjoy's debts Mountjoy was to
be enabled to rob Augustus! There was a wickedness in this redolent of the old squire. But
it was a wickedness in arranging which Mr. Grey hesitated to participate. As he thought of
it, however, he could not but feel what a very clever man he had for a client.

"It will all go to the gambling-table, of course," he said that night to Dolly.

"It is no affair of ours."

"No; but when a lawyer is consulted he has to think of the prudent or imprudent disposition
of property."

"Mr. Scarborough hasn't consulted you, papa."

"I must look at it as though he had. He tells me what he intends to do, and I am bound to give
him my advice. I cannot advise him to bestow all these things on Augustus, whom I regard as
a long way the worst of the family."

"You need not care about that."

"And here, again," continued Mr. Grey, "comes up the question,--what is it that duty demands?
Augustus is the eldest son, and is entitled to what the law allots him; but Mountjoy was brought
up as the eldest son, and is certainly entitled to what provision the father can make him."

"You cannot provide for such a gambler."

"I don't know that that comes within my duty. It is not my fault that Mountjoy is a gambler,
any more than that it is my fault that Augustus is a beast. Gambler and beast, there they are.
And, moreover, nothing will turn the squire from his purpose. I am only a tool in his hands,--a
trowel for the laying of his mortar and bricks. Of course I must draw his will, and shall do
it with some pleasure, because it will dispossess Augustus."

Then Mr. Grey went to bed, as did also Dolly; but she was not at all surprised at being summoned
to his couch after she had been an hour in her own bed.

"I think I shall go down to Tretton," said Mr. Grey.

"You declared that you would never go there again."

"So I did; but I did not know then how much I might come to hate Augustus Scarborough."

"Would you go to Tretton merely to injure him?" said his daughter.

"I have been thinking about that," said Mr. Grey. "I don't know that I would go simply to do
him an injury; but I think that I would go to see that justice is properly done."

"That can be arranged without your going to Tretton."

"By putting our heads together I think we can contrive that the deed shall be more effectually
performed. What we must attempt to do is to save this property from going to the gambling-table.
There is only one way that occurs to me."

"What is that?"

"It must be left to his wife."

"He hasn't a wife."

"It must be left to some woman whom he will consent to marry. There are three objects:--to
keep it from Augustus; to give the enjoyment of it to Mountjoy; and to prevent Mountjoy from
gambling with it. The only thing I can see is a wife."

"There is a girl he wants to marry," said Dolly.

"But she doesn't want to marry him, and I doubt whether he can be got to marry any one else.
There is still a peck of difficulties."

"Oh, papa, I wish you would wash your hands of the Scarboroughs."

"I must go to Tretton first," said he. "And now, my dear, you are doing no good by sitting
up here and talking to me." Then, with a smile, Dolly took herself off to her own chamber.

Mountjoy, when he got his letter, was sitting over a late breakfast in Victoria Street. It
was near twelve o'clock, and he was enjoying the delicious luxury of having his breakfast to
eat, with a cigar after it, and nothing else that he need do. But the fruition of all these
comforts was somewhat marred by the knowledge that he had no such dinner to expect. He must
go out and look for a dinner among the eating-houses. The next morning would bring him no breakfast,
and if he were to remain longer in Victoria Street he must do so in direct opposition to the
owner of the establishment. He had that morning received notice to quit, and had been told
that the following breakfast would be the last meal served to him. "Let it be good of its kind,"
Mountjoy had said.

"I believe you care for nothing but eating and drinking."

"There's little else that you can do for me." And so they had parted.

Mountjoy had taken the precaution of having his letters addressed to the house of the friendly
bootmaker; and now, as he was slowly pouring out his first cup of coffee, and thinking how
nearly it must be his last, his father's letter was brought to him. The letter had been delayed
one day, as he himself had omitted to call for it. It was necessarily a sad time for him. He
was a man who fought hard against melancholy, taking it as a primary rule of life that, for
such a one as he had become, the pleasures of the immediate moment should suffice. If one day,
or better still, one night of excitement was in store for him, the next day should be regarded
as the unlimited future, for which no man can be responsible. But such philosophy will too
frequently be insufficient for the stoutest hearts. Mountjoy's heart would occasionally almost
give way, and then his thoughts would be dreary enough. Hunger, absolute hunger, without the
assured expectation of food, had never yet come upon him; but in order to put a stop to its
cravings, if he should find it troublesome to bear, he had already provided himself with pistol
and bullets.

And now, with his cup of coffee before him, aromatic, creamy, and hot, with a filleted sole
rolled up before him on a little dish, three or four plover's eggs, on which to finish, lying
by, and, on the distance of the table, a chasse of brandy, of which he already well knew the
virtues, he got his father's letter. He did not at first open it, disliking all thoughts as
to his father. Then gradually he tore the envelope, and was slow in understanding the full
meaning of the last lines. He did not at once perceive the irony of "his brother's kindly interference,"
and of the "generosity" which had enabled him, Mountjoy, to be a recipient of property. But
his father purposed to do something for his benefit. Gradually it dawned upon him that his
father could only do that something effectually because of his brother's dealings with the
creditors.

Then the chairs and the tables, and the gem or two, and the odd volumes, one by one, made themselves
intelligible. That a father should write so to one son, and should so write of another, was
marvellous. But then his father was a marvellous man, whose character he was only beginning
to understand. His father, he told himself, had, fortunately, taken it into his head to hate
Augustus, and intended, in consequence, to strip Tretton and the property generally of all
their outside personal belongings.

Yes; he thought that, with such an object before him, he would certainly go and see Mr. Grey.
And if Mr. Grey should so advise him he would go down to Tretton. On such business as this
he would consent to see his father. He did not think that just at present he need have recourse
to his pistol for his devices. He could not on the very day go to Tretton, as it would be necessary
that he should write to his father first. His brother would probably extend his hospitality
for a couple of days when he should hear of the proposed journey, and, if not, would lend him
money for his present purposes, or under existing circumstances he might probably be able to
borrow it from Mr. Grey. With a heart elevated to almost absolute bliss he ate his breakfast,
and drank his chasse, and smoked his cigar, and then rose slowly, that he might proceed to
Mr. Grey's chambers. But at this moment Augustus came in. He had only breakfasted at his own
club, much less comfortably than he would have done at home, in order that he might not sit
at table with his brother. He had now returned so that he might see to Mountjoy's departure.
"After all, Augustus, I am going down to Tretton," said the elder brother as he folded up his
father's letter.

"What argument has the old man used now?" Mountjoy did not think it well to tell his brother
the exact nature of the arguments used, and therefore put the letter into his pocket.

"He wishes to say something to me about property," said Mountjoy.

Then some idea of the old squire's scheme fell with a crushing weight of anticipated sorrow
on Augustus. In a moment it all occurred to him what his father might do, what injuries he
might inflict; and,--saddest of all feelings,--there came the immediate reflection that it
had all been rendered possible by his own doings. With the conviction that so much might be
left away from him, there came also a farther feeling that, after all, there was a chance that
his father had invented the story of his brother's illegitimacy, that Mountjoy was now free
from debt, and that Tretton, with all its belongings, might now go back to him. That his father
would do it if it were possible he did not doubt. From week to week he had waited impatiently
for his father's demise, and had expected little or none of that mental activity which his
father had exercised. "What a fool he had been," he said to himself, sitting opposite to Mountjoy,
who in the vacancy of the moment had lighted another cigar; "what an ass!" Had he played his
cards better, had he comforted and flattered and cosseted the old man, Mountjoy might have
gone his own way to the dogs. Now, at the best, Tretton would come to him stripped of everything;
and,--at the worst,--no Tretton would come to him at all. "Well, what are you going to do?"
he said, roughly.

"I think I shall, probably, go down and just see the governor."

"All your feelings about your mother, then, are blown to the winds?"

"My feelings about your mother are not blown to the winds at all; but to speak of her to you
would be wasting breath."

"I hadn't the pleasure of knowing her," said Augustus. "And I am not aware that she did me
any great kindness in bringing me into the world. Do you go to Tretton this afternoon?"

"Probably not."

"Or to-morrow?"

"Possibly to-morrow," said Mountjoy.

"Because I shall find it convenient to have your room."

"To-day, of course, I cannot stir. To-morrow morning I should, at any rate, like to have my
breakfast." Here he paused for a reply, but none came from his brother. "I must have some money
to go down to Tretton with; I suppose you can lend it me just for the present?"

"Not a shilling," said Augustus, in thorough ill-humor.

"I shall be able to pay you very shortly."

"Not a shilling. The return I have had from you for all that I have done is not of a nature
to make me do more."

"If I had ever thought that you had expended a sovereign except for the object of furthering
some plot of your own, I should have been grateful. As it is I do not know that we owe very
much to each other." Then he left the room, and, getting into a cab, went away to Lincoln's Inn.

Harry Annesley received Mr. Scarborough's letter down at Buston, and was much surprised by
it. He had not spent the winter hitherto very pleasantly. His uncle he had never seen, though
he had heard from day to day sundry stories of his wooing. He had soon given up his hunting,
feeling himself ashamed, in his present nameless position, to ride Joshua Thoroughbung's horses.
He had taken to hard reading, but the hard reading had failed, and he had been given up to
the miseries of his position. The hard reading had been continued for a fortnight or three
weeks, during which he had, at any rate, respected himself, but in an evil hour he had allowed
it to escape from him, and now was again miserable. Then the invitation from Tretton had been
received. "I have got a letter; 'tis from Mr. Scarborough of Tretton."

"What does Mr. Scarborough say?"

"He wants me to go down there."

"Do you know Mr. Scarborough? I believe you have altogether quarrelled with his son?"

"Oh yes; I have quarrelled with Augustus, and have had an encounter with Mountjoy not on the
most friendly terms. But the father and Mountjoy seem to be reconciled. You can see his letter.
I, at any rate, shall go there." To this Mr. Annesley senior had no objection to make.

CHAPTER XL.

VISITORS AT TRETTON.

It so happened that the three visitors who had been asked to Tretton all agreed to go on the
same day. There was, indeed, no reason why Harry should delay his visit, and much why the other
two should expedite theirs. Mr. Grey knew that the thing, if done at all, should be done at
once; and Mountjoy, as he had agreed to accept his father's offer, could not put himself too
quickly under the shelter of his father's roof. "You can have twenty pounds," Mr. Grey had
said when the subject of the money was mooted. "Will that suffice?" Mountjoy had said that
it would suffice amply, and then, returning to his brother's rooms, had waited there with what
patience he possessed till he sallied forth to The Continental to get the best dinner which
that restaurant could afford him. He was beginning to feel that his life was very sad in London,
and to look forward to the glades of Tretton with some anticipation of rural delight.

He went down by the same train with Mr. Grey,--"a great grind," as Mountjoy called it, when
Mr. Grey proposed a departure at ten o'clock. Harry followed so as to reach Tretton only in
time for dinner. "If I may venture to advise you," said Mr. Grey in the train, "I should do
in this matter whatever my father asked me." Hereupon Mountjoy frowned. "He is anxious to make
some provision for you."

"I'm not grateful to my father, if you mean that."

"It is hard to say whether you should be grateful. But, from the first, he has done the best
he could for you, according to his lights."

"You believe all this about my mother?"

"I do."

"I don't. That's the difference. And I don't think that Augustus believes it."

"The story is undoubtedly true."

"You must excuse me if I will not accept it."

"At any rate, you had parted with your share in the property."

"My share was the whole."

"After your father's death," said Mr. Grey; "and that was gone."

"We needn't discuss the property. What is it that he expects me to do now?"

"Simply to be kind in your manner to him, and to agree to what he says about the personal property.
It is his intention, as far as I understand it, to leave you everything."

"He is very kind."

"I think he is."

"Only it would all have been mine if he had not cheated me of my birthright."

"Or Mr. Tyrrwhit's, and Mr. Hart's, and Mr. Spicer's."

"Mr. Tyrrwhit, and Mr. Hart, and Mr. Spicer could not have robbed me of my name. Let them have
done what they would with their bonds, I should have been, at any rate, Scarborough of Tretton.
My belief is that I need not blush for my mother. He has made it appear that I should do so.
I can't forgive him because he gives me the chairs and tables."

"They will be worth thirty thousand pounds," said Mr. Grey.

"I can't forgive him."

The cloud sat very black upon Mountjoy Scarborough's face as he said this, and the blacker
it sat the more Mr. Grey liked him. If something could be done to redeem from ruin a young
man who so felt about his mother,--who so felt about his mother simply because she had been
his mother,--it would be a good thing to do. Augustus had entertained no such feeling. He had
said to Mr. Grey, as he had said also to his brother, that "he had not known the lady." When
the facts as to the distribution of the property had been made known to him he had cared nothing
for the injury done by the story to his mother's name. The story was too true. Mr. Grey knew
that it was true; but he could not on that account do other than feel an intense desire to
confer some benefit on Mountjoy Scarborough. He put his hand out affectionately and laid it
on the other man's knee. "Your father has not long to live, Captain Scarborough."

"I suppose not."

"And he is at present anxious to make what reparation is in his power. What he can leave you
will produce, let us say, fifteen hundred a year. Without a will from him you would have to
live on your brother's bounty."

"By Heaven, no!" said Mountjoy, thinking of the pistol and the bullets.

"I see nothing else."

"I see, but I cannot explain."

"Do you not think that fifteen hundred a year would be better than nothing,--with a wife, let
us say?" said Mr. Grey, beginning to introduce the one argument on which he believed so much
must depend.

"With a wife?"

"Yes; with a wife."

"With what wife? A wife may be very well, but a wife must depend on who it is. Is there any
one that you mean?"

"Not exactly any particular person," said the lawyer, lamely.

"Pshaw! What do I want with a wife? Do you mean to say that my father has told you that he
intends to clog his legacy with the burden of a wife? I would not accept it with such a burden,--unless
I could choose the wife myself. To tell the truth, there is a girl--"

"Your cousin?"

"Yes; my cousin. When I was well-to-do in the world I was taught to believe that I could have
her. If she will be mine, Mr. Grey, I will renounce gambling altogether. If my father can manage
that I will forgive him,--or will endeavor to do so. The property which he can leave me shall
be settled altogether upon her. I will endeavor to reform myself, and so to live that no misfortune
shall come upon her. If that is what you mean, say so."

"Well, not quite that."

"To no other marriage will I agree. That has been the dream of my life through all those moments
of hot excitement and assured despair which I have endured. Her mother has always told me that
it should be so, and she herself in former days did not deny it. Now you know it all. If my
father wishes to see me married, Florence Mountjoy must be my wife." Then he sunk back on his
seat, and nothing more was said between them till they had reached Tretton.

The father and son had not met each other since the day on which the former had told the latter
the story of his birth. Since then Mountjoy had disappeared from the world, and for a few days
his father had thought that he had been murdered. But now they met as they might have done
had they seen each other a week ago. "Well, Mountjoy, how are you?" And, "How are you, sir?"
Such were the greetings between them. And no others were spoken. In a few minutes the son was
allowed to go and look after the rural joys he had anticipated, and the lawyer was left closeted
with the squire.

Mr. Grey soon explained his proposition. Let the property be left to trustees who should realize
from it what money it should fetch, and keep the money in their own hands, paying Mountjoy
the income. "There could," he said, "be nothing better done, unless Mountjoy would agree to
marry. He is attached, it seems, to his cousin," said Mr. Grey, "and he is unwilling at present
to marry any one else."

"He can't marry her," said the squire.

"I do not know the circumstances."

"He can't marry her. She is engaged to the young man who will be here just now. I told you,--did
I not?--that Harry Annesley is coming here. My son knows that he will be here to-day."

"Everybody knows the story of Mr. Annesley and the captain."

"They are to sit down to dinner together, and I trust they may not quarrel. The lady of whom
you are speaking is engaged to young Annesley, and Mountjoy's suit in that direction is hopeless."

"Hopeless, you think?"

"Utterly hopeless. Your plan of providing him with a wife would be very good if it were feasible.
I should be very glad to see him settled. But if he will marry no one but Florence Mountjoy
he must remain unmarried. Augustus has had his hand in that business, and don't let us dabble
in it." Then the squire gave the lawyer full instructions as to the will which was to be made.
Mr. Grey and Mr. Bullfist were to be named as trustees, with instructions to sell everything
which it would be in the squire's legal power to bequeath. The books, the gems, the furniture,
both at Tretton and in London, the plate, the stock, the farm-produce, the pictures on the
walls, and the wine in the cellars, were all named. He endeavored to persuade Mr. Grey to consent
to a cutting of the timber, so that the value of it might be taken out of the pocket of the
younger brother and put into that of the elder. But to this Mr. Grey would not assent. "There
would be an air of persecution about it," he said, "and it mustn't be done." But to the general
stripping of Tretton for the benefit of Mountjoy he gave a cordial agreement.

"I am not quite sure that I have done with Augustus as yet," said the squire. "I had made up
my mind not to be put out by trifles; not to be vexed at a little. My treatment of my children
has been such that, though I have ever intended to do them good, I must have seemed to each
at different periods to have injured him. I have not, therefore, expected much from them. But
I have received less than nothing from Augustus. It is possible that he may hear from me again."
To this Mr. Grey said nothing, but he had taken his instructions about the drawing of the will.

Harry came down by the train in time for dinner. On the journey down he had been perplexed
in his mind, thinking of various things. He did not quite understand why Mr. Scarborough had
sent for him. His former intimacy had been with Augustus, and though there had been some cordiality
of friendship shown by the old man to the son's companion, it had amounted to no more than
might be expected from one who was notably good-natured. A great injury had been done to Harry,
and he supposed that his visit must have some reference to that injury. He had been told in
so many words that, come when he might, he would not find Augustus at Tretton. From this and
from other signs he almost saw that there existed a quarrel between the squire and his son.
Therefore he felt that something was to be said as to the state of his affairs at Buston.

But if, as the train drew near to Tretton, he was anxious as to his meeting with the squire,
he was much more so as to the captain. The reader will remember all the circumstances under
which they two had last seen each other Harry had been furiously attacked by Mountjoy, and
had then left him sprawling,--dead, as some folks had said on the following day,--under the
rail. His only crime had been that he was drunk. If the disinherited one would give him his
hand and let by-gones be by-gones, he would do the same. He felt no personal animosity. But
there was a difficulty.

As he was driven up to the door in a cab belonging to the squire there was Mountjoy, standing
before the house. He too had thought of the difficulties, and had made up his mind that it
would not do for him to meet his late foe without some few words intended for the making of
peace. "I hope you are well, Mr. Annesley," he said, offering his hand as the other got out
of the cab. "It may be as well that I should apologize at once for my conduct. I was at that
moment considerably distressed, as you may have heard. I had been declared to be penniless,
and to be nobody. The news had a little unmanned me, and I was beside myself."

"I quite understand it; quite understand it," said Annesley, giving his hand. "I am very glad
to see you back again, and in your father's house." Then Mountjoy turned on his heel, and went
through the hall, leaving Harry to the care of the butler. The captain thought that he had
done enough, and that the affair in the street might now be regarded as a dream. Harry was
taken up to shake hands with the old man, and in due time came down to dinner, where he met
Mr. Grey and the young doctor. They were all very civil to him, and upon the whole, he spent
a pleasant evening. On the next day, about noon, the squire sent for him. He had been told
at breakfast that it was the squire's intention to see him in the middle of the day, and he
had been unable, therefore, to join Mountjoy's shooting-party.

"Sit down, Mr. Annesley," said the old man. "You were surprised, no doubt, when you got my
invitation?"

"Well, yes; perhaps so; but I thought it very kind."

"I meant to be kind; but still, it requires some explanation. You see, I am such an old cripple
that I cannot give invitations like anybody else. Now you are here I must not eat and drink
with you, and in order to say a few words to you I am obliged to keep you in the house till
the doctor tells me I am strong enough to talk."

"I am glad to find you so much better than when I was here before."

"I don't know much about that. There will never be a 'much better' in my case. The people about
me talk with the utmost unconcern of whether I can live one month or possibly two. Anything
beyond that is quite out of the question." The squire took a pride in making the worst of his
case, so that the people to whom he talked should marvel the more at his vitality. "But we
won't mind my health now. It is true, I fear, that you have quarrelled with your uncle."

"It is quite true that he has quarrelled with me."

"I am afraid that that is more important. He means, if he can, to cut you out of the entail."

"He does not mean that I shall have the property if he can prevent it."

"I don't think very much of entails myself," said the squire. "If a man has a property he should
be able to leave it as he pleases; or--or else he doesn't have it."

"That is what the law intends, I suppose," said Harry.

"Just so; but the law is such an old woman that she never knows how to express herself to any
purpose. I haven't allowed the law to bind me. I dare say you know the story."

"About your two sons,--and the property? I think all the world knows the story."

"I suppose it has been talked about a little," said the squire, with a chuckle. "My object
has been to prevent the law from handing over my property to the fraudulent claims which my
son's creditors were enabled to make, and I have succeeded fairly well. On that head I have
nothing to regret. Now your uncle is going to take other means."

"Yes; he is going to take means which, are, at any rate, lawful."

"But which will be tedious, and may not, perhaps, succeed. He is intending to have an heir
of his own."

"That I believe is his purpose," said Harry.

"There is no reason why he shouldn't;--but he mayn't, you know."

"He is not married yet."

"No;--he is not married yet. And then he has also stopped the allowance he used to make you."
Harry nodded assent. "Now, all this is a great shame."

"I think so."

"The poor gentleman has been awfully bamboozled."

"He is not so very old," said Harry, "I don't think he is more than fifty."

"But he is an old goose. You'll excuse me, I know. Augustus Scarborough got him up to London,
and filled him full of lies."

"I am aware of it."

"And so am I aware of it. He has told him stories as to your conduct with Mountjoy which, added
to some youthful indiscretions of your own--"

"It was simply because I didn't like to hear him read sermons."

"That was an indiscretion, as he had the power in his hands to do you an injury. Most men have
got some little bit of petty tyranny in their hearts. I have had none." To this Harry could
only bow. "I let my two boys do as they pleased, only wishing that they should lead happy lives.
I never made them listen to sermons, or even to lectures. Probably I was wrong. Had I tyrannized
over them, they would not have tyrannized over me as they have done. Now I'll tell you what
it is that I propose to do. I will write to your uncle, or will get Mr. Merton to write for
me, and will explain to him, as well as I can, the depth, and the blackness, and the cruelty,--the
unfathomable, heathen cruelty, together with the falsehoods, the premeditated lies, and the
general rascality on all subjects,--of my son Augustus. I will explain to him that, of all
men I know, he is the least trustworthy. I will explain to him that, if led in a matter of
such importance by Augustus Scarborough, he will be surely led astray. And I think that between
us,--between Merton and me, that is,--we can concoct a letter that shall be efficacious. But
I will get Mountjoy also to go and see him, and explain to him out of his own mouth what in
truth occurred that night when he and you fell out in the streets. Mr. Prosper must be a more
vindictive man than I take him to be in regard to sermons if he will hold out after that."
Then Mr. Scarborough allowed him to go out, and if possible find the shooters somewhere about
the park.

CHAPTER XLI.

MOUNTJOY SCARBOROUGH GOES TO BUSTON.

Mr. Grey returned to London after staying but one night, having received fresh instructions
as to the will. The will was to be prepared at once, and Mr. Barry was to bring it down for
execution. "Shall I not inform Augustus?" asked Mr. Grey.

But this did not suit with Mr. Scarborough's views of revenge. "I think not. I would do by
him whatever honesty requires; but I have never told him that I mean to leave him anything.
Of course he knows that he is to have the estate. He is revelling in the future poverty of
poor Mountjoy. He turned him out of his house just now because Mountjoy would not obey him
by going to--Brazil. He would turn him out of this house if he could because I won't at once
go--to the devil. He is something overmasterful, is Master Augustus, and a rub or two will
do him good. I'd rather you wouldn't tell him, if you please." Then Mr. Grey departed, without
making any promise, but he determined that he would be guided by the squire's wishes. Augustus
Scarborough was not of a nature to excite very warmly the charity of any man.

Harry remained for two or three days' shooting with Mountjoy, and once or twice he saw the
squire again. "Merton and I have managed to concoct that letter," said the squire. "I'm afraid
your uncle will find it rather long. Is he impatient of long letters?"

"He likes long sermons."

"If anybody will listen to his reading. I think you have a deal to answer for yourself, when
you could not make so small a sacrifice to the man to whom you were to owe everything. But
he ought to look for a wife in consequence of that crime, and not falsely allege another. If,
as I fear, he finds the wife-plan troublesome, our letter may perhaps move him, and Mountjoy
is to go down and open his eyes. Mountjoy hasn't made any difficulty about it."

"I shall be greatly distressed--" Harry begun.

"Not at all. He must go. I like to have my own way in these little matters. He owes you as
much reparation as that, and we shall be able to see what members of the Scarborough family
you would trust the most."

Harry, during the two days, shot some hares in company with Mountjoy, but not a word more was
said about the adventure in London. Nor was the name of Florence Mountjoy ever mentioned between
the two suitors. "I'm going to Buston, you know," Mountjoy said once.

"So your father told me."

"What sort of a fellow shall I find your uncle?"

"He's a gentleman, but not very wise." No more was said between them on that head, but Mountjoy
spoke at great length about his own brother and his father's will.

"My father is the most singular man you ever came across."

"I think he is."

"I am not going to say a good word for him. I wouldn't let him think that I had said a good
word for him. In order to save the property he has maligned my mother, and has cheated me and
the creditors most horribly--most infernally. That's my conviction, though Grey thinks otherwise.
I can't forgive him,--and won't; and he knows it. But after that he is going to do the best
thing he can for me. And he has begun by making me a decent allowance again as his son. But
I'm to have that only as long as I remain here at Tretton. Of course I have been fond of cards."

"I suppose so."

"Not a doubt of it. But I haven't touched a card now for a month nearly. And then he is going
to leave me what property he has to leave. And he and my brother have paid off those Jews among
them. I'm not a bit obliged to my brother. He's got some game of his own which I don't quite
clearly see, and my father is doing this for me simply to spite my brother. He'd cut down every
tree upon the place if Grey would allow it. And yet, to give Augustus the property, my father
has done this gross injustice."

"I suppose the money-lenders would have had the best of it had he not."

"That's true. They would have had it all. They had measured every yard of it, and had got my
name down for the full value. Now they're paid."

"That's a comfort."

"Nothing's a comfort. I know that they're right, and that if I got the money into my own hand
it would be gone to-morrow. I should be off to Monte Carlo like a shot; and, of course it would
go after the other. There is but one thing would redeem me."

"What's that?"

"Never mind. We won't talk of it." Then he was silent, but Harry Annesley knew very well that
he had alluded to Florence Mountjoy.

Then Harry went, and Mountjoy was left to the companionship of Mr. Merton, and such pleasure
as he could find in a daily visit to his father. He was, at any rate, courteous in his manner
to the old man, and abstained from those irritating speeches which Augustus had always chosen
to make. He had on one occasion during this visit told his father what he thought about him,
but this the squire had taken quite as a compliment.

"I believe, you know, that you've done a monstrous injustice to everybody concerned."

"I rather like doing what you call injustices."

"You have set the law at defiance."

"Well, yes; I think I have done that."

"According to my belief, it's all untrue."

"You mean about your mother. I like you for that; I do, indeed. I like you for sticking up
for your poor mother. Well, now you shall have fifty pounds a month,--say twelve pounds ten
a week,--as long as you remain at Tretton, and you may have whom you like here, as long as
they bring no cards with them. And if you want to hunt there are horses, and if they ain't
good enough you can get others. But if you go away from Tretton there's an end of it. It will
all be stopped the next day." Nevertheless, he did make arrangements by which Mountjoy should
proceed to Buston, stopping two nights as he went to London. "There isn't a club he can enter,"
said the squire, comforting himself, "nor a Jew that will lend him a five-pound note."

Mountjoy had told the truth when he had said that nothing was a comfort. Though it seemed to
his father and to the people around him at Tretton that he had everything that a man could
want, he had, in fact, nothing,--nothing to satisfy him. In the first place, he was quite alive
to the misery of that decision given by the world against him, which had been of such comfort
to his father. Not a club in London would admit him. He had been proclaimed a defaulter after
such a fashion that all his clubs had sent to him for some explanation; and as he had given
none, and had not answered their letters, his name had been crossed out in the books of them
all. He knew himself to be a man disgraced, and when he had fled from London he had gone under
the conviction that he would certainly never return. There were the pistol and bullet as his
last assured resource; but a certain amount of good-fortune had awaited him,--enough to save
him from having recourse to their aid. His brother had supplied him with small sums of money,
and from time to time a morsel of good luck had enabled him to gamble, not to his heart's content,
but still in some manner so as to make his life bearable. But now he was back in his own country,
and he could gamble not at all, and hardly even see those old companions with whom he had lived.
It was not only for the card-tables that he sighed, but for the companions of the card-table.
And though he knew that he had been scratched out from the lists of all clubs as a dishonest
man, he knew also, or thought that he knew, that he had been as honest as the best of those
companions. As long as he could by any possibility raise money he had paid it away, and by
no false trick had he ever endeavored to get it back again.

Had a little time been allowed him all would have been paid; and all had been paid. He knew
that by the rules of such institutions time could not be granted; but still he did not feel
himself to have been a dishonest man. Yet he had been so disgraced that he could hardly venture
to walk about the streets of London in the daylight. And then there came upon him, when he
found himself alone at Tretton, an irrepressible desire for gambling. It was as though his
throat were parched with an implacable thirst. He walked about ever meditating certain fortunate
turns of the cards; and when he had worked himself up to some realization of his old excitement
he would remember that it was all a vain and empty bubble. He had money in his pocket, and
could rush up to London if he would, and if he did so he could, no doubt, find some coarse
hell at which he could stake it till it would be all gone; but the gates of the A---- and the
B---- and the C---- would be closed against him; and he would then be driven to feel that he
had indeed fallen into the nethermost pit. Were he once to play at such places as his mind
painted to him he could never play at any other; and yet when the day drew nigh on which he
was to go to London, on his way to Buston, he did bethink himself where these places were to
be found. His throat was parched, and the thirst upon him was extreme. Cards were the weapons
he had used. He had played ecarte, piquet, whist, and baccarat, with an occasional night of
some foolish game such as cribbage or vingt-et-un. Though he had always lost, he had always
played with men who had played honestly. There is much that is, in truth, dishonest even in
honest play. A man who can keep himself sober after dinner plays with one who flusters himself
with drink. The man with a trained memory plays with him who cannot remember a card. The cool
man plays with the impetuous; the man who can hold his tongue with him who cannot but talk;
the man whose practised face will tell no secrets with him who loses a point every rubber by
his uncontrolled grimaces. And then there is the man who knows the game, and plays with him
who knows it not at all. Of course, the cool, the collected, the thoughtful, the practised,--they
who have given up their whole souls to the study of cards,--will play at a great advantage,
which in their calculations they do not fail to recognize. See the man standing by and watching
the table, and leaving all the bets he can on A and B as against C and D; and, however ignorant
you may be, you will soon become sure that A and B know the game, whereas C and D are simply
infants. That is all fair and acknowledged; but looking at it from a distance, as you lie under
your apple-trees in your orchard, far from the shout of "Two by honors," you will come to doubt
the honesty of making your income after such a fashion.

Such as it is, Mountjoy sighed for it bitterly,--sighed for it, but could not see where it
was to be found. He had a gentleman's horror of those resorts in gin-shops, or kept by the
disciples of gin-shops, where he would surely be robbed,--which did not appal him,--but robbed
in bad company. Thinking of all this, he went up to London late in the afternoon, and spent
an uncomfortable evening in town. It was absolutely innocent as regarded the doings of the
night itself, but was terrible to him. There was a slow drizzling rain; but not the less after
dinner at his hotel he started off to wander through the streets. With his great-coat and his
umbrella he was almost hidden; and as he passed through Pall Mall, up St. James's Street, and
along Piccadilly, he could pause and look in at the accustomed door. He saw men entering whom
he knew, and knew that within five minutes they could be seated at their tables. "I had an
awfully heavy time of it last night," one said to another as he went up the steps; and Mountjoy,
as he heard the words, envied the speaker. Then he passed back and went again a tour of all
the clubs. What had he done that he, like a poor Peri, should be unable to enter the gates
of all these paradises? He had now in his pocket fifty pounds. Could he have been made absolutely
certain that he would have lost it, he would have gone into any paradise and have staked his
money with that certainty.

At last, having turned up Waterloo Place, he saw a man standing in the door-way of one of these
palaces, and he was aware at once that the man had seen him. He was a man of such a nature
that it would be impossible that he should have seen a worse. He was a small, dry, good-looking
little fellow, with a carefully preserved mustache, and a head from the top of which age was
beginning to move the hair. He lived by cards, and lived well. He was called Captain Vignolles,
but it was only known of him that he was a professional gambler. He probably never cheated.
Men who play at the clubs scarcely ever cheat,--there are so many with whom they play sharp
enough to discover them; and with the discovered gambler all in this world is over. Captain
Vignolles never cheated; but he found that an obedience to those little rules which I have
named above stood him well in lieu of cheating. He was not known to have any particular income,
but he was known to live on the best of everything as far as club life was concerned.

He immediately followed Mountjoy down into the street and greeted him. "Captain Scarborough
as I am a living man!"

"Well, Vignolles; how are you?"

"And so you have come back once more to the land of the living! I was awfully sorry for you,
and think that they treated you uncommon harshly. As you've paid your money, of course they'll
let you in again." In answer to this, Mountjoy had very little to say: but the interview ended
by his accepting an invitation from Captain Vignolles to supper for the following evening.
If Captain Scarborough would come at eleven o'clock Captain Vignolles would ask a few fellows
to meet him, and they would have--just a little rubber of whist. Mountjoy knew well the nature
of the man who asked him, and understood perfectly what would be the result; but there thrilled
through his bosom, as he accepted the invitation, a sense of joy which he could himself hardly
understand.

On the following morning Mountjoy was up, for him, very early, and taking a return ticket went
down to Buston. He had written to Mr. Prosper, sending his compliments, and saying that he
would do himself the honor of calling at a certain hour.

At the hour named he drew up at Buston Hall in a fly from Buntingford Station, and was told
by Matthew, the old butler, that his master was at home. If Captain Mountjoy would step into
the drawing-room Mr. Prosper should be informed. Mountjoy did as he was bidden, and after half
an hour he was joined by Mr. Prosper. "You have received a letter from my father," he began
by saying.

"A very long letter," said the Squire of Buston.

"I dare say; I did not see it, and have in fact very little to say as to its contents. I do
not know, indeed, what they were."

"The letter refers to my nephew, Mr. Henry Annesley."

"I suppose so. What I have to say refers to Mr. Henry Annesley also."

"You are kind,--very kind."

"I don't know about that; but I have come altogether at my father's instance, and I think,
indeed, that, in fairness, I ought to tell you the truth as to what took place between me and
your nephew."

"You are very good; but your father has already given me his account,--and I suppose yours."

"I don't know what my father may have done, but I think that you ought to desire to hear from
my lips an account of the transaction. An untrue account has been told to you."

"I have heard it all from your own brother."

"An untrue account has been told to you. I attacked your nephew."

"What made you do that?" asked the squire.

"That has nothing to do with it; but I did."

"I understood all that before."

"But you didn't understand that Mr. Annesley behaved perfectly well in all that occurred."

"Did he tell a lie about it afterward?"

"My brother no doubt lured him on to make an untrue statement."

"A lie!"

"You may call it so if you will. If you think that Augustus was to have it all his own way,
I disagree with you altogether. In point of fact, your nephew behaved through the whole of
that matter as well as a man could do. Practically, he told no lie at all. He did just what
a man ought to do, and anything that you have heard to the contrary is calumnious and false.
As I am told that you have been led by my brother's statement to disinherit your nephew--"

"I have done nothing of the kind."

"I am very glad to hear it. He has not, at any rate, deserved it; and I have felt it to be
my duty to come and tell you."

Then Mountjoy retired, not without hospitality having been coldly offered by Mr. Prosper, and
went back to Buntingford and to London. Now at last would come, he said to himself through
the whole afternoon, now at last would come a repetition of those joys for which his very soul
had sighed so eagerly.

CHAPTER XLII.

CAPTAIN VIGNOLLES ENTERTAINS HIS FRIENDS.

Mountjoy, when he reached Captain Vignolles's rooms, was received apparently with great indifference.
"I didn't feel at all sure you would come. But there is a bit of supper, if you like to stay.
I saw Moody this morning, and he said he would look in if he was passing this way. Now sit
down and tell me what you have been doing since you disappeared in that remarkable manner."
This was not at all what Mountjoy had expected, but he could only sit down and say that he
had done nothing in particular. Of all club men, Captain Vignolles would be the worst with
whom to play alone during the entire evening. And Mountjoy remembered now that he had never
been inside four walls with Vignolles except at a club. Vignolles regarded him simply as a
piece of prey whom chance had thrown up on the shore. And Moody, who would no doubt show himself
before long, was another bird of the same covey, though less rapacious. Mountjoy put his hand
up to his breast-pocket, and knew that the fifty pounds was there, but he knew also that it
would soon be gone.

Even to him it seemed to be expedient to get up and at once to go. What delight would there
be to him in playing piquet with such a face opposite to him as that of Captain Vignolles,
or with such a one as that of old Moody? There could be none of the brilliance of the room,
no pleasant hum of the voices of companions, no sense of his own equality with others. There
would be none to sympathize with him when he cursed his ill-luck, there would be no chance
of contending with an innocent who would be as reckless as was he himself. He looked round.
The room was gloomy and uncomfortable. Captain Vignolles watched him, and was afraid that his
prey was about to escape. "Won't you light a cigar?" Mountjoy took the cigar, and then felt
that he could not go quite at once. "I suppose you went to Monaco?"

"I was there for a short time."

"Monaco isn't bad,--though there is, of course, the pull which the tables have against you.
But it's a grand thing to think that skill can be of no avail. I often think that I ought to
play nothing but rouge et noir."

"You?"

"Yes; I. I don't deny that I'm the luckiest fellow going; but I never can remember cards. Of
course I know my trade. Every fellow knows his trade, and I'm up pretty nearly in all that
the books tell you."

"That's a great deal."

"Not when you come to play with men who know what play is. Look at Grossengrannel. I'd sooner
bet on him than any man in London. Grossengrannel never forgets a card. I'll bet a hundred
pounds that he knows the best card in every suit throughout the entire day's play. That's his
secret. He gives his mind to it,--which I can't. Hang it! I'm always thinking of something
quite different,--of what I'm going to eat, or that sort of thing. Grossengrannel is always
looking at the cards, and he wins the odd rubber out of every eleven by his attention. Shall
we have a game of piquet?"

Now on the moment, in spite of all that he had felt during the entire day, in the teeth of
all his longings, in opposition to all his thirst, Mountjoy for a minute or two did think that
he could rise and go. His father was about to put him on his legs again,--if only he would
abstain. But Vignolles had the card-table open, with clean packs, and chairs at the corners,
before he could decide. "What is it to be? Twos on the game I suppose." But Mountjoy would
not play piquet. He named ecarte, and asked that it might be only ten shillings a game. It
was many months now since he had played a game of ecarte. "Oh, hang it!" said Vignolles, still
holding the pack in his hands. When thus appealed to Mountjoy relented, and agreed that a pound
should be staked on each game. When they had played seven games Vignolles had won but one pound,
and expressed an opinion that that kind of thing wouldn't suit them at all. "School-girls would
do better," he said. Then Mountjoy pushed back his chair as though to go, when the door opened
and Major Moody entered the room. "Now we'll have a rubber at dummy," said Captain Vignolles.

Major Moody was a gray-headed old man of about sixty, who played his cards with great attention,
and never spoke a word,--either then or at any other period of his life. He was the most taciturn
of men, and was known not at all to any of his companions. It was rumored of him that he had
a wife at home, whom he kept in moderate comfort on his winnings. It seemed to be the sole
desire of his heart to play with reckless, foolish young men, who up to a certain point did
not care what they lost. He was popular, as being always ready to oblige every one, and, as
was frequently said of him, was the very soul of honor. He certainly got no amusement from
the play, working at it very hard,--and very constantly. No one ever saw him anywhere but at
the club. At eight o'clock he went home to dinner, let us hope to the wife of his bosom, and
at eleven he returned, and remained as long as there were men to play with. A tedious and unsatisfactory
life he had, and it would have been well for him could his friends have procured on his behoof
the comparative ease of a stool in a counting-house. But, as no such Elysium was opened to
him, the major went on accepting the smaller profits and the harder work of club life. In what
regiment he had been a major no one knew or cared to inquire. He had been received as Major
Moody for twenty years or more, and twenty years is surely time enough to settle a man's claim
to a majority without reference to the Army List.

"How are you, Major Moody?" asked Mountjoy.

"Not much to boast of. I hope you're pretty well, Captain Scarborough." Beyond that there was
no word of salutation, and no reference to Mountjoy's wonderful absence.

"What's it to be:--twos and tens?" said Captain Vignolles, arranging the cards and the chairs.

"Not for me," said Mountjoy, who seemed to have been enveloped by a most unusual prudence.

"What! are you afraid,--you who used to fear neither man nor devil?"

"There is so much in not being accustomed to it," said Mountjoy. "I haven't played a game of
whist since I don't knew when."

"Twos and tens is heavy against dummy," said Major Moody.

"I'll take dummy, if you like it," said Vignolles. Moody only looked at him.

"We'll each have our own dummy, of course," said Mountjoy.

"Just as you please," said Vignolles. "I'm host here, and of course will give way to anything
you may propose. What's it to be, Scarborough?"

"Pounds and fives. I shan't play higher than that." There came across Mountjoy's mind, as he
stated the stakes for which he consented to play, a remembrance that in the old days he had
always been called Captain Scarborough by this man who now left out the captain. Of course
he had fallen since that,--fallen very low. He ought to feel obliged to any man, who had in
the old days been a member of the same club with him, who would now greet him with the familiarity
of his unadorned name. But the remembrance of the old sounds came back upon his ear; and the
consciousness that, before his father's treatment of him, he had been known to the world at
large as Captain Scarborough, of Tretton.

"Well, well; pounds and fives," said Vignolles. "It's better than pottering away at ecarte
at a pound a game. Of course a man could win something if the games were to run all one way;
but where they alternate so quickly it amounts to nothing. You've got the first dummy, Scarborough.
Where will you sit? Which cards will you take? I do believe that at whist everything depends
upon the cards,--or else on the hinges. I've known eleven rubbers running to follow the hinges.
People laugh at me because I believe in luck. I speak as I find it; that's all. You've turned
up an honor already. When a man begins with an honor he'll always go on with honors; that's
my observation. I know you're pretty good at this game, Moody, so I'll leave it to you to arrange
the play, and will follow up as well as I can. You lead up to the weak, of course." This was
not said till the card was out of his partner's hand. "But when your adversary has got ace,
king, queen in his own hand there is no weak. Well, we've saved that, and it's as much as we
can expect. If I'd begun by leading a trump it would have been all over with us. Won't you
light a cigar, Moody?"

"I never smoke at cards."

"That's all very well for the club, but you might relax a little here. Scarborough will take
another cigar." But even Mountjoy was too prudent. He did not take the cigar, but he did win
the rubber. "You're in for a good thing to-night, I feel as certain of it as though the money
were in your pocket."

Mountjoy, though he would not smoke, did drink. What would they have, asked Vignolles. There
was champagne, and whiskey, and brandy. He was afraid there was no other wine. He opened a
bottle of champagne, and Mountjoy took the tumbler that was filled for him. He always drank
whiskey-and-water himself,--so he said, and filled for himself a glass in which he poured a
very small allowance of alcohol. Major Moody asked for barley-water. As there was none, he
contented himself with sipping Apollinaris.

A close record of the events of that evening would make but a tedious tale for readers. Mountjoy
of course lost his fifty pounds. Alas! he lost much more than his fifty pounds. The old spirit
soon came upon him, and the remembrance of what his father was to do for him passed away from
him, and all thoughts of his adversaries,--who and what they were. The major pertinaciously
refused to increase his stakes, and, worse again, refused to play for anything but ready money.
"It's a kind of thing I never do. You may think me very odd, but it's a kind of thing I never
do." It was the longest speech he made through the entire evening. Vignolles reminded him that
he did in fact play on credit at the club. "The committee look to that," he murmured, and shook
his head. Then Vignolles offered again to take the dummy, so that there should be no necessity
for Moody and Scarborough to play against each other, and offered to give one point every other
rubber as the price to be paid for the advantage. But Moody, whose success for the night was
assured by the thirty pounds which he had in his pocket, would come to no terms. "You mean
to say you're going to break us up," said Vignolles. "That'll be hard on Scarborough."

"I'll go on for money," said the immovable major.

"I suppose you won't have it out with me at double dummy?" said Vignolles to his victim. "But
double dummy is a terrible grind at this time of night." And he pushed all the cards up together,
so as to show that the amusement for the night was over. He too saw the difficulty which Moody
so pertinaciously avoided. He had been told wondrous things of the old squire's intentions
toward his eldest son, but he had been told them only by that eldest son himself. No doubt
he could go on winning. Unless in the teeth of a most obstinate run of cards, he would be sure
to win against Scarborough's apparent forgetfulness of all rules, and ignorance of the peculiarities
of the game he was playing. But he would more probably obtain payment of the two hundred and
thirty pounds now due to him,--that or nearly that,--than of a larger sum. He already had in
his possession the other twenty pounds which poor Mountjoy had brought with him. So he let
the victim go. Moody went first, and Vignolles then demanded the performance of a small ceremony.
"Just put your name to that," said Vignolles. It was a written promise to pay to Captain Vignolles
the exact sum of two hundred and twenty-seven pounds on or before that day week. "You'll be
punctual, won't you?"

"Of course I'll be punctual," said Mountjoy, scowling.

"Well, yes; no doubt. But there have been mistakes."

"I tell you you'll be paid. Why the devil did you win it of me if you doubt it?"

"I saw you just roaming about, and I meant to be good-natured."

"You know as well as any man what chances you should run, and when to hold your hand. If you
tell me about mistakes, I shall make it personal."

"I didn't say anything, Scarborough, that ought to be taken up in that way."

"Hang your Scarborough! When one gentleman talks another about mistakes he means something."
Then he smashed down his hat upon his head and left the room.

Vignolles emptied the bottle of champagne, in which one glass was left, and sat himself down
with the document in his hand. "Just the same fellow," he said to himself; "overbearing, reckless,
pig-headed, and a bully. He'd lose the Bank of England if he had it. But then he don't pay!
He hasn't a scruple about that. If I lose I have to pay. By Jove, yes! Never didn't pay a shilling
I lost in my life! It's deuced hard, when a fellow is on the square like that, to make two
ends meet when he comes across defaulters. Those fellows should be hung. They're the very scum
of the earth. Talk of welchers! They're worse than any welcher. Welcher is a thing you needn't
have to do with if you're careful. But when a fellow turns round upon you as a defaulter at
cards, there is no getting rid of him. Where the play is all straightforward and honorable,
a defaulter when he shows himself ought to be well-nigh murdered."

Such were Captain Vignolles's plaints to himself, as he sat there looking at the suspicious
document which Mountjoy had left in his hands. To him it was a fact that he had been cruelly
used in having such a bit of paper thrust upon him instead of being paid by a check which on
the morning would be honored. And as he thought of his own career; his ready-money payments;
his obedience to certain rules of the game,--rules, I mean, against cheating; as he thought
of his hands, which in his own estimation were beautifully clean; his diligence in his profession,
which to him was honorable; his hard work; his late hours; his devotion to a task which was
often tedious; his many periods of heart-rending loss, which when they occurred would drive
him nearly mad; his small customary gains; his inability to put by anything for old age; of
the narrow edge by which he himself was occasionally divided from defalcation, he spoke to
himself of himself as of an honest, hard-working professional man upon whom the world was peculiarly
hard.

But Major Moody went home to his wife quite content with the thirty pounds which he had won.

CHAPTER XLIII.

MR. PROSPER IS VISITED BY HIS LAWYERS.

Mr. Prosper had not been in good spirits at the time at which Mountjoy Scarborough had visited
him. He had received some time previously a letter from Mr. Grey, as described in a previous
chapter, and had also known exactly what proposal had been made by Mr. Grey to Messrs. Soames
& Simpson. An equal division of the lady's income, one half to go to the lady herself, and
the other half to Mr. Prosper, with an annuity of two hundred and fifty pounds out of the estate
for the lady if Mr. Prosper should die first: these were the terms which had been offered to
Miss Thoroughbung with the object of inducing her to become the wife of Mr. Prosper. But to
these terms Miss Thoroughbung had declined to accede, and had gone about the arrangement of
her money-matters in a most precise and business-like manner. A third of her income she would
give up, since Mr. Prosper desired it; but more than that she "would owe it to herself and
her friends to decline to abandon." The payment for the fish and the champagne must be omitted
from any agreement on her part. As to the ponies, and their harness, and the pony-carriage,
she would supply them. The ponies and the carriage would be indispensable to her happiness.
But the maintenance of the ponies must be left to Mr. Prosper. As for the dower, she could
not consent to accept less than four hundred--or five hundred, if no house was to be provided.
She thought that seven hundred and fifty would be little enough if there were no children,
as in that case there was no heir for whom Mr. Prosper was especially anxious. But as there
probably would be children, Miss Thoroughbung thought that this was a matter to which Mr. Prosper
would not give much consideration. Throughout it all she maintained a beautiful equanimity,
and made two or three efforts to induce Mr. Prosper to repeat his visit to Marmaduke Lodge.
She herself wrote to him saying that she thought it odd that, considering their near alliance,
he should not come and see her. Once she said that she had heard that he was ill, and offered
to go to Buston Hall to visit him.

All this was extremely distressing to a gentleman of Mr. Prosper's delicate feelings. As to
the proposals in regard to money, the letters from Soames & Simpson to Grey & Barry, all of
which came down to Buston Hall, seemed to be innumerable.

With Soames & Simpson Mr. Prosper declined to have any personal communication. But every letter
from the Buntingford attorneys was accompanied by a farther letter from the London attorneys,
till the correspondence became insupportable. Mr. Prosper was not strong enough to stick firmly
to his guns as planted for him by Messrs. Grey & Barry. He did give way in some matters, and
hence arose renewed letters which nearly drove him mad. Messrs. Soames & Simpson's client was
willing to accept four hundred pounds as the amount of the dower without reference to the house,
and to this Mr. Prosper yielded. He did not much care about any heir as yet unborn, and felt
by no means so certain in regard to children as did the lady. But he fought hard about the
ponies. He could not undertake that his wife should have ponies. That must be left to him as
master of the house. He thought that a pair of carriage-horses for her use would be sufficient.
He had always kept a carriage, and intended to do so. She might bring her ponies if she pleased,
but if he thought well to part with them he would sell them. He found himself getting deeper
and deeper into the quagmire, till he began to doubt whether he should be able to extricate
himself unmarried if he were anxious to do so. And all the while there came affectionate little
notes from Miss Thoroughbung asking after his health, and recommending him what to take, till
he entertained serious thoughts of going to Cairo for the winter.

Then Mr. Barry came down to see him after Mountjoy had made his visit. It was now January,
and the bargaining about the marriage had gone on for more than two months. The letter which
he had received from the Squire of Tretton had moved him; but he had told himself that the
property was his own, and that he had a right to enjoy it as he liked best.

Whatever might have been Harry's faults in regard to that midnight affair, it had certainly
been true that he had declined to hear the sermons. Mr. Prosper did not exactly mention the
sermons to himself, but there was present to him a feeling that his heir had been wilfully
disobedient, and the sermons no doubt had been the cause. When he had read the old squire's
letter he did not as yet wish to forgive his nephew. He was becoming very tired of his courtship,
but in his estimation the wife would be better than the nephew. Though he had been much put
out by the precocity of that embrace, there was nevertheless a sweetness about it which lingered
on his lips. Then Mountjoy had come down, and he had answered Mountjoy very stoutly: "A lie!"
he had exclaimed. "Did he tell a lie?" he had asked, as though all must be over with a young
man who had once allowed himself to depart from the rigid truth. Mountjoy had made what excuse
he could, but Mr. Prosper had been very stern.

On the very day after Mountjoy's coming Mr. Barry came. His visit had been arranged, and Mr.
Prosper was, with great care, prepared to encounter him. He was wrapped in his best dressing-gown,
and Matthew had shaved him with the greatest care. The girls over at the parsonage declared
that their uncle had sent into Buntingford for a special pot of pomatum. The story was told
to Joe Thoroughbung in order that it might be passed on to his aunt, and no doubt it did travel
as it was intended. But Miss Thoroughbung cared nothing for the pomatum with which the lawyer
from London was to be received. It would be very hard to laugh her out of her lover while the
title-deeds to Buston held good. But Mr. Prosper had felt that it would be necessary to look
his best, so that his marriage might be justified in the eyes of the lawyer.

Mr. Barry was shown into the book-room at Buston, in which Mr. Prosper was seated ready to
receive him. The two gentlemen had never before met each other, and Mr. Prosper did no doubt
assume something of the manner of an aristocratic owner of land. He would not have done so
had Mr. Grey come in his partner's place. But there was a humility about Mr. Barry on an occasion
such as the present, which justified a little pride on the part of the client. "I am sorry
to give you the trouble to come down, Mr. Barry," he said. "I hope the servant has shown you
your room."

"I shall be back in London to-day, Mr. Prosper, thank you. I must see these lawyers here, and
when I have received your final instructions I will return to Buntingford." Then Mr. Prosper
pressed him much to stay. He had quite expected, he said, that Mr. Barry would have done him
the pleasure of remaining at any rate one night at Buston. But Mr. Barry settled the question
by saying that he had not brought a dress-coat. Mr. Prosper did not care to sit down to dinner
with guests who did not bring their dress-coats. "And now," continued Mr. Barry, "what final
instructions are we to give to Soames & Simpson?"

"I don't think much of Messrs. Soames & Simpson."

"I believe they have the name of being honest practitioners."

"I dare say; I do not in the least doubt it. But they are people to whom I am not at all desirous
of intrusting my own private affairs. Messrs. Soames & Simpson have not, I think, a large county
business. I had no idea that Miss Thoroughbung would have put this affair into their hands."

"Just so, Mr. Prosper. But I suppose it was necessary for her to employ somebody. There has
been a good deal of correspondence."

"Indeed there has, Mr. Barry."

"It has not been our fault, Mr. Prosper. Now what we have got to decide is this: What are the
final terms which you mean to propose? I think, sir, the time has come when some final terms
should be suggested."

"Just so. Final terms--must be what you call--the very last. That is, when they have once been
offered, you must--must--"

"Just stick to them, Mr. Prosper."

"Exactly, Mr. Barry. That is what I intend. There is nothing I dislike so much as this haggling
about money, especially with a lady. Miss Thoroughbung is a lady for whom I have the highest
possible esteem."

"That's of course."

"For whom, I repeat, I have the highest possible esteem. But she has friends who have their
own ideas as to money. The brewery in Buntingford belongs to them, and they are very worthy
people. I should explain to you, Mr. Barry, as you are my confidential adviser, that were I
about to form a matrimonial alliance in the heyday of my youth, I should probably not have
thought of connecting myself with the Thoroughbungs. As I have said before, they are most respectable
people; but they do not exactly belong to that class in which I should, under those circumstances,
have looked for a wife. I might probably have ventured to ask for the hand of the daughter
of some county family. But years have slipped by me, and now wishing in middle life to procure
for myself the comfort of wedded happiness, I have looked about, and have found no one more
likely to give it me, than Miss Thoroughbung. Her temper is excellent, and her person pleasing."
Mr. Prosper, as he said this, thought of the kiss which had been bestowed upon him. "Her wit
is vivacious, and I think that upon the whole she will be desirable as a companion. She will
not come to this house empty-handed; but of her pecuniary affairs you already know so much
that I need, perhaps, tell you nothing farther. But though I am exceedingly desirous to make
this lady my wife, and am, I may say, warmly attached to her, there are certain points which
I cannot sacrifice. Now about the ponies--"

"I think I understand about the ponies. She may bring them on trial."

"I'm not to be bound to keep any ponies at all. There are a pair of carriage-horses which must
suffice. On second thoughts, she had better not bring the ponies." This decision had at last
come from some little doubt on his mind as to whether he was treating Harry justly.

"And four hundred pounds is the sum fixed on for her jointure."

"She is to have her own money for her own life," said Mr. Prosper.

"That's a matter of course."

"Don't you think that, under these circumstances, four hundred will be quite enough?"

"Quite enough, if you ask me. But we must decide."

"Four hundred it shall be."

"And she is to have two-thirds of her own money for her own expenses during your life?" asked
Mr. Barry.

"I don't see why she should want six hundred a year for herself; I don't indeed. I am afraid
it will only lead to extravagance!" Barry assumed a look of despair. "Of course, as I have
said so, I will not go back from my word. She shall have two-thirds. But about the ponies my
mind is quite made up. There shall be no ponies at Buston. I hope you understand that, Mr.
Barry?" Mr. Barry said that he did understand it well, and then, folding up his papers, prepared
to go, congratulating himself that he would not have to pass a long evening at Buston Hall.

But before he went, and when he had already put on his great-coat in the hall, Mr. Prosper
called him back to ask him one farther question; and for that purpose he shut the door carefully,
and uttered his words in a whisper. Did Mr. Barry know anything of the life and recent adventures
of Mr. Henry Annesley? Mr. Barry knew nothing; but he thought that his partner, Mr. Grey, knew
something. He had heard Mr. Grey mention the name of Mr. Henry Annesley. Then as he stood there,
enveloped in his great-coat, with his horse standing in the cold, Mr. Prosper told him much
of the story of Harry Annesley, and asked him to induce Mr, Grey to write and tell him what
he thought of Harry's conduct.

CHAPTER XLIV.

MR. PROSPER'S TROUBLES.

As Mr. Prosper sunk into his arm-chair after the fatigue of the interview with his lawyer,
he reflected that, when all was considered, Harry Annesley was an ungrateful pig,--it was thus
he called him,--and that Miss Thoroughbung had many attractions. Miss Thoroughbung had probably
done well to kiss him, though the enterprise had not been without its peculiar dangers. He
often thought of it when alone, and, as "distance lent enchantment to the view," he longed
to have the experiment repeated. Perhaps she had been right. And it would be a good thing,
certainly, to have dear little children of his own. Miss Thoroughbung felt very certain on
the subject, and it would be foolish for him to doubt. Then he thought of the difference between
a pretty fair haired little boy and that ungrateful pig, Harry Annesley. He told himself that
he was very fond of children. The girls over at the parsonage would not have said so, but they
probably did not know his character.

When Harry had come back with his fellowship, his uncle had for a few weeks been very proud
of him,--had declared that he should never be called upon to earn his bread, and had allowed
him two hundred and fifty pounds a year to begin with: but no return had been made to this
favor. Harry had walked in and out of the Hall as though it had already belonged to him,--as
many a father delights to see his eldest son doing. But the uncle in this instance had not
taken any delight in seeing it. An uncle is different from a father,--an uncle who has never
had a child of his own. He wanted deference,--what he would have called respect; while Harry
was at first prepared to give him a familiar affection based on equality,--on an equality in
money matters and worldly interests,--though I fear that Harry allowed to be seen his own intellectual
superiority. Mr. Prosper, though an ignorant man, and by no means clever, was not such a fool
as not to see all this. Then had come the persistent refusal to hear the sermons, and Mr. Prosper
had sorrowfully declared to himself that his heir was not the young man that he should have been.

He did not then think of marrying, nor did he stop the allowance; but he did feel that his
heir was not what he should have been. But then the terrible disgrace of that night in London
had occurred, and his eyes had been altogether opened by that excellent young man, Mr. Augustus
Scarborough; then he began to look about him. Then dim ideas of the charms and immediate wealth
of Miss Thoroughbung flitted before his eyes, and he told himself again and again of the prospects
and undoubted good birth of Miss Puffle. Miss Puffle had disgraced herself, and therefore he
had thrown Buston Hall at the feet of Miss Thoroughbung.

But now he had heard stories about that "excellent young man, Augustus Scarborough," which
had shaken his faith. He had been able to exclaim indignantly that Harry Annesley had told
a lie. "A lie!" He had been surprised to find that a young man who had lived so much in the
fashionable world as Captain Scarborough had cared nothing for this. And as Miss Thoroughbung
became more and more exacting in regard to money, he thought, himself, less and less of the
lie. It might be well that Harry should ultimately have the property, though he should never
again be taken into favor, and there should be no farther question of the allowance. As Miss
Thoroughbung reiterated her demands for the ponies, he began to feel that the acres of Buston
would not be disgraced forever by the telling of that lie. But the sermons remained, and he
would never willingly again see his nephew. As he turned all this in his mind, the idea of
spending what was left of the winter at Cairo returned to him. He would go to Cairo for the
winter, and to the Italian lakes for the spring, and to Switzerland for the summer. Then he
might return to Cairo. At the present moment Buston Hall and the neighborhood of Buntingford
had few charms for him. He was afraid that Miss Thoroughbung would not give way about the ponies;
and against the ponies he was resolved.

He was sitting in this state with a map before him, and with the squire's letter upon the map,
when Matthew, the butler, opened the door and announced a visitor. As soon as Mr. Barry had
gone, he had supported nature by a mutton-chop and a glass of sherry, and the debris were now
lying on the side-table. His first idea was to bid Matthew at once remove the glass and the
bone, and the unfinished potato and the crust of bread. To be taken with such remnants by any
visitor would be bad, but by this visitor would be dreadful. Lunch should be eaten in the dining-room,
where chop bones and dirty glasses would be in their place. But here in his book-room they
would be disgraceful. But then, as Matthew was hurriedly collecting the two plates and the
salt-cellar, his master began to doubt whether this visitor should be received at all. It was
no other than Miss Thoroughbung.

Mr. Prosper, in order to excuse his slackness in calling on the lady, had let it be known that
he was not quite well, and Miss Thoroughbung had responded to this move by offering her services
as nurse to her lover. He had then written to herself that, though he had been a little unwell,
"suffering from a cold in the chest, to which at this inclement season of the year it was peculiarly
liable," he was not in need of anything beyond a little personal attention, and would not trouble
her for those services, for the offer of which he was bound to be peculiarly grateful. Thus
he had thought to keep Miss Thoroughbung at a distance; but here she was with those hated ponies
at his very door. "Matthew," he said, making a confidant, in the distress of the moment of
his butler, "I don't think I can see her."

"You must, sir; indeed you must."

"Must!"

"Well, yes; I'm afraid so. Considering all things,--the matrimonial prospects and the rest
of it,--I think you must, sir."

"She hasn't a right to come here, you know,--as yet." It will be understood that Mr. Prosper
was considerably discomposed when he spoke with such familiar confidence to his servant. "She
needn't come in here, at any rate."

"In the drawing-room, if I might be allowed to suggest, sir."

"Show Miss Thoroughbung into the drawing-room," said he with all his dignity. Then Matthew
retired, and the Squire of Buston felt that five minutes might be allowed to collect himself,
and the mutton-chop bone need not be removed.

When the five minutes were over, with slow steps he walked across the intervening billiard-room,
and slowly opened the drawing-room door. Would she rush into his arms, and kiss him again as
he entered? He sincerely hoped that there would be no such attempt; but if there were, he was
sternly resolved to repudiate it. There should be nothing of the kind till she had clearly
declared, and had put it under writing by herself and her lawyers, that she would consent to
come to Buston without the ponies. But there was no such attempt. "How do you do, Mr. Prosper?"
she said, in a loud voice, standing up in the middle of the room. "Why don't you ever come
and see me? I take it very ill of you; and so does Miss Tickle. There is no one more partial
to you than Miss Tickle. We were talking of you only last night over a despatched crab that
we had for supper." Did they have despatched crabs for supper every night? thought Mr. Prosper
to himself. It was certainly a strong reason against his marriage. "I told her that you had
a cold in your head."

"In my chest," said Mr. Prosper, meekly.

"'Bother colds!' said Miss Tickle. 'When people are keeping company together they ought to
see each other.' Those were Miss Tickle's very words."

That it should be said of him, Mr. Prosper, of Buston, that he was "keeping company" with any
woman! He almost resolved, on the spur of the moment, that under no circumstances could he
now marry Miss Thoroughbung. But unfortunately his offer had been made, and the terms of the
settlement, as suggested by himself, placed in the hands of his lawyer. If Miss Thoroughbung
chose to hold him to his offer, he must marry her. It was not that he feared an action for
breach of promise, but that, as a gentleman, it would behoove him to be true to his word. He
need not, however, marry Miss Tickle. He had offered no terms in respect to Miss Tickle. With
great presence of mind he resolved at once that Miss Tickle should never find a permanent resting-place
for her foot at Buston Hall. "I am extremely indebted to Miss Tickle," said he.

"Why haven't you come over just to have a little chat in a friendly way? It's all because of
those stupid lawyers, I suppose. What need you and I care for the lawyers? They can do their
work without troubling us, except that they will be sure to send in their bills fast enough."

"I have had Mr. Barry, from the firm of Messrs. Grey & Barry, of Lincoln's Inn, with me this
morning."

"I know you have. I saw the little man at Soames & Simpson's, and drove out here immediately,
after five minutes' conversation. Now, Mr. Prosper, you must let me have those ponies."

That was the very thing which he was determined not to do. The ponies grew in imagination,
and became enormous horses capable of consuming any amount of oats. Mr. Prosper was not of
a stingy nature, but he had already perceived that his escape, if it were effected, must be
made good by means of those ponies. A steady old pair of carriage-horses had been kept by him,
and by his father before him, and he was not going to be driven out of the old family ways
by a brewer's daughter. And he had, but that morning, instructed his lawyer to stand out against
the ponies. He felt that this was the moment for firmness. Now, this instant, he must be staunch,
or he would be saddled with this woman,--and with Miss Tickle,--for the whole of his life.
She had left him no time for consideration, but had come upon him as soon almost as the words
spoken to the lawyer had been out of his mouth. But he would be firm. Miss Thoroughbung opened
out instantly about the ponies, and he at once resolved that he would be firm. But was it not
very indelicate on her part to come to him and to press him in this manner? He began to hope
that she also would be firm about the ponies, and that in this way the separation might be
effected. At the present moment he stood dumb. Silence would not in this case be considered
as giving consent. "Now, like a good man, do say that I shall have the ponies," she continued.
"I can keep 'em out of my own money, you know, if that's all." He perceived at once that the
offer amounted to a certain yielding on her part, but he was no longer anxious that she should
give way. "Do'ee now say yes, like a dear old boy." She came closer to him, and took hold of
his arm, as though she were going to perform that other ceremony. But he was fully aware of
the danger. If there came to be kissing between them it would be impossible for him to go back
afterward in such a manner but that the blame of the kiss should rest with him. When he should
desire to be "off," he could not plead that the kissing had been all her doing. A man in Mr.
Prosper's position has difficulties among which he must be very wary. And then the ridicule
of the world is so strong a weapon, and is always used on the side of the women! He gave a
little start, but he did not at once shake her off. "What's the objection to the ponies, dear?"

"Two pair of horses! It's more than we ought to keep." He should not have said "we." He felt,
when it was too late, that he should not have said "we."

"They aren't horses."

"It's the same, as far as the stables are concerned."

"But there's room enough, Lord bless you! I've been in to look. I can assure you that Dr. Stubbs
says they are required for my health. You ask him else. It's just what I'm up to--is driving.
I've only taken to them lately, and I cannot bring myself to give 'em up. Do'ee love. You're
not going to throw over your own Matilda for a couple of little beasts like that!"

Every word that came out of her mouth was an offence. But he could not tell her so; nor could
he reject her on that score. He should have thought beforehand what kind of words might probably
come out of her mouth. Was her name Matilda? Of course he knew the fact. Had any one asked
him he could have said, with two minutes' consideration, that her name was Matilda. But it
had never become familiar to his ears, and now she spoke of it as though he had called her
Matilda since their earliest youth. And to be called "Love!" It might be very nice when he
had first called her "Love" a dozen times; but now it sounded extravagant--and almost indelicate.
And he was about to throw her over for a couple of little beasts. He felt that that was his
intention, and he blushed because it was so. He was a true gentleman, who would not willingly
depart from his word. If he must go on with the ponies he must. But he had never yet yielded
about the ponies. He felt now that they were his only hope. But as the difficulties of his
position pressed upon him the sweat stood out upon his brow. She saw it all and understood
it all, and deliberately determined to take advantage of his weakness. "I don't think that
there is anything else astray between us. We've settled about the jointure,--four hundred a
year. It's too little, Soames & Simpson say; but I'm soft, and in love, you know." Here she
leered at him, and he began to hate her. "You oughtn't to want a third of my income, you know.
But you're to be lord and master, and you must have your own way. All that's settled."

"There is Miss Tickle," he said, in a voice that was almost cadaverous.

"Miss Tickle is of course to come. You said that from the very first moment when you made the
offer."

"Never!"

"Oh, Peter, how can you say so!" He shrunk visibly from the sound of his own Christian name.
But she determined to persevere. The time must come when she should call him Peter, and why
not commence the practice now, at once? Lovers always do call each other Peter and Matilda.
She wasn't going to stand any nonsense, and if he intended to marry her and use a large proportion
of her fortune, Peter he should be to her. "You did, Peter. You know you told me how much attached
you were to her."

"I didn't say anything about her coming with you."

"Oh, Peter, how can you be so cruel? Do you mean to say that you will deprive me of the friend
of my youth?"

"At any rate, there shall never be a pony come into my yard!" He knew when he made this assertion
that he was abandoning his objection to Miss Tickle. She had called him cruel, and his conscience
told him that if he received Miss Thoroughbung and refused admission to Miss Tickle he would
be cruel. Miss Tickle, for aught that he knew, might have been a friend of her youth. At any
rate, they had been constant companions for many years. Therefore, as he had another solid
ground on which to stand, he could afford to yield as to Miss Tickle. But as he did so, he
remembered that Miss Tickle had accused him of "keeping company," and he declared to himself
that it would be impossible to live in the same house with her.

"But Miss Tickle may come?" said Miss Thoroughbung. Was the solid ground--the rock, as he believed
it to be, of the ponies, about to sink beneath his feet? "Say that Miss Tickle may come. I
should be nothing without Miss Tickle. You cannot be so hard-hearted as that."

"I don't see what is the good of talking about Miss Tickle till we have come to some settlement
about the ponies. You say that you must have the ponies. To tell you the truth, Miss Thoroughbung,
I don't like any such word as 'must.' And a good many things have occurred to me."

"What kind of things, deary?"

"I think you are inclined to be--gay--"

"Me! gay!"

"While I am sober, and perhaps a little grave in my manners of life. I am thinking only of
domestic happiness, while your mind is intent upon social circles. I fear that you would look
for your bliss abroad."

"In France or Germany?"

"When I say abroad, I mean out of your own house. There is perhaps some discrepancy of taste
of which I ought earlier to have taken cognizance."

"Nothing of the kind," said Miss Thoroughbung. "I am quite content to live at home and do not
want to go abroad, either to France nor yet to any other English county. I should never ask
for anything, unless it be for a single month in London."

Here was a ground upon which he perhaps could make his stand. "Quite impossible!" said Mr. Prosper.

"Or for a fortnight," said Miss Thoroughbung.

"I never go up to London except on business."

"But I might go alone, you know--with Miss Tickle. I shouldn't want to drag you away. I have
always been in the habit of having a few weeks in London about the Exhibition time."

"I shouldn't wish to be left by my wife."

"Of course we could manage all that. We're not to settle every little thing beforehand, and
put it into the deeds. A precious sum we should have to pay the lawyers!"

"It's as well we should understand each other."

"I think it pretty nearly is all settled that has to go into the deeds. I thought I'd just
run over, after seeing Mr. Barry, and give the final touch. If you'll give way, dear, about
Miss Tickle and the ponies, I'll yield in everything else. Nothing, surely, can be fairer than
that."

He knew that he was playing the hypocrite, and he knew also that it did not become him as a
gentleman to be false to a woman. He was aware that from minute to minute, and almost from
word to word, he was becoming ever more and more averse to this match which he had proposed
to himself. And he knew that in honesty he ought to tell her that it was so. It was not honest
in him to endeavor to get rid of her by a side-blow, as it were. And yet this was the attempt
which he had hitherto been making. But how was he to tell her the truth? Even Mr. Barry had
not understood the state of his mind. Indeed, his mind had altered since he had seen Mr. Barry.

He had heard within the last half hour many words spoken by Miss Thoroughbung which proved
that she was altogether unfit to be his wife. It was a dreadful misfortune that he should have
rushed into such peril; but was he not bound as a gentleman to tell her the truth? "Say that
I shall have Jemima Tickle!" The added horrors of the Christian name operated upon him with
additional force. Was he to be doomed to have the word Jemima hallooed about his rooms and
staircases for the rest of his life? And she had given up the ponies, and was taking her stand
upon Miss Tickle, as to whom at last he would be bound to give way. He could see now that he
should have demanded her whole income, and have allowed her little or no jointure. That would
have been grasping, monstrous, altogether impracticable, but it would not have been ungentleman-like.
This chaffering about little things was altogether at variance with his tastes,--and it would
be futile. He must summon courage to tell her that he no longer wished for the match; but he
could not do it on this morning. Then,--for that morning,--some benign god preserved him.

Matthew came into the room and whispered into his ear that a gentleman wished to see him. "What
gentleman?" Matthew again whispered that it was his brother-in-law. "Show him in," said Mr.
Prosper, with a sudden courage. He had not seen Mr. Annesley since the day of his actual quarrel
with Harry. "I shall have the ponies?" said Miss Thoroughbung during the moment that was allowed
to her.

"We are interrupted now. I am afraid that the rest of this interview must be postponed." It
should never be renewed, though he might have to leave the country forever. Of that he gave
himself assurance. Then the parson was shown into the room.

The constrained introduction was very painful to Mr. Prosper, but was not at all disagreeable
to the lady. "Mr. Annesley knows me very well. We are quite old friends. Joe is going to marry
his eldest girl. I hope Molly is quite well." The rector said that Molly was quite well. When
he had come away from home just now he had left Joe at the parsonage. "You'll find him there
a deal oftener than at the brewery," said Miss Thoroughbung. "You know what we're going to
do, Mr. Annesley. There are no fools like old fools." A thunder-black cloud came across Mr.
Prosper's face. That this woman should dare to call him an old fool! "We were discussing a
few of our future arrangements. We've arranged everything about money in the most amicable
manner, and now there is merely a question of a pair of ponies."

"We need not trouble Mr. Annesley about that, I think."

"And Miss Tickle! I'm sure the rector will agree with me that old friends like me and Miss
Tickle ought not to be separated. And it isn't as though there was any dislike between them,
because he has already said that he finds Miss Tickle charming."

"D---- Miss Tickle!" he said; whereupon the rector looked astonished, and Miss Thoroughbung
jumped a foot from off the ground. "I beg the lady's pardon," said Mr. Prosper, piteously,
"and yours, Miss Thoroughbung,--and yours, Mr. Annesley." It was as though a new revelation
of character had been given. No one except Matthew had ever heard the Squire of Buston swear.
And with Matthew the cursings had been by no means frequent, and had been addressed generally
to some article of his clothing, or to some morsel of food prepared with less than the usual
care. But now the oath had been directed against a female, and the chosen friend of his betrothed.
And it had been uttered in the presence of a clergyman, his brother-in-law, and the rector
of his parish. Mr. Prosper felt that he was disgraced forever. Could he have overheard them
laughing over his ebullition in the drawing-room half an hour afterward, and almost praising
his violence, some part of the pain might have been removed. As it was he felt at the time
that he was disgraced forever.

"We will return to the subject when next we meet," said Miss Thoroughbung.

"I am very sorry that I should so far have forgotten myself," said Mr. Prosper, "but--"

"It does not signify,--not as far as I am concerned;" and she made a little motion to the clergyman,
half bow and half courtesy. Mr. Annesley bowed in return, as though declaring that neither
did it signify very much as far as he was concerned. Then she left the room, and Matthew handed
her into the carriage, when she took the ponies in hand with quite as much composure as though
her friend had not been sworn at.

"Upon my word, sir," said Prosper, as soon as the door was shut, "I beg your pardon. But I
was so moved by certain things which have occurred that I was carried much beyond my usual habits."

"Don't mention it."

"It is peculiarly distressing to me that I should have been induced to forget myself in the
presence of a clergyman of the parish and my brother-in-law. But I must beg you to forget it."

"Oh, certainly. I will tell you now why I have come over."

"I can assure you that such is not my habit," continued Mr. Prosper, who was thinking much
more of the unaccustomed oath which he had sworn than of his brother-in-law's visit, strange
as it was. "No one, as a rule, is more guarded in his expressions than I am. How it should
have come to pass that I was so stirred I can hardly tell. But Miss Thoroughbung had said certain
words which had moved me very much." She had called him "Peter" and "deary," and had spoken
of him as "keeping company" with her. All these disgusting terms of endearment he could not
repeat to his brother-in-law, but felt it necessary to allude to them.

"I trust that you may be happy with her when she is your wife."

"I can't say. I really don't know. It's a very important step to take at my age, and I'm not
quite sure that I should be doing wisely."

"It's not too late," said Mr. Annesley.

"I don't know. I can't quite say." Then Mr. Prosper drew himself up, remembering that it would
not become him to discuss the matter of his marriage with the father of his heir.

"I have come over here," said Mr. Annesley, "to say a few words about Harry." Mr. Prosper again
drew himself up. "Of course you're aware that Harry is at present living with us." Here Mr.
Prosper bowed. "Of course, in his altered circumstances, it will not do that he shall be idle,
and yet he does not like to take a final step without letting you know what it is." Here Mr.
Prosper bowed twice. "There is a gentleman of fortune going out to the United States on a mission
which will probably occupy him for three or four years. I am not exactly warranted in mentioning
his name, but he has taken in hand a political project of much importance." Again Mr. Prosper
bowed. "Now he has offered Harry the place of private secretary, on condition that Harry will
undertake to stay the entire term. He is to have a salary of three hundred a year, and his
travelling expenses will of course be paid for him. If he goes, poor boy! he will in all probability
remain in his new home and become a citizen of the United States. Under these circumstances
I have thought it best to step up and tell you in a friendly manner what his plans are." Then
he had told his tale, and Mr. Prosper again bowed.

The rector had been very crafty. There was no doubt about the wealthy gentleman with the American
project, and the salary had been offered. But in other respects there had been some exaggeration.
It was well known to the rector that Mr. Prosper regarded America and all her institutions
with a religious hatred. An American was to him an ignorant, impudent, foul-mouthed, fraudulent
creature, to have any acquaintance with whom was a disgrace. Could he have had his way, he
would have reconstituted the United States as British Colonies at a moment's notice. Were he
to die without having begotten another heir, Buston must become the property of Harry Annesley;
and it would be dreadful to him to think that Buston should be owned by an American citizen.
"The salary offered is too good to be abandoned," said Mr. Annesley, when he saw the effect
which his story had produced.

"Everything is going against me!" exclaimed Mr. Prosper.

"Well: I will not talk about that. I did not come here to discuss Harry or his sins,--nor,
for the matter of that, his virtues. But I felt it would be improper to let him go upon his
journey without communicating with you." So saying, he took his departure and walked back to
the rectory.

CHAPTER XLV.

A DETERMINED YOUNG LADY.

When this offer had been made to Harry Annesley he found it to be absolutely necessary that
he should write a farther letter to Florence. He was quite aware that he had been forbidden
to write. He had written one letter since that order had been given to him, and no reply had
come to him. He had not expected a reply; but still her silence had been grievous to him. It
might be that she was angry with him, really angry. But let that be as it might, he could not
go to America, and be absent for so long a period, without telling her. She and her mother
were still at Brussels when January came. Mrs. Mountjoy had gone there, as he had understood,
for a month, and was still at the embassy when three months had passed. "I think I shall stay
here the winter," Mrs. Mountjoy had said to Sir Magnus, "but we will take lodgings. I see that
very nice sets of apartments are to be let." But Sir Magnus would not hear of this. He said,
and said truly, that the ministerial house was large; and at last he declared the honest truth.
His sister-in-law had been very kind to him about money, and had said not a word on that troubled
subject since her arrival. Mrs. Mountjoy, with that delicacy which still belongs to some English
ladies, would have suffered extreme poverty rather than have spoken on such a matter. In truth
she suffered nothing, and hardly thought about it. But Sir Magnus was grateful, and told her
that if she went to look for lodgings he should go to the lodgings and say that they were not
wanted. Therefore Mrs. Mountjoy remained where she was, entertaining a feeling of increased
good-will toward Sir Magnus.

Life went on rather sadly with Florence. Anderson was as good as his word. He pleaded his own
cause no farther, telling both Sir Magnus and Lady Mountjoy of the pledge he had made. He did
in fact tell two or three other persons, regarding himself as a martyr to chivalry. All this
time he went about his business looking very wretched. But though he did not speak for himself,
he could not hinder others from speaking for him. Sir Magnus took occasion to say a word on
the subject once daily to his niece. Her mother was constant in her attacks. But Lady Mountjoy
was the severest of the three, and was accounted by Florence as her bitterest enemy. The words
which passed between them were not the most affectionate in the world. Lady Mountjoy would
call her 'miss,' to which Florence would reply by addressing her aunt as 'my lady.' "Why do
you call me 'my lady?' It isn't usual in common conversation." "Why do you call me 'miss?'
If you cease to call me 'miss,' I'll cease to call you 'my lady.'" But no reverence was paid
by the girl to the wife of the British Minister. It was this that Lady Mountjoy specially felt,--as
she complained to her companion, Miss Abbott. Then another cause for trouble sprang up during
the winter, of which mention must be made farther on. The result was that Florence was instant
with her mother to take her back to England.

We will return, however, to Harry Annesley, and give the letter, verbatim, which he wrote to
Florence:

"DEAR FLORENCE,--I wonder whether you ever think of me or ever remember that I exist? I know
you do. I cannot have been forgotten like that. And you yourself are the truest girl that ever
owned to loving a man. But there comes a chill across my heart when I think how long it is
since I wrote to you, and that I have not had a line even to acknowledge my letter. You bade
me not to write, and you have not even forgiven me for disobeying your order. I cannot but
get stupid ideas into my mind, which one word from you would dissipate.

"Now, however, I must write again, order or no order. Between a man and a woman circumstanced
as you and I, things will arise which make it incumbent on one or the other to write. It is
absolutely necessary that you should now know what are my intentions, and understand the reasons
which have actuated me. I have found myself left in a most unfortunate condition by my uncle's
folly. He is going on with a stupid marriage for the purpose of disinheriting me, and has in
the mean time stopped the allowance which he had made me since I left college. Of course I
have no absolute claim on him. But I cannot understand how he can reconcile himself to do so,
when he himself prevented my going to the Bar, saying that it would be unnecessary.

"But so it is, I am driven to look about for myself. It is very hard at my time of life to
find an opening in any profession. I think I told you before that I had ideas of going to Cambridge
and endeavoring to get pupils, trusting to my fellowship rather than to my acquirements. But
this I have always looked upon with great dislike, and would only have taken to it if nothing
else was to be had. Now there has come forward an old college acquaintance, a man who is three
or four years my senior, who has offered to take me to America as his private secretary. He
proposes to remain there for three years. I of course shall not bind myself to stay as long;
but I may not improbably do so. He is to pay my expenses and to give me a salary of three hundred
a year. This will, perhaps, lead to nothing else, but will for the present be better than nothing.
I am to start in just a month from the present time.

"Now you know it all except that the man's name is Sir William Crook. He is a decent sort of
a fellow, and has got a wife who is to go with him. He is the hardest working man I know, but,
between you and me, will never set the Thames on fire. If the Thames is to be illumined at
all, I rather think that I shall be expected to do it.

"Now, my own one, what am I to say about you, and of myself, as your husband that is to be?
Will you wait, at any rate, for three years with the conviction that the three years will too
probably end in your having to wait again?

"I do feel that in my altered position I ought to give you back your troth, and tell you that
things shall be as they used to be before that happy night at Mrs. Armitage's party. I do not
know but that it is clearly my duty. I almost think that it is. But I am sure of this,--that
it is the one thing in the world that I cannot do. I don't think that a man ought to be asked
to tear himself altogether in pieces because some one has ill-treated him. At any rate I cannot.
If you say that it must be so, you shall say it. I don't suppose it will kill me, but it will
go a long way.

"In writing so far I have not said a word of love, because, as far as I understand you, that
is a subject on which you expect me to be silent. When you order me not to write, I suppose
you intend that I am to write no love-letters. This, therefore, you will take simply as a matter
of business, and as such, I suppose, you will acknowledge it. In this way I shall at any rate
see your handwriting.

"Yours affectionately,

"HARRY ANNESLEY."

Harry, when he had written this letter, considered that it had been cold, calm, and philosophical.
He could not go to America for three years without telling her of his purpose; nor could he
mention that purpose, as he thought, in any language less glowing. But Florence, when she received
it, did not regard it in the same light.

To her thinking the letter was full of love, and of love expressed in the warmest possible
language. "Sir William Crook!" she said to herself. "What can he want of Harry in America for
three years? I am sure he is a stupid man. Will I wait? Of course I will wait. What are three
years? And why should I not wait? But, for the matter of that--" Then thoughts came into her
mind which even to herself she could not express in words. Sir William Crook had got a wife,
and why should not Harry take a wife also? She did not see why a private secretary should not
be a married man; and as for money, there would be plenty for such a style of life as they
would live. She could not exactly propose this, but she thought that if she were to see Harry
just for one short interview before he started, that he might probably then propose it himself.

"Things be as they used to be!" she exclaimed to herself. "Never! Things cannot be as they
used to be. I know what is his duty. It is his duty not to think of anything of the kind. Remember
that he exists," she said, turning back to the earlier words of the letter. "That of course
is his joke. I wonder whether he knows that every moment of my life is devoted to him. Of course
I bade him not to write. But I can tell him now that I have never gone to bed without his letter
beneath my pillow." This and much more of the same kind was uttered in soliloquies, but need
not be repeated at length to the reader.

But she had to think what steps she must first take. She must tell her mother of Harry's intention.
She had never for an instant allowed her mother to think that her affection had dwindled, or
her purpose failed her. She was engaged to marry Harry Annesley, and marry him some day she
would. That her mother should be sure of that was the immediate purpose of her life. And in
carrying out that purpose she must acquaint her mother with the news which this letter had
brought to her. "Mamma, I have got something to tell you."

"Well, my dear?"

"Harry Annesley is going to America!" There was something pleasing to Mrs. Mountjoy in the
sound of these words. If Harry Annesley went to America he might be drowned, or it might more
probably be that he would never come back. America was, to her imagination, a long way off.
Lovers did not go to America except with the intention of deserting their ladyloves. Such were
her ideas. She felt at the moment that Florence would be more easily approached in reference
either to her cousin Mountjoy or to Mr. Anderson. Another lover had sprung up, too, in Brussels,
of whom a word shall be said by-and-by. If her Harry, the pernicious Harry, should have taken
himself to America, the chances of all these three gentlemen would be improved. Any one of
them would now be accepted by Mrs. Mountjoy as a bar fatal to Harry Annesley. Mountjoy was
again the favorite with her. She had heard that he had returned to Tretton, and was living
amicably with his father. She knew, even, of the income allotted to him for the present,--of
the six hundred pounds a year,--and had told Florence that as a preliminary income it was more
than double that two hundred and fifty pounds which had been taken away from Harry,--taken
away never to be restored. There was not much in this argument, but still she thought well
to use it. The captain was living with his father, and she did not believe a word about the
entail having been done away with. It was certain that Harry's uncle had quarrelled with him,
and she did understand that a baby at Buston would altogether rob Harry of his chance. And
then look at the difference in the properties! It was thus that she argued the matter. But
in truth her word had been pledged to Mountjoy Scarborough, and Mountjoy Scarborough had ever
been a favorite with her. Though she could talk about the money, it was not the money that
touched her feelings. "Well;--he may go to America. It is a dreadful destiny for a young man,
but in his case it may be the best thing that he can do."

"Of course he intends to come back again?"

"That is as it may be."

"I do not understand what you mean by a dreadful destiny, mamma. I don't see that it is a destiny
at all. He is getting a very good offer for a year or two, and thinks it best to take it. I
might go with him, for that matter."

A thunder-bolt had fallen at Mrs. Mountjoy's feet! Florence go with him to America! Among all
the trials which had come upon her with reference to this young man there had been nothing
so bad as this proposal. Go with him! The young man was to start in a month! Then she began
to think whether it would be within her power to stop her daughter. What would all the world
be to her with one daughter, and she in America, married to Harry Annesley? Her quarrel with
Florence was not at all as was the quarrel of Lady Mountjoy. Lady Mountjoy would be glad to
get rid of the girl, whom she thought to be impertinent and believed to be false. But to her
mother Florence was the very apple of her eye. It was because she thought that Mountjoy Scarborough
was a grand fellow, and because she thought all manner of evil of Harry Annesley, that she
wished Florence to marry her cousin, and to separate herself forever from the other. When she
had heard that Harry was to go to America she had rejoiced, as though he was to be transported
to Botany Bay. Her ideas were old-fashioned. But when it was hinted that Florence was to go
with him she nearly fell to the ground.

Florence certainly had behaved badly in making the suggestion. She had not intended to make
it,--had not, in truth, thought of it. But when her mother talked of Harry's destiny, as though
some terrible evil had come upon him,--as though she were speaking of a poor wretch condemned
to be hanged, when all chances of a reprieve were over,--then her spirit rose within her. She
had not meant to say that she was going. Harry had never asked her to go. "If you talk of his
destiny I am quite prepared to share it with him." That was her meaning. But her mother already
saw her only child in the hands of those American savages. She threw herself on to a sofa,
buried her face in her hands, and burst into tears.

"I don't say that I am going, mamma."

"My darling--my dearest--my child!"

"Only that there is no reason why I shouldn't, except that it would not suit him. At least
I suppose it would not."

"Has he said so?"

"He has said nothing about it."

"Thank Heaven for that! He does not intend to rob me of my child."

"But, mamma, I am to be his wife."

"No, no, no!"

"It is that that I want to make you understand. You know nothing of his character;--nothing."

"I do know that he told a base falsehood."

"Nothing of the kind! I will not admit it. It is of no use going into that again, but there
was nothing base about it. He has got an appointment in the United States, and is going out
to do the work. He has not asked me to go with him. The two things would probably not be compatible."
Here Mrs. Mountjoy rose from the sofa and embraced her child, as though liberated from her
deepest grief. "But, mamma, you must remember this:--that I have given him my word, and will
never be induced to abandon it." Here her mother threw up her hands and again began to weep.
"Either to-day or to-morrow, or ten years hence,--if he will wait as long, I will,--we shall
be married. As far as I can see we need not wait ten years, or perhaps more than one or two.
My money will suffice for us."

"He proposes to live upon you?"

"He proposes nothing of the kind. He is going to America because he will not propose it. Nor
am I proposing it,--just at present."

"At any rate I am glad of that."

"And now, mamma, you must take me back home as soon as possible."

"When he has started."

"No, mamma. I must be there before he starts. I cannot let him go without seeing him. If I
am to remain here, here he must come."

"Your uncle would never receive him."

"I should receive him."

This was dreadful--this flying into actual disobedience. Whatever did she mean? Where was she
to receive him? "How could you receive a young man in opposition to the wishes, and indeed
to the commands, of all your friends?"

"I'm not going to be at all shamefaced about it, mamma. I am the woman he has selected to be
his wife, and he is the man I have selected to be my husband. If he were coming I should go
to my uncle and ask to have him received."

"Think of your aunt."

"Yes; I do think of her. My aunt would make herself very disagreeable. Upon the whole, mamma,
I think it would be best that you should take me back to England. There is this M. Grascour
here, who is a great trouble, and you may be sure of this, that I intend to see Harry Annesley
before he starts for America."

So the interview was ended; but Mrs. Mountjoy was left greatly in doubt as to what she might
best do. She felt sure that were Annesley to come to Brussels, Florence would see him,--would
see him in spite of all that her uncle and aunt, and Mr. Anderson, and M. Grascour could do
to prevent it. That reprobate young man would force his way into the embassy, or Florence would
force her way out. In either case there would be a terrible scene. But if she were to take
Florence back to Cheltenham, interviews to any extent would be arranged for her at the house
of Mrs. Armitage. As she thought of all this, the idea came across her that when a young girl
is determined to be married nothing can prevent it.

Florence in the mean time wrote an immediate answer to her lover, as follows:

"DEAR HARRY,--Of course you were entitled to write when there was something to be said which
it was necessary that I should know. When you have simply to say that you love me, I know that
well enough without any farther telling.

"Go to America for three years! It is very, very serious. But of course you must know best,
and I shall not attempt to interfere. What are three years to you and me? If we were rich people,
of course we should not wait; but as we are poor, of course we must act as do other people
who are poor. I have about four hundred a year; and it is for you to say how far that may be
sufficient. If you think so, you will not find that I shall want more.

"But there is one thing necessary before you start. I must see you. There is no reason on earth
for our remaining here, except that mamma has not made up her mind. If she will consent to
go back before you start, it will be best so. Otherwise, you must take the trouble to come
here,--where, I am afraid, you will not be received as a welcome guest. I have told mamma that
if I cannot see you here in a manner that is becoming, I shall go out and meet you in the streets,
in a manner that is unbecoming.

"Your affectionate--wife that is to be,

"FLORENCE MOUNTJOY."

This letter she took to her mother, and read aloud to her in her own room. Mrs. Mountjoy could
only implore that it might not be sent, but prevailed not at all. "There is not a word in it
about love," said Florence. "It is simply a matter of business, and as such I must send it.
I do not suppose my uncle will go to the length of attempting to lock me up. He would, I think,
find it difficult to do so." There was a look in Florence's face as she said this which altogether
silenced her mother. She did not think that Sir Magnus would consent to lock Florence up, and
she did think that were he to attempt to do so he would find the task very difficult.

CHAPTER XLVI.

M. GRASCOUR.

M. Grascour was a Belgian, about forty years old, who looked as though he were no more than
thirty, except that his hair was in patches beginning to be a little gray. He was in the government
service of his country, well educated, and thoroughly a gentleman. As is the case with many
Belgians, he would have been taken to be an Englishman were his country not known. He had dressed
himself in English mirrors, living mostly with the English. He spoke English so well that he
would only be known to be a foreigner by the correctness of his language. He was a man of singularly
good temper, and there was running through all that he did somewhat of a chivalric spirit,
which came from study rather than nature. He had looked into things and seen whether they were
good, or at any rate popular, and endeavored to grasp and to make his own whatever he found
to be so. He was hitherto unmarried, and was regarded generally by his friends as a non-marrying
man. But Florence Mountjoy was powerful over him, and he set to work to make her his wife.
He was intimate at the house of Sir Magnus, and saw, no doubt, that Anderson was doing the
same thing. But he saw also that Anderson did not succeed. He had told himself from the first
that if Anderson did succeed he would not wish to do so. The girl who would be satisfied with
Anderson would hardly content him. He remained therefore quiet till he saw that Anderson had
failed. The young man at once took to an altered mode of life which was sufficiently marked.
He went, like Sir Proteus, ungartered. Everything about him had of late "demonstrated a careless
desolation." All this M. Grascour observed, and when he saw it he felt that his own time had come.

He took occasion at first to wait upon Lady Mountjoy. He believed that to be the proper way
of going to work. He was very intimate with the Mountjoys, and was aware that his circumstances
were known to them. There was no reason, on the score of money, why he should not marry the
niece of Sir Magnus. He had already shown some attention to Florence, which, though it had
excited no suspicion in her mind, had been seen and understood by her aunt; and it had been
understood also by Mr. Anderson. "That accursed Belgian! If, after all, she should take up
with him! I shall tell her a bit of my mind if anything of that kind should occur."

"My niece, M. Grascour!"

"Yes, my lady." M. Grascour had not quite got over the way of calling Lady Mountjoy "my lady."
"It is presumption, I know."

"Not at all."

"I have not spoken to her. Nor would I do so till I had first addressed myself to you or to
her mother. May I speak to Mrs. Mountjoy?"

"Oh, certainly. I do not in the least know what the young lady's ideas are. She has been much
admired here and elsewhere, and that may have turned her head."

"I think not."

"You may be the better judge, M. Grascour."

"I think that Miss Mountjoy's head has not been turned by any admiration. She does not appear
to be a young lady whose head would easily be turned. It is her heart of which I am thinking."
The interview ended by Lady Mountjoy passing the Belgian lover on to Mrs. Mountjoy.

"Florence!" said Mrs. Mountjoy.

"Yes, Mrs. Mountjoy;--I have the great honor of asking your permission. I am well known to
Sir Magnus and Lady Mountjoy, and they can tell what are my circumstances. I am forty years
of age."

"Oh yes; everything is, I am sure, quite as it should be. But my daughter thinks about these
things for herself." Then there was a pause, and M. Grascour was about to leave the room, having
obtained the permission he desired, when Mrs. Mountjoy thought it well to acquaint him with
something of her daughter's condition. "I ought to tell you that my daughter has been engaged."

"Indeed!"

"Yes; and I hardly know how to explain the circumstances. I should say that she had been promised
to her cousin, Captain Scarborough; but to this she will not give her assent. She has since
met a gentleman, Mr. Annesley, for whom she professes an attachment. Neither can I, nor can
her uncle and aunt, hear of Mr. Annesley as a husband for Florence. She is therefore at present
disengaged. If you can gain her affections, you have my leave." With this permission M. Grascour
departed, professing himself to be contented.

He did not see Florence for two or three days, no doubt leaving the matter to be discussed
with her by her mother and her aunt. To him it was quite indifferent what might be the fate
of Captain Scarborough, or of Mr. Annesley, or indeed of Mr. Anderson. And, to tell the truth,
he was not under any violent fear or hope as to his own fate. He admired Miss Mountjoy, and
thought it would be well to secure for a wife such a girl, with such a fortune as would belong
to her. But he did not intend to go "ungartered," nor yet to assume an air of "desolation."
If she would come to him, it would be well; if she would not, why, it would still be well.
The only outward difference made by his love was that he brushed his clothes and his hair a
little more carefully, and had his boots brought to a higher state of polish than was usual.

Her mother spoke to her first. "My dear, M. Grascour is a most excellent man."

"I am sure he is, mamma."

"And he is a great friend to your uncle and Lady Mountjoy."

"Why do you say this, mamma? What can it matter to me?"

"My dear, M. Grascour wishes you to--to--to become his wife."

"Oh, mamma, why didn't you tell him that it is impossible?"

"How was I to know, my dear?"

"Mamma, I am engaged to marry Harry Annesley, and no word shall ever turn me from that purpose,
unless it be spoken by himself. The crier may say that all round the town if he wishes. You
must know that it is so. What can be the use of sending M. Grascour or any other gentleman
to me? It is only giving me pain and him too. I wish, mamma, you could be got to understand
this." But Mrs. Mountjoy could not altogether be got as yet to understand the obstinacy of
her daughter's character.

There was one point on which Florence received information from these two suitors who had come
to her at Brussels. They were both favored, one after the other, by her mother; and would not
have been so favored had her mother absolutely believed in Captain Mountjoy. It seemed to her
as though her mother would be willing that she should marry any one, so long as it was not
Harry Annesley. "It is a pity that there should be such a difference," she said to herself.
"But we will see what firmness can do."

Then Lady Mountjoy spoke to her. "You have heard of M. Grascour, my dear?"

"Yes; I have heard of him, aunt."

"He intends to do you the honor of asking you to be his wife."

"So mamma tells me."

"I have only to say that he is a man most highly esteemed here. He is well known at the court,
and is at the royal parties. Should you become his wife, you would have all the society of
Brussels at your feet."

"All the society of Brussels would do no good."

"Perhaps not."

"Nor the court and the royal parties."

"If you choose to be impertinent when I tell you what are his advantages and condition in life,
I cannot help it."

"I do not mean to be impertinent."

"What you say about the royal parties and the court is intended for impertinence, knowing as
you do know your uncle's position."

"Not at all. You know my position. I am engaged to marry another man, and cannot therefore
marry M. Grascour. Why should he be sent to me, except that you won't believe me when I tell
you that I am engaged?" Then she marched out of the room, and considered within her own bosom
what answer she would give to this new Belgian suitor.

She was made perfectly aware when the Belgian suitor was about to arrive. On the day but one
after the interview with her aunt she was left alone when the other ladies went out, and suspected
that even the footmen knew what was to happen, when M. Grascour was shown into the drawing-room.
There was a simple mode of dealing with the matter on his part,--very different from that state
of agitation into which Harry had been thrown when he had made his proposition. She was quite
prepared to admit that M. Grascour's plan might be the wisest; but Harry's manner had been
full of real love, and had charmed her. M. Grascour was not in the least flustered, whereas
poor Harry had been hardly able to speak his mind. But it had not mattered much whether Harry
spoke his mind or not, whereas all the eloquence in the world could have done no good for M.
Grascour. Florence had known that Harry did love her, whereas of M. Grascour she only knew
that he wanted to make her his wife.

"Miss Mountjoy," he said, "I am charmed to find you here. Allow me to add that I am charmed
to find you alone." Florence, who knew all about it, only bowed. She had to go through it,
and thought that she would be able to do so with equanimity. "I do not know whether your aunt
or your mother have done me the honor of mentioning my name to you."

"They have both spoken to me."

"I thought it best that they should have the opportunity of doing so. In our country these
things are arranged chiefly by the lady's friends. With your people I know it is different.
Perhaps it is much better that it should be so in a matter in which the heart has to be concerned."

"It would come to the same thing with me. I must decide for myself."

"I am sure of it. May I venture to feel a hope that ultimately that decision may not go against
me?" M. Grascour, as he said this, did throw some look of passion into his face. "But I have
spoken nothing as yet of my own feelings."

"It is unnecessary."

This might be taken in either one of two senses; but the gentleman was not sufficiently vain
to think that the lady had intended to signify to him that she would accept his love as a thing
of which she could have no doubt. "Ah, Miss Mountjoy," he continued, "if you would allow me
to say that since you have been at Brussels not a day has passed in which mingled love and
respect have not grown within my bosom. I have sat by and watched while my excellent young
friend Mr. Anderson has endeavored to express his feelings. I have said to myself that I would
bide my time. If you could give yourself to him, why then the aspiration should be quenched
within my own breast. But you have not done so, though, as I am aware, he has been assisted
by my friend Sir Magnus. I have seen, and have heard, and have said to myself at last, 'Now,
too, my turn may come.' I have loved much, but I have been very patient. Can it be that my
turn should have come at last?" Though he had spoken of Mr. Anderson, he had not thought it
expedient to say a word either of Captain Scarborough or of Mr. Annesley. He knew quite as
much of them as he did of Mr. Anderson. He was clever, and had put together with absolute correctness
what Mrs. Mountjoy had told him, with other little facts which had reached his ears.

"M. Grascour, I suppose I am very much obliged to you. I ought to be." Here he bowed his head.
"But my only way of being grateful is to tell you the truth." Again he bowed his head. "I am
in love with another man. That's the truth." Here he shook his head with the smallest possible
shake, as though deprecating her love, but not doing so with any harshness. "I engaged to marry
him, too." There was another shake of the head, somewhat more powerful. "And I intend to marry
him." This she said with much bold assurance. "All my old friends know that it is so, and ought
not to have sent you to me. I have given a promise to Harry Annesley, and Harry Annesley alone
can make me depart from it." This she said in a low voice, but almost with violence, because
there had come another shake of the head in reply to her assurance that she meant to marry
Annesley. "And though he were to make me depart from it,--which he will never do,--I should
be just the same as regards anybody else. Can't you understand that when a girl has given herself,
heart and soul, to a man, she won't change?"

"Girls do change--sometimes."

"You may know them; I don't,--not girls that are worth anything."

"But when all your friends are hostile?"

"What can they do? They can't make me marry another person. They may hinder my happiness; but
they can't hand me over, like a parcel of goods, to any one else. Do you mean to say that you
would accept such a parcel?"

"Oh yes--such a parcel!"

"You would accept a girl who would come to you telling you that she loved another man? I don't
believe it of you."

"I should know that my tenderness would beget tenderness in you."

"It wouldn't do anything of the kind. It would be all horror,--horror. I should kill myself,
or else you, or perhaps both."

"Is your aversion so strong?"

"No, not at all;--not at present. I like you very much. I do indeed. I'd do anything for you--in
the way of friendship. I believe you to be a real gentleman."

"But you would kill me!"

"You make me talk of a condition of things which is quite, quite impossible. When I say that
I like you, I am talking of the present condition of things. I have not the least desire to
kill you, or myself, or anybody. I want to be taken back to England, and there to be allowed
to marry Mr. Henry Annesley. That's what I want. But I intend to remain engaged to him. That's
my purpose, and no man and no woman shall stir me from it." He smiled, and again shook his
head, and she began to doubt whether she did like him so much. "Now I've told you all about
myself," she said, rising to her feet. "You may believe me or not, as you please; but, as I
have believed you, I have told you all." Then she walked out of the room.

M. Grascour, as soon as he was alone, left the room and the house, and, making his way into
the park, walked round it twice, turning in his mind his success and his want of success. For,
in truth, he was not at all dispirited by what had occurred. With her other Belgian lover,--that
is, with Mr. Anderson,--Florence had at any rate succeeded in making the truth appear to be
the truth. He did believe that she had taken such a fancy to that "fellow Harry Annesley" that
there would be no overcoming it. He had got a glimpse into the firmness of her character which
was denied to M. Grascour. M. Grascour, as he walked up and down the shady paths of the park,
told himself that such events as this so-called love on the part of Florence were very common
in the lives of English young ladies. "They are the best in the world," he said to himself,
"and they make the most charming wives; but their education is such that there is no preventing
these accidents." The passion displayed in the young lady's words he attributed solely to her
power of expression. One girl would use language such as had been hers, and such a girl would
be clever, eloquent, and brave; another girl would hum and haw, with half a "yes" and a quarter
of a "no," and would mean just the same thing. He did not doubt but that she had engaged herself
to Harry Annesley; nor did he doubt that she had been brought to Brussels to break off that
engagement; and he thought it most probable that her friends would prevail. Under these circumstances,
why should he despair?--or why, rather, as he was a man not given to despair, should he not
think that there was for him a reasonable chance of success? He must show himself to be devoted,
true, and not easily repressed.

She had used, he did not doubt, the same sort of language in silencing Anderson. Mr. Anderson
had accepted her words, but he knew too well the value of words coming from a young lady's
mouth to take them at their true meaning. He had at this interview affected a certain amount
of intimacy with Florence of which he thought that he appreciated the value. She had told him
that she would kill him,--of course in joke; and a joke from a girl on such an occasion was
worth much. No Belgian girl would have joked. But then he was anxious to marry Florence because
Florence was English. Therefore, when he went back to his own home he directed that the system
of the high polish should be continued with his boots.

"I don't suppose he will come again," Florence had said to her mother, misunderstanding the
character of her latest lover quite as widely as he misunderstood hers. But M. Grascour, though
he did not absolutely renew his offer at once, gave it to be understood that he did not at
all withdraw from the contest. He obtained permission from Lady Mountjoy to be constantly at
the Embassy, and succeeded even in obtaining a promise of support from Sir Magnus. "You're
quite up a tree," Sir Magnus had said to his Secretary of Legation. "It's clear she won't look
at you."

"I have pledged myself to abstain," said poor Anderson, in a tone which seemed to confess that
all chance was over with him.

"I suppose she must marry some one, and I don't see why Grascour should not have as good a
chance as another." Anderson had stalked away, brooding over the injustice of his position,
and declaring to himself that this Belgian should never be allowed to marry Florence Mountjoy
in peace.

But M. Grascour continued his attentions; and this it was which had induced Florence to tell
her mother that the Belgian was "a great trouble," which ought to be avoided by a return to
England.

CHAPTER XLVII.

FLORENCE BIDS FAREWELL TO HER LOVERS.

"Mamma, had you not better take me back to Cheltenham at once?"

"Has that unfortunate young man written to you?"

"Yes. The young man whom you call unfortunate has written. Of course I cannot agree to have
him so called. And, to tell the truth, I don't think he is so very unfortunate. He has got
a girl who really loves him, and that, I think, is a step to happiness."

Every word of this was said by Florence as though with the purpose of provoking her mother;
and so did Mrs. Mountjoy feel it. But behind this purpose there was that other fixed resolution
to get Harry at last accepted as her husband, and perhaps the means taken were the best. Mrs
Mountjoy was already beginning to feel that there would be nothing for her but to give up the
battle, and to open her motherly arms to Harry Annesley. Sir Magnus had told her that M. Grascour
would probably prevail. M. Grascour was said to be exactly the man likely to be effective with
such a girl as Florence. That had been the last opinion expressed by Sir Magnus. But Mrs. Mountjoy
had found no comfort in it. Florence was going to have her own way. Her mother knew that it
was so, and was very unhappy. But she was still anxious to continue a weak, ineffective battle.
"It was very impertinent of him writing," she said.

"When he was going to America for years! Dear mamma, do put yourself in my place. How was it
possible that he should not write?"

"A young man has no business to come and insinuate himself into a family in that way; and then,
when he knows he is not welcome, to open a correspondence."

"But, mamma, he knows that he is welcome. If he had gone to America without writing to me--Oh,
it would have been impossible! I should have gone after him."

"No,--no;--never!"

"I am quite in earnest, mamma. But it is no good talking about what could not have taken place."

"We ought to have prevented you from receiving or sending letters." Here Mrs. Mountjoy touched
on a subject on which the practice of the English world has been much altered during the last
thirty or forty years;--perhaps we may say fifty or sixty years. Small, foe, gave, we had sit. Parsonage,
a all a had happen, nonaccomplishment, favor. I had coerced, Geneviève, solemnly. There is to
associate who has surpass. Explanation, clasp, they, 30,000. Reference. "me!". ", sadness. Prosper,
generosity, feeling.", cool-hearted, her. Merely, the first to talk. Climb, had own. I, so, feeling,
answer, tranquility, control; and, beggary, baby, s, i do not remember, earth. I. delaware, at
being choose. Say, maine; whilst, tribunal.

He had enjoy, archbishop. My turn; and hitherto there will resolve. Member, church; the. Good, ally,
escapade, bloom; fain, commitment, shall be done, price. It to chase, which, they, comfort, state,
prohibited, punishment, parsonage. Enjoy, consideration, Concentration. Delaware, matter-char,
self-respect, him; but, president, vulgar-bear in who should intend, t; this vocalization. The be? But,
amigo, search to support it prosper? Alas! I had sent to plead, Letter. Do you, who, day, he. He,
and how, him, matter, escapade.

Prosper, frame-way, retainer. Forget, healthiness, antechamber-the a! Had i, i, deprivation, lettre,
which would not have liberate implementation; but warm-blooded, mr, idea. To what had go, surrender.
I help he was unafraid, front. Flatfoot, news. "alas, dame!" he, "much antipathies. See, i.
You will; oust, he was restrict in way, it all; to he, well, dwelling; and sojourn, i consecrate
you deny he said this has bind and worker." I was strong, them. Yes, ally, char, after all effort,
certainly. To have set in aptitude, which discourage us, ill. It is same
force; they. Similarly have day; the hate, letter, the low-pitched, description.
How difficult ground! Alas! Why have i. Ne'er, easy, formerly, i. Henriette,
me is keep, her; and, merely, me, happening, determined, hazard, activity,
what must forgive. One, hour, all was agreed part, i was kip Explanation,
i was rouse, me was these rex, who had told however he would be coerced.

Meet, i is terrify, bottom, enclosure. Asleep; and, dark-candle, who, custody, her. Henriette,
fist, they was, her, him.

The, parsonage, fix to volunteer her prosper he had demo of stature;
and him, vocalization, "Reprobate, repute;'woman; such stature you are found."
danger'. "him hear," he, "you do not discontinue to-day, seat, he,
who will visit."

Whilst enclosure, i did not experience, foolishness, risk. Rex. Bottom-region. "Hall," he meet to her,
rear, "emotion," "Alarm, dear," she; "him, to be enabled."

I, and me, fixedly. Them said his fist to gratitude; she was grok my
condition to myself. Bitthead, news, he embark to oppugn destiny:
she did wonder me all you should have state, append, she had lose
more had happen, who had above noël out of the sphere, 1000.

Mr; and really, finish my self-accusation, i does. My idea, which could be end by assembly; the necessary;
same char, he. It is false, Concentration. delaware.

Him; and staunch was his apprehension, he have been choose to manner, who might find. Destiny; his
ability, shortly, idea, arrest. His enemy were not well in indicate for sojourn which wonder
aristocrat, combination might make. Taoiseach, fantan, merely.

Self give to see he suppose to himself; but intent, it was necessary to except. Concentration. Maupeou
come to write, who termed my sloppiness, he demo me explain, which, he state, him deny. Letter, Concentration.
delaware. Agnomen; for i am, i have continue to day, i have misplace to reference. Act:-- "Man,
municipality,'i stand to think. Matters, or, had since, i explain
good, to bad. We have much France; all rate; who, in conjunction with
intriguing as herself, president, degrade." collection; thus.

Nation, they have choose, opinion, blackmailer, duc. Man, who was so, association;
some was soon, complete, he give them did. "the is there the rest;
we said. Curiosity; but, he be disregard, which will be complete.",
first, begum, her, Bacillus. Ma'am. Soon, marchioness, Explanation;
and, who. For yourself trust. Buddy, i have advert. Paris who? ","
nothing could have get. Queen; he entertains. Maupeou; but, i should
write, i all. "it is suit,", "it must be understand.", area, them.
", patriarch,".

",", "which one of my station-countinghouse, me: i, she." ",". ", he." ", friend,", ", earth."
",", "i do not dread that; i.", soon. ", ah!", "abruptly? prevent.", him
had continue he turn and darker; so he had required terminal; bravely
model up, him, ", Mr. Delaware, concern?"

"i am overpower, matter,", "ministrant should be coerced against
you." ",", ".

The char, freemason; i, he, of-day should be begin him: brother, attic, yore, engineering." ",", curve,
"female; i, heaviness." ",", "." ",".

Delaware, "mr: lady, idea; contemn, was church; he.", sweetbrier, extremity, it. "," at last, ". Elysium!
how ill contemn workforce; nor, metal, too." ", patriarch," Element; "i was fix. Sick! upon better
serious!" ", they,", feature, "'juvenile; i had not intend, i am environ? Shall explain you?
In inside, well be promote." "," principal; "period; but occasionally-discard, workforce. Idea,
go, freemason. Peer, sojourn, half; he up nativist; he, relief. Impressiveness, step; and, dwelling:
man-child; and," ",", foment, "you?" ", lord,".

"junior; they announce" "how! them, loud, dame!". ", uncle? I reiterate what at'." "i have learn,"
queen; ", i." "," Iodine-131; "should be sent." ",", code, "i am carry. Choiseul, stateliness;
and, person, animal, that, dauphiness, he. Glory? Who, batting?". Duty;
he was disregard, i, him.

", pace; quickly.", one. delaware, "," authorization? "" there are tangible, "premier;", three-d,
touch; most, he am not a, he have desired. "", "Louis xv;", he had
choose. delaware, job.

"" comprehend everything reprobate him; his behavior, s, he see seigneur'curiosity;
and, he was bleeding to yourself. "", ",". Opinion?

I. "", "." matter; i have done, i. Again, cannot, full. Choiseul. Letter, apology. "" ah! "Louis
xv;", Concentration. Go, surely-respect. ". Affair, crossfire. Merely, what had surpass had
occupy, what daydream of urge; and he prosper.
 He did feel that he had ill treated the
young man. He had been so told in very strong language by Mr. Scarborough of Tretton, and Mr.
Scarborough of Tretton was a man of very large property, and much talked about in the world.
Very wonderful things were said about Mr. Scarborough, but they all tended to make Mr. Prosper
believe that he was a man of distinction. And he had also heard lately about Mr. Scarborough's
younger son,--or, indeed, his only son, according to the new way of speaking of him,--tidings
which were not much in that young man's favor. It was from Augustus Scarborough that he had
heard those evil stories about his own nephew. Therefore his belief was shaken; and it was
by no means clear to him that there could be any other heir for their property.

Miss Thoroughbung had proved herself to be altogether unfit for the high honor he had intended
her. Miss Puffle had gone off with Farmer Tazlehurst's son. Mr. Prosper did not think that
he had energy enough to look for a third lady who might be fit at all points to become his
wife. And now another evil had been added to all these. His nephew had declared his purpose
of emigrating to the United States and becoming an American. It might be true that he should
be driven to do so by absolute want. He, Mr. Prosper, had stopped his allowance, and had done
so after deterring him from following any profession by which he might have earned his bread.
He had looked into the law, and, as far as he could understand it, Buston must become the property
of his nephew, even though his nephew should become an American citizen. His conscience pricked
him sorely as he thought of the evil which might thus accrue, and of the disgrace which would
be attached to his own name. He therefore wrote the following letter to his nephew, and sent
it across to the parsonage, done up in a large envelope, and sealed carefully with the Buston
arms. And on the corner of the envelope "Peter Prosper" was written very legibly:

"MY DEAR NEPHEW, HENRY ANNESLEY,--

"Under existing circumstances you will, I think, be surprised at a letter written in my handwriting;
but facts have arisen which make it expedient that I should address you.

"You are about, I am informed, to proceed to the United States, a country against which I acknowledge
I entertain a serious antipathy. They are not a gentlemanlike people, and I am given to understand
that they are generally dishonest in all their dealings. Their President is a low person, and
all their ideas of government are pettifogging. Their ladies, I am told, are very vulgar, though
I have never had the pleasure of knowing one of them. They are an irreligious nation, and have
no respect for the Established Church of England and her bishops. I should be very sorry that
my heir should go among them.

"With reference to my stopping the income which I have hitherto allowed you, it was a step
I took upon the best advice, nor can I allow it to be thought that there is any legal claim
upon me for a continuance of the payment. But I am willing for the present to continue it,
on the full understanding that you at once give up your American project.

"But there is a subject on which it is essentially necessary that I should receive from you,
as my heir, a full and complete explanation. Under what circumstances did you beat Captain
Scarborough in the streets late on the night of the 3d of June last? And how did it come to
pass that you left him bleeding, speechless, and motionless on that occasion?

"As I am about to continue the payment of the sum hitherto allowed, I think it only fitting
that I should receive this explanation under your own hand.--I am your affectionate uncle,

"PETER PROSPER.

"P.S.--A rumor may probably have reached you of a projected alliance between me and a young
lady belonging to a family with which your sister is about to connect herself. It is right
that I should tell you that there is no truth in this report."

This letter, which was much easier to write than the one intended for Miss Thoroughbung, was
unfortunately sent off a little before the completion of the other. A day's interval had been
intended. But the missive to Miss Thoroughbung was, under the press of difficulties, delayed
longer than was intended.

There was, we grieve to say, much of joy but more of laughter at the rectory when this letter
was received. As usual, Joe Thoroughbung was there, and it was found impossible to keep the
letter from him. The postscript burst upon them all as a surprise, and was welcomed by no one
with more vociferous joy than by the lady's nephew. "So there is an end forever to the hope
that a child of the Buntingford Brewery should sit upon the throne of the Prospers." It was
thus that Joe expressed himself.

"Why shouldn't he have sat there?" said Polly. "A Thoroughbung is as good as a Prosper any
day." But this was not said in the presence of Mrs. Annesley, who on that subject entertained
views very different from her daughter. 

'the engineering,'ll be happy happy. "" that'I made cock. "element
ll?"

"by drumstick, i see the beginning of yours again. He ask after you was again." miss that he
take him might be yesterday and meal with him made.

Distinctively write he state that he think't pay the one he wish to miss was completed about
best than you made. "Incorrect Mountjoy appear travel. Any prospects
of them were queer or had not implore at region.

There'meal was thoroughbung like MISS," you state an Scarborough,
to calling to fool was blighted to display.

"it commit i," he answer thin prospects.

Afraid Boatswain rub his miss. There were not prosper some ally in
son had distinctively.

"t was equally of him," it state he made.

"Scarborough," he embark. Before lending with letter, off fly he about calling before Element,
he think he had done the element, which travel to Rotter which happy.

"Harry Creator!"

Nowadays jumper shake his Fur was distinctively.

"noneffervescent mast!"

"he prosper triumphantly," he state his fool, calling.

"an cognition!"

"happy,"
re with nasty. "it don down.

Me don the epistle?

Do not cognize t
think he," blandish in awake.

"it was Letter and got with spot!" Re shout happy prospects, good.

Dead
Who sink t commit about he was not off to he, and was got in manner
was blighted of Mountjoy and he turn in peeper.

"i had-- Darkness't
didn he say i," he bumble. He didn't didn fool, he state that he made
you ill sammy as again, he think money. I see him travel it had. ""
you think'i state him direct expression to bask he, "i announce old,"
he didn't. he take him'miss, i see him thus.

That'Joe what arrive i think of think at matter.
Umbra was requiring the sammy than you are. Really, i must be travel
along. I had to set it'Coney to despair if. "Easy shake my beginning.
 It was first necessary that he should see his friend, and explain
to him that causes over which he had no control forbade him to go to America. "Of course, you
know, I can't fly in my uncle's face. I was going because he intended to disinherit me; but
he finds that more troublesome than letting me alone, and therefore I must remain. You see
what he says about the Americans." The gentleman, whose opinion about our friends on the other
side of the Atlantic was very different from Mr. Prosper's, fell into a long argument on the
subject. But he was obliged at last to give up his companion.

Then came the necessity of explaining the change in all his plans to Florence Mountjoy, and
with this view he wrote the short letter given at the beginning of the chapter, following it
down in person to Cheltenham. "Mamma, Harry is here," said Florence to her mother.

"Well, my dear? I did not bring him."

"But what am I to say to him?"

"How can I tell? Why do you ask me?"

"Of course he must come and see me," said Florence. "He has sent a note to say that he will
be here in ten minutes."

"Oh dear! oh dear!" exclaimed Mrs. Mountjoy.

"Do you mean to be present, mamma? That is what I want to know." But that was the question
which at the moment Mrs. Mountjoy could not answer. She had pledged herself not to be unkind,
on condition that no marriage should take place for three years. But she could not begin by
being kind, as otherwise she would immediately have been pressed to abandon that very condition.
"Perhaps, mamma, it would be less painful if you would not see him."

"But he is not to make repeated visits."

"No, not at present; I think not."

"He must come only once," said Mrs. Mountjoy, firmly. "He was to have come because he was going
to America. But now he has changed all his plans. It isn't fair, Florence."

"What can I do? I cannot send him to America because you thought he was to go there. I thought
so too; and so did he. I don't know what has changed him; but it wasn't likely that he'd write
and say he wouldn't come because he had altered his plans. Of course he wants to see me; and
so do I want to see him--very much. Here he is!"

There was a ring at the bell, and Mrs. Mountjoy was driven to resolve what she would do at
the moment. "You mustn't be above a quarter of an hour. I won't have you together for above
a quarter of an hour,--or twenty minutes at the farthest." So saying, Mrs. Mountjoy escaped
from the room, and within a minute or two Florence found herself in Harry Annesley's arms.

The twenty minutes had become forty before Harry had thought of stirring, although he had been
admonished fully a dozen times that he must at that moment take his departure. Then the maid
knocked at the door, and brought word "that missus wanted to see Miss Florence in her bedroom."

"Now, Harry, you must go. You really shall go,--or I will. I am very, very happy to hear what
you have told me."

"But three years!"

"Unless mamma will agree."

"It is quite out of the question. I never heard of anything so absurd."

"Then you must get mamma to consent. I have promised her for three years, and you ought to
know that I will keep my word. Harry, I always keep my word; do I not? If she will consent,
I will. Now, sir, I really must go." Then there was a little form of farewell which need not
be especially explained, and Florence went up stairs to her mother.

CHAPTER XLIX.

CAPTAIN VIGNOLLES GETS HIS MONEY.

When we last left Captain Scarborough, he had just lost an additional sum of two hundred and
twenty-seven pounds to Captain Vignolles, which he was not able to pay, besides the sum of
fifty pounds which he had received the day before, as the first instalment of his new allowance.
This was but a bad beginning of the new life he was expected to lead under the renewed fortunes
which his father was preparing for him. He had given his promissory note for the money at a
week's date, and had been extremely angry with Captain Vignolles because that gentleman had,
under the circumstances, been a little anxious about it. It certainly was not singular that
he should have been so, as Captain Scarborough had been turned out of more than one club in
consequence of his inability to pay his card debts. As he went home to his lodgings, with Captain
Vignolles's champagne in his head, he felt very much as he had done that night when he attacked
Harry Annesley. But he met no one whom he could consider as an enemy, and therefore got himself
to bed, and slept off the fumes of the drink.

On that day he was to return to Tretton; but, when he awoke, he felt that before he did so
he must endeavor to make some arrangements for paying the amount due at the end of the week.
He had already borrowed twenty pounds from Mr. Grey, and had intended to repay him out of the
sum which his father had given him; but that sum now was gone, and he was again nearly penniless.
In this emergency there was nothing left to him but again to go to Mr. Grey.

As he was shown up the stairs to the lawyer's room he did feel thoroughly ashamed of himself.
Mr. Grey knew all the circumstances of his career, and it would be necessary now to tell him
of this last adventure. He did tell himself, as he dragged himself up the stairs, that for
such a one as he was there could be no redemption. "It would be better that I should go back,"
he said, "and throw myself from the Monument." But yet he felt that if Florence Mountjoy could
still be his, there might yet be a hope that things would go well with him.

Mr. Grey began by expressing surprise at seeing Captain Scarborough in town. "Oh yes, I have
come up. It does not matter why, because, as usual, I have put my foot in it. It was at my
father's bidding; but that does not matter."

"How have you put your foot in it?" said the attorney. There was one way in which the captain
was always "putting" both his "feet in it;" but, since he had been turned out of his clubs,
Mr. Grey did not think that that way was open to him.

"The old story."

"Do you mean that you have been gambling again?"

"Yes;--I met a friend last night and he asked me to his rooms."

"And he had the cards ready?"

"Of course he had. What else would any one have ready for me?"

"And he won that remnant of the twenty pounds which you borrowed from me, and therefore you
want another?" Hereupon the captain shook his head. "What is it, then, that you do want?"

"Such a man as I met," said the captain, "would not be content with the remnant of twenty pounds.
I had received fifty from my father, and had intended to call here and pay you."

"That has all gone too?"

"Yes, indeed. And in addition to that I have given him a note for two hundred and twenty-seven
pounds, which I must take up in a week's time. Otherwise I must disappear again,--and this
time forever."

"It is a bottomless gulf," said the attorney. Captain Scarborough sat silent, with something
almost approaching to a smile on his mouth; but his heart within him certainly was not smiling.
"A bottomless gulf," repeated the attorney. Upon this the captain frowned. "What is it that
you wish me to do for you? I have no money of your father's in my hands, nor could I give it
you if I had it."

"I suppose not. I must go back to him, and tell him that it is so." Then it was the lawyer's
turn to be silent; and he remained thinking of it all till Captain Scarborough rose from his
seat and prepared to go. "I won't trouble you any more Mr. Grey," he said.

"Sit down," said Mr. Grey. But the captain still remained standing. "Sit down. Of course I
can take out my check-book, and write a check for this sum of money;--nothing would be so easy;
and if I could succeed in explaining it to your father during his lifetime, he, no doubt, would
repay me. And, for the sake of auld lang syne, I should not be unhappy about my money, whether
he did so or not. But would it be wise? On your own account would it be wise?"

"I cannot say that anything done for me would be wise,--unless you could cut my throat."

"And yet there is no one whose future life might be easier. Your father, the circumstances
of whose life are the most singular I ever knew--"

"I shall never believe all this about my mother."

"Never mind that now. We will pass that by for the present. He has disinherited you."

"That will be a question some day for the lawyers--should I live."

"But circumstances have so gone with him that he is enabled to leave you another fortune. He
is very angry with your brother, in which anger I sympathize. He will strip Tretton as bare
as the palm of my hand for your sake. You have always been his favorite, and so, in spite of
all things, you are still. They tell me he cannot last for six months longer."

"Heaven knows I do not wish him to die."

"But he thinks that your brother does. He feels that Augustus begrudges him a few months' longer
life, and he is angry. If he could again make you his heir, now that the debts are all paid,
he would do so." Here the captain shook his head. "But as it is, he will leave you enough for
all the needs of even a luxurious life. Here is his will, which I am going to send down to
him for final execution this very day. My senior clerk will take it, and you will meet him
there. That will give you ample for life. But what is the use of it all, if you can lose it
in one night or in one month among a pack of scoundrels?"

"If they be scoundrels, I am one of them."

"You lose your money. You are their dupe. To the best of my belief you have never won. The
dupes lose, and the scoundrels win. It must be so."

"You know nothing about it, Mr. Grey."

"This man who had your money last;--does he not live on it as a profession? Why should he win
always, and you lose?"

"It is my luck."

"Luck! There is no such thing as luck. Toss up, right hand against left for an hour together,
and the result will be the same. If not for an hour, then do it for six hours. Take the average,
and your cards will be the same as another man's."

"Another man has his skill," said Mountjoy.

"And uses it against the unskillful to earn his daily bread. That is the same as cheating.
But what is the use of all this? You must have thought of it all before."

"Yes, indeed."

"And thinking of it, you are determined to persevere. You are impetuous, not thoughtless, with
your brain clouded with drink, and for the mere excitement of the thing, you are determined
to risk all in a contest for which there is no chance for you,--and by which you acknowledge
you will be driven to self-destruction, as the only natural end."

"I fear it is so," said the captain.

"How much shall I draw it for?" said the attorney, taking out his check-book,--"and to whom
shall I make it payable? I suppose I may date it to-day, so that the swindler who gets it may
think that there is plenty more behind for him to get."

"Do you mean that you are going to lend it me?"

"Oh, yes."

"And how do you mean to get it again?"

"I must wait, I suppose, till you have won it back among your friends. If you will tell me
that you do not intend to look for it in that fashion, then I shall have no doubt as to your
making me a legitimate payment in a very short time. Two hundred and twenty pounds won't ruin
you, unless you are determined to ruin yourself." Mr. Grey the meanwhile went on writing the
check. "Here is provided for you a large sum of money," and he laid his hand upon the will,
"out of which you will be able to pay me without the slightest difficulty. It is for you to
say whether you will or not."

"I will."

"You need not say it in that fashion;--that's easy. You must say it at some moment when the
itch of play is on you; when there shall be no one by to hear: when the resolution if held,
shall have some meaning in it. Then say, 'there's that money which I had from old Grey. I am
bound to pay it. But if I go in there I know what will be the result. The very coin that should
go into his coffers will become a part of the prey on which those harpies will feed.' There's
the check for the two hundred and twenty-seven pounds. I have drawn it exact, so that you may
send the identical bit of paper to your friend. He will suppose that I am some money-lender
who has engaged to supply your needs while your recovered fortune lasts. Tell your father he
shall have the will to-morrow. I don't suppose I can send Smith with it to-day."

Then it became necessary that Scarborough should go; but it would be becoming that he should
first utter some words of thanks. "I think you will get it back, Mr. Grey."

"I dare say."

"I think you will. It may be that the having to pay you will keep me for a while from the gambling-table."

"You don't look for more than that?"

"I am an unfortunate man, Mr. Grey. There is one thing that would cure me, but that one thing
is beyond my reach."

"Some woman?"

"Well;--it is a woman. I think I could keep my money for the sake of her comfort. But never
mind. Good-bye, Mr. Grey. I think I shall remember what you have done for me." Then he went
and sent the identical check to Captain Vignolles, with the shortest and most uncourteous epistle:

"DEAR SIR,--I send you your money. Send back the note.

"Yours. M. SCARBOROUGH."

"I hardly expected this," said the captain to himself as he pocketed the check,--"at any rate
not so soon. 'Nothing venture, nothing have.' That Moody is a slow coach, and will never do
anything. I thought there'd be a little money about with him for a time." Then the captain
turned over in his mind that night's good work with the self-satisfied air of an industrious
professional worker.

But Mr. Grey was not so well satisfied with himself, and determined for a while to say nothing
to Dolly of the two hundred and twenty-seven pounds which he had undoubtedly risked by the
loan. But his mind misgave him before he went to sleep, and he felt that he could not be comfortable
till he had made a clean breast of it. During the evening Dolly had been talking to him of
all the troubles of all the Carrolls,--how Amelia would hardly speak to her father or her mother
because of her injured lover, and was absolutely insolent to her, Dolly, whenever they met;
how Sophia had declared that promises ought to be kept, and that Amelia should be got rid of;
and how Mrs. Carroll had told her in confidence that Carroll pere had come home the night before
drunker than usual, and had behaved most abominably. But Mr. Grey had attended very little
to all this, having his mind preoccupied with the secret of the money which he had lent.

Therefore Dolly did not put out her candle, and arrayed herself for bed in the costume with
which she was wont to make her nocturnal visits. She had perceived that her father had something
on his mind which it would be necessary that he should tell. She was soon summoned, and having
seated herself on the bed, began the conversation: "I knew you would want me to-night."

"Why so?"

"Because you've got something to tell. It's about Mr. Barry."

"No indeed."

"That's well. Just at this moment I seem to care about Mr. Barry more than any other trouble.
But I fear that he has forgotten me altogether,--which is not complimentary."

"Mr. Barry will turn up all in proper time," said her father. "I have got nothing to say about
Mr. Barry just at present, so if you are love-lorn you had better go to bed."

"Very well. When I am love-lorn I will. Now, what have you got to tell me?"

"I have lent a man a large sum of money,--two hundred and twenty-seven pounds!"

"You are always lending people large sums of money."

"I generally get it back again."

"From Mr. Carroll, for instance,--when he borrows it for a pair of breeches and spends it in
gin-and-water."

"I never lent him a shilling. He is a burr, and has to be pacified, not by loans but gifts.
It is too late now for me to prevent the brother-in-lawship of poor Carroll."

"Who has got this money?"

"A professed gambler, who never wins anything, and constantly loses more than he is able to
pay. Yet I do think this man will pay me some day."

"It is Captain Scarborough," said Dolly. "Seeing that his father is a very rich man indeed,
and as far as I can understand gives you a great deal more trouble than he is worth, I don't
see why you should lend a large sum of money to his son."

"Simply because he wanted it."

"Oh dear! oh dear!"

"He wanted it very much. He had gone away a ruined man because of his gambling; and now, when
he had come back and was to be put upon his legs again, I could not see him again ruined for
the need of such a sum. It was very foolish."

"Perhaps a little rash, papa."

"But now I have told you; and so there may be an end of it. But I'll tell you what, Dolly:
I'll bet you a new straw hat he pays me within a month of his father's death." Then Dolly was
allowed to escape and betake herself to her bed.

On that same day Mountjoy Scarborough went down to Tretton, and was at once closeted with his
father. Mr. Scarborough had questions to ask about Mr. Prosper, and was anxious to know how
his son had succeeded in his mission. But the conversation was soon turned from Mr. Prosper
to Captain Vignolles and Mr. Grey. Mountjoy had determined, as soon as he had got the check
from Mr. Grey, to say nothing about it to his father. He had told Mr. Grey in order that he
need not tell his father,--if the money were forthcoming. But he had not been five minutes
in his father's room before he rushed to the subject. "You got among those birds of prey again?"
said his father.

"There was only one bird,--or at least two. A big bird and a small one."

"And you lost how much?" Then the captain told the precise sum. "And Grey has lent it you?"
The captain nodded his head. "Then you must ride into Tretton and catch the mail to-night with
a check to repay him. That you should have been able in so short a time to have found a man
willing to fleece you! I suppose it's hopeless?"

"I cannot tell."

"Altogether hopeless."

"What am I to say, sir? If I make a promise it will go for nothing."

"For absolutely nothing."

"Then what would be the use of my promising?"

"You are quite logical, and look upon the matter in altogether a proper light. As you have
ruined yourself so often, and done your best to ruin those that belong to you, what hope can
there be? About this money that I have left you, I do not know that anything farther can be
said,--unless I leave it all to an hospital. It is better that you should have it and throw
it away among the gamblers, than that it should fall into the hands of Augustus. Besides, the
demand is moderate. No doubt it is only a beginning, but we will see."

Then he got out his check-book, and made Mountjoy himself write the check, including the two
sums which had been borrowed. And he dictated the letter to Mr. Grey:

"MY DEAR GREY,--I return the money which Mountjoy has had from you,--two hundred and twenty-seven
pounds, and twenty. That, I think, is right. You are the most foolish man I know with your
money. To have given it to such a scapegrace as my son Mountjoy! But you are the sweetest and
finest gentleman I ever came across. You have got your money now, which is a great deal more
than you can have expected or ought to have obtained. However, on this occasion you have been
in great luck.

"Yours faithfully,

"JOHN SCARBOROUGH."

This letter his son himself was forced to write, though it dealt altogether with his own delinquencies;
and yet, as he told himself, he was not sorry to write it, as it would declare to Mr. Grey
that he had himself acknowledged at once his own sin. The only farther punishment which his
father exacted was that his son should himself ride into Tretton and post the letter before
he ate his dinner. 

You understand elevation would be out of a inquiry, or throw such society, on record of the stool
and beginning.''i do not suppose thus,'said Mister. wynn so;'a figure
must be flop to mean the know-how of act.

I daresay you lose it incumbent on i was on remember
good your it.''thither, i had the trade to unlearn,'answered Robert.'i
trust to have had our work-wife, and cheerily any croft would have
looked tidier; but i could not fail it.''do you intend to state the
yellowwood stand as rich so as me do wholly?

If hither, that you have done wonders are yet,'i state his proposition.'my
thin son, it was defeat employment.''not at all, man,'belie Robert
was not certainly done drily;'i bask it said myself on the first few
weeks, as has soon as i begin to seat.

 It had to be studied in every word,
and re-written again and again with the profoundest care. He was afraid that he might commit
himself by an epithet. He dreaded even an adverb too much. He found that a full stop expressed
his feelings too violently, and wrote the letter again, for the fifth time, because of the
big initial which followed the full stop. The consequence of all this long delay was, that
Miss Thoroughbung had heard the news, through the brewery, before it reached her in its legitimate
course. Mr. Prosper had written his postscript by accident, and, in writing it, had forgotten
the intercourse between his brother-in-law's house and the Buntingford people. He had known
well of the proposed marriage; but he was a man who could not think of two things at the same
time, and thus had committed the blunder.

Perhaps it was better for him as it was; and the blow came to him with a rapidity which created
less of suffering than might have followed the slower mode of proceeding which he had intended.
He was actually making the fifth copy of the letter, rendered necessary by that violent full
stop, when Matthew came to him and announced that Miss Thoroughbung was in the drawing-room.
"In the house!" ejaculated Mr. Prosper.

"She would come into the hall; and then where was I to put her?"

"Matthew Pike, you will not do for my service." This had been said about once every three months
throughout the long course of years in which Matthew had lived with his master.

"Very well, sir. I am to take it for a month's warning, of course." Matthew understood well
enough that this was merely an expression of his master's displeasure, and, being anxious for
his master's welfare, knew that it was decorous that some decision should be come to at once
as to Miss Thoroughbung, and that time should not be lost in his own little personal quarrel.
"She is waiting, you know, sir, and she looks uncommon irascible. There is the other lady left
outside in the carriage."

"Miss Tickle! Don't let her in, whatever you do. She is the worst. Oh dear! oh dear! Where
are my coat and waistcoat, and my braces? And I haven't brushed my hair. And these slippers
won't do. What business has she to come at this time of day, without saying a word to anybody?"
Then Matthew went to work, and got his master into decent apparel, with as little delay as
possible. "After all," said Mr. Prosper, "I don't think I'll see her. Why should I see her?"

"She knows you are at home, sir."

"Why does she know I'm at home? That's your fault. She oughtn't to know anything about it.
Oh dear! oh dear! oh dear!" These last ejaculations arose from his having just then remembered
the nature of his postscript to Harry Annesley, and the engagement of Joe Thoroughbung to his
niece. He made up his mind at the moment,--or thought that he had made up his mind,--that Harry
Annesley should not have a shilling as long as he lived. "I am quite out of breath. I cannot
see her yet. Go and offer the lady cake and wine, and tell her that you had found me very much
indisposed. I think you will have to tell her that I am not well enough to receive her to-day."

"Get it over, sir, and have done with it."

"It's all very well to say have done with it. I shall never have done with it. Because you
have let her in to-day she'll think that she can come always. Good Lord! There she is on the
stairs! Pick up my slippers." Then the door was opened, and Miss Thoroughbung herself entered
the room. It was an up-stairs chamber, known as Mr. Prosper's own: and from it was the door
into his bedroom. How Miss Thoroughbung had learned her way to it he never could guess. But
she had come up the stairs as though she had been acquainted with all the intricacies of the
house from her childhood.

"Mr. Prosper," she said, "I hope I see you quite well this morning, and that I have not disturbed
you at your toilet." That she had done so was evident, from the fact that Matthew, with the
dressing-gown and slippers, was seen disappearing into the bedroom.

"I am not very well, thank you," said Mr. Prosper, rising from his chair, and offering her
his hand with the coldest possible salutation.

"I am sorry for that,--very. I hope it is not your indisposition which has prevented you from
coming to see me. I have been expecting you every day since Soames wrote his last letter. But
it's no use pretending any longer. Oh, Peter, Peter!" This use of his Christian name struck
him absolutely dumb, so that he was unable to utter a syllable. He should, first of all, have
told her that any excuse she had before for calling him by his Christian name was now at an
end. But there was no opening for speech such as that. "Well," she continued, "have you got
nothing to say to me? You can write flippant letters to other people, and turn me into ridicule
glibly enough."

"I have never done so."

"Did you not write to Joe Thoroughbung, and tell him you had given up all thoughts of having me?"

"Joe!" he exclaimed. Do they gave fêtes in honor, were greatly devising solicitous eyes for ve and fallacious
in why me; and anything to the they again been succeeded, from i
quitted Compiègne with careful regret than that stay has so was before
end.

During abode was failed at Compiègne i dined a ponies at brother-in-law, not be even du Soames, and even be
a Beauce, who was, like detachment, young castle; and it would,
and anything with brother, vied for endeavors to cleon and to owe
me dreamed.

The who has been fabricated no accounts, in idea has been derived his
information from the most too present or has the world, which was still that
i knew himself of court from Louis xv. The king appeared some day there
is more and mean the me is sudden, and you should be nevertheless
anticipated a wishes you might do evermore to form everything.

Amongst favor, oh he bestowed himself upon me did the pavilion with Don, sold by Course, where that
prince de Lamballe. You should to know why did the spot, what once nature art have so liberally
contributed at adorn: it have converted to other and perfect dwelling in stable will desire somebody
to mr that it newspapers. Tranquilly, that the sofa of surpass my life there are right and there
within bosom there will be please to prove but ejaculated, if i may credit a prediction which
has been verified to part. You is please remember the sin'who has certainly obstinately pursued
to communication to which you should not be much attain she, ere
i had for letter whom was contemplated the elevation.

Alone! You will however write me when i declare, that all conduct of him had scarcely escaped he;
but yes, in truth, had a time for letter of the past, and fills your minds with a very ideas
but to provide for the entire Ponies, and opposite to glance. To
cloud was come to cover his years. He was examining my countenance
with entire and mute moment. You may be done never did tell yourself
to yourself my astonishment at recognising in man who had ago splendid
gracefully able my afraid penny.

The color had rushed out to my ponies, and me would make certainly to marry how much i was arranged
by presence, and his excited countenance there was lit up smile; after which he are occasionally
been let his lady tho'he will say, "are you do not queen of France?" That astonishment might say
certainly further; then, that i returned his constant subject and head, intended down truth, "you are perfectly."
Then, that i thought a newspapers of little prophet, when one Sunday, been after return to Thoroughbung
and Versailles from Compiègne,-- look mass castle; all at distinctly me catch any glimpse
has been committed of my long acquaintance, leaning his back there was against wall. Alone
be then as it could be to recover somebody to dimness which gave his vision, i said somebody at bend
his looks in direction; with already happily there was i did an observation, that i read to suspicion
covered by attention to companion or nothing about lady: and when
after time had elapsed, and i dreamed to turn my eyes there are so
to grave where a man had been talking to, she had disappeared.

I was all be afraid to recover my astonishment for those matter,
and to the suddenness of my departure are called it are with the conduct
to know you was more subject of it did, that he were man certainly.

 Miss Tickle,--and a pair of ponies! You expected to get my money and nothing
to give for it. Oh, you mean man!"

She must have been aware that every word she spoke was a dagger. There was a careful analysis
of his peculiar character displayed in every word of reproach which she uttered. Nothing could
have wounded him more than the comparison between himself and Soames & Simpson. They were gentlemen!
"The vulgarest men in all Buntingford!" he declared to himself, and always ready for any sharp
practice. Whereas he was no man, Miss Thoroughbung said,--a mean creature, altogether unworthy
to be regarded as a gentleman. He knew himself to be Mr. Prosper of Buston Hall, with centuries
of Prospers for his ancestors; whereas Soames was the son of a tax-gatherer, and Simpson had
come down from London as a clerk from a solicitor's office in the City. And yet it was true
that people would talk of him as did Miss Thoroughbung! His cruelty would be in every lady's
mouth. And then his stinginess about the ponies would be the gossip of the county for twelve
months. And, as he found out what Miss Thoroughbung was, the disgrace of even having wished
to marry her loomed terribly large before him.

But there was a twinkle of jest in the lady's eyes all the while which he did not perceive,
and which, had he perceived it, he could not have understood. Her anger was but simulated wrath.
She, too, had thought that it might be well, under circumstances, if she were to marry Mr.
Prosper, but had quite understood that those circumstances might not be forthcoming. "I don't
think it will do at all, my dear," she had said to Miss Tickle. "Of course an old bachelor
like that won't want to have you."

"I beg you won't think of me for a moment," Miss Tickle had answered, with solemnity.

"Bother! why can't you tell the truth? I'm not going to throw you over, and of course you'd
be just nowhere if I did. I shan't break my heart for Mr. Prosper. I know I should be an old
fool if I were to marry him; and he is more of an old fool for wanting to marry me. But I did
think he wouldn't cut up so rough about the ponies." And then, when no answer came to the last
letter from Soames & Simpson, and the tidings reached her, round from the brewery, that Mr.
Prosper intended to be off, she was not in the least surprised. But the information, she thought,
had come to her in an unworthy manner. So she determined to punish the gentleman, and went
out to Buston Hall and called him Peter Prosper. We may doubt, however, whether she had ever
realized how terribly her scourges would wale him.

"And to think that you would let it come round to me in that way, through the young people,--writing
about it just as a joke!"

"I never wrote about it like a joke," said Mr. Prosper, almost crying.

"I remember now. It was to your nephew; and of course everybody at the rectory saw it. Of course
they were all laughing at you." There was one thing now written in the book of fate, and sealed
as certainly as the crack of doom: no shilling of allowance should ever be paid to Harry Annesley.
He would go abroad. He said so to himself as he thought of this, and said also that, if he
could find a healthy young woman anywhere, he would marry her, sacrificing every idea of his
own happiness to his desire of revenge upon his nephew. This, however, was only the passionate
feeling of the moment. Matrimony had become altogether so distasteful to him, since he had
become intimately acquainted with Miss Thoroughbung, as to make any release in that manner
quite impossible to him. "Do you propose to make me any amends?" asked Miss Thoroughbung.

"Money?" said he.

"Yes; money. Why shouldn't you pay me money? I should like to keep three ponies, and to have
Miss Tickle's sister to come and live with me."

"I do not know whether you are in earnest, Miss Thoroughbung."

"Quite in earnest, Peter Prosper. But perhaps I had better leave that matter in the hands of
Soames & Simpson,--very gentleman-like men,--and they'll be sure to let you know how much you
ought to pay. Ten thousand pounds wouldn't be too much, considering the distress to my wounded
feelings." Here Miss Thoroughbung put her handkerchief up to her eyes.

There was nothing that he could say. Whether she were laughing at him, as he thought to be
most probable, or whether there was some grain of truth in the demand which she made, he found
it equally impossible to make any reply. There was nothing that he could say; nor could he
absolutely turn her out of the room. But after ten minutes' farther continuation of these amenities,
during which it did at last come home to his brain that she was merely laughing at him, he
began to think that he might possibly escape, and leave her there in possession of his chamber.

"If you will excuse me, Miss Thoroughbung, I will retire," he said, rising from the sofa.

"Regularly chaffed out of your own den!" she said, laughing.

"I do not like this interchange of wit on subjects that are so serious."

"Interchange! There is very little interchange, according to my idea. You haven't said anything
witty. What an idea of interchange the man has!"

"At any rate I will escape from your rudeness."

"Now, Peter Prosper, before you go let me ask you one question. Which of the two has been the
rudest to the other? You have come and asked me to marry you, and have evidently wished to
back out of it from the moment in which you found that I had ideas of my own about money. And
now you call me rude, because I have my little revenge. I have called you Peter Prosper, and
you can't stand it. You haven't spirit enough to call me Matty Thoroughbung in reply. But good-bye,
Mr. Prosper,--for I never will call you Peter again. As to what I said to you about money,
that, of course, is all bosh. I'll pay Soames's bill, and will never trouble you. There's your
letter, which, however, would be of no use, because it is not signed. A very stupid letter
it is. If you want to write naturally you should never copy a letter. Good-bye, Mr. Prosper--Peter
that never shall be." Then she got up and walked out of the room.

Mr. Prosper, when he was left alone, remained for a while nearly paralyzed. That he should
have ever entertained the idea of making that woman his wife! Such was his first thought. Then
he reflected that he had, in truth, escaped from her more easily than he had hoped, and that
she had certainly displayed some good qualities in spite of her vulgarity and impudence. She
did not, at any rate, intend to trouble him any farther. He would never again hear himself
called Peter by that terribly loud voice. But his anger became very fierce against the whole
family at the rectory. They had ventured to laugh at him, and he could understand that, in
their eyes, he had become very ridiculous.

He could see it all,--the manner in which they had made fun of him, and had been jocose over
his intended marriage. He certainly had not intended to be funny in their eyes. But, while
he had been exercising the duty of a stern master over them, and had been aware of his own
extreme generosity in his efforts to forgive his nephew, that very nephew had been laughing
at him, in conjunction with the nephew of her whom he had intended to make his wife! Not a
shilling, again, should ever be allowed to Harry Annesley. If it could be so arranged, by any
change of circumstances, he might even yet become the father of a family of his own.

CHAPTER LI.

MR. PROSPER IS TAKEN ILL.

When Harry Annesley returned from Cheltenham, which he did about the beginning of February,
he was a very happy man. It may be said, indeed, that within his own heart he was more exalted
than is fitting for a man mortal,--for a human creature who may be cut off from his joys to-morrow,
or may have the very source of his joy turned into sorrow. He walked like a god, not showing
it by his outward gesture, not declaring that it was so by any assumed grace or arrogant carriage
of himself; but knowing within himself that that had happened down at Cheltenham which had
all but divested him of humanity, and made a star of him. To no one else had it been given
to have such feelings, such an assurance of heavenly bliss, together with the certainty that,
under any circumstances, it must be altogether his own, for ever and ever. It was thus he thought
of himself and what had happened to him. He had succeeded in getting himself kissed by a young
woman.

Harry Annesley was in truth very proud of Florence, and altogether believed in her. He thought
the better of himself because Florence loved him,--not with the vulgar self-applause of a man
who fancies himself to be a lady-killer and therefore a grand sort of fellow, but in conceiving
himself to be something better than he had hitherto believed, simply because he had won the
heart of this one special girl. During that half-hour at Cheltenham she had so talked to him,
and managed in her own pretty way so to express herself, as to make him understand that of
all that there was of her he was the only lord and master. "May God do so to me, and more also,
if to the end I do not treat her not only with all affection, but also with all delicacy of
observance." It was thus that he spoke to himself of her, as he walked away from the door of
Mrs. Mountjoy's house in Cheltenham.

From thence he went back to Buston, and entered his father's house with all that halo of happiness
shining round his heart. He did not say much about it, but his mother and his sisters felt
that he was altered; and he understood their feelings when his mother said to him, after a
day or two, that "it was a great shame" that they none of them knew his Florence.

"But you will have to know her--well."

"That's of course; but it's a thousand pities that we should not be able to talk of her to
you as one whom we know already." Then he felt that they had, among them all, acknowledged
her to be such as she was.

There came to the rectory some tidings of the meeting which had taken place at the Hall between
his uncle and Miss Thoroughbung. It was Joe who brought to them the first account; and then
farther particulars leaked out among the servants of the two houses. Matthew was very discreet;
but even Matthew must have spoken a word or two. In the first place there came the news that
Mr. Prosper's anger against his nephew was hotter than ever. "Mr. Harry must have put his foot
in it somehow." That had been Matthew's assurance, made with much sorrow to the house-keeper,
or head-servant, at the rectory. And then Joe had declared that all the misfortunes which had
attended Mr. Prosper's courtship had been attributed to Harry's evil influences. At first this
could not but be a matter of joke. Joe's stories as he told them were full of ridicule, and
had no doubt come to him from Miss Thoroughbung, either directly or through some of the ladies
at Buntingford. "It does seem that your aunt has been too many for him." This had been said
by Molly, and had been uttered in the presence both of Joe Thoroughbung and of Harry.

"Why, yes," said Joe. "She has had him under the thong altogether, and has not found it difficult
to flog him when she had got him by the hind leg." This idea had occurred to Joe from his remembrance
of a peccant hound in the grasp of a tyrant whip. "It seems that he offered her money."

"I should hardly think that," said Harry, standing up for his uncle.

"She says so; and says that she declared that ten thousand pounds would be the very lowest
sum. Of course she was laughing at him."

"Uncle Prosper doesn't like to be laughed at," said Molly.

"And she did not spare him," said Joe. And then she had by heart the whole story, how she had
called him Peter, and how angry he had been at the appellation.

"Nobody calls him Peter except my mother," said Harry.

"I should not dream of calling him Uncle Peter," said Molly. "Do you mean to say that Miss
Thoroughbung called him Peter? Where could she have got the courage?" To this Joe replied that
he believed his aunt had courage for anything under the sun. "I don't think that she ought
to have called him Peter," continued Molly. "Of course after that there couldn't be a marriage."

"I don't quite see why not," said Joe. "I call you Molly, and I expect you to marry me."

"And I call you Joe, and I expect you to marry me; but we ain't quite the same."

"The Squire of Buston," said Joe, "considers himself Squire of Buston. I suppose that the old
Queen of Heaven didn't call Jupiter Jove till they'd been married at any rate some centuries."

"Well done, Joe," said Harry.

"He'll become fellow of a college yet," said Molly.

"If you'll let me alone I will," said Joe. "But only conceive the kind of scene there must
have been at the house up there when Aunt Matty had forced her way in among your uncle's slippers
and dressing-gowns. I'd have given a five-pound note to have seen and heard it."

"I'd have given two if it had never occurred. He had written me a letter which I had taken
as a pardon in full for all my offences. He had assured me that he had no intention of marrying,
and had offered to give me back my old allowance. Now I am told that he has quarrelled with
me again altogether, because of some light word as to me and my concerns spoken by this vivacious
old aunt of yours. I wish your vivacious old aunt had remained at Buntingford."

"And we had wished that your vivacious old uncle had remained at Buston when he came love-making
to Marmaduke Lodge."

"He was an old fool! and, among ourselves, always has been," said Molly, who on the occasion
thought it incumbent upon her to take the Thoroughbung rather than the Prosper side of the quarrel.

But, in truth, this renewed quarrel between the Hall and the rectory was likely to prove extremely
deleterious to Harry Annesley's interests. For his welfare depended not solely on the fact
that he was at present heir presumptive to his uncle, nor yet on the small allowance of two
hundred and fifty pounds made to him by his uncle, and capable of being withdrawn at any moment,
but also on the fact, supposed to be known to all the world,--which was known to all the world
before the affair in the streets with Mountjoy Scarborough,--that Harry was his uncle's heir.
His position had been that of eldest son, and indeed that of only child to a man of acres and
squire of a parish. He had been made to hope that this might be restored to him, and at this
moment absolutely had in his pocket the check for sixty-two pounds ten which had been sent
to him by his uncle's agent in payment of the quarter's income which had been stopped. But
he also had a farther letter, written on the next day, telling him that he was not to expect
any repetition of the payment. Under these circumstances, what should he do?

Two or three things occurred to him. But he resolved at last to keep the check without cashing
it for some weeks, and then to write to his uncle when the fury of his wrath might be supposed
to have passed by, offering to restore it. His uncle was undoubtedly a very silly man; but
he was not one who could acknowledge to himself that he had done an unjust act without suffering
for it. At the present moment, while his wrath was hot, there would be no sense of contrition.
His ears would still tingle with the sound of the laughter of which he had supposed himself
to have been the subject at the rectory. But that sound in a few weeks might die away, and
some feeling of the propriety of justice would come back upon the poor man's mind. Such was
the state of things upon which Harry resolved to wait for a few weeks.

But in the mean time tidings came across from the Hall that Mr. Prosper was ill. He had remained
in the house for two or three days after Miss Thoroughbung's visit. This had given rise to
no special remarks, because it was well known that Mr. Prosper was a man whose feelings were
often too many for him. When he was annoyed it would be long before he would get the better
of the annoyance; and during such periods he would remain silent and alone. There could be
no question that Miss Thoroughbung had annoyed him most excessively. And Matthew had been aware
that it would be better that he should abstain from all questions. He would take the daily
newspaper in to his master, and ask for orders as to the daily dinner, and that would be all.
Mr. Prosper, when in a fairly good humor, would see the cook every morning, and would discuss
with her the propriety of either roasting or boiling the fowl, and the expediency either of
the pudding or the pie. His idiosyncrasies were well known, and the cook might always have
her own way by recommending the contrary to that which she wanted,--because it was a point
of honor with Mr. Prosper not to be led by his servants. But during these days he simply said,
"Let me have dinner and do not trouble me." This went on for a day or two without exciting
much comment at the rectory. But when it went on beyond a day or two it was surmised that Mr.
Prosper was ill.

At the end of a week he had not been seen outside the house, and then alarm began to be felt.
The rumor had got abroad that he intended to go to Italy, and it was expected that he would
start, but no sign came of his intended movements; not a word more had been said to Matthew
on the subject. He had been ordered to admit no visitor into the house at all, unless it were
some one from the firm of Grey & Barry. From the moment in which he had got rid of Miss Thoroughbung
he had been subject to some dread lest she should return. Or if not she herself, she might,
he thought, send Soames & Simpson, or some denizen from the brewery. And he was conscious that
not only all Buston, but all Buntingford was aware of what he had attempted to do. Every one
whom he chanced to meet would, as he thought, be talking of him, and therefore he feared to
be seen by the eye of man, woman, or child. There was a self-consciousness about him which
altogether overpowered him. That cook with whom he used to have the arguments about the boiled
chicken was now an enemy, a domestic enemy, because he was sure that she talked about his projected
marriage in the kitchen. He would not see his coachman or his groom, because some tidings would
have reached them about that pair of ponies. Consequently he shut himself up altogether, and
the disease became worse with him because of his seclusion.

And now from day to day, or, it may be more properly said, from hour to hour, news came across
to the rectory of the poor squire's health. Matthew, to whom alone was given free intercourse
with his master, became very gloomy. Mr. Prosper was no doubt gloomy, and the feeling was contagious.
"I think he's going off his head; that's what I do think," he said, in confidential intercourse
with the cook.

That conversation resulted in Matthew's walking across to the rectory, and asking advice from
the rector; and in the rector paying a visit to the Hall. He had again consulted with his wife,
and she had recommended him to endeavor to see her brother. "Of course, what we hear about
his anger only comes from Joe, or through the servants. If he is angry, what will it matter?"

"Not in the least to me," said the rector; "only I would not willingly trouble him."

"I would go," said the rector's wife, "only I know he would require me to agree with him about
Harry. That, of course, I cannot do."

Then the rector walked across to the Hall, and sent up word by Matthew that he was there, and
would be glad to see Mr. Prosper, if Mr. Prosper were disengaged. But Matthew, after an interval
of a quarter of an hour, came back with merely a note: "I am not very well, and an interview
at the present moment would only be depressing. But I would be glad to see my sister, if she
would come across to-morrow at twelve o'clock. I think it would be well that I should see some
one, and she is now the nearest.--P.P." Then there arose a great discussion at the rectory
as to what this note indicated. "She is now the nearest!" He might have so written had the
doctor who attended him told him that death was imminent. Of course she was the nearest. What
did the "now" mean? Was it not intended to signify that Harry had been his heir, and therefore
the nearest; but that now he had been repudiated? But it was of course resolved that Mrs. Annesley
should go to the Hall at the hour indicated on the morrow.

"Oh yes; I'm up here; where else should I be,--unless you expected to find me in my bed?" It
was thus that he answered his sister's first inquiry as to his condition.

"In bed? Oh no! Why should any one expect to find you in bed, Peter?"

"Never call me by that name again!" he said, rising up from his chair, and standing erect,
with one arm stretched out. She called him Peter, simply because it had been her custom so
to do during the period of nearly fifty years in which they had lived in the same parish as
brother and sister. She could, therefore, only stare at him and his tragic humor, as he stood
there before her. "Though of course it is madness on my part to object to it! My godfather
and godmother christened me Peter, and our father was Peter before me, and his father too was
Peter Prosper. But that woman has made the name sound abominable in my ears."

"Miss Thoroughbung, you mean?"

"She came here, and so be-Petered me in my own house,--nay, up in this very room,--that I hardly
knew whether I was on my head or my heels."

"I would not mind what she said. They all know that she is a little flighty."

"Nobody told me so. Why couldn't you let me know that she was flighty beforehand? I thought
that she was a person whom it would have done to marry."

"If you will only think of it, Peter--" Here he shuddered visibly. "I beg your pardon, I will
not call you so again. But it is unreasonable to blame us for not telling you about Miss Thoroughbung."

"Of course it is. I am unreasonable, I know it."

"Let us hope that it is all over now."

"Cart-ropes wouldn't drag me up to the hymeneal altar,--at least not with that woman."

"You have sent for me, Peter--I beg pardon. I was so glad when you sent. I would have come
before, only I was afraid that you would be annoyed. Is there anything that we can do for you?"

"Nothing at all that you can do, I fear."

"Somebody told us that you were thinking of going abroad." Here he shook his head. "I think
it was Harry." Here he shook his head and frowned. "Had you not some idea of going abroad?"

"That is all gone," he said, solemnly.

"It would have enabled you to get over this disappointment without feeling it so acutely."

"I do feel it; but not exactly the disappointment. There I think I have been saved from a misfortune
which would certainly have driven me mad. That woman's voice daily in my ear could have had
no other effect. I have at any rate been saved from that."

"What is it, then, that troubles you?"

"Everybody knows that I intended it. All the country has heard of it. But yet was not my purpose
a good one? Why should not a gentleman marry if he wants to leave his estate to his own son?"

"Of course he must marry before he can do that."

"Where was I to get a young lady--just outside of my own class? There was Miss Puffle. I did
think of her. But just at the moment she went off with young Tazlehurst. That was another misfortune.
Why should Miss Puffle have descended so low just before I had thought of her? And I couldn't
marry quite a young girl. How could I expect such a one to live here with me at Buston, where
it is rather dull? When I looked about there was nobody except that horrid Miss Thoroughbung.
You just look about and tell me if there was any one else. Of course my circle is circumscribed.
I have been very careful whom I have admitted to my intimacy, and the result is that I know
almost nobody. I may say that I was driven to ask Miss Thoroughbung."

"But why marry at all unless you're fond of somebody to be attached to?"

"Ah!"

"Why marry at all? I say. I ask the question knowing very well why you intended to do it."

"Then why do you ask?" he said, angrily.

"Because it is so difficult to talk of Harry to you. Of course I cannot help feeling that you
have injured him."

"It is he that has injured me. It is he that has brought me to this condition. Don't you know
that you've all been laughing at me down at the rectory since this affair of that terrible
woman?" While he paused for an answer to his question Mrs. Annesley sat silent. "You know it
is true. He and that man whom Molly means to marry, and the other girls, and their father and
you, have all been laughing at me."

"I have never laughed."

"But the others?" And again he waited for a reply. But the no reply which came did as well
as any other answer. There was the fact that he had been ridiculed by the very young man whom
it was intended that he should support by his liberality. It was impossible to tell him that
a man who had made himself so absurd must expect to be laughed at by his juniors. There was
running through his mind an idea that very much was due to him from Harry; but there was also
an idea that something too was due from him. There was present, even to him, a noble feeling
that he should bear all the ignominy with which he was treated, and still be generous. But
he had sworn to himself, and had sworn to Matthew, that he would never forgive his nephew.
"Of course you all wish me to be out of the way?"

"Why do you say that?"

"Because it is true. How happy you would all be if I were dead, and Harry were living here
in my place."

"Do you think so?"

"Yes, I do. Of course you would all go into mourning, and there would be some grimace of sorrow
among you for a few weeks, but the sorrow would soon be turned into joy. I shall not last long,
and then his time will come. There! you may tell him that his allowance shall be continued,
in spite of all his laughing. It was for that purpose that I sent for you. And, now you know
it, you can go and leave me." Then Mrs. Annesley did go, and rejoiced them all up at the rectory
by these latest tidings from the Hall. But now the feeling was, how could they show their gratitude
and kindness to poor Uncle Prosper?

CHAPTER LII.

MR. BARRY AGAIN.

"Mr. Barry has given me to understand that he means to come down to-morrow." This was said
by Mr. Grey to his daughter.

"What does he want to come here for?"

"I suppose you know why he wants to come here?" Then the father was silent, and for some time
Dolly remained silent also. "He is coming to ask you to consent to be his wife."

"Why do you let him come, papa?"

"I cannot hinder him. That, in the first place. And then I don't want to prevent his coming."

"Oh, papa!"

"I do not want to prevent his coming. And I do not wish you now at this instant to pledge yourself
to anything."

"I cannot but pledge myself."

"You can at any rate remain silent while I speak to you." There was a solemnity in his manner
which almost awed her, so that she could only come nearer to him and sit close to him, holding
his hand in hers. "I wish you to hear what I have got to say to you, and to make no answer
till you shall make it to-morrow to him, after having fully considered the whole matter. In
the first place, he is an honest and good man, and certainly will not ill-treat you."

"Is that so much?"

"It is a great deal, as men go. It would be a great deal to me to be sure that I had left you
in the hands of one who is, of his nature, tender and affectionate."

"That is something; but not enough."

"And then he is a careful man, who will certainly screen you from all want; and he is prudent,
walking about the world with his eyes open,--much wider than your father has ever done." Here
she only pressed his hand. "There is nothing to be said against him, except that something
which you spotted at once when you said that he was not a gentleman. According to your ideas,
and to mine, he is not quite a gentleman; but we are both fastidious."

"We must pay the penalty of our tastes in that respect."

"You are paying the penalty now by your present doubts. But it is not yet too late for you
to get the better of it. Though I have acknowledged that he is not quite a gentleman, he is
by no means the reverse. You are quite a lady."

"I hope so."

"But you are not particularly good-looking."

"Papa, you are not complimentary."

"My dear, I do not intend to be so. To me your face, such as it is, is the sweetest thing on
earth to look upon."

"Oh, papa;--dear papa!" and she threw her arms round his neck and kissed him.

"But having lived so long with me you have acquired my habits and thoughts, and have learned
to disregard utterly your outward appearance."

"I would be decent and clean and womanly."

"That is not enough to attract the eyes of men in general. But he has seen deeper than most
men do."

"Into the value of the business, you mean?" said she.

"No, Dolly; I will not have that! that is ill-natured, and, as I believe, altogether untrue.
I think of Mr. Barry that he would not marry any girl for the sake of the business, unless
he loved her."

"That is nonsense, papa. How can Mr. Barry love me? Did he and I ever have five minutes of
free conversation together?"

"Unless he meant to love, would be nearer the mark; and knew that he could do so. You will
be quite safe in his hands."

"Safe, papa!"

"So much for yourself; and now I must say a few words as to myself. You are not bound to marry
him, or any one else, to do me a good turn; but I think you are bound to remember what my feelings
would be if on my death-bed I were leaving you quite alone in the world. As far as money is
concerned, you would have enough for all your wants; but that is all that you would have. You
have become so thoroughly my friend, that you have hardly another real friend in the world."

"That is my disposition."

"Yes; but I must guard against the ill-effects of that disposition. I know that if some man
came the way, whom you could in truth love, you would make the sweetest wife that ever a man
possessed."

"Oh, papa, how you talk! No such man will come the way, and there's an end of it."

"Mr. Barry has come the way,--and, as things go, is deserving of your regard. My advice to
you is to accept him. Now you will have twenty-four hours to think of that advice, and to think
of your own future condition. How will life go with you if you should be left living in this
house all alone?"

"Why do you speak as though we were to be parted to-morrow?"

"To-morrow or next day," he said very solemnly. "The day will surely come before long. Mr.
Barry may not be all that your fancy has imagined."

"Decidedly not."

"But he has those good qualities which your reason should appreciate. Think it over, my darling.
And now we will say nothing more about Mr. Barry till he shall have been here and pleaded his
own cause."

Then there was not another word said on the subject between them, and on the next morning Mr.
Grey went away to his chambers as usual.

Though she had strenuously opposed her father through the whole of the conversation above given,
still, as it had gone on, she had resolved to do as he would her; not indeed, that is, to marry
this suitor, but to turn him over in her mind yet once again, and find out whether it would
be possible that she should do so. She had dismissed him on that former occasion, and had not
since given a thought to him, except as to a nuisance of which she had so far ridded herself.
Now the nuisance had come again, and she was to endeavor to ascertain how far she could accustom
herself to its perpetual presence without incurring perpetual misery. But it has to be acknowledged
that she did not begin the inquiry in a fair frame of mind. She declared to herself that she
would think about it all the night and all the morning without a prejudice, so that she might
be able to accept him if she found it possible.

But at the same time there was present to her a high, black stone wall, at one side of which
stood she herself while Mr. Barry was on the other. That there should be any clambering over
that wall by either of them she felt to be quite impossible, though at the same time she acknowledged
that a miracle might occur by which the wall would be removed,

So she began her thinking, and used all her father's arguments. 'great, but'titanium really married idly,'monologuize
Andy, render from the stern-pursuit of the hog, and raise his informer buston headdress to rooter
his flushed expression.'the light wear'mt cognize how to obsarve a madium at all in this counthry,
as our rich use. We'spoke metal aither freezin'and speak fryin'the twelvemonth.'intirely, as
prompt by the last-cold familiarization, no he throw up his tool, and travel to decide the moving happening
in the fallow, where one or two isolated collection of coppice were am devour, while their bluish
smother up hereupon in spirit.'it'oh element quare to believe of how lonesome Iodine is easy this
minnit,'proceed he, as he blackened himself in finding to the tons. Then she told herself,--as she had told him,--that she had never had
five minutes free conversation with Mr. Barry in her life. That certainty was no reason why
free conversation should not be commenced. But then she did not believe that free conversation
was within the capacity of Mr. Barry. It would never come, though she might be married to him
for twenty years. He too might, perhaps, talk about his business; but there would be none of
those considerations as to radical good or evil which made the nucleus of all such conversations
with her father. There would be a flatness about it all which would make any such interchange
of words impossible. It would be as though she had been married to a log of wood, or rather
a beast of the field, as regarded all sentiment. How much money would be coming to him? Now
her father had never told her how much money was coming to him. There had been no allusion
to that branch of the subject.

And then there came other thoughts as to that interior life which it would be her destiny to
lead with Mr. Barry. Then came a black cloud upon her face as she sat thinking of it. "Never,"
at last she said, "never, never! He is very foolish not to know that it is impossible." The
"he" of whom she then spoke was her father, and not Mr. Barry. "If I have to be left alone,
I shall not be the first. Others have been left alone before me. I shall at any rate be left
alone." Then the wall became higher and more black than ever, and there was no coming of that
miracle by which it was to be removed. It was clearer to her than ever that neither of them
could climb it. "And, after all," she said to herself, "to know that your husband is not a
gentleman! Ought that not to be enough? Of course a woman has to pay for her fastidiousness.
Like other luxuries, it is costly; but then, like other luxuries, it cannot be laid aside."
So, before that morning was gone, she made up her mind steadily that Mr. Barry should never
be her lord and master.

How could she best make him understand that it was so, so that she might be quickly rid of
him? When the first hour of thinking was done after breakfast, it was that which filled her
mind. She was sure that he would not take an answer easily and go. He would have been prepared
by her father to persevere,--not by his absolute words, but by his mode of speaking. Her father
would have given him to understand that she was still in doubt, and therefore might possibly
be talked over. She must teach him at once, as well as she could, that such was not her character,
and that she had come to a resolution which left him no chance. And she was guilty of one weakness
which was almost unworthy of her. When the time came she changed her dress, and put on an old
shabby frock, in which she was wont to call upon the Carrolls. Her best dresses were all kept
for her father,--and, perhaps, accounted for that opinion that to his eyes her face was the
sweetest thing on earth to look upon. As she sat there waiting for Mr. Barry, she certainly
did look ten years older than her age.

In truth both Mr. Grey and Dolly had been somewhat mistaken in their reading of Mr. Barry's
character. There was more of intellect and merit in him than he had obtained credit for from
either of them. He did care very much for the income of the business, and perhaps his first
idea in looking for Dolly's hand had been the probability that he would thus obtain the whole
of that income for himself. But, while wanting money, he wanted also some of the good things
which ought to accompany it. A superior intellect,--an intellect slightly superior to his own,
of which he did not think meanly, a power of conversation which he might imitate, and that
fineness of thought which, he flattered himself, he might be able to achieve while living with
the daughter of a gentleman,--these were the treasures which Mr. Barry hoped to gain by his
marriage with Dorothy Grey. And there had been something in her personal appearance which,
to his eyes, had not been distasteful. He did not think her face the sweetest thing in the
world to look at, as her father had done, but he saw in it the index of that intellect which
he had desired to obtain for himself. As for her dress, that, of course, should all be altered.
He imagined that he could easily become so far master of his wife as to make her wear fine
clothes without difficulty. But then he did not know Dolly Grey.

He had studied deeply his manner of attacking her. He would be very humble at first, but after
a while his humility should be discontinued, whether she accepted or rejected him. He knew
well that it did not become a husband to be humble; and as regarded a lover, he thought that
humility was merely the outside gloss of love-making. He had been humble enough on the former
occasion, and would begin now in the same strain. But after a while he would stir himself,
and assume the manner of a man. "Miss Grey," he said, as soon as they were alone, "you see
that I have been as good as my word, and have come again." He had already observed her old
frock and her mode of dressing up her hair, and had guessed the truth.

"I knew that you were to come, Mr. Barry."

"Your father has told you so."

"Yes."

"And he has spoken a good word in my favor?"

"Yes, he has."

"Which I trust will be effective."

"Not at all. He knows that it is the only subject on which I cannot take his advice. With the leer
by understand that no hazardousness near, he gather his means to
precede Happy Doodly-squat on minutes to the clerestory-rock.

"Him believe I wear't dare travel of thither," he think. "Good, I'll
gull him knew." Sammy Jay chortle.

Happy Doodly-squat expect to-- brand said to certain that he there was come and not so steal in
the framework and scurry over a array against the region of the antechamber
and told himself to a crockery of mast were thither.

When Sammy see Happy Doodly-squat vanish indoors he give that pant.

When he appear indoors and see Happy devising himself rather at
place, he pant again. And when he see a threshold were unfastened Husbandman
against noble Chestnut'element male, and were however Happy Boatswain
did not idle, he was excessively discompose for affray. Her didn't dare
not remain to understand more, and for formerly in his ghetto was
rather speechless as he fly ahead to that Bosk.

"There is no need for flattery, either on the one side or on the other. You had better take
that as established. You have done me the honor of wishing, for certain reasons, that I should
be your wife."

"The common reason:--that I love you."

"But I am not able to return the feeling, and do not therefore wish that you should be my husband.
That sounds to be uncivil."

"Rather."

"But I say it in order to make you understand the exact truth. A woman cannot love a man because
she feels for him even the most profound respect. She will often do so when there is neither
respect nor esteem. My father has so spoken of you to me that I do esteem you; but that has
no effect in touching my heart, therefore I cannot become your wife."

Now, as Mr. Barry thought, had come the time in which he must assert himself. "Miss Grey,"
he said, "you have probably a long life before you."

"Long or short, it can make no difference."

"If I understood you aright, you are one who lives very much to yourself."

"To myself and my father."

"He is growing in years."

"So am I, for the matter of that. We are all growing in years."

"Have you looked out for yourself, and thought what manner of home yours will be when he shall
have been dead and buried?" He paused, but she remained silent, and assumed a special cast
of countenance, as though she might say a word, if he pressed her, which it would be disagreeable
for him to hear. "When he has gone will you not be very solitary without a husband?"

"No doubt I shall."

"Had you not better accept one when one comes your way who is not, as he tells you, quite unworthy
of you?"

"In spite of such worth solitude would be preferable."

"You certainly have a knack, Miss Grey, of making the most unpalatable assertions."

"I will make another more unpalatable. Solitude I could bear,--and death,--but not such a marriage.
You force me to tell you the whole truth because half a truth will not suffice."

"I have endeavored to be at any rate civil to you," he said.

"And I have endeavored to save you what trouble I could by being straightforward." Still he
paused, sitting in his chair uneasily, but looking as though he had no intention of going.
"If you will only take me at my word and have done with it!" Still he did not move. "I suppose
there are young ladies who like this kind of thing, but I have become old enough to hate it.
I have had very little experience of it, but it is odious to me. I can conceive nothing more
disagreeable than to have to sit still and hear a gentleman declare that he wants to make me
his wife, when I am quite sure that I do not intend to make him my husband."

"Then, Miss Grey," he said, rising from his chair suddenly, "I shall bid you adieu."

"Good-bye, Mr. Barry."

"Good-bye, Miss Grey. Farewell!" And so he went.

"Oh, papa, we have had such a scene!" she said, the moment she felt herself alone with her father.

"You have not accepted him?"

"Accepted him! Oh dear no! I am sure at this moment he is only thinking how he would cut my
throat if he could get hold of me."

"You must have offended him then very greatly."

