15. Two Oclock this Afternoon when the Lobsters[146] fired on our guards which was returned
by our Roxbury fort the fireing was continued for some time but how much to their Damag we
dont know one of our men was slitely wounded their fireing was from a floating Batery and it
is thought would have killed one or too men if they had not have Lain down for the Ball passed
within about 4 foot of our Barack the night passed without any alarm.

                   [Footnote 146: A nickname given to the British
                   regulars, on account of their red suits. They were
                   so called in England, as early as the time of Queen
                   Anne.]

the 16. This day they fired at our main guard but no material Damage was done the remaining
part of their mallice seemed to be postponed to a future season our american guard kept their
ground and the night passed without any alarm &c. &c.

the 17. About nine Oclock the enemy fired upon our main guard and fatigue men they through
4 Balls and 2 Bombs and one of the Balls struck 2 guns which belonged to the main guard and
the men had them on their Shoulders but did not hurt them much.

the 18. Behold their Spite this morning before the sun rise the enemy fired at our working
party on the neck this side the george tavern our rifle men fired at them and it is thought
killed too of them but notwithstanding all their fireing of balls and bombs though some of
them came so near that it could hardly be called an escape yet their was not one man wounded
on our side one bomb was thrown in the evening but did no Damage one of the enemy came to our
centrys and is now in our guard house.

the 19. I went upon fatigue the morning began with fireing from the wicked enemy at our guard
but did no hurt in the afternoon they rifle men fired at the enemy and they enemy at them and
they wounded one of the rifle men in the foot Slitely but what Damage we did them is uncertain
let this Suffice for a short acount of the tranactions of the 19 day.

the 20. I went upon the main guard at night our boats went up with in gun Shot of the comon[147]
and alarmed them by fireing Several guns and then returned without any Loss on our side.

                   [Footnote 147: The large park, known as Boston
                   Common, extended down to the water's edge, before
                   the flats were filled in.]

the 21. Nothing remarkable hapened this day at night one of the enemy deserted and came to us.

the 22. We paraded nothing remarkable I went down to the piquet.

the 23, 24. Nothing remarkable.

the 25. A flag of truce came out of town but for what I dont know.

the 26. This morning their was a man ran away from the floating battery.

the 27. Being Sunday but they make such a fireing over at Bunkers hill that it seems to be
more Like the Kings birth day than Sunday but what Sucksess they have had we are not able to
determine but we heard that they killed too men and wounded 3 or 4 four more[148]

                   [Footnote 148: About nine o'clock on Sunday
                   morning, the 27th, the British opened a heavy
                   cannonade from Bunker's hill (where they had built
                   a strong redoubt), and from a ship and floating
                   battery in Mystic river. The firing was directed
                   upon the American works on Winter, Prospect, and
                   Ploughed hills. They continued to bombard these
                   works daily until the 10th of September.]

the 28. But they still hold up their firing at Bunkers hill nothing more remarkable this day.

the 29. I went upon the piquet down to the george tavern and the enemy fired several small
arms at us but did us no Damage.

the 30. Very rainy nothing extraordinary this day.

the 31. Nothing extraordinary this day only it was rainy at night Lieutenant Foster and four
men went down to the piquet.[149]

                   [Footnote 149: There was a famous tree in Boston,
                   under which the patriots had often held meetings
                   since the time of the stamp-act excitement. On that
                   account it was called "Liberty-Tree." It was a
                   noble elm, and stood at the corner of the present
                   Washington and Essex streets. On the 31st of
                   August, 1775, the British cut it down, with no
                   apparent motive but the indulgence of petty spite. A
                   tory soldier was killed by its fall. A poet of the
                   day wrote:--

                     "A tory soldier, on its topmost limb--
                     The Genius of the Shade looked stern at him,
                     And marked him out that same hour to dine
                     Where unsnuffed lamps burn low at Pluto's shrine.
                     Then tripped his feet from off their cautious stand:
                     Pale turned the wretch--he spread each helpless hand,
                     But spread in vain--with headlong force he fell,
                     Nor stopped descending till he stopped in hell!"]

SEPTEM.

the 1. This morning very early just past one o clock the enemy began to fire from their Brest
Work and their floating batery which ocationed an alarm their fireing Semed to be at our main
guard and piquet they fired a number of guns and threw several bombs and they were permitted
to kill too men the one belongd to Col Huntingtons[150] Regement and the other belonged to
col Davidsons Regement and one of the riflemen was slitely wounded but see the Providence of
god in it when 6 or 7 hundred men were before the mouths of their canon there was but too men
killed We should not have thought it strange if they had killed 20 considering the Situation
that they were in too of the regulars centrys deserted about a hour before the firing began
this was the smartest fireing that ever has been this campaign in the afternoon they fired
upon our fatigue party but did no Damage also about Sunset there was several guns fired on
board the Ships there was several Ships came in to the harbour thus far the proceding of the 1 day.

                   [Footnote 150: Colonel Jedediah Huntington, of
                   Norwich, Connecticut. The British now seemed
                   determined to make a general assault upon the
                   besiegers, and a heavy cannonade was opened
                   simultaneously upon the Americans at Roxbury and in
                   the vicinity of Cambridge.]

the 2. I went down to the right hand of the burying place and we had not been their Long before
we were ordered of and the canon began to play upon the enemy from Roxbury fort on the hill
and the field peices from the brest work in the thicket the ocation of our mens fireing upon
them was this they had advanced about 30 or 40 rods this side their other brest work on the
neck and were intrenching their[151] they fired several guns at us but did us no Damage in
the afternoon we went down to our work again expecting every moment when they would fire at
us but they never fired one gun in the afternoon at night thir was a platform caried down to
the thicket in order to mount a canon their Nothing more remarkable to day.

                   [Footnote 151: They threw up a slight breastwork a
                   little in advance of their lines on the neck, and
                   not far from the George tavern.]

the 3. Being Sunday we turned out about day and went to our alarm post and it rained and we
cam home and John coleman drinkt 3 pints cyder at one draught nothing more remarkable this day.

the 4. We turned out this morning before day and went to our alarm post nothing remarkable
this day at night I went upon the piquet down to Lambs Dam[152] nothing more remarkable.

                   [Footnote 152: Lamb's dam was between Roxbury and
                   Dorchester. There the Americans completed a strong
                   work on the 10th of September, and mounted four
                   eighteen-pounders.]

the 5. Nothing remarkable only Benjamin Mc Lain sent home 10 Letters at one draught by Lieutenant
Bacon and Lieutenant Foster had Likt to have been put under guard for playing ball.

the 6. Nothing remarkable this day at Night our men went down below the george tavern for a
safe guard for the centrys.

the 7. We turned out early this morning and went to our alarm post and had a smart scrimmage[153]
with no enemy and this day I went upon the creek guard several Ships sailed out of the harbour
old White was buried and their was much joy.[154]

                   [Footnote 153: Skirmish.]

                   [Footnote 154: We can not explain this local
                   allusion.]

the 8. Came of the creek guard and nothing remarkable hapned onely they enemy fired at our
fatigue party but did no damage at night upon the door guard.

the 9. In the morning the enemy fired upon our fatigue party but did them no Damage in the
afternoon I went upon fatigue at night our men caried Several canon down into the thicket to
the brest works their.[155]

                   [Footnote 155: The breastworks in the thicket were
                   the Roxbury lines of fortifications in advance of
                   the fort.]

the 10. Being Sunday our men went on fatigue and the enemy fired upon them and broke three
guns that were paraded but hurt no man at night their was a man deserted from cambridg and
went to the enemy.

the 11. We turned out and went to our alarm post and Ensign Parot shook one of his men for
disobying orders this day their was a boat drove ashore belonging to the regulars and a Seargent
and 5 men on board and they were all taken prisoners at night I went upon the piquet and was
almost frozen to Death.

the 12. Our men went down to Lambs Dam to entrenching not above half a mile from the enemys
brest work but nothing remarkable hapened.

the 13. Colonel Clap officer of the day our men took this day 26 prisoners in mistick[156]
river as we heard.

                   [Footnote 156: Mystic.]

the 14. This morning I went upon fatigue down in the Street[157] and the enemy fired one shot
at us and struck the brest work but did no Damage captain Pond[158] comanded of the party.

                   [Footnote 157: The road leading from Roxbury across
                   the neck into Boston.]

                   [Footnote 158: Captain Pond was from New Hampshire,
                   and was an officer in Colonel Stark's regiment.]

the 15. Their was a regular and too men of wars men[159] ran away Last night and this morning
nothing more remarkable their was 3 guns fired on board the Ship in cambridg Bay.

                   [Footnote 159: From the vessels known as
                   men-of-war.]

the 16. Nothing remarkable hapened only the regulars fired several Shot at our men that were
upon fatigue but did no Damage.

the 17. Being Sunday I went upon the fatigue and the enemy fired several times at our men but
did no Damage and they threw several Bombs.

the 18. I came of the creek guard and the enemy fired several canon at our men but killed none
and onely wounded one or too slitely and Last night their was several men ran away from a man
of war and toward night the enemy fired several Shots from the Ship in cambridg bay and our
men fired one Shot from Prospect hill at the Ship in the Bay but did not strike her.

the 19. The enemy began to fire about eight oclock into the street but did no damage except
slitely wounding one or too at night I went upon the piquet and Nothing remarkable hapened
also their was a man put under guard for comeing on to the parade Drunk.

the 20. Nothing remarkable hapened this day the enemy fired one shot at our fatigue party but
did no damage they fired over at Bunkers hill and threw several Bombs.

the 21. Last night I was on the door guard and this morning the enemy fired small arms at our
men but did no Damage in the afternoon they fired canon but to no purpose.

the 22. Last night I was upon the door guard this being the Kings crownation[160] the enemy
fired a number of canon and toward night they put in balls but did no damage.

                   [Footnote 160: Coronation. George III. and his wife
                   Charlotte were crowned on the 22d of September,
                   1761. It was always a holyday next to that of the
                   king's birthday.]

the 23. I went upon fatigue down in the street and the Enemy began to fire at us about 9 oclock
and fired without intermition for some time bie the best acounts they fired above one hundred
balls and our men fired 3 canon from our brest work near Lams Damb and one of the balls went
into Boston amongst the housen but through the good hand of Devine providence in all their
firing they did not kill one man nor wound any except one or too slitely.[161]

                   [Footnote 161: Frothingham says: "On the 23d, the
                   British discharged one hundred and eight cannon and
                   mortars on the works at Roxbury without doing any
                   damage."]

the 24. Being Sunday we went to meting and heard a fine Sermon from psalms 14-11 this day our
men went on fatigue as usual but the enemy did not fire upon them.

the 25. I went on fatigue down in the thicket in the forenoon and at noon I was taken not well
and did not go in the afternoon our men fired three field peices at the enemy but what execution
they did we canot determine nothing more.

the 26. Nothing remarkable hapened this day onely their was 200 men draughted out to go to
the governors Island to take some cattle.

the 27. Our men went to the Island and took 12 head of Cattle and 2 horses and came of without
any Molestation[162] at night I went upon the piquet and it rained very hard and we turnd in
to the housen and La their Colonel Clap[163] was officer of the piquet.

                   [Footnote 162: This expedition was under Major
                   Tupper. They burnt a fine pleasure-boat just ready
                   to be launched, belonging to some British
                   officers.]

                   [Footnote 163: Of the Rhode Island "Army of
                   Observation," under General Greene.]

the 28. Nothing remarkable hapened this day there was too guns fired from the ship in Cambrige Bay.

the 29. This day the Ship sailed out of cambridge Bay and their was another came and took her
place at night I went on the piquet without any supper nothing remarkable.

the 30. This morning our men fired one field peice as the regulars came to relieve their main
guard and that afronted them and they began to fire their canon from their brest work and floating
Batry and they fired about 30 canon but did no damage also last night their was too regulars
deserted and came to our centrys on the neck nothing more remarkable this day.

OCTOBER A 1775.

the 1. Being Sunday I went to meting up to the conecticut forces and Mr. Wilard preacht a Sermon
from chronicles the 20th chapter 10-11-12 v also in the afternoon Mr. Wilard preachd a sermon
from 1st of corrintheans 15 ch 54 &. 55 vers, also Last night their was six mareens dessrtd
from on board the Scarborough.[164]

                   [Footnote 164: This was a sloop-of-war, carrying
                   twenty guns.]

the 2. Nothing remarkable hapned this day General Thomas Brigade passt Mustter about Sunset
as our piquet paraded on the grand parade the enemy fired 3 or 4 shots up to the meeting house
one of the balls went through the shed by the Providence tavern but did no damage of consequence
at night our chimney Swallow went on the piquet for nothing and found himself.

the 3. Nothing remarkable hapened this day at night I went upon the piquet.

the 4. We past muster nothing remarkble hapened this day onely their was four of the enemy
deserted at night.

the 5. Nothing remarkable hapened this day onely their was 5 or 6 prisoners went through the
camp that were taken at Dartmouth[165] on board the prize that our men took.

                   [Footnote 165: He probably refers to the prisoners
                   taken in the armed schooner Margaretta, at
                   Machias, Maine, in the month of May, by some
                   Americans under Jeremiah O'Brien; or they may have
                   been of the crew of two small cruisers afterward
                   captured by O'Brien. They were taken to Watertown,
                   where the Provincial Congress of Massachusetts was
                   in session.]

the 6. The enemy fired between 80 and 90 Canon at our men but killed nine onely cut of one
mans arm and killed too cows So much for this day.

the 7. I went upon the creek guard and nothing remarkable hapned at night their was a regular
deserted and the regular guard fired upon him but did not hurt him.

the 8. Being Sunday it rained and we had no preaching nothing remarkable hapned at night their
was a regular deserted and came to our men and their was another set out but they were discovered
and they took one of them.

the 9. About eight o clock their was a Rifle man whipt 39 stripes for Stealing and afterwards
he was Drummed out of the camps if the infernal regions had ben opened and cain and Judas and
Sam Haws[166] had been present their could not have ben a biger uproar.

                   [Footnote 166: The writer of this Journal.]

the 10. I went up on the creek guard and nothing remarkable hapened their.

the 11. Their was a Rifle man[167] Drummed out of the camps for threatning his offisers also
I went to Cambridg with Boats.

                   [Footnote 167: These riflemen were from Maryland.
                   The company had been raised by order of Congress,
                   and placed in command of Captain Michael Cresap,
                   who, without a shadow of justice, was made to
                   figure unfavorably in the celebrated speech
                   attributed to Logan, the Mingo chief. Proof is
                   abundant that the stain put upon the character of
                   Cresap, by the speech of Logan from the pen of
                   Jefferson, was unmerited. Captain Cresap was taken
                   sick, and, at about the time here indicated, he
                   started for home, but died at New York, on the 18th
                   of October, 1775, at the age of thirty-three years.
                   His remains yet lie buried in Trinity churchyard, a
                   few feet from Broadway.]

the 12. This day nothing remarkable hapned only I went to work along with the general at Mr.
Parkers at night I went upon the piquet.

the 13. I went a chesnuting with a number of respectable gentlemen that belonged to the army
and we had a rifle frolick[168] and came home about 10 Oclock.

                   [Footnote 168: Shooting at a mark, for liquor.]

the 13. About 2 or 3 o clock their was one of our men taken and caried to the quarter guard
for thieft abel Weatheril by name but it was made up and he was taken out at night and returned
to his Duty.

the 14. This day nothing remarkable hapned.

the 15. Being Sunday I went upon fatigue down to the george tavern and their was a flag of
truce went in and another came out.[169]

                   [Footnote 169: Communications are thus had between
                   belligerent armies. By common consent, as a rule of
                   war, a person approaching one army from another,
                   with a white flag, is respected as a neutral; and
                   to "fire upon a flag," as the phrase is when the
                   bearer is fired upon, is considered a great breach
                   of faith and honor.]

the 16. Nothing remarkable hapned Colonel Reeds Laidy came down to reveu the Regiment and treated
them[170] nothing more this day.

                   [Footnote 170: The wives of officers often visited
                   permanent camps, and formed pleasant social
                   parties. Mrs. Washington visited her husband at
                   Cambridge, while he remained there. She also spent
                   a portion of the winter with him at Valley Forge,
                   and likewise at Morristown.]

the 17. I went a chesnuting up to neutown[171] and at night our floating Baterys went up towards
the canon and fired 13 shots but unlucky for them one of their 9 pounders split and killed
one man dead and wounded 8 more one of them it is thought mortally.

                   [Footnote 171: Newton, seven miles north from
                   Boston.]

the 18. I went upon the creek guard and John Bates was Lanch corporeal also in the afternoon
their was 3 Boston men came out under pretence of fishing but they made their escape to Dorchester
point.

the 19. Was rainy and nothing remarkable hapned.

the 20. The things that were taken at the Light house were vendued and went very high[172]
Nothing more remarkable hapned this day at night their was a regular deserted from the enimy.

                   [Footnote 172: When Major Tupper destroyed the
                   lighthouse on Nantasket point, he carried away all
                   the furniture and the great lamp by which it was
                   lighted.]

the 21. I went upon the creek guard[173] and it rained all day nothing remarkable hapned.

                   [Footnote 173: The creek referred to is Stony
                   brook, northward from Roxbury fort.]

the 22. Being Sunday nothing remarkable this day.

the 23. Nothing remarkable hapned at night I went upon the piquet and nothing hapned worth
a mentioning.

the 24. Nothing remarkable hapned this day onely we heard that the french were a going to join
us upon conditions that we would trade with them.[174]

                   [Footnote 174: As early as July, 1775, Dr. Franklin
                   had suggested the propriety of a political
                   confederation of all the colonies, and the
                   establishment of governmental relations with
                   foreign powers, especially with France, which, it
                   was well known, hated England. In November of that
                   year, Benjamin Harrison, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas
                   Johnson, John Dickenson, and John Jay, were
                   appointed a committee to open and carry on
                   correspondence with foreign governments; and in
                   March following, Silas Deane was appointed a
                   special agent of Congress to the court of France.
                   Rumors of such intentions appear to have reached
                   the army, according to our Journalist, as early as
                   the 24th of October, 1775.]

the 25. We turned out and went to the Larm post and it was very cold and we came home and there
was a high go of Drinking Brandy and several of the company were taken not well prety soon
after[175] nothing more this day.

                   [Footnote 175: A very natural consequence.]

the 26. This morning early their was several Laidies came down from wrentham and they went
to cambridg and the rest of their acts are they not writen in the Lamentations of Samuel Haws,
finis.

the 27. This day I went upon fatigue and we got our Stents done about noon.

the 28. Nothing remarkable this day onely I was chose cook for our room consisting of 12 men
and a hard game too.

the 29. Being Sunday the officers had hard work to get hands for meting it was so cold nothing
more this day.

the 30. This day nothing remarkable hapned.

the 31. Nothing remarkable.[176]

                   [Footnote 176: During the whole of October, affairs
                   were very quiet, and no skirmish of importance
                   occurred. The "Essex Gazette" of the 19th said,
                   "Scarcely a gun has been fired for a fortnight." On
                   the 4th, a small fleet, under Captain Mowatt,
                   sailed from Boston harbor, and destroyed Falmouth
                   (now Portland), Maine. On the 15th, a committee
                   from Congress arrived, to consult with Washington
                   concerning the future, and a reorganization of the
                   army.]

NOVEMBER 1775.

the 1. Las night the fire ran over Samuel Hawes's hair and that provoket him to wrath Nothing
very remarkable hapned this day that I know of.

the 2. their was Some gentlemen and Laidies came down from Wrentham and they went to cambridg.

the 3. It was a very rainy day and we went to childses and had an old fudg fairyouwell my friends.

the 4. Nothing remarkable hapned this day onely the gentry went home to Wrentham.

the 5. Being the memorial 5th of novem. the enemy fired from every Ship in the harbour nothing
more remarkable this day.

the 6. Nothing remarkable hapned this day.

the 7. Their was a vendue opened att this house and their was not Less than a hundred and twenty
Dollars worth of things vendued and sold at private sale and Swapt.

the 8. Nothing remarkable hapned this day that I know of.

the 9. Nothing remarkable hapned this day that is worth amentioning.[177]

                   [Footnote 177: On this day there was quite a severe
                   skirmish occurred at Lechmere's point, now
                   Cambridgeport.]

the 10. This day I went home upon furlow,[178] yesterday Sergent Yett went home.

                   [Footnote 178: That is, a written permission from
                   his commanding officer, to leave for a specified
                   time.]

the 11. I went to captain whitings and nothing remarkable hapned.

the 12. Being Sunday I went to meting Nothing more this day.

the 13. This day the Long faced People trained at Wrentham and Serg Felt went upon the piquet
and fired several times upon the centrys.

the 14. This day I came down from Wrentham with Serg Felt and at night their was three men
deserted from the floating Battery this day we had a Lottery and Serg Foster drawd a pair of
Breeches[179] worth 5 Dollars and their was considerable other tradeing caried on at night
their was 8 men more deserted.

                   [Footnote 179: At that time leather breeches were
                   much in vogue, because they were durable. The more
                   costly ones of buckskin were worn only by
                   officers.]

the 16. Nothing remarkable hapned captain Pond Listed three or four men for the next campaign[180]
att night it was very cold.

                   [Footnote 180: Late in October a new organization
                   of the army took place, and enlistments for a
                   certain term were commenced. Hitherto there had
                   been great confusion in the matter. The army had
                   gathered around Boston from sudden impulse, and it
                   was continually changing. The excitement which had
                   brought them together had in a measure subsided,
                   and enlistments went on slowly. After a month's
                   exertions, only five thousand names were enrolled;
                   and Washington, lamenting the dearth of public
                   spirit, almost despaired. Very blustering and their was a man Whipt thirty and nine
Lashes for Stealing and getting Drunk and running away and afterwards
he was drummed out of the camps thus he &c.

the 18. Nothing remarkable hapned this day that I know of.

the 19. This day being Sunday it was very pleasant and we had Preaching Nothing more this day.

the 20. This day nothing very remarkable at night their was a regular deserted and Swam over
to Dorchester and escaped.

the 21. This day Nothing very remarkable this day the piquet was made easier by half &c. &c.

the 22. To morrow is thanksgiveing this day ended without any thing remarkable.

the 23. Being thanksgiveing I went with Serg Felt up to newtown and kept thanksgiveing their
and returnd to our Barricks at night and we had not ben a bed long when our captain came to
us and ordered us all to Lye upon our arms by order of General Washington Lesemo[181] of the
American Army incampt at cambridg and roxbury and other places[182] nothing more this day that
I know of onely 2 regulars deserted at night on cambridg side.[183]

                   [Footnote 181: Generalissimo.]

                   [Footnote 182: On the previous day, General Putnam,
                   with a strong detachment, broke ground at Cobble
                   hill, where the M'Lean Asylum now stands. The
                   object was to erect batteries for the purpose of
                   cannonading Boston. It was expected the British
                   troops would sally out of the city and attack them,
                   and that expectation caused Washington to issue the
                   order for all the troops to be ready for action
                   at a moment's warning.]

                   [Footnote 183: Frothingham says, "Two British
                   sentinels came off in the night to the detachment"
                   of General Putnam.]

the 24. Nothing hapned very remarkable this day that I know of.

the 25. This morning Captain Pond inlisted several men for the next campaign; o you nasty Sloven
how your Book Looks.[184]

                   [Footnote 184: This remark refers to several blots
                   of ink which disfigure the page of his Journal on
                   which he was writing.]

the 26. Being Sunday it was Stormy Nothing remarkable this day.

the 27. Nothing very remarkable hapned this day.

the 28. Nothing very Strange onely Peperiss curacle came out of Boston that old tory Dog.

the 29. Nothing remarkable onely one of our Privateers took a prize richly Laden.[185]

