It is almost unnecessary to say, that in the more advanced cases great care is requisite in
the administration of the baths. By over-stimulation at first, much harm may be done, and the
patient, instead of getting better, get worse. In such cases very mild currents should be employed
in the beginning. As recuperation advances, stronger currents may be gradually introduced.
The intensity of the currents should be carefully regulated to keep pace with the gradually
increasing capacity of the various organs to respond to the electric stimulus without detriment.
Both currents may be used from the first. The galvanic current should precede the faradic,
and be employed for not more than ten minutes. Where irritability is a feature of the case,
the current should be descending; otherwise ascending. This may be followed by the faradic
current, not of sufficient intensity for the first few baths, however, to cause any but slight
muscular contractions. In most of these cases iron may be advantageously added to the bath.
The duration of the baths should at first not exceed fifteen minutes; in some cases this even
is too long, the patient complaining of being fatigued perhaps after the lapse of ten minutes.
When this is the case, the bath should be at once terminated. It is in these instances not
the electric current, but the warm water bath, that gives rise to the sense of fatigue. Later
on in the treatment, the duration of the baths may be from twenty to twenty five minutes, according
to indications.

    CASE X. Cerebral Exhaustion.—K. S., aet. 42, lawyer. First
    consulted me on June 2d, 1874. The salient points in the history
    of this most interesting case are as follows: Ten years prior to
    his calling on me he was engaged in some very heavy law cases
    and other duties requiring intense mental application. At that
    time he began to manifest occasional symptoms of cerebral
    exhaustion; was unable to endure mental exertion with same force
    as theretofore. These attacks, commencing in 1864, supervened at
    various times until 1868, sometimes incapacitating him for
    business for a few days at a time, and accompanied by intestinal
    catarrh, flatulence and gastric disturbances—probably the
    results of loss of nerve-power. In 1868, having been subject for
    a time to extra heavy mental strain, he was completely
    prostrated, and compelled to retire from the pursuit of his
    profession. By the advice of his physician he went to the
    country. There, without any premonitory symptom whatsoever, he
    suffered an attack of (left) hemiplegia. I quote from his
    recital as follows: “While standing in the office of the hotel
    registering my name in the book, I suddenly dropped down,
    retaining full consciousness. I lost the power of speech for
    some hours. After twenty-four hours the paralysis began to
    recede, and in a few days I had made a spontaneous recovery. I
    then went further into the interior. Two weeks subsequently I
    had a similar, but milder attack; retained full consciousness
    and mental control. Returned to city (New York) two weeks after
    this, in a very debilitated condition. On the third day after my
    return, I had a more violent attack than either of the
    preceding—again on the left side. I felt as if a line were
    drawn perpendicularly through my body, dividing it in halves. My
    stools were clay-colored. With this attack for the first time I
    became unconscious, and passed into a delirious state. So far as
    I know, no diagnosis of my condition was made. I was confined to
    bed for a month, at the end of which I was in a very feeble
    state. I then went to Europe, where I spent some years. While
    there I consulted the first physicians of London and Paris, with
    but little benefit, however. Both mind and body remained feeble.
    My normal weight is upwards of 120 pounds, but has for a long
    time past been in the neighborhood of 90 pounds.”

    When Mr. S. came to consult me, he had but lately returned from
    Europe, whence, he stated, his physicians had sent him home to
    die. His complexion was sallow, sickly; skin of face plentifully
    wrinkled; features wearing the air of suffering and anxiety that
    so frequently accompanies painful chronic conditions. He had for
    some time past suffered from excessive cerebro-spinal
    irritability, for the relief of which cantharidal collodion had
    been employed in the cervico-spinal region (the same had also
    been used in the hepatic region, to meet the diagnostic views of
    some one of his medical attendants). He had a remittent chronic
    intestinal catarrh, with—noticeably during the periods of
    exacerbation—abundant discharge of a glairy mucus. The appetite
    was very capricious—not to say poor, and he was obliged to be
    exceedingly careful in his diet. He was not capable of any
    continued mental application. The muscular system was weak and
    flabby. All the vegetative functions were more or less impaired.

    On June 3d, 1874, Mr. S., by my directions, took an electric
    bath. He continued the baths daily for some weeks; then every
    two or three days, all the time steadily improving. He had some
    adjuvant medicinal treatment, probably similar to what he had
    already had in Europe. He states, however, that his improvement
    commenced with the first bath he took; and the baths certainly
    constituted the main treatment throughout. He gained daily in
    every respect. Mind and body were invigorated; his muscles
    increased in size and hardness; color gradually returned to his
    cheeks, etc. He continued the baths with more or less regularity
    until the close of the year, taking in all sixty-one baths. He
    was then in a better condition than he had been for many years.
    Thinking a trip to Europe would benefit him, I advised him to go
    there and remain a few months. He left early in January and
    returned in the beginning of April, 1875. He had been very well
    during his absence, until within a few weeks prior to his
    departure from Europe, when he experienced a severe attack of
    cerebro-spinal congestion, which caused him much suffering. On
    his return he resumed the baths, and continued them throughout
    the spring, continually gaining in strength and weight. At the
    beginning of last summer he was practically well. He has
    regained his normal weight (120 pounds). As a criterion of his
    bodily vigor, I will simply state that I have seen him lift,
    with ease, 350 pounds, which, for a person of his weight, is not
    bad. His mental force is as good as it has ever been. The
    digestive disturbances have disappeared; he can eat things which
    for years he had been compelled to eschew. To use his own words:
    “I am well.” In view of the fact that he had already received,
    at the hands of competent men, all sorts of internal as well as
    external treatment, I believe I am justified in attributing his
    cure almost entirely if not solely to the baths.

    CASE XI. Mr. * * *, aet. about 50, lawyer, of large, vigorous
    frame, came to consult me January 4th, 1875. He complained of
    symptoms that are the frequent results of prolonged mental
    over-taxation. His intellect was as good as ever, but he lacked
    his wonted mental endurance and power of application. His mind
    was perfectly clear, but unable to work. It was a case of
    “limited cerebral exhaustion.” Physical nutrition was pretty
    good; yet his color was not normal, being rather paler than it
    had been and has since become again. His flesh was flabby. There
    were vague neurotic disturbances, etc., etc. He had until
    recently occupied a leading public position, and the onerous
    duties that devolved on him in connection with this, evidently
    stood in direct etiological relation to his trouble. I ordered
    an electric bath every other day. This was complied with until
    the end of February, when the patient had apparently entirely
    recovered his health, mentally as well as physically. I saw him
    not very long ago; he looked the picture of health, and told me
    that he was and had been since I saw him, perfectly well in
    every respect.

    CASE XII. Mr. L., aet. 23, presented himself for treatment in
    October, 1874. He had at various times made the attempt to study
    some profession, but had never been able to concentrate his mind
    sufficiently on any object to enable him to persevere in its
    pursuit. He was fretful, irritable and vacillating; would desire
    one thing to-day, another to-morrow; never long of the same
    mind. Melancholia, digestive disturbances and hypochondriacal
    phenomena accompanied this condition. No organic disease was
    discoverable. On October 1st he took his first bath. Very
    shortly after this he commenced the study of medicine. He
    improved rapidly in every respect. During the month of October
    he had six baths, which resulted in complete and permanent
    relief of all the symptoms. He progressed satisfactorily in his
    studies, and is at the present time taking his second course in
    one of our city medical colleges.

                               AGRYPNIA.

                      (INSOMNIA; SLEEPLESSNESS).

Although, as a rule, but the symptom of some definite pathological condition, agrypnia is of
such frequent occurrence, and so detrimental to the general health, that it appears to me to
merit special consideration. This holds good especially in this connection, because, even where
electric baths fail to influence the disease giving rise to the insomnia, they almost invariably
remove this, irrespective of its cause. Even where, the disease itself remaining uncured, the
insomnia must return sooner or later, the sleep is very much improved while the baths are being
had recourse to. We must of course endeavor in all cases to relieve the original disease, and,
where the baths are not adapted to this purpose, resort to other and appropriate means. It
will be found of no small service to us in the therapeutical management of every case, to be
enabled to procure for the patient, without the aid of medicinal hypnotics, sufficient of sleep
during treatment.

    CASE XIII. Mr. A., from the clientele of Dr. LEONARD WEBER,
    was sent by Dr. W. to take electric baths. He suffered from
    chronic spinal congestion. Among the most prominent and annoying
    symptoms was agrypnia. It was for the relief of this symptom
    chiefly that Dr. W. ordered him the baths. He began to improve
    in this respect from the time he took his first bath, and
    although the disease itself remained uncured, he enjoyed good
    sound sleep while he was under treatment, his general health
    improved, and he frequently spoke of the notable benefits that
    he received from the baths. He continued them until his
    departure for Europe, where, by direction of his physician, he
    went last spring. I have not seen him since, but Dr. W. tells me
    that he is doing well.

