"Yes, it will all be explained some day," said Mrs Thornton solemnly. "Don't ask me how, for
I can't tell.  I only know that evil deeds are the most difficult things in the world to hide,
and that in the most wonderful and unexpected ways they are discovered long after hope of detection
has been abandoned.  It will be so in this case also.  Whoever is mean and wicked enough to
allow you, dear children, to bear an unjust suspicion in addition to your own trouble, will
be put to the shame he deserves.  As for your coming back again, I will not give up hope if
you do.  I can't afford to lose all my castles in the air.  It is decided that one of you is
to be Lady of the Manor, and put our societies out of debt, and pay for a parish nurse, and
take my dear girls about when they come home, and make life a fairy tale for us all.  You have
raised my expectations, and I intend to go on expecting!  Seriously, dears, whatever Mr Farrell
may say to you just now, in the first heat of disappointment, I cannot believe he will really
think less of you for giving up your own pleasure to hurry back to your mother.  Mr Melland
has only himself to thank if his name is struck off the list; but you were willing and anxious
to stay, and are the victims of circumstances. If I were in the squire's place I should think
all the more highly of you for your unselfish devotion, and I believe he will, though he will
never confess as much in words.  But time will show!  Meantime, my poor dears, we will think
of you every day, and pray for you that you may be shown what to do, and have strength to do
it.  I have had my own share of money troubles, and would never try to belittle them in my
own case or in the case of others.  They are very hard and sordid, and far- reaching.  There
was a time in my life when money seemed in the background of every thought, and I could not
get away from it; but I have learnt to trust instead of worrying, and that's the great lesson
of life.  It isn't mastered in a day; it took me years to learn, and many bitter experiences,
which I hope you may be spared; but try, dears, to do your best, and leave the rest with God!
Then comes the `quiet mind' which will keep you calm and restful through all outward troubles."

The two young, wistful faces gazed into hers, and her eyes filled with tears of pity.

"Now tell me honestly--shall I help you best by staying, or by going away at once?  I have
arranged to do whichever suits you best.  If you need any help."

"Oh, thank you!  The best help of all would be to stay and drive down to the station with us.
The packing is all done--in a way!  But I expect that in our haste we have left lots of things
behind, for we worked together, and in such a hurry and confusion that we hardly knew what
we were about.  Poor Elsie has packed our new garments in the new trunks, and watered them
with tears.  I expect it will be months before they are opened.  We shall have no use for such
fineries now."

"You can never tell what may happen, but if you don't, there is no cause to grieve.  They have
served their day, and have given you pleasure. Never mind if you have left some oddments behind;
Elsie can send them on.  I never have a visitor at the vicarage that I have not to expend my
substance posting toothbrushes or sponge-bags or stray garments after their departure."

Truth to tell, Mrs Thornton was much relieved at being allowed to accompany the girls to the
station.

The Vicar's wife possessed even more than her share of feminine curiosity, and was longing
to discover in what fashion Victor Druce said good-bye to Ruth.

He was already waiting in the dining-room when she went down with the girls a few minutes later
to partake of some light refreshment before starting on their long journey, and nothing could
have been more unobtrusively sympathetic or attentive than the manner in which he waited upon
them, anticipating every want, and ministering to it with eager hands.  The room itself was
so spacious that unconsciously the little party split into groups; and Mrs Thornton found herself
tete-a- tete with Jack Melland, obviously in the worst of humours.

"Can you do nothing?  Is there nothing you can say to knock a little common-sense into those
girls' heads?  It's the maddest trick, rushing off like this in defiance of the old man's wishes.
What can they do at home--a couple of children like that?  They are better out of the way.
At any rate, one of them might have stayed--Mollie, for instance--and kept things going here
till she saw how things worked out.  They have no right to rush off together at a moment's
notice!" he cried irritably; whereat Mrs Thornton smiled involuntarily.

"Isn't it rather a case of people in glass houses, Mr Melland?  You have set a bad example
without half the excuse of these dear girls.  It seems to me their plain duty to return to
their parents when they are in trouble, so I have not attempted to dissuade them in any way."

"But--" Jack made a slight but eloquent gesture of the head in Victor's direction.  "It's such
a walk over for somebody else!  I can't bear the thought of it.  This place ought to belong
to one of those girls--it is theirs by rights.  It maddens me to see them throwing away their
chance, for I'm afraid Mr Farrell will never forgive them for going against his wishes."

"Don't be too sure!" returned Mrs Thornton, nodding her head sagely. "Mr Farrell is not half
so obstinate as he pretends, and however annoyed he may be to-day he can't help softening when
he remembers that they have put all their own pleasures and self-interests on one side to return
to work and worry for their mother's sake.  If he wanted a test of character, surely nothing
could be better than this!  I don't think it will be by any means a `walk over' for Mr Druce.
My firm belief is, that Ruth and Mollie have as good or even a better chance than they had before."

"I say," cried Jack cordially, "you are a brick!"  He turned towards her with a bright, boyish
smile, which took years off his age.  "You don't know how you have cheered me by saying that!
I hated to think of them as being out of the running; but you will rub it in, won't you? Don't
let Druce have it all his own way!  Impress upon the old fellow what you said just now--unselfishness
and hard work, and all that sort of thing.  You will know how to do it, so as to make him see
that he ought to admire the girls more for going than staying."

Mrs Thornton smiled indulgently.

"I can try, at least.  I'm only sorry that I can't do the same for you. You have not the excuse
of home troubles, and I'm afraid Mr Farrell--"

"Oh, never mind me; I don't count!  I have been out of the running from the first, and it is
only through an accident that I have stayed so long.  I don't want anything from Mr Farrell
but good-feeling and a fair judgment.  It cut me up to say good-bye when I saw how feeble he
looked.  I don't want you to plead my cause, because I relinquished my claim long ago; but
if you get a chance, you might just let him know that I was genuinely sorry to leave him for
his own sake."

Jack's manly, straightforward speech was just what Mrs Thornton expected from him, and she
gladly consented to convey his message to Mr Farrell.

