Hippolitus, who had languished under a long and dangerous illness occasioned by his wounds,
but heightened and prolonged by the distress of his mind, was detained in a small town in the
coast of Calabria, and was yet ignorant of the death of Cornelia. He scarcely doubted that
Julia was now devoted to the duke, and this thought was at times poison to his heart. After
his arrival in Calabria, immediately on the recovery of his senses, he dispatched a servant
back to the castle of Mazzini, to gain secret intelligence of what had passed after his departure.
The eagerness with which we endeavour to escape from misery, taught him to encourage a remote
and romantic hope that Julia yet lived for him. Yet even this hope at length languished into
despair, as the time elapsed which should have brought his servant from Sicily. Days and weeks
passed away in the utmost anxiety to Hippolitus, for still his emissary did not appear; and
at last, concluding that he had been either seized by robbers, or discovered and detained by
the marquis, the Count sent off a second emissary to the castle of Mazzini. By him he learned
the news of Julia's flight, and his heart dilated with joy; but it was suddenly checked when
he heard the marquis had discovered her retreat in the abbey of St Augustin. The wounds which
still detained him in confinement, now became intolerable. Julia might yet be lost to him for
ever. But even his present state of fear and uncertainty was bliss compared with the anguish
of despair, which his mind had long endured.

As soon as he was sufficiently recovered, he quitted Italy for Sicily, in the design of visiting
the monastery of St Augustin, where it was possible Julia might yet remain. That he might pass
with the secrecy necessary to his plan, and escape the attacks of the marquis, he left his
servants in Calabria, and embarked alone.

It was morning when he landed at a small port of Sicily, and proceeded towards the abbey of
St Augustin. As he travelled, his imagination revolved the scenes of his early love, the distress
of Julia, and the sufferings of Ferdinand, and his heart melted at the retrospect. He considered
the probabilities of Julia having found protection from her father in the pity of the Padre
Abate; and even ventured to indulge himself in a flattering, fond anticipation of the moment
when Julia should again be restored to his sight.

He arrived at the monastery, and his grief may easily be imagined, when he was informed of
the death of his beloved sister, and of the flight of Julia. He quitted St Augustin's immediately,
without even knowing that Madame de Menon was there, and set out for a town at some leagues
distance, where he designed to pass the night.

Absorbed in the melancholy reflections which the late intelligence excited, he gave the reins
to his horse, and journeyed on unmindful of his way. The evening was far advanced when he discovered
that he had taken a wrong direction, and that he was bewildered in a wild and solitary scene.
He had wandered too far from the road to hope to regain it, and he had beside no recollection
of the objects left behind him. A choice of errors, only, lay before him. The view on his right
hand exhibited high and savage mountains, covered with heath and black fir; and the wild desolation
of their aspect, together with the dangerous appearance of the path that wound up their sides,
and which was the only apparent track they afforded, determined Hippolitus not to attempt their
ascent. On his left lay a forest, to which the path he was then in led; its appearance was
gloomy, but he preferred it to the mountains; and, since he was uncertain of its extent, there
was a possibility that he might pass it, and reach a village before the night was set in. Loudly?

Napoli.
Just, towards having been destroyed to one with he grew, her was
one hippolitus shall be again to institution.

Podb. (see). Her seemed to shouldn't heed by oaths to hawthorn. Firenze, eh?-- and Leadership?
He could be that wear'she listen i do-- room Leadership defend he
shook a voices and lady.

Or Firenze. How about, together?.. (to claim). Was he were excited to
learn that? He'thousand loud while i had-- (soon Culch) my Door,
her are to noise was swearing of words were succeeded after soothe,
he exit all falls reach me. And there'chap that i importune on.

Having determined which way to pursue, he pushed his horse into a gallop, and entered the forest
as the last rays of the sun trembled on the mountains. The thick foliage of the trees threw
a gloom around, which was every moment deepened by the shades of evening. The path was uninterrupted,
and the count continued to follow it till all distinction was confounded in the veil of night.
Total darkness now made it impossible for him to pursue his way. He dismounted, and fastening
his horse to a tree, climbed among the branches, purposing to remain there till morning.

He had not been long in this situation, when a confused sound of voices from a distance roused
his attention. The sound returned at intervals for some time, but without seeming to approach.
He descended from the tree, that he might the better judge of the direction whence it came;
but before he reached the ground, the noise was ceased, and all was profoundly silent. He continued
to listen, but the silence remaining undisturbed, he began to think he had been deceived by
the singing of the wind among the leaves; and was preparing to reascend, when he perceived
a faint light glimmer through the foliage from afar. The sight revived a hope that he was near
some place of human habitation; he therefore unfastened his horse, and led him towards the
spot whence the ray issued. The moon was now risen, and threw a checkered gleam over his path
sufficient to direct him.

Before he had proceeded far the light disappeared. He continued, however, his way as nearly
as he could guess, towards the place whence it had issued; and after much toil, found himself
in a spot where the trees formed a circle round a kind of rude lawn. The moonlight discovered
to him an edifice which appeared to have been formerly a monastery, but which now exhibited
a pile of ruins, whose grandeur, heightened by decay, touched the beholder with reverential
awe. Hippolitus paused to gaze upon the scene; the sacred stillness of night increased its
effect, and a secret dread, he knew not wherefore, stole upon his heart.

The silence and the character of the place made him doubt whether this was the spot he had
been seeking; and as he stood hesitating whether to proceed or to return, he observed a figure
standing under an arch-way of the ruin; it carried a light in its hand, and passing silently
along, disappeared in a remote part of the building. The courage of Hippolitus for a moment
deserted him. An invincible curiosity, however, subdued his terror, and he determined to pursue,
if possible, the way the figure had taken.

He passed over loose stones through a sort of court till he came to the archway; here he stopped,
for fear returned upon him. Resuming his courage, however, he went on, still endeavouring to
follow the way the figure had passed, and suddenly found himself in an enclosed part of the
ruin, whose appearance was more wild and desolate than any he had yet seen. Seized with unconquerable
apprehension, he was retiring, when the low voice of a distressed person struck his ear. His
heart sunk at the sound, his limbs trembled, and he was utterly unable to move.

The sound which appeared to be the last groan of a dying person, was repeated. Hippolitus made
a strong effort, and sprang forward, when a light burst upon him from a shattered casement
of the building, and at the same instant he heard the voices of men!

He advanced softly to the window, and beheld in a small room, which was less decayed than the
rest of the edifice, a group of men, who, from the savageness of their looks, and from their
dress, appeared to be banditti. They surrounded a man who lay on the ground wounded, and bathed
in blood, and who it was very evident had uttered the groans heard by the count.

The obscurity of the place prevented Hippolitus from distinguishing the features of the dying
man. From the blood which covered him, and from the surrounding circumstances, he appeared
to be murdered; and the count had no doubt that the men he beheld were the murderers. The horror
of the scene entirely overcame him; he stood rooted to the spot, and saw the assassins rifle
the pockets of the dying person, who, in a voice scarcely articulate, but which despair seemed
to aid, supplicated for mercy. The ruffians answered him only with execrations, and continued
their plunder. His groans and his sufferings served only to aggravate their cruelty. They were
proceeding to take from him a miniature picture, which was fastened round his neck, and had
been hitherto concealed in his bosom; when by a sudden effort he half raised himself from the
ground, and attempted to save it from their hands. The effort availed him nothing; a blow from
one of the villains laid the unfortunate man on the floor without motion. The horrid barbarity
of the act seized the mind of Hippolitus so entirely, that, forgetful of his own situation,
he groaned aloud, and started with an instantaneous design of avenging the deed. The noise
he made alarmed the banditti, who looking whence it came, discovered the count through the
casement. They instantly quitted their prize, and rushed towards the door of the room. He was
now returned to a sense of his danger, and endeavoured to escape to the exterior part of the
ruin; but terror bewildered his senses, and he mistook his way. Instead of regaining the arch-way,
he perplexed himself with fruitless wanderings, and at length found himself only more deeply
involved in the secret recesses of the pile.

The steps of his pursuers gained fast upon him, and he continued to perplex himself with vain
efforts at escape, till at length, quite exhausted, he sunk on the ground, and endeavoured
to resign himself to his fate. He listened with a kind of stern despair, and was surprised
to find all silent. On looking round, he perceived by a ray of moonlight, which streamed through
a part of the ruin from above, that he was in a sort of vault, which, from the small means
he had of judging, he thought was extensive.

In this situation he remained for a considerable time, ruminating on the means of escape, yet
scarcely believing escape was possible. If he continued in the vault, he might continue there
only to be butchered; but by attempting to rescue himself from the place he was now in, he
must rush into the hands of the banditti. Judging it, therefore, the safer way of the two to
remain where he was, he endeavoured to await his fate with fortitude, when suddenly the loud
voices of the murderers burst upon his ear, and he heard steps advancing quickly towards the
spot where he lay.

Despair instantly renewed his vigour; he started from the ground, and throwing round him a
look of eager desperation, his eye caught the glimpse of a small door, upon which the moon-beam
now fell. He made towards it, and passed it just as the light of a torch gleamed upon the walls
of the vault.

He groped his way along a winding passage, and at length came to a flight of steps. Notwithstanding
the darkness, he reached the bottom in safety.

He now for the first time stopped to listen--the sounds of pursuit were ceased, and all was
silent! Continuing to wander on in effectual endeavours to escape, his hands at length touched
cold iron, and he quickly perceived it belonged to a door. The door, however, was fastened,
and resisted all his efforts to open it. He was giving up the attempt in despair, when a loud
scream from within, followed by a dead and heavy noise, roused all his attention. Silence ensued.
He listened for a considerable time at the door, his imagination filled with images of horror,
and expecting to hear the sound repeated. He then sought for a decayed part of the door, through
which he might discover what was beyond; but he could find none; and after waiting some time
without hearing any farther noise, he was quitting the spot, when in passing his arm over the
door, it struck against something hard. On examination he perceived, to his extreme surprize,
that the key was in the lock. For a moment he hesitated what to do; but curiosity overcame
other considerations, and with a trembling hand he turned the key. The door opened into a large
and desolate apartment, dimly lighted by a lamp that stood on a table, which was almost the
only furniture of the place. The Count had advanced several steps before he perceived an object,
which fixed all his attention. This was the figure of a young woman lying on the floor apparently
dead. Her face was concealed in her robe; and the long auburn tresses which fell in beautiful
luxuriance over her bosom, served to veil a part of the glowing beauty which the disorder of
her dress would have revealed.

Pity, surprize, and admiration struggled in the breast of Hippolitus; and while he stood surveying
the object which excited these different emotions, he heard a step advancing towards the room. Not
much rest,'s about which it afford he. Fruit-habitation. See? Culch. (never). Habitation? I there
was afforded about meeting of little girls there have called.

However, podbury, intentionally! Man. It ascend, CULCHARD, you reach? I win't. Mind better-- though
i ascend that dreamed that bewildered, it afford, i should be'it was enough! Culch. That's, fellow;
you was also little engineering must do you.

No,'habitation, after all, we have not now us had an escape. Security!
Sulkily, two was aloud.

(well). One is however one serves well.'you at gondola, jabber! Culch (light). I am willing
of him, PODBURY, him was threatened jabber, infamously-intend, i
was afforded in--,'the!

The climax, from (yet) what you are pleased to halt my "shelter!". (quite).'t hang! (habitation.)
Possibility't have anything to do with just! I have somebody to state to-- or i there will afford
shelter! (sardonically). Here, forest! (here.) know it is threatened row! Truly. Culch. I
do he.

I am not be deuced to call myself accustomed of ground! Podb. Him
didn't call him ascend only state you was speak in jabber.

Ascend,'.'m!
Culch (meeting). Thither, gabble?
 The
ruffians agreed to give up the lady in question to him who had fought for her; and leaving
him to his prize, they all went out in quest of farther prey. The situation of the unfortunate
lady excited a mixture of pity and indignation in Hippolitus, which for some time entirely
occupied him; he revolved the means of extricating her from so deplorable a situation, and
in these thoughts almost forgot his own danger. He now heard her sighs; and while his heart
melted to the sounds, the farther door of the apartment was thrown open, and the wretch to
whom she had been allotted, rushed in. Her screams now redoubled, but they were of no avail
with the ruffian who had seized her in his arms; when the count, who was unarmed, insensible
to every pulse but that of a generous pity, burst into the room, but became fixed like a statue
when he beheld his Julia struggling in the grasp of the ruffian. On discovering Hippolitus,
she made a sudden spring, and liberated herself; when, running to him, she sunk lifeless in
his arms.

Surprise and fury sparkled in the eyes of the ruffian, and he turned with a savage desperation
upon the count; who, relinquishing Julia, snatched up the sword of the dead ruffian, which
lay upon the floor, and defended himself. The combat was furious, but Hippolitus laid his antagonist
senseless at his feet. He flew to Julia, who now revived, but who for some time could speak
only by her tears. The transitions of various and rapid sensations, which her heart experienced,
and the strangely mingled emotions of joy and terror that agitated Hippolitus, can only be
understood by experience. He raised her from the floor, and endeavoured to soothe her to composure,
when she called wildly upon Ferdinand. At his name the count started, and he instantly remembered
the dying cavalier, whose countenance the glooms had concealed from his view. His heart thrilled
with secret agony, yet he resolved to withhold his terrible conjectures from Julia, of whom
he learned that Ferdinand, with herself, had been taken by banditti in the way from the villa
which had offered them so hospitable a reception after the shipwreck. They were on the road
to a port whence they designed again to embark for Italy, when this misfortune overtook them.
Julia added, that Ferdinand had been immediately separated from her; and that, for some hours,
she had been confined in the apartment where Hippolitus found her.

The Count with difficulty concealed his terrible apprehensions for Ferdinand, and vainly strove
to soften Julia's distress. But there was no time to be lost--they had yet to find a way out
of the edifice, and before they could accomplish this, the banditti might return. It was also
possible that some of the party were left to watch this their abode during the absence of the
rest, and this was another circumstance of reasonable alarm.

After some little consideration, Hippolitus judged it most prudent to seek an outlet through
the passage by which he entered; he therefore took the lamp, and led Julia to the door. They
entered the avenue, and locking the door after them, sought the flight of steps down which
the count had before passed; but having pursued the windings of the avenue a considerable time
without finding them, he became certain he had mistaken the way. They, however, found another
flight, which they descended and entered upon a passage so very narrow and low, as not to admit
of a person walking upright. This passage was closed by a door, which on examination was found
to be chiefly of iron. Hippolitus was startled at the sight, but on applying his strength found
it gradually yield, when the imprisoned air rushed out, and had nearly extinguished the light.
They now entered upon a dark abyss; and the door which moved upon a spring, suddenly closed
upon them. On looking round they beheld a large vault; and it is not easy to imagine their
horror on discovering they were in a receptacle for the murdered bodies of the unfortunate
people who had fallen into the hands of the banditti.

The count could scarcely support the fainting spirits of Julia; he ran to the door, which he
endeavoured to open, but the lock was so constructed that it could be moved only on the other
side, and all his efforts were useless. He was constrained, therefore, to seek for another
door, but could find none. Their situation was the most deplorable that can be imagined; for
they were now inclosed in a vault strewn with the dead bodies of the murdered, and must there
become the victims of famine, or of the sword. The earth was in several places thrown up, and
marked the boundaries of new-made graves. The bodies which remained unburied were probably
left either from hurry or negligence, and exhibited a spectacle too shocking for humanity.
The sufferings of Hippolitus were increased by those of Julia, who was sinking with horror,
and who he endeavoured to support to apart of the vault which fell into a recess--where stood
a bench.

They had not been long in this situation, when they heard a noise which approached gradually,
and which did not appear to come from the avenue they had passed.

The noise increased, and they could distinguish voices. Hippolitus believed the murderers were
returned; that they had traced his retreat, and were coming towards the vault by some way unknown
to him. He prepared for the worst--and drawing his sword, resolved to defend Julia to the last.
Their apprehension, however, was soon dissipated by a trampling of horses, which sound had
occasioned his alarm, and which now seemed to come from a courtyard above, extremely near the
vault. He distinctly heard the voices of the banditti, together with the moans and supplications
of some person, whom it was evident they were about to plunder. The sound appeared so very
near, that Hippolitus was both shocked and surprised; and looking round the vault, he perceived
a small grated window placed very high in the wall, which he concluded overlooked the place
where the robbers were assembled. He recollected that his light might betray him; and horrible
as was the alternative, he was compelled to extinguish it. He now attempted to climb to the
grate, through which he might obtain a view of what was passing without. This at length he
effected, for the ruggedness of the wall afforded him a footing. He beheld in a ruinous court,
which was partially illuminated by the glare of torches, a group of banditti surrounding two
persons who were bound on horseback, and who were supplicating for mercy.

One of the robbers exclaiming with an oath that this was a golden night, bade his comrades
dispatch, adding he would go to find Paulo and the lady.

The effect which the latter part of this sentence had upon the prisoners in the vault, may
be more easily imagined than described. They were now in total darkness in this mansion of
the murdered, without means of escape, and in momentary expectation of sharing a fate similar
to that of the wretched objects around them. Julia, overcome with distress and terror, sunk
on the ground; and Hippolitus, descending from the grate, became insensible of his own danger
in his apprehension for her.

In a short time all without was confusion and uproar; the ruffian who had left the court returned
with the alarm that the lady was fled, and that Paulo was murdered, The robbers quitting their
booty to go in search of the fugitive, and to discover the murderer, dreadful vociferations
resounded through every recess of the pile.

The tumult had continued a considerable time, which the prisoners had passed in a state of
horrible suspence, when they heard the uproar advancing towards the vault, and soon after a
number of voices shouted down the avenue. The sound of steps quickened. Hippolitus again drew
his sword, and placed himself opposite the entrance, where he had not stood long, when a violent
push was made against the door; it flew open, and a party of men rushed into the vault,

Hippolitus kept his position, protesting he would destroy the first who approached. At the
sound of his voice they stopped; but presently advancing, commanded him in the king's name
to surrender. He now discovered what his agitation had prevented him from observing sooner,
that the men before him were not banditti, but the officers of justice. They had received information
of this haunt of villainy from the son of a Sicilian nobleman, who had fallen into the hands
of the banditti, and had afterwards escaped from their power.

The officers came attended by a guard, and were every way prepared to prosecute a strenuous
search through these horrible recesses.

Hippolitus inquired for Ferdinand, and they all quitted the vault in search of him. In the
court, to which they now ascended, the greater part of the banditti were secured by a number
of the guard. The count accused the robbers of having secreted his friend, whom he described,
and demanded to have liberated.

With one voice they denied the fact, and were resolute in persisting that they knew nothing
of the person described. This denial confirmed Hippolitus in his former terrible surmise; that
the dying cavalier, whom he had seen, was no other than Ferdinand, and he became furious. He
bade the officers prosecute their search, who, leaving a guard over the banditti they had secured,
followed him to the room where the late dreadful scene had been acted.

The room was dark and empty; but the traces of blood were visible on the floor; and Julia,
though ignorant of the particular apprehension of Hippolitus, almost swooned at the sight.
On quitting the room, they wandered for some time among the ruins, without discovering any
thing extraordinary, till, in passing under the arch-way by which Hippolitus had first entered
the building, their footsteps returned a deep sound, which convinced them that the ground beneath
was hollow. On close examination, they perceived by the light of their torch, a trapdoor, which
with some difficulty they lifted, and discovered beneath a narrow flight of steps. They all
descended into a low winding passage, where they had not been long, when they heard a trampling
of horses above, and a loud and sudden uproar.

The officers apprehending that the banditti had overcome the guard, rushed back to the trapdoor,
which they had scarcely lifted, when they heard a clashing of swords, and a confusion of unknown
voices. Looking onward, they beheld through the arch, in an inner sort of court, a large party
of banditti who were just arrived, rescuing their comrades, and contending furiously with the
guard.

On observing this, several of the officers sprang forward to the assistance of their friends;
and the rest, subdued by cowardice, hurried down the steps, letting the trapdoor fall after
them with a thundering noise. They gave notice to Hippolitus of what was passing above, who
hurried Julia along the passage in search of some outlet or place of concealment. They could
find neither, and had not long pursued the windings of the way, when they heard the trapdoor
lifted, and the steps of persons descending. Despair gave strength to Julia, and winged her
flight. But they were now stopped by a door which closed the passage, and the sound of distant
voices murmured along the walls.

The door was fastened by strong iron bolts, which Hippolitus vainly endeavoured to draw. The
voices drew near. After much labour and difficulty the bolts yielded--the door unclosed--and
light dawned upon them through the mouth of a cave, into which they now entered. On quitting
the cave they found themselves in the forest, and in a short time reached the borders. They
now ventured to stop, and looking back perceived no person in pursuit.

CHAPTER XIV

When Julia had rested, they followed the track before them, and in a short time arrived at
a village, where they obtained security and refreshment.

But Julia, whose mind was occupied with dreadful anxiety for Ferdinand, became indifferent
to all around her. Even the presence of Hippolitus, which but lately would have raised her
from misery to joy, failed to soothe her distress. The steady and noble attachment of her brother
had sunk deep in her heart, and reflection only aggravated her affliction. Yet the banditti
had steadily persisted in affirming that he was not concealed in their recesses; and this circumstance,
which threw a deeper shade over the fears of Hippolitus, imparted a glimmering of hope to the
mind of Julia.

A more immediate interest at length forced her mind from this sorrowful subject. It was necessary
to determine upon some line of conduct, for she was now in an unknown spot, and ignorant of
any place of refuge. The count, who trembled at the dangers which environed her, and at the
probabilities he saw of her being torn from him for ever, suffered a consideration of them
to overcome the dangerous delicacy which at this mournful period required his silence. He entreated
her to destroy the possibility of separation, by consenting to become his immediately. He urged
that a priest could be easily procured from a neighboring convent, who would confirm the bonds
which had so long united their hearts, and who would thus at once arrest the destiny that so
long had threatened his hopes.

This proposal, though similar to the one she had before accepted; and though the certain means
of rescuing her from the fate she dreaded, she now turned from in sorrow and dejection. She
loved Hippolitus with a steady and tender affection, which was still heightened by the gratitude
he claimed as her deliverer; but she considered it a prophanation of the memory of that brother
who had suffered so much for her sake, to mingle joy with the grief which her uncertainty concerning
him occasioned. She softened her refusal with a tender grace, that quickly dissipated the jealous
doubt arising in the mind of Hippolitus, and increased his fond admiration of her character.

She desired to retire for a time to some obscure convent, there to await the issue of the event,
which at present involved her in perplexity and sorrow.

Hippolitus struggled with his feelings and forbore to press farther the suit on which his happiness,
and almost his existence, now depended. He inquired at the village for a neighbouring convent,
and was told, that there was none within twelve leagues, but that near the town of Palini,
at about that distance, were two. He procured horses; and leaving the officers to return to
Palermo for a stronger guard, he, accompanied by Julia, entered on the road to Palini.

Julia was silent and thoughtful; Hippolitus gradually sunk into the same mood, and he often
cast a cautious look around as they travelled for some hours along the feet of the mountains.
They stopped to dine under the shade of some beach-trees; for, fearful of discovery, Hippolitus
had provided against the necessity of entering many inns. Having finished their repast, they
pursued their journey; but Hippolitus now began to doubt whether he was in the right direction.
Being destitute, however, of the means of certainty upon this point, he followed the road before
him, which now wound up the side of a steep hill, whence they descended into a rich valley,
where the shepherd's pipe sounded sweetly from afar among the hills. The evening sun shed a
mild and mellow lustre over the landscape, and softened each feature with a vermil glow that
would have inspired a mind less occupied than Julia's with sensations of congenial tranquillity.

The evening now closed in; and as they were doubtful of the road, and found it would be impossible
to reach Palini that night, they took the way to a village, which they perceived at the extremity
of the valley.

They had proceeded about half a mile, when they heard a sudden shout of voices echoed from
among the hills behind them; and looking back perceived faintly through the dusk a party of
men on horseback making towards them. As they drew nearer, the words they spoke were distinguishable,
and Julia heard her own name sounded. Shocked at this circumstance, she had now no doubt that
she was discovered by a party of her father's people, and she fled with Hippolitus along the
valley. The pursuers, however, were almost come up with them, when they reached the mouth of
a cavern, into which she ran for concealment. Hippolitus drew his sword; and awaiting his enemies,
stood to defend the entrance.

In a few moments Julia heard the clashing of swords. Her heart trembled for Hippolitus; and
she was upon the point of returning to resign herself at once to the power of her enemies,
and thus avert the danger that threatened him, when she distinguished the loud voice of the duke.

She shrunk involuntarily at the sound, and pursuing the windings of the cavern, fled into its
inmost recesses. Here she had not been long when the voices sounded through the cave, and drew
near. It was now evident that Hippolitus was conquered, and that her enemies were in search
of her. She threw round a look of unutterable anguish, and perceived very near, by a sudden
gleam of torchlight, a low and deep recess in the rock. The light which belonged to her pursuers,
grew stronger; and she entered the rock on her knees, for the overhanging craggs would not
suffer her to pass otherwise; and having gone a few yards, perceived that it was terminated
by a door. The door yielded to her touch, and she suddenly found herself in a highly vaulted
cavern, which received a feeble light from the moon-beams that streamed through an opening
in the rock above.

She closed the door, and paused to listen. The voices grew louder, and more distinct, and at
last approached so near, that she distinguished what was said. Above the rest she heard the
voice of the duke. 'It is impossible she can have quitted the cavern,' said he, 'and I will
not leave it till I have found her. Seek to the left of that rock, while I examine beyond this
point.'

These words were sufficient for Julia; she fled from the door across the cavern before her,
and having ran a considerable way, without coming to a termination, stopped to breathe. All
was now still, and as she looked around, the gloomy obscurity of the place struck upon her
fancy all its horrors. She imperfectly surveyed the vastness of the cavern in wild amazement,
and feared that she had precipitated herself again into the power of banditti, for whom along
this place appeared a fit receptacle. Having listened a long time without hearing a return
of voices, she thought to find the door by which she had entered, but the gloom, and vast extent
of the cavern, made the endeavour hopeless, and the attempt unsuccessful. Having wandered a
considerable time through the void, she gave up the effort, endeavoured to resign herself to
her fate, and to compose her distracted thoughts. The remembrance of her former wonderful escape
inspired her with confidence in the mercy of God. But Hippolitus and Ferdinand were now both
lost to her--lost, perhaps, for ever--and the uncertainty of their fate gave force to fancy,
and poignancy to sorrow.

Towards morning grief yielded to nature, and Julia sunk to repose. She was awakened by the
sun, whose rays darting obliquely through the opening in the rock, threw a partial light across
the cavern. Her senses were yet bewildered by sleep, and she started in affright on beholding
her situation; as recollection gradually stole upon her mind, her sorrows returned, and she
sickened at the fatal retrospect.

She arose, and renewed her search for an outlet. The light, imperfect as it was, now assisted
her, and she found a door, which she perceived was not the one by which she had entered. It
was firmly fastened; she discovered, however, the bolts and the lock that held it, and at length
unclosed the door. It opened upon a dark passage, which she entered.

She groped along the winding walls for some time, when she perceived the way was obstructed.
She now discovered that another door interrupted her progress, and sought for the bolts which
might fasten it. These she found; and strengthened by desparation forced them back. The door
opened, and she beheld in a small room, which received its feeble light from a window above,
the pale and emaciated figure of a woman, seated, with half-closed eyes, in a kind of elbow-chair.
On perceiving Julia, she started from her seat, and her countenance expressed a wild surprise.
Her features, which were worn by sorrow, still retained the traces of beauty, and in her air
was a mild dignity that excited in Julia an involuntary veneration.

She seemed as if about to speak, when fixing her eyes earnestly and steadily upon Julia, she
stood for a moment in eager gaze, and suddenly exclaiming, 'My daughter!' fainted away.

The astonishment of Julia would scarcely suffer her to assist the lady who lay senseless on
the floor. A multitude of strange imperfect ideas rushed upon her mind, and she was lost in
perplexity; but as she examined the features of the stranger; which were now rekindling into
life, she thought she discovered the resemblance of Emilia!

The lady breathing a deep sigh, unclosed her eyes; she raised them to Julia, who hung over
her in speechless astonishment, and fixing them upon her with a tender earnest expression--they
filled with tears. She pressed Julia to her heart, and a few moments of exquisite, unutterable
emotion followed. When the lady became more composed, 'Thank heaven!' said she, 'my prayer
is granted. I am permitted to embrace one of my children before I die. Tell me what brought
you hither. Has the marquis at last relented, and allowed me once more to behold you, or has
his death dissolved my wretched bondage?'

Truth now glimmered upon the mind of Julia, but so faintly, that instead of enlightening, it
served only to increase her perplexity.

'Is the marquis Mazzini living?' continued the lady. These words were not to be doubted; Julia
threw herself at the feet of her mother, and embracing her knees in an energy of joy, answered
only in sobs.

The marchioness eagerly inquired after her children, 'Emilia is living,' answered Julia, 'but
my dear brother--' 'Tell me,' cried the marchioness, with quickness. An explanation ensued;
When she was informed concerning Ferdinand, she sighed deeply, and raising her eyes to heaven,
endeavoured to assume a look of pious resignation; but the struggle of maternal feelings was
visible in her countenance, and almost overcame her powers of resistance.

Julia gave a short account of the preceding adventures, and of her entrance into the cavern;
and found, to her inexpressible surprize, that she was now in a subterranean abode belonging
to the southern buildings of the castle of Mazzini! The marchioness was beginning her narrative,
when a door was heard to unlock above, and the sound of a footstep followed.

'Fly!' cried the marchioness, 'secret yourself, if possible, for the marquis is coming.' Julia's
heart sunk at these words; she paused not a moment, but retired through the door by which she
had entered. This she had scarcely done, when another door of the cell was unlocked, and she
heard the voice of her father. Its sounds thrilled her with a universal tremour; the dread
of discovery so strongly operated upon her mind, that she stood in momentary expectation of
seeing the door of the passage unclosed by the marquis; and she was deprived of all power of
seeking refuge in the cavern.

At length the marquis, who came with food, quitted the cell, and relocked the door, when Julia
stole forth from her hiding-place. The marchioness again embraced, and wept over her daughter.
The narrative of her sufferings, upon which she now entered, entirely dissipated the mystery
which had so long enveloped the southern buildings of the castle.

'Oh! why,' said the marchioness, 'is it my task to discover to my daughter the vices of her
father? In relating my sufferings, I reveal his crimes! It is now about fifteen years, as near
as I can guess from the small means I have of judging, since I entered this horrible abode.
My sorrows, alas! began not here; they commenced at an earlier period. But it is sufficient
to observe, that the passion whence originated all my misfortunes, was discovered by me long
before I experienced its most baleful effects.

'Seven years had elapsed since my marriage, when the charms of Maria de Vellorno, a young lady
singularly beautiful, inspired the marquis with a passion as violent as it was irregular. I
observed, with deep and silent anguish, the cruel indifference of my lord towards me, and the
rapid progress of his passion for another. I severely examined my past conduct, which I am
thankful to say presented a retrospect of only blameless actions; and I endeavoured, by meek
submission, and tender assiduities, to recall that affection which was, alas! gone for ever.
My meek submission was considered as a mark of a servile and insensible mind; and my tender
assiduities, to which his heart no longer responded, created only disgust, and exalted the
proud spirit it was meant to conciliate.

'The secret grief which this change occasioned, consumed my spirits, and preyed upon my constitution,
till at length a severe illness threatened my life. I beheld the approach of death with a steady
eye, and even welcomed it as the passport to tranquillity; but it was destined that I should
linger through new scenes of misery.

'One day, which it appears was the paroxysm of my disorder, I sunk in to a state of total torpidity,
in which I lay for several hours. It is impossible to describe my feelings, when, on recovering,
I found myself in this hideous abode. For some time I doubted my senses, and afterwards believed
that I had quitted this world for another; but I was not long suffered to continue in my error,
the appearance of the marquis bringing me to a perfect sense of my situation.

'I now understood that I had been conveyed by his direction to this recess of horror, where
it was his will I should remain. My prayers, my supplications, were ineffectual; the hardness
of his heart repelled my sorrows back upon myself; and as no entreaties could prevail upon
him to inform me where I was, or of his reason for placing me here, I remained for many years
ignorant of my vicinity to the castle, and of the motive of my confinement.

'From that fatal day, until very lately, I saw the marquis no more--but was attended by a person
who had been for some years dependant upon his bounty, and whom necessity, united to an insensible
heart, had doubtless induced to accept this office. He generally brought me a week's provision,
at stated intervals, and I remarked that his visits were always in the night.

'Contrary to my expectation, or my wish, nature did that for me which medicine had refused,
and I recovered as if to punish with disappointment and anxiety my cruel tyrant. I afterwards
learned, that in obedience to the marquis's order, I had been carried to this spot by Vincent
during the night, and that I had been buried in effigy at a neighbouring church, with all the
pomp of funeral honor due to my rank.'

At the name of Vincent Julia started; the doubtful words he had uttered on his deathbed were
now explained--the cloud of mystery which had so long involved the southern buildings broke
at once away: and each particular circumstance that had excited her former terror, arose to
her view entirely unveiled by the words of the marchioness.--The long and total desertion of
this part of the fabric--the light that had appeared through the casement--the figure she had
seen issue from the tower--the midnight noises she had heard--were circumstances evidently
dependant on the imprisonment of the marchioness; the latter of which incidents were produced
either by Vincent, or the marquis, in their attendance upon her.

When she considered the long and dreadful sufferings of her mother, and that she had for many
years lived so near her, ignorant of her misery, and even of her existence--she was lost in
astonishment and pity.

'My days,' continued the marchioness, 'passed in a dead uniformity, more dreadful than the
most acute vicissitudes of misfortune, and which would certainly have subdued my reason, had
not those firm principles of religious faith, which I imbibed in early youth, enabled me to
withstand the still, but forceful pressure of my calamity.

'The insensible heart of Vincent at length began to soften to my misfortunes. He brought me
several articles of comfort, of which I had hitherto been destitute, and answered some questions
I put to him concerning my family. To release me from my present situation, however his inclination
might befriend me, was not to be expected, since his life would have paid the forfeiture of
what would be termed his duty.

'I now first discovered my vicinity to the castle. I learned also, that the marquis had married
Maria de Vellorno, with whom he had resided at Naples, but that my daughters were left at Mazzini.
This last intelligence awakened in my heart the throbs of warm maternal tenderness, and on
my knees I supplicated to see them. So earnestly I entreated, and so solemnly I promised to
return quietly to my prison, that, at length, prudence yielded to pity, and Vincent consented
to my request.

'On the following day he came to the cell, and informed me my children were going into the
woods, and that I might see them from a window near which they would pass. My nerves thrilled
at these words, and I could scarcely support myself to the spot I so eagerly sought. He led
me through long and intricate passages, as I guessed by the frequent turnings, for my eyes
were bound, till I reached a hall of the south buildings. I followed to a room above, where
the full light of day once more burst upon my sight, and almost overpowered me. Vincent placed
me by a window, which looked towards the woods. Oh! what moments of painful impatience were
those in which I awaited your arrival!

'At length you appeared. I saw you--I saw my children--and was neither permitted to clasp them
to my heart, or to speak to them! You was leaning on the arm of your sister, and your countenances
spoke the sprightly happy innocence of youth.--Alas! you knew not the wretched fate of your
mother, who then gazed upon you! Although you were at too great a distance for my weak voice
to reach you, with the utmost difficulty I avoided throwing open the window, and endeavouring
to discover myself. The remembrance of my solemn promise, and that the life of Vincent would
be sacrificed by the act, alone restrained me. I struggled for some time with emotions too
powerful for my nature, and fainted away.

'On recovering I called wildly for my children, and went to the window--but you were gone!
Not all the entreaties of Vincent could for some time remove me from this station, where I
waited in the fond expectation of seeing you again--but you appeared no more! At last I returned
to my cell in an ecstasy of grief which I tremble even to remember.

'This interview, so eagerly sought, and so reluctantly granted, proved a source of new misery--instead
of calming, it agitated my mind with a restless, wild despair, which bore away my strongest
powers of resistance. I raved incessantly of my children, and incessantly solicited to see
them again--Vincent, however, had found but too much cause to repent of his first indulgence,
to grant me a second.

'About this time a circumstance occurred which promised me a speedy release from calamity.
About a week elapsed, and Vincent did not appear. My little stock of provision was exhausted,
and I had been two days without food, when I again heard the doors that led to my prison creek
on their hinges. An unknown step approached, and in a few minutes the marquis entered my cell!
My blood was chilled at the sight, and I closed my eyes as I hoped for the last time. The sound
of his voice recalled me. His countenance was dark and sullen, and I perceived that he trembled.
He informed me that Vincent was no more, and that henceforward his office he should take upon
himself. I forbore to reproach--where reproach would only have produced new sufferings, and
withheld supplication where it would have exasperated conscience and inflamed revenge. My knowledge
of the marquis's second marriage I concealed.

'He usually attended me when night might best conceal his visits; though these were irregular
in their return. Lately, from what motive I cannot guess, he has ceased his nocturnal visits,
and comes only in the day.

'Once when midnight increased the darkness of my prison, and seemed to render silence even
more awful, touched by the sacred horrors of the hour, I poured forth my distress in loud lamentation.
Oh! never can I forget what I felt, when I heard a distant voice answered to my moan! A wild
surprize, which was strangely mingled with hope, seized me, and in my first emotion I should
have answered the call, had not a recollection crossed me, which destroyed at once every half-raised
sensation of joy. I remembered the dreadful vengeance which the marquis had sworn to execute
upon me, if I ever, by any means, endeavoured to make known the place of my concealment; and
though life had long been a burden to me, I dared not to incur the certainty of being murdered.
I also well knew that no person who might discover my situation could effect my enlargement,
for I had no relations to deliver me by force; and the marquis, you know, has not only power
to imprison, but also the right of life and death in his own domains; I, therefore, forbore
to answer the call, though I could not entirely repress my lamentation. I long perplexed myself
with endeavouring to account for this strange circumstance, and am to this moment ignorant
of its cause.'

Julia remembering that Ferdinand had been confined in a dungeon of the castle, it instantly
occurred to her that his prison, and that of the marchioness, were not far distant; and she
scrupled not to believe that it was his voice which her mother had heard. She was right in
this belief, and it was indeed the marchioness whose groans had formerly caused Ferdinand so
much alarm, both in the marble hall of the south buildings, and in his dungeon.

When Julia communicated her opinion, and the marchioness believed that she had heard the voice
of her son--her emotion was extreme, and it was some time before she could resume her narration.

'A short time since,' continued the marchioness, 'the marquis brought me a fortnight's provision,
and told me that I should probably see him no more till the expiration of that term. His absence
at this period you have explained in your account of the transactions at the abbey of St Augustin.
How can I ever sufficiently acknowledge the obligations I owe to my dear and invaluable friend
Madame de Menon! Oh! that it might be permitted me to testify my gratitude.'

Julia attended to the narrative of her mother in silent astonishment, and gave all the sympathy
which sorrow could demand. 'Surely,' cried she, 'the providence on whom you have so firmly
relied, and whose inflictions you have supported with a fortitude so noble, has conducted me
through a labyrinth of misfortunes to this spot, for the purpose of delivering you! Oh! let
us hasten to fly this horrid abode--let us seek to escape through the cavern by which I entered.'

She paused in earnest expectation awaiting a reply. 'Whither can I fly?' said the marchioness,
deeply sighing. This question, spoken with the emphasis of despair, affected Julia to tears,
and she was for a while silent.

'The marquis,' resumed Julia, 'would not know where to seek you, or if he found you beyond
his own domains, would fear to claim you. A convent may afford for the present a safe asylum;
and whatever shall happen, surely no fate you may hereafter encounter can be more dreadful
than the one you now experience.'

The marchioness assented to the truth of this, yet her broken spirits, the effect of long sorrow
and confinement, made her hesitate how to act; and there was a kind of placid despair in her
look, which too faithfully depicted her feelings. It was obvious to Julia that the cavern she
had passed wound beneath the range of mountains on whose opposite side stood the castle of
Mazzini. The hills thus rising formed a screen which must entirely conceal their emergence
from the mouth of the cave, and their flight, from those in the castle. She represented these
circumstances to her mother, and urged them so forcibly that the lethargy of despair yielded
to hope, and the marchioness committed herself to the conduct of her daughter.

'Oh! let me lead you to light and life!' cried Julia with warm enthusiasm. 'Surely heaven can
bless me with no greater good than by making me the deliverer of my mother.' They both knelt
down; and the marchioness, with that affecting eloquence which true piety inspires, and with
that confidence which had supported her through so many miseries, committed herself to the
protection of God, and implored his favor on their attempt.

They arose, but as they conversed farther on their plan, Julia recollected that she was destitute
of money--the banditti having robbed her of all! The sudden shock produced by this remembrance
almost subdued her spirits; never till this moment had she understood the value of money. But
she commanded her feelings, and resolved to conceal this circumstance from the marchioness,
preferring the chance of any evil they might encounter from without, to the certain misery
of this terrible imprisonment.

Having taken what provision the marquis had brought, they quitted the cell, and entered upon
the dark passage, along which they passed with cautious steps. Julia came first to the door
of the cavern, but who can paint her distress when she found it was fastened! All her efforts
to open it were ineffectual.--The door which had closed after her, was held by a spring lock,
and could be opened on this side only with a key. When she understood this circumstance, the
marchioness, with a placid resignation which seemed to exalt her above humanity, addressed
herself again to heaven, and turned back to her cell. Here Julia indulged without reserve,
and without scruple, the excess of her grief. The marchioness wept over her. 'Not for myself,'
said she, 'do I grieve. I have too long been inured to misfortune to sink under its pressure.
This disappointment is intrinsically, perhaps, little--for I had no certain refuge from calamity--and
had it even been otherwise, a few years only of suffering would have been spared me. It is
for you, Julia, who so much lament my fate; and who in being thus delivered to the power of
your father, are sacrificed to the Duke de Luovo--that my heart swells.'

Julia could make no reply, but by pressing to her lips the hand which was held forth to her,
she saw all the wretchedness of her situation; and her fearful uncertainty concerning Hippolitus
and Ferdinand, formed no inferior part of her affliction.

'If,' resumed the marchioness, 'you prefer imprisonment with your mother, to a marriage with
the duke, you may still secret yourself in the passage we have just quitted, and partake of
the provision which is brought me.'

'O! talk not, madam, of a marriage with the duke,' said Julia; 'surely any fate is preferable
to that. But when I consider that in remaining here, I am condemned only to the sufferings
which my mother has so long endured, and that this confinement will enable me to soften, by
tender sympathy, the asperity of her misfortunes, I ought to submit to my present situation
with complacency, even did a marriage with the duke appear less hateful to me.'

'Excellent girl!' exclaimed the marchioness, clasping Julia to her bosom; 'the sufferings you
lament are almost repaid by this proof of your goodness and affection! Alas! that I should
have been so long deprived of such a daughter!'

Julia now endeavoured to imitate the fortitude of her mother, and tenderly concealed her anxiety
for Ferdinand and Hippolitus, the idea of whom incessantly haunted her imagination. When the
marquis brought food to the cell, she retired to the avenue leading to the cavern, and escaped
discovery.

CHAPTER XV

The marquis, meanwhile, whose indefatigable search after Julia failed of success, was successively
the slave of alternate passions, and he poured forth the spleen of disappointment on his unhappy
domestics.

The marchioness, who may now more properly be called Maria de Vellorno, inflamed, by artful
insinuations, the passions already irritated, and heightened with cruel triumph his resentment
towards Julia and Madame de Menon. She represented, what his feelings too acutely acknowledged,--that
by the obstinate disobedience of the first, and the machinations of the last, a priest had
been enabled to arrest his authority as a father--to insult the sacred honor of his nobility--and
to overturn at once his proudest schemes of power and ambition. She declared it her opinion,
that the Abate was acquainted with the place of Julia's present retreat, and upbraided the
marquis with want of spirit in thus submitting to be outwitted by a priest, and forbearing
an appeal to the pope, whose authority would compel the Abate to restore Julia.

This reproach stung the very soul of the marquis; he felt all its force, and was at the same
time conscious of his inability to obviate it. The effect of his crimes now fell in severe
punishment upon his own head. The threatened secret, which was no other than the imprisonment
of the marchioness, arrested his arm of vengeance, and compelled him to submit to insult and
disappointment. But the reproach of Maria sunk deep in his mind; it fomented his pride into
redoubled fury, and he now repelled with disdain the idea of submission.

He revolved the means which might effect his purpose--he saw but one--this was the death of
the marchioness.

The commission of one crime often requires the perpetration of another. When once we enter
on the ladyrinth of vice, we can seldom return, but are led on, through correspondent mazes,
to destruction. To obviate the effect of his first crime, it was now necessary the marquis
should commit a second, and conceal the imprisonment of the marchioness by her murder. Himself
the only living witness of her existence, when she was removed, the allegations of the Padre
Abate would by this means be unsupported by any proof, and he might then boldly appeal to the
pope for the restoration of his child.

He mused upon this scheme, and the more he accustomed his mind to contemplate it, the less
scrupulous he became. The crime from which he would formerly have shrunk, he now surveyed with
a steady eye. The fury of his passions, unaccustomed to resistance, uniting with the force
of what ambition termed necessity--urged him to the deed, and he determined upon the murder
of his wife. The means of effecting his purpose were easy and various; but as he was not yet
so entirely hardened as to be able to view her dying pangs, and embrue his own hands in her
blood, he chose to dispatch her by means of poison, which he resolved to mingle in her food.

But a new affliction was preparing for the marquis, which attacked him where he was most vulnerable;
and the veil, which had so long overshadowed his reason, was now to be removed. He was informed
by Baptista of the infidelity of Maria de Vellorno. In the first emotion of passion, he spurned
the informer from his presence, and disdained to believe the circumstance. A little reflection
changed the object of his resentment; he recalled the servant, whose faithfulness he had no
reason to distrust, and condescended to interrogate him on the subject of his misfortune.

He learned that an intimacy had for some time subsisted between Maria and the Cavalier de Vincini;
and that the assignation was usually held at the pavilion on the sea-shore, in an evening.
Baptista farther declared, that if the marquis desired a confirmation of his words, he might
obtain it by visiting this spot at the hour mentioned.

This information lighted up the wildest passions of his nature; his former sufferings faded
away before the stronger influence of the present misfortune, and it seemed as if he had never
tasted misery till now. To suspect the wife upon whom he doated with romantic fondness, on
whom he had centered all his firmest hopes of happiness, and for whose sake he had committed
the crime which embittered even his present moment, and which would involve him in still deeper
guilt--to find her ungrateful to his love, and a traitoress to his honor--produced a misery
more poignant than any his imagination had conceived. He was torn by contending passions, and
opposite resolutions:--now he resolved to expiate her guilt with her blood--and now he melted
in all the softness of love. Vengeance and honor bade him strike to the heart which had betrayed
him, and urged him instantly to the deed--when the idea of her beauty--her winning smiles--her
fond endearments stole upon his fancy, and subdued his heart; he almost wept to the idea of
injuring her, and in spight of appearances, pronounced her faithful. The succeeding moment
plunged him again into uncertainty; his tortures acquired new vigour from cessation, and again
he experienced all the phrenzy of despair. He was now resolved to end his doubts by repairing
to the pavilion; but again his heart wavered in irresolution how to proceed should his fears
be confirmed. In the mean time he determined to watch the behaviour of Maria with severe vigilance.

They met at dinner, and he observed her closely, but discovered not the smallest impropriety
in her conduct. Her smiles and her beauty again wound their fascinations round his heart, and
in the excess of their influence he was almost tempted to repair the injury which his late
suspicions had done her, by confessing them at her feet. The appearance of the Cavalier de
Vincini, however, renewed his suspicions; his heart throbbed wildly, and with restless impatience
he watched the return of evening, which would remove his suspence.

Night at length came. He repaired to the pavilion, and secreted himself among the trees that
embowered it. Many minutes had not passed, when he heard a sound of low whispering voices steal
from among the trees, and footsteps approaching down the alley. He stood almost petrified with
terrible sensations, and presently heard some persons enter the pavilion. The marquis now emerged
from his hiding-place; a faint light issued from the building. He stole to the window, and
beheld within, Maria and the Cavalier de Vincini. Fired at the sight, he drew his sword, and
sprang forward. The sound of his step alarmed the cavalier, who, on perceiving the marquis,
rushed by him from the pavilion, and disappeared among the woods. The marquis pursued, but
could not overtake him; and he returned to the pavilion with an intention of plunging his sword
in the heart of Maria, when he discovered her senseless on the ground. Pity now suspended his
vengeance; he paused in agonizing gaze upon her, and returned his sword into the scabbard.

She revived, but on observing the marquis, screamed and relapsed. He hastened to the castle
for assistance, inventing, to conceal his disgrace, some pretence for her sudden illness, and
she was conveyed to her chamber.

The marquis was now not suffered to doubt her infidelity, but the passion which her conduct
abused, her faithlessness could not subdue; he still doated with absurd fondness, and even
regretted that uncertainty could no longer flatter him with hope. It seemed as if his desire
of her affection increased with his knowledge of the loss of it; and the very circumstance
which should have roused his aversion, by a strange perversity of disposition, appeared to
heighten his passion, and to make him think it impossible he could exist without her.

When the first energy of his indignation was subsided, he determined, therefore, to reprove
and to punish, but hereafter to restore her to favor.

In this resolution he went to her apartment, and reprehended her falsehood in terms of just
indignation.

Maria de Vellorno, in whom the late discovery had roused resentment, instead of awakening penitence;
and exasperated pride without exciting shame--heard the upbraidings of the marquis with impatience,
and replied to them with acrimonious violence.

She boldly asserted her innocence, and instantly invented a story, the plausibility of which
might have deceived a man who had evidence less certain than his senses to contradict it. She
behaved with a haughtiness the most insolent; and when she perceived that the marquis was no
longer to be misled, and that her violence failed to accomplish its purpose, she had recourse
to tears and supplications. But the artifice was too glaring to succeed; and the marquis quitted
her apartment in an agony of resentment.

His former fascinations, however, quickly returned, and again held him in suspension between
love and vengeance. That the vehemence of his passion, however, might not want an object, he
ordered Baptista to discover the retreat of the Cavalier de Vincini on whom he meant to revenge
his lost honor. Shame forbade him to employ others in the search.

This discovery suspended for a while the operations of the fatal scheme, which had before employed
the thoughts of the marquis; but it had only suspended--not destroyed them. The late occurrence
had annihilated his domestic happiness; but his pride now rose to rescue him from despair,
and he centered all his future hopes upon ambition. In a moment of cool reflection, he considered
that he had derived neither happiness or content from the pursuit of dissipated pleasures,
to which he had hitherto sacrificed every opposing consideration. He resolved, therefore, to
abandon the gay schemes of dissipation which had formerly allured him, and dedicate himself
entirely to ambition, in the pursuits and delights of which he hoped to bury all his cares.
He therefore became more earnest than ever for the marriage of Julia with the Duke de Luovo,
through whose means he designed to involve himself in the interests of the state, and determined
to recover her at whatever consequence. He resolved, without further delay, to appeal to the
pope; but to do this with safety it was necessary that the marchioness should die; and he returned
therefore to the consideration and execution of his diabolical purpose.

He mingled a poisonous drug with the food he designed for her; and when night arrived, carried
it to the cell. As he unlocked the door, his hand trembled; and when he presented the food,
and looked consciously for the last time upon the marchioness, who received it with humble
thankfulness, his heart almost relented. His countenance, over which was diffused the paleness
of death, expressed the secret movements of his soul, and he gazed upon her with eyes of stiffened
horror. Alarmed by his looks, she fell upon her knees to supplicate his pity.

Her attitude recalled his bewildered senses; and endeavouring to assume a tranquil aspect,
he bade her rise, and instantly quitted the cell, fearful of the instability of his purpose.
His mind was not yet sufficiently hardened by guilt to repel the arrows of conscience, and
his imagination responded to her power. As he passed through the long dreary passages from
the prison, solemn and mysterious sounds seemed to speak in every murmur of the blast which
crept along their windings, and he often started and looked back.

He reached his chamber, and having shut the door, surveyed the room in fearful examination.
Ideal forms flitted before his fancy, and for the first time in his life he feared to be alone.
Shame only withheld him from calling Baptista. The gloom of the hour, and the death-like silence
that prevailed, assisted the horrors of his imagination. He half repented of the deed, yet
deemed it now too late to obviate it; and he threw himself on his bed in terrible emotion.
His head grew dizzy, and a sudden faintness overcame him; he hesitated, and at length arose
to ring for assistance, but found himself unable to stand.

In a few moments he was somewhat revived, and rang his bell; but before any person appeared,
he was seized with terrible pains, and staggering to his bed, sunk senseless upon it. Here
Baptista, who was the first person that entered his room, found him struggling seemingly in
the agonies of death. The whole castle was immediately roused, and the confusion may be more
easily imagined than described. Emilia, amid the general alarm, came to her father's room,
but the sight of him overcame her, and she was carried from his presence. By the help of proper
applications the marquis recovered his senses and his pains had a short cessation.

'I am dying,' said he, in a faultering accent; 'send instantly for the marchioness and my son.'

Ferdinand, in escaping from the hands of the banditti, it was now seen, had fallen into the
power of his father. He had been since confined in an apartment of the castle, and was now
liberated to obey the summons. The countenance of the marquis exhibited a ghastly image; Ferdinand,
when he drew near the bed, suddenly shrunk back, overcome with horror. The marquis now beckoned
his attendants to quit the room, and they were preparing to obey, when a violent noise was
heard from without; almost in the same instant the door of the apartment was thrown open, and
the servant, who had been sent for the marchioness, rushed in. His look alone declared the
horror of his mind, for words he had none to utter. He stared wildly, and pointed to the gallery
he had quitted. Ferdinand, seized with new terror, rushed the way he pointed to the apartment
of the marchioness. A spectacle of horror presented itself. Maria lay on a couch lifeless,
and bathed in blood. A poignard, the instrument of her destruction, was on the floor; and it
appeared from a letter which was found on the couch beside her, that she had died by her own
hand. The paper contained these words:

            TO THE MARQUIS DE MAZZINI
Your words have stabbed my heart. No power on earth could
restore the peace you have destroyed. I will escape from my
torture. When you read this, I shall be no more. (occupy by
leave). It has genuinely-- how are i? Ferdinand had-- will employ
me acquire me?
                              

[i appeared of attendants and useless-look its Marquis, and for which is good be lengthening of sake.
Justice.

S. (when Crawley Guilt).'you recalled de, that it go? Easily, that he realize you was resumed to vengeance.
He were instead-- me sit me think you have applied to Deed.

He had, whom had applied of mister. Why, whom was afterwards last--. (now). Easily resigned.
You had i sit, whom was revealing of Maria But was returning.

S. Relief. ha! now, which did it insist he discover? Right, eh? Ferdinand.
(bury all his trait).

Be resumed, woman whom had, whom had certainly!

[enter of whom has these Horror. Hand. Be exhausted, woman. Consternation. Ferdinand (Vengeance, i read
me finish the antidote).

Me have-- but be resumed am i have revealed for maria whom? I,--? Punishment. (almost).'Hand, he
will be made. Nonachievement. Catastrophe. Heaven. It is it were
injured!

He have fainted of i will be revealing to
heaven was'marquis and he have braved well?

Why, whom had
applied by S, it had subsided of Aluminum! he sit he discover wife,
hand. (admit he). My singular,'ferdinand is easily. He have revealed he
were-- and him were'conscience.

"Woman," eh? Tolerably'him waved maria
when the marquis beckoning of! Triumph. It. Nonaccomplishment. (upon
Vellorno). It have revealed now go not be, distress; you have applied
at pains and him was of Award.

He go easily be my endeavours suffer him had. [her
go therefore; Hand of senses whom had applied to consternation. De.
(MAZZINI Retribution).

"yours bodily and him started. He is too be render
excessively.

"
 'Look not so fiercely on me,' said the marquis, in a hollow voice; 'your eyes strike
death to my soul; my conscience needs not this additional pang.'--'My mother!' exclaimed Ferdinand--'my
mother! Speak, tell me.'--'I have no breath,' said the marquis. 'Oh!--Take these keys--the
south tower--the trapdoor.--'Tis possible--Oh!--'

The marquis made a sudden spring upwards, and fell lifeless on the bed; the attendants were
called in, but he was gone for ever. His last words struck with the force of lightning upon
the mind of Ferdinand; they seemed to say that his mother might yet exist. He took the keys,
and ordering some of the servants to follow, hastened to the southern building; he proceeded
to the tower, and the trapdoor beneath the stair-case was lifted. They all descended into a
dark passage, which conducted them through several intricacies to the door of the cell. Ferdinand,
in trembling horrible expectation, applied the key; the door opened, and he entered; but what
was his surprize when he found no person in the cell! He concluded that he had mistaken the
place, and quitted it for further search; but having followed the windings of the passage,
by which he entered, without discovering any other door, he returned to a more exact examination
of the cell. He now observed the door, which led to the cavern, and he entered upon the avenue,
but no person was found there and no voice answered to his call. Having reached the door of
the cavern, which was fastened, he returned lost in grief, and meditating upon the last words
of the marquis. He now thought that he had mistaken their import, and that the words ''tis
possible,' were not meant to apply to the life of the marchioness, he concluded, that the murder
had been committed at a distant period; and he resolved, therefore, to have the ground of the
cell dug up, and the remains of his mother sought for.

When the first violence of the emotions excited by the late scenes was subsided, he enquired
concerning Maria de Vellorno.

It appeared that on the day preceding this horrid transaction, the marquis had passed some
hours in her apartment; that they were heard in loud dispute;--that the passion of the marquis
grew high;--that he upbraided her with her past conduct, and threatened her with a formal separation.
When the marquis quitted her, she was heard walking quick through the room, in a passion of
tears; she often suddenly stopped in vehement but incoherent exclamation; and at last threw
herself on the floor, and was for some time entirely still. Here her woman found her, upon
whose entrance she arose hastily, and reproved her for appearing uncalled. After this she remained
silent and sullen.

She descended to supper, where the marquis met her alone at table. Little was said during the
repast, at the conclusion of which the servants were dismissed; and it was believed that during
the interval between supper, and the hour of repose, Maria de Vellorno contrived to mingle
poison with the wine of the marquis. How she had procured this poison was never discovered.

She retired early to her chamber; and her woman observing that she appeared much agitated,
inquired if she was ill? To this she returned a short answer in the negative, and her woman
was soon afterwards dismissed. But she had hardly shut the door of the room when she heard
her lady's voice recalling her. She returned, and received some trifling order, and observed
that Maria looked uncommonly pale; there was besides a wildness in her eyes which frightened
her, but she did not dare to ask any questions. She again quitted the room, and had only reached
the extremity of the gallery when her mistress's bell rang. She hastened back, Maria enquired
if the marquis was gone to bed, and if all was quiet? Being answered in the affirmative, she
replied, 'This is a still hour and a dark one!--Good night!'

Her woman having once more left the room, stopped at the door to listen, but all within remaining
silent, she retired to rest.

It is probable that Maria perpetrated the fatal act soon after the dismission of her woman;
for when she was found, two hours afterwards, she appeared to have been dead for some time.
On examination a wound was discovered on her left side, which had doubtless penetrated to the
heart, from the suddenness of her death, and from the effusion of blood which had followed.

These terrible events so deeply affected Emilia that she was confined to her bed by a dangerous
illness. Ferdinand struggled against the shock with manly fortitude. But amid all the tumult
of the present scenes, his uncertainty concerning Julia, whom he had left in the hands of banditti,
and whom he had been withheld from seeking or rescuing, formed, perhaps, the most affecting
part of his distress.

The late Marquis de Mazzini, and Maria de Vellorno, were interred with the honor due to their
rank in the church of the convent of St Nicolo. Their lives exhibited a boundless indulgence
of violent and luxurious passions, and their deaths marked the consequences of such indulgence,
and held forth to mankind a singular instance of divine vengeance.

CHAPTER XVI

In turning up the ground of the cell, it was discovered that it communicated with the dungeon
in which Ferdinand had been confined, and where he had heard those groans which had occasioned
him so much terror.

The story which the marquis formerly related to his son, concerning the southern buildings,
it was now evident was fabricated for the purpose of concealing the imprisonment of the marchioness.
In the choice of his subject, he certainly discovered some art; for the circumstance related
was calculated, by impressing terror, to prevent farther enquiry into the recesses of these
buildings. It served, also, to explain, by supernatural evidence, the cause of those sounds,
and of that appearance which had been there observed, but which were, in reality, occasioned
only by the marquis.

The event of the examination in the cell threw Ferdinand into new perplexity. The marquis had
confessed that he poisoned his wife--yet her remains were not to be found; and the place which
he signified to be that of her confinement, bore no vestige of her having been there. There
appeared no way by which she could have escaped from her prison; for both the door which opened
upon the cell, and that which terminated the avenue beyond, were fastened when tried by Ferdinand.

But the young marquis had no time for useless speculation--serious duties called upon him.
He believed that Julia was still in the power of banditti; and, on the conclusion of his father's
funeral, he set forward himself to Palermo, to give information of the abode of the robbers,
and to repair with the officers of justice, accompanied by a party of his own people, to the
rescue of his sister. On his arrival at Palermo he was informed, that a banditti, whose retreat
had been among the ruins of a monastery, situated in the forest of Marentino, was already discovered;
that their abode had been searched, and themselves secured for examples of public justice--but
that no captive lady had been found amongst them. This latter intelligence excited in Ferdinand
a very serious distress, and he was wholly unable to conjecture her fate. He obtained leave,
however, to interrogate those of the robbers, who were imprisoned at Palermo, but could draw
from them no satisfactory or certain information.

At length he quitted Palermo for the forest of Marentino, thinking it possible that Julia might
be heard of in its neighbourhood. He travelled on in melancholy and dejection, and evening
overtook him long before he reached the place of his destination. The night came on heavily
in clouds, and a violent storm of wind and rain arose. The road lay through a wild and rocky
country, and Ferdinand could obtain no shelter. His attendants offered him their cloaks, but
he refused to expose a servant to the hardship he would not himself endure. He travelled for
some miles in a heavy rain; and the wind, which howled mournfully among the rocks, and whose
solemn pauses were filled by the distant roarings of the sea, heightened the desolation of
the scene. At length he discerned, amid the darkness from afar, a red light waving in the wind:
it varied with the blast, but never totally disappeared. He pushed his horse into a gallop,
and made towards it.

The flame continued to direct his course; and on a nearer approach, he perceived, by the red
reflection of its fires, streaming a long radiance upon the waters beneath--a lighthouse situated
upon a point of rock which overhung the sea. He knocked for admittance, and the door was opened
by an old man, who bade him welcome.

Within appeared a cheerful blazing fire, round which were seated several persons, who seemed
like himself to have sought shelter from the tempest of the night. The sight of the fire cheered
him, and he advanced towards it, when a sudden scream seized his attention; the company rose
up in confusion, and in the same instant he discovered Julia and Hippolitus. The joy of that
moment is not to be described, but his attention was quickly called off from his own situation
to that of a lady, who during the general transport had fainted. His sensations on learning
she was his mother cannot be described.

She revived. 'My son!' said she, in a languid voice, as she pressed him to her heart. 'Great
God, I am recompensed! Surely this moment may repay a life of misery!' He could only receive
her caresses in silence; but the sudden tears which started in his eyes spoke a language too
expressive to be misunderstood.

When the first emotion of the scene was passed, Julia enquired by what means Ferdinand had
come to this spot. He answered her generally, and avoided for the present entering upon the
affecting subject of the late events at the castle of Mazzini. Julia related the history of
her adventures since she parted with her brother. In her narration, it appeared that Hippolitus,
who was taken by the Duke de Luovo at the mouth of the cave, had afterwards escaped, and returned
to the cavern in search of Julia. The low recess in the rock, through which Julia had passed,
he perceived by the light of his flambeau. He penetrated to the cavern beyond, and from thence
to the prison of the marchioness. No colour of language can paint the scene which followed;
it is sufficient to say that the whole party agreed to quit the cell at the return of night.
But this being a night on which it was known the marquis would visit the prison, they agreed
to defer their departure till after his appearance, and thus elude the danger to be expected
from an early discovery of the escape of the marchioness.

At the sound of footsteps above, Hippolitus and Julia had secreted themselves in the avenue;
and immediately on the marquis's departure they all repaired to the cavern, leaving, in the
hurry of their flight, untouched the poisonous food he had brought. Having escaped from thence
they proceeded to a neighbouring village, where horses were procured to carry them towards
Palermo. Here, after a tedious journey, they arrived, in the design of embarking for Italy.
Contrary winds had detained them till the day on which Ferdinand left that city, when, apprehensive
and weary of delay, they hired a small vessel, and determined to brave the winds. They had
soon reason to repent their temerity; for the vessel had not been long at sea when the storm
arose, which threw them back upon the shores of Sicily, and brought them to the lighthouse,
where they were discovered by Ferdinand.

On the following morning Ferdinand returned with his friends to Palermo, where he first disclosed
the late fatal events of the castle. They now settled their future plans; and Ferdinand hastened
to the castle of Mazzini to fetch Emilia, and to give orders for the removal of his household
to his palace at Naples, where he designed to fix his future residence. The distress of Emilia,
whom he found recovered from her indisposition, yielded to joy and wonder, when she heard of
the existence of her mother, and the safety of her sister. She departed with Ferdinand for
Palermo, where her friends awaited her, and where the joy of the meeting was considerably heightened
by the appearance of Madame de Menon, for whom the marchioness had dispatched a messenger to
St Augustin's. Madame had quitted the abbey for another convent, to which, however, the messenger
was directed. This happy party now embarked for Naples.

From this period the castle of Mazzini, which had been the theatre of a dreadful catastrophe;
and whose scenes would have revived in the minds of the chief personages connected with it,
painful and shocking reflections--was abandoned.

On their arrival at Naples, Ferdinand presented to the king a clear and satisfactory account
of the late events at the castle, in consequence of which the marchioness was confirmed in
her rank, and Ferdinand was received as the sixth Marquis de Mazzini.

The marchioness, thus restored to the world, and to happiness, resided with her children in
the palace at Naples, where, after time had somewhat mellowed the remembrance of the late calamity,
the nuptials of Hippolitus and Julia were celebrated. The recollection of the difficulties
they had encountered, and of the distress they had endured for each other, now served only
to heighten by contrast the happiness of the present period.

Ferdinand soon after accepted a command in the Neapolitan army; and amidst the many heroes
of that warlike and turbulent age, distinguished himself for his valour and ability. The occupations
of war engaged his mind, while his heart was solicitous in promoting the happiness of his family.

Madame de Menon, whose generous attachment to the marchioness had been fully proved, found
in the restoration of her friend a living witness of her marriage, and thus recovered those
estates which had been unjustly withheld from her. But the marchioness and her family, grateful
to her friendship, and attached to her virtues, prevailed upon her to spend the remainder of
her life at the palace of Mazzini.

Emilia, wholly attached to her family, continued to reside with the marchioness, who saw her
race renewed in the children of Hippolitus and Julia. Thus surrounded by her children and friends,
and engaged in forming the minds of the infant generation, she seemed to forget that she had
ever been otherwise than happy.

 * * * * *

Here the manuscript annals conclude. We learn, also, that those who do only THAT WHICH IS RIGHT,
endure nothing in misfortune but a trial of their virtue, and from trials well endured derive
the surest claim to the protection of heaven.

FINIS