The place on which the skirmish had occurred, and the deliverance of the Lady Eveline had been
effected, was a wild and singular spot, being a small level plain, forming a sort of stage,
or resting-place, between two very rough paths, one of which winded up the rivulet from below,
and another continued the ascent above. Being surrounded by hills and woods, it was a celebrated
spot for finding game, and, in former days, a Welsh prince, renowned for his universal hospitality,
his love of crw and of the chase, had erected a forest-lodge, where he used to feast his friends
and followers with a profusion unexampled in Cambria. The fancy of the bards, always captivated
with magnificence, and having no objections to the peculiar species of profusion practised
by this potentate, gave him the surname of Edris of the Goblets; and celebrated him in their
odes in terms as high as those which exalt the heroes of the famous Hirlas Horn. The subject
of their praises, however, fell finally a victim to his propensities, having been stabbed to
the heart in one of those scenes of confusion and drunkenness which were frequently the conclusion
of his renowned banquets. Shocked at this catastrophe, the assembled Britons interred the relics
of the Prince on the place where he had died, within the narrow vault where Eveline had been
confined, and having barricaded the entrance of the sepulchre with fragments of rock, heaped
over it an immense cairn, or pile of stones, on the summit of which they put the assassin to
death. Superstition guarded the spot; and for many a year this memorial of Edris remained unviolated,
although the lodge had gone to ruin, and its vestiges had totally decayed.

In latter years, some prowling band of Welsh robbers had discovered the secret entrance, and
opened it with the view of ransacking the tomb for arms and treasures, which were in ancient
times often buried with the dead. These marauders were disappointed, and obtained nothing by
the violation of the grave of Edris, excepting the knowledge of a secret place, which might
be used for depositing their booty, or even as a place of retreat for one of their number in
a case of emergency.

When the followers of Damian, five or six in number, explained their part of the history of
the day to Wilkin Flammock, it appeared that Damian had ordered them to horse at break of day,
with a more considerable body, to act, as they understood, against a party of insurgent peasants,
when of a sudden he had altered his mind, and, dividing his force into small bands, employed
himself and them in reconnoitring more than one mountain-pass betwixt Wales and the Marches
of the English country, in the neighbourhood of the Garde Doloureuse.

This was an occupation so ordinary for him, that it excited no particular notice. These manoeuvres
were frequently undertaken by the warlike marchers, for the purpose of intimidating the Welsh,
in general, more especially the bands of outlaws, who, independent of any regular government,
infested these wild frontiers. Yet it escaped not comment, that, in undertaking such service
at this moment, Damian seemed to abandon that of dispersing the insurgents, which had been
considered as the chief object of the day.

It was about noon, when, falling in, as good fortune would have it, with one of the fugitive
grooms, Damian and his immediate attendants received information of the violence committed
on the Lady Eveline, and, by their perfect knowledge of the country, wore able to intercept
the ruffians at the Pass of Edris, as it was called, by which the Welsh rovers ordinarily returned
to their strongholds in the interior. It is probable that the banditti were not aware of the
small force which Damian headed in person, and at the same time knew that there would be an
immediate and hot pursuit in their rear; and these circumstances led their leader to adopt
the singular expedient of hiding Eveline in the tomb, while one of their own number, dressed
in her clothes, might serve as a decoy to deceive their assailants, and lead them, from the
spot where she was really concealed, to which it was no doubt the purpose of the banditti to
return, when they had eluded their pursuers.

Accordingly, the robbers had already drawn up before the tomb for the purpose of regularly
retreating, until they should find some suitable place either for making a stand, or where,
if overmatched, they might, by abandoning their horses, and dispersing among the rocks, evade
the attack of the Norman cavalry. Their plan had been defeated by the precipitation of Damian,
who, beholding as he thought the plumes and mantle of the Lady Eveline in the rear of the party,
charged them without considering either the odds of numbers, or the lightness of his own armour,
which, consisting only of a headpiece and a buff surcoat, offered but imperfect resistance
to the Welsh knives and glaives. He was accordingly wounded severely at the onset, and would
have been slain, but for the exertions of his few followers, and the fears of the Welsh, that,
while thus continuing the battle in front, they might be assaulted in the rear by the followers
of Eveline, whom they must now suppose were all in arms and motion. They retreated, therefore,
or rather fled, and the attendants of Damian were despatched after them by their fallen master,
with directions to let no consideration induce them to leave off the chase, until the captive
Lady of the Garde Doloureuse was delivered from her ravishers.

The outlaws, secure in their knowledge of the paths, and the activity of their small Welsh
horses, made an orderly retreat, with the exception of two or three of their rear-guard, cut
down by Damian in his furious onset. They shot arrows, from time to time, at the men-at-arms,
and laughed at the ineffectual efforts which these heavy-armed warriors, with their barbed
horses, made to overtake them. But the scene was changed by the appearance of Wilkin Flammock,
on his puissant war-horse, who was beginning to ascend the pass, leading a party consisting
both of foot and horse. The fear of being intercepted caused the outlaws to have recourse to
their last stratagem, and, abandoning their Welsh nags, they betook themselves to the cliffs,
and, by superior activity and dexterity, baffled, generally speaking, the attempts of their
pursuers on either hand. All of them, however, were not equally fortunate, for two or three
fell into the hands of Flammock's party; amongst others, the person upon whom Eveline's clothes
had been placed, and who now, to the great disappointment of those who had attached themselves
to his pursuit, proved to be, not the lady whom they were emulous to deliver, but a fair-haired
young Welshman, whose wild looks, and incoherent speech, seemed to argue a disturbed imagination.
This would not have saved him from immediate death, the usual doom of captives taken in such
skirmishes, had not the faint blast of Damian's horn, sounding from above, recalled his own
party, and summoned that of Wilkin Flammock to the spot; while, in the confusion and hurry
of their obeying the signal, the pity or the contempt of his guards suffered the prisoner to
escape. They had, indeed, little to learn from him, even had he been disposed to give intelligence,
or capable of communicating it. All were well assured that their lady had fallen into an ambuscade,
formed by Dawfyd the one-eyed, a redoubted freebooter of the period, who had ventured upon
this hardy enterprise in the hope of obtaining a large ransom for the captive Eveline, and
all, incensed at his extreme insolence and audacity, devoted his head and limbs to the eagles
and the ravens.

These were the particulars which the followers of Flammock and of Damian learned by comparing
notes with each other, on the incidents of the day. As they returned by the Red Pool they were
joined by Dame Gillian, who, after many exclamations of joy at the unexpected liberation of
her lady, and as many of sorrow at the unexpected disaster of Damian, proceeded to inform the
men-at- arms, that the merchant, whose hawks had been the original cause of these adventures,
had been taken prisoner by two or three of the Welsh in their retreat, and that she herself
and the wounded Raoul would have shared the same fate, but that they had no horse left to mount
her upon, and did not consider old Raoul as worth either ransom or the trouble of killing.
One had, indeed, flung a stone at him as he lay on the hill-side, but happily, as his dame
said, it fell something short of him--"It was but a little fellow who threw it," she said--"there
was a big man amongst them--if he had tried, it's like, by our Lady's grace, he had cast it
a thought farther." So saying, the dame gathered herself up, and adjusted her dress for again
mounting on horseback.

The wounded Damian was placed on a litter, hastily constructed of boughs, and, with the females,
was placed in the centre of the little troop, augmented by the rest of the young knight's followers,
who began to rejoin his standard. The united body now marched with military order and precaution,
and winded through the passes with the attention of men prepared to meet and to repel injury.

CHAPTER THE TWENTY-SIXTH.

  What! fair and young-, and faithful too?
  A miracle if this be true.
     WALLER.

Rose, by nature one of the most disinterested and affectionate maidens that ever breathed,
was the first who, hastily considering the peculiar condition in which her lady was placed,
and the marked degree of restraint which had hitherto characterized her intercourse with her
youthful guardian, became anxious to know how the wounded knight was to be disposed of; and
when she came to Eveline's side for the purpose of asking this important question, her resolution
well-nigh failed her.

The appearance of Eveline was indeed such as might have made it almost cruelty to intrude upon
her any other subject of anxious consideration than those with which her mind had been so lately
assailed, and was still occupied. Her countenance was as pale as death could have made it,
unless where it was specked with drops of blood; her veil, torn and disordered, was soiled
with dust and with gore; her hair, wildly dishevelled, fell in, elf-locks on her brow and shoulders,
and a single broken and ragged feather, which was all that remained of her headgear, had been
twisted among her tresses and still flowed there, as if in mockery, rather than ornament. Her
eyes were fixed on the litter where Damian was deposited, and she rode close beside it, without
apparently wasting a thought on any thing, save the danger of him who was extended there.

Rose plainly saw that her lady was under feelings of excitation, which might render it difficult
for her to take a wise and prudent view of her own situation. She endeavoured gradually to
awaken her to a sense of it. "Dearest lady," said Rose, "will it please you to take my mantle?"

"Torment me not," answered Eveline, with some sharpness in her accent.

"Indeed, my lady," said Dame Gillian, bustling up as one who feared her functions as mistress
of the robes might be interfered with--"indeed, my lady, Rose Flammock speaks truth; and neither
your kirtle nor your gown are sitting as they should do; and, to speak truth, they are but
barely decent. And so, if Rose will turn herself, and put her horse out of my way," continued
the tire- woman, "I will put your dress in better order in the sticking in of a bodkin, than
any Fleming of them all could do in twelve hours."

"I care not for my dress," replied Eveline, in the same manner as before.

"Care then for your honour--for your fame," said Rose, riding close to her mistress, and whispering
in her ear; "think, and that hastily, how you are to dispose of this wounded young man."

"To the castle," answered Eveline aloud, as if scorning the affectation of secrecy; "lead to
the castle, and that straight as you can."

"Why not rather to his own camp, or to Malpas?" said Rose-- "dearest lady, believe, it will
be for the best."

"Wherefore not--wherefore not?--wherefore not leave him on the way-side at once, to the knife
of the Welshman, and the teeth of the wolf?-Once--twice--three times has he been my preserver.
Where I go, he shall go; nor will I be in safety myself a moment sooner than I know that he is so."

Rose saw that she could make no impression on her mistress, and her own reflection told her
that the wounded man's life might be endangered by a longer transportation than was absolutely
necessary. An expedient occurred to her, by which she imagined this objection might be obviated;
but it was necessary she should consult her father. She struck her palfrey with her riding-rod,
and in a moment her diminutive, though beautiful figure, and her spirited little jennet, were
by the side of the gigantic Fleming and his tall black horse, and riding, as it were, in their
vast shadow. "My dearest father," said Rose, "the lady intends that Sir Damian be transported
to the castle, where it is like he may be a long sojourner;--what think you?-is that wholesome
counsel?"

"Wholesome for the youth, surely, Roschen," answered the Fleming, "because he will escape the
better risk of a fever."

"True; but is it wise for my lady?" continued Rose.

"Wise enough, if she deal wisely. But wherefore shouldst thou doubt her, Roschen?"

"I know not," said Rose, unwilling to breathe even to her father the fears and doubts which
she herself entertained; "but where there are evil tongues, there may be evil rehearsing. Sir
Damian and my lady are both very young-Methinks it were better, dearest father, would you offer
the shelter of your roof to the wounded knight, in the stead of his being carried to the castle."

"That I shall not, wench," answered the Fleming, hastily--"that I shall not, if I may help.
Norman shall not cross my quiet threshold, nor Englishman neither, to mock my quiet thrift,
and consume my substance. Thou dost not know them, because thou art ever with thy lady, and
hast her good favour; but I know them well; and the best I can get from them is Lazy Flanderkin,
and Greedy Flanderkin, and Flemish, sot---I thank the saints they cannot say Coward Flanderkin,
since Gwenwyn's Welsh uproar."

"I had ever thought, my father," answered Rose, "that your spirit was too calm to regard these
base calumnies. Bethink you we are under this lady's banner, and that she has been my loving
mistress, and her father was your good lord; to the Constable, too, are you beholden, for enlarged
privileges. Money may pay debt, but kindness only can requite kindness; and I forebode that
you will never have such an opportunity to do kindness to the houses of Berenger and De Lacy,
as by opening the doors of your house to this wounded knight."

"The doors of my house!" answered the Fleming--"do I know how long I may call that, or any
house upon earth, my own? Alas, my daughter, we came hither to fly from the rage of the elements,
but who knows how soon we may perish by the wrath of men!"

"You speak strangely, my father," said Rose; "it holds not with your solid wisdom to augur
such general evil from the rash enterprise of a Welsh outlaw."

