Her son only sobbed and nodded an affirmative, and gave lusty voice to the tearful wish that
he was dead. Mrs. Jones stooped to the floor and took her child by an arm, lifting him to his
feet. She smoothed his hair and took him with her to the big chair in the dining-room, where
she raised his seventy pounds to her lap, saying as she did so, "Mama's boy will soon be too
big to hold." At that the spoiled child only renewed his weeping and clutched her tightly.
There, little by little, he forgot the mishaps of the day. There the anguish lifted from his
heart, and when his mother asked, "Harold, why did you go into the water when we told you not
to?" the child only shook his head, and, after repeated questioning, his answer came,--

"Well, they asked me, mom."

"Who asked you?" persisted Mrs. Jones.

"Piggy Pennington and Jimmy Sears," returned the lad.

To the query, "Well, do you have to do everything they ask you to, Harold?" the lad's answer
was a renewal of the heart-breaking sobs. These softened the mother's heart, as many and many
a woman's heart has been melted through all the ages. She soothed the truant child and petted
him, until the cramping in his throat relaxed sufficiently to admit of the passage of an astonishingly
large slice of bread and butter and sugar. After it was disposed of, Harold busied himself
by assorting his old iron scraps on the back porch, and his mother smiled as she fancied she
heard the boy trying to whistle a tune.

Harold had left the porch before his father came home with the beefsteak for supper, and Mrs.
Jones met her husband with: "Pa Jones, what could you be thinking of--punishing that boy before
the other children? Do you want to break what little spirit he has? Why, that child was nearly
in hysterics for an hour after you left!" I wish I had a Pegasus or Hippogriff on
hand, to imitate Astolfo Perseus, riding on it, and run at full speed when and where the monster would
take me away!

In other lands further north than ours, it must be confessed that the Spring seems more beautiful: the
scene change is faster and double spell, the change is more fantastic, as a sudden and miraculous
resurrection of beings. On the edge of the Rhine or the Elbe, Spring gives us a higher concept of
the creative power of our birth, the show of life on our globe. In our warmer climates, there is hardly
any mutation, or it is too slow to be perceived. He knew it was the boys. They
were grinning broadly when he came to them. It was Piggy Pennington who first spoke, "Oh, pa,
I won't do it any more," repeating the phrase several times in a suppressed voice, and leering
impishly at Mealy.

"Aw, you're makin' that up," answered Mealy in embarrassment. But Piggy continued his teasing
until Abe Carpenter said: "Say, Mealy, we want you to go to the cave with us to-morrow; can you?"

The "can you" was an imputation on his personal liberty that Mealy resented. He replied "Uh-huh!
you just bet your bottom dollar I can." Piggy began teasing again, but Abe silenced him, and
the boys sat in the dirt behind the barn, chattering about the new boy, whose name, according
to the others, was "Bud" Perkins. Mealy entered the conversation with much masculine pomp--too
much, in fact; for when he became particularly vain-glorious some one in the group was certain
to glance at his shoes--and shoes in June in Boyville are insignia of the weaker sex, the badges
of shame.

But Mealy did not feel his disgrace. He walked up the ash path to the kitchen with an excellent
imitation of manly pride in his gait. He kicked at a passing cat, and shook his head bravely,
talking to himself about the way he would have whipped the new boy if his father had not interrupted
the fight.

As Mrs. Jones heard the boy's step on the porch, she said to his father, "Now, pa, that boy
has been punished enough to-day. Don't you say a word to him." Harold walked by his father
with averted face. At supper the boy did not look at his father, and when the dishes were put
away, Mr. Jones, who sat in the kitchen smoking, heard his wife and the child in a front room,
chatting cheerily. The lonesome father smoked his pipe and recalled his youth. The boy's voice
brought back his own shrill treble, and he coughed nervously. After Mrs. Jones had put the
lad to bed, and was in the pantry arranging for breakfast, the father knocked the ashes from
his briar into the stove, and, humming an old tune, went to the boy's bedroom door. He paused
awkwardly on the threshold. The boy turned his face toward the wall. The action cut the father
to the quick. He walked to the bed and bent over the child, touching a father's rough-bearded
face to the soft cheek. He found the soft hand--with a father's large hand--under the sheet,
and he held the little hand tightly as he said:

"Well, Harold"--there he paused for a second. But he continued, "Do you think you'd a-licked
that boy--if--if--I hadn't a-come?"

Then the two laughed, and a little throb of joyous pain tingled in their throats--such as only
boys may feel.

A RECENT CONFEDERATE VICTORY

A LITTLE DREAM-BOY

  Little Boy Blue, come blow your horn,
  And wake up a little man lying forlorn,
  Asleep where his life wanders out of the morn.

  Little Boy Blue, blow a merry, sweet note,
  Over the pool where the white lilies float,--
  Fill out the sails of a little toy boat.

  Blow on my dream of a little boy there,--
  Blow thro' his little bark-whistle, and snare
  Your breath in a tangle of curly brown hair.

  Blow and O blow from your fairy land far,
  Blow while my little boy wears a tin star,
  And rides a stick-horse to a little boy's war. Should I get by with repeating the bad prose, which is said
in all the living and dead languages, with verse and harmony of good and mediocre poets from
Hesiodo to Gracian and Virgil to D. Gregorio de Salas?

A RECENT CONFEDERATE VICTORY

