It will be interesting, especially during the present attempted land reforms in Great Britain
and Ireland, to state here what has occurred in Roumania during the last few years, and to
consider what further changes are likely to result from the conversion there of a large portion
of the soil into peasant holdings. Previous to the year 1864 there were three kinds of tenure
in Roumania in which the peasantry were interested. 

Still, however, is too often the family elegant, stylish or fumes, no home where the smoke come
from, ie does not even farm. If you have a friend or relative, the family can take advantage of
friendship or kinship. If There is not no way farmhouse is deleted the purely rustic resort
is limited to the hydropathic, sweet, salty, or both. That is to mean that not having chateau
or farmhouse to spend a month, used all the time in the bathrooms, though no family never
bathe. Just take the waters by inhalation, breathing, say, Atlantic breezes in that Biarritz
in San Juan de Luz, San Sebastian, Santander or Deva.

Finally, if the desire to be eclipsed in recent months afflict too
much heat, and the stock is so drained, that there is not to go swimming
or Motrico sea view, is gone elegant, stylish family or to any place
in La Mancha, where sometimes the plain and unadorned, and no trees
or shrubs of the field, mimics the sea, and the grasshoppers, crabs
and fish and there he is taking all their fresh flavor, until it is
the opportune time and season return to Madrid without violating the
laws and liturgies of good tone.

There are families, but I just want him to believe, who says, not to violate such laws and liturgies,
as that will make travel and discreet and are surreptitiously economic here in very severe
confinement, having this line of martyrdom, to be conducive to deity whom they worship, which
is the fashion.

Anyway, now really, and using tricks and resources of some sophistical, this is the If in the months
of July, August and September in Madrid is only known person.

People who are, it says in worship style, which are not known to imply are not the cream of society,
of the flower and cream.

Otherwise, very well known are usually those who have gone, not a few of which fit into the
limits of probability, and sometimes it likely that the money due to them who left, or footwear
or clothing that is decked in the bathrooms.

Tranquilicémonos, however, not feel sorry for people that they trusted
or unknown provided.

Already charged, as is fitting, including collecting all profits and all damages.

Now, to all intents and purposes, every peasant is the proprietor of his holding, and one of
the wisest things done by the Roumanian Government was to pass an act before the expiration
of the 'obligations rurales,' which prevented the alienation of their holdings by the peasantry
for a period of thirty years; otherwise a portion of the land would have fallen to usurers
and harpies who were speculating on being able to secure it when it came into possession of
the nominal proprietor, by advancing loans upon it, as they do upon that of the improvident
landlords.

But this leads us to the dark side of the picture. The industrious peasantry, who form the
large majority, have paid for their allotted lands, and a great many continue to buy from the
indigent boyards. Many are, however, still embarrassed, and some even in virtual servitude,
this being the result of their own indolence and misconduct. For a large number of idle or
destitute peasant holders, being unable to pledge their land in consequence of the act just
named, are forced to sell their labour for one, two, or more years in consideration of money
payments by their landlords, such contracts being permitted by the State and enforced by the
local authorities and by custom and public opinion; that is to say, the breach by a peasant
would reduce him to starvation, as no one would supply him with the necessaries of life. As
nearly as we have been able to ascertain, about one-third of the whole peasantry are owners
of their holdings without hypothecation, are doing well, and buying up additional land; about
the same proportion are in possession of their holdings, but find it necessary to pledge their
labour for one year, or perhaps a somewhat longer period, whilst the remaining third are practically
serfs on their own farms.[60]

[Footnote 59: For exact particulars of peasant tenure see Appendix IV.]

[Footnote 60: Comparing this statement with the fact that the 'obligations rurales' were almost
extinguished in 1880, it is clear that the embarrassed and idle peasants must be only small
holders. The information was given to us by the gentleman best acquainted with the history
and effect of the land emancipation.]

IV.

Now as to the boyards, or old landed aristocracy. There are many wealthy landowners, and those
who manage their own estates are the most prosperous. A large proportion, however, contract
with sub-tenants to farm the land for a fixed sum (fermage). Amongst these many are poor and
involved. When we were at Bucarest the 'Crédit Foncier' held titles of land to the extent of
fifty millions of francs, and that probably represented about one-third of the whole known
mortgages of the country. Since about 1870, when the rate of wages began to rise in consequence
of the formation of railways and the resulting increase in the demand for labour, a momentous
change has taken place. Improvidence and fermage have sounded the knell of the old landed gentry.
Their estates have in many cases been bought up by the fermiers, their sub-tenants; the peasantry
have purchased considerable quantities of land in addition to that allotted them by the State,
and merchants and traders have also obtained possession of a portion by purchase, thus laying
the foundation of an influential middle class, which at the present time can hardly be said
to exist in the country. The consequences of this change cannot fail to be the development
of agriculture, provident landowners, and the general prosperity of the entire nation.

We hesitate somewhat to draw any further comparisons between the past land reforms of Roumania
and those in progress in Ireland or impending in Great Britain; but certain striking contrasts
force themselves upon our attention. In Roumania a portion of the soil was taken from the boyard
at a fixed price and sold to the peasant, without delay or litigation: the results being, first,
an immediate improvement in the condition of the peasant, and his ultimate independence and
prosperity; secondly, an exposure of the uselessness and helplessness of the indolent boyard
landlord so soon as he was forced to attend to his duties and pay for his labour; in many cases
his rapid decadence and extinction. For Ireland, under similar conditions, an Act is passed
by which, to some extent in the direct interest of the Irish landlords, and indirectly for
the protection of those in Great Britain, the old conditions of landlord and tenant are sought
to be retained and amended, or the land to be transferred by sale, involving what are practically
lawsuits with their appeals and all their delays, or an interminable period (about thirty-five
years as against fifteen) for repayment. In Roumania the people, through their parliament,
fixed the conditions of transfer, and the boyards were forced to submit after centuries of
exaction and tyranny; in Britain the Parliament, consisting largely of landowners and persons
opposed to all reforms, and from which the representatives of the aggrieved parties were almost
entirely excluded, has groped about for a remedy, thwarted and threatened at every step by
an irresponsible body of legislators, who have for the time being resolved themselves into
a trades union of landowners; and masses of the peasantry have been driven into the roads.
What the future result of the Irish land reform will be it is impossible to predict. We can
only hope for the best.

We have already said that the Roumanian peasant is old-fashioned and slow to move, but he has
also excellent qualities. He possesses great hardihood and endurance, and will work, not very
constantly it is true, during the hottest weather from five a.m. to eight p.m. with a couple
of hours for meals and rest during the heat of the day. On the other hand he will face the
keenest cold with a bared breast, and is satisfied with mamaliga as his daily food. As we have
already said, the women work harder even than the men, besides doing a great deal of work at
home, which only Roumanian women are able to perform.[61] The children work also, beginning
often at five years of age, but they attend school during the winter from October to April.
As we shall see presently, the progress of education is slow; for although there is supposed
to be a school in every village, many of them are closed, and there is a great want of teachers.
Education is, however, progressing steadily, but it will be a generation or two before every
peasant is able to read and write. As in the town, so in the country, there are a great many
fast days, which the peasants do not, however, always observe. During the week days they are
abstemious, but, although they do not get drunk, they spend their Sunday in drinking, and one
of the greatest curses of the country has been the substitution of alcohol prepared from grain
for the old plum-spirit which was formerly drunk and which was much less injurious in its after-effects.
All things considered, however, the future of the peasant is not dark. If he is at all industrious,
he owns his farm, and by sobriety and diligence his possessions are increasing annually; the
gradual spread of elementary and technical instruction, of which the foundations are firmly
laid in the country, will open his eyes to the advantages which he enjoys; and soon he will
appreciate the fact, already known to all enlightened persons in Roumania, that upon the labours
and exertions of the peasantry depend not only their own fortunes, but the future progress
and prosperity of the fatherland.[62]

[Footnote 61: Besides making clothes for their families, and costumes for the ladies of the
cities, &c., the Roumanian women make beautiful rugs, mats, and even Carpets of variegated wool.]

[Footnote 62: Nothing shows the importance of the agricultural interest in Roumania so effectively
as an analysis of the occupations of the people. This is thoroughly trustworthy, as it is computed
from the number of taxpayers, and the following is a table condensed from the data supplied
to us by the authorities at Bucarest:--

Agriculturists                            684,168 heads of families
Artisans and labourers                     83,061
Traders                                    30,117
Officials (fonctionnaires)               22,811
Professors and teachers                     6,066
Medical and legal professions and druggists   995
Artists (meaning probably persons engaged
in the arts)                                2,156
Priests, monks, and religieuses          18,452
Various                                   125,815
                                          -------
   Of the total heads of families         973,941, seventy per cent.
therefore are agriculturists.
]

CHAPTER VII.

EDUCATIONAL--ETHNOGRAPHICAL.

     Educational laws--Statistics--Cost of instruction to the
     State--(Note: Comparison with Great Britain)--- Backward condition
     of education--Imperfect state of university instruction--Roumanian
     youth in Paris and elsewhere--Impolicy of the system--Pecuniary
     loss to the country--Moral drawbacks--Edgar Quinet's
     views--Conflicting opinions in Roumania--Need for the encouragement
     of home instruction--The Asyle Hélène--A remarkable institution for
     girls--Its foundation and history--Dr. Davila again--Princess
     Elena--Constitution of the school--Classes and subjects
     taught--High standard for the training of teachers--Proficiency of
     the higher pupils--Marriages from the Asyle--How
     negotiated--Wretched payment of state teachers--Other schools and
     institutions--A few ethnographical considerations--Descent
     illustrated philologically--Latin roots in the Roumanian
     language--Examples--Their significance--Magyar roots, indicative of
     foreign domination--Examples--Roumanian music, perpetuates the old
     days of oppression--Dances--Gerando's description of an historical
     dance--(Note: Reference to works on the subject).

I.

Theoretically education in Roumania is everything that can be desired; practically it is still
far otherwise. The Constitution of 1866, article 23, declares that primary instruction shall
be compulsory and gratuitous, and that primary schools shall, by degrees, be established in
every commune.

In 1877-8 there were two universities (Bucarest and Jassy), 96 private schools, 55 secondary
and normal, 26 technical and special; 1,242 boys', 265 girls', and 628 mixed primary schools.
The total number of scholars set down as attending all these institutions was 119,015 (95,765
boys and 23,250 girls), and the total number of teachers 4,486. Roberto candle plant remained in the same position
that from the beginning I had heard, head bowed, hands tightly clenched, and who hopes a fatal blow.

-
There are hundreds and thousands of women in the position of the
Countess d'Arda, in his scruples and the temptations of passion, not
go so far as to commit suicide.

Expected, and over time fit to a life unbearable thought for a moment: compromise with his scruples;
found in the example of others an excuse and confidence in the future redemption.
 3s. per head, including those in universities,
training, and all schools of every description; but the actual cost of the children taught
in primary schools only was about 1l. 8s. per head.[63]

We refrain from criticising these figures, for they do not represent the present state of education.
Many of the village schools, we were told on undoubted authority, are closed, and the attendance
at others is largely increased. It is a vulgar stay in Madrid summer.

As
tonic water is going to some in Germany or France, then a season
pass to shore at Biarritz or Trouville in Brighton, and end the summer,
before returning to this town and court, in a magnificent chateau
or anything like that, that we possess, if possible, in a strange
land, and when not, although this is less comm'il faut, in our Spanish
homeland.

This is the ultimate aristocratic ideal to which we aspire as regards all summer.
 A few
facts will suffice to confirm this statement. In regard to higher education, there are said
to have been in 1878 in the two universities 61 teachers and 508 students. The Roumanian youth
do not, however, as a rule receive their higher education in their own country, and it is computed
that from seven hundred to a thousand of them are always being educated abroad, and chiefly
in Paris. This is not to be wondered at, for there are no suitable facilities at home, and
amongst thoughtful men it is a source of great anxiety for the future welfare of the country.
Looking at the matter first in a pecuniary light, and taking the lowest estimate, the cost
of educating seven hundred young men such as those who are sent abroad must be at the least
80,000l. or 90,000l. annually--we are sure this is considerably below the mark--whilst the
total expenditure of the two universities in Roumania was, in 1878, about 22,000l.! If, instead
of sending this large sum of money to Paris and other educational centres, it were expended
at home, it would be the means of attracting to Roumania a class of teachers very different
from many of those who are at present dignified with the title of professors. This was the
opinion expressed to us by men of sound judgment and discrimination in the country, and we
are not prepared to differ from them. But there is another and a still graver danger to the
country arising out of the system. To send a youth from home, withdrawing him from the watchful
care of his parents at the most dangerous period of his life, namely, between the ages of seventeen
and twenty-one, is of itself a doubtful proceeding; to send him to Paris is in many cases certain
ruin. This is not a mere hastily formed opinion, and probably the expression of it may not
find a welcome in every quarter. But it is historically true. We must choose between death and life: the renunciation of life is preferable but
you do not wish, and as I have to live, exterminate the whole human race to procure what you
think it's more futile the satisfaction! You wanted that we formed an inseparable family. But are not
you glad now to be free, is not it good to be in skills to be able to leave me if, having seen
the way I am, do you feel inspired horror?
 It is true
he does not discountenance a system which brings grist to the mill of the French academical
institutions, but warning them against the pitfalls of Paris life he says: 'Let them continue
to visit us.' Well, they have continued to visit them for twenty-five years longer, and if
the reader would know the result he must enquire of the Roumanians themselves. No doubt opinions
differ. There are persons whose views are entitled to great respect, and who approve of this
sending of the youth abroad in preference to letting them obtain an imperfect education at
home, speaking with satisfaction of sacrifices which are made by persons with straitened means
to secure a polite education for their children. On the other hand the views of professional
men and of men of the world largely predominate in the opposite direction. Omitting what were
doubtless exaggerations, such as that 80 per cent. of the youths who go to Paris return with
a perfect acquaintance with the French language, the cancan, and nothing more, we are assured
that a large proportion fail to derive such an amount of benefit as to justify the outlay;
that they acquire French vices and luxurious habits; and that on their return they do not hesitate
to express their distaste for home and home occupations.[66] Education abroad, we were told,
is incompatible with true patriotism. Is Sicilian, as Dick, the author of Cavalleria
rusticana, with which his literary talent presents some resemblance. As Dick, also is a realist,
the realist who holds the light color native island. Its novels are of great dramatic intensity
- even when kept in its guidelines a impeccable elegance - something aristocratic in the design
and shape, as revealed in all pages that characterize the young writer a happy way. With Arabeseos
e Short stories brilliantly began his literary career, in which, despite being in its inception
has achieved success in resonance with I Vicera and we offer today this spasm Argentine readers,
whose direct translation of the language in which it was written deserved special care from us.
.