"They are fast rising at least," said Ulrica, with frightful composure, "and a signal shall
soon wave to warn the besiegers to press hard upon those who would extinguish them. Farewell,
Front-de-Boeuf! But know, if it will give thee comfort to know it, that Ulrica is bound to
the same dark coast with thyself, the companion of thy punishment as the companion of thy guilt.
And now, parricide, farewell for ever! May each stone of this vaulted roof find a tongue to
echo that title into thine ear!"

So saying, she left the apartment; and Front-de-Boeuf could hear the crash of the ponderous
keys as she locked and double-locked the door behind her, thus cutting off the most slender
chance of escape. In the extremity of agony, he shouted upon his servants and allies--"Stephen
and Saint Maur! Clement and Giles! I burn here unaided! To the rescue-- to the rescue, brave
Bois-Guilbert, valiant De Bracy! It is Front-de- Boeuf who calls! It is your master, ye traitor
squires! Your ally--your brother in arms, ye perjured and faithless knights! All the curses
due to traitors upon your recreant heads, do you abandon me to perish thus miserably! They
hear me not--they cannot hear me--my voice is lost in the din of battle. The smoke rolls thicker
and thicker, the fire has caught upon the floor below. O, for one draught of the air of heaven,
were it to be purchased by instant annihilation! The red fire flashes through the thick smoke!
the demon marches against me under the banner of his own element. Foul spirit, avoid! I go
not with thee without my comrades--all, all are thine that garrison these walls. Thinkest thou
Front-de-Boeuf will be singled out to go alone? No; the infidel Templar, De Bracy, Ulrica,
the men who aided my enterprises, the dog Saxons and accursed Jews who are my prisoners--all,
all shall attend me--a goodly fellowship as ever took the downward road."

But it were impious to trace any further the picture of the blasphemer and parricide's death-bed.

When the barbican was carried, the Sable Knight sent notice of the happy event to Locksley,
the archer, requesting him at the same time to keep such a strict observation on the castle
as might prevent the defenders from combining their force for a sudden sally, and recovering
the outwork which they had lost. This the knight was chiefly desirous of avoiding, conscious
that the men whom he led, being hasty and untrained volunteers, imperfectly armed and unaccustomed
to discipline, must, upon any sudden attack, fight at great disadvantage with the veteran soldiers
of the Norman knights, who were well provided with arms both defensive and offensive; and who,
to match the zeal and high spirit of the besiegers, had all the confidence which arises from
perfect discipline and the habitual use of weapons.

The knight employed the interval in causing to be constructed a sort of floating bridge, or
long raft, by means of which he hoped to cross the moat, in despite of the resistance of the
enemy. This was a work of some time, which the leaders the less regretted, as it gave Ulrica
leisure to execute her plan of diversion in their favor, whatever that might be.

When the raft was completed, the Black Knight addressed the besiegers: "It avails not waiting
here longer, my friends; the sun is descending to the west, and I have that upon my hands which
will not permit me to tarry with you another day. Besides, it will be a marvel if the horsemen
come not upon us from York, unless we speedily accomplish our purpose. Wherefore, one of ye
go to Locksley, and bid him commence a discharge of arrows on the opposite side of the castle,
and move forward as if about to assault it; and you, true English hearts, stand by me, and
be ready to thrust the raft endlong over the moat whenever the postern on our side is thrown
open. Follow me boldly across, and aid me to burst yon sallyport in the main wall of the castle.
As many of you as like not this service, or are but ill armed to meet it, do you man the top
of the outwork, draw your bowstrings to your ears, and mind you quell with your shot whatever
shall appear to man the rampart. Noble Cedric, wilt thou take the direction of those which remain?"

"Not so!" said the Saxon; "lead I cannot; but may posterity curse me in my grave, if I follow
not with the foremost wherever thou shalt point the way. The quarrel is mine, and well it becomes
me to be in the van of the battle."

"Yet, bethink thee, noble Saxon," said the knight, "thou hast neither hauberk, nor corselet,
nor aught but that light helmet, target, and sword."

"The better!" answered Cedric; "I shall be the lighter to climb these walls. And--forgive the
boast, Sir Knight--thou shalt this day see the naked breast of a Saxon as boldly presented
to the battle as ever ye beheld the steel corselet of a Norman."

"In the name of God, then," said the knight, "fling open the door, and launch the floating bridge."

The portal, which led from the inner wall of the barbican to the moat, and which corresponded
with a sallyport in the main wall of the castle, was now suddenly opened; the temporary bridge
was then thrust forward, and soon flashed in the waters, extending its length between the castle
and outwork, and forming a slippery and precarious passage for two men abreast to cross the
moat. Well aware of the importance of taking the foe by surprise, the Black Knight, closely
followed by Cedric, threw himself upon the bridge, and reached the opposite side. Here he began
to thunder with his axe upon the gate of the castle, protected in part from the shot and stones
cast by the defenders by the ruins of the former drawbridge, which the Templar had demolished
in his retreat from the barbican, leaving the counterpoise still attached to the upper part
of the portal. The followers of the knight had no such shelter; two were instantly shot with
cross-bow bolts, and two more fell into the moat; the others retreated back into the barbican.

The situation of Cedric and of the Black Knight was now truly dangerous, and would have been
still more so but for the constancy of the archers in the barbican, who ceased not to shower
their arrows upon the battlements, distracting the attention of those by whom they were manned,
and thus affording a respite to their two chiefs from the storm of missiles which must otherwise
have overwhelmed them. But their situation was eminently perilous, and was becoming more so
with every moment.

"Shame on ye all!" cried De Bracy to the soldiers around him; "do ye call yourselves cross-bowmen,
and let these two dogs keep their station under the walls of the castle? Heave over the coping
stones from the battlement, an better may not be. Get pickaxe and levers, and down with that
huge pinnacle!" pointing to a heavy piece of stone carved-work that projected from the parapet.

At this moment the besiegers caught sight of the red flag upon the angle of the tower, which
Ulrica raised to show that she had fired the castle. The stout yeoman Locksley was the first
who was aware of it, as he was hasting to the outwork, impatient to see the progress of the
assault.

"Saint George!" he cried--"Merry Saint George for England! To the charge, bold yeomen! why
leave ye the good knight and noble Cedric to storm the pass alone? Make in, brave yeomen!--the
castle is ours, we have friends within. See yonder flag, it is the appointed signal-- Torquilstone
is ours! Think of honor--think of spoil! One effort, and the place is ours!"

With that he bent his good bow, and sent a shaft right through the breast of one of the men-at-arms,
who, under De Bracy's direction, was loosening a fragment from one of the battlements to precipitate
on the heads of Cedric and the Black Knight. A second soldier caught from the hands of the
dying man the iron crow with which he heaved at and had loosened the stone pinnacle, when,
receiving an arrow through his headpiece, he dropped from the battlements into the moat a dead
man. The men-at-arms were daunted, for no armor seemed proof against the shot of this tremendous
archer.

"Do you give ground, base knaves!" said De Bracy. "Give me the lever!"

And, snatching it up, he again assailed the loosened pinnacle, which was of weight enough,
if thrown down, not only to have destroyed the remnant of the drawbridge which sheltered the
two foremost assailants, but also to have sunk the rude float of planks over which they had
crossed. All saw the danger, and the boldest avoided setting foot on the raft. Thrice did Locksley
bend his shaft against De Bracy, and thrice did his arrow bound back from the knight's armor
of proof.

"Curse on thy Spanish steel-coat!" said Locksley, "had English smith forged it, these arrows
had gone through, as if it had been silk or sendal." He then began to call out. "Comrades!
friends! noble Cedric! bear back and let the ruin fall."

His warning voice was unheard, for the din which the knight himself occasioned by his strokes
upon the postern would have drowned twenty war-trumpets. The faithful Gurth indeed sprung forward
on the planked bridge, to warn Cedric of his impending fate, or to share it with him. But his
warning would have come too late; the massive pinnacle already tottered, and De Bracy, who
still heaved at his task, would have accomplished it had not the voice of the Templar sounded
close in his ear:

"All is lost, De Bracy; the castle burns."

"Thou art mad to say so!" replied the knight.

"It is all in a light flame on the western side. I have striven in vain to extinguish it."

With the stern coolness which formed the basis of his character, Brian de Bois-Guilbert communicated
this hideous intelligence, which was not so calmly received by his astonished comrade.

"Saints of Paradise!" said De Bracy; "what is to be done?"

"Lead thy men down," said the Templar, "as if to a sally; throw the postern gate open. There
are but two men who occupy the float, fling them into the moat, push across for the barbican.
I will charge from the main gate, and attack the barbican on the outside; and if we can regain
that post, be assured we shall defend ourselves until we are relieved, or at least till they
grant us fair quarter."

"It is well thought upon," said De Bracy; "I will play my part. Templar, thou wilt not fail me?"

"Hand and glove, I will not!" said Bois-Guilbert. "But haste thee, in the name of God!"

De Bracy hastily drew his men together, and rushed down to the postern gate, which he caused
instantly to be thrown open. But scarce was this done ere the portentous strength of the Black
Knight forced his way inward in despite of De Bracy and his followers. Two of the foremost
instantly fell, and the rest gave way notwithstanding all their leader's efforts to stop them.

"Dogs!" said De Bracy, "will ye let two men win our only pass for safety?"

"He is the devil!" said a veteran man-at-arms, bearing back from the blows of their sable antagonist.

"And if he be the devil," replied De Bracy, "would you fly from him into the mouth of hell?
The castle burns behind us, villains!--let despair give you courage, or let me forward! I will
cope with this champion myself."

And well and chivalrous did De Bracy that day maintain the fame he had acquired in the civil
wars of that dreadful period. The vaulted passage to which the postern gave entrance, and in
which these two redoubted champions were now fighting hand to hand, rung with the furious blows
which they dealt each other, De Bracy with his sword, the Black Knight with his ponderous axe.

At length the Norman received a blow which, though its force was partly parried by his shield,
for otherwise never more would De Bracy have again moved limb, descended yet with such violence
on his crest that he measured his length on the paved floor.

"Yield thee, De Bracy," said the Black Champion, stooping over him, and holding against the
bars of his helmet the fatal poniard with which the knights despatched their enemies, and which
was called the dagger of mercy--"Yield thee, Maurice De Bracy, rescue or no rescue, or thou
art but a dead man."

"I will not yield," replied De Bracy, faintly, "to an unknown conqueror. Tell me thy name or
work thy pleasure on me; it shall never be said that Maurice De Bracy was prisoner to a nameless
churl."

The Black Knight whispered something into the ear of the vanquished. [Footnote: The Black Knight
is Richard the Lion-Hearted, king of England, who has returned from the Crusades to reclaim
his throne from his usurping brother.]

"I yield me to be true prisoner, rescue or no rescue," answered the Norman, exchanging his
tone of determined obstinacy for one of deep though sullen submission.

"Go to the barbican," said the victor, in a tone of authority, "and there wait my further orders."

"Yet first let me say," said De Bracy, "what it imports thee to know. Wilfred of Ivanhoe is
wounded and a prisoner, and will perish in the burning castle without present help."

"Wilfred of Ivanhoe!" exclaimed the Black Knight--"prisoner, and perish! The life of every
man in the castle shall answer it if a hair of his head be singed. Show me his chamber!"

"Ascend yonder winding stair," said De Bracy; "it leads to his apartment. Wilt thou not accept
my guidance?" he added in a submissive voice.

"No. To the barbican, and there wait my orders, I trust thee not, De Bracy."

During this combat and the brief conversation which ensued, Cedric, at the head of a body of
men, had pushed across the bridge as soon as they saw the postern open, and drove back the
dispirited and despairing followers of De Bracy, of whom some asked quarter, some offered vain
resistance, and the greater part fled toward the courtyard.

De Bracy himself arose from the ground, and cast a sorrowful glance after his conqueror. "He
trusts me not!" he repeated; "but have I deserved his trust?"

He then lifted his sword from the floor, took off his helmet in token of submission, and, going
to the barbican, gave up his sword to Locksley, whom he met by the way.

As the fire augmented, symptoms of it became soon apparent in the chamber where Ivanhoe was
watched and tended by the Jewess Rebecca. He had been awakened from his brief slumber by the
noise of the battle; and his attendant, who had, at his anxious desire, again placed herself
at the window to watch and report to him the fate of the attack, was for some time prevented
from observing either by the increase of the smouldering and stifling vapor. At length the
volumes of smoke which rolled into the apartment, the cries for water, which were heard even
above the din of the battle, made them sensible of the progress of this new danger.

"The castle burns," said Rebecca--"it burns! What can we do to save ourselves?"

"Fly, Rebecca, and save thine own life," said Ivanhoe, "for no human aid can avail me."

"I had not found thee, Wilfred," said the Black Knight, who at that instant entered the apartment,
"but for thy shouts."

And seizing upon Ivanhoe, he bore him with him to the postern, and having there delivered his
burden to the care of two yeomen, again entered the castle to assist in the rescue of the other
prisoners.

One turret was now in bright flames, which flashed out furiously from window and shot-hole.
But in other parts the great thickness of the walls and the vaulted roofs of the apartments
resisted the progress of the flames, and there the rage of man still triumphed, as the scarce
more dreadful element held mastery elsewhere; for the besiegers pursued the defenders of the
castle from chamber to chamber, and satiated in their blood the vengeance which had long animated
them against the soldiers of the tyrant Front-de-Boeuf. Most of the garrison resisted to the
uttermost; few of them asked quarter; none received it. The air was filled with groans and
clashing of arms; the floors were slippery with the blood of despairing and expiring wretches.

Through this scene of confusion, Cedric rushed, in quest of Rowena, while the faithful Gurth,
following him closely through the melee, neglected his own safety while he strove to avert
the blows that were aimed at his master. The noble Saxon was so fortunate as to reach his ward's
apartment just as she had abandoned all hope of safety, and, with a crucifix clasped in agony
to her bosom, sat in expectation of instant death. He committed her to the charge of Gurth,
to be conducted in safety to the barbican, the road to which was now cleared of the enemy,
and not yet interrupted by the flames. This accomplished, the loyal Cedric hastened in quest
of his friend Athelstane, determined, at every risk to himself, to save that last scion of
Saxon royalty. But ere Cedric penetrated as far as the old hall In which he had himself been
a prisoner, the inventive genius of Wamba the Jester had procured liberation for himself and
his companion in adversity.

When the noise of the conflict announced that it was at the hottest, the Jester began to shout,
with the utmost power of his lungs, "Saint George and the dragon! Bonny Saint George for merry
England! The castle is won!" And these sounds he rendered yet more fearful by banging against
each other two or three pieces of rusty armor which lay scattered around the hall.

A guard, which had been stationed in the outer or ante-room, and whose spirits were already
in a state of alarm, took fright at Wamba's clamor, and, leaving the door open behind them,
ran to tell the Templar that foemen had entered the old hall. Meantime the prisoners found
no difficulty in making their escape into the ante-room, and from thence into the court of
the castle, which was now the last scene of contest. Here sat the fierce Templar, mounted on
horseback, surrounded by several of the garrison both on horse and foot, who had united their
strength to that of this renowned leader, in order to secure the last chance of safety and
retreat which remained to them. The drawbridge had been lowered by his orders, but the passage
was beset; for the archers, who had hitherto only annoyed the castle on that side by their
missiles, no sooner saw the flames breaking out, and the bridge lowered, than they thronged
to the entrance, as well to prevent the escape of the garrison as to secure their own share
of booty ere the castle should be burned down. On the other hand, a party of the besiegers,
who had entered by the postern, were now issuing out into the courtyard, and attacking with
fury the remnant of the defenders, who were thus assaulted on both sides at once. Animated,
however, by despair, and supported by the example of their indomitable leader, the remaining
soldiers of the castle fought with the utmost valor; and, being well armed, succeeded more
than once in driving back the assailants, though much inferior in numbers.

Athelstane, who was slothful, but not cowardly, beheld the Templar.

"By the soul of Saint Edward," he said, "yonder over-proud knight shall die by my hand!"

"Think what you do!" cried Wamba; "hasty hand catches frog for fish. Ye may be leader, but
I will be no follower; no bones of mine shall be broken. And you without armor too! Bethink
you, silk bonnet never kept out steel blade. Nay, then, if wilful will to water, wilful must
drench. Deus vobiscum [Footnote: Deus vobiscum means God be with you] most doughty Athelstane!"
he concluded, loosening the hold which he had hitherto kept upon the Saxon's tunic.

To snatch a mace from the pavement, on which it lay beside one whose dying gasp had just relinquished
it, to rush on the Templar's band, and to strike in quick succession to the right and left,
levelling a warrior at each blow, was, for Athelstane's great strength, now animated with unusual
fury, but the work of a single moment; he was soon within two yards of Bois-Guilbert, whom
he defied in his loudest tone.

"Turn, false-hearted Templar! turn, limb of a band of murdering and hypocritical robbers!"

"Dog!" said the Templar, grinding his teeth, "I will teach thee to blaspheme the holy order
of the Temple of Zion;" and with these words, half-wheeling his steed, he made a demi-courbette
toward the Saxon, and rising in the stirrups, so as to take full advantage of the descent of
the horse, he discharged a fearful blow upon the head of Athelstane.

"Well," said Wamba, "that silken bonnet keeps out no steel blade!" So trenchant was the Templar's
weapon, that it shore asunder, as it had been a willow-twig, the tough and plaited handle of
the mace, which the ill-fated Saxon reared to parry the blow, and, descending on his head,
levelled him with the earth.

"Ha! Beau-seant!" exclaimed Bois-Guilbert, "thus be it to the maligners of the Temple knights!"
Taking advantage of the dismay which was spread by the fall of Athelstane, and calling aloud,
"Those who would save themselves, follow me!" he pushed across the drawbridge, dispersing the
archers who would have intercepted them. He was followed by his Saracens, and some five or
six men-at-arms, who had mounted their horses. The Templar's retreat was rendered perilous
by the numbers of arrows shot off at him and his party; but this did not prevent him from galloping
round to the barbican, of which, according to his previous plan, he supposed it possible De
Bracy might have been in possession.

"De Bracy! De Bracy!" he shouted, "art thou there?"

"I am here," replied De Bracy, "but I am a prisoner."

"Can I rescue thee?" cried Bois-Guilbert.

"No," replied De Bracy; "I have rendered me, rescue or no rescue. I will be true prisoner.
Save thyself; there are hawks abroad. Put the seas betwixt you and England; I dare not say more."

"Well," answered the Templar, "an thou wilt tarry there, remember I have redeemed word and
glove. Be the hawks where they will, methinks the walls of the preceptory of Templestowe will
be cover sufficient, and thither will I, like heron to her haunt."

Having thus spoken, he galloped off with his followers.

Those of the castle who had not gotten to horse, still continued to fight desperately with
the besiegers, after the departure of the Templar, but rather in despair of quarter than that
they entertained any hope of escape. The fire was spreading rapidly through all parts of the
castle, when Ulrica, who had first kindled it, appeared on a turret, in the guise of one of
the ancient furies, yelling forth a war- song, such as was of yore raised on the field of battle
by the scalds of the yet heathen Saxons. Her long dishevelled gray hair flew back from her
uncovered head; the inebriating delight of gratified vengeance contended in her eyes with the
fire of insanity; and she brandished the distaff which she held in her hand, as if she had
been one of the Fatal Sisters who spin and abridge the thread of human life.

