Disarmament is a long way from being a reality. But all nations of the world are striving for
it, or at least giving lipservice to its principles, so it may one day emerge as a reality.
If this happens, space exploration again may be a most important element in taking up the slack
which a prominent reduction in defense activity could not help but bring about.

Indeed, there are some who already foresee a complete substitution of space for defense, and
who prognosticate that in the 1990's "the economy of nations is now based on the astronautics
industry, instead of war."[49] Certainly, some new economic force would be crucial to nations
deprived of the need for devising and manufacturing weapons.

FOOTNOTES:

[25] Gavin, James M., address to the International Bankers Association, Bal Harbour, Fla.,
Dec. 2, 1958.

[26] Mitchell, Hon. Erwin, in the House of Representatives, June 2, 1960.

[27] Dryden, Dr. Hugh L., Deputy Administrator, NASA, Penrose lecture before the American Philosophical
Society, Philadelphia, Apr. 21, 1960.

[28] Missile-Space Directory, Missiles and Rockets, May 30, 1960, pp. 86-359.

[29] Haley, Andrew G., general counsel and past president of the International Astronautical
Federation, "Rocketry and Space Exploration." Van Nostrand Co., Princeton, N.J., 1958 p. 156.

[30] Ruzic, Neil P., "The Technical Entrepreneur," Industrial Research, May 1980, p.10.

[31] Bacon, F. T., "The Fuel Cell, Power Source of the Future," New Scientist, Aug. 17, 1959,
p.272.

[32] Science Service dispatch, dateline Lynn, Mass., Apr. 25, 1950.

[33] Sharp, James M., "The Application of Fuel Cells in the Natural Gas Industry," Southwest
Research Institute, San Antonio, Tex., Mar. 4, 1960, pp. 2-3.

[34] Lear, John, "Towns To Be Lit by Plasma," New Scientist, Nov. 19, 1959, p. 1006.

[35] Pursglove S. David, Industrial Research, March 1950 p. 19.

[36] Ibid.

[37] Ibid., p. 18.

[38] Space Business Daily, June 13, 1960.

[39] Cox, Dr. R. A., "The Chemistry of Seawater," New Scientist, Sept. 24, 19459, p. 518.

[40] Hines, L. J., Space Age News, Apr. 25, 1960, p. 4.

[41] Gaertner, W. W., "Functional Microelectronics," Missile Design and Development, March
1960, p. 34.

[42] Stewart, Dr. Homer J., address to the American Bar Association, Miami Beach, Aug. 25, 1959.

[43] Cordiner, Ralph J., "Competitive Private Enterprise in Space," lecture at U.C.L.A., May
4, 1960

[44] Ibid.

[45] Ibid.

[46] Ibid.

[47] 27 supra.

[48] See "The Problem of Plenty," U.S. News & World Report, Apr. 13, 1959, p. 97.

[49] Markuwitz, Meyer M., and Gentieu, Norman P., "The Rocket, A Past and Future History,"
Industrial Research, December 1959, p. 78.

IV. VALUES FOR EVERYDAY LIVING

The so-called side effects of the space exploration program are showing a remarkable ability
to produce innovations which, in turn, improve the quality of everyday work and everyday living
throughout the United States.

In setting forth specific ways and means in which the space program is producing practical
uses, it must be kept in mind that no attempt is made here to separate uses resulting from
the civil phases of the program from those developed by the military phases. Inasmuch as the
two are closely intertwined, it would seem impractical to do so. And, in instances where the
same or similar research is being conducted by a single contractor on behalf of both phases,
it is usually impossible to do so.

TECHNOLOGICAL BENEFITS

This category of the practical uses of the space program is impressive indeed.

Most of us are familiar with the plans which the United States has for using artificial satellites
in ways which will be beneficial to all mankind. These include the satellite used for worldwide
communications, for global television, for quick and accurate navigation, and for much improved
weather prediction and weather understanding.

Here, however, is a summary of space-related developments about which the American public has
heard considerably less:

     First, there is the high-speed computer. Developed initially to
     meet military demands for faster calculation, the computer is an
     integral part of American industry, making it possible to do many
     operations with a high degree of efficiency and accuracy.
     Thermoelectric devices for heating and cooling, now adapted for
     commercial applications, were originally designed to provide energy
     sources for space vehicles. The glass industry, as a result of work
     done during and after the Second World War on lenses and plastics,
     promises substantial gains in the consumer fields of optics and
     foods. Pyroceram, developed for missile radomes, is now being used
     in the manufacture of pots and pans. Materials suitable for use in
     the nuclear preservation of food may make us even better fed than
     we already are.

     Medical research, and our health problems, can use such things as
     film resistance thermometers. Electronic equipment capable of
     measuring low-level electrical signals is being adapted to measure
     body temperature and blood flow. In a dramatic breakthrough,
     illustrating the unexpected benefits of research, it has been found
     that a derivative of hydrazine, developed as a liquid missile
     propellant, is useful in treating certain mental illnesses and
     tuberculosis.

     Of course, the aeronautics industry has benefited tremendously.
     Engines, automatic pilots, radar systems, flight equipment, capable
     of meeting the high standards required by space vehicles represent
     a great improvement over our already excellent aircraft.

     A plasma arc torch (has been) developed for fabricating ultrahard
     materials and coatings by mass production methods. The torch, an
     outgrowth of plasma technology, develops heats of 30,000 degrees
     and can work within tolerances of two-thousandths of an inch.
     Another application from the missile field, which shows real
     possibilities, is a reliable flow meter that has no packings or
     bearings. This was first developed for measuring liquefied gases
     and should have a very wide industrial usefulness. It may even lead
     to improvements in marine devices for measuring distance and
     velocity.

     Ground-to-air missiles that ride a beam to their targets must
     measure the distance to the target plane with an accuracy of a few
     feet in several miles. This principle, now being applied to
     surveying techniques, has revolutionized the surveying industry.

     The solenoid valve, which seats itself softly enough to eliminate
     vibration, has been applied very satisfactorily to home-heating
     systems.

     The use of the jet drilling for mining is another, and worthy of
     amplification. Missiles are already working the economically
     unminable taconite ore of the Mesabi Range, have helped build the
     St. Lawrence Seaway, and are bringing down costs in quarrying.

     It is estimated that taconite will be supplying about a third of
     our ores in less than 20 years. Until 1947 we were unable to mine
     this very hard rock, and then suitable rotary and churn drills were
     produced. Jet drilling, now available, cracks and crumbles stone
     layers by thermally induced expansion and is somewhere between 3
     and 5 times faster than rotaries.

     Jet piercing can take us far deeper into the earth than we have
     been able to go so far, to new sources of ore and hydrocarbons.

     In stone quarrying, jet spalling and channeling are proven
     techniques. Stone quarrying has been expensive and wasteful
     heretofore. Rocket flame equipment allows cutting along the natural
     cleavage planes, or crystal boundaries--hence cuts stone thin
     without danger of cracking and, in addition, produces a fine finish
     that cannot be obtained when cutting by steel or abrasive tools.

     Scientific literature is beginning to contain speculations on using
     the principle of the missile engine to save unstable intermediate
     products of the chemical processes. The high heats achieved in the
     rocket engine can, perhaps, be utilized to produce desired products
     that would be lost by slow cooling. But the high rate of cooling
     accomplished by expanding gases through the engine nozzle, it is
     thought, would save these unstable compounds.

     Infrared has come into its own through missile electronics.
     Infrared--since it cannot be jammed--appears to be challenging
     radar for use in guidance devices, tracking systems, and
     reconnaissance vehicles. Infrared is being used industrially to
     measure the compositions of fluids in complex processes of chemical
     petroleum refining and distilling. Infrared cameras are used in
     analyzing metallurgical material processing operations, to aid in
     accuracy and quality control. The entire infrared field should be
     significantly assisted in its growth and application through our
     missile-space programs.

     Another very promising outcome from missile development is a
     computer converter that can quickly transform analogue
     signals--such as pressure measurements--into digital form.

     In the near future, when guidance devices permit soft landing,
     rocket cargo and passenger transport will become feasible. Mail may
     become almost as swift as telephone. 

     No foe was met with river, but at period four steamers were discovered,
     lying in hook near the sloop in Cumberland, off the booths repair of News.
     As the Patrick and Henry could not have returned distant pumps,
     An tucker took a knot from the batteries, and opened out on the federal
     vessels with his port battery and pivot guns. The fire was besides
be returned, many control of the shots from the rifled weapon passing
over the Patrick Henry, and one, going soldering her used fly-house
and lodging in the hammock-netting, did some gun to the vessel, quickly
wounding slightly one of the missiles and a seaman by the splinters
it caused.

In February, 1862, the begum of Charles City, a county on James river,
desired to an present to the Patrick Henry a flag which they had not made for
her as an evidence of their appreciation of her services in keeping
boat expeditions and the s is small steamers for the river. From this
kind of such practice, the clam to her anchorage Air, it continued
her used generally guard of river, and waited for opportunity for
more state.

The skirmish, if such equipment can etc be applied out of a interruption might do, lasted
about two hours, during which time the Patrick Henry fired---eight shells and-- solid systems, but
with air enemy is not known. But emphasize the presentation of this flag did not give the grave;
the C. Repair the second. steamers jamestown Bulbs, 2, and Teaser, v, had reinforced for the
Patrick Henry, and do such incessant preparations were going on that
time might be spared for the ceremony.



     Target drone autopilot--used as an inexpensive pilot assist and
     safety device for private aircraft.

     Inert thread sealing compound--- used by pump manufacturers serving
     process industries.

     Satellite scan devices--used in infrared appliances, e.g., lamps,
     roasters, switches, ovens.

     Automatic control components--used as proximity switches, plugs,
     valves, cylinders; other components already are an integral part of
     industrial conveyor systems.

     Missile accelerometers, torquemeters, strain gage equipment--used
     in auto crash tests, motor testing, shipbuilding and bridge
     construction.

     Space recording equipment automatically stopped and started by
     sound of voice--used widely as conference recorder.

     Armalite radar--used as proximity warning device for aircraft.

     Miniature electronics and bearings--used for portable radio and
     television; excessively small roller, needle and ball bearings used
     for such equipment as air-turbine dental drills.

     Epoxy missile resin--used for plastic tooling, metal bonding,
     adhesive, and casting and laminating applications.

     Silicones for motor insulation and subzero lubricants--used in new
     glassmaking techniques for myriad products.

     Ribbon glass for capacitors--used widely in electronics field.

     Radar bulbs--used in air traffic control equipment.

     Ribbon cable for missiles--used in the communications industry. 

     To his return to Virginia he found that both the Confederate and State
Governments were things of the past, and that he would have to mend
his broken fortunes, if mend that we withstand he could, by prosecute
in the business of tucker life.

     
     
     Tucker was sent North and confined up by a prisoner of economics
until the cessation of hostilities, when he was released on parole.

     Civil's sword, which he rendered to general Keifer, was returned
     to him some years after the war by the gentleman, then a member
of Strength.


     Examples such as the foregoing, it might be pointed out, do not
     generally emphasize an area in which space exploration is making
     one of its greatest contributions. This is the creation of new
     materials, metals, fabrics, alloys, and compounds that are finding
     their way rapidly into the commercial market.

     Less demonstrable but equally (and perhaps more) significant areas
     which may expect to benefit from space exploration are set out
     beginning on page 35.

FOOD AND AGRICULTURE

An extremely difficult problem bound up with space travel of any duration is that of food.
Astronauts will not be able to take large supplies of food on their voyages and probably will
have to reuse what they do take. Learning how to do this is no easy matter. Some doubt if it
can be done. Others are optimistic.

     The body of scientists now working directly on space feeding and
     nutrition is working effectively at a rate only attained by high
     motivation. But this motivation suffices and their efforts will
     ultimately provide at least a partially closed space feeding system
     by the time it is critically needed and, eventually, an ideal one
     for long voyages of man into the remoter reaches of outer
     space.[54]

If the optimists are right, it is conceivable that the information gamed from this research
will have profound influence on food and agricultural processes in the future. The use and
growth of synthetics or new foods, and their effects on the soil, could prove invaluable as
the worlds population climbs and the demand for food multiplies. Better understanding of weather
processes, as provided through space exploration, will also be valuable in terms of agriculture.
Long-range accurate weather prediction would be worth millions of dollars in proper crops planted
and crop damage avoided.

Meanwhile, as in other technological areas, space research is providing specific new tools
for the food and agriculture industry. Infrared food blanching, for instance, is highly effective
in preparing foods for canning or freezing. The development of a new forage harvester based
on principles of aerodynamics uncovered by missile engineers is another example.

COMMUNICATIONS

