But as the suggestion has not yet been carried out, and as there is at present no learned gentleman
whose duty would induce him to set me right, I can only plead for mercy if I be wrong allotting
all Sir Roger's vast possessions in perpetuity to Miss Thorne, alleging also, in excuse, that
the course of my narrative absolutely demands that she shall be ultimately recognised as Sir
Roger's undoubted heiress.

Such, after a not immoderate delay, was the opinion expressed to Dr Thorne by his law advisers;
and such, in fact, turned out to be the case. I will leave the matter so, hoping that my very
absence of defence may serve to protect me from severe attack. If under such a will as that
described as having been made by Sir Roger, Mary would not have been the heiress, that will
must have been described wrongly.

But it was not quite at once that those tidings made themselves absolutely certain to Dr Thorne's
mind; nor was he able to express any such opinion when he first met Frank in London. At that
time Mary's letter was in Frank's pocket; and Frank, though his real business appertained much
more to the fact of Sir Louis's death, and the effect that would immediately have on his father's
affairs, was much more full of what so much more nearly concerned himself. "I will show it
Dr Thorne himself," said he, "and ask him what he thinks."

Dr Thorne was stretched fast asleep on the comfortless horse-hair sofa in the dingy sitting-room
at the Gray's Inn Coffee-house when Frank found him. The funeral, and his journey to London,
and the lawyers had together conquered his energies, and he lay and snored, with nose upright,
while heavy London summer flies settled on his head and face, and robbed his slumbers of half
their charms.

"I beg your pardon," said he, jumping up as though he had been detected in some disgraceful
act. "Upon my word, Frank, I beg your pardon; but--well, my dear fellow, all well at Greshamsbury--eh?"
and as he shook himself, he made a lunge at one uncommonly disagreeable fly that had been at
him for the last ten minutes. It is hardly necessary to say that he missed his enemy.

"I should have been with you before, doctor, but I was down at Malvern."

"At Malvern, eh? Ah! so Oriel told me. The death of poor Sir Louis was very sudden--was it not?"

"Very."

"Poor fellow--poor fellow! His fate has for some time been past hope. It is a madness, Frank;
the worst of madness. Only think of it--father and son! And such a career as the father had--such
a career as the son might have had!"

"It has been very quickly run," said Frank.

"May it be all forgiven him! I sometimes cannot but believe in a special Providence. That poor
fellow was not able, never would have been able, to make proper use of the means which fortune
had given him. I hope they may fall into better hands. There is no use in denying it, his death
will be an immense relief to me, and a relief also to your father. All this law business will
now, of course, be stopped. As for me, I hope I may never be a trustee again."

Frank had put his hand four or five times into his breast-pocket, and had as often taken out
and put back again Mary's letter before he could find himself able to bring Dr Thorne to the
subject. At last there was a lull in the purely legal discussion, caused by the doctor intimating
that he supposed Frank would now soon return to Greshamsbury.

"Yes; I shall go to-morrow morning."

"What! so soon as that? I counted on having you one day in London with me."

"No, I shall go to-morrow. I'm not fit for company for any one. Nor am I fit for anything.
Read that, doctor. It's no use putting it off any longer. I must get you to talk this over
with me. Just read that, and tell me what you think about it. It was written a week ago, when
I was there, but somehow I have only got it to-day." And putting the letter into the doctor's
hands, he turned away to the window, and looked out among the Holborn omnibuses. Dr Thorne
took the letter and read it. Mary, after she had written it, had bewailed to herself that the
letter was cold; but it had not seemed cold to her lover, nor did it appear so to her uncle.
When Frank turned round from the window, the doctor's handkerchief was up to his eyes; who,
in order to hide the tears that were there, was obliged to go through a rather violent process
of blowing his nose.

"Well," he said, as he gave back the letter to Frank.

Well! what did well mean? Was it well? or would it be well were he, Frank, to comply with the
suggestion made to him by Mary?

"It is impossible," he said, "that matters should go on like that. Think what her sufferings
must have been before she wrote that. I am sure she loves me."

"I think she does," said the doctor.

"And it is out of the question that she should be sacrificed; nor will I consent to sacrifice
my own happiness. I am quite willing to work for my bread, and I am sure that I am able. I
will not submit to-- Doctor, what answer do you think I ought to give to that letter? There
can be no person so anxious for her happiness as you are--except myself." And as he asked the
question, he again put into the doctor's hand, almost unconsciously, the letter which he had
still been holding in his own.

The doctor turned it over and over, and then opened it again.

"What answer ought I to make to it?" demanded Frank, with energy.

"You see, Frank, I have never interfered in this matter, otherwise than to tell you the whole
truth about Mary's birth."

"Oh, but you must interfere: you should say what you think."

"Circumstanced as you are now--that is, just at the present moment--you could hardly marry
immediately."

"Why not let me take a farm? My father could, at any rate, manage a couple of thousand pounds
or so for me to stock it. That would not be asking much. If he could not give it me, I would
not scruple to borrow so much elsewhere." And Frank bethought him of all Miss Dunstable's offers.

"Oh, yes; that could be managed."

"Then why not marry immediately; say in six months or so? I am not unreasonable; though, Heaven
knows, I have been kept in suspense long enough. As for her, I am sure she must be suffering
frightfully. You know her best, and, therefore, I ask you what answer I ought to make: as for
myself, I have made up my own mind; I am not a child, nor will I let them treat me as such."

Frank, as he spoke, was walking rapidly about the room; and he brought out his different positions,
one after the other, with a little pause, while waiting for the doctor's answer. The doctor
was sitting, with the letter still in his hands, on the head of the sofa, turning over in his
mind the apparent absurdity of Frank's desire to borrow two thousand pounds for a farm, when,
in all human probability, he might in a few months be in possession of almost any sum he should
choose to name. And yet he would not tell him of Sir Roger's will. "If it should turn out to
be all wrong?" said he to himself.

"Do you wish me to give her up?" said Frank, at last.

"No. How can I wish it? How can I expect a better match for her? Besides, Frank, I love no
man in the world so well as I do you."

"Then you will help me?"

"What! against your father?"

"Against! no, not against anybody. But will you tell Mary that she has your consent?"

"I think she knows that."

"But you have never said anything to her."

"Look here, Frank; you ask me for my advice, and I will give it you: go home; though, indeed,
I would rather you went anywhere else."

"No, I must go home; and I must see her."

"Very well, go home: as for seeing Mary, I think you had better put it off for a fortnight."

"Quite impossible."

"Well, that's my advice. But, at any rate, make up your mind to nothing for a fortnight. Wait
for one fortnight, and I then will tell you plainly--you and her too--what I think you ought
to do. At the end of a fortnight come to me, and tell the squire that I will take it as a great
kindness if he will come with you. She has suffered, terribly, terribly; and it is necessary
that something should be settled. But a fortnight more can make no great difference."

"And the letter?"

"Oh! there's the letter."

"But what shall I say? Of course I shall write to-night."

"Tell her to wait a fortnight. And, Frank, mind you bring your father with you."

Frank could draw nothing further from his friend save constant repetitions of this charge to
him to wait a fortnight,--just one other fortnight.

"Well, I will come to you at any rate," said Frank; "and, if possible, I will bring my father.
But I shall write to Mary to-night."

On the Saturday morning, Mary, who was then nearly broken-hearted at her lover's silence, received
a short note:--

   MY OWN MARY,

   I shall be home to-morrow. I will by no means release you
   from your promise. Of course you will perceive that I only
   got your letter to-day.

   Your own dearest,

   FRANK.

   P.S.--You will have to call me so hundreds and hundreds of
   times yet.

Short as it was, this sufficed Mary. It is one thing for a young lady to make prudent, heart-breaking
suggestions, but quite another to have them accepted. She did call him dearest Frank, even
on that one day, almost as often as he had desired her.

CHAPTER XLVI

Our Pet Fox Finds a Tail

Frank returned home, and his immediate business was of course with his father, and with Mr
Gazebee, who was still at Greshamsbury.

"But who is the heir?" asked Mr Gazebee, when Frank had explained that the death of Sir Louis
rendered unnecessary any immediate legal steps.

"Upon my word I don't know," said Frank.

"You saw Dr Thorne," said the squire. "He must have known."

"I never thought of asking him," said Frank, naïvely.

Mr Gazebee looked rather solemn. "I wonder at that," said he; "for everything now depends on
the hands the property will go into. Let me see; I think Sir Roger had a married sister. Was
not that so, Mr Gresham?" And then it occurred for the first time, both to the squire and to
his son, that Mary Thorne was the eldest child of this sister. But it never occurred to either
of them that Mary could be the baronet's heir.

Dr Thorne came down for a couple of days before the fortnight was over to see his patients,
and then returned again to London. But during this short visit he was utterly dumb on the subject
of the heir. He called at Greshamsbury to see Lady Arabella, and was even questioned by the
squire on the subject. But he obstinately refused to say more than that nothing certain could
be known for yet a few days.

Immediately after his return, Frank saw Mary, and told her all that had happened. "I cannot
understand my uncle," said she, almost trembling as she stood close to him in her own drawing-room.
"He usually hates mysteries, and yet now he is so mysterious. He told me, Frank--that was after
I had written that unfortunate letter--"

"Unfortunate, indeed! I wonder what you really thought of me when you were writing it?"

"If you had heard what your mother said, you would not be surprised. But, after that, uncle said--"

"Said what?"

"He seemed to think--I don't remember what it was he said. But he said, he hoped that things
might yet turn out well; and then I was almost sorry that I had written the letter."

"Of course you were sorry, and so you ought to have been. To say that you would never call
me Frank again!"

"I didn't exactly say that."

"I have told him I will wait a fortnight, and so I will. After that, I shall take the matter
into my own hands."

It may be well supposed that Lady Arabella was not well pleased to learn that Frank and Mary
had been again together; and, in the agony of her spirit, she did say some ill-natured things
before Augusta, who had now returned from Courcy Castle, as to the gross impropriety of Mary's
conduct. But to Frank she said nothing.

Nor was there much said between Frank and Beatrice. If everything could really be settled at
the end of that fortnight which was to witness the disclosure of the doctor's mystery, there
would still be time to arrange that Mary should be at the wedding. "It shall be settled then,"
he said to himself; "and if it be settled, my mother will hardly venture to exclude my affianced
bride from the house." It was now the beginning of August, and it wanted yet a month to the
Oriel wedding.

But though he said nothing to his mother or to Beatrice, he did say much to his father. In
the first place, he showed him Mary's letter. "If your heart be not made of stone it will be
softened by that," he said. Mr Gresham's heart was not of stone, and he did acknowledge that
the letter was a very sweet letter. But we know how the drop of water hollows stone. It was
not by the violence of his appeal that Frank succeeded in obtaining from his father a sort
of half-consent that he would no longer oppose the match; but by the assiduity with which the
appeal was repeated. Frank, as we have said, had more stubbornness of will than his father;
and so, before the fortnight was over, the squire had been talked over, and promised to attend
at the doctor's bidding.

"I suppose you had better take the Hazlehurst farm," said he to his son, with a sigh. "It joins
the park and the home-fields, and I will give you up them also. God knows, I don't care about
farming any more--or about anything else either."

"Don't say that, father."

"Well, well! But, Frank, where will you live? The old house is big enough for us all. But how
would Mary get on with your mother?"

At the end of his fortnight, true to his time, the doctor returned to the village. He was a
bad correspondent; and though he had written some short notes to Mary, he had said no word
to her about his business. It was late in the evening when he got home, and it was understood
by Frank and the squire that they were to be with him on the following morning. Not a word
had been said to Lady Arabella on the subject.

It was late in the evening when he got home, and Mary waited for him with a heart almost sick
with expectation. As soon as the fly had stopped at the little gate she heard his voice, and
heard at once that it was quick, joyful, and telling much of inward satisfaction. He had a
good-natured word for Janet, and called Thomas an old blunder-head in a manner that made Bridget
laugh outright.

"He'll have his nose put out of joint some day; won't he?" said the doctor. Bridget blushed
and laughed again, and made a sign to Thomas that he had better look to his face.

Mary was in his arms before he was yet within the door. "My darling," said he, tenderly kissing
her. "You are my own darling yet awhile."

"Of course I am. Am I not always to be so?"

"Well, well; let me have some tea, at any rate, for I'm in a fever of thirst. They may call
that tea at the Junction if they will; but if China were sunk under the sea it would make no
difference to them."

Dr Thorne always was in a fever of thirst when he got home from the railway, and always made
complaint as to the tea at the Junction. Mary went about her usual work with almost more than
her usual alacrity, and so they were soon seated in the drawing-room together.

She soon found that his manner was more than ordinarily kind to her; and there was moreover
something about him which seemed to make him sparkle with contentment, but he said no word
about Frank, nor did he make any allusion to the business which had taken him up to town.

"Have you got through all your work?" she said to him once.

"Yes, yes; I think all."

"And thoroughly?"

"Yes; thoroughly, I think. But I am very tired, and so are you too, darling, with waiting for me."

"Oh, no, I am not," said she, as she went on continually filling his cup; "but I am so happy
to have you home again. You have been away so much lately."

"Ah, yes; well I suppose I shall not go away any more now. It will be somebody else's turn now."

"Uncle, I think you're going to take up writing mystery romances, like Mrs Radcliffe's."

"Yes; and I'll begin to-morrow, certainly with-- But, Mary, I will not say another word to-night.
Give me a kiss, dearest, and I'll go."

Mary did kiss him, and he did go. But as she was still lingering in the room, putting away
a book, or a reel of thread, and then sitting down to think what the morrow would bring forth,
the doctor again came into the room in his dressing-gown, and with the slippers on.

"What, not gone yet?" said he.

"No, not yet; I'm going now."

"You and I, Mary, have always affected a good deal of indifference as to money, and all that
sort of thing."

"I won't acknowledge that it has been an affectation at all," she answered.

"Perhaps not; but we have often expressed it, have we not?"

"I suppose, uncle, you think that we are like the fox that lost his tail, or rather some unfortunate
fox that might be born without one."

"I wonder how we should either of us bear it if we found ourselves suddenly rich. It would
be a great temptation--a sore temptation. I fear, Mary, that when poor people talk disdainfully
of money, they often are like your fox, born without a tail. If nature suddenly should give
that beast a tail, would he not be prouder of it than all the other foxes in the wood?"

"Well, I suppose he would. That's the very meaning of the story. But how moral you've become
all of a sudden at twelve o'clock at night! Instead of being Mrs Radcliffe, I shall think you're
Mr Æsop."

He took up the article which he had come to seek, and kissing her again on the forehead, went
away to his bed-room without further speech. "What can he mean by all this about money?" said
Mary to herself. "It cannot be that by Sir Louis's death he will get any of all this property;"
and then she began to bethink herself whether, after all, she would wish him to be a rich man.
"If he were very rich, he might do something to assist Frank; and then--"

There never was a fox yet without a tail who would not be delighted to find himself suddenly
possessed of that appendage. Never; let the untailed fox have been ever so sincere in his advice
to his friends! We are all of us, the good and the bad, looking for tails--for one tail, or
for more than one; we do so too often by ways that are mean enough: but perhaps there is no
tail-seeker more mean, more sneakingly mean than he who looks out to adorn his bare back with
a tail by marriage.

The doctor was up very early the next morning, long before Mary was ready with her teacups.
He was up, and in his own study behind the shop, arranging dingy papers, pulling about tin
boxes which he had brought down with him from London, and piling on his writing-table one set
of documents in one place, and one in another. "I think I understand it all," said he; "but
yet I know I shall be bothered. Well, I never will be anybody's trustee again. Let me see!"
and then he sat down, and with bewildered look recapitulated to himself sundry heavy items.
"What those shares are really worth I cannot understand, and nobody seems able to tell one.
They must make it out among them as best they can. Let me see; that's Boxall Hill, and this
is Greshamsbury. I'll put a newspaper over Greshamsbury, or the squire will know it!" and then,
having made his arrangements, he went to his breakfast.

I know I am wrong, my much and truly honoured critic, about these title-deeds and documents.
But when we've got that barrister in hand, then if I go wrong after that, let the blame be
on my own shoulders--or on his.

The doctor ate his breakfast quickly; and did not talk much to his niece. But what he did say
was of a nature to make her feel strangely happy. She could not analyse her own feelings, or
give a reason for her own confidence; but she certainly did feel, and even trust, that something
was going to happen after breakfast which would make her more happy than she had been for many
months.

"Janet," said he, looking at his watch, "if Mr Gresham and Mr Frank call, show them into my
study. What are you going to do with yourself, my dear?"

"I don't know, uncle; you are so mysterious, and I am in such a twitter, that I don't know
what to do. Why is Mr Gresham coming here--that is, the squire?"

"Because I have business with him about the Scatcherd property. You know that he owed Sir Louis
money. But don't go out, Mary. I want you to be in the way if I should have to call for you.
You can stay in the drawing-room, can't you?"

"Oh, yes, uncle; or here."

"No, dearest; go into the drawing-room." Mary obediently did as she was bid; and there she
sat, for the next three hours, wondering, wondering, wondering. During the greater part of
that time, however, she well knew that Mr Gresham, senior, and Mr Gresham, junior, were both
with her uncle, below.

At eleven o'clock the doctor's visitors came. He had expected them somewhat earlier, and was
beginning to become fidgety. He had so much on his hands that he could not sit still for a
moment till he had, at any rate, commenced it. The expected footsteps were at last heard on
the gravel-path, and a moment or two afterwards Janet ushered the father and son into the room.

The squire did not look very well. He was worn and sorrowful, and rather pale. The death of
his young creditor might be supposed to have given him some relief from his more pressing cares,
but the necessity of yielding to Frank's wishes had almost more than balanced this. When a
man has daily to reflect that he is poorer than he was the day before, he soon becomes worn
and sorrowful.

But Frank was well; both in health and spirits. He also felt as Mary did, that the day was
to bring forth something which should end his present troubles; and he could not but be happy
to think that he could now tell Dr Thorne that his father's consent to his marriage had been given.

The doctor shook hands with them both, and then they sat down. They were all rather constrained
in their manner; and at first it seemed that nothing but little speeches of compliment were
to be made. At last, the squire remarked that Frank had been talking to him about Miss Thorne.

"About Mary?" said the doctor.

"Yes; about Mary," said the squire, correcting himself. It was quite unnecessary that he should
use so cold a name as the other, now that he had agreed to the match.

"Well!" said Dr Thorne.

"I suppose it must be so, doctor. He has set his heart upon it, and God knows, I have nothing
to say against her--against her personally. No one could say a word against her. She is a sweet,
good girl, excellently brought up; and, as for myself, I have always loved her." Frank drew
near to his father, and pressed his hand against the squire's arm, by way of giving him, in
some sort, a filial embrace for his kindness.

"Thank you, squire, thank you," said the doctor. "It is very good of you to say that. She is
a good girl, and if Frank chooses to take her, he will, in my estimation, have made a good choice."

"Chooses!" said Frank, with all the enthusiasm of a lover.

The squire felt himself perhaps a little ruffled at the way in which the doctor received his
gracious intimation; but he did now show it as he went on. "They cannot, you know, doctor,
look to be rich people--"

"Ah! well, well," interrupted the doctor.

"I have told Frank so, and I think that you should tell Mary. Frank means to take some land
into his hand, and he must farm it as a farmer. I will endeavour to give him three, or perhaps
four hundred a year. But you know better--"

"Stop, squire; stop a minute. We will talk about that presently. This death of poor Sir Louis
will make a difference."

"Not permanently," said the squire mournfully.

"And now, Frank," said the doctor, not attending to the squire's last words, "what do you say?"

"What do I say? I say what I said to you in London the other day. I believe Mary loves me;
indeed, I won't be affected--I know she does. I have loved her--I was going to say always;
and, indeed, I almost might say so. My father knows that this is no light fancy of mine. As
to what he says about our being poor, why--"

The doctor was very arbitrary, and would hear neither of them on this subject.

"Mr Gresham," said he, interrupting Frank, "of course I am well aware how very little suited
Mary is by birth to marry your only son."

"It is too late to think about it now," said the squire.

"It is not too late for me to justify myself," replied the doctor. "We have long known each
other, Mr Gresham, and you said here the other day, that this is a subject as to which we have
been both of one mind. Birth and blood are very valuable gifts."

"I certainly think so," said the squire; "but one can't have everything."

"No; one can't have everything."

"If I am satisfied in that matter--" began Frank.

"Stop a moment, my dear boy," said the doctor. "As your father says, one can't have everything.
My dear friend--" and he gave his hand to the squire--"do not be angry if I alluded for a moment
to the estate. It has grieved me to see it melting away--the old family acres that have so
long been the heritage of the Greshams."

"We need not talk about that now, Dr Thorne," said Frank, in an almost angry tone.

"But I must, Frank, for one moment, to justify myself. I could not have excused myself in letting
Mary think that she could become your wife if I had not hoped that good might come of it."

"Well; good will come of it," said Frank, who did not quite understand at what the doctor was
driving.

"I hope so. I have had much doubt about this, and have been sorely perplexed; but now I do
hope so. Frank--Mr Gresham--" and then Dr Thorne rose from his chair; but was, for a moment,
unable to go on with his tale.

"We will hope that it is all for the best," said the squire.

"I am sure it is," said Frank.

"Yes; I hope it is. I do think it is; I am sure it is, Frank. Mary will not come to you empty-handed.
I wish for your sake--yes, and for hers too--that her birth were equal to her fortune, as her
worth is superior to both. Mr Gresham, this marriage will, at any rate, put an end to your
pecuniary embarrassments--unless, indeed, Frank should prove a hard creditor. My niece is Sir
Roger Scatcherd's heir."

The doctor, as soon as he made the announcement, began to employ himself sedulously about the
papers on the table; which, in the confusion caused by his own emotion, he transferred hither
and thither in such a manner as to upset all his previous arrangements. "And now," he said,
"I might as well explain, as well as I can, of what that fortune consists. Here, this is--no--"

"But, Dr Thorne," said the squire, now perfectly pale, and almost gasping for breath, "what
is it you mean?"

"There's not a shadow of doubt," said the doctor. "I've had Sir Abraham Haphazard, and Sir
Rickety Giggs, and old Neversaye Die, and Mr Snilam; and they are all of the same opinion.
There is not the smallest doubt about it. Of course, she must administer, and all that; and
I'm afraid there'll be a very heavy sum to pay for the tax; for she cannot inherit as a niece,
you know. Mr Snilam pointed that out particularly. But, after all that, there'll be--I've got
it down on a piece of paper, somewhere--three grains of blue pill. I'm really so bothered,
squire, with all these papers, and all those lawyers, that I don't know whether I'm sitting
or standing. There's ready money enough to pay all the tax and all the debts. I know that,
at any rate."

"You don't mean to say that Mary Thorne is now possessed of all Sir Roger Scatcherd's wealth?"
at last ejaculated the squire.

"But that's exactly what I do mean to say," said the doctor, looking up from his papers with
a tear in his eye, and a smile on his mouth; "and what is more, squire, you owe her at the
present moment exactly--I've got that down too, somewhere, only I am so bothered with all these
papers. Come, squire, when do you mean to pay her? She's in a great hurry, as young ladies
are when they want to get married."

The doctor was inclined to joke if possible, so as to carry off, as it were, some of the great
weight of obligation which it might seem that he was throwing on the father and son; but the
squire was by no means in a state to understand a joke: hardly as yet in a state to comprehend
what was so very serious in this matter.

"Do you mean that Mary is the owner of Boxall Hill?" said he.

"Indeed, I do," said the doctor; and he was just going to add, "and of Greshamsbury also,"
but he stopped himself.

"What, the whole property there?"

"That's only a small portion," said the doctor. "I almost wish it were all, for then I should
not be so bothered. Look here; these are the Boxall Hill title-deeds; that's the simplest part
of the whole affair; and Frank may go and settle himself there to-morrow if he pleases."

"Stop a moment, Dr Thorne," said Frank. These were the only words which he had yet uttered
since the tidings had been conveyed to him.

"And these, squire, are the Greshamsbury papers:" and the doctor, with considerable ceremony,
withdrew the covering newspapers. "Look at them; there they all are once again. When I suggested
to Mr Snilam that I supposed they might now all go back to the Greshamsbury muniment room,
I thought he would have fainted. As I cannot return them to you, you will have to wait till
Frank shall give them up."

"But, Dr Thorne," said Frank.

"Well, my boy."

"Does Mary know all about this?"

"Not a word of it. I mean that you shall tell her."

"Perhaps, under such very altered circumstances--"

"Eh?"

"The change is so great and so sudden, so immense in its effects, that Mary may perhaps wish--"

"Wish! wish what? Wish not to be told of it at all?"

"I shall not think of holding her to her engagement--that is, if--I mean to say, she should
have time at any rate for consideration."

"Oh, I understand," said the doctor. "She shall have time for consideration. How much shall
we give her, squire? three minutes? Go up to her Frank: she is in the drawing-room."

Frank went to the door, and then hesitated, and returned. "I could not do it," said he. "I
don't think that I understand it all yet. I am so bewildered that I could not tell her;" and
he sat down at the table, and began to sob with emotion.

"And she knows nothing of it?" said the squire.

"Not a word. I thought that I would keep the pleasure of telling her for Frank."

"She should not be left in suspense," said the squire.

"Come, Frank, go up to her," again urged the doctor. "You've been ready enough with your visits
when you knew that you ought to stay away."

"I cannot do it," said Frank, after a pause of some moments; "nor is it right that I should.
It would be taking advantage of her."

"Go to her yourself, doctor; it is you that should do it," said the squire.

After some further slight delay, the doctor got up, and did go upstairs. He, even, was half
afraid of the task. "It must be done," he said to himself, as his heavy steps mounted the stairs.
"But how to tell it?"

When he entered, Mary was standing half-way up the room, as though she had risen to meet him.
Her face was troubled, and her eyes were almost wild. The emotion, the hopes, the fears of
that morning had almost been too much for her. She had heard the murmuring of the voices in
the room below, and had known that one of them was that of her lover. Whether that discussion
was to be for her good or ill she did not know; but she felt that further suspense would almost
kill her. "I could wait for years," she said to herself, "if I did but know. If I lost him,
I suppose I should bear it, if I did but know."--Well; she was going to know.

Her uncle met her in the middle of the room. His face was serious, though not sad; too serious
to confirm her hopes at that moment of doubt. "What is it, uncle?" she said, taking one of
his hands between both of her own. "What is it? Tell me." And as she looked up into his face
with her wild eyes, she almost frightened him.

"Mary," he said gravely, "you have heard much, I know, of Sir Roger Scatcherd's great fortune."

"Yes, yes, yes!"

"Now that poor Sir Louis is dead--"

"Well, uncle, well?"

"It has been left--"

"To Frank! to Mr Gresham, to the squire!" exclaimed Mary, who felt, with an agony of doubt,
that this sudden accession of immense wealth might separate her still further from her lover.

"No, Mary, not to the Greshams; but to yourself."

"To me!" she cried, and putting both her hands to her forehead, she seemed to be holding her
temples together. "To me!"

"Yes, Mary; it is all your own now. To do as you like best with it all--all. May God, in His
mercy, enable you to bear the burden, and lighten for you the temptation!"

She had so far moved as to find the nearest chair, and there she was now seated, staring at
her uncle with fixed eyes. "Uncle," she said, "what does it mean?" Then he came, and sitting
beside her, he explained, as best he could, the story of her birth, and her kinship with the
Scatcherds. "And where is he, uncle?" she said. "Why does he not come to me?"

"I wanted him to come, but her refused. They are both there now, the father and son; shall
I fetch them?"

"Fetch them! whom? The squire? No, uncle; but may we go to them?"

"Surely, Mary."

"But, uncle--"

"Yes, dearest."

"Is it true? are you sure? For his sake, you know; not for my own. The squire, you know--Oh,
uncle! I cannot go."

"They shall come to you."

"No--no. I have gone to him such hundreds of times; I will never allow that he shall be sent
to me. But, uncle, is it true?"

The doctor, as he went downstairs, muttered something about Sir Abraham Haphazard, and Sir
Rickety Giggs; but these great names were much thrown away upon poor Mary. The doctor entered
the room first, and the heiress followed him with downcast eyes and timid steps. She was at
first afraid to advance, but when she did look up, and saw Frank standing alone by the window,
her lover restored her courage, and rushing up to him, she threw herself into his arms. "Oh,
Frank; my own Frank! my own Frank! we shall never be separated now."

CHAPTER XLVII

How the Bride Was Received, and Who Were Asked to the Wedding

And thus after all did Frank perform his great duty; he did marry money; or rather, as the
wedding has not yet taken place, and is, indeed, as yet hardly talked of, we should more properly
say that he had engaged himself to marry money. And then, such a quantity of money! The Scatcherd
wealth greatly exceeded the Dunstable wealth; so that our hero may be looked on as having performed
his duties in a manner deserving the very highest commendation from all classes of the de Courcy
connexion.

And he received it. But that was nothing. That he should be fêted by the de Courcys and Greshams,
now that he was about to do his duty by his family in so exemplary a manner: that he should
be patted on the back, now that he no longer meditated that vile crime which had been so abhorrent
to his mother's soul; this was only natural; this is hardly worthy of remark. But there was
another to be fêted, another person to be made a personage, another blessed human mortal about
to do her duty by the family of Gresham in a manner that deserved, and should receive, Lady
Arabella's warmest caresses.

Dear Mary! It was, indeed, not singular that she should be prepared to act so well, seeing
that in early youth she had had the advantage of an education in the Greshamsbury nursery;
but not on that account was it the less fitting that her virtue should be acknowledged, eulogised,
nay, all but worshipped.

How the party at the doctor's got itself broken up, I am not prepared to say. Frank, I know,
stayed and dined there, and his poor mother, who would not retire to rest till she had kissed
him, and blessed him, and thanked him for all he was doing for the family, was kept waiting
in her dressing-room till a very unreasonable hour of the night.

It was the squire who brought the news up to the house. "Arabella," he said, in a low, but
somewhat solemn voice, "you will be surprised at the news I bring you. Mary Thorne is the heiress
to all the Scatcherd property!"

"Oh, heavens! Mr Gresham."

"Yes, indeed," continued the squire. "So it is; it is very, very--" But Lady Arabella had fainted.
She was a woman who generally had her feelings and her emotions much under her own control;
but what she now heard was too much for her. When she came to her senses, the first words that
escaped her lips were, "Dear Mary!"

But the household had to sleep on the news before it could be fully realised. The squire was
not by nature a mercenary man. If I have at all succeeded in putting his character before the
reader, he will be recognised as one not over attached to money for money's sake. But things
had gone so hard with him, the world had become so rough, so ungracious, so full of thorns,
the want of means had become an evil so keenly felt in every hour, that it cannot be wondered
at that his dreams that night should be of a golden elysium. The wealth was not coming to him.
True. But his chief sorrow had been for his son. Now that son would be his only creditor. It
was as though mountains of marble had been taken from off his bosom.

But Lady Arabella's dreams flew away at once into the seventh heaven. Sordid as they certainly
were, they were not absolutely selfish. Frank would now certainly be the first commoner in
Barsetshire; of course he would represent the county; of course there would be the house in
town; it wouldn't be her house, but she was contented that the grandeur should be that of her
child. He would have heaven knows what to spend per annum. And that it should come through
Mary Thorne! What a blessing she had allowed Mary to be brought into the Greshamsbury nursery!
Dear Mary!

"She will of course be one now," said Beatrice to her sister. With her, at the present moment,
"one" of course meant one of the bevy that was to attend her at the altar. "Oh dear! how nice!
I shan't know what to say to her to-morrow. But I know one thing."

"What is that?" asked Augusta.

"She will be as mild and as meek as a little dove. If she and the doctor had lost every shilling
in the world, she would have been as proud as an eagle." It must be acknowledged that Beatrice
had had the wit to read Mary's character aright.

But Augusta was not quite pleased with the whole affair. Not that she begrudged her brother
his luck, or Mary her happiness. But her ideas of right and wrong--perhaps we should rather
say Lady Amelia's ideas--would not be fairly carried out.

"After all, Beatrice, this does not alter her birth. I know it is useless saying anything to
Frank."

"Why, you wouldn't break both their hearts now?"

"I don't want to break their hearts, certainly. But there are those who put their dearest and
warmest feelings under restraint rather than deviate from what they know to be proper." Poor
Augusta! she was the stern professor of the order of this philosophy; the last in the family
who practised with unflinching courage its cruel behests; the last, always excepting the Lady
Amelia.

And how slept Frank that night? With him, at least, let us hope, nay, let us say boldly, that
his happiest thoughts were not of the wealth which he was to acquire. But yet it would be something
to restore Boxall Hill to Greshamsbury; something to give back to his father those rumpled
vellum documents, since the departure of which the squire had never had a happy day; nay, something
to come forth again to his friends as a gay, young country squire, instead of as a farmer,
clod-compelling for his bread. We would not have him thought to be better than he was, nor
would we wish him to make him of other stuff than nature generally uses. His heart did exult
at Mary's wealth; but it leaped higher still when he thought of purer joys.

And what shall we say of Mary's dreams? With her, it was altogether what she should give, not
at all what she should get. Frank had loved her so truly when she was so poor, such an utter
castaway; Frank, who had ever been the heir of Greshamsbury! Frank, who with his beauty, and
spirit, and his talents might have won the smiles of the richest, the grandest, the noblest!
What lady's heart would not have rejoiced to be allowed to love her Frank? But he had been
true to her through everything. Ah! how often she thought of that hour, when suddenly appearing
before her, he had strained her to his breast, just as she had resolved how best to bear the
death-like chill of his supposed estrangements! She was always thinking of that time. She fed
her love by recurring over and over to the altered feeling of that moment. Any now she could
pay him for his goodness. Pay him! No, that would be a base word, a base thought. Her payment
must be made, if God would so grant it, in many, many years to come. But her store, such as
it was, should be emptied into his lap. It was soothing to her pride that she would not hurt
him by her love, that she would bring no injury to the old house. "Dear, dear Frank" she murmured,
as her waking dreams, conquered at last by sleep, gave way to those of the fairy world.

But she thought not only of Frank; dreamed not only of him. What had he not done for her, that
uncle of hers, who had been more loving to her than any father! How was he, too, to be paid?
Paid, indeed! Love can only be paid in its own coin: it knows of no other legal tender. Well,
if her home was to be Greshamsbury, at any rate she would not be separated from him.

What the doctor dreamed of that, neither he or any one ever knew. "Why, uncle, I think you've
been asleep," said Mary to him that evening as he moved for a moment uneasily on the sofa.
He had been asleep for the last three-quarters of an hour;--but Frank, his guest, had felt
no offence. "No, I've not been exactly asleep," said he; "but I'm very tired. I wouldn't do
it all again, Frank, to double the money. You haven't got any more tea, have you, Mary?"

On the following morning, Beatrice was of course with her friend. There was no awkwardness
between them in meeting. Beatrice had loved her when she was poor, and though they had not
lately thought alike on one very important subject, Mary was too gracious to impute that to
Beatrice as a crime.

"You will be one now, Mary; of course you will."

"If Lady Arabella will let me come."

"Oh, Mary; let you! Do you remember what you said once about coming, and being near me? I have
so often thought of it. And now, Mary, I must tell you about Caleb;" and the young lady settled
herself on the sofa, so as to have a comfortable long talk. Beatrice had been quite right.
Mary was as meek with her, and as mild as a dove.

And then Patience Oriel came. "My fine, young, darling, magnificent, overgrown heiress," said
Patience, embracing her. "My breath deserted me, and I was nearly stunned when I heard of it.
How small we shall all be, my dear! I am quite prepared to toady to you immensely; but pray
be a little gracious to me, for the sake of auld lang syne."

Mary gave a long, long kiss. "Yes, for auld lang syne, Patience; when you took me away under
your wing to Richmond." Patience also had loved her when she was in her trouble, and that love,
too, should never be forgotten.

But the great difficulty was Lady Arabella's first meeting with her. "I think I'll go down
to her after breakfast," said her ladyship to Beatrice, as the two were talking over the matter
while the mother was finishing her toilet.

"I am sure she will come up if you like it, mamma."

"She is entitled to every courtesy--as Frank's accepted bride, you know," said Lady Arabella.
"I would not for worlds fail in any respect to her for his sake."

"He will be glad enough for her to come, I am sure," said Beatrice. "I was talking with Caleb
this morning, and he says--"

The matter was of importance, and Lady Arabella gave it her most mature consideration. The
manner of receiving into one's family an heiress whose wealth is to cure all one's difficulties,
disperse all one's troubles, give a balm to all the wounds of misfortune, must, under any circumstances,
be worthy of much care. But when that heiress has been already treated as Mary had been treated!

"I must see her, at any rate, before I go to Courcy." said Lady Arabella.

"Are you going to Courcy, mamma?"

"Oh, certainly; yes, I must see my sister-in-law now. You don't seem to realise the importance,
my dear, of Frank's marriage. He will be in a great hurry about it, and, indeed, I cannot blame
him. I expect that they will all come here."

"Who, mamma? the de Courcys?"

"Yes, of course. I shall be very much surprised if the earl does not come now. And I must consult
my sister-in-law as to asking the Duke of Omnium."

Poor Mary!

"And I think it will perhaps be better," continued Lady Arabella, "that we should have a larger
party than we intended at your affair. The countess, I'm sure, would come now. We couldn't
put it off for ten days; could we, dear?"

"Put it off ten days!"

"Yes; it would be convenient."

"I don't think Mr Oriel would like that at all, mamma. You know he has made all his arrangements
for his Sundays--"

Pshaw! The idea of the parson's Sundays being allowed to have any bearing on such a matter
as Frank's wedding would now become! Why, they would have--how much? Between twelve and fourteen
thousand a year! Lady Arabella, who had made her calculations a dozen times during the night,
had never found it to be much less than the larger sum. Mr Oriel's Sundays, indeed!

After much doubt, Lady Arabella acceded to her daughter's suggestion, that Mary should be received
at Greshamsbury instead of being called on at the doctor's house. "If you think she won't mind
the coming up first," said her ladyship. "I certainly could receive her better here. I should
be more--more--more able, you know, to express what I feel. We had better go into the big drawing-room
to-day, Beatrice. Will you remember to tell Mrs Richards?"

"Oh, certainly," was Mary's answer when Beatrice, with a voice a little trembling, proposed
to her to walk up to the house. "Certainly I will, if Lady Arabella will receive me;--only
one thing, Trichy."

"What's that, dearest?"

"Frank will think that I come after him."

"Never mind what he thinks. To tell you the truth, Mary, I often call upon Patience for the
sake of finding Caleb. That's all fair now, you know."

Mary very quietly put on her straw bonnet, and said she was ready to go up to the house. Beatrice
was a little fluttered, and showed it. Mary was, perhaps, a good deal fluttered, but she did
not show it. She had thought a good deal of her first interview with Lady Arabella, of her
first return to the house; but she had resolved to carry herself as though the matter were
easy to her. She would not allow it to be seen that she felt that she brought with her to Greshamsbury,
comfort, ease, and renewed opulence.

So she put on her straw bonnet and walked up with Beatrice. Everybody about the place had already
heard the news. The old woman at the lodge curtsied low to her; the gardener, who was mowing
the lawn. The butler, who opened the front door--he must have been watching Mary's approach--had
manifestly put on a clean white neckcloth for the occasion.

"God bless you once more, Miss Thorne!" said the old man, in a half-whisper. Mary was somewhat
troubled, for everything seemed, in a manner, to bow down before her. And why should not everything
bow down before her, seeing that she was in truth the owner of Greshamsbury?

And then a servant in livery would open the big drawing-room door. This rather upset both Mary
and Beatrice. It became almost impossible for Mary to enter the room just as she would have
done two years ago; but she got through the difficulty with much self-control.

"Mamma, here's Mary," said Beatrice.

Nor was Lady Arabella quite mistress of herself, although she had studied minutely how to bear
herself.

"Oh, Mary, my dear Mary; what can I say to you?" and then, with a handkerchief to her eyes,
she ran forward and hid her face on Miss Thorne's shoulders. "What can I say--can you forgive
me my anxiety for my son?"

"How do you do, Lady Arabella?" said Mary.

"My daughter! my child! my Frank's own bride! Oh, Mary! oh, my child! If I have seemed unkind
to you, it has been through love to him."

"All these things are over now," said Mary. "Mr Gresham told me yesterday that I should be
received as Frank's future wife; and so, you see, I have come." And then she slipped through
Lady Arabella's arms, and sat down, meekly down, on a chair. In five minutes she had escaped
with Beatrice into the school-room, and was kissing the children, and turning over the new
trousseau. They were, however, soon interrupted, and there was, perhaps, some other kissing
besides that of the children.

"You have no business in here at all, Frank," said Beatrice. "Has he, Mary?"

"None in the world, I should think."

"See what he has done to my poplin; I hope you won't have your things treated so cruelly. He'll
be careful enough about them."

"Is Oriel a good hand at packing up finery--eh, Beatrice?" asked Frank.

"He is, at any rate, too well-behaved to spoil it." Thus Mary was again made at home in the
household of Greshamsbury.

Lady Arabella did not carry out her little plan of delaying the Oriel wedding. Her idea had
been to add some grandeur to it, in order to make it a more fitting precursor of that other
greater wedding which was to follow so soon in its wake. But this, with the assistance of the
countess, she found herself able to do without interfering with poor Mr Oriel's Sunday arrangements.
The countess herself, with the Ladies Alexandrina and Margaretta, now promised to come, even
to this first affair; and for the other, the whole de Courcy family would turn out, count and
countess, lords and ladies, Honourable Georges and Honourable Johns. What honour, indeed, could
be too great to show to a bride who had fourteen thousand a year in her own right, or to a
cousin who had done his duty by securing such a bride to himself!

"If the duke be in the country, I am sure he will be happy to come," said the countess. "Of
course, he will be talking to Frank about politics. I suppose the squire won't expect Frank
to belong to the old school now."

"Frank, of course, will judge for himself, Rosina;--with his position, you know!" And so things
were settled at Courcy Castle.

And then Beatrice was wedded and carried off to the Lakes. Mary, as she had promised, did stand
near her; but not exactly in the gingham frock of which she had once spoken. She wore on that
occasion-- But it will be too much, perhaps, to tell the reader what she wore as Beatrice's
bridesmaid, seeing that a couple of pages, at least, must be devoted to her marriage-dress,
and seeing, also, that we have only a few pages to finish everything; the list of visitors,
the marriage settlements, the dress, and all included.

It was in vain that Mary endeavoured to repress Lady Arabella's ardour for grand doings. After
all, she was to be married from the doctor's house, and not from Greshamsbury, and it was the
doctor who should have invited the guests; but, in this matter, he did not choose to oppose
her ladyship's spirit, and she had it all her own way.

"What can I do?" said he to Mary. "I have been contradicting her in everything for the last
two years. The least we can do is to let her have her own way now in a trifle like this."

But there was one point on which Mary would let nobody have his or her own way; on which the
way to be taken was very manifestly to be her own. This was touching the marriage settlements.
It must not be supposed, that if Beatrice were married on a Tuesday, Mary could be married
on the Tuesday week following. Ladies with twelve thousand a year cannot be disposed of in
that way: and bridegrooms who do their duty by marrying money often have to be kept waiting.
It was spring, the early spring, before Frank was made altogether a happy man.

But a word about the settlements. On this subject the doctor thought he would have been driven
mad. Messrs Slow & Bideawhile, as the lawyers of the Greshamsbury family--it will be understood
that Mr Gazebee's law business was of quite a different nature, and his work, as regarded Greshamsbury,
was now nearly over--Messrs Slow & Bideawhile declared that it would never do for them to undertake
alone to draw out the settlements. An heiress, such as Mary, must have lawyers of her own;
half a dozen at least, according to the apparent opinion of Messrs Slow & Bideawhile. And so
the doctor had to go to other lawyers, and they had again to consult Sir Abraham, and Mr Snilam
on a dozen different heads.

If Frank became tenant in tail, in right of his wife, but under his father, would he be able
to grant leases for more than twenty-one years? and, if so, to whom would the right of trover
belong? As to flotsam and jetsam--there was a little property, Mr Critic, on the sea-shore--that
was a matter that had to be left unsettled at the last. Such points as these do take a long
time to consider. All this bewildered the doctor sadly, and Frank himself began to make accusations
that he was to be done out of his wife altogether.

But, as we have said, there was one point on which Mary would have her own way. The lawyers
might tie up as they would on her behalf all the money, and shares, and mortgages which had
belonged to the late Sir Roger, with this exception, all that had ever appertained to Greshamsbury
should belong to Greshamsbury again; not in perspective, not to her children, or to her children's
children, but at once. Frank should be lord of Boxall Hill in his own right; and as to those
other liens on Greshamsbury, let Frank manage that with his father as he might think fit. She
would only trouble herself to see that he was empowered to do as he did think fit.

"But," argued the ancient, respectable family attorney to the doctor, "that amounts to two-thirds
of the whole estate. Two-thirds, Dr Thorne! It is preposterous; I should almost say impossible."
And the scanty hairs on the poor man's head almost stood on end as he thought of the outrageous
manner in which the heiress prepared to sacrifice herself.

"It will all be the same in the end," said the doctor, trying to make things smooth. "Of course,
their joint object will be to put the Greshamsbury property together again."

