I declare I am rather pleased there are so few atheists than at all anxious to make more. I
triumph in my superior light. I am like the Jew or the Bramin who equally think themselves
privileged in their superior knowledge of the Deity. With me and with my friend the comparison
holds by way of contrast, for we are so proud in our singularity of being atheists that we
will hardly open our lips in company, when the question is started for fear of making converts,
and so lessening our own enjoyment by a numerous division of our privilege with others. But now weighed heavy at all,
and there was added embarrassment when the gate came in. Eugene Sparre, who had left the late afternoon and
now returned.

Erasmus in tore. In his room he took one of the theological writings on hand, which he always carried
with him. But he could not collect his mind to read. It was late and he still sat brooding with
head propped, gray, umrißlosem thinking. Finally, he was overwhelmed by the sleep, when sitting.
There was a knock at the door, he did not hear.

It knocked again, and he shrank up, called, half in dream.

       

It was like a dream, entered as Sparre.

* * * * * The initial outrage Eugene rafters had not lasted long,
though Ferry Sponeck clumsily like a farmer had been.

Since he had felt the reluctance of Count Ungnad clear to him his behavior
was not so mysterious as his ambassador, the less, when Sponeck felt
impelled, in excuse of his friend on a delicate relationship between
him and the patient noted.

What are these people but for elephants, thought Sparre, as if this would insult the innocent.
"We can provisionally take any right, doting Ferry Sponeck, who did not know what to take sides,
he should, and between the old devotion to Erasmus and the admiring demons fear wavered that
drew him to Sparre, Erasmus was in a critical condition, pitiful
is remendy him ; whether Sparre think of chivalrous host? but unlikely?

If so, he would consult with George Ulrich Castellani, in any event, he, Ferry Sponeck, demonized in
a bind. Sparre laughed. No, because he thought not, he may give him satisfaction on the appropriate
form and wish to get them, as befitting for civilized people. He feels so little offended, as if
he stumbled over a tree root in the forest would be, "one was around," he said, "The next time you
pay attention. With insult that has nothing to do.

"What he said, shaking his head Ferry Sponeck for inordinately interesting
man. Sparre see through the bad actor and had indulgence.
 I shall discuss the question
no farther than as it is necessarily included in the discussion of some of those supposed results
of atheism, such as I have before mentioned in the instances of immorality, unhappiness and
timidity. In my argument upon this subject I shall carefully avoid all abuse and ridicule.
Controversies are apt to be acrimonious. You, Sir, have certainly shewn instances to the contrary.
You have charity beyond your fellows in the ecclesiastical line, and your answerers seem not
to me to have a right in fair argument to step out of the limits you have prescribed yourself.
To dispute with you is a pleasure equal almost to that of agreeing with another person. You
have candour enough to allow it possible that an atheist may be a moral man. Where is that
other ecclesiastic who will allow the same? Your answerers ought also to hold themselves precluded
from using ridicule in handling this subject. I am no great supporter of Lord Shaftesbury's
doctrine that ridicule is the test of truth. I own truth can never be ridiculous, that is,
it can never be worthy of laughter, but still it may be laughed at. To use the other term,
I may say, truth can never be worthy of ridicule, but still it may be ridiculed. Just ridicule
is a sufficient test of truth; but after all we should be driven to an inquiry, upon the principles
of reasoning, whether the ridicule were just or not. Boldness, which is not incompatible with
decency and candour, I do hold to be an absolute requisite in all speech and argument, where
truth is the object of inquiry. 

303.

Why do you object to them. - One often contradicts an opinion, while
we know, only the Tone in which it was argued that unsympathetic.

304.

Trust and confidentiality. - Whoever willfully confidentiality with another person seeks to enforce
is usually not sure whether he has their confidence. Who of trust is certainly puts on confidentiality
little value.

305.

Balance of friendship. - Sometimes versa, in the proportion of the
rest of us to a man, the right balance of friendship back when we
in our own scales some Gran wrong place.

306.

The most dangerous physicians. - The most dangerous physicians are
those who are the born imitate doctors as born actor with perfect
art of deception.

307.

When paradoxes are in order. - Mind you need rich people sometimes
in order for a winning record, the same present only in the form of
a monstrous paradox.

308.

How courageous people are won. - Courageous people we persuaded by an act that the same is more dangerous
than it is.

309.

Compliments. - Unpopular people, we expect the courtesies which they prove to us, for To pass.

310.

Serviced. - A sure way to raise the people and their evil thoughts
in the to set the head, is to let them wait long. This constitutes
immoral.

311.

Against the confidentiality. - People who give us
their complete confidence believe this a right of ours to have. Such
is a fallacy, is acquired through gifts no rights.

312.

Compensation
funds. - It is often sufficient to an other, which you have inflicted
a disadvantage opportunity to a joke about giving ourselves to him
personally to provide satisfaction, so for him to us well in tune.

313.

Vanity
of the tongue. - Whether man hides his bad qualities and vices or
with openness she admits, so desires but in both cases, his vanity,
an advantage experiencing any: note just how fine he is different,
from whom he hides those characteristics before whom he is honest
and sincere.

314. sincere.

314. Perhaps he may have cause to repent of his hardiness, but if
he has, he is equally resolved to glory in his martyrdom, as to suffer it. Whatever advantage
religion has had in the enumeration of it's martyrs, the cause of atheism may boast the same.
As to the instances of the professors of any particular form of religion, or modification of
that form, such as Christians or sects of Christians, suffering martyrdom for their belief,
I shall no more allow them to be martyrs for theism than Pagans similarly suffering for their
belief, shall I call martyrs for atheism. Theism very likely has had it's martyrs. I can instance
one I think in Socrates, and I shall mention Vanini as a martyr for atheism. The conduct of
those two great men in their last moments may be worth attending to. The variety of other poor
heretical wretches, who have been immolated at the shrine of absurdity for all the possible
errors of human credence, let them have their legendary fame. I put them out of the scale in
this important inquiry.

