One of the most picturesque methods of hunting the poor deer is called "floating." The person,
with murder in his heart, chooses a cloudy night, seats himself, rifle in hand, in a canoe,
which is noiselessly paddled by the guide, and explores the shore of the lake or the dark inlet.
In the bow of the boat is a light in a "jack," the rays of which are shielded from the boat
and its occupants. A deer comes down to feed upon the lily-pads. The boat approaches him. He
looks up, and stands a moment, terrified or fascinated by the bright flames. In that moment
the sportsman is supposed to shoot the deer. As an historical fact, his hand usually shakes
so that he misses the animal, or only wounds him; and the stag limps away to die after days
of suffering. Usually, however, the hunters remain out all night, get stiff from cold and the
cramped position in the boat, and, when they return in the morning to camp, cloud their future
existence by the assertion that they "heard a big buck" moving along the shore, but the people
in camp made so much noise that he was frightened off.

By all odds, the favorite and prevalent mode is hunting with dogs. The dogs do the hunting,
the men the killing. The hounds are sent into the forest to rouse the deer, and drive him from
his cover. They climb the mountains, strike the trails, and go baying and yelping on the track
of the poor beast. The deer have their established runways, as I said; and, when they are disturbed
in their retreat, they are certain to attempt to escape by following one which invariably leads
to some lake or stream. All that the hunter has to do is to seat himself by one of these runways,
or sit in a boat on the lake, and wait the coming of the pursued deer. The frightened beast,
fleeing from the unreasoning brutality of the hounds, will often seek the open country, with
a mistaken confidence in the humanity of man. To kill a deer when he suddenly passes one on
a runway demands presence of mind and quickness of aim: to shoot him from the boat, after he
has plunged panting into the lake, requires the rare ability to hit a moving object the size
of a deer's head a few rods distant. Either exploit is sufficient to make a hero of a common
man. To paddle up to the swimming deer, and cut his throat, is a sure means of getting venison,
and has its charms for some. Even women and doctors of divinity have enjoyed this exquisite
pleasure. It cannot be denied that we are so constituted by a wise Creator as to feel a delight
in killing a wild animal which we do not experience in killing a tame one.

The pleasurable excitement of a deer-hunt has never, I believe, been regarded from the deer's
point of view. I happen to be in a position, by reason of a lucky Adirondack experience, to
present it in that light. I am sorry if this introduction to my little story has seemed long
to the reader: it is too late now to skip it; but he can recoup himself by omitting the story.

Early on the morning of the 23d of August, 1877, a doe was feeding on Basin Mountain. The night
had been warm and showery, and the morning opened in an undecided way. The wind was southerly:
it is what the deer call a dog-wind, having come to know quite well the meaning of "a southerly
wind and a cloudy sky." The sole companion of the doe was her only child, a charming little
fawn, whose brown coat was just beginning to be mottled with the beautiful spots which make
this young creature as lovely as the gazelle. The buck, its father, had been that night on
a long tramp across the mountain to Clear Pond, and had not yet returned: he went ostensibly
to feed on the succulent lily-pads there. "He feedeth among the lilies until the day break
and the shadows flee away, and he should be here by this hour; but he cometh not," she said,
"leaping upon the mountains, skipping upon the hills." Clear Pond was too far off for the young
mother to go with her fawn for a night's pleasure. It was a fashionable watering-place at this
season among the deer; and the doe may have remembered, not without uneasiness, the moonlight
meetings of a frivolous society there. But the buck did not come: he was very likely sleeping
under one of the ledges on Tight Nippin. Was he alone?

The doe was feeding, daintily cropping the tender leaves of the young shoots, and turning from
time to time to regard her offspring. The fawn had taken his morning meal, and now lay curled
up on a bed of moss, watching contentedly, with his large, soft brown eyes, every movement
of his mother. The great eyes followed her with an alert entreaty; and, if the mother stepped
a pace or two farther away in feeding, the fawn made a half movement, as if to rise and follow
her. You see, she was his sole dependence in all the world. But he was quickly reassured when
she turned her gaze on him; and if, in alarm, he uttered a plaintive cry, she bounded to him
at once, and, with every demonstration of affection, licked his mottled skin till it shone again.

It was a pretty picture,--maternal love on the one part, and happy trust on the other. The
doe was a beauty, and would have been so considered anywhere, as graceful and winning a creature
as the sun that day shone on,--slender limbs, not too heavy flanks, round body, and aristocratic
head, with small ears, and luminous, intelligent, affectionate eyes. How alert, supple, free,
she was! What untaught grace in every movement! What a charming pose when she lifted her head,
and turned it to regard her child! You would have had a companion picture if you had seen,
as I saw that morning, a baby kicking about among the dry pine-needles on a ledge above the
Au Sable, in the valley below, while its young mother sat near, with an easel before her, touching
in the color of a reluctant landscape, giving a quick look at the sky and the outline of the
Twin Mountains, and bestowing every third glance upon the laughing boy,--art in its infancy.

The doe lifted her head a little with a quick motion, and turned her ear to the south. Had
she heard something? Probably it was only the south wind in the balsams. There was silence
all about in the forest. If the doe had heard anything, it was one of the distant noises of
the world. There are in the woods occasional moanings, premonitions of change, which are inaudible
to the dull ears of men, but which, I have no doubt, the forest-folk hear and understand. If
the doe's suspicions were excited for an instant, they were gone as soon. With an affectionate
glance at her fawn, she continued picking up her breakfast.

But suddenly she started, head erect, eyes dilated, a tremor in her limbs. She took a step;
she turned her head to the south; she listened intently. There was a sound,--a distant, prolonged
note, bell-toned, pervading the woods, shaking the air in smooth vibrations. It was repeated.
The doe had no doubt now. She shook like the sensitive mimosa when a footstep approaches. It
was the baying of a hound! It was far off,--at the foot of the mountain. Time enough to fly;
time enough to put miles between her and the hound, before he should come upon her fresh trail;
time enough to escape away through the dense forest, and hide in the recesses of Panther Gorge;
yes, time enough. But there was the fawn. The cry of the hound was repeated, more distinct
this time. The mother instinctively bounded away a few paces. The fawn started up with an anxious
bleat: the doe turned; she came back; she couldn't leave it. She bent over it, and licked it,
and seemed to say, "Come, my child: we are pursued: we must go." She walked away towards the
west, and the little thing skipped after her. It was slow going for the slender legs, over
the fallen logs, and through the rasping bushes. The doe bounded in advance, and waited: the
fawn scrambled after her, slipping and tumbling along, very groggy yet on its legs, and whining
a good deal because its mother kept always moving away from it. The fawn evidently did not
hear the hound: the little innocent would even have looked sweetly at the dog, and tried to
make friends with it, if the brute had been rushing upon him. By all the means at her command
the doe urged her young one on; but it was slow work. She might have been a mile away while
they were making a few rods. Whenever the fawn caught up, he was quite content to frisk about.
He wanted more breakfast, for one thing; and his mother wouldn't stand still. She moved on
continually; and his weak legs were tangled in the roots of the narrow deer-path.

Shortly came a sound that threw the doe into a panic of terror,--a short, sharp yelp, followed
by a prolonged howl, caught up and reechoed by other bayings along the mountain-side. The doe
knew what that meant. One hound had caught her trail, and the whole pack responded to the "view-halloo."
The danger was certain now; it was near. She could not crawl on in this way: the dogs would
soon be upon them. She turned again for flight: the fawn, scrambling after her, tumbled over,
and bleated piteously. The baying, emphasized now by the yelp of certainty, came nearer. Flight
with the fawn was impossible. The doe returned and stood by it, head erect, and nostrils distended.
She stood perfectly still, but trembling. Perhaps she was thinking. The fawn took advantage
of the situation, and began to draw his luncheon ration. The doe seemed to have made up her
mind. She let him finish. The fawn, having taken all he wanted, lay down contentedly, and the
doe licked him for a moment. Then, with the swiftness of a bird, she dashed away, and in a
moment was lost in the forest. She went in the direction of the hounds.

According to all human calculations, she was going into the jaws of death. So she was: all
human calculations are selfish. She kept straight on, hearing the baying every moment more
distinctly. She descended the slope of the mountain until she reached the more open forest
of hard-wood. It was freer going here, and the cry of the pack echoed more resoundingly in
the great spaces. She was going due east, when (judging by the sound, the hounds were not far
off, though they were still hidden by a ridge) she turned short away to the north, and kept
on at a good pace. In five minutes more she heard the sharp, exultant yelp of discovery, and
then the deep-mouthed howl of pursuit. The hounds had struck her trail where she turned, and
the fawn was safe.

The doe was in good running condition, the ground was not bad, and she felt the exhilaration
of the chase. For the moment, fear left her, and she bounded on with the exaltation of triumph.
For a quarter of an hour she went on at a slapping pace, clearing the moose-bushes with bound
after bound, flying over the fallen logs, pausing neither for brook nor ravine. The baying
of the hounds grew fainter behind her. But she struck a bad piece of going, a dead-wood slash.
It was marvelous to see her skim over it, leaping among its intricacies, and not breaking her
slender legs. No other living animal could do it. But it was killing work. She began to pant
fearfully; she lost ground. The baying of the hounds was nearer. She climbed the hard-wood
hill at a slower gait; but, once on more level, free ground, her breath came back to her, and
she stretched away with new courage, and maybe a sort of contempt of her heavy pursuers.

After running at high speed perhaps half a mile farther, it occurred to her that it would be
safe now to turn to the west, and, by a wide circuit, seek her fawn. But, at the moment, she
heard a sound that chilled her heart. It was the cry of a hound to the west of her. The crafty
brute had made the circuit of the slash, and cut off her retreat. There was nothing to do but
to keep on; and on she went, still to the north, with the noise of the pack behind her. In
five minutes more she had passed into a hillside clearing. Cows and young steers were grazing
there. She heard a tinkle of bells. Below her, down the mountain slope, were other clearings,
broken by patches of woods. Fences intervened; and a mile or two down lay the valley, the shining
Au Sable, and the peaceful farmhouses. That way also her hereditary enemies were. Not a merciful
heart in all that lovely valley. She hesitated: it was only for an instant. She must cross
the Slidebrook Valley if possible, and gain the mountain opposite. She bounded on; she stopped.
What was that? From the valley ahead came the cry of a searching hound. All the devils were
loose this morning. Every way was closed but one, and that led straight down the mountain to
the cluster of houses. Conspicuous among them was a slender white wooden spire. The doe did
not know that it was the spire of a Christian chapel. But perhaps she thought that human pity
dwelt there, and would be more merciful than the teeth of the hounds.

     "The hounds are baying on my track:
     O white man! will you send me back?"

In a panic, frightened animals will always flee to human-kind from the danger of more savage
foes. They always make a mistake in doing so. Perhaps the trait is the survival of an era of
peace on earth; perhaps it is a prophecy of the golden age of the future. The business of this
age is murder,--the slaughter of animals, the slaughter of fellow-men, by the wholesale. Hilarious
poets who have never fired a gun write hunting-songs,--Ti-ra-la: and good bishops write war-songs,--Ave
the Czar!

The hunted doe went down the "open," clearing the fences splendidly, flying along the stony
path. It was a beautiful sight. But consider what a shot it was! If the deer, now, could only
have been caught I No doubt there were tenderhearted people in the valley who would have spared
her life, shut her up in a stable, and petted her. Was there one who would have let her go
back to her waiting-fawn? It is the business of civilization to tame or kill.

The doe went on. She left the sawmill on John's Brook to her right; she turned into a wood-path.
As she approached Slide Brook, she saw a boy standing by a tree with a raised rifle. The dogs
were not in sight; but she could hear them coming down the hill. There was no time for hesitation.
With a tremendous burst of speed she cleared the stream, and, as she touched the bank, heard
the "ping" of a rifle bullet in the air above her. The cruel sound gave wings to the poor thing.
In a moment more she was in the opening: she leaped into the traveled road. Which way? Below
her in the wood was a load of hay: a man and a boy, with pitchforks in their hands, were running
towards her. She turned south, and flew along the street. The town was up. Women and children
ran to the doors and windows; men snatched their rifles; shots were fired; at the big boarding-houses,
the summer boarders, who never have anything to do, came out and cheered; a campstool was thrown
from a veranda. Some young fellows shooting at a mark in the meadow saw the flying deer, and
popped away at her; but they were accustomed to a mark that stood still. It was all so sudden!
There were twenty people who were just going to shoot her; when the doe leaped the road fence,
and went away across a marsh toward the foothills. It was a fearful gauntlet to run. But nobody
except the deer considered it in that light. Everybody told what he was just going to do; everybody
who had seen the performance was a kind of hero,--everybody except the deer. For days and days
it was the subject of conversation; and the summer boarders kept their guns at hand, expecting
another deer would come to be shot at.

The doe went away to the foothills, going now slower, and evidently fatigued, if not frightened
half to death. Nothing is so appalling to a recluse as half a mile of summer boarders. As the
deer entered the thin woods, she saw a rabble of people start across the meadow in pursuit.
By this time, the dogs, panting, and lolling out their tongues, came swinging along, keeping
the trail, like stupids, and consequently losing ground when the deer doubled. But, when the
doe had got into the timber, she heard the savage brutes howling across the meadow. (It is
well enough, perhaps, to say that nobody offered to shoot the dogs.)

The courage of the panting fugitive was not gone: she was game to the tip of her high-bred
ears. But the fearful pace at which she had just been going told on her. Her legs trembled,
and her heart beat like a trip-hammer. She slowed her speed perforce, but still fled industriously
up the right bank of the stream. When she had gone a couple of miles, and the dogs were evidently
gaining again, she crossed the broad, deep brook, climbed the steep left bank, and fled on
in the direction of the Mount-Marcy trail. The fording of the river threw the hounds off for
a time. She knew, by their uncertain yelping up and down the opposite bank, that she had a
little respite: she used it, however, to push on until the baying was faint in her ears; and
then she dropped, exhausted, upon the ground.

This rest, brief as it was, saved her life. Roused again by the baying pack, she leaped forward
with better speed, though without that keen feeling of exhilarating flight that she had in
the morning. It was still a race for life; but the odds were in her--favor, she thought. She
did not appreciate the dogged persistence of the hounds, nor had any inspiration told her that
the race is not to the swift.

She was a little confused in her mind where to go; but an instinct kept her course to the left,
and consequently farther away from her fawn. Going now slower, and now faster, as the pursuit
seemed more distant or nearer, she kept to the southwest, crossed the stream again, left Panther
Gorge on her right, and ran on by Haystack and Skylight in the direction of the Upper Au Sable
Pond. I do not know her exact course through this maze of mountains, swamps, ravines, and frightful
wildernesses. I only know that the poor thing worked her way along painfully, with sinking
heart and unsteady limbs, lying down "dead beat" at intervals, and then spurred on by the cry
of the remorseless dogs, until, late in the afternoon, she staggered down the shoulder of Bartlett,
and stood upon the shore of the lake. If she could put that piece of water between her and
her pursuers, she would be safe. Had she strength to swim it?

At her first step into the water she saw a sight that sent her back with a bound. There was
a boat mid-lake: two men were in it. One was rowing: the other had a gun in his hand. They
were looking towards her: they had seen her. (She did not know that they had heard the baying
of hounds on the mountains, and had been lying in wait for her an hour.) What should she do?
The hounds were drawing near. No escape that way, even if she could still run. With only a
moment's hesitation she plunged into the lake, and struck obliquely across. Her tired legs
could not propel the tired body rapidly. She saw the boat headed for her. She turned toward
the centre of the lake. The boat turned. She could hear the rattle of the oarlocks. It was
gaining on her. Then there was a silence. Then there was a splash of the water just ahead of
her, followed by a roar round the lake, the words "Confound it all!" and a rattle of the oars
again. The doe saw the boat nearing her. She turned irresolutely to the shore whence she came:
the dogs were lapping the water, and howling there. She turned again to the center of the lake.

The brave, pretty creature was quite exhausted now. In a moment more, with a rush of water,
the boat was on her, and the man at the oars had leaned over and caught her by the tail.

"Knock her on the head with that paddle!" he shouted to the gentleman in the stern.

The gentleman was a gentleman, with a kind, smooth-shaven face, and might have been a minister
of some sort of everlasting gospel. He took the paddle in his hand. Just then the doe turned
her head, and looked at him with her great, appealing eyes.

"I can't do it! my soul, I can't do it!" and he dropped the paddle. "Oh, let her go!"

"Let H. go!" was the only response of the guide as he slung the deer round, whipped out his
hunting-knife, and made a pass that severed her jugular.

And the gentleman ate that night of the venison.

The buck returned about the middle of the afternoon. The fawn was bleating piteously, hungry
and lonesome. The buck was surprised. He looked about in the forest. He took a circuit, and
came back. His doe was nowhere to be seen. He looked down at the fawn in a helpless sort of
way. The fawn appealed for his supper. The buck had nothing whatever to give his child,--nothing
but his sympathy. If he said anything, this is what he said: "I'm the head of this family;
but, really, this is a novel case. I've nothing whatever for you. I don't know what to do.
I've the feelings of a father; but you can't live on them. Let us travel."

The buck walked away: the little one toddled after him. They disappeared in the forest.

V. A CHARACTER STUDY

There has been a lively inquiry after the primeval man. Wanted, a man who would satisfy the
conditions of the miocene environment, and yet would be good enough for an ancestor. We are
not particular about our ancestors, if they are sufficiently remote; but we must have something.
Failing to apprehend the primeval man, science has sought the primitive man where he exists
as a survival in present savage races. He is, at best, only a mushroom growth of the recent
period (came in, probably, with the general raft of mammalian fauna); but he possesses yet
some rudimentary traits that may be studied.

It is a good mental exercise to try to fix the mind on the primitive man divested of all the
attributes he has acquired in his struggles with the other mammalian fauna. Fix the mind on
an orange, the ordinary occupation of the metaphysician: take from it (without eating it) odor,
color, weight, form, substance, and peel; then let the mind still dwell on it as an orange.
The experiment is perfectly successful; only, at the end of it, you haven't any mind. Better
still, consider the telephone: take away from it the metallic disk, and the magnetized iron,
and the connecting wire, and then let the mind run abroad on the telephone. The mind won't
come back. I have tried by this sort of process to get a conception of the primitive man. I
let the mind roam away back over the vast geologic spaces, and sometimes fancy I see a dim
image of him stalking across the terrace epoch of the quaternary period.

