"That same night in the hotel I was introduced to a dragoman, whom we engaged to take us about.
I am sure you will like to hear about Salim, for, apart from himself, he had a great claim
to attention, for he had been Gordon's dragoman years ago when he was in Egypt.  Yes!  I knew
that would interest you, and you would have loved Salim for his own sake too.  He had a gentle,
sad face, with the beautiful dark eyes of the Eastern, and he spoke English remarkably well.
He was unmarried, and lived with his mother and a married brother.  Sixteen years he and his
sister-in-law had lived in the same house, but he had never seen her face.  He had been unlucky
in money matters, but accepted his poverty with the placid acquiescence of the Oriental.  I
remember one day when he told me of a piece of good fortune which had befallen a fellow- dragoman,
and I said that I hoped he might be similarly fortunate.  He bowed his head with quiet dignity,
and waved a brown hand in the air. `That is with God, sahib--that is with God!'  I used to
question him about Gordon, and he loved to talk of him.  `He was a good man, sahib, better
than any bishop.  When we were camping in the desert he was up every morning before it was
light, kneeling to pray before his tent, and his heart was so great that he could not bear
to see anyone in trouble. I must always keep with me a bag with small moneys, and he would
not wait to be asked.  Everyone who needed must be helped.  When he went away he gave me his
two best horses, but my heart was sore.  He was a great chief--a great chief; but I heard afterwards
that when he came to die he was quite poor--the same as Christ!'"

Hilliard told a story well, and now, as he repeated the words, his voice softened into the
deep cadence of the Eastern tones, in which they had first been said; his hand waved and his
eye kindled with emotion.

Esmeralda looked at him, and her heart gave a throb of admiration.  The manner in which he
had spoken was unmistakably reverent, and if young men only knew it, there is nothing which
a girl loves more than a mingling of manliness and reverence in the man who singles her out
for attention.

"He is a good man; I like him," was the mental comment.  Aloud she said dreamily, "Gordon is
my hero.  I love to hear about him.  He was too generous to others to heap up money for himself.
I suppose he didn't care about it.  I wish I didn't, but I do.  It's so very distressing to
be always short of money.  All the good people in books are poor, but for myself I think it's
bad for the temper.  They talk about the peril of riches, but I should like to try it for myself,
wouldn't you, Mr Hilliard?"

Hilliard smiled--a quiet, amused smile.

"Well, I don't know.  Everything is comparative.  If some people would think us poor, others
would most certainly consider us very rich indeed. We have all that we need, and for myself
I'm quite content.  I manage to have a very good time."

"And you get away for holidays like this.  That must make it easier. Have you to work very
hard?  What is your work?  In what way do you make your living?"

Once more Hilliard smiled in amusement, and in truth there was a directness about Esmeralda's
questionings which was as unusual as it was unconscious.  He put up his hand and stroked one
end of his curly moustache.

"Glue!"

"Glue!" echoed Esmeralda shrilly.

"Glue!" shrieked Pixie in even shriller echo.

The two pairs of eyes were fixed upon him in horrified incredulity.  The pity, the commiseration
of their expressions was touching to behold.

"Oh, poor fellow!" sighed Esmeralda softly.  "You must be poor!  How can anyone manage to make
a living out of--glue?"

"But you know, Esmeralda darling, it is useful!  We break such heaps of things ourselves. 
We often use it," urged Pixie anxiously; and at this her sister brightened visibly.

"We do.  That's true for you, Pixie.  Perhaps it's your glue we use, Mr Hilliard.  Dear me,
it will be quite cheering when we break anything after this!  We shall feel we are helping
a friend by our misfortune."

"That's very kind of you.  I'll remember that you said that, and it will cheer me too," replied
Hilliard gallantly, and at that very moment a sound came to the ears of all.  "The gong!  It
must be tea-time.  They are sounding it to let us hear.  I hope I have not kept you out too long."

Ten minutes later they were all seated in the hall enjoying tea and scones, while Bridgie smiled
sweetly on their flushed, animated faces.

"You look well after your walk," she said.  "And what did Mr Hilliard think of our tame ruins?"

Pixie looked at Esmeralda; Esmeralda looked at Mr Hilliard; Mr Hilliard looked at his boots.
One and all they had forgotten all about the ruins!

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE.

THE UNWRITTEN PAGE.

The New Year gathering was a great success, and justified Esmeralda's boast that she would
organise an entertainment which should be both original and striking.  Mademoiselle was not
admitted to the secret conferences, for she was to be surprised with the other guests; but
she could not shut her ears, and would not have done so if she could, for the sound of the
music which rose to her ears was too melodious to lose. One and all the O'Shaughnessys possessed
beautiful singing voices, and though the carols which they rehearsed were simple in themselves,
they were practised with a care which made them a joy to hear.  Over and over again the Major
made his choir repeat a certain phrase, until the diminuendo or crescendo was rendered to his
satisfaction, until opening and closing notes sounded together to the instant, and due expression
was given to every mark.  Music he loved, and over music would spend time and trouble which
he would have grudged in almost every other way; but he rubbed his hands with satisfaction
when the last rehearsal was over, and boasted gleefully that for carol-singing not many choirs
could be found to beat his own.

By eight o'clock the girls were dressed and strutting up and down the hall to exhibit themselves
to the gaze of their companions.  Bridgie wore her coming-out dress--not so white as it had
once been, but carefully chalked at the worst places, and swathed in lovely old lace round
the shoulders.  Esmeralda sported a pink moire dress which had once belonged to her mother,
with a voluminous sash of white muslin, since nothing more elaborate was to hand, a wreath
of roses out of last summer's hat pinned over one shoulder, with all the crunched-up leaves
ironed out smooth and flat, and white gloves cleaned with benzoline until you could hardly
tell them from new.  She was a vision of elegance, or looked so at least to the ordinary observer;
for when a girl is eighteen, and a beauty at that, she is bound to look charming, whatever
be her clothes.

At nine o'clock the guests were asked, and the hour had barely struck before they began to
arrive.  The sound of horses' feet was heard from without, wheels drew up before the door,
and in they came, one party after another, having driven across country in the cold and the
dark for five, for six, and in one instance for ten long miles, but arriving fresh and radiant
for all that, and brimming over with good humour. Mademoiselle thought that she had not seen
such a merry assembly since leaving her own dear land, or heard such a babel of tongues.  Everyone
seemed to know everyone else, and to be on terms of closest intimacy and affection; everyone
talked at once and exclaimed with rapture and admiration at the preparations for the entertainment.
It was easy to amuse such a company, and dancing and games were carried on with gusto in the
long drawing-room, which had been prepared for the occasion, and looked comparatively festive
with great fires burning in the fireplaces at either end.

Soon after eleven o'clock the different members of the O'Shaughnessy family began to slip out
of the room, but almost before their absence was noted, the Major was ringing a bell to attract
attention and marshalling the company to the far end of the room.  At the same signal two servants
entered the room, turned out the lamps, and drew aside the curtains from the mullioned windows,
through which the grounds could be seen, lying white and still in the moonlight.  There was
a rustle of expectation among the guests, for evidently something was about to happen, something
appropriate to the day and the hour, yet what it could be no one had the ghost of an idea.
That was the best of those dear O'Shaughnessys, a smiling lady confided to Geoffrey Hilliard--no
one could tell what they would be up to next!  They were different from everybody else, and
their ways were so much more amusing and charming than the ordinary stereotyped usages of society.

Hilliard agreed with fervour, and found an additional proof of the assertion as, one by one,
a picturesque band of carollers entered the room by the farthest door and took up their position
in a semicircle facing the audience.  They were uniformly robed in black, with cowl-like hoods
hanging loosely round the face, and each bore a stick, on the end of which waved a brilliant
Japanese lantern.  The lights lit up the features of the singers, and seldom indeed had "the
beautiful O'Shaughnessys" appeared to greater advantage than at this moment. Jack's handsome
features and commanding stature made him appear a type of young manhood, Miles for once forgot
to grimace, and Pat's misleading air of innocence was even more guileless and touching than
usual.  As for the girls, Esmeralda looked like a picture by Rossetti, and Bridgie's halo of
golden hair was more bewitching than ever in its sombre setting.  No one looked at Pixie until
the signal was given and the choristers burst into song, when she came in for even more than
her own share of admiration, for the treble solos were without exception given to her to sing,
and the piercing sweetness of the young voice moved some of the more emotional of the audience
to surreptitious tears.

Several carols were sung, interspersed with part-songs suitable to the occasion, and then the
singers formed up in rank two and two, and at the Major's request the guests followed their
example, making a long procession in the rear.  Another song was started, something slow and
plaintive in tone, its subject being the dying year, with regret for all that it had brought
of joy and gladness, and to its strains the procession started on a strange and charming expedition.
Down one long corridor, unlit save by the cold light from without and the warm flicker of lantern
ahead along a deserted wing, where dust lay thick on the walls and the faces of departed ancestors
looked down sadly from their tarnished frames, finally down the circular staircase, from which
Esmeralda had had her first glimpse of Geoffrey Hilliard, and so into the great hall beneath.
At the end farthest from the door the Major halted, raised one hand, and called aloud in slow,
solemn tones.

"Prithee, silence!" he said.  That was all--"Prithee, silence!" and at the sound there was
another flutter of excitement among the guests.  The hands of the clock pointed to four minutes
to twelve, and it was evident that the last item in the charming programme was about to take
place. Ladies moved about on tiptoe, mounting the first steps of the staircase, or standing
on stools to ensure a better view.  Men moved politely to the rear.  There was a minute's preoccupation,
and when the general gaze was once more turned to the doorway, it was seen that a significant
change had taken place in the scene.

Against a background of screens stood the figure of an old man--a very old man, it would appear,
since his back was bowed and his head and beard white as the snow on the ground outside.  His
brown cloak hung in tatters, and he leant heavily upon his staff.  A deep-toned "Ah-h!" sounded
through the assembly, and showed that the onlookers were at no loss to understand the character
which he was intended to represent. "The Old Year," murmured one voice after another.

Then a solemn hush fell over all as the clock ticked out the last minutes, and through the
opened door came a blast of icy air and a few flakes of snow, blown inwards by the wind.  Only
another minute, and then there it came--the slow, solemn chiming of the clock on the tower.
One, two, three.  Good-bye, Old Year!  What if you have brought troubles in your wake, you
have brought blessings too, and sunny summer hours! Four, five, six--Dear old friend, we are
sorrier to part with thee than we knew!  We have not appreciated thee enough, made enough of
thy opportunities.  If we have ever reproached thee, thou hast cause to reproach us now.  Seven,
eight, nine.  Going so soon?  We were used to thee, and had been long companions, and of the
new and untried there is always a dread.  Good-bye, Old Year!  Take with thee our blessings
and our thanks, our sorrowful regrets for all wherein we have been amiss. Ten, eleven, twelve.

It is here!  The New Year has come, and to greet its arrival such a clashing of bells, such
an outburst of strange and jangling sounds as fairly deafened the listening ears.  Molly, grinning
from ear to ear, was running the broom-handle up and down the row of bells outside the servants'
hall.  Mike was belabouring the gong as if his life depended on his exertions.  The stable-boy
was blowing shrilly through a tin whistle, and the fat old cook was dashing trays of empty
mustard-tins on the stone floor, and going off into peals of laughter between each movement.

Perhaps it was owing to the stunning effect of this sudden noise that what had happened at
the doorway seemed to have something of the quickness of magic to the astonished onlookers,
but a good deal of the credit was still due to the castors, on which the screens had been mounted,
to an ingenious arrangement of strings, and to many and careful rehearsals.  Certain it is
that, whereas at one moment the figure of the Old Year was visible to all, at the next he had
disappeared, and the sound of that last long chime had hardly died away before another figure
stood in his place.  No need to ask the name of the visitor.  It was once more patent to the
most obtuse beholder.  A small, girlish figure with dark locks falling loosely over the shoulders,
with a straight white gown reaching midway between the knees and the ankles, and showing little
bare feet encased in sandals.  A few white blossoms were held loosely in one hand, and in the
other a long white scroll--the page on which was to be inscribed the history of an untried path.

Pixie's face was white and awed, for the solemnity of the occasion and the poetry of the impersonation
alike appealed to her emotional nature, and there was an expression upon the plain little face
which was more impressive than any mere pink and white prettiness, as more than one of the
onlookers remarked with astonishment.

"Who could have believed that that child could look like that?" cried Geoffrey Hilliard to
Mademoiselle, and that young lady tossed her head with an impatient movement.

"Why not, pray?  If Pixie is not pretty, she is something better--she is spirituelle!" for
it had come to this, that Mademoiselle could not endure to hear Pixie adversely criticised,
and resented a depreciating remark as hotly as if it had had reference to herself.

At this point the formal programme came to an end, and the guests hurried forward to shake
hands with their hosts and thank them over and over again for the entertainment which they
had provided, while the choristers shed their monk-like robes, (nothing after all but mackintosh
cloaks with hoods cut out of black calico!) and appeared once more in evening dress.  The way
was led to the dining-room, where refreshments were spread out on the long table, and there
was much drinking of healths and exchanging of good wishes for the New Year.  Everyone was
hungry and happy, and Mademoiselle's cakes and jellies were much appreciated; but Esmeralda
sighed as she looked around, and ate sandwiches with such a pensive air that Hilliard demanded
the reason of her depression.

"This!" she sighed, holding out the half-eaten fragment, on which was plainly circled the mark
of small white teeth.  "It hurts my sense of fitness.  We should have had boar's head and venison,
and a sheep roasted whole.  We have some lovely old silver dishes which would have held them,
but--" the "but" was significant, and she raised her beautiful shoulders with a shrug--"those
days have departed.  We have to be content with sandwiches now."

"There's no limit to one, surely," Hilliard replied gravely.  "We will keep this plate to ourselves,
for I am prepared to eat a very good half, and you must be hungry after your exertions.  I
can't tell how much I have enjoyed this evening.  It will stand out in my memory as unlike
any other I have ever spent.  I shall often recall it when I am back in town."

"When--when are you going back?" asked Esmeralda, with an anxiety which she made no effort
to conceal.  "Not very soon, I hope.  Jack goes to- morrow, and that is quite enough at one
time.  Oh, I do hate the end of the Christmas season!  Everyone seems to go away.  In a fortnight
or so Pixie will be off, and Mademoiselle with her.  It has been so delightful having a visitor
in the house, and she has been so kind and useful.  She made most of the things on the table
to-night,--all those pretty iced cakes."

"Ah, yes!  Very clever, I'm sure," said Hilliard absently.  It was easy to see that he had
no attention to spare for Mademoiselle or her confectionery, and presently he added in a lower
tone, "There is no immediate hurry for my return.  I can just as well stay another three or
four days, but I must be back in town before this day week.  I fear there is no getting out
of that."

"Glue?" queried Esmeralda saucily.  They were sitting together at a little table behind most
of the other guests, and she lay back in her chair looking up at him with a roguish smile.  "Glue?"

"Glue principally.  It is a very--er--engrossing occupation," returned Hilliard, nobly resisting
the inclination to pun; "but I think it could manage without me for a few days longer, and
perhaps we could have another ride together.  There is a meet somewhere near the day after
to- morrow.  Shall you be there?"

Esmeralda hesitated, seized with a sudden mysterious disinclination to say "No," a desperate
longing to say "Yes," and yet--and yet,--how could it decently be done?

"I--don't know!  It's Bridgie's turn.  We have only one horse between us, and I have been the
last three times.  I don't like to ask her again.  It seems so mean."

"But if you did ask, she would let you go.  She would not mind taking her turn later on?"

"Oh no, or not at all, for the matter of that.  There's nothing Bridgie wouldn't give away
if anyone else wanted it.  She's an angel.  It's just because she's so sweet that I'm ashamed
to be selfish."

"I can understand that, but--just for once!  If you were to ask her very nicely to change places
with you this time, because--because--er--"-- Hilliard hesitated and pulled his moustache in
embarrassment--"because you--"

"Yes, that's just it.  What can I say?  Because what?" laughed Esmeralda gaily, then suddenly
met the gaze of a pair of deep blue eyes, twinkling no longer, but fixed upon her in intent,
earnest scrutiny, and flushed in mysterious embarrassment.

"Because it was my last chance, and I had asked you especially to be there.  Because I had
stayed on purpose to have another ride with you! That's the true reason, so far as I am concerned.
I am sure, if you told Miss Bridgie the truth, she wouldn't have the heart to say No."

Esmeralda looked down at the table and crumbled bread thoughtfully.  She was by no means so
sure.  Bridgie was enough of a mother to take fright at such an open declaration of interest.
She would not be so rash as to repeat the conversation verbatim, but go to that meet she would,
let Bridgie refuse ten times over, let every horse disappear from the stable.  Go she would,
if she had to borrow the pedlar's pony and ride barebacked all the way.  Such was the mental
decision; aloud she said languidly--

"Don't know, I'm sure!  Perhaps I may be too tired.  I'll see when the time comes," and stretched
out her hand to beckon Pixie to her side.

Hilliard smiled quietly.  He had an extraordinary way of seeing through Esmeralda's pretences,
and he welcomed Pixie as genially as if the tete-a-tete were of no consequence in his eyes.

"Well, little white New Year, are you coming to sit down beside us? Have you had no supper
yet?  I am sure you must be hungry after all your exertions.  Let me wait upon you now, in
return for all the pleasure you have given me by your charming singing."

But no, Pixie refused to sit down or to eat any of the good things pressed upon her.  For once
in her life jellies and creams, even meringues themselves, failed to tempt her appetite, for
she was feasting on an even sweeter diet--that of unlimited flattery and praise.  As she strolled
to and fro among the guests she was greeted on every side with words of commendation for her
singing, her charming impersonation of the character assigned to her, and by the more facetious
members of the party implored to smile kindly upon them, to promise them her favour, and to
remember their especial desires.  It was not likely that she was going to sit down in a corner
of the room with no one but her sister and that stupid Mr Hilliard, who did nothing but stare
at Esmeralda, as if he had never seen a girl before.  She shook her head as he pointed to a
chair, but lingered a moment to allow him to examine her costume and pay the proper tribute
of praise.

"It's charming--quite charming--so simple, and yet so effective.  Those few loose flowers are
much better than a formal bouquet, and the scroll--who made the scroll?  It is most professional,
and I see you have a pencil hanging by the side,--white,--to match the rest."  He lifted it
as he spoke, and made as though about to write, but at that Pixie drew back in dismay.

"No, you mustn't!  Be careful,--you must be careful.  It won't rub out."

She walked hastily away, and the two who were left looked at each other, half sad, half smiling,
for the words went home with a meaning deeper than any which the speaker had intended to convey.

"Be careful.  It won't rub out," repeated Hilliard slowly.  "That's a good motto for the New
Year.  I don't know that one could have a better. I shall remember that, and the scroll all
white and unmarked.  I wonder what will be written there before the year is done?"

"A great deal, I hope--a great many happenings.  I am tired of jogging along in the same old
way.  I would like a sensational headline in big print, and that as soon as possible!" cried
Esmeralda recklessly.

Poor Esmeralda!  The day was near at hand when she recalled her words, and winced at the remembrance
in sorrow and misery.

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

THE LAST RUN.

"Me dear," said Bridgie to Mademoiselle, the next morning, showing all her dimples at once
in the most mischievous of smiles, "what do you think Mr Hilliard said to me last night before
he left?  He has made arrangements to stay a few days later to have another ride with the hounds.
He believed it would be a very good meet on Thursday, and how wonderfully my sister did ride,
to be sure.  It's my belief he started with the intention of asking me to let Esmeralda go
in my place, but I looked so innocent at him that he hadn't the heart.  `Indeed,' I said, `she
did so, and I feared he would think I made but a poor show in comparison.'  Wasn't it cruel
of me now, and the poor thing looking at me speechless, with those lovely, humbugging eyes!
I had to turn away and laugh in a corner, but I wouldn't relent, for, says I to myself, if
I have to give up my run, I'll get some fun another way--and it is amusing, isn't it now, when
a man shows you so plainly that he doesn't want you?"

"Indeed that is a form of humour I do not understand!" returned Mademoiselle, with her nose
in the air.  "But you will give way, of course--that goes without saying--and let Esmeralda
go once again.  You will not stand out to the end!"

"How could I?  Suppose it was myself, and--someone I told you about. How should I feel if I
had the chance of seeing him, and she would not allow me?  I believe they are really beginning
to care for each other, and he is a nice man.  I should like him well enough."

"A week ago you were alarmed at the thought!  I confess he makes on me a pleasant impression,
but surely you know very little about him, and it is rather rash to accept him at once as a
possible suitor.  What do you know beyond that he is handsome, and appears amiable and kind?"

"His uncle was one of the Hilliards of Nanabeg.  My father knew him well, and he was a fine,
old-fashioned gentleman.  That was what made this Mr Geoffrey come here for the hunting.  He
had heard his uncle speak of Bally William, and the Trelawneys take paying guests for the hunting
season, so he arranged to come to them.  He is not very well off, I'm afraid, for Joan tells
me that he has to make his money out of glue, poor creature!  But he must be nice, if he is
the old squire's nephew."

Mademoiselle's eyes rolled upward with an eloquent glance.  It was a new article of faith that
a nephew must needs be exemplary because his uncle had been a popular country squire, but she
held her peace and amused herself by watching the play which went on between the two sisters
during the next twenty-four hours.  Esmeralda was plainly anxious and ill at ease, and made
tentative allusions to the coming meet, which Bridgie received with bland obtuseness.  She
had not the courage to make her request in so many words, but instead brought forward a succession
of gloomy prophecies calculated to dampen expectation in the mind of any but the most enthusiastic
rider.

"It will be a heavy run to-morrow," she said, shaking her head dismally as she glanced out
of the window on the quickly melting snow.  "I wouldn't wonder if it poured with rain!  It's
a fine draggled set the women will look before they get home."

"I prefer the ground soft, and as for sunshine, it's a thing I detest,-- dazzling your eyes,
and the poor mare's into the bargain.  Dull weather and a cloudy sky is what I hope to see,
and for once it looks as if I should get my wish."

"Well, it's good weather you need, to get safely over that country.  Mr O'Brien was saying
only last season that it was the worst we had.  There are some nasty bits of water this side
of Roskillie, and they will be swollen with all this snow.  Now next week over at Aughrin it
really will be pleasant and comfortable."

"I'm so glad, darling!  I hope you will enjoy it!"  Bridgie put her head on one side, with
a smile of angelic sweetness.  Then, as Esmeralda flounced from the room in disgust, turned
back to Mademoiselle, laughingly penitent.

