And when, some two hours later, after a short warning rap on the door, the individual who served
as Mr. Torrance's attendant entered his room, he was confronted, not by the gentleman whose
dinner he carried, but by an empty room, a stripped bed, an open window, and a rope of sheets
dangling from it toward the ground two stories beneath.

That was at seven o'clock in the evening.

CHAPTER II

The Crash

At a few minutes before eight o'clock, Air Mail Pilot Steve Chapman was enjoying a quiet cigarette
while waiting for the mechanics to warm up the five hundred horses of his mail plane satisfactorily.
Halfway through, he heard, from behind, a quick patter of feet, and, turning, he observed a
figure clad in flannel trousers and sweater. The cigarette dropped right out of his mouth as
he cried:

"Ken! Ken Torrance!"

"Thank God you're here!" said Kenneth Torrance. "I gambled on it. Steve, I've got to borrow
your own personal plane."

"What?" gasped Steve Chapman. "What--what--?"

"Listen, Steve. I haven't been with the whaling company lately; been resting, down here--secluded.
Didn't know that submarine, the Peary, was missing. I just learned. And I know damned well
what's happened to it. I've got to get to it, quick is I can, and I've got to have a plane."

Steve Chapman said rather faintly:

"But--where was the Peary when they last heard from her?" Two or three beautiful indigenous horses, strong, sturdy and patients compose
the shot, and the ornaments are light and funny. The postilion above all a kind Curious about
his attitude and official uniform, they seem to amalgamate the military and the harlequin. A tight
pants, blue cloth with yellow stripes, which reaches to the knees and set under two varnished
boots, a yellow vest or red cloth, on which is a microscopic sucks tailed, lined with wide
lapels and cuffs and large red shiny metal buttons, a patent leather or felt hat, cup long, narrow
and pointed and decorations, a very long foetida, and a raw clarion aside, make clothing and the trappings
of a prince of the Swiss diligence. This curious uniform, leading to laugh, contrasts with
the military air Seriot the chubby character, who from his throne on high street is announced to arrive
at the locations or out of them, and relay stations, with sharp taps of his bugle and the rattle
of their foetid longer producing foreign echoes in the mountains and forests of the road.

For the rest, the postilion Swiss, who understand that your guy is
a public official is noted for his kindness, his intelligence in driving
the vehicle and the regularity for all their acts, free of brutality.

The Swiss official so at all scales: attentive, polite, laconic, honest and true to its slogan.
There in its regularity and precision something that reminds the soldiers (because in Switzerland,
everyone is bound to military service); as restrained in their behavior is something that keeps
the rate of the free citizen, educated by the principle of equality.

The road, after leaving a suburb Neuchâtel town of beautiful villas and cheerful gardens, skirting
the lake shore in the direction to the north, bends to N.-E., crosses
the river Thiele (artery of reunion between two hydrographic vessels
of the body of the country), short swamp the narrow isthmus that mediates
between the lakes (Neuchâtel and Biel) and begins to climb, in direction
to the east, a succession of inclined planes and hills hilly, almost
dawning the northern end of Lake Morat.

Except in the flat part of the isthmus, always exposed to floods, cultivation of the vine is almost
exclusively on the banks of such high bit lakes. The horizon is long and melancholy here, especially
at the twilight of the evening, which produces three mirror smooth lakes, whose poetry encouraged
to quit wandering spirit in the world of dreams sweetly sad.

The three lakes, together with many similarities in appearance, are navigated by steamers, boats and
feluccas. The Biel (Bieler-See), almost all contained in Bernese territory, is unique in its
graceful island of San-Pedro who illustrated their utopian residence immortal John James in 1765.
Biel length does not exceed 14 kilometers per 3-1/2 latitude, with 434 meters height above sea
level and 70 deep

.
 But he concocted a plausible yarn to account
for his arrival, and they had fed him and given him a berth in the bunkhouse for the night.

For the night! Ken Torrance grinned as he recalled the scene. In the middle of the night he
had risen, quickly awakened four of the sleeping men, and with his gun forced them to take
a torpoon from the outpost's storehouse and put it inside the amphibian's passenger compartment.

It was robbery, and of course they'd thought him insane, but they didn't dare cross him. He
had told them cheerfully he was going after the Peary, and that if they wanted the torpoon
back they were to direct the searching planes to keep their eyes on the place where the submarine
was last heard from....

       *       *       *       *       *

Ken came back to the present abruptly as the plane lurched. The wind was getting nasty. At
least he did not have much farther to go; an hour's flying time would take him to his goal,
where he must descend into the water to continue his search. His search! Had it been, he wondered,
a useless one from the start? Had the submarine's crew been killed before he'd even read of
her disappearance? If the sealmen got them, would they destroy them immediately?

"I doubt it," Ken muttered to himself. "They'd be kept prisoners in one of those mounds, like
I was. That is, if they haven't killed any of the creatures. It hangs on that!"

An hour's time, he had reckoned; but it was more than an hour. For soon the world was blotted
out by a howling dervish of wind and driven snow that time and time again snatched the amphibian
from Ken's control and hurled it high, or threw it down like a toy toward the inferno of sea
and ice he knew lay beneath. He fought for altitude, for direction, pitched from side to side,
tumbled forward and back, gaining a few hundred feet only to feel them plucked breathtakingly
out from under him as the screaming wind played with him.

Now and again he snatched a glance at the torpoon behind. The gleaming, twelve-foot, cigar-shaped
craft, with its directional rudders, propeller, vision-plate and nitro-shell gun lay safely
secured in the passenger compartment, a familiar and reassuring sight to Ken, who, as first
torpooner of the Narwhal, had worked one for years in the chase for killer whales. Soon, it
seemed, he would have to depend on it for his life.

For all the Diesel's power, it was not enough to cope with the dead weight of ice which was
forming over the plane's wings and fuselage. He could not keep the altimeter up. However he
fought, Ken saw that finger drop down, down--up a trifle, quivering as the racked plane quivered--and
then down and down some more.

He saw that the plane was doomed. He would have to abandon it--in the torpoon--if he could.

He was some thirty miles from his objective. The sea beneath would be half hidden under ragged,
drifting floes. In fair weather he could have chosen a landing space of clear water, but now
he could not choose. The altitude dial said that the water was three hundred feet beneath,
and rapidly rising nearer.

A margin of seconds in which to prepare! Ken locked the controls and scrambled back into the
passenger compartment. Steadying himself on the bucking floor, he opened the torpoon's entrance
port and slid in; quickly he locked the port and strapped the inner body harness around him;
and then he waited.

Now it was all chance. If the plane crashed into clear water, he was safe; but if she hit ice....
He put that thought from him.

The locked controls held the amphibian for perhaps thirty seconds. Then with a scream the storm-giant
took her. A mad up-current of wind hurled her high, whirled her dizzily, toyed with her--and
then she spun and dove. Down, down, down; down with a speed so wild Ken grew faint; down through
the core of a maelstrom of snow till she crashed.

Kenneth Torrance knew a sudden shaking impact; for an instant there was uncertainty; and then
came all-pervading quiet....

CHAPTER III.

The Fate of the Peary

Quiet, and utter, liquid darkness.

Liquid! Around him, Ken heard a gurgling, at first loud and close, then subsiding to a low
whispering of currents. The amphibian had hit water.

Gone in an instant was the shriek and fury of the storm and in its place the calm, slow-heaving
silence of underwater. The plane was shattered in a dozen places, but the torpoon had easily
stood it.

Ken turned to action. He switched on the torpoon's dashboard lights and twin bow-beams, and
saw that the shell was wedged in the fuselage. The plane was apparently entirely under the
surface, and her interior filled with water.

Holding the propeller in neutral, he revved up the powerful electric motor. Then he bit the
propeller in, slowly. The torpoon nudged back for inches. Then, throwing the gear into forward,
Ken gave her full speed. The torpoon leaped ahead, crunched through the weakened corner ahead
and was free.

It was a world of drab tones that she came into. Down below was impenetrable blackness, shading
softly overhead into blue-gray which was mottled by lighter areas from breaks in the floes
above. All was calm. There was no sign of life save for an occasional vague shadow that, melting
swiftly away, might have been a fish or seaweed. They will return. Do not give excessive praise for this can awaken the greed of friends.
God only knows how many want to hinder, beat me and conquer me! I am not especially fond of
either. I do not believe in sudden passion. I have extraordinary curiosity though. Each of
these is beautiful in it's own way-full of style, full of its yet to be known elegance. I can't
decide between the brunette or the blonde. I can't make a decision.
This indecision makes me so desire to see them both again. He could not possibly reach
any outpost of civilization in the torpoon, for her cruising radius was only twenty hours.
He had planned to land the amphibian on the ice above the spot where the Peary had disappeared,
then find a break in the ice and slide down below in the torpoon on his quest--to return to
the plane if it proved fruitless. But now there was no retreat. It was succeed, or die.

And with that realization a more dreadful thought flashed into his mind. All those men, of
the whaling company and the sanitarium, thought him a little crazy. And, since lunatics are
always convinced of the reality of their visions, what if the sealmen--his adventure amidst
them--had been but a dream, a nightmare, an hallucination? What if he were in truth crazy?
The fear grew rapidly. "I will find them."

He justified the work that was ongoing in Condesito, and the way the work
would be carried out. The Seville was unknown.

The ignorant could assume that they would be Malaga. Creatures, half-seal,
half-men, living under the ice--it certainly seemed a lunatic's obsession.

Then something within him rose and fought back.

