No wonder foreigners are puzzled by our theatre. The Parisian sees a Palais Royal farce played
before an audience of which many members are girls in the bread-and-butter stage. In his great
city maidens are--or, at least, were--not allowed to enter the theatre so long famous for its
naughty farces. He gasps; he wonders whether the English mees is as innocent as she looks--or
used to look--and does not know the perfide tongue of the perfide Albion well enough to be
aware that nothing shocking is said, and that it is pretended that the cocotte is a mere kindly
friend, the collage a trifling flirtation, the debauche a viceless lark, and that the foulest
conduct of husband or wife does not reach a real breach of the commandment more often broken
in England than the rest of the sacred ten.

The real sin of the Censor's office lies as much in what it permits as in what it forbids;
and a growing sense of decency in the public is displacing prudery so that the abolition of
the office will not cause the ill-results announced by the managers, who regard the existence
of the Censor as valuable to them, because it frees them from responsibility and enables them
to gratify the taste of the prurient prude, the person who revels in and blushes at the indelicacy
of his own thoughts.

Moral Effect on Audience

There was quite a pretty hubbub in theatredom caused by a circular letter of "The Church Pastoral
Aid Society," calling upon incumbents and curates to regard theatrical performances as "a serious
menace to the spiritual influence of the Church," and suggesting that in future they should
refuse to take money raised by means of theatrical performances, or by bazaars or whist-drives
or dances. Of course, all people connected with the theatres were very indignant at the insult
implied; whilst, on the other hand, many parsons and Nonconformist ministers rushed into print
and said very unflattering things about the stage.

The matter certainly had considerable public importance, and deserved to be considered in cold
blood; and one may well raise, and attempt to answer, the plain question whether the Church
is right or wrong in adopting an attitude of hostility towards the stage. The question of gratitude
has been put forward, but is not really relevant: no doubt players and managers in the past
have been very liberal with their services for charitable purposes, including matters specifically
connected with churches, and although very often the actual motive of the liberality has been
the desire for advertisement and notoriety--and the desire is natural and blameless--yet it
is fair to assume that in many instances the real motive has been truly charitable. It is,
however, obvious that a person might steal with the object of giving the money to a church
restoration fund, and clearly his intention would not excuse his act nor enable the Church
to endorse it. The plain question is whether the stage "makes for righteousness."

Into the very thorny question raised some years ago by Clement Scott with disastrous consequences
to himself as to whether the stage is demoralizing to the actors and actresses we do not now
propose to venture. Much has been said and written on the topic, but it is largely one of fact,
which demands the examination of a great deal of evidence. For the moment, then, let us merely
discuss the question whether the effect of the stage on the audience is good or bad: in many
cases there is no appreciable effect at all, and they may be eliminated.

Now, it must be admitted by all, save the extreme Puritans, that not only are there a great
number of harmless pieces, but also many entirely moral in scope and aim, and likely to produce
some good effect upon playgoers; but there are others. No doubt the famous George Barnwell
has gone out of date, and the Dick Turpin and Jack Sheppard plays, which did a great deal of
harm, are not presented often in our days. Nevertheless there are so many pieces still produced
which in one way or another are injurious to playgoers as to render it fairly arguable that
the effect of the stage as a whole is bad.

So long as religion enjoins the virtue of chastity, its professors must look with hostility
upon the very numerous pieces in which women, young and beautiful, are presented in dresses
radically immodest. It seems impossible to deny that the sexual instincts of young men are
often provoked to an extreme degree by the sight upon the stage of beautiful, half-nude young
women; and it must be remembered that the spectacle is frequently accompanied by music of an
erotic character. There is not the least doubt that the lighter musico-dramatic works and the
pantomimes, in consequence of these matters, are the direct and immediate cause of many acts
which religious people regard as acts of sexual immorality. The degree of nudity, of display
of the human form in our theatres, and, of course, music-halls as well, to those unaccustomed
to such matters is certainly quite startling, and by many people such displays are regarded
as being entirely demoralizing to hot-blooded young men. It is, therefore, not surprising that
there are religious people who have no objection to innocent amusements or to drama as drama,
yet regard the theatre as causing a great deal of immorality in the way already indicated.

The Censor, not the present occupant of the post, at one time interfered and dealt with the
question of costume at the Lyceum in the pre-Irving days, but his efforts were a failure, and,
as far as is publicly known, have not been renewed since. Lately the degree of nudity considered
permissible has been largely increased. The Salome dancers built a bridge of beads across what
was regarded as a fixed gulf: it is difficult for stern moralists to stomach the danse du ventre.

The next aspect of the matter is that the tendency of the stage, broadly speaking, is to preach
a kind of conventional morality somewhat below the standard considered admissible by serious
people; one may go further, and say that plays have been produced, particularly French plays,
such as the clever works of M. Capus, in which the accepted ideas of the sanctity of marriage
are treated with contempt. Some works of this character have been translated and played at
first-class theatres, and in popular dramas of the Zaza and Sapho type we were invited to grieve
over the disappointments in lawless love of women quite shameless in character.

For years past a large proportion of plays have concerned themselves with the question of the
seventh commandment; and whilst, as a rule, in order to dodge the Censor, it is pretended that
no actual breach has occurred, the audience know that this is merely a pretence. In a large
number of these plays the question of adultery is handled so facetiously as to tend to cause
people to regard it as a trivial matter; whilst in numbers of the others, where the matter
is handled more seriously, the actual consequences of sin are of such little inconvenience
to the sinners that, although theoretically the plays preach a moral, the actual lesson is
of no weight at all.

A curious aspect of the matter is that theatredom, as appears from the bulk of the evidence
before the Censorship Commission, is opposed to the class of play in which the proposition
is preached that "the wages of sin is death." Plays like Ghosts and A Doll's House--as far
as the episode of Nora's hopeless lover is concerned--and the works of that fierce moralist
M. Brieux are banned by most of official theatredom, and some of them are censored. In fact,
the whole note of the theatre is that gloomy or painful matters should be excluded. It is not
too much to say that the theatre insists strongly upon being regarded simply as a place of
entertainment, and objects almost savagely to dramas which really show sin as ugly and vice
as harmful, both to the vicious and innocent; it refuses to be a moralizing institution, and
those who seek to justify such an attitude do so by claiming that it is a branch of art and
not morals.

No doubt there are exceptions. We have had Everyman upon the stage, and The Passing of the
Third Floor Back, in which the highest morality is preached, and in The Fires of Fate Sir Arthur
Conan Doyle made a sincere effort to use the stage for noble purposes; nor would it be difficult
to multiply instances. Moreover, it may be claimed that the dramas of Shakespeare, on the whole,
have a high standard of morality which might satisfy the Church, and they play a considerable
part on our modern stage; yet, speaking with a really substantial knowledge of the subject,
one may say confidently that, despite much that is good and admirable, the balance is seriously
to the bad. Our theatre does a little good and a great deal of harm.

It is possible that views such as these may be in the minds of those who wrote the circular
of the Church Pastoral Aid Society, and if so they were justified in writing. If, on the other
hand, they were merely actuated by the Puritanic idea that drama and the theatre are necessarily
immoral, we strongly dissent, for the drama might be made a very powerful influence for good,
and this renders the more regrettable the fact that, although in some respects there is a little
advance towards the good, it is very slow, and it is doubtful whether the balance will be turned
in our time. There is a greater advance in art than in morality as far as the theatre is concerned,
but even in art the progress is very disappointing.

An Advantage of French Dramatists

There are many people who entertain the idea that modern French drama is better than modern
English drama; and from this it seems a natural deduction that the French playwrights of to-day
are abler than their contemporary English dramatists. A study of the large collection of French
plays produced at the New Royalty Theatre by M. Gaston Mayer, as well as those presented under
other managements during the last few years, and some knowledge of those which have not crossed
the unamiable Channel, causes me to wonder. The careless may make the mistake of comparing
the imported French pieces with the average English plays; this, of course, is absurd, since
only the successful foreign works are played over here; consequently, for purposes of fair
comparison, one must eliminate not only our failures but our plays of average merit. Even after
the process of elimination has been made there lurks the danger of error, for when comparing
the efforts of our playwrights with those of Paris one is making a comparison between men working
under a heavy handicap and men unburdened by it. There is a whole world, or at least a whole
half-world, open freely to the French writer into which the English dramatist is only permitted
to crawl furtively. A large proportion of the foreign works in question, if faithfully translated
and presented in London, would cause a howl of horror, based on the proposition that some of
them are immoral and some are indelicate, and many both.

No sane people pretend to agree with the observation of some celebrated person, to the effect
that anybody can be witty who is willing to be indecent; it is not more universally true than
the proposition that no one can be witty unless he condescends to be indecent. Nevertheless
there is something in it. Many real witticisms are indecent; some profoundly immoral plays
are brilliant, and it is doubtful whether the authors of them would have been as successful
if forbidden to be indecent or immoral.

Let us contrast fairly the positions of the French and the English dramatist. The former has
at his disposal all the material for drama available to the latter, except perhaps a limited
particular branch of local humour, whilst the Englishman not only would be unwise to employ
the foreign local humour, but is forbidden to use a very large number of subjects and ideas
open to his competitor. In other words, the Englishman's stock may be regarded as x, and the
Frenchman's as x + y, for the local humour on one side may be set off against the local humour
on the other.

Now y, far from being unimportant, is the chief material employed by many of the Parisian playwrights.
They and their audiences have grown tired of x, whilst our unhappy writers are almost bound
to confine themselves to this far from unknown quantity. Thackeray is said to have regretted
that he did not enjoy the freedom of a Fielding. Which of our playwrights does not envy the
licence of a Capus? Think of our poor British dramatist compelled to write for a public that
likes anecdotal plays, demands happy-ever-after endings and is easily shocked. Really his position
is pitiful. The peculiar laws of the theatre require such brutal directness of method that
although our novelists are able, by means of delicate treatment, to handle almost any subject,
the playwright is condemned to something like a gin-horse revolution, round a little track
of conventional morality.

It is a rather curious fact that two different schools of French dramatists approach the forbidden
half-world from opposite poles--but they get there. Emile Augier and Dumas fils were sincere
moralists according to their points of view, though the methods of their moralizing some times
seem quaint to us. Both of them preached the importance of chastity and the beauty of conjugal
love and parental and filial affection, and each admired fervently the idea of family--an idea
deemed comparatively unimportant in our colonizing country.

On the whole their ideals are ours, though sometimes there seems to us a queer twist in their
expression of them. In order to support their ideas of social and family life and their view
of the sanctity of true marriage they were forced to exhibit the perils caused by lawless passion,
and frequently their works, as in such extreme instances as Le Mariage d'Olympe and La Femme
de Claude, which has the memorable preface with the Tue la phrase, deal candidly with very
ugly matters.

Their successors, putting aside such men as Brieux and Hervieu--whose intentions are strictly
honourable--may pretend to be moralists, but they adopt an impudently unconventional attitude.
They seem to modify the phrase that "property is theft" into the proposition that "marriage
is a selfish monopoly." We have had play after play apparently based upon a merely sensual
idea of free love. Like their predecessors they handle mud, and they handle it as Walton bade
the angler handle the frog when using it as bait. Some of them seem to have no prejudice in
favour of people who try to exercise decent self-restraint. Without pleading their cause, one
must point out that in the domain of lawless passion there are hundreds of thrilling or vastly
comic situations at the command of the dramatist, whether he be moralist or simply boulevardier.
No wonder then that there seem to be far more original plays in France than in England.

The advantage of the foreigners is even greater in the matter of dialogue than subject. With
the aid of tact and certain elaborate conventions the English dramatist is able to handle many
of his competitor's themes and has contrived to adapt some of his forward, if hardly advanced,
plays and by ridiculous changes decidedly emasculating them, has succeeded in presenting a
sort of version of a number of the saucy farces. The dialogue baffles him.

It cannot be denied that a great deal of the dialogue of French plays is very funny, rather
shocking, and not exactly gross. As a rule the more distinguished writers avoid the tone of
the joyeusetés of an Armand Sylvestre, a writer capable of using bluntly without acknowledgement
the crudest of Chaucer's tales and also of writing beautiful poetry quite free from offence;
but even when the humbler gauloiseries are neglected the finer indelicacy is employed, and
the men laugh and ladies pretend to put up their fans. Nobody, perhaps, is at all worse, for
the jeune fille is only taken to carefully selected plays, except at the seaside, where in
the casino she attends performances of works that in Paris she would not be allowed to see;
and, moreover, there is truth in what a French manager once shrewdly observed--"Those who can't
understand the jokes won't be hurt, and those who can, can't." The dramatic critic has the
right of considering the views expressed in it concerning the stage. There are two essays of
importance, from reading which one may learn the ideas, admirably expressed, of Mr Irving concerning
his art--"The English Stage in the Eighteenth Century" and "The Art and Status of the Actor."
The study of them, which they deserve, leads to certain conclusions hardly, it may be, anticipated
by the author.

In his defence of the actor's art against its detractors Mr Irving seems to ignore a fact which
may be expressed in a phrase taken from the greatest of actor-dramatist-managers, and modified.
There is acting and acting: the distinction is not merely in quality but also in kind. It would
be difficult to define acting so as not to include the efforts of the music-hall artist, and
even of the circus clown; any definition excluding them would be arbitrary, and also historically
inaccurate. If, then, acting is to embrace these as well as the admirable performance of Mr
Irving in Hamlet, disputes concerning the status of the actor as an artist must often arise.

In fact, until one reaches the actor's performance in dramas sincerely intended to be works
of art, it is difficult to treat his art seriously. A step farther: one cannot accept as a
work of dramatic art a piece that does not seek to cause an illusion, or any play which formally
admits the existence of the audience. A workable distinction may be found in using the terms
"drama" and "entertainment," "actor" and "entertainer."

Mr Irving's essays lead to another distinction--artificial, no doubt. He speaks of the sixteenth
century as "the century of great drama," of the seventeenth as "a century in which the interest
shifts from the drama to its exponents, the players." The nineteenth, according to him, is
"noteworthy for the extraordinary advance made in the presentation of plays on the stage."
In other words, the seventeenth is great drama, the eighteenth great acting, and the nineteenth
great stage-mounting.

The seventeenth, says Mr Irving, "is in theatrical history the century of the actor; he and
not the dramatist is the dominating figure, his the achievement that survives, his that finds
in this century its highest opportunity for distinction.... For the plays that attracted audiences
in the eighteenth century are for the most part dead things." Later on: "There was another
and a very strong reason why the actor of the eighteenth century was encouraged--nay, driven--to
exert his powers to the utmost. It lay in the conditions under which he was compelled to exercise
his art."

These conditions were unsuitability of costume, the conduct of an unruly audience, and the
meanness of the mounting. The eighteenth-century players pursued "the pure art of acting, unassisted
by the collaboration of other arts," and in them their art received its highest expression.

From this it appears that if you wish for great acting you must have poor plays cheaply mounted.
Probably Mr Irving would shun such a conclusion. He would say that the great acting was the
result of the conditions, but not an inevitable result, and that whilst modesty of mounting
may be a necessary condition, worthlessness of drama is not. Yet we see a distinction and a
truth emerging. The actors of the golden age--of acting--had to make silk purses out of sows'
ears, and they made them. Their age was less golden when they had great drama to play.

The triumph of a play, so far as the co-operation of author and actor is concerned, may be
regarded as one hundred, and the greater the share in it of the one the less that of the other.
Since the actor's proportion is higher as the dramatist's is lower, it follows that his work
is more brilliant in mediocre plays than in masterpieces. This, however, cannot be accepted
without taking into account the fact that many plays have been written very skilfully as mere
vehicles for the actor.

It is sometimes a nice question which is the horse and which the cart. How often in the heyday
of her fame did we see Bernhardt in any save "built-up" dramas--plays "written round" her and
intended to give her an opportunity of showing off her amazing physical gifts? Need it be added
that the "star" actresses of other nations were all eager to appear in these pieces? Is, then,
the actor's art at its greatest when the player is thrilling the house in a mediocre drama,
or when he and the true dramatist are producing a great effect together?

Mr Irving will probably reply that the actors of the golden age had great triumphs in Shakespeare.
Now, it may be observed that in most of his tragedies, though not guilty of writing "star"
parts, Shakespeare, himself an actor, took very great pains to create "fat" acting parts, and
the actor-managers of the eighteenth century were careful that, in the mutilated versions which
they presented, these parts did not shrink in relative importance. The great dramatist's action
in this respect is not, as a general rule, followed by the serious playwrights of the present.

Whilst speaking of Shakespeare, one may refer to a passage in the essays which has some bearing
on the question of the place of acting in the hierarchy of the arts. Garrick clearly was the
greatest actor of his century; but in speaking of Barry, Mr Irving says: "He had not Garrick's
fire or versatility; he had no gift for comedy; but in such parts as Othello, Romeo and Alexander
the Great his superior physique, his stately grace, his charming pathos gave him the victory."
His superior physique is a phrase which explains the reluctance of some fully to admit the
actor's claim for his art: they think that the purely physical enters too often into the matter.
There may even be detractors moved by jealousy, unknown, perhaps, to themselves, of the "superior
physique."

Possibly there are more subtle reasons why many writers are unwilling to recognize the highest
claims of the actor. They are perhaps, discernible in what Mr Irving calls "the sympathetic
reflections of Charles Lamb" and the "impressive nonsense that Doctor Johnson talked" about
acting. In one of the essays we find: "There has been at all times a certain resentment on
the part of some writers against the player, against his immediate fame.... It is a form of
jealousy that has warped many otherwise enlightened minds: an envy that forgets that a capacity
to act is a much rarer gift than a capacity to write." What is the meaning of the last sentence.
Does it mean that Garricks are rarer than Tuppers?--a sad thought: or that Siddonses are rarer
than Shakespeares?--which may be denied confidently.

Does it mean anything? Perhaps not. It merely exhibits a confusion between the relative and
the absolute. This warping jealousy--if it exist--really is due to a feeling that the actor
becomes great in popularity at the expense of the author. When the actor causes the triumph
of the play the author should be grateful; when the play causes the triumph of the actor the
playwright may feel a little jealous, and writers may sympathize with him. There are plays
and plays, just as there is acting and acting. In subtle modern pieces conscientious actors
of fair ability rarely fail, and success (within certain limits) is common in Hamlet.

Mr Bourchier and "Max" on English Acting

Mr Bourchier has written rather bitterly about some remarks of Mr Max Beerbohm concerning English
acting. Apparently "Max" has asserted that "the average level of acting is admittedly lower
in England than in France, Germany or Italy." Hence Mr Bourchier's wrath, which obviously is
unselfish, since remarks about the average level of acting have nothing to do with him, for
no country is rich enough in histrionic talent to deny that Mr Bourchier is far above the average.

Is Mr Max Beerbohm's assertion well founded? The "admittedly" inspires distrust. Experience
teaches the middle-aged that as a rule people allege that a proposition is admitted when they
have no evidence to offer of its truth, and are aware that it will be disputed. Does anyone
exist who knows really what is the average level of acting in the four countries named? Such
knowledge could only be based upon a first-hand study of acting in all kinds of theatres in
many towns of England, France, Germany and Italy. A music-hall agent is the only kind of person
likely to have made such a study. Has Mr Max made it?

Probably the clever caricaturist and lively critic is really talking about the so-called West
End theatres and the foreigners who come to us, and of occasional visits paid by him to selected
pieces in important Continental cities. If so, his observations are based upon quite insufficient
materials. Critics are wont to praise foreign acting unfairly at the expense of our own performers,
and they receive the support of opinions expressed by some foreigners, notably French and Italians.

Members of gesticulative races are apt to think English players very wooden, because when representing
British people our actors and actresses are much restrained in movement. A French or Italian
critic can hardly appreciate some of the splendid "Stage Society" or Court Theatre performances,
such, for instance, as that of The Voysey Inheritance, which could not have been surpassed
in any theatre or country.

The offensive comparisons often, even generally, are based upon performances where our players
are at a serious disadvantage. On what may be called neutral ground, such as Ibsen plays, we
have held our own very well against any performances in London by Continental players; Miss
Janet Achurch was a more characteristic Nora than Duse or Réjane; nor have we seen a Mrs Linden,
Hedda Gabler or Hilda Wangle comparable with that of Miss Elizabeth Robins. There is no need
to multiply instances.

English players do not represent certain foreign characters as well as do the foreigners. Is
this surprising? They are handicapped, obviously. How often have we seen a French, German or
Italian performance of an English play concerning English people? Was the great Eleonora as
painfully truthful as Mrs Patrick Campbell in The Second Mrs Tanqueray? No one can deny that
her companions were almost ludicrous to us. Can one imagine any foreign company able to present
His House in Order without entirely destroying the stage illusion and losing the colour? There
was a very fine performance at the St James's, with intense soberness of manner in important
matters as a keynote.

It is largely a question of geography; the Englishman expresses rapture by the phrase "not
half-bad" where the foreigner piles superlative on superlative of gush. It is our quality and
our defect that we have a strange shyness, which prevents the exhibition of emotion for fear
of ridicule. On our stage, as in our real life, the beloved son comes home from a long voyage,
and, meeting his father, shakes hands a little warmly and says, "Hallo, governor!" or something
poetic like that; whilst abroad the two men kiss one another and utter highly emotional phrases
of rapture. Everyone knows that the feelings are equally deep in the two cases, but our cross-Channel
critics doubt the depth of the English feeling, whilst our native players cannot do the kissing
and hugging with an air of sincerity.

Now, when taking these facts into account we should be very careful in appraising the efforts
of our own players. Not only ought we to avoid comparing select teams of foreign players with
our own scratch companies, but also it is our duty to consider whether the strangers are appearing
in plays better or worse than the average of our own, and we must take into account the fact
that they are gaining from the advantage of novelty. Lastly, there remains the question how
far they would appear to be better than ours if appearing on neutral ground.

It would be idle to assert that the average level of our acting is as good as it ought to be.
Many theatres suffer severely from the lack of satisfactory stage-management; some from the
determination of an actor-manager to be the central figure of every scene. Bitter complaints
are uttered by young players about not receiving sufficient suggestions at rehearsal and finding
that the stage-manager has so little authority that not only the leading players act as they
chose, but even the smaller stars refuse successfully to obey him.

There is another point in Mr Bourchier's letter. He suggests that Mr Max Beerbohm is not competent
to criticize actors because he is not a master of any branch of the difficult art of acting.
This is a very foolish old fallacy. People who do work essentially ephemeral, such as acting,
do it for those who are to witness it; and their merit is in direct proportion to their impression
upon the audience, and they can have no effect upon anybody else. Actors, with trifling exceptions,
do not form part of the audience. Critics do, and the actor seeks to affect the audience and
the critics, and not the brother "pro." occasionally found in the auditorium.

The merit of his work lies entirely in affecting an audience in the way intended by the author.
The technical devices adopted have nothing to do with the question. No doubt there is much
technical knowledge involved in acting, but it must be remembered that it is all a means to
an end. The cult of technique for itself is perilous to an art.

After all, the matter may be reduced to an absurdity. Would Mr Bourchier refuse to say that
a man is well dressed, or a dinner ill cooked because he is (presumably) ignorant of the mysteries
of the arts of tailoring and cooking? Moreover, some of us, perhaps even Mr Beerbohm, know
a good deal about the technique of acting, even if we could not "make-up" Mr Bourchier to look
like a costermonger. The actor must be very vain in his conceit who has not had valuable hints
concerning his acting from the critics, unless he be one of those who, unlike Mr Bourchier,
never read notices--yet often complain of an unfavourable one. The article called "Signor Borza
on the English Theatre," which appears on page 252, should be considered in relation to these
remarks.

The Sicilian Players

During many years our stage has seen nothing like the success of the Sicilians. They presented
themselves at the Shaftesbury Theatre with little in the shape of preliminary paragraphs to
"boom" them. Most of their repertoire consisted of works unknown to London playgoers. Several
of their plays were performed in a puzzling dialect. Even the judicious step of offering a
fairly full synopsis of the plays was neglected. Notwithstanding all this, the theatre was
well patronized during two seasons and the audiences have exhibited enthusiasm.

What is the meaning of all this; why should these village folk, playing what in the main seem
to be simple peasant melodramas, have troubled the senses of Londoners? The obvious answer
is that the affair is a triumph of pure acting. One pauses to inquire whether this is true.
In the case of most of their plays the judgment of the audience concerning the acting must
be very rough and ready--so far, at least, as the performance is fulfilling its true purpose
of presenting in action the ideas of the author.

How are we to know, when watching a play in Sicilian dialect and provided with a printed "argument"
comprised in about a couple of hundred words, whether the players are doing anything like their
duty to the author? By-the-by the poor Censor had to admit that he passed their plays on the
strength of these inadequate synopses! Yet there was absolute conviction in most of us that
their work was sincere and at times quite tremendous as a matter of pure acting. The word "tremendous"
must be confined to the efforts of Signora Mimi Aguglia Ferrau and Signor Grasso. The others
form a very good company, but it is only in respect of these two that one employs the word
"genius," which cautious writers use very rarely, though there are journalists who lavish it
upon everybody a thumb-nail's thickness above mediocrity.

Concerning the lady there is no doubt at all. She is a little woman, with a rather strongly
featured, intelligent face, brilliant teeth and big eyes who has, to begin with, the rare gift
of filling the stage. There is a perceptible difference whenever she is present. She may be
one of a crowd of twenty, and saying and doing nothing, but her presence is felt. At her command
is a delightful roguish comedy and a horrible realistic tragedy. In Malia she is a Phèdre burnt
up with unslakable passion, a rustic Phèdre, no doubt, but Bernhardt never gave more strongly
the idea of "Vénus toute entière à sa proie attachée."

There are tricks in her work; she is fond of standing her profile parallel with the footlights,
and of exhibiting the whites of her large eyes; she is conscious of the extraordinary eloquence
of her shoulders and back, and likes to exhibit distress by the play of them. There is often
excess in violent contrast of light and shade.

Yet no one can display subsiding emotion more finely than she does. Most of our players turn
off emotion as one turns off the gas. In the Sicilian one notices a kind of aftermath; her
fury may be succeeded by rapture; her grief by joy; but for a while underneath the rapture
or joy one detects signs of the fact that physically she is recovering gradually from the effects
of fury or grief. The voice is a little harsh, the gestures are not exactly elegant, she is
always somewhat peuple, and always magnificent.

In some respects, Signor Grasso is quite different; his appearance is unpleasant, he is an
ugly man, often with a fatuous air, but his grace of movement is quite extraordinary; occasionally
he gives snatches of dance so exquisitely rhythmical that one longs for more. His pantomime
is larger in movement than hers; his passion less terrible. He too has tricks; he is over-fond
of playing with the chairs; in Malia one might say that he plays skittles with them.

There is rather an excess of gesture, of a naturalistic explanatory gesture, apparently borrowed
from pantomime; one feels that some of it is deliberately used to aid the ignorant foreigner
to understand; he does things which make the Briton squirm; has a habit of kissing the ugly,
male members of his troupe with big, resounding smacks on both cheeks, and in a loving fashion
pats them like a Graeco-Roman wrestler; but there is always the extraordinarily graceful, lithe
movement and, with curious exceptions, a supreme unconsciousness of the audience; whilst the
passionate volubility and the almost brutal ferocity thrill the house.

They are a queer lot, these village players; supremely unself-conscious when actually acting,
yet guilty of taking "calls" in the middle of a scene. If pressed, they probably would give
an encore, and with a little urging Signora Mimi would yield to a cry of "bis" and give a repetition
of her abominable, appalling, vastly clever fit in Malia, to please the friendly Britons.

At the end of a scene the players come forward, hand in hand, bobbing and bowing, grinning
and smiling, in a way that suggests a troupe of acrobats after a successful turn. It is not
difficult to overrate their work as a company, or rather--and this in a sense is the same thing--to
underrate that of our own players by comparison.

There is one very noteworthy fact: from the point of view of a London manager the scenery and
appointments were contemptible, and this apparently did not matter a rap. An audience, five-sixths
of it British, was enthralled by these players, although the scenery and the furniture of the
indoor sets had no pretension to magnificence, were sometimes almost absurdly squalid.

The venture at the Shaftesbury showed that if you give what the public deems good acting you
need not bother about painted canvas and furniture; and what applies to good acting applies
to good plays. The Sicilians taught us this, even if, perhaps, little else; for our players,
unless they are to represent Sicilians, or such volcanic creatures, can learn comparatively
little from them. Indeed, our delightful visitors could be taught something by our despised
stage in the way of reticence, for there is little doubt that they love a horror for horror's
sake and revel in the gory joys of the penny gaff. This may be said with full recognition of
the fact that, according to their own standard, they are intensely sincere and superbly equipped
in consequence of hard work and natural gifts.

Alleged Dearth of Great Actresses

Lately there have appeared some remarks by an unnamed "prominent dramatic author" alleging
that "there is a dearth of great actresses just now," and stating that "several serious plays
which it was hoped might be produced next autumn are in danger of being indefinitely postponed
because of the inability of finding actresses capable of playing strongly emotional parts in
drama of deep and complex interest." These dramas of "deep and complex interest" are quite
as rare in our theatre as great actresses and we only believe in their existence when we see them.

Of course there is a dearth of great actresses--there always was and always will be: "great"
is only a relatively term. Thank goodness for this, seeing that they are sadly injurious to
drama. On the other hand, to allege a lack of actresses competent to play strong emotional
parts seems quite unjust.

The remarks of the "prominent dramatic author" were followed by a letter to the same effect
by Mr George Rollit, known to fame as the author of a fairly good farce produced in 1904 at
the Royalty. He appears to have allowed it to get known that a new play of his was to be produced
in the West End, but he was unable to find "an adequate exponent for the leading role"--what
a pretty phrase!--"which requires an emotional young actress, capable of portraying strong
light and shade." He received many offers from actresses, none of whom were suitable.

These two complainants are making a mistake concerning the task of the dramatist, who fails
in his labours if his plays cannot adequately be acted without the assistance of great actresses.
They are foolishly pandering to the vanity of the players, who as a rule have a tendency to
exaggerate their importance in relation to drama. The error is very common, and the idea that
plays should be written primarily to exhibit the players and not the ideas of the author is
the bane of our theatre.

Until our dramatists act firmly on the view that their duty is to write plays interesting when
rendered by a good, starless company, they will only produce as a rule bravura pieces of little
artistic value. By all means let them write strongly emotional parts, if they can; but they
are not worthy of their royalties if their characters do not generally lie within the range
of a fair number of actresses. There is a grotesque mixture of vanity and modesty in the mind
of an author who thinks his work worthy of performance by an actress of genius and at the same
time believes it to be too weak to succeed without her help.

It will be answered, probably, that Shakespeare's plays demand players of genius and yet certainly
are not mere bravura pieces. There is truth und untruth in this--truth that our public will
not patronize Shakespeare when acted by average performers; untruth in the proposition that
they cannot adequately be represented by players without genius. We have unfortunately got
into the very bad habit of going to see his works not for their intrinsic interest but for
the sake of the acting and mounting. It is not Hamlet but Mr Smith as the Prince of Denmark;
not Romeo and Juliet but Miss Brown and Mr Jones as the lovers of Verona, and so on, which
form the attraction; and the works are cut and played out of balance in order to meet the demand.

The author would have resented a suggestion that his characters are so superhuman as to need
marvellous performance: these remarks are without prejudice to the question whether even with
the aid of great players Shakespeare's dramas reveal a fair proportion of their merits on the
stage.

The outcry concerning the alleged dearth of good actresses is very commonly uttered and exceedingly
ill-founded. It is wise to avoid the thorny question how far the recognized leading ladies
of our first-class theatres are satisfactory--yet it may be said that a successful playwright
recently complained that as a body they were not, and that, despite his protests, he was compelled
to have his works performed by the ladies in possession--and judicious to shirk the proposition,
sometimes put forward, that some of these do not hold their positions by mere force of merit.
Putting, then, aside the actresses enjoying grandeur in London, and leaving out of account
a still more remarkable group which includes Mrs Kendal, Mrs Patrick Campbell and Miss Olga
Nethersole--whom we too rarely see in town--and even ignoring what may be called "recognized
leading ladies" who are "resting" reluctantly, there remains a powerful group of young actresses
of experience and talent fully competent to satisfy the reasonable requirements of these gentlemen
who are complaining of the "dearth." Since this was written a number of young ladies then on
the boards but not accepted as leading ladies have made their way to the front.

Character Actresses

Several letters have been written lately, pathetic letters, from actresses unable to get engagements.
All of the writers have enjoyed successes, have been referred to by important papers as "promising"
or "coming leading ladies," each has had at least one engagement at a very handsome weekly
salary, yet every one of them is in doleful dumps.

Here is a passage from one: "In 1904 I did so well that I lived in luxury, and, I fear, somewhat
extravagantly, and my performance as heroine in ---- was so highly praised that I had no doubt
my future was well assured. Last year I earned £40, and I have to live on what I earn, and
if I look dowdy when I go seeking an engagement I have little chance of getting it. Yet I am
under thirty, and although not one of the little group of alleged beauties whose faces appear
monotonously week after week in the illustrated papers, I am well-enough-looking when made
up, and have read in criticisms references to my 'charm of presence' and even to my 'beauty.'
What is to become of me, I don't know. Of course I am particularly hopeless seeing that nine
of the London theatres out of less than three times that number are now devoted to musical
comedy and I am unable to sing, nor should I be enthusiastic about taking work sadly in contrast
with my once high and hopeful ambition."

The last phrase deserves some consideration. To a great extent the reason why the stage causes
so much unhappiness among actresses is that a large proportion enter the profession not in
a simple straightforward way in the choice of a career, but because they dream of great triumphs.
Probably the career of Ellen Terry, and the exhibition of public affection shown upon the occasion
of her jubilee, brought many recruits to the stage.

Putting aside the fact that Ellen Terry is unique, one may remark that very few actresses can
hope to get close to the top of the tree, for obvious reasons. In the case of most careers
and professions, nine men out of ten who join them know perfectly well that they will never
do more than earn a decent living, and they shape their lives accordingly; but nearly every
young actress expects to become a leading lady at a West End theatre, though there are few
West End theatres devoted to real drama, and in some out of the small number there will always
be a manager's wife or friend as an obstacle.

The misfortune is that few young actresses--if any--say to themselves deliberately that they
will aim at character parts, or old-woman parts. Nearly all the old-woman and grande-dame characters
are played by actresses who have been leading ladies and during some period have had the painful
experience of failing, on account of their age, to get the engagements they have sought. The
Juliet of one season is not the Nurse or the Lady Capulet of the next; a considerable time
passes before there is such a shift of characters, and she acts nothing at all during the interregnum,
which is spent in vain attempts to get the Juliet parts, met with cruel rebuffs on the score
of age.

Now, some of the old-man actors on the stage are quite young; they have chosen a particular
line, conscious of the fact that nature has denied them the privilege of playing parts that
will cause the stage-door-keeper to be deluged with amorous letters addressed to them, and
aware, too, that the triumphs of the broad comedian will never be theirs. These young old-men
are often quite as successful in old-man parts as those who have served most of a lifetime
upon the stage.

It is not more difficult for a young woman to play the old-woman character or the grande-dame
part than for the young man to tackle the Sir Peter Teazle or the ordinary modern old-man;
nor is this the only class of work other than that of lovely heroine which lies open to the
actress. When one hears discussion concerning the casting of plays there is often talk about
the difficulty of finding an actress for a Fanny Brough part, which, of course, is quite distinct
from what may be considered specifically a soubrette character. Complaints are uttered about
the difficulty of finding a player to represent the comic mother-in-law; indeed, playwrights
are sometimes affected in their work by the fear that if they write broad comedy for feminine
parts the difficulty of casting them will be insurmountable.

Handsome salaries are paid to the few ladies who have a well-deserved reputation as actresses
in the class of character thus indicated, and there is a demand for them--a demand generally
supplied by superannuated leading ladies and aged soubrettes. It may be offensive to a girl's
vanity deliberately to choose a path in which her personal charms, or those which she believes
herself to possess, must be of little service. On the English stage it may be doubted if such
a policy will ever be adopted, though on French there are instances which might be cited of
actresses who have played dowager characters during the whole of a profitable, long and respected
career.

No doubt there is another side of the matter. Many, most actresses, join the stage with other
ideas than of merely gaining a reasonably comfortable living wage. Pure ambition in some cases,
vanity in others, are the motive-force, to say nothing of the numbers who may be regarded simply
as stagestruck; and to such as these nothing seems worth striving for save to represent the
triumphant heroine, the fascinating soubrette, or Lady Macbeth.

Upon all, these prudent counsels will be wasted--indeed, those who know a little of what passes
behind the scenes are well aware that young actresses, almost starving, refuse to accept character
parts that would help them out of poverty because they are afraid of jeopardising their chance--their
one-to-a-hundred chance--of obtaining the perilous position of leading lady.

There is, of course, another class. Some, perhaps many, become actresses simply from a pure
love of what they deem a beautiful, noble art, and for them it is only natural to think that
nothing is worth representing save the greater characters; it is difficult to gratify such
a love by representing a middle-aged comic spinster, or one of the elderly duchesses, without
whom a modern comedy is deemed ungenteel. Let us hope that Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree's Academy,
which already is bearing fruit, will affect this deplorable phenomenon. Those responsible may
succeed in convincing a fair number of their charming pupils that it is wise not to aim at
glittering triumphs which fall to few, but to qualify for work necessary in most plays, and
very often done indifferently.

Stage Misfits

"One of those things no fellah can understand," to quote a phrase of Lord Dundreary, is the
way in which players get chosen for their parts. Most cases, no doubt, are not instances of
square pegs in round holes; but the number of exceptions is enormous, a fact which has lately
been made manifest by one of the short French seasons. An actress of really great talent has
appeared as a star in her husband's company, and the obvious judgment upon her first two appearances
was that the characters chosen were quite unsuitable to her. The reference is to Madame Suzanne
Desprès.

In La Rafale and Le Détour she had to represent a Parisian, a chic Parisienne, a creature of
nerves, elegance and, according to Balzac, sound business calculation, Madame Desprès suggested
none of these qualities; in physique she seems an agreeable-looking, strong-minded countrywoman
with brains; obviously she has no instinct for dress; and, despite remarkable skill and a fine
exhibition of acting, she presented a woman quite different from the author's character, one
also who would never have behaved like M. Bernstein's heroines.

The play suffered and the player suffered, and probably only the critical could see what an
admirable actress she is and guess how perfectly she would represent a higher type of woman.
This is no isolated case. We often see the race-horse used in pulling heavy weights and the
Suffolk punch employed for speed, and each blamed for the unsatisfactory accomplishment of
the absurd task. Many of the disasters in the theatre are due to this.

As a rule the actor-manager or manageress demands the principal character, however unsuitable.
Going back a little, one recalls with astonishment the experiment of Irving in representing
Romeo, and many have wondered why Ellen Terry in 1888 appeared as Lady Macbeth. Some of the
pleasantest memories of the playgoer concern superb performances by Miss Elizabeth Robins,
and yet they can recollect two or three appearances in commonplace dramas that were flat failures.
Mrs Patrick Campbell has had several checks which would be astounding if one did not recollect
that she was constitutionally unsuited for the task she attempted.

The most ardent Bensonian will hardly suggest that his idols are always judicious in their
choice of characters. To use the stock stage term, players often "see themselves" in characters
in which the public sees only them and not the characters. Are there no kind friends on the
stage to give unpalatable advice?

One reason for the extraordinary success of the performances by the Stage Society and the Vedrenne-Barker
management and of Pinero plays was the judicious choice of players whose physique and temperament
coincided with their parts. Several times we had what seemed brilliant pieces of acting by
performers who never did anything before or afterwards worthy of admiration. At almost every
fresh production enthusiastic young critics discovered a new actor or actress who, after all,
was only an old friend well fitted at last.

The lack of attention by managers to this matter of suitability often leads to very awkward
results, chiefly in the case of the ladies. Many times we have listened to ravings about the
beauty of the heroine, and when she has appeared there has been a giggle in the house on account
of her lack of beauty. We have frequently heard references to the tiny feet of a healthy young
woman who would hardly have got three of her toes into the glass slipper, or to the dainty
hands of a lady who would split a pair of eights.

The beauty of the men is not so frequently referred to, but we sometimes have an ugly fellow
vainly trying to live up to suggestions that he is an Adonis and merely looking ridiculous
in consequence. The matter of age, too, enters into the question--at times disastrously. Some
actresses are like Cleopatra or Ninon de l'Enclos, but many look twice their reputed age. It
is only in the case of Juliet that it is deemed decent to refer to this difficulty, and then
merely because Shakespeare has set her so cruelly young that everybody knows nobody can play
and look the part.

In this matter a little good sense would work wonders. We critics are much to blame, and blamed,
for not trying to force the entry of good sense. Some of our forebrothers never hesitated to
talk bluntly about the physical unsuitability of players for their parts, but we have grown
so mealy-mouthed that if Miss Florence Haydon were to play Rosalind or Mr Louis Calvert Romeo,
we should merely use some obscure phrases about unsuitability of temperament instead of saying
something usefully brutal about the folly of these admirable artists. If we go a little further,
our editors are pestered with letters to which we have the privilege of replying.

The whole thing is absurd. The public is not deluded, and we hear murmurs in the theatre and
outcries in the streets about the fact that Miss So-and-so is far too ugly for her part and
Mr So-and-so too old, and the plays fail because the charges are true and the stage illusion
has never been created, and the critic's authority--if any--is weakened. There are as many
bad performances because the players are physically unsuitable as because they are otherwise
incompetent.

If these ideas were acted upon the profession at large would gain, for the players would be
put more constantly in circulation; on the other hand it will be suggested that the actors
and actresses would grow less skilful, since it may be imagined that their highest achievements
are exhibited when overcoming the greatest difficulties, in which proposition there is an obvious
fallacy; and also that they would gain less experience, having a smaller variety in parts.

The advocates of the old stock system certainly would howl, because they think it did an actor
good to play a great number of vastly different characters. It must, however, be recollected
that in the time when the stock system flourished, putting aside the comparatively small classic
repertoire, a very large proportion of the pieces were written upon more mechanical lines than
the better plays of the present time, and parts tended to become classifiable into distinct
well-known categories. To-day popular players are often engaged for long terms at theatres,
where they are inevitably given characters for many of which they are unsuited in physique
or temperament, to say nothing of age.

Another matter is the question of accent. From time to time we have players on our boards who
speak English with a foreign accent in parts where such an accent is an absurdity. No doubt
some have grappled with this difficulty very cleverly. Modjeska, for instance, Bandmann, Mlle.
Béatrice, Marius, Juliette Nesville and the lady who played here as Madame Simon le Bargy.

The memory of few goes back to Fechter, and it would hardly be tactful to refer on this topic
to several American players. The effect, however, necessarily is unfortunate; it is difficult
enough on the stage to create illusions, and very important not to multiply difficulties. Opera,
with the magic aid of music, may contend successfully against such monstrosities as one singer
singing an Italian part in French, whilst the others offer various styles of Italian, Anglo-Italian,
German-Italian, Swedish-Italian--almost any Italian save the lingua Toscana. Spoken drama is
not so robust in this particular, and the matter in question does not happen often enough to
acquire validity by becoming a convention.

Stars

The past season has been comparatively disastrous to the theatres, and many pieces have failed;
this state of things is coincident with healthy progress in English drama, and the year has
seen several productions that would have startled as well as delighted enthusiasts a few years
ago. Putting aside musical comedy and comic opera, one asks why it is that a great deal of
money has been lost at the playhouses and a very large proportion of pieces have been failures.

There are outcries about a dearth of good plays and competent players, and the supposed deficiency
in these elements is generally offered as an explanation. Is it the true one? Certainly not.
The development of the star system is the chief cause of the disaster. In former days we used
to blame the actor-manager, but since the time when all were throwing stones at him a good
deal has happened for which the ordinary actor-manager is not responsible--directly.

To-day several of the managers who are not actors run their theatres on the star system, and
we find the announcement frequently made that Mr X. will present Miss So-and-so, or Mr So-and-so,
or Mrs So-and-so, in a new play by Mr XXX. In other words, the manager is really offering his
star to the public, and not the play. Moreover, a number of players are run as stars by syndicates.
In plain English, most of our theatres are managed, or rather mismanaged, upon the supposition
that the principal players are more important than what they represent.

It is the opinion of many disinterested observers that only three or four of our actors and
actress in legitimate drama draw an appreciable amount of money in London to the theatre, and
sacrifices made for those who do not obviously are futile. The unfortunate result of the system
is that the playwright is sacrificed to the stars--most of whom are ineffectual. He is required
to fit his drama to the personality of one, or it may be two, in the cast.

Let us tell briefly the story of one failure of the year. A play of some merit was shown to
a popular actor, who suggested that if certain changes were made in it he would recommend it
to his syndicate. The changes were suggested comprehensively under the phrase "If you can strengthen
my part."

The part was strengthened--that is to say, other parts were weakened, speeches were taken from
them and given to the hero, scenes for minor characters were excised or shortened, and the
star was dragged into the finale of the second act at great sacrifice of plausibility. The
play was then recommended.

It happened that the star had just separated from the leading lady who generally appeared with
him, so the syndicate was free in choice of a heroine. Three names were suggested. It was admitted
that two of the actresses were more suitable than the third, who, however, had a "backer" willing
to put money into the venture. The money prevailed and the lady was chosen. She promptly insisted
upon having her part strengthened, so the play was remutilated till her wishes were complied
with. Is it surprising that when it was produced the critics fell foul of it and denounced
the faults due to these transactions, or amazing that it did not run long?

This is by no means an isolated case: there has been one comedy given this year, the last act
of which was blamed by everybody. Why? Because the star, who was not the chief figure in it
as the play was written, insisted upon his prerogatives, therefore the part of the second actor
in the cast was cut down to next to nothing and a big irrelevant scene was introduced for the
star, in which he uttered some of the speeches taken from the second actor's part. To think
of a work of art being submitted to such treatment! It is difficult to emphasize it by a parallel.
One might ask what would be the result if a painter were to attempt to convert a purely imaginative
picture into a portrait, and, in addition to altering the face and the lines of the figures,
were to put in a number of accessories to please the patron's taste, and also to accept suggestions
from the sitter as to changes in the colour-scheme.

Now, it may be asserted confidently that a number of the plays produced this year have undergone
the process of being altered to please managers, actor-managers, star players and syndicates.
In addition a good many have been written from the start with a view of fitting the stars without
alteration, and such works, in most cases, are quite out of balance and proportion, and, moreover,
put a burden upon the stars that they are quite unable to bear, or we to endure.

It was bad enough when there were only two or three stars, but now the managers have starred
a whole shoal of mediocre players and sacrificed plays and dramatist to them. That there seems
to be a dearth of good plays is in part because of the fact that some good ones are ruined
by changes made in them, whilst others are refused because they do not contain star parts,
and the authors cannot or will not convert them into star plays.

The stars, created by the managers and industriously boomed by their press agents, by the newspapers
and by the postcard merchants, have become Frankensteins to their creators. They demand and
get extravagant salaries. Yet experience shows that few really draw people to the theatre.

When the manager makes his calculation he can only put a limited sum to the salary list, and
since he starts with one or two star salaries there is an insufficient amount left for the
rest of the company--that is to say, instead of having the other characters represented by
players who would be chosen for them if money were no object, they have to be taken by the
cheapest performers who can possibly be deemed competent.

The position of the unstarred actor is peculiarly precarious, for he is often passed over,
although the salary expected by him is not very large, in favour of somebody cheaper and less
competent. Some casts remind one of the women who think themselves well dressed merely because
they have a new hat. They begin with one or two good players--when the stars happen to be good
players--and immediately drop below mediocrity.

CHAPTER IX

STAGE DANCING

The Skirts of the Drama

A case lately came on for trial in Paris relating to a quarrel that arose a long time ago.
Incidentally, it may be observed that "the law's delay" is even greater in France than over
here, where, indeed, until the most august regions of the courts are reached procedure is comparatively
rapid, and on the Chancery side cases are tried as hats are ironed, "while you wait." The question
in Paris raises one of importance, but in itself is mere matter for merriment.

Mademoiselle Sarcy sued her manager because he tried to make her depart from traditions; and,
although she is a prima ballerina, required her to wear flowing petticoats in the ballet of
Hérodiade. The matter stirred Paris prodigiously.

With us, of course, the ballet has ceased to be of importance. In Mademoiselle Genée we had
a dancer as well entitled to immortality as those about whom our fathers raved, and Russian
dancers of brilliance have appeared, but opera and the legitimate theatre pay no attention
to ballet except at pantomime season; and whilst probably the average keen playgoer of Paris
is acquainted with the names of the orthodox steps, and is aware that in the ballet one begins
as petit rat, then becomes a quadrille ballerina, develops into a coryphée, blossoms into a
minor subject, grows into a subject, and eventually emerges and reaches the stars as a prima
ballerina, few of us know anything about the subject.

The whole fight in Paris raged round the question whether, regardless of period or nation or
style of music, the prima ballerina is entitled to wear the scanty parasol skirt and petticoats
in which she delights. The ladies of the ballet, with modern tradition on their side, resent
any alteration in costume. The matter is not one of propriety in the ordinary sense of the
word; the propriety of ballet costumes is out of the range of rational discussion. No one can
doubt that if we had never seen anything but ordinary society drama and a ballet were launched
at us in customary costume the police courts would take up the matter.

It is even known that there was a time (not Sir Henry's) when the Lord Chamberlain interfered
at the Lyceum and was defeated by ridicule. Custom has settled the question of propriety, and
it may be confidently asserted that it never occurs to the mind of the prima ballerina that
any human being could regard her costume as indelicate. The trouble in Paris was that, despite
the wish of the other persons concerned in the ballet, the star insisted upon proving lavishly
to the public that she did not resemble the traditional Queen of Spain. She went further: she
demanded her pound of flesh--or padding--she wished to exhibit what in technical slang is called
le tutu, a term descriptive of the abbreviated costume and possessed also of a secondary meaning,
which may be imagined by taking the ordinary tourist's pronunciation of the words and translating
it. Trilby's "the altogether" in connexion with tights explains the matter.

The question is one of art, and here lies its humour. It is not physical vanity on the part
of the ladies, for they know that sculptors would hardly choose as subjects the lower portion
of women whose legs have been over-developed by a training so arduous that it is found almost
impossible to get English girls to go through with it. But--and here's the rub--the dancer
has a respect for her craft, which, like the actor's devotion to his art, tends to produce
erroneous ideas, and this is why the fight has taken place.

At the bottom, it becomes a question of virtuosity. Art has suffered appallingly in every branch
from the mania for cultivation of dexterity in accomplishment. To the prima ballerina the dancing
is more important than the dance, to the actors the playing than the play, to many painters
the facture than the picture, and so on. Music has been the main sufferer, particularly on
the vocal side, and certain kinds of opera have been buried under the vocal acrobatics of the
singers. One sees occasionally in shop windows, and, it may be, in human habitations, a species
of abominable clock that has no kind of casing to conceal the works; it suggests the image
of a prima ballerina. With the perfectly modest immodesty of the little boy cited in discussion
by Laurence Sterne, she delights in exhibiting the works; more truthfully than a once famous
conjuror, she insists upon showing us "how it is done"; and that really is quite the last thing
a person of any taste wishes to know, or, rather, desires to have forced upon him.

Obviously, it is the duty of everyone who pretends to be educated to have some acquaintance
with the mechanics of the different branches of art, but he does not want to be taught in public.
Unfortunately the performer displays a natural desire to show his own cleverness rather than
that of the dramatist. He treats himself as the cart when he is only the--horse.

Drama has suffered severely from this; indeed, in our theatres we have reached the topsy-turvydom
of having the dramatist write for the players instead of having the players act for the dramatist.
Sterile art is the general outcome. A great form of architecture perished with the architect
who, forgetful of noble design, indulged in desperate tours de force and offered to the stonemason
the opportunity of executing miracles in stone lacework.

Dancing has stood still since the dancers have gyrated frantically in order to prove their
mechanical dexterity, and drama is in the doldrums because the players, with the assistance
of the press, have induced the public to regard their performance as more important than the
work which it is their duty to represent. The last statement is becoming inaccurate. It is
hardly extravagant to say that when a play is written at the dictation of an actor the acting
will be more important than the piece, for but little good work comes out of drama concocted
under such circumstances.

The dancers are really dancing on the ruins of their art. They have lessened their skirts and
their popularity at the same time. Old pictures show (and I believe that old measurements are
preserved to indicate the fact) that in the days of the famous pas de quatre--not, of course,
the one at the Gaiety--skirts were worn far longer than the modern tutu.

The costume of the prima ballerina assoluta in our grandfather's days was something like an
umbrella and a pair of braces: the umbrella shrank to the en-tout-cas, and the en-tout-cas
to the open parasol; unless the movement is arrested, in the course of time a lampshade will
be reached, and ultimately, say, fifty years hence, the Genée of the period will have nothing
more of skirt and petticoat than some kind of fringe round the waist, indicating, like our
coccygeal vertebrae, or the rudimentary limbs of the whale, a mere useless atrophied apparatus.

It was once possible for the poses and movements of the dancer to be graceful--the phrase "the
poetry of motion" had a meaning. With the stiff tutu sticking out almost at right angles, elegance
is quite impossible. The present "star" resembles in outline one of the grotesques used by
Hogarth to illustrate his theories in his "Analysis of Beauty," and one is inclined to laugh
at her awkwardness when she walks; nor is it easy to admire when she whirls round like a dancing
dervish, the tutu mounting higher and becoming more and more rectangular the faster she goes.

Mlle. Genée, delicious and graceful, in some flowing character-costume, and then ridiculous
in the tutu that she adores, proved this more than any amount of written explanation. She was
such a great performer, so perfect in mechanism, so harmonious from little foot to dainty head,
so brilliant in her miming, that one was forced to say sorrowfully "Et tu-tu, Genée." Unfortunately
the virtuoso mania is irresistible, and, so far as graceful dancing is concerned, there is
no hope that we may see such a pas de quatre as won fame in the palmy days of the ballet; we
have reached the reign of the pas du tutu, and, almost wish we had arrived at the pas du tout.

During the last few years there has been a great stir in the dancing world. Some time ago Isadora
Duncan gave a private exhibition at the New Gallery of certain dances in a style intended to
be a revival of old Greek dancing.

A little later Miss Ruth St Denis presented in public some strange, quite beautiful, performances
consisting of dancing, miming and posturing supposed to suggest ideas of Indian life, and her
finely restrained, truly artistic work deeply impressed both the critics and audiences.

Afterwards came Miss Maud Allan, alleged--no matter with what degree of truth--to be an imitator
of Isadora Duncan, and she made a great "hit," her most popular performance being a "Salome"
dance, which was considered by some people to be indecent. Certainly of her costume the French
phrase "qui commence trop tard et finit trop tôt" might justly be used, for she carried nudity
on the stage to a startling degree. In a good many other dances her work was rather pretty
and quite unobjectionable, but vastly inferior to the art of Isadora Duncan or Ruth St Denis.

Isadora Duncan

The theatrical season of 1908 ended in a blaze of--dancing. At what is generally deemed about
the dullest moment in the year Isadora Duncan appeared at the Duke of York's Theatre, and kept
it open and well attended for almost a month. The affair is unique in the history of our theatre.
One can imagine a playhouse running on the basis of a big ballet, with a story, popular music,
magnificent scenery, gorgeous costumes, huge corps de ballet, half-a-dozen principals and immense
advertisement. In this case we have had more or less isolated dances to music generally severe;
for scenery only a background of subtle yellow, taking strange tones under the influence of
different lights; for costumes only some beautiful, tranquil, simple Greek drapery; for corps
de ballet a few children; for principals one woman, with an intelligent face, but certainly
no great beauty; and in the way of advertisement very little, except some honestly enthusiastic
press notices, and fortunately nothing in the form of photographs of nudities or half-nudities.

There has been a triumph of pure art under austere conditions, such as can hardly be recollected
on our stage, unless in the case of Everyman--pure art akin to the theatrical, indeed parent
of the drama. The word histrionic is derived through the Latin from an Etruscan word which
means "to leap" and was originally applied to dancers.

Historically, the matter is interesting. Drama began in dance and developed from it, dance
and drama going hand-in-hand for a long while; then a separation came, and dance has tended
more and more to become meaningless and conventional, and, in the chief school of dancing,
purely technical. The Spanish school is still alive, reinforced by the North African, and in
the main showing some tendency, often perfectly restrained, towards the indecent. Our own step-dancing
remains popular, and for a while the hybrid skirt-dancing triumphed, chiefly because of the
genius of Kate Vaughan and talent of her successors, one of whom, Katie Seymour, worked out
a clever individual compound of styles.

The "Classic" school, classic in quite a secondary sense, which has been represented by what
one can conveniently call the ballet, year after year has worked towards its extinction by
the over-cultivation of mere technique, of execution rather than imagination.

The greatest artist of this school in our times is Genée; natural grace, a piquant individuality,
and a fine power of miming, have lent charm to work the foundation of which is really acrobatic,
and consists of remarkable feats made too manifest by an abominably ugly costume.

Isadora Duncan goes back in style to the early Greek; dancing, however, necessarily to more
modern music, for the reason that we do not know how to reproduce much of the old, and possibly
would not like it if we could. To her work one may apply the phrase of Simonides, that "dancing
is silent poetry." Preferable is the term that has been used concerning architecture: Schelling,
in his "Philosophie der Kunst," calls it "frozen music," a term ridiculed by Madame de Staël.
Peter Legh wrote a book on the topic, published in 1831, with the title "The Music of the Eye."
The book is poor, pretentious stuff, but the title seems nicely applicable to the dancing of
Isadora Duncan. To a deaf man her work would be entirely musical--to a Beethoven or Robert
Franz, deaf after, for a while, full enjoyment of sound, her dances would, I believe, represent
complete, delightful, musical impressions.

It may be that sometimes in her work she attempts impossible subtleties, endeavouring to express
ideas beyond the range of melody--for it is difficult to imagine that any dancing can be more
than expressive of melody, though no doubt to make this true "melody" must be understood in
a large sense. How far away this is from dancing which consists in the main of executing more
or less complicated steps "in time" with the music, or such appalling vulgarities as a cake-walk.
It must be admitted that one of the Tanagra figurines is sadly suggestive of a characteristic
pose in the cake-walk--though it may well be that it is a mere pose which led to none of the
abominations with which our stage has been deluged!

In the case of Isadora Duncan we have seen poses and movements of extraordinary beauty, exquisitely
sympathetic with fine music. No doubt occasionally she has made a concession, as on her first
night, when she danced to "The Blue Danube" waltz by way of an encore, putting, however, her
own interpretation on the music and her sense of it. Those who are acquainted with Greek sculpture
and with some of the classic drawings of the old masters will see that to a very large extent
her work is a revival rather than an invention; but this fact--which she acknowledges--in no
degree diminishes the merit of her performances, for the execution is of wonderful beauty and
the application of the old ideas to music of a different type is very clever.

Her work alone has well repaid the audiences, many members of which have made several visits
to the theatre; it has, however, been supplemented by dances in which young children were the
performers, dances so pretty in conception and delightful in execution that one has felt the
whole house thrilling with pleasure. Nothing like these children dances, nothing of the kind
half as charming, has been given on the stage in our day.

The one complaint possible against Isadora Duncan is that she has rendered us immoderately
dissatisfied with what had once moderately contented us; and the fear is that we shall promptly
have a host of half-baked imitators, who will copy the mere accidentals of her system without
understanding the essentials, and will fancy that the whole matter is one of clothes and music,
and prance about bare-legged, meaninglessly. It is hard to see how this is to be avoided until
there has been time for her pupils to grow up; it is certain, however, that if the new idea,
the new-old idea, takes root, there will be a revolution in dancing, which may have far-reaching
effects.

Drama of the strictly intellectual type will remain unaffected; possibly there will be a new
development of the musico-dramatic. It has been suggested that musical comedy is waning, and
the period has been reached when the average piece of this class spells failure. There is,
of course, nothing in the work of Isadora Duncan which limits it to one principal, and naught
to prevent the combination of singing and dancing. Off-hand it seems rash to suggest that spoken
dialogue could be harmonized with these. It is imaginable that the authors of Prunella could
see their way to combine with work somewhat on the lines of their charming piece such ideas
of dancing as have been suggested by Isadora Duncan. The result should be a novel, delightful
form of art, not necessarily hybrid.

After Isadora Duncan's public performances came the deluge and the country was flooded with
women indecently unclad, who flapped about on the stage displaying their persons and their
incompetence lavishly. The authorities have been very lax as regards such performances, many
of which were so obviously crude and clumsy that it was clear that a succès de scandale was
sought deliberately. Of course some of the performers may have had merit. Later on (in 1910)
there arrived some brilliant Russian dancers whose work is of too great value and importance
to be dealt with in a single paragraph.

CHAPTER X

THINGS IN THE THEATRE

A Defence of the Matinée Hat

The number of matinées at Christmas-time has caused the usual outcry against the matinée hat,
and wrathful or sarcastic letters on the subject; and it is said that some French managers
are taking the strong step of excluding from the front rows those ladies who, to use the queer
Gallic term, are not "en cheveux." It seems surprising that an evil denounced so universally
should be permitted to exist, and that loud complaints made during many years should have had
little or no effect.

The average man regards the matter as quite simple, and wonders why women are so selfish as
to keep on their hats, and thinks that there is no reasonable explanation of their conduct
or excuse for it. It seemed clear that there must be greater difficulties than are obvious.
So questions were put to an ardent playgoer, who spends appalling sums of money on her dress,
as to why she makes a fuss about taking off her hat in the theatre.

"My good man," she said to the questioner, "you are talking 'through your hat' as well as about
mine. If my hair was as simple a matter as yours--" this hit at his unprotected pate seemed
rather a blow below the belt--"there would be no difficulty. Unfortunately, it is a very complex
matter." He hid all but the smallest conceivable fraction of a smile. "I am not referring to
colour," she continued with some asperity, "but to the fact that, at present, fashion requires
me to wear a prodigious number of little curls. My native crop is ample in quantity, but I
should hardly be in time for a matinée or even an evening performance if I had it turned into
all these little necessary curls. So, like most of my friends, in order to save time and trouble,
I have a number which are pinned on. Do you think I care to run the risk of removing my hat
without even a looking-glass to guide me? Heaven knows what might happen. The case is a little
better, though far from satisfactory, with those who wear nothing but their own crop."

This view of the subject seemed to have something in it, a fact which, of course, could not
be admitted. There were, not long before, in The Westminster Gazette some remarks by "Madame
Qui Vive" to the effect that even a female Absalom or a Mélisande could not do without what
she called the "clever devices of the coiffeur," and claims were made of woman's right to adopt
the fashion of the days when both men and women wore wigs, on the ground that the coiffeur's
"little devices"--English for sham curls--save time, and also remain "trimmer and neater" than
natural curls.

"Do you think," she said, "that it is pleasant to hold an eight or ten guinea hat on your knees,
to say nothing of a boa and muff and veil? And what about the damage to a delicate hat caused
by people who shove in front of you and brush against it and crush the tulle and break the
feathers? A lot of style it possesses after being treated in that fashion!"

"Don't you think you might have special hats for matinées--something undamageable."

"Perhaps you would like to see me in a tam-o'-shanter, or a yachting cap, or one of those nice
'sensible' straw hats you men admire; and suppose I want to go to a lunch en route for the
play, or tea afterwards, or to drive in the Park, or to go anywhere except to my cabinet de
toilette?"

"They might make you something extra small and low that would serve for all these purposes."

"Indeed; don't you think half-a-guinea is enough to pay for a stall without buying a special
hat into the bargain? A nice fuss my husband would make about my extravagance. Besides, people
want us to wear no hat at all. What does your wife do?"

The interviewer replied that his wife thought it her duty to take off her hat.

"She behaves better than many ladies of the theatrical world. The other day I could not see
a bit because of the enormous hat worn by Miss ----, and Miss ----and Miss ---- were just as bad."

It would be pleasant to give the names which would identify popular actresses who are great
shiners in this matter.

"Moreover," she continued, "there is the difficulty of putting it on again. You men wear your
hats on your heads, and can easily get them straight; we don't, we wear them on our hair, or
our scalpettes, or our transformations, or on any postiche that may be fashionable or necessary,
and can only tell whether they are straight, or even the right way round, by means of a looking-glass.
A pretty thing if I were to sail out of a theatre with my hat really askew, or before behind;
people might fail to take a charitable view of the situation, and suspect I had had a glass
too much instead of a glass too little."

"All this is irrelevant," said the interviewer, "and the whole difficulty is--you are too mean
to go to the ladies' room and pay or give sixpence to the attendant."

She smiled pityingly.

"My dear man, you grumble about our being late at the theatre. What would happen if fifty of
us were to take off our hats and touch up our hair in a room too small for fifteen, before
taking our seats? I know one ladies' room where there is only one looking-glass, and there
are only a few horrid little hooks on which to hang hats and veils. I would gladly patronize
the waiting-room if there were ample accommodation, but that would be out of the question in
most theatres, and one would have to come much too early and get away needlessly late; and
there might be little mistakes about the hats and furs unless half-a-dozen attendants were
provided, for it can't be a simple question of handing hats and coats over the counter as it
is with you men."

It is undeniable that in some cases the ladies' cloak-rooms have not been designed so as to
deal with the question under discussion, because, of course, theatres are primarily built for
the evening performances, and matinées are only a little extra as a rule.

"The matter," said the lady thoughtfully, "is more important than you think. I consider that
the matinée hat has settled the fate of many new enterprises. If the lady is asked to take
off her hat and does not, she is uncomfortable during the afternoon, because she knows the
people are hating her, not quite unjustly, and also because they sometimes whisper at her offensively.
If she does take it off she is worried lest she has made a guy of herself; she is often upset
because her hat has been crushed, and her mind is distracted by wonder if she will get it on
right at the end. The result is that she is in a bad mood for the play and judges it unfairly.

"I think something could be done. The seats might be so arranged as to have an open box underneath
each stall for the hat and muff of the lady immediately behind. I do not say it would be easy
to get at them; but even in the case of the narrowest stalls--and many are an outrage--it would
be possible. Something of the sort indeed exists at one or two theatres, such as the Haymarket.
Of course the cartwheel hats would not go into them, but ladies don't wear such things, only
women who want to advertize themselves. Next," she continued, "comes the question of the looking-glass.
I have made efforts to use a small miroir de poche, but it is far from adequate. In cases where
the backs of the stalls are of a good height, a fair-sized mirror might be fixed high up on
the back, with some little contrivance in the way of a curtain which could be drawn over it;
and aided by these we might be able to grapple with our difficulties."

A penny-in-the-slot mirror might pay.

A Justification of certain Deadheads

In efforts, certainly justifiable, to discover the reason for the failure of the theatrical
season, some people have made quite a ferocious attack upon the "deadhead," who really has
nothing to do with the case. He has been spoken of as an incubus. Some people regard the free
entry of the caput mortuum with a hostility like that shown by our ancestors (and to some extent
ourselves) to the mortmain of the Church.

Let us consider the deadhead for a while. First, it is necessary to point out that there are
several species. The genus includes all members of the audience who do not pay for their seats.
Of course the species of deadhead critic is not attacked on this particular point; yet indirectly
some members of it affect the situation, for it is said that there are critics who demand a
good deal of "paper" for their friends from managers, even when the tickets are really saleable.

London critics are not treated like their brethren in Paris--the great city in which drama
flourishes--where a reverence is exhibited for our craft not manifested in London. On a first
night over here you will find that in many theatres the representatives of first-class papers
are in back rows of the stalls or in the dress circle, whilst deadheads of another species
are occupying most of the better places. Moreover, there are very, very few journals to which
more than one ticket is sent.

The next kind of deadhead is the unprofessional first-night deadhead, a mixture of personal
friends of the manager, the author, the principal players and of "the backers," if any. It
is said that they are the most troublesome of all to handle, being utterly unreasonable as
a body, and refusing contemptuously seats accepted without a murmur by newspapers that have
a million or so of readers. Many are only willing to lend the support of their presence on
the first night; seats for the second or a later night are scorned. In this class may be reckoned
members of the profession, who, with a strange disregard for the convenience of the management,
demand a couple of stalls for the première, though they are in the habit of complaining that
a first performance does justice neither to the piece nor to the players. Lastly, in the group
of first-night deadheads come the members of the unrecognised, ill-organised, generally tactless
claque.

The species that lately has been attacked is divisible into two groups. The first consists
of the people who will not go to the theatre without an order, but do not expect first-night
tickets--one may call them the "cadgers." The second species might be entitled the "window-dressers."
Volumes have been written about the "cadgers," and countless stories told. No doubt they cause
trouble and some expense in stamps, stationery and clerical work. Probably they do not really
affect the fate of a piece, for there seems no reason to doubt the truth of the general assertion,
that nearly all of them would stay away if they could not get a ticket for nothing.

Now we come to the really lamentable class, people who have to be brought into a theatre "with
a lassoo," to use an American term. Let us look at the position--the melancholy position. The
play is not quite a hopeless failure; it is in a Mahomet's coffin position. If it can last
a little longer the season may improve and money be made; or it is neither making nor losing
on ordinary nights and does paying business on Saturdays. There is a third state of affairs--perhaps
the commonest: it is necessary to keep the piece running for a certain number of weeks, even
at a loss, in order that it may visit the provinces and the colonies or the States as a big
London success that has enjoyed a long run. Yet paying playgoers keep aloof.

What is the manager to do? If his house is but half full the applause will be faint, the players
are likely to act without spirit, and, worse still, the audience may be chilled, and the members
of it will tell their friends that the house was almost empty, thereby causing them to think
that the entertainment is poor. So half full might become quite empty. What method does the
manager adopt? He knows that the general public is as uncritical of an audience as of a play
or of acting, so he fills his house as well as he can with the very deadest of deadheads; "orders"
are distributed lavishly to people whose presence in the theatre is actually a favour to the
management.

It is said that these playgoers are peculiarly severe in their judgments and remarkably apathetic!
To the truth of part of this we can testify, since we study such deadheads with great curiosity
on the occasions, rather rare, when we see them, for sometimes a dramatic critic gets taken
to the theatre by a friend. We think ourselves very famous, yet most of us have friends ignorant
of the fact that our trade is to criticize plays. The position is a little quaint; one is asked
to dine at about the time that is customary to take afternoon tea; the dinner is short though,
if at a fashionable restaurant, the waits are long; and there comes an awful moment when the
host mentions that he has got six stalls for the ----. Generally there is some friend present
who knows the true position, and exhibits a smile of fiendish mirth.

When this happens we examine the professional deadhead with interest. He reminds one of the
hired mourner at the Hebrew funeral. Fantastic clothes, strange devices for keeping shirt-fronts
clean, queer contrivances for protecting the throat during the bus-ride home, furtive umbrellas,
ample reticules (in which perhaps goloshes are hidden), and a genteel reticence in applause
or laughter, are marks of the stranger in the stalls--the harmless, necessary deadhead. He
may not be ornamental, nor even she, despite her sex; perhaps they give little encouragement
to the players; they bring nothing directly to the exchequer, but they fill a place.

Few of us do more; some of us merely fill a column, and wish we did that duty as conscientiously
as most of these poor creatures do theirs, for, though obviously determined not to enjoy themselves,
they come punctually, do not cause inconvenience by going out between the acts to waste money
on high-priced refreshments, and remain in their places to the bitter end--unlike the cash
patrons, so many of whom bustle away brutally towards the close of the entertainment for fear
lest they should miss the chance of earning a nightmare at a fashionable restaurant. Seeing
what service they render to the managers the deadheads are perhaps entitled to the protection
of the phrase "de mortuis."

The foregoing article brought several letters, amongst them one that deserves a little consideration.
All responsibility is disclaimed for the letter that is published verbatim:

DEAR SIR,--I have lately read an article by you on the subject of the matinée hat, with almost
every word of which I have the honour of expressing my entire disagreement. Although your views
on the topic may be absurd, they show that you have a mind capable of appreciating more than
one side of a case; so I venture to write to you about the great question of the day, the proposed
suppression of the deadhead. "Ingratitude, thou marble-hearted fiend," to use the words of
the bard; to think that after all our services to them, the managers, too blind to see the
obvious causes of their distress, should dream of abolishing the "harmless necessary" deadhead,
who often has rendered to them assistance like that of the mouse "i' the fable" to the lion.

Permit me to discuss the matter seriously. Let me begin by employing, with trifling modification,
a famous phrase by one of the dramatists of the land from which most of our English drama comes:
"There are deadheads and deadheads!" They may be put into two main groups--the first-night
deadheads and the other-nights deadheads--and there are subdivisions. Few save those immediately
concerned would mourn if the first group were abolished--you can guess that I do not belong
to it. Yet I am well acquainted with the group, since a cousin of mine, long time a popular
actor, has been of late a too-frequent attendant at these functions.

Of first-night deadheads there are four varieties: Friends of the management, including their
brother pros.; friends of the author; friends of principal players in the cast; and the critics.
It is a source of great joy to my cousin to see that on these occasion the managers know how
to put the critics in their proper places, grouping them, for instance, in rows of stalls bearing
the more remote letters of the alphabet, whilst between them and the footlights come the deadheads
of the other varieties.

Personally, I wonder whether it is wise to put the gentry of the pen in seats from which they
often hear with difficulty, and see without accuracy, in rows of seats normally belonging to
the pit, and merely posing, pro hoc vice, as stalls, and situate in the headachy region underneath
the dress circle.

According to my cousin, the first-night deadheads, as a body, are unpunctual and unappreciative.
They chatter a good deal and seem more interested in the audience than the play, and might
well be replaced by the many people who would be glad to plank down their money for a seat.
Let them go; and I warrant the managers will be none the worse--I should, indeed, except the
gentlemen of the Fourth Estate.

The case of myself and the deadheads of other nights is quite different. The managers will
find it difficult to do without us.

We are present as much for their benefit as for our pleasure.

Constatons les faits, if I may borrow another phrase from the French. Under what circumstances
are we invited? When a play is doing good business? Certainly not. It is when the company are
discussing in whispers whether the notice will go up or not, that the Fiery Cross is sent round
to us and we come and fill the house. Without us there would be an aching void, and the few
paying people, aghast at the gloom, would spread very bad reports. Managers, like nature, abhor
a vacuum. Our presence saves the situation and the face of the management. No doubt our assistance
is often vain, but the cases are numerous when, thanks to us, the management has been able
to tide over a bad week or two during a run.

"They also serve who only sit and watch" is our motto, taken, you will see, from a line by
the "organ-mouthed voice of England." Would not Dorothy have died young but for our intervention?
Would not The Lion and the Mouse have enjoyed the success it deserved if we had been called
in to dress the house until the public had discovered the piece? Many are the cases where,
during weeks of bad weather or sudden gloom we have rallied loyally to the theatre and kept
a play going.

Do services such as this count for nothing? Is my occupation to become like that of the Moor
of Venice--merely because managers are forgetful? Do we make no sacrifices when we come to
their aid? What about the expense of coming to and fro? What about wear and tear of dress clothes,
useless to some of us except for such purposes, and, in honesty I should add, so far as the
nether portions are concerned, for attending funerals?

Let me discuss what is urged against us. It is said that if we did not get free tickets we
should pay to visit the play. There is a little truth in this, but not much. We might take
tickets for the pit to see the good plays; our judgment tells us they are but few, whereas
a sense of duty compels us in our quasi-professional capacity to attend even the most deplorable
rubbish. This aspect of the matter amounts to no more than a trifle. The managers would gain
little from our occasional shillings and lose much by our frequent absence.

It is urged that we do not applaud. I maintain that deceitful applause is not in our implied
contract; certainly we never hiss or boo, though there is a splendid tradition rendered popular
by poor Lal Brough that one of us found a play so utterly bad that he left his seat, went to
the box-office, and bought a ticket, in order that he might express his opinion without prejudice
to his conscience. As a body we are playgoers of judgment and experience, and, though I protest
that we clap generously when there is a reasonable opportunity, the suggestion that we are
a claque failing to do its duty because we do not applaud bad pieces is an outrageous insult.

No, sir; I do but humbly voice the opinion of my fellow-deadheads when I say that we would
rather be abolished than have to offer sycophantic applause as part of the bargain. I insist
a little upon this aspect, because the refusal to applaud rubbish seems to be looked upon as
the dead head and front of our offending, if I may take a trifling liberty with the words of
the Swan of Avon.

I had forgotten, sir, to mention one of our most important services. It is notorious that many
plays are run in London without there being any expectation that they will make money in the
Metropolis, but in the belief that if they can be called "a great London success," our simple-minded
cousins in the country will accept them with enthusiasm. How, I ask you, are these London successes
manufactured? How could they be without our aid? I could name plays that have been run for
a hundred nights in town at a heavy loss, and yet have proved gold-mines; and I have visited
them at the call of duty and seen with my trained eyes so few of the paying public that a mere
sense of decency would have compelled the managers to close the doors if we had not been present.

Our assistance on these occasions is an odious part of our duty. It goes sadly against my conscience
to be one of a kind of stage-army audience, playing a part in order to deceive country or colonial
managers into the belief that some piece of rubbish has had a genuinely successful London run.
Is not service of this character to be counted? Surely, at the least, if we are to be abolished
it should be recognized that the old hands amongst us are entitled to some compensation. Why,
sir, seeing that serious politicians do not propose to suppress licences for the sale of poisons
without giving compensations, surely we, who have done much and suffered much, ought not to
be put into limbo without some recognition of our services. I remain, yours sincerely,

CAPUT MORTUUM

Just a line. On careful consideration of this letter, it seems only right to make a suggestion
that some doubts exist whether it is entirely genuine, but it certainly appears to contain
some grains of truth.

Theatrical Advertisements

It may be doubted whether the historian will call our period "the age of advertisement," though
some have thought so. For there are such rapid and prodigious growths in the base craft of
beating the big drum that our most audacious and colossal efforts may, to our grandchildren,
seem like a Brown Bess to a modern repeater in comparison with their means of man-allurement.
Of all the arts the one relying most upon advertisement is the drama; yet the phrase is half-unjust
to real drama.

Perhaps it is fairer to say that there is more advertisement in connexion with the theatrical
art than any other, or, indeed, all the others put together. The position is surprising; a
large mass of the reading matter of the London papers is filled with copy concerning the theatres
and players, though only a small percentage is criticism. More people would recognize each
of thirty popular performers than could identify even one of the great in other branches of
art or in science. A recent squabble about a couple of actresses has been the subject of greater
fuss than would be caused by the discovery of the lost books of Livy, of a picture by Apelles,
of the MS. of an unknown opera by Beethoven, of a method of making accumulators out of papier-maché,
or a mode of manufacturing radium at a cost of twopence a pound. There have been thousands
of columns printed concerning the marriages of (so-called) actresses to young gentlemen of family.

A digression about these marriages is permissible. Each has led to many articles on alliances
between the aristocracy and the stage, and lists of the ladies who in our times have honoured
(or dishonoured) the nobility with their hands have been given. Yet there has been little comment
upon the fact that, with two or three exceptions, the so-called actresses have had no position
of importance in the legitimate ranks of the profession. A woman may perform in a theatre,
and even draw a big salary, without being an actress, and she may have brains, beauty and popularity,
and nevertheless enjoy little chance of marrying anybody with a "handle to his name," if she
confines her work to the non-musical stage.

A distinction suggests itself--it might be that in music and the love of it by the nobly born
lies the explanation of the phenomenon; it might be that the blue-blooded youths captured these
charmers of the musico-dramatic department in order to enjoy a selfish monopoly of lovely voices,
but such is not the case. Two or three of the ladies who have won their way to the "hupper
succles" possess talent; one of them has a beautiful voice and great gifts as an actress, and
one was a brilliant dancer and became an excellent comedienne. The ruck and run of them, however,
have triumphed owing to advertisement in subtle and also in crude forms.

Really the actresses of legitimate drama, whom one should call the actresses, have a grievance
not merely in the fact that the peerage does not woo them (since in a good many instances the
bride has paid dearly for her elevation), nor merely because women of the oldest profession
open to the sex miscall themselves actresses when in trouble--the term actress being like the
word "charity"--but because their title includes many persons of notoriety who, if forced to
rely solely upon their talent, could hardly earn a pound a week in true drama. "True drama,"
for the common term "musico-dramatic" points to the fact that the fortunate nymphs belong to
the lighter (and sometimes degraded) forms of musical work and not of the legitimate drama.
Some wag, no doubt, has called their branch the leg-itimate drama.

In the mid-Victorian days the advertisements of drama were trifling. Thirty years ago the photographs
of Miss Maud Branscombe, a real beauty, but not an actress of great quality, created quite
a stir, and made her name well known throughout the land; and the publication of them was,
probably, the beginning of the present deluge. The two illustrated papers of importance published
pictures only of actresses who by means of their talent had made a genuine sensation; and therefore
but few were presented in the year. Nowadays there are from thirty to forty photographs a week
in the illustrated papers of actresses--using the term in its widest sense.

Many young ladies, who twenty years ago could not by any decent means have got their likenesses
exhibited to the public except in shop-window photographs, now simper at us fifty-two times
a year, or more, and are sometimes described as "the celebrated actress," though a few of them
never get beyond the dignity of a single silly line in the book of a musical hodge-podge. Miss
XXX smiles at us from her 40-h.p. "bloater car" which has cost a larger sum than eight years
of her salary, and the simple-minded think she must be a great star to be able to afford such
a luxury, not knowing that she herself is the luxury which someone else is unable to afford.
The humble old devices are now stale tricks. The actress in search of notoriety does not lose
her jewels: she brings an action which is reported at great length, and during it half-a-dozen
members of the profession get a splendid chance of blowing their own trumpets. There was a
cruel case a little while ago: one of these "damaged darlings" of the stage did lose her jewels--which
had cost about as much as that admirable actress Amy Roselle earned in her honourable career
with a tragic ending--but felt bound to keep silent about the loss, since to have mentioned
it would have seemed like "out-of-date" advertising. "View jew," she called it.

It would be unfair to suggest that the ladies have a monopoly, for many of the actors also
are busy in the art of advertisement--some so busy as to have little time to study the technique
of their art. However, they get rather less help from the illustrated papers, for reasons not
quite obvious, if it be correct, as some suppose, that the picture journals are bought for
the--not by--the ladies of the family.

The puff system is disadvantageous to the managers, since they have to pay fancy prices for
the services of players, no better than others who could be engaged at humble rates, because
they have acquired a specious importance by advertisement. The result has been a prodigious
increase of salaries, without any corresponding gain in revenue, for although the much-"boomed"
artist may attract people to a particular theatre, it is not to be assumed that the quantity
of playgoers is increased, or that more money is spent on the whole by the public because of
all this advertising.

The consequence to the managers, as a rule, is that expenditure is much greater, but the total
amount of receipts remains the same. Yet the managers as a body are not to be pitied, since
not only do they, unwisely, assist in this artificial glorification of the members of their
companies, but some of them also push the advertisement of their theatres beyond delicate limits,
and by the cunning strenuous efforts of their "press agents" and others beat the big drum very
loudly, sometimes sounding a false note, as when they publish, in advertisements, garbled criticisms
upon their wares.

There are some in the theatrical world who dislike and disdain the illegitimate advertisement.
Others there are less nicely scrupulous, perhaps, but not sufficiently "smart" or lucky enough
to "boom" themselves. These suffer. Advertisement is to the theatrical world like ground bait
to anglers. We who, to some extent are behind the scenes, know too well how many admirable
actors and actresses have a hard fight for a bare living because their places are taken by
people of less knowledge and skill, but more "push" and cunning. Even the general rise in salaries
does not help these reticent players, for a salary at the rate of twenty pounds a week is not
very useful if you are resting ten months in the year.

It is quite incontestable that we journalists are to be blamed. We help in the "booming"; we
are the big drum, the players provide their own trumpets. A conspiracy of silence on our part
would do much to mend matters. If for a little while we were to suppress the "personal pars."
and keep out the photographs and only write concerning the theatres strictly as critics, a
great change would take place. Probably the revenue of the theatres would not diminish sensibly,
but the expenses would. Managers and players would be forced to rely for success upon merit
and nothing else, and as a result the standard of drama and acting would be raised. This has
been so far perceived that even people belonging to the other side of the footlights have expressed
publicly the opinion that the unsatisfactory state of the theatres is partly due to their being
too much talked and written about.

Rosalind's phrase that a "good wine needs no bush" is but partly true; merit rarely succeeds
by its own virtue when it has to meet unfair competition in the shape of advertisement.

Music

A little while ago a man, who had not been to the theatre for some years, was asked his reason.
"The last time I went," he replied, "it was to a tragedy, well written and interesting, if
hardly inspired, and after the first act the band--nobody would call it an 'orchestra'--played
a thing called 'The Washington Post,' which I discovered by the aid of the programme was written
by a noise-concocter called Sousa. I sat it out; I had no choice, for I was in the middle of
a row, and in order to escape I should have had to trample upon a dozen inoffensive strangers.
During the next act the abominable noise kept coming back into my ears and distracting me,
so the drama was ruined for me."

It was pointed out to him that Mr Sousa is a very popular composer, that millions of people
love his compositions, that it is merely a minority, contemptible in number, which loathes
them. Still he caused thoughts. For a long time the musical folk have regarded the entr'acte
music simply as one of the unavoidable discomforts of the playhouse; but, really, managers
might be more careful. Apparently it is impossible to deal satisfactorily with the question.
There is a horrible dilemma; if the music is good you cannot enjoy it, because you can hardly
hear it, for the audience talk too loudly, and there is the bustle of people coming in and
out, and one catches the voices of young ladies inviting people in the stalls to take tea or
coffee or to buy chocolates, and the occupants of the pit to refresh themselves with "ginger-beer,
lemonade, bottled ale or stout," a phrase to which they give a species of rhythmical crescendo.

The difficulty is enhanced in some houses by the fact that the orchestra is hidden in a species
of box which is almost noise-proof. On the other hand, if the music is bad--generally the case--well,
it is bad; worse, still, you can hear it easily. There is a kind of kink in nature which breeds
the law that very small interruptions will mar your pleasure in good music, but nothing less
than a dynamite explosion can drown the bad; even cotton wool in your ears or the wax employed
by the sailors of Ulysses will not keep it out.

Some time ago Miss Lena Ashwell added to the debt of playgoers towards her by installing an
admirable string quartet, which rendered real music so well that many people went to her theatre
almost as much for the music as for the drama. Alas! the string quartet soon disappeared. Inquiries--of
course not of persons officially connected with the theatre--disclosed the fact that there
had been many complaints. People found it difficult to hear themselves talk, and when they
talked loud enough playgoers who were enjoying the music said "Hush!" and in other ways suggested
that they thought it bad form to chatter whilst the quartet was playing; so Miss Ashwell--very
reluctantly--was forced to change the system.

The Kingsway Theatre formed an exception--not, indeed, the only exception--to these remarks.
The whole question is very difficult. Theoretically, at least, it is deplorable that there
should be any interruption from the beginning to the end of a play. Dramas, for full effect,
should be in one act, or if they are too long, and if a concession must be made to human physical
weakness, if an opportunity must be given to people to stretch themselves or move in their
seats, there should be an interval of absolute silence or occupied by music finely indicative
of the emotional states intended to be created by the drama.

This no doubt is a theory demanding perfection. Up to a certain point efforts are made to realize
it. Under the generous management of Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree, we often have music composed
expressly for the drama by musicians of quality, and sometimes it is well enough written to
deserve and afterwards obtain performance in the concert-room. Yet in a sense it is a failure,
since it is imperfectly heard in the theatre; the fault lies with the audience, but it is hard
to blame the members of it. There is no crime in not being musical, despite Shakespeare's prodigious
phrase, "The man that hath no music in himself ... is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils,"
or Congreve's phrase concerning music and the savage breast. We know that there are many people
otherwise finely equipped and alert in matters of art who have no taste in or for music; that
there are some of irreproachable judgment in literature or painting who, like the officer in
the story, recognize no tune save "God Save the King," and that only because people stand up
when it is played. Also we are aware that some musicians are utter Philistines so far as other
branches of art are concerned.

It is difficult enough to get people to patronize the theatres, and it would be madness to
keep any away by requiring them to make great sacrifices on the altar of music.

The fact remains that the selection of music is often very carelessly or foolishly made. To
begin with, there is an appalling lack of variety. At one period "Pomp and Circumstance" was
played in almost every theatre, sometimes well, often badly, till we got sick of it. Pieces
such as "Après le Bal" and "Simple Aveu" were hurled at us every night. A statement of the
number of times that Nicolai's overture to The Merry Wives of Windsor has been played in the
theatres would stagger people; Gounod's Faust music and Edward German's charming dances from
Henry VIII., and one or two overtures by Suppé and the Stradella music, have become intolerable.

Without posing as the so-called "superior person," without demanding unpopular classics or
asking for the performance of serious chamber music or severe symphonies, or expressing a desire
for Bach--a holiday might very well be given to the Bach-Gounod "Ave Maria"--we merely pray
for greater variety and also for more careful consideration of the congruity between the play
and the character of the entr'acte and introductory music.

It should be the duty of somebody to see that an effort is made to confine the music to works
harmonious with the emotions which the dramatist intends to excite. We ought not to have the
"Teddy Bears' Picnic" just after hearing the heroine weep over the idea that her husband is
faithless; whilst the feelings caused by the agonies of Othello are not strengthened by hearing
the "Light Cavalry" overture; and the Faust ballad music falls queerly upon the despair of
the hero when he learns that he is ruined. It may be admitted that in many instances an effort
is made to carry out these entirely unoriginal views, but even in some of our most carefully
conducted playhouses there are strange lapses.

There is another point. It very often happens that the list of pieces printed upon the programme,
for which in most of the theatres a charge of sixpence is made, is a mere snare. Sometimes
none of the pieces mentioned is played, whilst to alter the order is quite a common matter.
No doubt this gives some uncharitable amusement to people who overhear the conversation of
ignorant playgoers misled by the programme. There was an unfortunate foreigner who said to
his neighbour, "Pas un aigle, leur fameux Elgar" when he thought he was listening to "Pomp
and Circumstance," whilst the orchestra in fact was playing "Whistling Rufus."

The ideal system, no doubt, was that of Miss Ashwell, who gave a long list of pieces in the
programme with numbers to them, and then had the number appropriate to the particular work
hoisted before it was played. This is only the ideal in one sense. In reality, the best course
is suggested by a famous maxim: "Optima medicina est medicina non uti." The Stage Society is
wise in following the custom sanctioned by such an august institution as La Comédie Française.
After all, we want to make the theatres less of a gamble and to reduce needless expenses so
as not to render the battle a triumph for the long purse. If the orchestras of the theatres
were in the habit of giving a real service to music by producing the shorter pieces of talented
composers who are struggling for recognition; if, as might well be the case, they offered a
hearing to the young musicians of talent of whom we now have plenty, then no doubt they would
deserve encouragement. As the matter stands, they perform too small a service to music to warrant
the tax imposed by them on drama.

CHAPTER XI

IN THE PLAYHOUSE

Laughter

Of late years there has been a good deal of censure, most of it unwritten, upon the stage management
of plays. Despite brilliant exhibitions of the art of stage management by people such as Pinero
and Mr Granville Barker, there have been more bad performances in modern times than of old.

The matter is one into which it is needless to go at large upon the present occasion; yet there
is one vice that should be mentioned. We often have much loud laughter upon the stage that
hardly causes so much as a faint echo on the other side of the footlights. Now, when the characters
in a piece laugh heartily, or at least loudly, at something supposed to divert them, which
does not appeal successfully to the sense of humour of the audience, the effect is disastrous.
It is exasperating to hear laughter--even feigned laughter--in which one cannot join.

There are people who believe that laughter is infectious, and that if the persons of the play
laugh a great deal the audience will catch the infection. This is not universally or even generally
true. A few individual players no doubt have an infectious laugh. Samary was famous for it,
and her laughter in one of Molière's farces drew all Paris; and another French actress by her
prodigious laughter in a farce at the Royalty raised the audience to hearty sympathetic outbursts.
Most players, however, though they may mimic laughter very well, are unable to make the audience
laugh sympathetically, unless really amused by what is supposed to entertain the characters
of the play.

If someone were to invent a laughter-recording machine and use it in the theatre during farces
the stage-managers would be amazed to find how often it happens that the noise of laughter
made by two or three persons on the stage is greater than that made by the whole audience;
whenever this occurs it is certain that a kind of irritation is being bred in the house for
which someone has to suffer.

This is the sort of thing that happens. A character enters and announces that something very
ludicrous has befallen another character, and proceeds to state what it is to the other persons
in the scene, the statement being interrupted by his outbursts of laughter, and they in turn
roar and hold their sides; yet often enough what is being told does not seem very amusing to
us--even, perhaps, appears puerile--so we are vexed, and smile coldly at the piece and players.
If the laughter on the stage were more moderate ours would not be the less, and we should feel
more benevolent to the play and laugh with greater freedom if and when something funny took place.

The whole question of laughter is curious and difficult. There is one fairly constant first-nighter
whose loud laughter upon insufficient provocation sometimes irritates the house, to the prejudice
of the play; not long ago one of our young actresses laughed so immoderately, as a spectator,
at trifles during a performance that some of the audience actually uttered inarticulate sounds,
intended to suggest to her that she should be quieter.

Everybody knows the terrible people who laugh in a theatre at the wrong place, or indulge in
the wrong kind of laughter, and are hilarious during pathetic passages, the pathos of which
is heightened by touches of cruel humour. Some commit this crime from simple stupidity, not
perceiving that the humour is tragic, not comic; others because they think that dignity of
character is shown if they refuse to be moved by imaginary woes. The person is hateful who
cannot shed an honest, if furtive, tear at a finely conceived and executed pathetic incident
in a play, and the more if he is proud of his insensibility or lack of imagination; and we
love an honest fellow who, like Jules Janin, wept "comme un veau" during La Dame aux Camellias.
Such insensible creatures resemble "the man that hath no music in himself." Sometimes their
conduct is so severely resented by audible protest that they are shamed into restraint.

It seems quite a long time since we have had a genuine debauch of hearty laughter in the theatre,
of "Laughter holding both his sides." There has been a great deal of laughter, but it must
be remembered that there are several kinds of laughter. So much difference exists between one
species of laughter and another that the close observer can guess from the nature of the laughter
in the theatre what is the sort of piece which provokes it.

No doubt the subject of laughter is one of great difficulty. This, perhaps, hardly agrees with
the popular idea of the term "Homeric laughter."

It may be that in the phrases of Darwin one sees a key to the difference between the laughter
at witty dialogue and the laughter caused by comic situation, the former being an expression
of intellectual amusement, not necessarily accompanied by "mere joy or happiness," whilst the
latter is to a great extent the outcome of simple, non-intellectual human pleasure. In the
case of a witty comedy one hears ripples of laughter rather than waves, and they have no cumulative
effect, one may even laugh during a great part of the evening without reaching that agony of
laughter which comes from an intensely funny situation--in fact, each laugh at dialogue is
to some extent independent of the others. In the case of a funny situation there is a crescendo,
and sometimes each outburst of laughter begins at the highest point reached by the outburst
before it, till an intense pitch is attained; and, in fact, there is really no complete subsidence
at all till the top of the climax is arrived at, but one is chuckling in between every spasm.

The term "screamingly funny" has a real meaning; one reaches an almost screaming pitch that
leads to something like physical exhaustion, and certainly causes an aching of the sides, and
even tears.

Probably the enjoyment of the spectator simply as an animal is higher, if in a sense lower,
when it comes from situations than when it is due to dialogue. Of course there is no sharp
line of demarcation. One understands, however, why successful farce is more popular than a
successful comedy, even if afterwards the audience suffer a little from aching sides; the ache
itself causes a pleasurable memory.

Some time ago there was a popular comic picture of the awakening of a young man who had been
very drunk the night before, and was suffering from a headache and a black eye, and clearly
had had some exciting adventures, of which his memory was faint; the simple legend attached
was, "What a ripping time I must have had last night!" One can imagine the playgoer after the
farce, rare, alas! which honestly may be called side-splitting, saying to himself next morning,
"What a ripping time I must have had last night!" and advising all his friends to go and see
the play.

Smoking in the Auditorium

At last permission has been given, and the statement "You may smoke" can be printed on the
programmes of the theatres licensed by the L.C.C.; and it is believed that the Lord Chamberlain
is willing to follow suit. Some of our more important managers have already announced that
they will not permit smoking in the auditorium of their playhouses, nor is this surprising.
Some of us would sooner sacrifice our own smoke than get a headache from that of others; and
the reason for the rareness of our attendance at music-halls is that we have to pay for every
visit by a smarting of the eyes and a feeling in the head somewhat like that caused by the
famous Sicilian torture.

What the ladies suffer goodness and they--the terms are perhaps synonymous--alone know. If
and when the Suffragettes come into power, we shall have a prodigious counterblast to tobacco
that would delight the Stuart James of unsainted memory or the now illustrious Balzac. For
although the militant sex has many members who rejoice in a cigarette, the majority are bitterly
adverse to an expensive habit, offensive to those who do not practise it, and exceedingly uncoquettish
when indulged in seriously. Probably if the reign of My Lady Nicotine had never begun, and
if no other enslaving habit of a like nature had taken a similar place, the theatres would
be better off than at present. Permission to smoke will not deal with the difficulty; yet probably
the habit of smoking keeps a very large number of people away from the theatre.

Without proposing to win any of the colossal prizes offered to people who guess the quantity
of tobacco imported into this country in a particular month, one may venture to assert that
there has been a tremendous increase in smoking during the last twenty years; and, indeed,
we all know that the man who does not smoke is almost a curiosity nowadays.

The rules of offices, the customs of certain trades, the etiquette of some professions, and
the like, prevent a great many men from having more than a trifling flirtation with tobacco
till after dinner. The greedy smoker may get a pipe after breakfast, a whiff during lunch-time,
and a pipe before dinner, which he takes distrustfully, because he has been told not to smoke
on an empty stomach, but he looks to the hours after dinner for the debauch that turns his
lungs from pink to brown. Moreover, there are many men who do not care to smoke till after dinner.

What a deprivation to all these to be bustled through a shortened dinner, to be scalded by
coffee hastily drunk, and merely get a few puffs before they find themselves in a playhouse,
where, by the way, so that insult may be added to injury, they often watch the actors smoking
comfortably. A wise manager would not allow smoking on the stage except in very rare cases.
The entr'actes amount to little; there is a rush of smokers, but many cannot leave their seats
without giving offence to their companions, and some are too timid to fight their way from
the centre of a row; and, after all, the entr'acte smoke, which takes place in a crowd so thick
that you cannot tell the flavour of your own cigarette from that of other people, is rather
irritating than satisfying. Of course there remains the period after the theatre, but it is
comparatively brief for the man of whom we are speaking, since after the labours of the day
and the fatigue of the evening he is tired enough to be rather anxious for sleep.

When the British householder is invited to take his womenfolk to the theatre, the thought that
he will have to make such a sacrifice affects his judgment, a fact of which he is probably
unaware. Very often it is the determining cause of refusal, and when he thinks consciously
of it, of course he is not so foolish as to put it forward, but pleads this and that and indeed
every other cause for keeping away. Many times have men said, "I don't care to go to the theatre
unless there is something awfully good, because one is not allowed to smoke"; and the question
may well be asked, What is offered to the man in place of his cigar or pipe? Shakespeare, unless
severely adapted, and, in fact, treated as the book for a picturesque musico-dramatic performance,
does not appeal very movingly to l'homme moyen sensuel, nor do the sentimental puppet stories
which form the stock of our theatre fascinate him. A rousing farce will serve, but then the
womenfolk do not want that. They are all for sentiment and dainty frocks which they may imitate--unsuccessfully--and
for handsome heroes and love-making and other prettinesses which appeal to the daughters who
live a kind of second-hand life in them, and to the mothers rendered for a while young by them,
whilst paterfamilias looks on, uncomfortable in his seat, irritated very often by draughts
which his décolletée dame does not notice--till afterwards--a little curious as to the cost
of the whole affair, and after a while, in a state of semi-somnolence, thinking a good deal
of the events of the day and the Alpine attitude of the Bank rate or the slump in Consols.

The poor dear man would be in a better humour if he were allowed his pipe. According to the
French, the plain housewife looks charming to her husband when seen through the fumes of a
good soup, and so too the plays of Mr ---- (perhaps it is wise to suppress the name) might
appear entertaining to the British householder if a cloud of tobacco smoke were to intervene.

One of the victims made a suggestion the other day which may be worth consideration. "Why not,"
he said, "add to the theatre a comfortable kind of club-room, where a fellow might see the
papers, and perhaps have a game of bridge, or even billiards, when the curtain was up, whilst
he could keep his wife in good humour by paying her a call during the intervals?" There is
something rather touching in the idea of a little crowd trooping in instead of bustling out
when the curtain falls.

The innovation might at least have one advantage--it would force the managers to be intelligent
enough to make a really audible noise a few minutes before the end of each entr'acte, so as
to give people the chance of settling down in their places before the curtain rises. Of the
many incomprehensible things connected with the theatre one of the most puzzling is the fact
that quite conscientious playgoers get caught outside the auditorium after the curtain is up.
The management is anxious that as many people as possible should go to the bars, yet they render
it very difficult to get there; they desire that those who have gone should return to their
seats before the curtain rises, lest friction should be caused, but all they do as a rule is
to ring some inaudible bell, and cause the attendant to whisper, as if delicately announcing
bad news, "Curtain just going up, gentlemen," and neither curtain nor whisper gives long enough
time to enable people to settle down comfortably.

It is to be feared that this sort of club idea would not really work, for reasons some of them
quite obvious. The fact remains that paterfamilias, still a person of some importance, is invited
to patronize the theatre, and not only asked to pay a good deal of money in order to do so
but forced to make a number of physical sacrifices; and at the end is offered, as a rule, the
kind of piece not intended to please him, but designed for the taste of his womenfolk.

Here we see one of the reasons for the popularity of the musical comedy. The householder is
not required to trouble himself to understand a plot which hardly exists; he may go to sleep
if he pleases, or think over his affairs in between the tit-bits without losing the thread;
there are simple tunes, which certainly aid his digestion, and broad elementary humours that
appeal to his sense of fun; and, if he is in a sentimental vein, whatever love-making there
may be in the piece has no subtlety to exasperate him.

Despite these things, let us hope that the West End managers will be hostile to the smoking;
for, after all, far too much of our drama at present is intended to please the comfortable
Philistine and his appropriate womenfolk; and the people keenly interested in drama as a branch
of art are prepared even to sacrifice a pipe or a cigar in the pursuit of their peculiar and
hardly popular pleasure. Moreover, it is likely the theatres would exhibit the snobbishness
of the fashionable halls and restaurants and taboo the pipe which every wise man prefers to
the cigar or cigarette for serious smoking.

Conduct of the Audience

When Mr Joseph Holbrooke was conducting the overture to Pierrot and Pierrette at His Majesty's
Theatre he interrupted the orchestra in order to request some members of the audience to stop
talking. These speakers were people in the stalls, and the composer-conductor could hear that
their conversation was about shopping--not Chopin, which, alas! is sometimes pronounced as
if the name rhymed with "popping."

No one can feel surprised that a composer finds it impossible to do his work adequately as
conductor when there is audible conversation among members of the audience. Mr Holbrooke drew
attention to what happens very often in our playhouses: people come apparently entertaining
the idea that if they have paid for their seats they owe no duty towards their neighbours or
the author, composer or players. This idea, unfortunately, is not confined to those who have
paid for their seats, since some of the dramatic critics, and also several of the ordinary
"deadheads," set a bad example.

The most noisome offenders are those who come late on purpose, because they are anxious to
draw public attention to their existence. They, of course, are snobs of the worst water, whatever
their social status or the cost of their clothes, furs and jewellery; you see them bustling
in a quarter of an hour after the curtain has risen, shoving their way along past people who
rise reluctantly, and hear them chattering whilst they take off cloaks and wraps before settling
down in their seats. Very little less detestable are those who, arriving late unwillingly,
behave otherwise in the same fashion. One of these brawlers defended herself by alleging that
there ought to be a gangway down the middle of the stalls, and that her conduct was a protest.

Of course there ought to be a gangway, and some day the County Council will insist upon the
formation of one in every theatre, or else force the manager to put the rows of stalls so far
apart that people can pass along them in comfort. We know that on the whole managers do not
care much about the comfort of their patrons; they seem to act on the supposition that plays
are of only two classes, those so attractive that you cannot keep the public away and those
so unattractive that you cannot get it to come.

The London théâtre de luxe is still a dream of the future, though undoubtedly some playhouses
are vastly more comfortable than others. The authorities are lax in this matter, as in the
matter of exits; the crush in getting out of most of the playhouses is abominable. No doubt
there are extra exits which might be used in case of peril; people ought to be compelled to
use them every night, so that a habit would be established on the part of audiences and also
of the attendants.

The patience with which the audience endures the misconduct of some of its members is surprising.
We hear inarticulate noises of disapproval when people gossip in the stalls and occasionally
somebody goes so far as to whisper "Don't talk"; the result is that the chatterers chatter
rather more quietly for a little while, and soon are as noisy as before. Frequently some members
laugh scornfully at pathetic passages moving the heart of most of the house, and this laughter
is often due to a snobbish desire to show superiority to those who weep.

We have heard something lately of a phrase about "collective psychology and the psychology
of crowds." The phenomenon referred to very rarely has much effect in the London playhouses
at the first night: on these occasions there are too many discordant elements. Most of the
critics form non-conductors to the passage of what has been regarded as analogous to an electrical
current, and their non-conductivity is very little greater than that of many of the people
who receive complimentary tickets or have the honour of being on the first-night list. Perhaps
the general public is unaware that the more fashionable theatres have a list of people to whom
is accorded a preferential allotment of seats.

Sometimes there is a momentary thrill; one feels distinctly that the audience is in unison,
and that the pitch of feeling of the individual is heightened by the feelings of the crowd.
These moments are generally caused by pieces of acting or by what is rarely contrived, and
can only happen once in the history of a piece, a successful, effective surprise. As an instance,
there was a unanimous gasp of surprise and pleasure at the brilliant coup de théâtre with which
John Oliver Hobbes ended a difficult scene in The Ambassador, and then came a prodigious outburst
of applause. What a loss to our stage the premature death of that admirable novelist, who showed
an amazing gift for the technique of the theatre.

One reads not unfrequently accounts of an exhibition of this "collective psychology" in the
playhouse, even in the London theatres. Some of such accounts are untrustworthy, and due to
mere hysterical writing by those who profess to record them. No doubt the curious shyness of
the English plays its part: a man will laugh, or clap his hands, or hiss, or "boo" when others
are so doing, who from mere mauvaise honte--a convenient untranslatable term--would make no
noise if alone. Perhaps one might safely say that the smaller the crowd the smaller relatively
as well as absolutely the noise due to the exhibition of the emotion of its component parts.
This, however, has little to do with the phenomenon in question, which very rarely operates
in London, because the upper classes think it ungenteel to express emotion in public.

People read stories of scenes of "tremendous enthusiasm" on a first night, of Miss or Mrs A
or Mr B receiving a dozen calls: as a rule they are absurdly exaggerated--they mean that the
bulk of the pit and gallery have applauded heartily and persistently, and so, too, a small
proportion of people in the upper boxes, dress circle, and stalls, the ratio steadily decreasing;
that the employees of "the front of the house" energetically did their duty; in many cases
that the unrecognized claque has earned its fee; that the curtain has been raised and lowered
with frantic energy, and that a large number of people, after some preliminary clapping, regarded
the scene with curiosity and amusement, their pulses beating at quite a normal pace.

Things may be different in other lands. Perhaps our ancestors were less "genteel," certainly
there were fewer "non-conductors" in the houses; but still it is doubtful whether belief should
be given to some of the old stories about tremendous exhibitions of emotion in the playhouse.
One has to discount many of the triumphs of great singers because there is an element of desire
for an "encore" in them. Moreover, music is beside the question, because its appeal is of a
different character from that of drama.

These remarks may seem to have a grudging tone, to sound as if one desired to belittle the
triumphs of the stage: in reality their object is simply to state what a careful observer regards
as facts bearing upon an interesting, important question. Broadly speaking, it is doubtful
whether in our theatres the phenomenon discussed under the name of "the psychology of crowds"
is manifested to a substantial effect, except on very rare occasions, partly, no doubt, because
a London audience is intensely heterogeneous--a wave of emotion in a West End playhouse has
to surmount a large number of obstacles, losing force at each, or, to change the figure, a
current of emotion has to pass through a great many bad conductors.

In respect only of laughter does the crowd exercise its power at all frequently, and then,
as a rule, the subject-matter is not of the finest quality. Laughter certainly is infectious,
curiously infectious, but it is more catching when caused by farce than by comedy. Few of us
could deny that, as a member of the crowd, he has not sometimes laughed against his will and
judgment at matters possessing a humble standard of humour. We are not grateful afterwards
to the author or the low comedians--we suffer from an unpleasant loss of self-respect when
we have been coerced by the crowd into laughing at mere buffooneries.

Concerning the Pit

Sometimes the ticket sent for a first night suggests a belief by the manager in the theory
that the further one is from the stage the better one can see and hear--a theory which is accepted
as accurate by none save the managers themselves. Possibly the seats in question are allotted
in order to keep us at an agreeable distance from the orchestra, which in many theatres is
altogether undesirable, or at least plays much music of an exasperating character. When such
tickets come, and the seat is in the last row of the stalls, it is worth while to go to the
theatre unpunctually before the appointed time.

By the way, it is noticeable that theatres are divisible into two classes--those at which the
curtain is raised with a military severity at the very moment when the clock strikes, and others
where a quarter of an hour's grace is given--to the players. In the case of French companies,
old hands never hesitate about playing "another hundred up" before starting for the playhouse.
A wise manager would be guided a little by the weather and always allow a few minutes' margin
when it is foggy or rainy, for the audiences are necessarily delayed by such weather.

By getting to one's seat early, even before the time when the band is indulging in that part
of its performance which is said to have been peculiarly agreeable to the Shah of Persia who
visited London in the seventies, we enjoy certain humours.

Incidentally, it may be asked whether the ordinary playgoer exactly appreciates the position
of the last rows of the stalls. Probably he believes that there is a gulf fixed between the
stalls and the pit, and does not know that there is merely a barrier. Now a barrier can be
removed easily--a gulf cannot. When paying his half-guinea the simple visitor imagines that
the difference between the price of his seat and that of a place in the pit is to a great extent
based upon an advantage of nearness--although it appears that some managers do not think that
propinquity involves a gain.

As a matter of fact, a considerable portion of the floor of the house is occupied by stalls
or pit, according to the nature of the business done in the theatre. If a piece is not attracting
fashionable folk the barrier is moved towards the footlights, the chairs are changed to benches,
and the place which at the première some deadhead proudly occupied as a stall takes a "back
seat," and sinks to the indignity of becoming pit; and, of course, the converse sometimes happens.

It is amusing to hear the people on the other side discussing the entrance of the stall first-nighters,
many of whom are identified. One hears comments upon the gowns, and sometimes severe remarks
about the alleged misdeeds of the professional critics, as well as unflattering observations
concerning the personal appearance of some of us. We might a tale unfold that would freeze
a good many young bloods, but for a nice question of confidence.

The inhabitants of the pit really deserve a study. It may be said that they are sometimes more
interesting than the play itself. There is a tradition that wisdom lies in the pit as Truth
at the bottom of a well. Many articles have been written pointing out that the judgment of
the pit is sounder than the opinion of other parts of the house, that the pitites are the real,
serious, reflective, critical playgoers whose views are worth more than those of the playgoers
either in the gallery or the most costly seats.

For a long time some of us believed in this tradition, probably, in fact, until circumstances
caused us to move forward and study plays from the other side of the ambulatory barrier. One
thing is certain--the pit plays a very great part in determining on a first night the apparent
failure or success of a play, for on most occasions comparatively little noise is made by way
of applause or condemnation save in the pit and gallery.

The stalls are remarkably frigid, though, on the other hand, they never, or hardly ever, show
any active signs of disapproval. Somewhat false impressions are produced upon critics nearer
to the footlights than the back seats. One of them the other day stated "the fall of the curtain
was greeted with hearty and long-sustained applause from all parts of the house." Yet three
of us noted--and compared notes--that after a little clapping, followed by one elevation of
the curtain, the stalls did not contribute at all to the cheers. That evening there was a peculiarity
in the pit's applause. It was "patchy." Here and there little groups were very noisy, and at
the wings were some people from the "front of the house," quite enthusiastic about a performance
of which they could have seen very little if they had attended to their duties, whilst there
were noiseless areas of considerable size.

There is no need to suggest that the pit lacks judgment merely because it is composed very
largely of those from whose mouths, according to the Psalmist, cometh forth wisdom; not, indeed,
that in our West End houses there are present those very youthful playgoers who cause a disturbance
by their audible refusal of the attendant's proposal of "ginger-beer, lemonade, bottled ale,
or ... stout," being tired perhaps of the last-named beverage owing to the quantities they
have taken--vicariously. Nevertheless, the pit on many first nights is wonderfully young; indeed,
we calculated the other night that the average age of its temporary inhabitants was much less
than half that of the distinguished company representing the play, and considerably less than
that of the people whose late arrival caused murmurs and even words of disapproval.

It is natural for youth to be more enthusiastic than middle age, so one may easily explain
the fact that the pit is more exuberant in demonstration than the stalls without the theory
of the electrical effect of contact on crowds, a theory which every journalist at some stage
of his career believes himself to be the first to have discovered.

Not only are they very youthful in the pit, but they have grace as well as youth. The other
night in the front row there were only three members of the sex which does not know how to
get out of a shop without making a purchase, and in the back rows, although the percentage
of "angels" was not so high, it was quite noteworthy. Probably in all parts of the house, except
at one or two theatres, there is a preponderance of women in the audience, and this may have
some subtle connexion with the converse proportion of male and female characters in the cast;
it may be observed that there is some change in the proportion of the sexes at theatres where
there is no actor whose photographs sell prodigiously.

A sort of alteration seems quietly taking place in the costume of the pit, and not a few of
the young ladies have come very close to a solution of a problem baffling to the Englishwomen
belonging to what one may fairly regard as of somewhat higher stratum--the problem of inventing
and wearing a demi-toilette.

It should be added that in some theatres the critics have good seats allotted to them. Indeed
as a rule the courtesy shown to us is in something like direct ratio to the importance of the
management.

Speaking for a moment seriously, one may say that whilst the ordinary first-night pit is full
of enthusiasts, it would be rash to attach very great value to its manifestations of opinion
concerning the value of really ambitious plays, though in respect of most pieces, and performances
too, its judgment may be regarded as satisfactory, since it fairly represents those aimed at
by authors and players. The higher class of comedy and the severely intellectual drama demand
a more mature judgment.

Why do we go to the Theatre?

To ask why people go to the theatre seems silly; for the answer appears to be quite obvious;
yet as soon as one answer is offered half-a-dozen others suggest themselves. Let us put down
a few roughly: for entertainment, for amusement, for distraction, for instruction, to see the
play or players in vogue, to be seen, to have something to talk about. Also there are cross-divisions
and combinations of these; perhaps none of them is quite exclusive. Another question may be
asked: Why do people stay away though able to go? How is it that some find insufficient pleasure
in them?--for "pleasure" may be used as a term embracing the first four answers.

A cook, a Frenchwoman, once in the service of a dramatic critic, did not visit the theatre,
and stated as her reason for not caring to do so that she took no interest in the affairs of
other people; and secondly, that if she went and got moved by the troubles of the dramatis
personae the thought suddenly occurred to her that they were not real persons and real troubles,
and therefore she had wasted her sympathy, wherefore she was vexed, being an economical creature,
so far as sympathy, not butter, is concerned. On the other hand, she admitted the payment of
a number of visits to Pézon's circus, where they had a lion with a bad reputation, into whose
jaw at every performance a décolletée lady put her painted head. For the cordon-bleu hoped
that the lion would exhibit disapproval of the paint and powder by chumping off the offending
head, and that would have been frightfully thrilling.

Also she had a grievance because our executions are not public. She would like to see the murderers
gigoter un peu; to her that would be a more sublime spectacle than the most prodigious effects
at His Majesty's.

The papers lately contained accounts of the production at a music-hall of bioscope pictures
of a horrible catastrophe in which many lives were lost, and stated that they were received
with applause from the spectators, who derived much pleasure from looking at them. The French
wielder of the bouquet-garni, in default of more bloodthirsty entertainment, would be delighted
by them. It has often been remarked that an element of danger in a public performance is an
element of attraction, and that the attraction is in proportion to the danger. These remarks
are not entirely disconnected: they are relevant in considering the question why people go
to the theatre.

For, with all respect to the establishments of the highest class, one must recognize the fact
that there is a family relation between the noblest theatre and the humblest side-show at a
country fair or East End museum. To be juster, the family relation is not between the things
seen, but between the feelings which prompt people to pay money to see them.

It is often a mere toss-up whether X, Y or Z goes to a theatre or a music-hall, or a collection
of "side shows" or a boxing-match; and the only solid wall of demarcation in pleasuredom lies
between going to see something which pretends to be something else, and going to see something
which admits itself to be its painful self. On the one hand, we have Smith posing as the Prince
of Denmark; on the other the fat woman, whose unpleasant mass of unhealthy flesh is real--the
lady giant hovers between reality and fiction. On the one side art, on the other artless entertainment;
but, after all, it is difficult to say that this wall is very solid, since sometimes the artless
department is abominably artful, and sometimes, as in the famous story of the mimic with a
live pig in a poke, the real is an impostor.

The interest in the matter lies mainly with the audience, with the human beings greedy for
pleasure and entertainment, with the traveller who, after a happy evening at the Comédie Française,
endeavours to get taken to the abattoirs of Paris, or risks his life in a visit to the outer
Boulevards in order to visit some pestilential Café de la Mort where he will see crude horrors
contrived by looking-glasses, drink bad beer out of papier-maché skulls, and receive, in change
for his money, base or demonetised coin from waiters dressed as undertakers. And, again, our
traveller, after getting a headache at the Louvre and vainly trying to find the Mediaeval improprieties
at the Maison Cluny, will refresh himself by a visit to the Morgue, to say nothing of Le Musée
Grévin.

Why, then, do we go to the theatre? Why does the theatre exist? Why do the enthusiasts rage
and profess that it ought to be endowed? Well, upon reflection, one sees that there are two
bodies of playgoers, both, no doubt, in search of pleasure: and, speaking very broadly, the
one is the little group whose curiosity concerning life is almost entirely intellectual, and
the other is the vast body of sensation-hunters, to whom the latest showy play, the newest
musical comedy, the divorce case of the moment, the freak in vogue, are the means of real excitement--an
excitement which they want to obtain with the minimum expenditure of time, trouble or thought.

A remarkable thing to the observer is the hostility of the sensation-monger to intellectual
amusement. If a play has a gloomy ending it is promptly denounced as painful by the people
who welcome an entertainment consisting of biograph pictures representing some awful catastrophe,
and by persons who revel in a good series of animated photographs of somebody being guillotined,
or tortured in a Russian gaol, and do not care to waste their tears over the sorrows of people
in a play, though perhaps a really roaring farce would entertain them, if it included a good
deal of knockabout business. The uncivilized people who consider that practical joking is permissible
are as a rule bitterly hostile to serious drama.

It is hard to discover any clear theory in relation to these facts. Attempts to establish a
proposition are met by the fact that the sensation-monger who delights in the horrors of real
life, who gets joy from a thrillingly dangerous performance at a music-hall, when he goes to
the theatre sometimes seems pleased by a piece almost in a direct ratio to its unreality. A
finely observed comedy, such as The Silver Box of Mr Galsworthy, irritates the sensation-monger;
it is so absurdly true that he does not think it clever of the author to have written it. Tom
Jones contains useful matter for thought on the subject. Something prodigious out of the lumber-room
of the theatres impresses him far more. In England the explanation of this may be a strangely
twisted feeling of utilitarianism, which causes us to object to thinking without being paid
for thinking; wherefore it seems an act almost of impudence to ask us to pay money to see a
play which cannot be understood or appreciated without serious thought.

CHAPTER XII

MISCELLANEOUS

Signor Borsa on the English Theatres

Those mere casual playgoers who may think that the articles on drama in The Westminster Gazette
have been needlessly pessimistic ought to read "The English Stage of To-Day," by Mario Borsa,
translated by Mr Selwyn Brinton, and published by Mr John Lane; a lively, interesting book,
in which are expressed vigourously the ideas of a very acute, intelligent writer upon our modern
theatre. "Hence it is no wonder that all that is artificial, absurd, commonplace, spectacular,
and puerile is rampant upon the English stage; that theatrical wares are standardized, like
all other articles of trade...." "Still, in spite of all this booming and histriomania, one
of the greatest intellectual privations from which the foreigner suffers in London is, I repeat,
the lack of good comedy and good prose drama." Such sentences are specimens of his views about
the current drama of London, and he endorses the sad phrase of Auguste Filon, "Le drame Anglais,
à peine né, se meurt."

In some respects the book is surprising. The author exhibits an intimacy of knowledge that
appears almost impossible in one who, for a long time after his arrival in London, was "ignorant
of the very language of the country." He has learnt our tongue well enough to give us some
literary criticisms of value, notably upon the Irish theatre and the poetry of Mr W.B. Yeats,
and he has made himself acquainted in a remarkable way with the plays of the last fifteen years
or so, with the theatrical clubs and the various movements of revolt against our puppet theatre.
There are slips, no doubt, such as the suggestion that the Independent Theatre introduced Ibsen
to London, it being the fact that several of his plays had been presented before this Society
was born.

Signor Borsa has something to say on most of the topics of the times. For instance, he deals
with the Censor! "And here we touch the root of the evil--the Censor! It is the Censor who
is the real enemy--the ruthless, insatiable Cerberus." He writes upon the question of speeches
in the theatres. "In Italy a new play is sometimes so heartily hissed after one or two acts
that the manager is forced to cut short the performance and proceed forthwith to the farce.
This never happens in England, partly because every 'first night' is attended by a claque,
judiciously posted and naturally well disposed. Not that these 'first-nighters' are paid to
applaud, as in Paris or Vienna. Neither are they labelled as claqueurs. They are simply enthusiasts,
and their name is Legion.... It is they who salute the actor-manager after the curtain has
fallen with persistent demands of 'Speech! Speech!' And it is to the request of these good
and faithful friends that he accedes at last, in a voice broken by emotion, due to their spontaneous
and generous reception."

Of late some people have been suggesting gleefully that the vogue of "G.B.S." is on the wane.
His popularity has been the cause of great annoyance to the mass of the public and those critics
who stand up for a theatre of "old scenic tricks which were long familiar to me--sensational
intrigues, impossible situations, men and women who could have been neither English nor French
nor Italian." They will be glad to learn that Signor Borsa says: "Shaw's dramatic work is pure
journalism, destined to enjoy a certain vogue, and then to be swallowed up in the deep pit
of oblivion. Nor should I be surprised if this vogue of his were already on the decline....
Shaw, with all his wit and all his go, already shows signs of becoming terribly monotonous."
According to him, in "Shaw there were the makings of a writer of talent."

Let us add that no evidence exists to show the decline of the author's popularity; it may also
be said that much of "G.B.S." is quite incomprehensible to a foreigner. What Signor Borsa calls
the "restaurateurs-proprietors," and also the actor-managers--with a few exceptions--may hold
aloof, but Mr Shaw has brought to the theatres a new public, and taken a good many of the old
as well. Apparently Signor Borsa's hostility to "G.B.S." is founded on the fact that the dramatist
is a revolutionary and refuses to accept the theatrical formulae which satisfy the Italian.
One must, however, point out that whilst Signor Borsa's general conclusions concerning the
most remarkable person of the English theatre are unsound, his remarks in detail are acute
and luminous, and some of them well deserve the consideration of the victim.

The curiosity of the book is the treatment of the acting. According to Signor Borsa, "the acting
has little to boast of. A century, or even half-a-century, ago the case was different. But
the glories of Kean, Macready, Kemble, and Siddons now belong to history and but yesterday
Sir Henry Irving stood alone--the unique representative in England of the great tragic art....
In conveying irony, the English actor is in his element; in comic parts, he is simply grotesque.
The buffoon may occasionally be found upon the English stage--the brilliant comedian never.
In tragic parts he easily assumes an exaggerated gravity and solemnity; in sentimental rôles
he is frankly ridiculous."

Frankly is a mistranslation, or else the adjective is ridiculous, if not "frankly" ridiculous.
Signor Borsa falls into a very common error. He thinks that because English actors do not gesticulate
a great deal they act badly. This might be true if they represented on the stage a gesticulative
race. The author points out carefully that we are not a gesticulative race, and fails to see
that it would be bad acting for the player to represent an Englishman as being naturally gesticulative.
The English Jew is more gesticulative than the ordinary Englishman; the Anglo-Jewish players--and
there are many--curb themselves when they are playing British characters, and of course they
act artistically in so doing.

The function of the actor is to impress the audience before him, nine-tenths of which consist
of people who would regard him as ridiculous and unnatural if, when acting an ordinary English
part, he were to gesticulate very much. We have seen Italian players of ability representing
English characters, and, putting aside Duse, the obvious and correct criticism was that they
were very funny and quite incorrect in their exuberance of gesture.

Irving is the only actor whom he discusses; Ellen Terry the one English actress. This, of course,
is absurd. It indicates, however, very usefully the attitude of the foreign critic towards
our stage. Also, perhaps, it is a little chastening to our players. The foreigner is able to
understand and appreciate to some extent the best of our plays; the acting says nothing to
him, or at least nothing flattering. Our comedians are "buffoons," our lovers are "frankly
ridiculous," and the Italian actors are superior in "temperament"--whatever that may mean.
Ours, it appears, are better than the Italians in some humble ways: "They dress their parts
better and wear their clothes better," and they even know their parts--a vulgar quality which
apparently is rare on the Italian stage--also they are more cultured, and "possess to a greater
degree the dramatic literary sense."

One may accept, sadly, Signor Borsa's view, which is shared by most Continental and many British
critics, that the ordinary English drama is utterly unworthy of the English people; but we
certainly have abundance of competent players, and a fair number of dramatists anxious and
able to give the public far better drama than they get, as soon as managers are willing to
produce it; the great trouble is that the managers are afraid of the public, and although they
might wisely be more venturesome, they have, in the present mass of playgoers, a terrible public
to cater for. The facts and figures offered by Signor Borsa show too eloquently that the managers
attempt to deal with the difficulty by a very short-sighted policy. Still, the position is
less desperate than the Italian critic supposes, and much of what has happened since Auguste
Filon wrote the line already quoted shows that he was too hasty in his judgment.

"G.B.S." and the Amateurs

There is a story--its untruth is indisputable--to the effect that on a death of a man of unconventional
character his mournful family, after much trouble, hit upon the happy thought of satisfying
their desire to leave an amiable and incontestable record concerning him by having inscribed
upon his tombstone the following epitaph:--"He never acted in private theatricals."

A touch of acrimony seems discernible in certain utterances of Mr George Bernard Shaw about
amateur theatricals which makes one doubt whether such a statement in his case would contain
even the trifling percentage of truth that is customary in epitaphs. Indeed, he causes an impression
that he has really done something worse than play in amateur theatricals, and even, although
an amateur, has appeared in a professional performance. There has been a rather needless fury
in his remarks; it is a case doubtless of more sound than sentiment. This, however, is pretty
George's way; where some would use a whip he "fillips" people with "a three-man beetle."

They say that all the amateur Thespians' clubs in the kingdom have passed fierce resolutions
about him, and a monster petition is being prepared praying for his outlawry or excommunication.
The cause was a letter concerning the question whether dramatists ought to reduce their fees
for performance by amateur clubs of copyright works, and the trump card of the opponents was
the fact that many of the entertainments are given for the benefit of charities. Mr Zangwill
it was who observed that "charity uncovers a multitude of shins"; perhaps one may add, clumsily,
that charity suffereth long and applauds.

Certainly, amateur performances rarely contain anything intentionally so humorous as the idea
of suggesting to "G.B.S." that he should reduce his fees by way of an indirect contribution
to the fund for the restoration of some village church or the like. Apparently the common answer
to the author of Mrs Warren's Profession is a sort of paraphrase of the line "Nobody axt you,
sir, she said."

It would be interesting to know how many performances, if any, have been given by the great
unpaid of pieces by the now successful theatrical iconoclast. Who knows whether his wrath has
not a touch of the spretae injuria formae? Perhaps he is longing to have Caesar and Cleopatra
represented by some amiable association that has hitherto confined itself to the comedies of
Bulwer Lytton and farces by Maddison Morton. It may be the dream of his life to see what people
untrammelled by considerations of filthy lucre, except so far as the benefit of the charity
is concerned, can make of The Philanderers.

Judging by the public press and the circulars, Mr Shaw is not inaccurate in his view that the
army of amateurs does comparatively little service for drama. Its taste seems to be for showy,
artificial plays, and its tendency to seek out works that do not act themselves because of
their truth of characterisation but afford unlimited scope for originality on the part of performers--generally
half-baked performers.

This does not apply to all amateur societies; at least we know that there are a number of associations
not for the purposes of gain, such as the Elizabethan Stage Society, now, alas! dead, which
showed a very stern enthusiasm for the higher forms of art. They appear to be the exception.
There was a time when it was difficult to find a man in the street who had not acted in Ici
on Parle Français or played in Money or appeared in Our Boys, and nowadays it seems that though
there has been some progress, the austere drama is still unpopular, and that when funds are
sufficient artificial costume plays are in vogue.

Mr Shaw apparently believes that vanity is the fundamental motive of amateur performances.
It may be that this is not wholly true, and that the real impulse is the elementary instinct
for dressing-up. Savages, we know, have a craving for strange costumes which enable them to
disguise and even disfigure their persons. Children delight in dressing up. Possibly one of
the great joys of the amateur lies in the fact that he has an opportunity of wearing clothes
pertinent to somebody else, and, if he be a male, is curious to see how he looks and is looked
upon with the whiskers of the mid-Victorian beau or the imperial of the Third Empire, and so on.

The amiable philosopher would find a pleasanter explanation, would suggest that the desire
to "dress up" is based upon a modest doubt concerning the charms of one's own individuality--how
agreeable to believe this! At the bottom of the matter lies this ugly contention on the part
of the cynic--he alleges that the amateur wants to act not for the benefit of the charity,
the name of which is invoked hypocritically, but for the gratification of his vanity, and the
authors are unable to see why the clubs should gratify the conceit of their members at the
expense of those who write the plays.

After all, the matter is one of domestic economy, and the wisest thing seems to be to leave
people to make their own bargains; and if the result is that the best plays are the dearest
and the least performed, the result may be somewhat advantageous. It is always uncertain whether
the individual spectator who has witnessed an amateur performance of a piece will be anxious
to see how it really acts or determine never to suffer from it again. Perhaps it is rather
cheap to scoff at the amateur performances, some of which, no doubt, are excellent.

Moreover, it cannot be doubted that in a good many cases the amateur stage provides recruits
for the profession, and some of our most popular players--like Mr Shrubb and other famous runners--have
begun their careers by merely striving for "the fun of the thing." Probably many who now stroll
the Strand or haunt "Poverty Corner" fruitlessly, were induced to embark upon their vain career
by the polite plaudits of amiable friends whose judgments were worthless even when honest.
Perhaps some of them, or of their friends, begin to believe that Mr Zangwill was not quite
untruthful in his phrase that "players are only men and women--spoilt," which, of course, he
did not intend to be of universal application.

Still, it can hardly be denied that "G.B.S." was needlessly severe. The amateur actors do very
little harm and cause a great deal of innocent amusement which outweighs the harm. It may be
that, except in dealing with serious plays, there is an unfair proportion of amusement on the
farther side of the footlights, but it must be recollected that the performers have many trials
and annoyances, and often make severe sacrifices--of friendships.

If the authors of established reputation seem too greedy the clubs have an easy remedy. At
the present moment the cry of the unacted is unusually bitter and loud. Why, then, should not
these associations, able as some are to give performances that are at least adequate if not
exactly brilliant, save as regards a few individual players, assist the drama by giving a chance
to the unacted of seeing their works on the stage? In many cases plays now rejected by managers
because they have an instinctive feeling that there is some flaw which defies precise indication
might, after such a production, be corrected and rendered acceptable and valuable.

Cant about Shakespeare

In a criticism upon the new Lyceum revival of Hamlet there was a sentence which impressed me
greatly. It appeared in a morning paper of prodigious circulation, and was in these words:
"Mr Matheson Lang's Hamlet ... is what may be called a popular one, and likely to be extremely
popular. And this is well, for 'tis better to see Shakespeare in any form than not to see him
at all, so that these performances deserve every support, being in some ways not unlike the
productions ... which serve to keep alive the classics and old traditions of art." This criticism,
or rather statement, is popular--"extremely popular." People seem to think that there is virtue
in producing Shakespeare and in acting Shakespeare and in reading Shakespeare. It would be
pleasant to feel confident that there is virtue in writing about him--I have written so much--but
probably nobody takes this extreme view. Now, some have a different opinion.

A strenuous dramatist, namesake of a contemporary of the national dramatist, ventures to call
the "Swan of Avon" a "blackleg" instead of a black swan, and ascribes his popularity with managers
to the fact that his name no longer spells bankruptcy, and that no royalties have to be paid
on performances of his plays, in consequence of which they are often, or sometimes, produced
where, otherwise, modern works would be presented.

It is not necessary to go so far as this to reach a sane view on the subject--a view which
probably lies between the extremes. Certainly we may well wonder whether and why it is a good
thing to produce Shakespeare plays unless the production is of fine quality. Everybody is acquainted
with Lamb's essay, with what one may call "Elia's" paradox, on Shakespeare, the vigorous truth
of which is partly counterbalanced by the fact that few play readers have anything like his
powers of imagination, and that he probably underrated the knowledge of Shakespeare possessed
by playgoers, or at least by West End first-nighters.

Indeed, one may go further and say that during any run of a Shakespearean play it will be visited
by some thousands of people well acquainted with it and some hundreds who immediately detect
any alteration of the text. The enjoyment of these expert or semi-expert playgoers of a performance
of a Shakespeare play, when compared with their pleasure in reading it, is probably much higher
than Lamb imagined. It is, however, hardly for them that these dramas are revived, and clearly
for quite a different audience that the Lyceum production is given.

Is it a really good thing that Hamlet should be offered to those who have little or no acquaintance
with the tragedy? A study of the audience on the first night of Hamlet at the Lyceum gave the
idea that the majority were far from appreciating the work, and did not, at any rate, get a
greater or different pleasure from it than they would have had if instead of the Shakespearean
dialogue they had been offered the blank verse of any ordinary respectable writer.

Why should it be otherwise? Why should the hundreds of people in the sixpenny gallery understand
the conduct of Hamlet, which has puzzled the most learned and acute critics of all countries
for centuries? A person hearing the play on the stage, and otherwise unacquainted with it,
must be bewildered. How is he to understand why Hamlet is so rude to Ophelia, yet later on
declares that he loved her prodigiously? What is he to think of a Hamlet who takes so much
trouble to find out whether his uncle is guilty, and then tamely submits to be sent out of
the country by him, leaving his father unavenged? What opinion is he to form of the perfectly
idiotic, complex conspiracy between the King and Laertes to get rid of Hamlet? Why should Hamlet
appeal to him, except as a melodrama with a flabby hero, a feeble heroine, a very small amount
of comic relief, and far too much dialogue, much of which is almost unintelligible? What can
he make of the great soliloquies, of the purple patches, written in involved sentences, embellished
by curious archaic terms of speech, elaborate figures, and puzzling inversions, which at the
best can only give him a vague idea of what is supposed to be said?

If you were to send a highly educated man, ignorant of the play--perhaps an apparent contradiction--he
would at first be bored or irritated. No doubt his ear might catch and his mind retain some
profound phrases, and he would promptly recognize the grandeur of the verse in many passages,
so that his curiosity would be awakened, and cause him either to read the play or see it time
after time. What about the man in the street, the railway guard, the 'bus conductor, the "shover,"
the humbler clerks, and their womenfolk, who are patrons of the gallery; will they get beyond
one visit? Can they recognize profound thoughts at first hearing, or at all? Are they able
to distinguish beautiful blank verse from bombast? Are the soliloquies of Hamlet likely to
lure them to the severe intellectual task of reading the play scrupulously?

Of course these questions do not concern members of the "Gallery First-Nighters'" Club. They
may or may not patronize the sixpenny gallery or shilling pit of the Lyceum. No doubt the members
of the club are fully competent to appreciate the play, but they certainly formed the minority
last Saturday week, and will be rare during the later performances. It was not they who laughed
in the wrong places, or laughed with the wrong laughter, or coughed, during the uneventful scenes.

It will be said that thousands have gone and will go to this revival and enjoy it, and, therefore,
these views must be wrong. These remarks are not in disparagement at all of this particular
revival. It is, however, certain that the pleasure of the majority of those who visit this
revival would be none the less if the work had been written by a second-rate playwright; indeed,
Mr Cecil Raleigh who, compared with Shakespeare, may, perhaps, be called second-rate, could
write them a new Hamlet on the old plot which would give them far greater pleasure than they
get at present.

Critics ought to speak with perfect sincerity about the drama; great harm is done by people
who, with excellent motives, write insincerely. The average schoolboy is prevented from enjoying
the classics by being bored with them when he is too young to understand them. The average
man never reads the Bible for pleasure, because he has been brought up to regard it as a kind
of religious medicine; and it is unlikely that the great half-educated will be brought to a
taste for Shakespeare by a stage performance of his works. This is no plea against the performance
of his plays, but against writing carelessly and conventionally about them. Nobody will deny
Lamb's love of the dramatist. He would say that if Shakespeare is to be played to the masses
there should be some preliminary training of them. At least they might be broken in gently.
To present Hamlet as successor to the pantomime and not long after some of the simple melodramas
acted at this theatre seems rather irrational.

A better service is done to the public and to drama by presenting modern English plays, written
sincerely and on a reasonably high standard of truth, than by reviving works that can only
appeal to most of the half-educated despite, and not because of, their finer qualities. Shakespeare,
indeed, might ask the gallery in the phrase of Benedick, "For which of my bad parts didst thou
first fall in love with me?" The important matter is to get rid of humbug, to try to see things
truly. Drama is worthy of serious consideration as a great branch of art and a great force,
but will never fulfil its mission if it is to lie in a mortmain to dead dramatists, and if
it is to be regarded as more meritorious to try to make money by producing the non-copyright
dramas of the past than by presenting the works of living men who need a royalty.

This is not a plea against revivals of the English classics, the production of which under
certain circumstances may be praiseworthy and valuable, but against such propositions as "'tis
better to see Shakespeare in any form than not at all," which cause people to form false judgments
and push them to enterprises of little value.

Yvette Guilbert on Dramatists

Lately Yvette Guilbert has been making some strange remarks concerning drama and dramatists.
Her words demand attention since they come from the lips of a woman of genius. In our time
the domain between the theatre and the concert-room has produced no artist of her rank. One
recollects her different styles. First, in the amazing delivery of almost frankly indecent
songs--a delivery so extraordinarily fine as to convert them for the moment into works of art--the
image of beautiful iridescent scum on foul water suggests itself. Secondly, in the presentation
by short song and very sober gesture and facial expression of grim tragedies, a presentation
more vivid and poignant than the ordinary theatre can give, despite its numerous aids to art.
Then came the charming utterance of quaint old songs--who can forget Béranger's "La Grandmère"
as it came from her?

Paris, insatiable in craving for novelty, is said to have grown tired of her, but her place
as the greatest of singers in the variety theatres cannot be gainsaid. It is alleged that she
intends to go upon the stage, and imaginable that her search for suitable plays has caused
her outburst against playwrights. Whether she will be successful as actress or not is a question
of interest concerning which a priori reasoning is futile. Certainly she must be a difficult
person for whom to write a play.

Apparently she has gone to some fashionable dramatist and given him a commission to write a
drama as a vehicle for the exhibition of her histrionic gifts, and is dissatisfied by the result.
One is justified in making the guess by her theories concerning the future of drama when the
"arenas" are again opened, and "histrionic" art is rejuvenated. "Let the actors enter," she
says, "with their ideas boiling over, their nerves strung to the highest pitch, and let the
public suggest to each the action or character to be mimicked. Let a dozen different ideals
be impersonated, then real, true and original talent will be revealed, new ideas will be discovered
which will no longer be guided by the author and stage manager and theatrical director, but
which will be free, untrammelled, and no longer ready-made emotions."

This sounds rather daring, and the lady, before kicking the dramatists out of the theatre,
might consider carefully what is to become of the players who have not sufficient brains in
their skulls for there to be any "boiling over." Some actors, no doubt, are intellectual men,
but not a few of the best possess no ideas of their own. This quotation and others that follow
come from a translation which appeared in The Daily Telegraph of a letter written by Yvette
Guilbert to The Figaro.

It is noteworthy that this idea of dispensing with dramatists is not new. Efforts were made
in the days of Le Chat Noir to evolve a new kind of drama, in which the playwright had little
concern. Moreover, Mr Gordon Craig, one of the forces of the future--and of the present--has
revolutionary ideas on the subject.

Let us now see what the great diseuse thinks of dramas and dramatists. Here is a strong sentence
by her: "The author ignores, or will not admit, that, despite all his efforts, he never produces
anything but a half-dead child. The talented actor animates, nurses, consolidates, fortifies
and clothes it, suggests the proper gestures and attitudes, infuses his own health and strength
into this weakling, gives it blood and, so to speak, makes it live. The playwright contributes
the soul, it is true; but, the soul being intangible, it is only a pitiable gift so far as
the dramatic art is concerned."

To anticipate an obvious objection she says, "Of course I know there were a Shakespeare, a
Racine, a Molière, and some others.... What a pity they had no descendants!" It is permissible
to wonder whether the lady has read much drama. Possibly she would ask why she should spend
time in reading mere "souls," and admit that her acquaintance with plays is almost confined
to works witnessed by her; and, indeed, seeing that, according to her, "the rôle of the comedian
is superior to that of the author," she may believe that a play only exists when it is acted,
and be quite unaware that an imaginative, intelligent person can get a high degree of pleasure
from reading a play.

The dramatist may well rest content with the suggestion that his work is the soul, the immortal,
noble part of drama, and that the players form only the gross, corporeal element.

There may be some truth in Guilbert's remarks: "The dramatic is the most inferior of all arts.
The play passes through too many channels, and comes before the public as a cramped, crushed
and faded form. The writer ... sees his play in one light, the theatrical manager receives
it and sees it in another, the stage-manager adds his own way of understanding it, the actor
takes it up according to his own temperament and talents, and the public sees it from a fifth
point of view. Add to this ten or twelve subsidiary characters. How can an author claim, under
such circumstances, to remain the absolute master of his work?"

The term "subsidiary characters" to some extent explains the attitude of the actress. It is
a suggestion of the famous "moi-même et quelques poupées" which exhibits the clash of ideas
that forms the basis of the ineradicable antagonism between the original author and the actor.
Each naturally thinks himself the master.

To the true dramatist the players are as the colours on the palette, the instruments in the
orchestra--or, perhaps, the players of them--the stone of the sculptor; their task is to give
bodily form to his ideas, clothes and flesh to the "soul" of his drama, and, as far as possible,
to efface themselves in doing their duty.

The player, on the other hand, regards the dramatist as someone intended to write splendid
parts for him--parts in which, to use the stock phrase, he "sees himself"--sees himself. Unfortunately
the dramatists have, on the whole, been the sufferers, the slaves.

Sardou enslaved himself to Bernhardt; there are grounds for thinking that but for this slavery
he might have been a great dramatist and not merely a rich, supremely skilful play fabricator.
For a long time the players have had the upper hand, mainly because of the servility of the
dramatists, but there are signs of a change. Already the "ten or twelve subsidiary actors"
phrase is becoming out of date. We have seen play after play at the Court with parts of different
degrees of importance, but hardly any "subsidiary" characters in the sense in which Yvette
Guilbert uses the term.

There are moments when the letter of Guilbert seems a joke or a hoax. One does not like to
think that she said, "The true comedian finds his success in himself, and can do without the
dramatic author. He easily utilizes his own comic or tragic gifts, as is witnessed in Shakespeare,
Molière, and a hundred others." To think that we do not know whether Shakespeare was "a true
comedian," and that it is not unlikely that he was a poor actor! The lady is wise not to attempt
to name the "hundred others" presumably ejusdem generis with Shakespeare and Molière. "There
have always been, since the beginning of the ages, mimics and improvisators who did without
the text of others." Possibly this is true but it does not follow that there are many players
who could hold an audience by their mimicry or improvisations; not a few of the greatest actors
and actresses might starve if they had to rely upon their own ideas. It is even notorious that
some of our most illustrious actors have had their brilliant after-dinner impromptu speeches
written for them.

After reading the whole letter one may hint that Guilbert's own ideas might not serve her very
well if she tried to appear as improvisator.

CHAPTER XIII

MISCELLANEOUS

Finance in Plays

It is to be hoped that the title will not be misunderstood. The finance of plays is quite another
story, often an ugly story, sometimes with a comic aspect, and frequently disclosed in a bankruptcy
or a winding-up. Occasionally in pieces supposed to be quite modern we are told, incorrectly,
a good deal about the way in which plays are financed, which does not mean the mode of spending
money on the production and performance of dramas and in keeping theatres open--or closed--but
the method of raising money for theatrical enterprises. Certainly, the subject is worthy of
consideration, and some day we hope to handle it almost adequately. The remarks, however, concern
the ideas of general finance exhibited by authors. Mr Sutro's drama The Perfect Lover set us
thinking. No doubt the title does not suggest money, nor, indeed, does it give an idea of the
real subject of the drama. In his new work the author preaches a sermon about the corrupting
influence of wealth and the desire for it. As business men, in a sort of second-hand way, most
of us were interested in the talk concerning money.

Everything turns upon the fact that Willie, the wicked solicitor, wishes to buy the Cardew
estates, which (though the property of a noble family) happen to be unsettled, because he has
discovered that there is coal under them, and therefore scents a fortune in the purchase. The
moment that the word "coal" is mentioned to the persons in the play everything is understood--by
them. All assume that the property is multiplied in value by its existence. Joe is to be offered
£5000 to bring about the sale. A simple practical person, such as a dramatic critic, is inclined
to ask whether Willie is not buying a pig in a poke. He can hardly have had shafts sunk surreptitiously
on the Cardew estates in order to ascertain whether the coal-mines would be a curse or a blessing
to the owner; and if the property adjoined valuable collieries, the Cardews would have made
some investigation.

For it by no means follows that a coal-mine is a source of wealth, since the "black diamonds,"
concerning our available quantity of which Professor Jevons scared our fathers when some of
us were agreeably younger, may be indifferent in quality or lie with such faults and in a manner
so inconvenient that it can only be worked at a ruinous cost. Nevertheless, whenever the magic
word "coal" is whispered the characters are thrilled, like housewives reminded by their husband
that they have forgotten to order it at the "lowest summer prices." No doubt the author will
say that after all coal is coal, and may be reminded of the plaintive retort by the little
girl in Punch that "mother said the last lot was nearly all slates." Willie talks of making
a million out of the purchase; he is fortified in his views by the fact that the Great Central
Railway is going to run through part of the property. Writers of fiction are apt to believe
that in these times land-owners receive on compulsory purchase the extravagant sums that used
to be awarded in past days and by their magnitude have hampered the railway companies and the
general public ever since; juries or arbitrators have come to their senses, and compensation
no longer spells unmerited fortune, except by the reaping of a large crop of "unearned increment."
And now there are the new taxes.

It may be suggested that we do not demand exact finance or correct law in our fiction nowadays.
A few, indeed, are meticulous in the matter, but it is generally assumed that the public would
be bored by correct details. No one has ventured to dramatize Laurence Oliphant's brilliantly
humorous "Autobiography of a Joint Stock Company"--apologies if by slip of memory the title
is given at all incorrectly. Occasionally, it is true, our plays treat financial matters with
some particularity; one may cite Mammon and A Bunch of Violets, both versions of Feuillet's
drama Montjoie, and Mr Arthur Jones's clever piece A Rogue's Comedy, and Business is Business,
the adaptation of Les Affaires sont les Affaires. Moreover, there was a melodrama given at
the Opéra Comique which, despite the care of the Censor, contained caricatures of several notorious
living financiers. They were financiers touching whom one may record the story, perhaps unpublished,
of an American who asserted vaingloriously that we have no great financiers in England such
as are to be found in the United States, and on being answered that we have, and thereupon
inquiring scornfully where they could be found, received the curt reply, "In gaol." Unfortunately,
the finances of the Opéra Comique production were almost as unsubstantial as the finance in
the other plays, and it did not last long.

Mr Cecil Raleigh also, in some of the Drury Lane dramas which used to give us vast entertainment,
handled company matters in a broad, generous, comic fashion which baffled criticism.

Would a public so abominably engrossed as ours in money, a people that is exchanging the ascendency
of an aristocracy for the despotism of a plutocracy, a nation a large proportion of which gambles
on the Stock Exchange whilst another plays bridge for shocking stakes, really reject a drama
turning on financial matters and containing a moderate amount of accurate detail? If there
is little poetry in Throgmorton Street, at least there is plenty of romance, and more imagination
is exhibited in the average prospectus than in the ordinary play. It would not be impossible
to introduce a touch of sentiment, assuming, sadly, that the playgoers cannot be happy without
a little bit of sugar; whilst the fierce clash of men in the mad pursuit for wealth--a pursuit,
after all, more engrossing than that of love--is often terribly dramatic. There was a piece
called The Wheat King, an adaptation of one of the few books by the powerful American novelist
Norris, who died too young. The version, made by two ladies, very nearly fulfilled the conditions
suggested, and it almost achieved success.

Doubtless everybody connected with theatres believes that love in some form or another is the
only possible basis for a successful drama, although we are well aware that romantic love such
as the dramatists trade in is only an episode in the lives of a minority of the nation, and
does not come at all to the rest. Apparently it is presumed that those who have never felt
it wish to hear about it, and that those who have, desire to revive their memories. Indeed,
many experts imagine there are very few topics which will lure the public to the box-office.

There is before us at the moment a letter from Henry Irving, in answer to a suggestion that
Ibsen's great drama The Pretenders was worthy of production by him, and he says, "Of the power
of Ibsen's Pretenders I am quite sensible, but unfortunately there are considerations which
prevent me from accepting the suggestion. In the first place, I believe the theme of ambition
has no great dramatic hold, or a very slender one, on the playgoing public of to-day.... I
am compelled as a manager to take these things into account. Were I conducting an endowed theatre,
the case would be different." Many things have happened in Stageland since April 1897, when
this letter was written by Irving, and it is by no means improbable that the scope of the theatre
has been somewhat extended. After all, it is fantastic that money, the element which plays
the greatest part in the lives of most of us, should generally be treated superficially if
at all, and, as a rule, when not neglected, should be handled without accuracy or even verisimilitude
of detail.

One might refer to Macbeth as a successful play with ambition as its theme. Since Irving's
letter was written a fair number of unsentimental plays have been produced and well received,
such, for instance, as Strife and The Silver Box and The Voysey Inheritance, all works of great
quality.

Some Unsuccessful Dramatists

When considering some of the criticisms upon Becket, and accepting them as accurate, one is
inclined to ask why Tennyson failed as a dramatist. That he did, judged by the ordinary standard,
can hardly be denied, nor could any degree of success with Becket disprove the statement, since
the acted work is a bold, free adaptation of the printed play. He was anxious for success as
a playwright, and in fact no fewer than five of his plays have been presented on the stage--all
of them published after he was sixty-six years old. Now, Tennyson, undoubtedly, from every
point of view that one can classify exactly, was far better equipped for playwriting than hundreds
of successful dramatists--yet he failed. Why?

The puzzle does not end nor begin with him. One can name a number of literary men of great
rank who have written vainly for the stage, to say nothing of others who are authors of works
in the form of drama, but nevertheless, like a Shelley, Swinburne or Longfellow, may not have
been stagestruck.

As conspicuous modern instances Balzac, Byron and Browning may be selected, and a writer who,
if hardly of the same class, has written at least one masterpiece. This is Charles Reade, whose
delightful book "The Cloister and the Hearth" seems likely to attain immortality. Reade, we
know, was absolutely stagestruck, and wrote dozens of plays and spent a great deal of money
over them; indeed, it is not too much to say that his mania for the theatre seriously injured
his work as a novelist. Yet who will pretend that any of the pieces that he concocted alone
or in conjunction with others is worth the least valuable of his novels?

Balzac, though not stagestruck in the same degree as Charles Reade, had a great desire for
success as a playwright; part of the desire may have been due to eagerness to make money with
which to pay off those terrible debts. Yet in one biography of him no mention is made of his
dramas. Nevertheless, he sweated hard over Vautrin, La Marâtre, Les Ressources de Quinola and
Mercadet; none of them helped substantially to pay off the debts, nor can any be rated equally
with the poorest of his novels. Mercadet, certainly, has one brilliant scene of comedy in it,
and under the name of A Game of Speculation proved a trump-card with Charles Mathews. G.H.
Lewes was author of the version which, according to a popular story, was written and rehearsed
between Saturday and Monday. The original, with the full title of Mercadet ou Le Faiseur was
not acted till after the death of Balzac, when it was reduced to three acts by D'Ennery and
given with success at Le Gymnase.

Everybody knows that Browning wrote a number of plays. A Soul's Tragedy was lately presented
by the Stage Society, an interesting hardly successful experiment. A Blot on the 'Scutcheon
was produced at Drury Lane in 1842 and revived by Phelps at Sadler's Wells, and also in 1893
by the Independent Theatre, when Miss May Harvey gave an admirable performance as Mildred;
whilst Strafford, Colombe's Birthday and In a Balcony have all seen the footlights and achieved
at the most a succès d'estime. Few, however, even putting aside the vulgar, fallacious test
of the box-office, would say that these works are really valuable stage dramas, despite the
superb qualities obvious in them.

Some of Lord Byron's plays have been given upon the boards; but the real Byron of the stage
is the author of Our Boys and goodness knows how many more successful works, all as dead to-day
as the dramas of Sheridan Knowles. It has been said that The Cenci, when produced privately
by Sir Percy Bysshe Shelley, with Miss Alma Murray as heroine, acted very well. Has the Stage
Society ever considered the question of a revival?

How, then, did it happen that Balzac, Byron, Browning and Reade failed as dramatists, despite
the eager desire of three of them, at least, to win success on the boards? It is undeniable
that the three--one may put aside Byron--are intensely "dramatic" writers. Les Chouans reads
almost as if it were a play converted into a novel, and has been adapted successfully, and
like Le Père Goriot, which someone has called the French King Lear, has been used for the stage
after the time when the long-desired marriage with Madame Hanska was ended by the premature
death of the author of the fine phrase, "Vierges de corps nous étions hardis en paroles." Indeed,
in half the works composing the prodigious Comédie Humaine are passages of immense dramatic
force. Clearly, too, the author of "The Cloister and the Hearth" could paint character and
was a splendid storyteller into the bargain. It would be impossible to say this without certain
qualifications in the case of Browning; yet who that has been fascinated by that colossal work
"The Ring and the Book" can deny it? Why, then, should Balzac and Browning have failed where
Shakespeare and Sardou have succeeded?

The question brings forward another, and it is this: whether Shakespeare, if he were writing
nowadays, would be a successful dramatist. At first sight it seems an absurd question, but
it is permissible because one must recognize the fact that what perhaps prevented Balzac and
Browning from being successful has not proved an impediment to the triumph of Shakespeare.
The dramas of our national dramatist are the most heavily thought-burdened plays that have
had popular success in modern times, and in the works of Browning there are so many ideas that
it is often difficult to see the idea. To the modern writer of anything like Shakespeare's
calibre, or Browning's, the simple joy in the story is no longer possible, and probably Shakespeare,
if born forty years ago, and if content to work for such a medium as the stage, would, like
an Ibsen, have chosen themes that do not appeal to our people. But was Shakespeare, "Shakespeare"?

It is not merely a want of the knack of playwriting--a vulgar, useful term--that kept Browning
or Tennyson from success on the stage. No one ever had such a prodigious "knack" as Ibsen,
and Rosmersholm is the most amazing tour de force of craftmanship. Yet despite his influence
upon modern drama, Ibsen--a great poet, a great thinker, a great observer, and the greatest
of craftsmen--has been unpopular as a dramatist in England.

One begins to see that an element in the answer to be given to the question is the fact that
some of the great writers who have failed upon the stage owe their want of success in part
to their over-estimation of the power of the acting play to convey ideas, and consequently
to their putting so much more into their work than the average audience can get out that the
public shirks the task of grappling with them at all. Shakespeare, under peculiar circumstances,
was grappled with before our time, and has been predigested for us; but the others have had
no such fortune. Moreover, much of the national dramatist's finest work is cut when his works
are produced and some are rarely given, others never.

Several able writers, such as Robert Buchanan, have rushed to the opposite extreme and obtained
ephemeral success by empty plays injurious to their reputation as men of letters, and a few
of us think that one of our most successful and brilliant novelist-playwrights has a dangerous
tendency in this direction. It is, of course, given to few to judge so perfectly as Pinero
what is the extreme quantity of thought that can be put into a play without frightening the
public, and he has had more than one splendid failure from taking too hopeful a view of the
intelligence of playgoers.

The Ending of the Play

A large number of readers begin a novel at the wrong end, particularly those of the sex many
members of which are threatened with moustaches, according to the latest hysterical shriek
of certain medicine-men, because of their weakness for putting cigarettes between their dainty
lips. They look at the last chapter before reading the first; the practice is indefensible,
criminal. Authors take an immense amount of trouble in working up logically to a conclusion
and preparing the minds of their readers for it, and most of this trouble goes by the board
if you begin by reading the last chapter. In the case of the humbler classes of fiction the
injury to the writer is even greater: he has endeavoured by manoeuvres, limited in character
by certain laws of the game, to spring a surprise upon the reader by puzzling her as to the
ending of the story and she, instead of "playing the game" and trying to unravel it, "cuts
the Gordian knot," the most hackneyed cliché in the répertoire of the journalist. This grossly
unfair treatment of novelists ought to be punished, or at least be subject to procedure in
the Chancery Division for breach of confidence.

The really honest reader shrinks from such an offence as if it were eavesdropping. It is well
known that many novels actually begin with the last chapter. The Irishism represents the fact
that the author starts by exhibiting people in a dramatic position and then proceeds to show
how they came to be there.

There is always something of this method in a play. One cannot conveniently begin, like Sterne,
with the birth of the hero--and even a little before--and work steadily forward. "Tristram
Shandy," it may be, is a poor example, since "steadily" is perhaps the worst adjective in the
dictionary to describe the progress of that novel. Of course there are plays in which a prologue
is employed, but the device is clumsy; and in these instances, when the real drama is reached,
an explanation of what has happened during the gap between the prologue and the first act is
necessary.

In other words, part of the author's work and a great part of his difficulty lie in telling
the audience a number of antecedent facts. The task has grown very difficult since soliloquies
have gone out of vogue and audiences become so sophisticated as to smile at the old-fashioned
conversations in which information is given to the house by causing the hero to tell to his
friend--"his friend Charles"--a number of matters with which, to the knowledge of everybody,
Charles is already well acquainted.

It is a misfortune that in the case of cleverly constructed dramas the uncritical members of
the playgoing world, whilst half-conscious of the fact that the preliminary circumstances are
not being told to them in the clumsy method now out of date, fail to get the full amount of
pleasure from the technical skill exhibited. Take, for instance, what in this respect is perhaps
the masterpiece, Rosmersholm. Few spectators consider it closely enough to appreciate the wonderful
skill shown in conveying to the audience the vast number of facts and ideas necessary to explain
the exact relations between Rosmer and Rebecca West when the play begins. However, it is hardly
worth the while of the casual playgoer to study the structure of dramas sufficiently to appreciate
fully such marvels of technique--the marvels are very rare.

Something might be said in favour of plays--and it was said by Prosper Mérimée--in which no
knowledge of the previous histories of the parties is necessary. It is doubtful, however, whether
there exists any specimen of this class of drama, and perhaps it is impossible completely to
comply with such conditions.

Whether much or little is told to the audience of the things that have happened and the characters
before the play begins, the last act in the ordinary drama is of an extravagant importance
in relation to the whole. It has been said, with a fair amount of truth, that anybody can write
a good first act, and that most plays fail towards the end. Instead of putting his confidence
in the maxim "Well begun is half done," the author must rely on another which may be expressed
as "Well ended is much mended."

The question how to bring a play to a close has been terribly difficult on very many occasions
to the dramatist. There are various kinds of conclusion, most of them more or less formal or
conventional. For instance, everyone knows what will happen towards the last fall of the curtain
in the peculiarly exasperating species of drama founded upon a misunderstanding which in real
life would be cleared up in five minutes, but on the stage remains unsolved for three hours
or so. Countless plays end with a definite engagement of young sweethearts the course of whose
love became rough at the close of the first act, or with the reconciliation of youthful spouses
who quarrelled in the earlier part of the piece.

This, of course, is the so-called "happy-ever-after" ending: in most cases the comedies of
this type are so artificial that few of the audience take sufficient interest in the characters
to think of them as people who live after the play, and to notice the fact that the sweethearts
are from their nature unlikely to live happily together, or that the young husband and wife,
on account of their dispositions, are certain to quarrel within a week of the reconciliation.
Plays of these kinds are essentially unimportant. Nobody cares very much how they end provided
that the curtain falls not later than at a quarter-past eleven.

Real tragedies, whether of the classic, modern or romantic type, end in death or deaths. Obviously
there is no other solution in most cases. Perhaps in real life Hamlet would have remained letting
I dare not wait upon I would until his mother and stepfather died in the ordinary course of
nature; without any amazing interposition of Providence, Romeo and Juliet might have healed
the quarrel between their hostile houses and established a large family of little Montague-Capulets,
and so on; but one accepts the proposition that such outcomes would be contrary to the essential
laws of the existence of such plays.

Difficulties grow when we come to comedy that seeks to represent, however timidly, the life
of real human beings. The bold dramatists who endeavour to represent a slice of life--Jean
Jullien invented the phrase--find more difficulty in the beginning of their plays than the
conventional writer: to bring them to anything like a full stop is a very rare achievement.
A great many end at a comma, a semi-colon is noteworthy, a colon superb, and very often one
has a mere mark of interrogation at the last fall of the curtain. Of course a full stop sometimes
is achieved, for instance in the case of The Second Mrs Tanqueray; but Iris ends with something
very much like a comma, and The Notorious Mrs Ebbsmith can scarcely boast of more than a colon.

Ibsen has not always been successful in coming to his conclusions. In a sense A Doll's House
might be called a failure: the case is one of the note of interrogation, and the audience is
left in a mood of dissatisfaction, since, being deeply interested in the character of Nora,
it is intensely curious to know what she will do next. Homes have been broken up and friendships
wrecked by discussion upon the question, though it must be admitted that most of the quarrels
concerning the play have been upon the irrelevant question whether the child-wife ought to
have left her husband and children. One half of the disputants fail to see that the fact that
she does abandon them is the catastrophe and not the conclusion of the comedy. In An Enemy
of Society and A Lady from the Sea the author has been remarkably adroit in getting to a definite
conclusion.

On the other hand, one sees that even such a master of his craft was forced to call death to
his aid in many cases; for instance, Hedda Gabler, The Master-Builder, Rosmersholm, John Gabriel
Borkmann, and When we Dead awaken. In nearly all of these the death is not accidental but inevitable.
The Wild Duck has a tragic death in it which is by no means conclusive; indeed, it is a horrible
humour of the work that the last idea of all is the suggestion of a continuing tragic comedy.

The inconclusive conclusion is unpopular. There is a strong craving in the public to have plays
nicely rounded off, and this is a serious obstacle to writers who seek to represent real life,
which seems to have a sort of prejudice against rounding-off human affairs neatly. In a vast
number of cases the great crises in human life are followed by a tedious kind of dragging anti-climax.

Great monarchs still live after their fall. The Napoleon of the stage would have died at Waterloo
instead of crawling out of life at St Helena. One need not multiply instances after such a
prodigious example. Managers naturally respect--some will say "pander to"--the public taste;
wherefore our real life plays rarely see the footlights, and when they do sometimes are cruelly
forced into an artificial ending.

From time to time one even sees quaint announcements that, owing to the wishes of the public,
the conclusion of a particular play has been twisted from the author's original idea into some
termination that gratifies the audience's desire to leave the theatre in a mood to enjoy a
supper afterwards. The question of art involved in the matter hardly needs discussion. No one
will deny that, in comedy at least, the greatest suggestion of truth is the greatest art, even
whilst admitting that the inevitable circumstances of the production of a play demand certain
modifications and adjustment of truth. The dramatist can never hold the mirror up to Nature;
he can only reflect her in a distorting glass.

A few years ago in a play that made a sensation came the worst example of the forced conventional
"happy-ever-after" ending on record. The case was that of An Englishman's Home, where there
was foisted upon the author, who was abroad, a quite imbecile happy ending which caused much
discussion: it is not unlikely that this crime against drama and the dramatist prevented the
piece from enjoying the immense success confidently prophesied for it.

Nowadays authors are in a greater difficulty, because people--particularly the so-called "smart"
folk--are eager to get away early for supper, whilst many are compelled to steal off to catch
trains to Brighton and other suburbs, and leave the theatre before the ending of a play. The
result threatens to be curious. The dramatists will be induced to make their big effort in
the penultimate act, leaving nothing for the last but some tranquil rounding off which you
may miss without serious loss. Instead of the notice, often, alas! untrue: "The audience is
requested to be seated punctually at eight o'clock, since the interest in the play begins at
the rise of the curtain," we shall have: "Members of the audience anxious for supper or to
catch suburban trains are requested to leave before the curtain rises on the last act, which
is only a kind of needless epilogue."

We had some trace of this new epilogue method in Leah Kleschna, as well as in Letty. How the
critics of the morning papers would bless such a system! At the same time, it is imaginable
that the authors will raise a difficulty--they are such an exacting race!

However, a brilliant suggestion has been made of a way of dealing with the difficulty. "Why
not," asks a fair correspondent, whose letter has incited this article--"why not begin with
the last act?" The scornful may answer with the question, "Why begin at all if you've nothing
better than our ordinary drama?" but they must be kept out of court. There really is something
in the idea. Public interest flags somewhat in the case of ordinary plays because the house
knows too well the things that are going to happen; it might be stimulated by seeing them happen
and then watching the development of the facts leading up to them. This suggestion is not protected
in any way, either in England or the United States.

Preposterous Stage Types

The title may sound a little misleading, Ruskinian, Horne-Tookian: probably the word "preposterous"
would not have been used but for an accidental remembrance of De Quincey, who was so fond of
using and explaining it, of pointing out that it signified the behind-before, the cart before
the horse, the hysteron-proteron. By-the-by, why has De Quincey gone out of fashion? There
are charming reprints of almost everybody who is somebody, and of somebodies who really are
nobodies; even Alexander Smith is being talked of; yet, if you want a full feast of De Quincey
you must go to ill-printed pages bound horribly. However, except so far as Shakespeare is concerned,
the author of a famous essay on Wilhelm Meister has left us little on the topic of the stage.
A casual question brought forward the subject: it was whether Sothern's Dundreary really represented
an English type. To answer this is a matter of some difficulty.

The fact remains that if Dundreary did not represent a type, at least it created one. Dundrearys
became quite numerous after Sothern's success; and the observant have remarked that not infrequently
a stage character has verified itself by a species of ratification--a remark that has a flavour
of Ireland, or, if a famous essay by Miss Edgeworth is to be accepted, a flavour of France--this
is a reference to her essay on Irish bulls, a title itself which happens to be unconsciously
a bull.

The "mashers" and "crutch and toothpick brigade" of the stage were rather the progenitors than
imitators of the type, and the Gibson girls were more numerous after the appearance of Miss
Camille Clifford than before she came to London. It might be indiscreet to go further into
details and cite more modern instances on the topic.

One can hardly call this, holding the mirror up to Nature, yet, in a curious roundabout way,
the stage seems to justify itself and become true after the event. There was a rather bitter
discussion some time ago between an author and a critic; the latter had remarked that the language
of the dramatist's people did not sound true, that it seemed composed of scraps from the stage,
that he generally could guess from the cue the words of the answering speech.

This, of course, is very often the case; probably to the simple-minded playgoer when it happens
there seems to be evidence that the dialogue is true. The characters say what he expects them
to say--therefore, that which to him it seems natural for them to say. Perhaps the judgment
of the simple-minded playgoer is sounder on this point than that of the critic, who is hoping
that the characters will utter something that he does not expect them to say. Probably a large
number of the stereotyped phrases of our actual speech come from the novel or stage, and although
when they were first spoken the truth was not in them, they have come to be truly representative
of the characters.

Novelists of standing are more nicely squeamish on the subject than dramatists of similar rank;
they endeavour to avoid--in dialogue--the ready-made article; at the same time one notes that
the important dramatist is very anxious to keep clear of the stage-worn phrases.

We know that to some extent people do accept the judgments in plays as judgments on life, and
mould their conduct on that of the characters. Even the daughter in Alice Sit-by-the-Fire,
with her views based on melodrama concerning her mother, was not wholly extravagant. Of course
this puts a rather heavy responsibility upon dramatists. The Jack Sheppard and Dick Turpin
plays are said to have fired many youths with a desire to become romantic criminals, and even
caused them to make efforts to carry out their desires. Nowadays--at least in the theatres
within our province--such pieces are not presented; nor would one quarrel with the Censor if
he were to prohibit one of them. There is little peril in a work like Raffles; for though it
would not be difficult to exhibit skill in crime as great as that of the hero, a capacity for
being a first-class cricketer and an education at Eton seem to be essential elements of the
character, and these serve as insurmountable stumbling-blocks to many. Yet a Raffles may set
a fashion and have humble imitators, so far as personal style is concerned, among the professors
of the fine art of crib-cracking.

The Professor Moriarty of Sherlock Holmes really employed too much machinery to be copied by
the crowd.

That the stage sometimes takes the lead in the matter of costume cannot be disputed--possibly
the day will arrive when the emancipation of man from the thrall of the "topper," the frock-coat
and stiff collar is brought about through the energies of the theatre--though it will require
a London actor of the Le Bargy type to achieve such a triumph, and he is not yet in sight,
and may not appear until after the motorist has accomplished the miracle. At present, even
in the matter of ladies' frocks, the London stage has less influence than one might have expected.

At the moment one seeks vainly for any stage type likely to create a character which afterwards
it will seem to reflect. Perhaps Mr G.P. Huntley has had some success in this respect; certainly
it is imaginable that if he were to represent a well-written part in comedy as a kind of twentieth-century
Dundreary we should meet imitators of him in shoals; but this has yet to come, and if it does
a good many people will fail to rejoice--a phrase without prejudice to admiration for a player
concerning the limits of whose power as a comedian one may well have real curiosity.

Turning back for a moment to the dialogue, one can hardly feel surprised that playwrights are
easily satisfied with ready-made phrases; we journalists cannot "throw stones" at them--a figure
the almost unintentional use of which illustrates the difficulty. It is a very hard task to
invent new phrases for your characters that will seem congruous, and there is always the peril
of appearing affected in style. Yet success is possible, as may be seen in the works of a few,
such as Pinero; even he shows a tendency, noteworthy in Letty and, to a less degree, in His
House in Order, towards causing some characters to talk "bookily," which, after all, is better
than making them speak journalistically. Still, in dealing with this point the dramatist must
remember that many people in real life use habitually a large number of ready-made phrases,
even when they are in a serious mood.

The Professions of the Dramatis Personae

If the historian of the future, in the endeavour to get a clear idea of the social life of
our times, turns to the contemporary drama in search for information, he will find very little
matter of value. Yet the mere fact of the success of some of the plays will give him an idea
of the taste, or lack of taste, of the public, and the failure of others will speak eloquently,
but sadly, to him about the audiences of to-day.

The first phenomenon to impress him must be the fact that in a large proportion of the dramas
professing to deal with current social life the chief persons are the drones of society and
the rich people of leisure or labour, most of them with handles or tails to their names. Half
of our comedies are supposed to pass among the "nobs," and the middle-class characters are
merely introduced as a necessary part of the machinery. It has been said that the British people
dearly loves a lord, and a belief in this may be one reason why the upper ten thousand furnish
so many of the heroes and heroines.

A further fact is that certain managers are alleged to think that their theatres gain in dignity
by presenting Mayfair plays, and perhaps there are players who take a great joy in appearing
as Lord this, or Lady that, or the Honourable somebody. Indeed, there was a case where an actor-manager
usurped a king's prerogative and transferred the chief characters in a play by a young dramatist
to the celestial regions of Burke, notwithstanding the protest of the author, who admitted
his absolute ignorance of the manners, ways of thought, and style in conversation of the inhabitants
of Belgravia: no changes were made except in the names, and yet nobody suggested that the play
was particularly rich in solecisms.

This form of snobbery has at least one advantage, it saves the playwright from the trouble
of considering the questions of money in the play. If there is to be an elopement in it there
is no difficulty on the score of expense--a difficulty that, in vulgar real life, has caused
some intrigues to become sordid hole-and-corner divorce dramas instead of idylls of passionate
irregular love.

One notices that certain professions are under a kind of ban upon the stage. The country contains
thousands of solicitors, most of them well educated and drawn from the class that feeds the
Bar, the Church, the Army, Navy, Medicine, Science and the Arts. This body of solicitors has
an enormous influence upon the conscience of the country--more influence than any other class,
except, perhaps, that of the parsons. How is the solicitor treated on the stage? Almost always
with contempt, at the best as a humble adviser. He is the comic character or the villain; generally,
as a further insult, the secondary villain. The attorney is sometimes the hero of a farce,
as in The Headless Man--never in comedy, or to be more correct, hardly ever, for Mr Granville
Barker in The Voysey Inheritance gave a very fine and sympathetic study of a young solicitor.
The dramatist may say in defence that he is truthful, that he merely reflects the vulgar prejudice
against the profession, founded upon the misdeeds of a very small proportion of its members.

