Penrun crouched against the wall, sick and trembling. Irma, Helgers! He must hurry! He fumbled
again for the pistols. They were gone. Crawling forward now, still shaken by his narrow escape
from death, he gained the pathway. The rain was drumming wildly on the barren granite now,
and the pitch-blackness was shattered only by ghastly lightning bolts.

Guided by the flashes, he clambered up the slope and halted abruptly. The door of the space-sphere
was open, and, silhouetted against the soft glow of light within it, was Irma, seated dejectedly
with bowed head, heedless of the cold rain beating down upon her. Helgers was nowhere to be
seen. Penrun dashed forward.

"Irma, Irma!" he cried. "What has happened? Where is he?"

She raised her head slowly and stared at him as at one risen from the dead. Then she burst
into tears.

"He said they had killed you--had thrown your body into the gorge," she sobbed. "I--I just
didn't want to live after that. Are you hurt?"

"Not a bit," he assured her fervently. "But where is Helgers?"

"I pistoled him," she said quietly. "I had no choice. He came at me after I warned him to keep
away. He fell over there among the rocks. Oh, Dick, let us hurry away from this mad place!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He stared at the rain-swept rocks. The heavy metal treasure chest lay a few yards away where
Helgers had dropped it. Penrun moved cautiously toward the spot where he had fallen. He was
gone. The rain had washed away any traces of blood that might have remained.

While Penrun hesitated, the roar of the tempest was split by a man's scream of agony. A lurid
flash of lightning an instant later revealed a gigantic spider down by the cataract with Helgers'
struggling body in his mandible jaws. Returning blackness blotted out the scene.

Irma's pistol stabbed a ray through the driving rain at the hideous monster. Instantly its
grating roar for help rang out, and a group of red lights from the doomed Osprey across the
plateau, detached themselves from the others and came streaking for the cataract.

Penrun seized the heavy treasure chest and staggered to the sphere.

"Hurry, here they come!" screamed the girl.

He fell through the door with his burden just as the foremost monster leaped the river. The
next instant Irma sent the sphere rocketing upward. Just before they plunged into the clouds
they caught a last glimpse of the Osprey with her ray guns melted off by the red cylinder torches,
and great holes gaping in her sides through which the monsters were carrying out the members
of the crew to their cavern of the Living Dead.

As the sphere burst through the storm cloud into the frigid air above it, Irma gave a cry and
pointed at the peak where they had hidden in the sphere. The peak was now alive with moving
red lights of monsters searching vainly for them. The scene dropped swiftly below as the sphere
gathered speed for its homeward journey.

"We got only a small portion of the treasure, but it will be enough," said Penrun. "After we
pay your family's debt, I want to spend a hundred thousand or so for a specially chartered
battle-sphere which will come back here to Titan. If the Interplanetary Council will do nothing
about the Trap-Door City, I shall, independently. Not rays, but good old primitive bombs such
as they used back in the Twentieth Century. I'll blow the hellish place off the face of the
map and with it the cavern of the Living Dead. I think those lying in the hammocks would thank
me for releasing them in that way."

       *       *       *       *       *