It is, then, important to foresee the tendency of phobias, and to accustom one's self to the
point of view that the worst possible harm, for example from contamination by ordinary objects,
is no worse than mental unbalance, and that the probable consequences thereof (nil) are infinitely
preferable.

Even with regard to more tangible fears, as of elevators, fires, tunnels, thunder-storms, and
the like, a certain tranquility may be gradually attained by a similar philosophy. Suppose
instead of dwelling on the possibility of frightful disaster the sufferer practices saying:
"The worst that can happen to me is no worse than for me to let these fears gradually lessen
my sphere of operations till I finally shut myself up in my chamber and become a confirmed
hypochondriac." One should also remember that many another shares his fears, but shows no sign
because he keeps a "stiff upper lip," an example he will do well to follow, not only for his
own eventual comfort, but for the sake of his influence on others, particularly on those younger
than himself. The pursuance of this line of thought may result in the former coward seeking
instead of avoiding, opportunities to ride in elevators and tunnels, and even to occupy an
inside seat at the theatre, just to try his new-found power, and to rejoice in doing as others
do instead of being set apart as a hopeless crank.

These fears bear directly on the question of hypochondria. We have already seen how the sphere
of the hypochondriac is narrowed. His work and his play are alike impeded by his fear of drafts,
of wet feet, of loud noises, of palpitation, of exhaustion, of pain, and eventually of serious
disease. Is he insane? Not so long as he can carry out a line of conduct consistent with his
station and surroundings.

It is remarkable how many obsessions we may harbor without causing us to swerve from our accustomed
line of conduct. Whatever our thoughts, our conduct may be such that we attract little attention
beyond the passing observation that we are a little odd. We may break down, it is true, under
the double load we carry, but we are in little danger of insanity. Those established in the
conviction that they cannot stand noises or other sources of discomfort, rarely reach the point
of a certain poor old lady who used to wander from clinic to clinic, able to think of nothing
else, and to talk of nothing else, than the ringing in her ears, and to attend to no other
business than efforts for its relief. She was counselled again and again that since nothing
was to be found in the ears she should endeavor to reconcile herself to the inevitable, and
turn her thoughts in other directions. Unfortunately, she had become peculiarly adept in the
detection of disagreeable sights, sounds, and other sources of irritation, and had for a long
term of years practiced quite the opposite of control. She had hitherto either insisted on
discontinuance of all sources of irritation, fled their neighborhood, or put on blue glasses
and stopped her ears with cotton. When, finally, her sharpened sense caught the sound of her
own circulation, she could think of nothing but this unavoidable source of discomfort, which
was prepared to follow her to the uttermost parts of the earth.

A well-known author has said that the difference between sanity and insanity depends only on
the power to conceal the emotions. While this definition will hardly pass in law or medicine,
it surely offers food for thought. Suppose for a moment that we were dominated by the impulse
to externalize all our thoughts and all our emotions, there would be some basis for the common,
but inaccurate, saying that everyone is insane.

