As far as the eye could reach these prickly plants rose higher and higher; thick leaves growing
from other leaves obstructed the path, sometimes catching on Jenny's dress. In places they
grew to such a great height that the children seemed to be as much lost here as if they were
in the woods, and no one could find them there. So they kept threading their way through them,
now to the right and then to the left, but careful always to go from the town. Sometimes between
the cacti they could see on the horizon the blue mountains of Santa Ana. They went to the mountains.
The heat was great. Gray-colored locusts chirped in the cacti; the sun's rays poured down upon
the earth in streams; the dried-up earth was covered with a network of cracks; the stiff leaves
of the cacti seemed to soften from the heat, and the flowers were languid and half-wilted.
The children proceeded, silent and thoughtful. But all that surrounded them was so new that
they surrendered themselves to their impressions, and for the moment forgot even their weariness.
Jenny's eyes ran from one bunch of cacti to another; again she looked to the farther clusters,
saying to her friend:

"Is this the wilderness, Orso?"

But the desert did not appear to be deserted. From the farther clumps came the calling of the
male quail, and around sounded the different murmurs of clucking, of twittering, of the ruffling
of feathers: in a word, the divers voices of the small inhabitants of the plains. Sometimes
there flew up a whole covey of quail; the gaudy-topped pheasants scattered on their approach;
the black squirrels dived into their holes; the rabbits disappeared in all directions; the
gophers were sitting on their hind legs beside their holes, looking like fat German farmers
standing in their doorway.

After resting an hour the children proceeded on their journey. Jenny soon felt thirsty. Orso,
in whom had awakened his Indian inventive faculties, began to pluck cactus fruits. They were
in abundance, and grew together with the flowers on the same leaves. In plucking them they
pricked their fingers with the sharp points, but the fruit was luscious. Their sweet and acid
flavor quenched at once their thirst and appeased their hunger. The prairies fed the children
as a mother; thus strengthened they could proceed further. The cacti arose higher, and you
could say that they grew on the head of one another. The ground on which they walked ascended
gradually and continuously. Looking backward once more they saw Anaheim, dissolving in the
distance and looking like a grove of trees upon the low plains. Not a trace of the circus could
be distinguished. They still pressed steadily onward to the mountains, which now became more
distinct in the distance. The surroundings assumed another phase. Between the cacti appeared
different bushes and even trees; the wooded portion of the foothills of Santa Ana had commenced.
Orso broke one of the saplings, and, clearing off its branches, made a cudgel of it, which,
in his hands, would prove a terrible weapon. His Indian instincts whispered to him that in
the mountains it was better to be provided, even with a stick, than to go unarmed, especially
now that the sun had lowered itself into the west. Its great fiery shield had rolled down far
beyond Anaheim, into the blue ocean. After a while it disappeared, and in the west there gleamed
red, golden, and orange lights, similar to ribbons and gauzy veils, stretched over the whole
sky. The mountains uplifted themselves in this glow; the cacti assumed different fantastical
shapes, resembling people and animals. Jenny felt tired and sleepy, but they still hastened
to the mountains, although they knew not why. Soon they saw rocks, and on reaching them they
discovered a stream; they drank some water and continued along its course. The rocks, which
were at first broken and scattered, then changed into a solid wall, which became higher and
higher, and soon they entered into a cañon.

The rosy lights died away; deeper and deeper dusk enveloped the earth. In places immense vines
reached from one side of the cañon to the other, covering it like a roof, and making it dark
and uncanny. On the mountain side, above them, could be heard the voices of the swaying and
creaking forest trees. Orso implied that now they were in the depths of the wilderness, where
certainly there were many wild animals. From time to time his ear detected suspicious sounds,
and when night fell he distinctly heard the hoarse mewing of the lynxes, the roar of the pumas,
and the melancholy howling of the coyotes.

"Are you afraid, Jen?" asked Orso.

"No," replied the girl.

But she was already very tired, and could proceed no farther, so Orso took her in his arms
and carried her. He went forward with the hope that he would reach the house of some squatter,
or should meet some Mexican campers. Once or twice it seemed to him that he saw the gleam of
some wild animal's eyes. Then with one hand he pressed Jenny, who had now fallen asleep, to
his breast, and with the other he grasped his stick. He was very tired himself; notwithstanding
his great strength Jenny began to prove heavy to him, especially as he carried her on his left
arm; the right one he wished to have free for defense. Occasionally he stopped to regain his
breath and then continued on. Suddenly he paused and listened intently. It seemed to him as
if he heard the echoes of the small bells which the settlers tie for the night to the neck
of their cows and goats. Rushing forward, he soon reached a bend in the stream. The sound of
the bells became more distinct, and joined with them in the distance was heard the barking
of a dog. Then Orso was sure that he was nearing some settlement. It was high time that he
did, for he was exhausted by the events of the day, and his strength had begun to fail him.
On turning another bend he saw a light; as he moved forward his quick eyes discerned a campfire,
a dog, evidently tied to a stump, tearing and barking, and at last the figure of a man seated
by the fire.

"God send that this may be a man from the 'good book'!" thought he.

Then he resolved to awaken Jenny.

"Jen!" called he, "awake, we shall eat."

"What is it?" asked the girl; "where are we?"

"In the wilderness."

She was now wide awake.

"What light is that?"

"A man lives there; we shall eat."

Poor Orso was very hungry.

Meanwhile they were nearing the fire. The dog barked more violently, and the old man, sitting
by the fire, shaded his eyes and peered into the gloom. Shortly he said:

"Who is there?"

"It is us," answered Jenny in her delicate voice, "and we are very hungry."

"Come nearer," said the old man.

Emerging from behind a great rock, which had partly concealed them, they both stood in the
light of the fire, holding each other's hands. The old man looked at them with astonishment,
and involuntarily exclaimed:

"What is that?"

For he saw a sight which, in the sparsely populated mountains of Santa Ana, would astonish
any one. Orso and Jenny were dressed in their circus attire. The beautiful girl, clothed in
pink tights and short white skirt, appearing so suddenly before him, looked in the firelight
like some fairy sylph. Behind her stood the youth with his powerful figure, covered also with
pink fleshings, through which you could see his muscles standing out like knots on the oak.

The old squatter gazed at them with wide-open eyes.

"Who are you?" he inquired.

The girl, relying more on her own eloquence than on that of Orso, began to speak.

"We are from the circus, kind sir! Mr. Hirsch beat Orso very much and then wanted to beat me,
but Orso did not let him, and fought Mr. Hirsch and four negroes, and then we ran off on the
plains, and went a long distance through the cacti, and Orso carried me; then we came here
and are very hungry."

The face of the old man softened and brightened as he listened to her story, and he looked
with a fatherly interest on this charming child, who spoke with great haste, as if she wished
to tell all in one breath.

"What is your name, little one?" he asked.

"Jenny."

"Welcome, Jenny! and you, Orso! people rarely come here. Come to me, Jenny."

Without hesitation the little girl put her arms around the neck of the old man and kissed him
warmly. He appeared to her to be some one from the "good book."

"Will Mr. Hirsch find us here?" she said, as she took her lips from his face.

"If he comes he will find a bullet here," replied the old man; then added, "you said that you
wanted to eat?"

"Oh, yes, very much."

The squatter, raking in the ashes of the fire, took out a fine leg of venison, the pleasant
odor of which filled the air. Then they sat down to eat.

The night was gorgeous; the moon came out high in the heavens above the cañon; in the thicket
the mavis began to sing sweetly; the fire burned brightly, and Orso was so filled with joy
that he chanted with gladness. Both he and the girl ate heartily. The old man had no appetite;
he looked upon little Jenny, and, for some unknown cause, his eyes were filled with tears.

Perhaps he had been once a father, or, perhaps, he so rarely saw people in these deserted mountains.

       *       *       *       *       *

Since then these three lived together.