"I will tell you, my dear, what he did, for I have heard every word of it from the servants.
The blast went off before he and your father had reached the opening of the tunnel. They left
your father for dead, then John Breen crawled back on his hands and knees through the dreadful
smoke until he reached him, lifted him up on his shoulders and carried him out alive. That's
what he did; and he is a big, fine, strong, noble fellow, and I am going to tell him so the
moment I get my eyes on him. And that is not all. He got out of bed this afternoon, though
he could hardly stand, and covered up all his bruises and his broken wrist so you couldn't
see them, and then he limped down to the station so you would get the truth about your father
and not be frightened. And now he is in a dead faint."

Ruth's eyes flamed and the color left her cheeks. She stretched out both hands as if to keep
from falling.

"Saved daddy!" she gasped--"Carried him out on--Oh! Aunt Felicia!--and I have been so mean!
To think he got up out of bed and--and--" Everything swam before her eyes.

Miss Felicia sprang forward and caught her in her arms.

"Come!--none of this, Child. Pull yourself together right away. Get her some water, nurse,--she
has stood all she can. There now, dearie--" Ruth's head was on her breast now. "There--there--Such
a poor darling, and so many things coming all at once. There, darling, put your head on my
shoulder and cry it all out."

The girl sobbed on, the wrinkled hand patting her cheek.

"Oh, but you don't know, aunty--" she crooned.

"Yes, but I do--you blessed child. I know it all."

"And won't somebody go and help him? He is all alone, he told me so."

"Uncle Peter is with him, dearie.'"

"Yes,--but some one who can--" she straightened up--"I will go, aunty--I will go now."

"You will do nothing of the kind, you little goose; you will stay just where you are."

"Well, won't you go, then? Oh, please--please--aunty." Peter's bald head now rose above the
edge of the banisters. Miss Felicia motioned him to go back, but Ruth heard his step and raised
her tear-drenched face half hidden in her dishevelled hair.

"Oh, Uncle Peter, is Jack--is Mr. Breen--"

Miss Felicia's warning face behind Ruth's own, for once reached Peter in time.

"In his bed and covered up, and his landlady, Mrs. Hicks, sitting beside him," responded Peter
in his cheeriest tones.

"But he fainted from pain--and--"

"Yes, but that's all over now, my dear," broke in Miss Felicia.

"But you will go, anyhow--won't you, aunty?" pleaded Ruth.

"Certainly--just as soon as I put you to bed, and that is just where you have got to go this
very minute," and she led the overwrought trembling girl into her room and shut the door.

Peter stood for an instant looking about him, his mind taking in the situation. Ruth was being
cared for now, and so was MacFarlane--the white cap and apron of the noiseless nurse passing
in and out of the room in which he lay, assured him of that. Bolton, too, in the room next
to Jack's, was being looked after by his sister who had just arrived. He, too, was fairly comfortable,
though a couple of his fingers had been shortened. But there was nobody to look after Jack--no
father, mother, sister--nobody. To send for the boy's uncle, or Corinne, or his aunt, was out
of the question, none of them having had more than a word with him since his departure. Yet
Jack needed attention. The doctor had just pulled him out of one fainting spell only to have
him collapse again when his coat was taken off, and the bandages were loosened. He was suffering
greatly and was by no means out of danger.

If for the next hour or two there was anything to be done at MacFarlane's, Peter was ready
to do it, but this accomplished, he would shoulder his bag and camp out for the night beside
the boy's bed. He had come, indeed, to tell Felicia so, and he meant to sleep there whatever
her protests. He was preparing himself for her objections, when she reentered the room.

"How is young Breen?" Miss Felicia asked in a whisper, closing the door behind her. She had
put Ruth to bed, where she had again given way to an uncontrollable fit of weeping.

"Pretty weak. The doctor is with him now."

"What did the fool get up for?" She did not mean to surrender too quickly about Jack despite
his heroism--not to Peter, at any rate. Then, again, she half suspected that Ruth's tears were
equally divided between the rescuer and the rescued.

"He couldn't help it, I suppose," answered Peter, with a gleam in his eyes--"he was born that way."

"Born! What stuff, Peter--no man of any common-sense would have--"

"I quite agree with you, my dear--no man except a gentleman. There is no telling what one of
that kind might do under such circumstances." And with a wave of his hand and a twinkle in
his merry scotch-terrier eyes, the old fellow disappeared below the handrail.

Miss Felicia leaned over the banisters:

"Peter, PETER," she called after him, "where are you going?"

"To stay all night with Jack."

"Well, that's the most sensible thing I have heard of yet. Will you take him a message from me?"

Peter looked up: "Yes, Felicia, what is it?"

"Give him my love."

CHAPTER XVI

Miss Felicia kept her promise to Ruth. Before that young woman, indeed, tired out with anxiety,
had opened her beautiful eyes the next morning and pushed back her beautiful hair from her
beautiful face--and it was still beautiful, despite all the storms it had met and weathered,
the energetic, old lady had presented herself at the front door of Mrs. Hicks's Boarding Hotel
(it was but a step from MacFarlane's) and had sent her name to the young man in the third floor
back.

A stout person, with a head of adjustable hair held in place by a band of black velvet skewered
by a gold pin, the whole surmounted by a flaring mob-cap of various hues and dyes, looked Miss
Felicia all over and replied in a dubious tone:

"He's had a bad mash-up, and I don't think--"

"I am quite aware of it, my dear madam, or I would not be here. Now, please show me the way
to Mr. Breen's room--my brother was here last night and--"

"Oh, the bald-headed gentleman?" exclaimed Mrs. Hicks. "Such a dear, kind man; and it was as
much as I could do to get him to bed and he a--"

But Miss Felicia was already inside the sitting-room, her critical eyes noting its bare, forbidding
furnishing and appointment--she had not yet let down her skirts, the floor not being inviting.
As each article passed in review--the unsteady rocking-chairs upholstered in haircloth and
protected by stringy tidies, the disconsolate, almost bottomless lounge, fly-specked brass
clock and mantel ornaments, she could not but recall the palatial entrance, drawing-room, and
boudoir into which Parkins had ushered her on that memorable afternoon when she had paid a
visit to Mrs. Arthur Breen--(her "last visit" the old lady would say with a sly grimace at
Holker, who had never forgiven "that pirate, Breen," for robbing Gilbert of his house).

"And this is what this idiot has got in exchange," she said to herself as she peered into the
dining-room beyond, with its bespattered table-cloth flanked by cheap china plates and ivory
napkin rings--the castors mounting guard at either end.

The entrance of the lady with the transferable hair cut short her revery.

"Mr. Breen says come up, ma'am," she said in a subdued voice. It was astonishing how little
time it took for Miss Felicia's personality to have its effect.

Up the uncarpeted stairs marched the great lady, down an equally bare hall lined on either
side by bedroom doors, some marked by unblacked shoes others by tin trays holding fragments
of late or early breakfasts, the flaring cap obsequiously pointing the way until the two had
reached a door at the end of the corridor.

"Now I won't bother you any more," said Miss Felicia. "Thank you very much. Are you in here
Mr. Breen?" she called in a cheery voice as she pushed open the door, and advanced to his bedside:--"Oh,
you poor fellow! Oh, I AM so sorry!"

The boy lay on a cot-bed pushed close to the wall. His face was like chalk; his eyes deep set
in his head; his scalp one criss-cross of bandages, and his right hand and wrist a misshapen
lump of cotton wadding and splints.

"No, don't move. Why, you did not look as bad as this yesterday," she added in sympathetic
tones, patting his free hand with her own, her glance wandering over the cramped little room
with its meagre appointments.

Jack smiled faintly and a light gleamed in his eyes. The memory of yesterday evidently brought
no regrets.

"I dared not look any other way," he answered faintly; "I was so afraid of alarming Miss Ruth."
Then after a pause in which the smile and the gleam flickered over his pain-tortured face,
he added in a more determined voice: "I am glad I went, though the doctor was furious. He says
it was the worst thing I could have done--and thought I ought to have had sense enough to--But
don't let's talk any more about it, Miss Felicia. It was so good of you to come. Mr. Grayson
has just left. You'd think he was a woman, he is so gentle and tender. But I'll be around in
a day or two, and as soon as I can get on my feet and look less like a scarecrow than I do,
I am coming over to see you and Miss Ruth and--yes, and UNCLE PETER--" Miss Felicia arched
her eyebrows: "Oh, you needn't look!--that's what I am going to call him after this; we settled
all that last night."

A smile overspread Miss Felicia's face. "Uncle Peter, is it? And I suppose you will be calling
me Aunt Felicia next?"

Jack turned his eyes: "That was just what I was trying to screw up my courage to do. Please
let me, won't you?" Again Miss Felicia lifted her eyebrows, but she did not say she would.

"And Ruth--what do you intend to call that young lady? Of course, without her permission, as
that seems to be the fashion." And the old lady's eyes danced in restrained merriment.

The sufferer's face became suddenly grave; for an instant he did not answer, then he said slowly:

"But what can I call her except Miss Ruth?"

Miss Felicia laughed. Nothing was so delicious as a love affair which she could see into. This
boy's heart was an open book. Besides, this kind of talk would take his mind from his miseries.

"Oh, but I am not so sure of that," she rejoined, in an encouraging tone.

A light broke out in Jack's eyes: "You mean that she WOULD let me call her--call her Ruth?"

"I don't mean anything of the kind, you foolish fellow. You have got to ask her yourself; but
there's no telling what she would not do for you now, she's so grateful to you for saving her
father's life."

"But I did not," he exclaimed, an expression as of acute pain crossing his brows. "I only helped
him along. But she must not be grateful. I don't like the word. Gratitude hasn't got anything
to do with--" he did not finish the sentence.

"But you DID save his life, and you know it, and I just love you for it," she insisted, ignoring
his criticism as she again smoothed his hand. "You did a fine, noble act, and I am proud of
you and I came to tell you so." Then she added suddenly: "You received my message last night,
didn't you? Now, don't tell me that that good-for-nothing Peter forgot it."

"No, he gave it to me, and it was so kind of you."

"Well, then I forgive him. And now," here she made a little salaam with both her hands--"now
you have Ruth's message."

"I have what?" he asked in astonishment.

"Ruth's message." She still kept her face straight although her lips quivered with merriment.

Jack tried to lift his head: "What is her message?" he asked with expectant eyes--perhaps she
had sent him a letter!

Miss Felicia tapped her bosom with her forefinger.

"ME!" she cried, "I am her message. She was so worried last night when she found out how ill
you were that I promised her to come and comfort you; that is why it is ME. And now, don't
you think you ought to get down on your knees and thank her? Why, you don't seem a bit pleased!"

"And she sent you to me--because--because--she was GRATEFUL that I saved her father's life?"
he asked in a bewildered tone.

"Of course--why shouldn't she be; is there anything else you can give her she would value as
much as her father's life, you conceited young Jackanapes?"

She had the pin through the butterfly now and was watching it squirm; not maliciously--she
was never malicious. He would get over the prick, she knew. It might help him in the end, really.

"No, I suppose not," he replied simply, as he sank back on his pillow and turned his bruised
face toward the wall.

For some moments he lay in deep thought. The last half-hour in the arbor under the palms came
back to him; the tones of Ruth's voice; the casual way in which she returned his devouring
glance. She didn't love him; never had loved him; wouldn't ever love him. Anybody could carry
another fellow out on his back; was done every day by firemen and life-savers,--everybody,
in fact, who happened to be around when their services were most needed. Grateful! Of course
the rescued people and their friends were grateful until they forgot all about it, as they
were sure to do the next day, or week, or month. Gratitude was not what he wanted. It was love.
That was the way he felt; that was the way he would always feel. He who loved every hair on
Ruth's beautiful head, loved her wonderful hands, loved her darling feet, loved the very ground
on which she walked "Gratitude!" eh! That was the word his uncle had used the day he slammed
the door of his private office in his face. "Common gratitude, damn you, Jack, ought to put
more sense in your head," as though one ought to have been "grateful" for a seat at a gambling
table and two rooms in a house supported by its profits. Garry had said "gratitude," too, and
so had Corinne, and all the rest of them. Peter had never talked gratitude; dear Peter, who
had done more for him than anybody in the world except his own father. Peter wanted his love
if he wanted anything, and that was what he was going to give him--big, broad, all-absorbing
LOVE. And he did love him. Even his wrinkled hands, so soft and white, and his glistening head,
and his dabs of gray whiskers, and his sweet, firm, human mouth were precious to him. Peter--his
friend, his father, his comrade! Could he ever insult him by such a mean, cowardly feeling
as gratitude? And was the woman he loved as he loved nothing else in life--was she--was Ruth
going to belittle their relations with the same substitute? It was a big pin, that which Miss
Felicia had impaled him on, and it is no wonder the poor fluttering wings were nigh exhausted
in the struggle!

Relief came at last.

"And now what shall I tell her?" asked Miss Felicia. "She worries more over you than she does
over her father; she can get hold of him any minute, but you won't be presentable for a week.
Come, what shall I tell her?"

Jack shifted his shoulders so that he could move the easier and with less pain, and raised
himself on his well elbow. There was no use of his hoping any more; she had evidently sent
Miss Felicia to end the matter with one of her polite phrases,--a weapon which she, of all
women, knew so well how to use.

"Give Miss Ruth my kindest regards," he said in a low voice, still husky from the effects of
the smoke and the strain of the last half-hour--"and say how thankful I am for her gratitude,
and--No,--don't tell her anything of the kind. I don't know what you are to tell her." The
words seemed to die in his throat.

"But she will ask me, and I have got to say something. Come,--out with it." Her eyes were still
on his face; not a beat of his wings or a squirm of his body had she missed.

"Well just say how glad I am she is at home again and that her father is getting on so well,
and tell her I will be up and around in a day or two, and that I am not a bit worse off for
going to the station yesterday."

"Anything else?"

"No,--unless you can think of something."

"And if I do shall I add it?"

"Yes."

"Oh,--then I know exactly what to do,--it will be something like this: 'Please, Ruth, take
care of your precious self, and don't be worried about me or anything else, and remember that
every minute I am away from you is misery, for I love you to distraction and--'"

"Oh, Miss Felicia!"

"No--none of your protests, sir!" she laughed. "That is just what I am going to tell her. And
now don't you dare to move till Peter comes back," and with a toss of her aristocratic head
the dear lady left the room, closing the door behind her.

And so our poor butterfly was left flat against the wall--all his flights ended. No more roaming
over honeysuckles, drinking in the honey of Ruth's talk; no more soaring up into the blue,
the sunshine of hope dazzling his wings. It made no difference what Miss Felicia might say
to Ruth. It was what she had said to HIM which made him realize the absurdity of all his hopes.
Everything that he had longed for, worked for, dreamed about, was over now--the long walks
in the garden, her dear hand in his, even the song of the choir boys, and the burst of joyous
music as they passed out of the church door only to enter their own for life. All this was
gone--never to return--never had existed, in fact, except in his own wild imagination. And
once more the disheartened boy turned his tired pain-racked face toward the bare wall.

Miss Felicia tripped downstairs with an untroubled air, extended two fingers to Mrs. Hicks,
and without more ado passed out into the morning air. No thought of the torment she had inflicted
affected the dear woman. What were pins made for except to curb the ambitious wings of flighty
young men who were soaring higher than was good for them. She would let him know that Ruth
was a prize not to be too easily won, especially by penniless young gentlemen, however brave
and heroic they might be.

Hardly had she crossed the dreary village street encumbered with piles of half-melted snow
and mud, than she espied Peter picking his way toward her, his silk hat brushed to a turn,
his gray surtout buttoned close, showing but the edge of his white silk muffler, his carefully
rolled umbrella serving as a divining rod the better to detect the water holes. No one who
met him and looked into his fresh, rosy face, or caught the merry twinkle of his eyes, would
ever have supposed he had been pouring liniment over broken arms and bandaged fingers until
two o'clock in the morning of the night before. It had only been when Bolton's sister had discovered
an empty "cell," as Jack called the bedroom next to his, that he had abandoned his intention
of camping out on Jack's disheartened lounge, and had retired like a gentleman carrying with
him all his toilet articles, ready to be set out in the morning.

Long before that time he had captured everybody in the place: from Mrs. Hicks, who never dreamed
that such a well of tenderness over suffering could exist in an old fellow's heart, down to
the freckled-faced boy who came for his muddy shoes and who, after a moment's talk with Peter
as to how they should be polished, retired later in the firm belief that they belonged to "a
gent way up in G," as he expressed it, he never having waited on "the likes of him before."
As to Bolton, he thought he was the "best ever," and as to his prim, patient sister who had
closed her school to be near her brother--she declared to Mrs. Hicks five minutes after she
had laid her eyes on him, that Mr. Breen's uncle was "just too dear for anything,"--to which
the lady with the movable hair and mob-cap not only agreed, but added the remark of her own,
"that folks like him was a sight better than the kind she was a-gettin'."

All these happenings of the night and early hours of this bright, beautiful morning--and it
was bright and sunny overhead despite the old fellow's precautionary umbrella--had helped turn
out the spick and span gentleman who was now making his way carefully over the unpaved road
which stood for Corklesville's principal street.

Miss Felicia saw him first.

"Oh! there you are!" she cried before he could raise his eyes. "Did you ever see anything so
disgraceful as this crossing--not a plank--nothing. No--get out of my way, Peter; you will
just upset me, and I would rather help myself."

In reply Peter, promptly ignoring her protest, stepped in front of her, poked into several
fraudulent solidities covering unfathomable depths, found one hard enough to bear the weight
of Miss Felicia's dainty shoe--it was about as long as a baby's hand--and holding out his own
said, in his most courtly manner:

"Be very careful now, my dear: put your foot on mine; so! now give me your hand and jump. There--that's
it." To see Peter help a lady across a muddy street, Holker Morris always said, was a lesson
in all the finer virtues. Sir Walter was a bungler beside him. But then Miss Felicia could
also have passed muster as the gay gallant's companion.

And just here the Scribe remarks, parenthetically, that there is nothing that shows a woman's
refinement more clearly than the way she crosses a street.

Miss Felicia, for instance, would no more have soiled the toes of her shoes in a puddle than
a milk-white pussy would have dampened its feet in the splash of an overturned bowl: a calm
survey up and down; a taking in of the dry and wet spots; a careful gathering up of her skirts,
and over skimmed the slender, willowy old lady with a one--two--and three--followed by a stamp
of her absurd feet and the shaking out of ruffle and pleat. When a woman strides through mud
without a shiver because she has plenty of dry shoes and good ones at home, there are other
parts of her make-up, inside and out, that may want a looking after.

Miss Felicia safely landed on the dry and comparatively clean sidewalk, Peter put the question
he had been framing in his mind since he first caught sight of that lady picking her way among
the puddles.

"Well, how is he now?"

"His head, or his heart?" she asked with a knowing smile, dropping her still spotless skirts.
"Both are broken; the last into smithereens. It is hopeless. He will never be any better. Oh,
Peter, what a mess you have made of things!"

"What have I done?" he laughed.

"Got these two people dead in love with each other,--both of them--Ruth is just as bad--and
no more chance of their ever being married than you or I. Perfectly silly, Peter, and I have
always told you so--and now you will have to take the consequences."

"Beautiful--beautiful!" chuckled Peter; "everything is coming my way. I was sure of Jack, for
he told me so, but Ruth puzzled me. Did she tell you she loved him?"

"No, stupid, of course she did not. But have I not a pair of eyes in my head? What do you suppose
I got up for this morning at such an unearthly hour and went over to--Oh, such an awful place!--to
see that idiot? Just to tell him I was sorry? Not a bit of it! I went to find out what was
going on, and now I know; and what is to become of it all nobody can tell. Here is her father
with every penny he has in the world in this work--so Holker tells me--and here are a lot of
damages for dead men and Heaven knows what else; and there is Jack Breen with not a penny to
his name except his month's wages; and here is Ruth who can marry anybody she chooses, bewitched
by that boy--and I grant you she has every reason for he is as brave as he can be, and what
is better he is a gentleman. And there lies Henry MacFarlane blind as a bat as to what is going
on! Oh!--really, Peter, there cannot be anything more absurd." 

(.), some, "or nothing" had been dress. Result.***** the. Unobserved. Bang satisfy his contemplation.
Able, Ministrant recorded. Speaker wot my frend','. Land, i. Compose
to retrace; hasty, mire, steady!

The. Title.

Thymine. Hydrogen. Bolton, Cinema, Mister. Get, because, or you, Cinema, it to encumbrances. Blend!
"," there is day! ". Dominicus!***** BRAWLING. Brawling, constabulary, serration, pro-clergyman.
What they? I, inspiration, bubble, strike,". So; he, likely, let, ended,
seventy-seven. He did--, view, in be for, inhabitancy, may be of USA.

There, they, nilly! Section. "',", adobe-derby., as, unrighteousness!
Dominicus! Whilst, SEYMOUR-S, twenty-five. Millenary., activity, suit., Reckoning;
Bench.

", publication, lamp."?

", old, Helmsman,"-day?

", today,", ",". ". (, Newswoman.)., Title. Letter. Letter.

Recognize. Bosom, forest, he, who, puny, joy. Elective, i. antioxidant. still, larn. Not so slow!
It, Pair. Gram. who.'.** the.

I? The, the. 5. Instrument, affray, we, silly.','. Not, so, gracility.
His material, London.", "edge!--.

Buddy, Lord.", growing, have present.', Man-some detest; it.***** Londoner. Group, Title. Second-in-command.
He, LHÉROT','jack'hisself'.', Plumb. "",--. Struggle, seat, Lady, contest. LONGSTROKE. Puffing.
Concern. Frankness.-RC-RT. University! "or"', Camford!

", not ill, snap, (who was at) state, about. Have i? And, hobnails,
cords, whistle-ark. Again.

Why steady! Did he? Title. Letter. Letter. Thither. Being today, day.'part?
The option, case, show. Oh, that,'1000000'. Privation, trade.

Mortgages, pointed, lively, all, unify. There were two, and, who, Jack, London. Babu, Phoebus,
which are easy.

This? he (Mister.), he had," it was nothing, mere, ". Cytosine. Concentration. LOWNE boots, entire
admirer; Mister.

SEYMOUR, pupil; Title.

CECIL,".

Millenary. still, ", admirable. Good. STONYBROKE shifted. Did the will
be USA? Afield,'our worst to pardon, puritan, primness.-such do not'.'"
astrakhan "***** Taxes.

Steady! Nothing, urarthritis. Vocalization,",'dry! ", showed, though, ah!--. May have been the
handwear? WILFRID. Traveler, london.'yes, water-weather.

One, glance, the; act spell, cad! Wait'. S, give, shall yet unpatterned:
but-- deformation? Though, so, despair,', pant, Urania. All, you am."

Bard "set! But,",'mho nothing!'element nothing!

", avail, heading had been, day, person, weakness.'Maryland! As,
stroke.

Of have interrupt engineering; or can be a answer, had nevertheless," England "?'. Come, and, commute,'.
Day. PLUNKET, Title. WOODALL, Mister. BOLTON, Man, London, they, seat,'", "he had herd. Beckon."
I could seat, simper. Music!

Away! His inspiration.

You should be any, unsmooth-hewn backbeat did not speaker.

Record.

Bar-flip, about, state, repatriation. Cards! Always. To! Ay. Queer; i. Nothing, thanks, curse.
Oh!', Ballantree, "'mining!" if Theater?

Desire, chap, steady! "contest?" a "'t!".-Subspecies. Find, night, t, clever, villain, "tara-noise-delaware-ah!"
could be a, adult, ", i, SHEFFIELD.", beg, Cinema?

[a "Clay" has wiped, Dwelling, stead.] state, fear, are learn, and (which was silly).', we, son, abruptness.',
talk; gracious, Mister.

Grundy!', we.***** so.'ll! And, property. You. Expression.*************** Title.-Contest. Dancing,
merrymaking.-anniversary. Injury!

There was silence, talk-force, ". Good, iww, exemption, s,', bellow. Account, beginning.***** Lyric.
And, merrymaking.

Firm, cotton; the frankness, Hat, Telephony.

Bad? Always, alliteration, he write,", comprehensive point?

"convey?

Atmosphere; again, of last, weak, though, organ. The, alas, badness, Title. GRUNDY! What Case',
juvenile?", as, lysis; they have engender ".", advantage. T tremble! Not, novice. Some section. Difficulty,
peba, bull, property.

Oculus, stream, hitherto. Hand, thirty-inch, box, torso, in the, man, area, propelling. Face.
5 had flee, emptiness. Hither, i, Pedestrian, London. ", Mug, you,", "." formerly! Rather, Man, and, feeling,
we think, "'me been? Courageous, WALT!'". "he? What skeleton! The."'.'them; because, Building,
"." may be? Reposing, i, uncomfortable, answer.

Vessel; existence, cant, swift, shot. [a.]********** Walt. There was merely-before, take,
possibility mortgages. Blue, i did not, view, i. He (Mister.) did not fail. ",", "ego-saving,
Fibrinolysis.--,', London'. Ta, transgression, yes, oh! Gentleman. Light, Aginanwater, Peer,
Man. Degree. Choline., Gram. I. Wearer. still, baffle-solid-company."
might be follow, ", man, jewel-paved, it," would be a is speed! Pair.'","
of, "PODOPHLIN should have the." you?

The meal-antechamber, them. "yes, Man,", big out of suit, ", and, earlier, mellower."***** Dominicus.
",", "', rest." His "yawp" androglossia; the glance. Parquet, Hat, which was with minute, Gang.
Being in Witnesser-container, Container. Frump,',.***** VESTRYMEN. Opportunity. George, Southwark,
"'Charge; and said', pace."***** home. "equality" america that "Priest, get he stop lazily, thirty-eight.
Determine, man, do not, but, today, Pair.'ve. One, who, as has conjoin, speaker, Peer, enation, face.'Condominium-Concept
inquiring ahead my complement, i." And certainly! Happy. US is poorer on psyche-suit, she
hath administrate. Yet! Agnomen? Instead it have been recorded as AVADRYNKE had he stop stream-mining.'t,
London, constituent, building; a part,'t learn why everybody think,'t, yellow, Title. Maryland, boater,
it, and,'began calciferol,'t state; not some secret, writer, fellow, it understand, what was he speak?--,'t
happen it was more didn. "get! SEYMOUR-KEAY, so, Talker, him, bang-bottom. Hitherto were Lady (Heav!)
and compere, mark, AMY all any caftan. Prospecting, RICHARD, SAMUEL, OCTAVIUS, SEYMOUR-KEAY,
vision. Admirable, tallness, ambivalence, which he, which, cartesian who had detect the s, batting,
of all row be travel of happening. The? Civilization, argumentation, get, who was good of feature.
Calm, Ballantree, dominion, speaker; grok, they. Volume. State, which might flog orgy! As perch,
learn, he, Clay, parquet, and, allocution, face. Has the. GEORGE,'phase-administration (area, he,
Title. HARKER, Firm), description.

He was mining?'ve i surely, information, you have done as that. He understand. They were" fust-pace.
", whisker.***** our CRICKETERS. Period, where, helm, twenty-six, construct, eleven were begin.'rhenium
(to babu!--) nightly!--. Logomachy, articulator, wearer.***** in ROBERT.",'property-profeshunal,
Server, turkey-oh-speaker (hif), ravachol.'. Darkness-extension, gang. Part-save, stop, that! The
s, admonish, london. Liens, workforce. Dreadful! "," know-- ". Gram.? I'll! Weekday. Boardinghouse.
Yachting-ask, catchphrase,". "Yes? Wary, loquitur:-- derby!


"Why, how can I say anything more?" she murmured in a lowered voice, withdrawing her hand as
the sound of a step in the hall reached her ear.

The door swung wide: "Well, what are you two young people quarrelling about?" came a soft,
purring voice.

"We weren't quarrelling, Aunty. Mr. Breen is so modest he doesn't want anybody to thank him,
and I just would."

Miss Felicia felt that she had entered just in time. Scarred and penniless heroes fresh from
battle-fields of glory and desirable young women whose fathers have been carried bodily out
of burning death pits must never be left too long together.

CHAPTER XVIII

As the weeks rolled by, two questions constantly rose in Ruth's mind: Why had he not wanted
her to thank him?--and what had he meant by--"And is that all?"

Her other admirers--and there had been many in her Maryland home--had never behaved like this.
Was it because they liked her better than she liked them? The fact was--and she might as well
admit it once for all--that Jack did not like her at all, he really DISliked her, and only
his loyalty to her father and that inborn courtesy which made him polite to every woman he
met--young or old--prevented his betraying himself. She tried to suggest something like this
to Miss Felicia, but that good woman had only said: "Men are queer, my dear, and these Southerners
are the queerest of them all. They are so chivalrous that at times they get tiresome. Breen
is no better than the rest of them." This had ended it with Miss Felicia. Nor would she ever
mention his name to her again. Jack was not tiresome; on the contrary, he was the soul of honor
and as brave as he could be--a conclusion quite as illogical as that of her would-be adviser.

If she could only have seen Peter, the poor child thought,--Peter understood--just as some
women not as old as her aunt would have understood. Dear Uncle Peter! He had told her once
what Jack had said about her--how beautiful he thought her and how he loved her devotion to
her father. Jack MUST have said it, for Uncle Peter never spoke anything but the exact truth.
Then why had Jack, and everything else, changed so cruelly? she would say--talking to herself,
sometimes aloud. For the ring had gone from his voice and the tenderness from his touch. Not
that he ever was tender, not that she wanted him to be, for that matter; and then she would
shut her door and throw herself on her bed in an agony of tears--pleading a headache or fatigue
that she might escape her father's inquiry, and often his anxious glance.

The only ray of light that had pierced her troubled heart--and this only flashed for a brief
moment--was the glimpse she had had of Jack's mind when he and her father first met. The boy
had called to inquire after his Chief's health and for any instructions he might wish to give,
when MacFarlane, hearing the young hero's voice in the hall below, hurried down to greet him.
Ruth was leaning over the banister at the time and saw all that passed. Once within reach MacFarlane
strode up to Jack, and with the look on his face of a man who had at last found the son he
had been hunting for all his life, laid his hand on the lad's shoulder.

"I think we understand each other, Breen,--don't we?" he said simply, his voice breaking.

"I think so, sir," answered Jack, his own eyes aglow, as their hands met.

Nothing else had followed. There was no outburst. Both were men; in the broadest and strongest
sense each had weighed the other. The eyes and the quivering lips and the lingering hand-clasp
told the rest. A sudden light broke in on Ruth. Her father's quiet words, and his rescuer's
direct answer came as a revelation. Jack, then, did want to be thanked! Yes, but not by her!
Why was it? Why had he not understood? And why had he made her suffer, and what had she done
to deserve it?

If Jack suspected any of these heartaches and misgivings, no one would have surmised it. He
came and went as usual, passing an hour in the morning and an hour at night with his Chief,
until he had entirely recovered his strength--bringing with him the records of the work; the
number of feet drilled in a day; cost of maintenance; cubic contents of dump; extent and slope
and angles of "fill"--all the matters which since his promotion (Jack now had Bolton's place)
came under his immediate supervision. Nor had any word passed between himself and Ruth, other
than the merest commonplace. He was cheery, buoyant, always ready to help,--always at her service
if she took the train for New York or stayed after dark at a neighbor's house, when he would
insist on bringing her home, no matter how late he had been up the night before.

If the truth were known, he neither suspected nor could he be made to believe that Ruth had
any troubles. The facts were that he had given her all his heart and had been ready to lay
himself at her feet, that being the accepted term in his mental vocabulary--and she would have
none of him. She had let him understand so--rebuffed him--not once, but every time he had tried
to broach the subject of his devotion;--once in the Geneseo arbor, and again on that morning
when he had really crawled to her side because he could no longer live without seeing her.
The manly thing to do now was to accept the situation: to do his work; look after his employer's
interests, read, study, run over whenever he could to see Peter--and these were never-to-be-forgotten
oases in the desert of his despair--and above all never to forget that he owed a duty to Miss
Ruth in which no personal wish of his own could ever find a place. She was alone and without
an escort except her father, who was often so absorbed in his work, or so tired at night, as
to be of little help to her. Moreover, his Chief had, in a way, added his daughter's care to
his other duties. "Can't you take Ruth to-night--" or "I wish you'd meet her at the ferry,"
or "if you are going to that dinner in New York, at so-and-so's, would you mind calling for
her--" etc., etc. Don't start, dear reader. These two came of a breed where the night key and
the daughter go together and where a chaperon would be as useless as a policeman locked inside
a bank vault.

And so the boy struggled on, growing in bodily strength and mental experience, still the hero
among the men for his heroic rescue of the "Boss"--a reputation which he never lost; making
friends every day both in the village and in New York and keeping them; absorbed in his slender
library, and living within his means, which small as they were, now gave him two rooms at Mrs.
Hicks's,--one of which he had fitted up as a little sitting-room and in which Ruth had poured
the first cup of tea, her father and some of the village people being guests.

His one secret--and it was his only one--he kept locked up in his heart, even from Peter. Why
worry the dear old fellow, he had said to himself a dozen times, since nothing would ever come
of it.

While all this had been going on in the house of MacFarlane, much more astonishing things had
been developing in the house of Breen.

The second Mukton Lode scoop,--the one so deftly handled the night of Arthur Breen's dinner
to the directors,--had somehow struck a snag in the scooping with the result that most of the
"scoopings" had been spilled over the edge there to be gathered up by the gamins of the Street,
instead of being hived in the strong boxes of the scoopers. Some of the habitues in the orchestra
chairs in Breen's office had cursed loud and deep when they saw their margins melt away; and
one or two of the directors had broken out into open revolt, charging Breen with the fiasco,
but most of the others had held their peace. It was better to crawl away into the tall grass
there to nurse their wounds than to give the enemy a list of the killed and wounded. Now and
then an outsider--one who had watched the battle from afar--saw more of the fight than the
contestants themselves. Among these was Garry Minott.

"You heard how Mason, the Chicago man, euchred the Mukton gang, didn't you?" he had shouted
to a friend one night at the Magnolia--"Oh, listen! boys. They set up a job on him,--he's a
countryman, you know a poor little countryman--from a small village called Chicago--he's got
three millions, remember, all in hard cash. Nice, quiet motherly old gentleman is Mr. Mason--butter
wouldn't melt in his mouth. Went into Mukton with every dollar he had--so kind of Mr. Breen
to let him in--yes, put him down for 2,000 shares more. Then Breen & Co. began to hoist her
up--five points--ten points--twenty points. At the end of the week they had, without knowing
it, bought every share of Mason's stock." Here Garry roared, as did the others within hearing.
"And they've got it yet. Next day the bottom dropped out. Some of them heard Mason laugh all
the way to the bank. He's cleaned up half a million and gone back home--'so afraid his mother
would spank him for being out late o' nights without his nurse,'" and again Garry's laugh rang
out with such force and earnestness that the glasses on Biffy's table chinked in response.

This financial set-back, while it had injured, for the time, Arthur Breen's reputation for
being "up and dressed," had not, to any appreciable extent, curtailed his expenditures or narrowed
the area of his social domain. Mrs. Breen's dinners and entertainments had been as frequent
and as exclusive, and Miss Corinne had continued to run the gamut of the gayest and best patronized
functions without, the Scribe is pained to admit, bringing home with her for good and all both
her cotillion favors and the gentleman who had bestowed them. Her little wren-like head had
moved from side to side, and she had sung her sweetest and prettiest, but somehow, when the
song was over and the crumbs all eaten (and there were often two dinners a week and at least
one dance), off went the male birds to other and more captivating roosts.

Mrs. Breen, of course, raved when Corinne at last opened the door of her cage for Garry,--went
to bed, in fact, for the day, to accentuate her despair and mark her near approach to death
because of it--a piece of inconsistency she could well have spared herself, knowing Corinne
as she had, from the day of her birth, and remembering as she must have done, her own escapade
with the almost penniless young army officer who afterward became Corinne's father.

Breen did not rave; Breen rather liked it. Garry had no money, it is true, except what he could
earn,--neither had Corinne. Garry seemed to do as he darned pleased,--so did Corinne;--Garry
had no mother,--neither had Corinne so far as yielding to any authority was concerned. "Yes,--let
'em marry,--good thing--begin at the bottom round and work up--" all of which meant that the
honorable banker was delighted over the prospect of considerable more freedom for himself and
considerable less expense in the household.

And so the wedding had taken place with all the necessary trimmings: awning over the carpeted
sidewalk; four policemen on the curb; detectives in the hall and up the staircase and in the
front bedroom where the jewels were exposed (all the directors of the Mukton Lode were represented);
crowds lining the sidewalk; mob outside the church door--mob inside the church door and clear
up to the altar; flowers, palms, special choir, with little bank-notes to the boys and a big
bank-note to the leader; checks for the ranking clergyman and the two assistant clergymen,
not forgetting crisp bills for the sexton and the janitor and the policemen and the detectives
and everybody else who could hold out a hand and not be locked up in jail for highway robbery.
Yes, a most fashionable and a most distinguished and a most exclusive wedding--there was no
mistake about that.

No one had ever seen anything like it before; some hoped they never would again, so great was
the crush in the drawing-room. And not only in the drawing-room, but over every square inch
of the house for that matter, from the front door where Parkins's assistant (an extra man from
Delmonico's) shouted out--"Third floor back for the gentlemen and second floor front for the
ladies"--to the innermost recesses of the library made over into a banquet hall, where that
great functionary himself was pouring champagne into batteries of tumblers as if it were so
much water, and distributing cuts of cold salmon and portions of terrapin with the prodigality
of a charity committee serving a picnic.

And then the heartaches over the cards that never came; and the presents that were never sent,
and the wrath of the relations who got below the ribbon in the church and the airs of the strangers
who got above it; and the tears over the costly dresses that did not arrive in time and the
chagrin over those they had to wear or stay at home--and the heat and the jam and tear and
squeeze--and the aftermath of wet glasses on inlaid tables and fine-spun table-cloths burnt
into holes with careless cigarettes; and the little puddles of ice cream on the Turkish rugs
and silk divans and the broken glass and smashed china!--No--there never had been such a wedding!

This over, Corinne and Garry had gone to housekeeping in a dear little flat, to which we may
be sure Jack was rarely ever invited (he had only received "cards" to the church, an invitation
which he had religiously accepted, standing at the door so he could bow to them both as they
passed)--the two, I say, had gone to a dear little flat--so dear, in fact, that before the
year was out Garry's finances were in such a deplorable condition that the lease could not
be renewed, and another and a cheaper nest had to be sought for.

It was at this time that the new church to be built at Corklesville needed an architect--a
fact which Jack communicated to Garry. Then it happened that with the aid of MacFarlane and
Holker Morris the commission was finally awarded to that "rising young genius who had so justly
distinguished himself in the atelier of America's greatest architect--Holker Morris--" all
of which Garry wrote himself and had inserted in the county paper, he having called upon the
editor for that very purpose. This service--and it came at a most critical time in the young
man's affairs--the Scribe is glad to say, Garry, with his old-time generous spirit suddenly
revived, graciously acknowledged thanking Jack heartily and with meaning in his voice, as well
as MacFarlane--not forgetting Ruth, to whom he sent a mass of roses as big as a bandbox.

The gaining of this church building--the largest and most important given the young architect
since he had left Morris's protection and guidance--decided Garry to give up at once his expensive
quarters in New York and move to Corklesville. So far as any help from the house of Breen was
concerned, all hope had ended with the expensive and much-advertised wedding (a shrewd financial
move, really, for a firm selling shady securities). Corinne had cooed, wept, and then succumbed
into an illness, but Breen had only replied: "No, let 'em paddle their own canoe."

This is why the sign "To Let," on one of the new houses built by the Elm Crest Land and Improvement
Company--old Tom Corkle who owned the market garden farms that gave the village of Corklesville
its name, would have laughed himself sore had he been alive--was ripped off and various teams
loaded with all sorts of furniture, some very expensive and showy and some quite the contrary--especially
that belonging to the servants' rooms--were backed up to the newly finished porch with its
second coat of paint still wet, and their contents duly distributed upstairs and downstairs
and in my lady Corinne's chamber.

"Got to put on the brakes, old man," Garry had said one day to Jack. The boy had heard of the
expected change in the architect's finances before the villa was rented, and so Garry's confidential
communication was not news to him.

"Been up to look at one of those new houses. Regular bird cage, but we can get along. Besides,
this town is going to grow and I'm going to help it along. They are all dead out here--embalmed,
some of them--but dead." Here he opened the pamphlet of the company--"See this house--an hour
from New York; high ground; view of the harbor--(all a lie, Jack, but it goes all the same);
sewers, running water, gas (lot of the last,--most of it in the prospectus) It's called Elm
Crest--beautiful, isn't it,--and not a stump within half a mile."

Jack always remembered the interview. That Garry should help along anything that he took an
interest in was quite in the line of his ambition and ability. Minott was as "smart as a steel
trap," Holker Morris had always said of him, "and a wonderful fellow among the men. He can
get anything out of them; he would really make a good politician. His handling of the Corn
Exchange showed that."

And so it was not surprising,--not to Jack,--that when a new village councilman was to be elected,
Garry should have secured votes enough to be included among their number. Nor was it at all
wonderful that after taking his seat he should have been placed in charge of the village funds
so far as the expenditures for contract work went. The prestige of Morris's office settled
all doubts as to his fitness in construction; and the splendor of the wedding--there could
still be seen posted in the houses of the workmen the newspaper cuts showing the bride and
groom leaving the church--silenced all opposition to "our fellow townsman's" financial responsibility,
even when that opposition was led by so prominent a ward heeler as Mr. Patrick McGowan, who
had planned to get the position himself--and who became Garry's arch enemy thereafter.

In these financial and political advancements Corinne helped but little. None of the village
people interested her, nor did she put herself out in the least to be polite to them. Ruth
had called and had brought her hands full of roses--and so had her father. Garry had continued
to thank them both for their good word to the church wardens--and he himself now and then spent
an evening at MacFarlane's house without Corinne, who generally pleaded illness; but the little
flame of friendship which had flashed after their arrival in Corklesville had died down again.

This had gone on until the acquaintance had practically ended, except when they met on the
trains or in crossing the ferry. Then again, Ruth and her father lived at one end of the village
known as Corklesville, and Garry and Corinne lived at the other end, known as Elm Crest, the
connecting link being the railroad, a fact which Jack told Garry with a suggestive laugh, made
them always turn their backs on each other when they parted to go to their respective homes,
to which Garry would reply that it was an outrage and that he was coming up that very night--all
of which he failed to do when the proposed visit was talked over with Corinne.

None of this affected Jack. He would greet Corinne as affectionately and cordially as he had
ever done. He had taken her measure years before, but that made no difference to him, he never
forgetting that she was his uncle's nominal daughter; that they had been sheltered by the same
roof and that she therefore in a way belonged to his people. Moreover, he realized, that like
himself, she had been compelled to give up many of the luxuries and surroundings to which she
had been accustomed and which she loved,--worthless now to Jack in his freedom, but still precious
to her. This in itself was enough to bespeak his sympathy. Not that she valued it;--she rather
sniffed at it.

"I wish Jack wouldn't stand with his hat off until I get aboard the train," she had told Garry
one day shortly after their arrival--"he makes me so conspicuous. And he wears such queer clothes.
He was in his slouch hat and rough flannel shirt and high boots the other day and looked like
a tramp."

"Better not laugh at Jack, Cory," Garry had replied; "you'll be taking your own hat off to
him one of these days; we all shall. Arthur Breen missed it when he let him go. Jack's queer
about some things, but he's a thoroughbred and he's got brains!"

"He insulted Mr. Breen in his own house, that's why he let him go," snapped Corinne. The idea
of her ever taking off her hat, even figuratively, to John Breen, was not to be brooked,--not
for an instant.

"Yes, that's one way of looking at it, Cory, but I tell you if Arthur Breen had had Jack with
him these last few months--ever since he left him, in fact,--and had listened once in a while
to what Jack thought was fair and square, the firm of A. B. & Co. would have a better hold
on things than they've got now; and he wouldn't have dropped that million either. The cards
don't always come up the right way, even when they're stacked."

"It just served my stepfather right for not giving us some of it, and I'm glad he lost it,"
Corinne rejoined, her anger rising again. "I have never forgiven him for not making me an allowance
after I married, and I never will. He could, at least, have continued the one he always gave me."

Garry winked sententiously, and remarked in reply that he might be making the distinguished
money-bags an allowance himself one of these fine days, and he could if some of the things
he was counting on came out top side up, but Corinne's opinions did not change either toward
Jack or her stepfather.

CHAPTER XIX

When the pain in Jack's heart over Ruth became unbearable, there was always one refuge left--one
balm which never failed to soothe, and that was Peter.

For though he held himself in readiness for her call, being seldom absent lest she might need
his services, their constrained intercourse brought with it more pain than pleasure. It was
then that he longed for the comfort which only his dear mentor could give.

On these occasions Mrs. McGuffey would take the lace cover off Miss Felicia's bureau, as a
matter of precaution, provided that lady was away and the room available, and roll in a big
tub for the young gentleman--"who do be washin' hisself all the time and he that sloppy that
I'm afeared everything will be spi'lt for the mistress," and Jack would slip out of his working
clothes (he would often come away in his flannel shirt and loose tie, especially when he was
late in paying off) and shed his heavy boots with the red clay of Jersey still clinging to
their soles, and get into his white linen and black clothes and dress shoes, and then the two
chums would lock arms and saunter up Fifth Avenue to dine either at one of Peter's clubs or
at some house where he and that "handsome young ward of yours, Mr. Grayson--do bring him again,"
were so welcome.

If Miss Felicia was in town and her room in use, there was never any change in the programme,
Mrs. McGuffey rising to the emergency and discovering another and somewhat larger apartment
in the next house but two--"for one of the finest gintlemen ye ever saw and that quiet," etc.--into
which Jack would move and which the good woman would insist on taking full charge of herself.

It was on one of these blessed and always welcome nights, after the two had been dining at
"a little crack in the wall," as Peter called a near-by Italian restaurant, that he and Jack
stopped to speak to Isaac Cohen whom they found closing his shop for the night. Cohen invited
them in and Jack, after following the little tailor through the deserted shop--all the work
people had left--found himself, to his great surprise, in a small room at the rear, which Isaac
opened with a key taken from his vest pocket, and which even in the dim light of a single gas
jet had more the appearance of the den of a scholar, or the workshop of a scientist, than the
private office of a fashioner of clothes.

Peter only stayed a moment--long enough to borrow the second volume of one of Isaac's books,
but the quaint interior and what it contained made a great impression on Jack,--so much so
that when the two had said good-night and mounted the stairs to Peter's rooms, it was with
increased interest that the boy listened to the old fellow who stopped on every landing to
tell him some incident connected with the little tailor and his life: How after his wife's
death some years before, and his only daughter's marriage--"and a great affair it was, my boy,
I was there and know,"--Cohen had moved down to his shop and fitted up the back room for a
little shelter of his own, where he had lived with his books and his personal belongings and
where he had met the queerest looking people--with big heads and bushy beards--foreigners,
some of them--speaking all kinds of languages, as well as many highly educated men in town.

Once inside his own cosey rooms Peter bustled about, poking the fire into life, drawing the
red curtains closer, moving a vase of roses so he could catch their fragrance from where he
sat, wheeling two big, easy, all-embracing arm-chairs to the blaze, rolling a small table laden
with various burnables and pourables within reach of their elbows, and otherwise disporting
himself after the manner of the most cheery and lovable of hosts. This done, he again took
up the thread of his discourse.

"Yes! He's a wonderful old fellow, this Isaac Cohen," he rattled on when the two were seated.
"You had only a glimpse of that den of his, but you should see his books on costumes,--he's
an authority, you know,--and his miniatures,--Oh, a Cosway, which he keeps in his safe, that
is a wonder!--and his old manuscripts. Those are locked up too. And he's a gentleman, too,
Jack; not once in all the years I have known him have I ever heard him mention the word money
in an objectionable way, and he has plenty of it even if he does press off my coat with his
own hands. Can you recall anybody you know, my boy--even in the houses where you and I have
been lately, who doesn't let the word slip out in a dozen different ways before the evening
is over? And best of all, he's sane,--one of the few men whom it is safe to let walk around loose."

"And you like him?"

"Immensely."

"And you never remember he is a Jew?" This was one of the things Jack had never understood.

"Never;--that's not his fault,--rather to his credit."

"Why?"

"Because the world is against both him and his race, and yet in all the years I have known
him, nothing has ever soured his temper."

Jack struck a match, relit his cigar and settling himself more comfortably in his chair, said
in a positive tone:

"Sour or sweet,--I don't like Jews,--never did."

"You don't like him because you don't know him. That's your fault, not his. But you would like
him, let me tell you, if you could hear him talk. And now I think of it, I am determined you
shall know him, and right away. Not that he cares--Cohen's friends are among the best men in
London, especially the better grade of theatrical people, whose clothes he has made and whose
purses he has kept full--yes--and whom he sometimes had to bury to keep them out of Potter's
field; and those he knows here--his kind of people, I mean, not yours."

"All in his line of business, Uncle Peter," Jack laughed. "How much interest did they pay,--cent
per cent?"

"I am ashamed of you, Jack. Not a penny. Don't let your mind get clogged up, my boy, with such
prejudices,--keep the slate of your judgment sponged clean."

"But you believe everybody is clean, Uncle Peter."

"And so must you, until you prove them dirty. Now, will you do me a very great kindness and
yourself one as well? Please go downstairs, rap three times at Mr. Cohen's shutters--hard,
so that he can hear you--that's my signal--present my compliments and ask him to be kind enough
to come up and have a cigar with us."

Jack leaned forward in his seat, his face showing his astonishment.

"You don't mean it?"

"I do."

"All right."

The boy was out of his chair and clattering down-stairs before Peter could add another word
to his message. If he had asked him to crawl out on the roof and drop himself into the third-story
window of the next house, he would have obeyed him with the same alacrity.

Peter wheeled up another chair; added some small and large glasses to the collection on the
tray and awaited Jack's return. The experience was not new. The stupid, illogical prejudice
was not confined to inexperienced lads.

He had had the same thing to contend with dozens of times before. Even Holker had once said:
"Peter, what the devil do you find in that little shrimp of a Hebrew to interest you? Is he
cold that you warm him, or hungry that you feed him,--or lonely that--"

"Stop right there, Holker! You've said it,--lonely--that's it--LONELY! That's what made me
bring him up the first time he was ever here. It seemed such a wicked thing to me to have him
at one end of the house--the bottom end, too--crooning over a fire, and I at the top end crooning
over another, when one blaze could warm us both. So up he came, Holker, and now it is I who
am lonely when a week passes and Isaac does not tap at my door, or I tap at his."

The distinguished architect understood it all a week later when the new uptown synagogue was
being talked of and he was invited to meet the board, and found to his astonishment that the
wise little man with the big gold spectacles, occupying the chair was none other than Peter's
tailor.

"Our mutual friend Mr. Grayson, of the Exeter Bank, spoke to me about you, Mr. Morris," said
the little man without a trace of foreign accent and with all the composure of a great banker
making a government loan; rising at the same time, with great dignity introducing Morris to
his brother trustees and then placing him in the empty seat next his own. After that, and on
more than one occasion, there were three chairs around Peter's blaze, with Morris in one of them.

All these thoughts coursed through Peter's head as Jack and Cohen were mounting the three flights
of stairs.

"Ah, Isaac," he cried at first sight of his friend, "I just wanted you to know my boy, Jack
Breen, better, and as his legs are younger than mine, I sent him down instead of going myself--you
don't mind, do you?"

"Mind!--of course I do not mind,--but I do know Mr. Breen. I first met him many months ago--when
your sister was here--and then I see him going in and out all the time--and--"

"Stop your nonsense, Isaac;--that's not the way to know a man; that's the way not to know him,
but what's more to the point is, I want Jack to know you. These young fellows have very peculiar
ideas about a good many things,--and this boy is like all the rest--some of which ought to
be knocked out of his head,--your race, for one thing. He thinks that because you are a Jew
that you--"

Jack uttered a smothered, "Oh, Uncle Peter!" but the old fellow who now had the tailor in one
of his big chairs and was filling a thin wineglass with a brown liquid (ten years in the wood)--Holker
sent it--kept straight on. "Jack's all right inside, or I wouldn't love him, but there are
a good many things he has got to learn, and you happen to be one of them."

Cohen lay back in his chair and laughed heartily.

"Do not mind him, Mr. Breen,--do not mind a word he says. He mortifies me that same way. And
now--" here he turned his head to Peter--"what does he think of my race?"

"Oh! He thinks you are a lot of money-getters and pawnbrokers, gouging the poor and squeezing
the rich."

Jack broke out into a cold perspiration: "Really, Uncle Peter! Now, Mr. Cohen, won't you please
believe that I never said one word of it," exclaimed Jack in pleading tones, his face expressing
his embarrassment.

"I never said you did, Jack," rejoined Peter with mock solemnity in his voice. "I said you
THOUGHT so. And now here he is,--look at him. Does he look like Scrooge or Shylock or some
old skinflint who--" here he faced Cohen, his eyes brimming with merriment--"What are we going
to do with this blasphemer, Isaac? Shall we boil him in oil as they did that old sixteenth-century
saint you were telling me about the other night, or shall we--?"

The little tailor threw out his hands--each finger an exclamation point--and laughed heartily,
cutting short Peter's tirade.

"No--no--we do none of these dreadful things to Mr. Breen; he is too good to be a saint," and
he patted Jack's knees--"and then again it is only the truth. Mr. Breen is quite right; we
are a race of money-getters, and we are also the world's pawnbrokers and will always be. Sometimes
we make a loan on a watch or a wedding ring to keep some poor soul from starving; sometimes
it is a railroad to give a millionaire a yacht, or help buy his wife a string of pearls. It
is quite the same, only over one shop we hang three gilt balls: on the other we nail a sign
which reads: 'Financial Agents.' And it is the same Jew, remember, who stands behind both counters.
The first Jew is overhauled almost every day by the police; the second Jew is regarded as our
public-spirited citizen. So you see, my young friend, that it is only a question of the amount
of money you have got whether you loan on rings or railroads."

"And whether the Christian lifts his hat or his boot," laughed Peter.

Cohen leaned his elbows on his plump knees and went on, the slender glass still in his hand,
from which now and then he took a sip. Peter sat buried in his chair, his cigar between his
fingers. Jack held his peace; it was not for him to air his opinions in the presence of the
two older men, and then again the tailor had suddenly become a savant.

"Of course, there are many things I wish were different," the tailor continued in a more thoughtful
tone. "Many of my people forget their birthright and force themselves on the Christian, trying
to break down the fence which has always divided us, and which is really our best protection.
As long as we keep to ourselves we are a power. Persecution,--and sometimes it amounts to that--is
better than amalgamation; it brings out our better fighting qualities and makes us rely on
ourselves. This is the view of our best thinkers, and they are right. Just hear me run on!
Why talk about these things? They are for graybeards, not young fellows with the world before
them." Cohen straightened up--laid his glass on the small table, waved his hand in denial to
Peter who started to refill it, and continued, turning to Jack: "And now let me hear something
about your own work, Mr. Breen," he said in his kindest and most interested voice. "Mr. Grayson
tells me you are cutting a great tunnel. Under a mountain, is it not? Ah!--that is something
worth doing. And here is this old uncle of yours with his fine clothes and his old wine, who
does nothing but pore over his musty bank-books, and here am I in the cellar below, who can
only sew on buttons, and yet we have the impudence to criticise you. Really, I never heard
of such conceit!"

"Oh!--but it isn't my tunnel," Jack eagerly protested, greatly amused at the Jew's talk; "I
am just an assistant, Mr. Cohen." Somehow he had grown suddenly smaller since the little man
had been talking.

"Yes,--of course, we are all assistants; Mr. Grayson assists at the bank, and I assist my man,
Jacob, who makes such funny mistakes in the cut of his trousers. Oh, yes, that is quite the
way life is made up. But about this tunnel? It is part of this new branch, is it not? Some
of my friends have told me about it. And it is going straight through the mountain."

And then before Jack or Peter could reply the speaker branched out into an account of the financing
of the great Mt. Cenis tunnel, and why the founder of the house of Rothschild, who had "assisted"
in its construction, got so many decorations from foreign governments; the talk finally switching
off to the enamelled and jewelled snuff boxes of Baron James Rothschild, whose collection had
been the largest in Europe; and what had become of it; and then by one of those illogical jumps--often
indulged in by well-informed men discussing any subject that absorbs them--brought up at Voltaire
and Taine and the earlier days of the Revolution in which one of the little tailor's ancestors
had suffered spoliation and death.

Jack sat silent--he had long since found himself out of his depth--drinking in every word of
the talk, his wonderment increasing every moment, not only over Cohen, but over Peter as well,
whom he had never before heard so eloquent or so learned, or so entertaining. When at last
the little man rose to go, the boy, with one of those spontaneous impulses which was part of
his nature, sprang from his seat, found the tailor's hat himself, and conducting him to the
door, wished him good-night with all the grace and well-meant courtesy he would show a prince
of the blood, should he ever be fortunate enough to meet one.

Peter was standing on the mat, his back to the fire, when the boy returned.

"Jack, you delight me!" the old fellow cried. "Your father couldn't have played host better.
Really, I am beginning to believe I won't have to lock you up in an asylum. You're getting
wonderfully sane, my boy,--real human. Jack, do you know that if you keep on this way I shall
really begin to love you!"

"But what an extraordinary man," exclaimed Jack, ignoring Peter's compliment and badinage.
"Is there anything he does not know?"

"Yes,--many things. Oh! a great many things. He doesn't know how to be rude, or ill bred, or
purse-proud. He doesn't know how to snub people who are poorer than he is, or to push himself
in where he isn't wanted; or to talk behind people's backs after he has accepted their hospitality.
Just plain gentleman journeyman tailor, Jack. And now, my boy, be honest. Isn't he a relief
after some of the people you and I meet every day?"

Jack settled again in his chair. His mind was not at all easy.

"Yes, he is, and that makes me afraid I was rude. I didn't mean to be."

"No,--you acted just right. I wanted to draw him out so you could hear, and you must say that
he was charming. And the best of it is that he could have talked equally well on a dozen other
subjects."

For some time Jack did not answer. Despite Peter's good opinion of him, he still felt that
he had either said or done something he should be ashamed of. He knew it was his snap judgment
about Cohen that had been the cause of the object lesson he had just received. Peter had not
said so in so many words--it was always with a jest or a laugh that he corrected his faults,
but he felt their truth all the same.

For some minutes he leaned back in his chair, his eyes on the ceiling; then he said in a tone
of conviction:

"I WAS wrong about Mr. Cohen, Uncle Peter. I am always putting my foot in it. He is an extraordinary
man. He certainly is, to listen to, whatever he is in his business."

"No, Jack, my boy--you were only honest," Peter rejoined, passing over the covert allusion
to the financial side of the tailor. "You didn't like his race and you said so. Act first.
Then you found out you were wrong and you said so. Act second. Then you discovered you owed
him an ample apology and you bowed him out as if he had been a duke. Act third. And now comes
the epilogue--Better be kind and human than be king! Eh, Jack?" and the old gentleman threw
back his head and laughed heartily.

Jack made no reply. He was through with Cohen;--something else was on his mind of far more
importance than the likes and dislikes of all the Jews in Christendom. Something he had intended
to lay before Peter at the very moment the old fellow had sent him for Isaac--something he
had come all the way to New York to discuss with him; something that had worried him for days.
There was but half an hour left; then he must get his bag and say good-night and good-by for
another week or more.

Peter noticed the boy's mood and laid his hand on his wrist. Somehow this was not the same Jack.

"I haven't hurt you, my son, have I?" he asked with a note of tenderness in his voice.

"Hurt me! You couldn't hurt me, Uncle Peter!" There was no question of his sincerity as he
spoke. It sprang straight from his heart.

"Well, then, what's the matter?--out with it. No secrets from blundering old Peter," he rejoined
in a satisfied tone.

Jack laughed gently: "Well, sir, it's about the work." It wasn't; but it might lead to it later on.

"Work!--what's the matter with the work! Anything wrong?" There was a note of alarm now that
made Jack reply hastily:

"No, it will be finished next month: we are lining up the arches this week and the railroad
people have already begun to dump their cross ties along the road bed. It's about another job.
Mr. MacFarlane, I am afraid, hasn't made much money on the fill and tunnel, but he has some
other work offered him up in Western Maryland, which he may take, and which, if he does, may
pay handsomely. He wants me to go with him. It means a shanty and a negro cook, as near as
I can figure it, but I shall get used to that, I suppose. What do you think about it?"

"Well," chuckled Peter--it was not news; MacFarlane had told him all about it the week before
at the Century--"if you can keep the shanty tight and the cook sober you may weather it. It
must be great fun living in a shanty. I never tried it, but I would like to."

"Yes, perhaps it is,--but it has its drawbacks. I can't come to see you for one thing, and
then the home will be broken up. Miss Ruth will go back to her grandmother's for a while, she
says, and later on she will visit the Fosters at Newport and perhaps spend a month with Aunt
Felicia." He called her so now.

Jack paused for some further expression of opinion from his always ready adviser, but Peter's
eyes were still fixed on the slow, dying fire.

"It will be rather a rough job from what I saw of it," Jack went on. "We are to run a horizontal
shaft into some ore deposits. Mr. MacFarlane and I have been studying the plans for some time;
we went over the ground together last month. That's why I didn't come to you last week."

Peter twisted his head: "What's the name of the nearest town?" MacFarlane had told him but
he had forgotten.

"Morfordsburg. I was there once with my father when I was a boy. He had some ore lands near
where these are;--those he left me. The Cumberland property we always called it. I told you
about it once. It will never amount to anything,--except by expensive boring. That is also
what hurts the value of this new property the Maryland Mining Company owns. That's what they
want Mr. MacFarlane for. Now, what would you do if you were me?"

"What sort of a town is Morfordsburg?" inquired Peter, ignoring Jack's question, his head still
buried between his shoulders.

"Oh, like all other country villages, away from railroad connection."

"Any good houses,--any to rent?"

"Yes,--I saw two."

"And you want my advice, do you, Jack?" he burst out, rising erect in his seat.

"Yes."

"Well, I'd stick to MacFarlane and take Ruth with me."

Jack broke out into a forced laugh. Peter had arrived by a short cut! Now he knew, he was a
mind reader.

"She won't go," he answered in a voice that showed he was open to conviction. Peter, perhaps,
had something up his sleeve.

"Have you asked her?" The old fellow's eyes were upon him now.

"No,--not in so many words."

"Well, try it. She has always gone with her father; she loves the outdoor life and it loves
her. I never saw her look as pretty as she is now, and she has her horse too. Try asking her
yourself, beg her to come along and keep house and make a home for the three of you."

Jack leaned back in his seat, his face a tangle of hopes and fears. What was Uncle Peter driving
at, anyhow?

"I have tried other things, and she would not listen," he said in a more positive tone. Again
the two interviews he had had with Ruth came into his mind; the last one as if it had been
yesterday.

"Try until she DOES listen," continued Peter. "Tell her you will be very lonely if she doesn't
go, and that she is the one and only thing in Corklesville that interests you outside of your
work--and be sure you mention the dear girl first and the work last--and that you won't have
another happy hour if she leaves you in the--"

"Oh!--Uncle Peter!"

"And why not? It's a fact, isn't it? You were honest about Isaac; why not be honest with Ruth?"

"I am."

"No, you're not,--you only tell her half what's in your heart. Tell her all of it! The poor
child has been very much depressed of late, so Felicia tells me, over something that troubles
her, and I wouldn't be at all surprised if you were at the bottom of it. Give yourself an overhauling
and find out what you have said or done to hurt her. She will never forget you for pulling
her father out of that hole, nor will he."

Jack bristled up: "I don't want her to think of me in that way!"

"Oh, you don't! don't you? Oh, of course not! You want her to think of you as a great and glorious
young knight who goes prancing about the world doing good from habit, and yet you are so high
and mighty that--Jack, you rascal, do you know you are the stupidest thing that breathes? You're
like a turkey, my boy, trying to get over the top rail of a pen with its head in the air, when
all it has to do is to stoop a little and march out on its toes."

Jack rose from his seat and walked toward the fire, where he stood with one hand on the mantel.
He knew Peter had a purpose in all his raillery and yet he dared not voice the words that trembled
on his lips; he could tell the old fellow everything in his life except his love for Ruth and
her refusal to listen to him. This was the bitterest of all his failures, and this he would
not and could not pour into Peter's ears. Neither did he want Ruth to have Peter's help, nor
Miss Felicia's; nor MacFarlane's; not anybody's help where her heart was concerned. If Ruth
loved him that was enough, but he wouldn't have anybody persuade her to love him, or advise
with her about loving him. How much Peter knew he could not say. Perhaps!--perhaps Ruth told
him something!--something he was keeping to himself!

As this last thought forced itself into his brain a great surge of joy swept over him. For
a brief moment he stood irresolute. One of Peter's phrases now rang clear: "Stoop a little!"
Stoop?--hadn't he done everything a man could do to win a woman, and had he not found the bars
always facing him?

With this his heart sank again. No, there was no use of thinking anything more about it, nor
would he tell him. There were some things that even Peter couldn't understand,--and no wonder,
when you think how many years had gone by since he loved any woman.

The chime of the little clock rang out.

Jack turned quickly: "Eleven o'clock, Uncle Peter, and I must go; time's up. I hate to leave you."

"And what about the shanty and the cook?" said Peter, his eyes searching Jack's.

"I'll go,--I intended to go all the time if you approved."

"And what about Ruth?"

"Don't ask me, Uncle Peter, not now." And he hurried off to pack his bag.

CHAPTER XX

If Jack, after leaving Peter and racing for the ferry, had, under Peter's advice, formulated
in his mind any plan by which he could break down Ruth's resolve to leave both her father and
himself in the lurch and go out in the gay world alone, there was one factor which he must
have left out of his calculations--and that was the unexpected.

One expression of Peter's, however, haunted him all the way home:--that Ruth was suffering
and that he had been the cause of it. Had he hurt her?--and if so, how and when? With this,
the dear girl's face, with the look of pain on it which Miss Felicia had noticed, rose before
him. Perhaps Peter was right. He had never thought of Ruth's side of the matter--had never
realized that she, too, might have suffered. To-morrow he would go to her. If he could not
win her for himself he could, at least, find out the cause and help relieve her pain.

This idea so possessed him that it was nearly dawn before he dropped to sleep.

With the morning everything changed.

Such a rain had never been known to fall--not in the memory of the oldest moss-back in the
village--if any such ancient inhabitant existed. Twelve hours of it had made rivers of the
streets, quagmires of the roads, and covered the crossings ankle-deep with mud. It had begun
in the night while Isaac was expounding his views on snuff boxes, tunnels, and Voltaire to
Peter and Jack, had followed Jack across the river and had continued to soak into his clothes
until he opened Mrs. Hicks's front door with his private key. It was still pelting away the
next morning, when Jack, alarmed at its fury, bolted his breakfast, and, donning his oilskins
and rubber boots, hurried to the brick office from whose front windows he could get a view
of the fill, the culvert, and the angry stream, and from whose rear windows could be seen half
a mile up the raging torrent, the curve of the unfinished embankment flanking one side of the
new boulevard which McGowan was building under a contract with the village.

Hardly had he slipped off his boots and tarpaulins when MacFarlane, in mackintosh and long
rubber boots, splashed in:

"Breen," said his Chief, loosening the top button of his storm coat and threshing the water
from his cap:

Jack was on his feet in an instant:

"Yes, sir."

"I wish you would take a look at the boulevard spillway. I know McGowan's work and how he skins
it sometimes, and I'm getting worried. Coggins says the water is backing up, and that the slopes
are giving way. You can see yourself what a lot of water is coming down--" here they both gazed
through the open window. "I never saw that stream look like that since I've been here; there
must be a frightful pressure now on McGowan's retaining walls. We should have a close shave
if anything gave way above us. Our own culvert's working all right, but it's taxed now to its
utmost."

Jack unhooked his water-proof from a nail behind the door--he had began putting on his rubber
boots again before MacFarlane finished speaking.

"He will have to pay the bills, sir, if anything gives way--" Jack replied in a determined
voice. "Garry told me only last week that McGowan had to take care of his own water; that was
part of his contract. It comes under Garry's supervision, you know."

"Yes, I know, and that may all be so, Breen," he replied with a flickering smile, "but it won't
do us any good,--or the road either. They want to run cars next month."

The door again swung wide, and a man drenched to the skin, the water glistening on his bushy
gray beard stepped in.

"I heard you were here, sir, and had to see you. There's only four feet lee-way in our culvert,
sir, and the scour's eating into the underpinning; I am just up from there. We are trying bags
of cement, but it doesn't do much good."

MacFarlane caught up his hat and the two hurried down stream to the "fill," while Jack, buttoning
his oilskin jacket over his chest, and crowding his slouch hat close to his eyebrows and ears
strode out into the downpour, his steps bent in the opposite direction.

The sight that met his eyes was even more alarming. The once quiet little stream, with its
stretch of meadowland reaching to the foot of the steep hills, was now a swirl of angry reddish
water careering toward the big culvert under the "fill." There it struck the two flanking walls
of solid masonry, doubled in volume and thus baffled, shot straight into and under the culvert
and so on over the broad fields below.

Up the stream toward the boulevard on the other side of its sky line, groups of men were already
engaged carrying shovels, or lugging pieces of timber as they hurried along its edge, only
to disappear for an instant and reappear again empty-handed. Shouts could be heard, as if some
one were giving orders. Against the storm-swept sky, McGowan's short, squat figure was visible,
his hands waving wildly to other gangs of men who were running at full speed toward where he stood.

Soon a knife-edge of water glistened along the crest of the earth embankment supporting the
roadway of the boulevard, scattered into a dozen sluiceways, gashing the sides of the slopes,
and then, before Jack could realize his own danger, the whole mass collapsed only to be swallowed
up in a mighty torrent which leaped straight at him.

Jack wheeled suddenly, shouted to a man behind him to run for his life, and raced on down stream
toward the "fill" a mile below where MacFarlane and his men, unconscious of their danger, were
strengthening the culvert and its approaches.

On swept the flood, tearing up trees, cabins, shanties, fences; swirling along the tortuous
bed only to leap and swirl again, its solid front bristling with the debris it had wrenched
loose in its mad onslaught, Jack in his line of flight keeping abreast of its mighty thrust,
shouting as he ran, pressing into service every man who could help in the rescue.

But MacFarlane had already been forewarned. The engineer of the morning express, who had crossed
close to the boulevard at the moment the break occurred, had leaned far out of his cab as the
train thundered by at right angles to the "fill," and with cupped hands to his mouth, had hurled
this yell into the ravine:

"Water! Look out! Everything busted up above! Water! Water! Run, for God's sake!"

The men stood irresolute, but MacFarlane sprang to instant action. Grabbing the man next him,--an
Italian who understood no English--he dragged him along, shouting to the others, the crowd
swarming up, throwing away their shovels in their flight until the whole posse reached a point
of safety near the mouth of the tunnel.

There he turned and braced himself for the shock. He realized fully what had happened: McGowan's
ill-constructed culvert had sagged and choked; a huge basin of water had formed behind it;
the retaining walls had been undermined and the whole mass was sweeping down upon him. Would
there be enough of it to overflow the crest line of his own "fill" or not? If it could stand
the first on-thrust there was one chance in a hundred of its safety, provided the wing-walls
and the foundations of the culvert held up its arch, thus affording gradual relief until the
flood should have spent its force.

It was but a question of minutes. He could already see the trees sway as the mad flood struck
them, the smaller ones rebounding, the large ones toppling over. Then came a dull roar like
that of a tram through a covered bridge, and then a great wall of yellow suds, boiling, curling,
its surface covered with sticks, planks, shingles, floating barrels, parts of buildings, dashed
itself against the smoothed earth slopes of his own "fill," surged a third of its height, recoiled
on itself, swirled furiously again, and then inch by inch rose toward the top. Should it plunge
over the crest, the "fill" would melt away as a rising tide melts a sand fort, the work of
months be destroyed, and his financial ruin be a certainty.

But the man who had crawled out on the shore end of the great cantilever bridge over the Ohio,
and who had with his own hands practically set the last rebellious steel girder one hundred
feet above the water level, had still some resources left. Grabbing a shovel from a railroad
employee, he called to his men and began digging a trench on the tunnel end of the "fill" to
form a temporary spillway should the top of the flood reach the crest of the road bed.

Fifty or more men sprang to his assistance with pick and shovel wherever one could stand and
dig. The water had now reached within five feet of the top: the rise was slower, showing that
the volume had lessened; the soakage, too, was helping, but the water still gained. The bottom
of the trench, cut transversely across the road bed of the "fill," out of which the dirt was
still flying from scores of willing shovels, had reached the height of the flood line. It was
wide enough and deep enough to take care of the slowly rising overflow and would relieve the
pressure on the whole structure; but the danger was not there. What was to be feared was the
scour on the down-stream--far side--slope of the "fill." This also, was of loose earth: too
great a gulch might mean total collapse.

To lessen this scour MacFarlane had looted a carload of plank switched on to a siding, and
a gang of men in charge of Jack,--who had now reached his Chief's side,--were dragging them
along the downstream slope to form sluices with which to break the force of the scour.

The top of the flood now poured into the mouth of the newly dug trench, biting huge mouthfuls
of earth from its sides in its rush; spreading the reddish water fan-like over the down-stream
slope: first into gullies; then a broad sluiceway that sunk out of sight in the soft earth;
then crumblings, slidings of tons of sand and gravel, with here and there a bowlder washed
clean; the men working like beavers,--here to free a rock, there to drive home a plank, the
trench all the while deepening, widening--now a gulch ten feet across and as deep, now a canon
through which surged a solid mass of frenzied water.

With the completion of the first row of planking MacFarlane took up a position where he could
overlook all parts of the work. Every now and then his eyes would rest on a water-gauge which
he had improvised from the handle of a pick; the rise and fall of the wet mark showing him
both the danger and the safety lines. He seemed the least interested man in the group. Once
in a while he would consult his watch, counting the seconds, only to return to the gauge.

That thousands of dollars' damage had so far been done did not seem to affect him in the least.
Only when Jack would call out that everything so far was solid on the main "fill" did his calm
face light up.

Tightening his wide slouch hat farther down on his head, he drew up the tops of his high-water
boots and strode through the slush to the pick-handle. His wooden record showed that half an
hour before the water had been rising at the rate of an inch every three minutes; that it had
then taken six, and now required eight! He glanced at the sky; it had stopped raining and a
light was breaking in the West.

Pocketing his watch he beckoned to Jack:

"The worst is over, Breen," he said in a voice of perfect calmness--the tone of a doctor after
feeling a patient's pulse. "Our culvert is doing its work and relieving the pressure. This
water will be out of here by morning. Tell the foreman to keep those planks moving wherever
they do any good, but they won't count much longer. You can see the difference already in the
overflow. And now go up to the house and tell Ruth. She may not know we are all right and will
be worrying."

Jack's heart gave a bound. No more delightful duty could devolve on him.

"What shall I tell her about the damage if she asks me, sir?" he demanded, hiding his pleasure
in a perfunctory, businesslike tone, "and she will."

"Tell her it means all summer here for me and no new bonnets for her until next winter," replied
MacFarlane with a grim smile.

"Yes, I suppose, but I referred to the money loss," Jack laughed in reply. "There is no use
worrying her if we are not to blame for this." He didn't intend to worry her. He was only feeling
about for some topic which would prolong his visit and encourage conversation.

"If we are, it means some thousands of dollars on the wrong side of the ledger," answered MacFarlane
after a pause, a graver tone in his voice. "But don't tell Ruth that. Just give her my message
about the bonnet--she will understand."

"But not if McGowan is liable," argued Jack. If Ruth was to hear bad news it could at least
be qualified.

"That depends somewhat on the wording of his contract, Breen, and a good deal on whether this
village wants to hold him to it. I'm not crossing any bridges of that kind, and don't you.
What I'm worrying about is the number of days and nights it's going to take to patch this work
so they can get trains through our tunnel--And, Breen--"

"Yes, sir," answered Jack, as he stopped and looked over his shoulder. There were wings on
his feet now.

"Get into some dry clothes before you come back."

While all this had been going on Ruth had stood at the window in the upper hall opposite the
one banked with geraniums, too horrified to move. She had watched with the aid of her opera-glass
the wild torrent rushing through the meadow, and she had heard the shouts of the people in
the streets and the prolonged roar when the boulevard embankment gave way.

The hurried entrance and startled cry of the grocer's boy in the kitchen below, and the loud
talk that followed, made her move to the head of the stairs. There she stood listening, her
heart in her mouth, her knees trembling. Such expressions as "drownded,"--"more'n a hundred
of 'em--" reached her ears. Then came the words--"de boss's work busted; ain't nobody seen
him alive, so dey say."

For an instant she clutched the hand rail to keep her from falling, then with a cry of terror
she caught up an old cloth cape, bound a hat to her head with a loose veil, and was downstairs
and into the street before the boy had reached the curb.

"Yes, mum," he stammered, breathlessly, his eyes bulging from his head,--"Oh! it's awful, mum!
Don't know how many's drownded! Everybody's shovelin' on de railroad dump, but dere ain't nothin'
kin save it, dey say!"

She raced on--across the long street, avoiding the puddles as best she could; past the Hicks
Hotel--no sign of Jack anywhere--past the factory fence, until she reached the railroad, where
she stopped, gathered her bedraggled skirts in her hand and then sped on over the cross-ties
like a swallow, her little feet scarce touching the cinders.

Jack had caught sight of the flying girl as she gained the railroad and awaited her approach;
he supposed she was the half-crazed wife or daughter of some workman, bringing news of fresh
disaster, until she approached near enough for him to note the shape and size of her boots
and the way the hat and veil framed her face. But it was not until she uttered a cry of agony
and ran straight toward him, that he sprang forward to meet her and caught her in his aims
to keep her from falling.

"Oh, Jack!--where is daddy--where--" she gasped.

"Why, he is all right, Miss Ruth,--everybody's all right! Why did you come here? Oh! I am so
sorry you have had this fright! Don't answer,--just lean on me until you get your breath."

"Yes--but are you sure he is safe? The grocer's boy said nobody had seen him alive."

"Of course I am sure! Just look across--there he is; nobody could ever mistake that old slouch
hat of his. And look at the big 'fill.' It hasn't given an inch, Miss Ruth--think of it! What
a shame you have had such a fright," he continued as he led her to a pile of lumber beside
the track and moved out a dry plank where he seated her as tenderly as if she had been a frightened
child, standing over her until she breathed easier.

"But then, if he is safe, why did you leave daddy? You are not hurt yourself, are you?" she
exclaimed suddenly, reaching up her hand and catching the sleeve of his tarpaulin, a great
lump in her throat.

"Me, hurt!--not a bit of it,--not a scratch of any kind,--see!" As an object-lesson he stretched
out his arm and with one clenched hand smote his chest gorilla fashion.

"But you are all wet--" she persisted, in a more reassured tone. "You must not stand here in
this wind; you will get chilled to the bone. You must go home and get into dry clothes;--please
say you will go?"

Something warm and scintillating started from Jack's toes as the words left her lips, surged
along his spinal column, set his finger tips tingling and his heart thumping like a trip hammer.
She had called him "Jack!" She had run a mile to rescue him and her father, and she was anxious
lest he should endanger his precious life by catching cold. Cold!--had he been dragged through
the whirlpool of Niagara in the dead of winter with the thermometer at zero and then cast on
a stranded iceberg he would now be sizzling hot.

Again she repeated her command,--this time in a more peremptory tone, the same anxious note
in her voice.

"Please come, if daddy doesn't want you any more you must go home at once. I wouldn't have
you take cold for--" she did not finish the sentence; something in his face told her that her
solicitude might already have betrayed her.

"Of course, I will go just as soon as you are rested a little, but you mustn't worry about
me, Miss Ruth, I am as wet as a rat, I know, but I am that way half the time when it rains.
These tarpaulins let in a lot of water--" here he lifted his arms so she could see the openings
herself--"and then I got in over my boots trying to plug the holes in the sluiceway with some
plank." He was looking down into her eyes now. Never had he seen her so pretty. The exercise
had made roses of her cheeks, and the up-turned face framed by the thatch of a bonnet bound
with the veil, reminded him of a Madonna.

"And is everything all right with daddy? And was there nobody in the shanties?" she went on.
"Perhaps I might better try to get over where he is;--do you think I can? I would just like
to tell him how glad I am it is no worse."

"Yes, if you change boots with me," laughed Jack, determined to divert her mind; "I was nearly
swamped getting back here. That is where most of this mud came from--" and Jack turned his
long, clay-encrusted boot so that Ruth could see how large a section of the "fill" he had brought
with him.

Ruth began to laugh. There was no ostensible reason why she should laugh; there was nothing
about Jack's make-up to cause it. Indeed, she thought he had never looked so handsome, even
if his hair were plastered to his temples under his water-soaked hat and his clothes daubed
with mud.

And yet she did laugh:--At the way her veil got knotted under her chin,--so tightly knotted
that Jack had to take both hands to loosen it, begging pardon for touching her throat, and
hoping all the while that his clumsy fingers had not hurt her;--at the way her hat was crumpled,
the flowers "never,--never, being of the slightest use to anybody again"; at her bedraggled
skirts--"such a sight, and sopping wet."

And Jack laughed, too,--agreeing to everything she said, until she reached that stage in the
conversation, never omitted on occasions of this kind, when she declared, arching her head,
that she must look like a perfect fright, which Jack at once refuted exclaiming that he had
never seen her look so--he was going to say "pretty," but checked himself and substituted "well,"
instead, adding, as he wiped off her ridiculously small boots, despite her protests, with his
wet handkerchief,--that cloud-bursts were not such bad things, after all, now that he was to
have the pleasure of escorting her home.

And so the two walked back to the village, the afternoon sun, which had now shattered the lowering
clouds, gilding and glorifying their two faces, Jack stopping at Mrs. Hicks's to change his
clothes and Ruth keeping on to the house, where he was to join her an hour later, when the
two would have a cup of tea and such other comforts as that young lady might prepare for her
water-soaked lover.

CHAPTER XXI

If ten minutes make half an hour, then it took Jack that long to rush upstairs, two steps at
a time, burst into his room, strip off his boots, tear off his wet clothes, struggle into others
jerked from his wardrobe, tie a loose, red-silk scarf under the rolling collar of his light-blue
flannel shirt, slip into a grey pea-jacket and unmentionables, give his hair a brush and a
promise, tilt a dry hat on one side of his head and skip down-stairs again.

Old Mrs. Hicks had seen him coming and had tried to catch him as he flew out the door, hoping
to get some more definite news of the calamity which had stirred the village, but he was gone
before she could reach the front hall.

He had not thought of his better clothes; there might still be work to do, and his Chief might
again need his services. Ruth would understand, he said to himself--all of which was true.
Indeed, she liked him better in his high-water rubber boots, wide slouch hat and tarpaulins
than in the more conventional suit of immaculate black with which he clothed his shapely body
whenever he took her to one of the big dinners at one of the great houses on Washington Square.

And she liked this suit best of all. She had been peeping through the curtains and her critical
admiring eyes had missed no detail. She saw that the cavalier boots were gone, but she recognized
the short pea-jacket and the loose rolling collar of the soft flannel shirt circling the strong,
bronzed throat, and the dash of red in the silken scarf.

And so it is not surprising that when he got within sight of her windows, his cheeks aflame
with the crisp air, his eyes snapping with the joy of once more hearing her voice, her heart
should have throbbed with an undefinable happiness and pride as she realized that for a time,
at least, he was to be all her own. And yet when he had again taken her hand--the warmth of
his last pressure still lingered in her palm--and had looked into her eyes and had said how
he hoped he had not kept her waiting, all she could answer in reply was the non-committal remark:

"Well, now you look something like"--at which Jack's heart gave a great bound, any compliment,
however slight, being so much manna to his hungry soul; Ruth adding, as she led the way into
the sitting-room, "I lighted the wood fire because I was afraid you might still be cold."

And ten minutes had been enough for Ruth.

It had been one of those lightning changes which a pretty girl can always make when her lover
is expected any instant and she does not want to lose a moment of his time, but it had sufficed.
Something soft and clinging it was now; her lovely, rounded figure moving in its folds as a
mermaid moves in the surf; her hair shaken cut and caught up again in all its delicious abandon;
her cheeks, lips, throat, rose-color in the joy of her expectancy.

He sat drinking it all in. Had a mass of outdoor roses been laid by his side, their fragrance
filling the air, the beauty of their coloring entrancing his soul, he could not have been more
intoxicated by their beauty.

And yet, strange to say, only commonplaces rose to his lips. All the volcano beneath, and only
little spats of smoke and dying bits of ashes in evidence! Even the message of his Chief about
her not getting a new bonnet all summer seemed a godsend under the circumstances. Had there
been any basis for her self-denial he would not have told her, knowing how much anxiety she
had suffered an hour before. But there was no real good reason why she should economize either
in bonnets or in anything else she wanted. McGowan, of course, would be held responsible; for
whatever damage had been done he would have to pay. He had been present when the young architect's
watchful and trained eye had discovered some defects in the masonry of the wing walls of the
McGowan culvert bridging the stream, and had heard him tell the contractor, in so many words
that if the water got away and smashed anything below him he would charge the loss to his account.
McGowan had groveled in dissent, but it had made no impression on Garry, whose duty it was
to see that the work was properly carried out and whose signature loosened the village purse
strings.

None of these details would interest Ruth; nor was it necessary that they should. The bonnet,
however, was another matter. Bonnets were worn over pretty heads and framed lovely hair and
faces and eyes--one especially! And then again any pleasantry of her father's would tend to
relieve her mind after the anxiety of the morning. Yes, the bonnet by all means!

"Oh, I never gave you your father's message," he began, laying aside his cup, quite as if he
had just remembered it. "I ought to have done so before you hung up the hat you wore a while ago."

Ruth looked up, smiling: "Why?" There was a roguish expression about her mouth as she spoke.
She was very happy this afternoon.

"He says you won't get a new bonnet all summer," continued Jack, toying with the end of the
ribbon that floated from her waist.

Ruth put down her cup and half rose from her chair All the color had faded from her cheeks.

"Did he tell you that?" she cried, her eyes staring into his, her voice trembling as if from
some sudden fright.

Jack gazed at her in wonderment:

"Yes--of course he did and--Why, Miss Ruth!--Why, what's the matter! Have I said anything that--"

"Then something serious has happened," she interrupted in a decided tone. "That is always his
message to me when he is in trouble. That is what he telegraphed me when he lost the coffer-dam
in the Susquehanna. Oh!--he did not really tell you that, did he, Mr. Breen?" The old anxious
note had returned--the one he had heard at the "fill."

"Yes--but nothing serious HAS happened, Miss Ruth," Jack persisted, his voice rising in the
intensity of his conviction, his earnest, truthful eyes fixed on hers--"nothing that will not
come out all right in the end. Please, don't be worried, I know what I am talking about."

"Oh, yes, it is serious," she rejoined with equal positiveness. "You do not know daddy. Nothing
ever discourages him, and he meets everything with a smile--but he cannot stand any more losses.
The explosion was bad enough, but if this 'fill' is to be rebuilt, I don't know what will be
the end of it. Tell me over again, please--how did he look when he said it?--and give me just
the very words. Oh, dear, dear daddy! What will he do?" The anxious note had now fallen to
one of the deepest suffering.

Jack repeated the message word for word, all his tenderness in his tones--patting her shoulder
in his effort to comfort her--ending with a minute explanation of what Garry had told him:
but Ruth would not be convinced.

"But you don't know daddy," she kept repeating "You don't know him. Nobody does but me. He
would not have sent that message had he not meant it. Listen! There he is now!" she cried,
springing to her feet.

She had her arms around her father's neck, her head nestling on his shoulder before he had
fairly entered the door. "Daddy, dear, is it very bad?" she murmured.

"Pretty bad, little girl," he answered, smoothing her cheek tenderly with his chilled fingers
as he moved with her toward the fire, "but it might have been worse but for the way Breen handled
the men."

"And will it all have to be rebuilt?"

She was glad for Jack, but it was her father who now filled her mind.

"That I can't tell, Puss"--one of his pet names for her, particularly when she needed comforting--"but
it's safe for the night, anyway."

"And you have worked so hard--so hard!" Her beautiful arms, bare from the elbow, were still
around his neck, her cheek pressed close--her lovely, clinging body in strong contrast to the
straight, gray, forceful man in the wet storm-coat, who stood with arms about her while he
caressed her head with his brown fingers.

"Well, Puss, we have one consolation--it wasn't our fault--the 'fill' is holding splendidly
although it has had a lively shaking up. The worst was over in ten minutes, but it was pretty
rough while it lasted. I don't think I ever saw water come so fast. I saw you with Breen, but
I couldn't reach you then. Look out for your dress, daughter. I'm pretty wet."

He released her arms from his neck and walked toward the fire, stripping off his gray mackintosh
as he moved. There he stretched his hands to the blaze sod went on: "As I say, the 'fill' is
safe and will stay so, for the water is going down rapidly; dropped ten feet, Breen, since
you left. My!--but this fire feels good! Got into something dry--did you, Breen? That's right.
But I am not satisfied about the way the down-stream end of the culvert acts"--this also was
addressed to Jack--"I am afraid some part of the arch has caved in. It will be bad if it has--we
shall know in the morning. You weren't frightened, Puss, were you?"

She did not answer. She had heard that cheery, optimistic note in her father's voice before;
she knew how much of it was meant for her ears. None of his disasters were ever serious, to
hear daddy talk--"only the common lot of the contracting engineer, little girl," he would say,
kissing her good-night, while he again pored over his plans, sometimes until daylight.

She crept up to him the closer and nestled her fingers inside his collar--an old caress of
hers when she was a child, then looking up into his eyes she asked with almost a throb of suffering
in her voice, "Is it as bad as the coffer-dam, daddy?"

Jack looked on in silence. He dared not add a word of comfort of his own while his Chief held
first place in soothing her fears.

MacFarlane passed his hand over her forehead--"Don't ask me, child! Why do you want to bother
your dear head over such things, Puss?" he asked, as he stroked her hair.

"Because I must and will know. Tell me the truth," she demanded, lifting her head, a note of
resolve in her voice. "I can help you the better if I know it all." Some of the blood of one
of her great-great-grandmothers, who had helped defend a log-house in Indian times, was asserting
itself. She could weep, but she could fight, too, if necessary.

"Well, then, I'm afraid it is worse than the coffer-dam," he answered in all seriousness. "It
may be a matter of twelve or fifteen thousand dollars--maybe more, if we have to rebuild the
'fill.' I can't tell yet."

Ruth released her grasp, moved to the sofa and sank down, her chin resting on her hand. Twelve
or fifteen thousand dollars! This meant ruin to everybody--to her father, to--a new terror
now flashed into her mind--to Jack--yes, Jack! Jack would have to go away and find other work--and
just at the time, too, when he was getting to be the old Jack once more. With this came another
thought, followed by an instantaneous decision--what could she do to help? Already she had
determined on her course. She would work--support herself--relieve her father just that much.

An uncomfortable silence followed. For some moments no one spoke. Her father, stifling a sigh,
turned slowly, pushed a chair to the fire and settled into it, his rubber-encased knees wide
apart, so that the warmth of the blaze could reach most of his body. Jack found a seat beside
him, his mind on Ruth and her evident suffering, his ears alert for any fresh word from his Chief.

"I forgot to tell you, Breen," MacFarlane said at last, "that I came up the track just now
as far as the round-house with the General Manager of the Road. He has sent one of his engineers
to look after that Irishman's job before he can pull it to pieces to hide his rotten work--that
is, what is left of it. Of course it means a lawsuit or a fight in the Village Council. That
takes time and money, and generally costs more than you get. I've been there before, Breen,
and know."

"Does he understand about McGowan's contract?" inquired Jack mechanically, his eyes on Ruth.
Her voice still rang in his ears--its pathos and suffering stirred him to his very depths.

"Yes--I told him all about it," MacFarlane replied. "The Road will stand behind us--so the
General Manager says--but every day's delay is ruinous to them. It will be night-and-day work
for us now, and no let-up. I have notified the men." He rose from his seat and crossed to his
daughter's side, and leaning over, drew her toward him: "Brace up, little girl," there was
infinite tenderness in his cadences--"it's all in a lifetime. There are only two of us, you
know--just you and me, daughter--just you and me--just two of us. Kiss me, Puss."

Regaining his full height he picked up his storm-coat from the chair where he had flung it,
and with the remark to Jack, that he would change his clothes, moved toward the door. There
he beckoned to him, waited until he had reached his side, and whispering in his ear: "Talk
to her and cheer her up, Breen. Poor little girl--she worries so when anything like this happens"--mounted
the stairs to his room.

"Don't worry, Miss Ruth," said Jack in comforting tones as he returned to where she sat. "We
will all pull out yet."

"It is good of you to say so," she replied, lifting her head and leaning back so that she could
look into his eyes the better, "but I know you don't think so. Daddy was just getting over
his losses on the Susquehanna bridge. This work would have set him on his feet. Those were
his very words--and he was getting so easy in his mind, too--and we had planned so many things!"

"But you can still go to Newport," Jack pleaded. "We will be here some months yet, and--"

"Oh--but I won't go a step anywhere. I could not leave him now--that is, not as long as I can
help him."

"But aren't you going to the Fosters' and Aunt Felicia's?" She might not be, but it was good
all the same to hear her deny it.

"Not to anybody's!" she replied, with an emphasis that left no doubt in his mind.

Jack's heart gave a bound.

"But you were going if we went to Morfordsburg," he persisted. He was determined to get at
the bottom of all his misgivings. Perhaps, after all, Peter was right.

Ruth caught her breath. The name of the town had reopened a vista which her anxiety over her
father's affairs had for the moment shut out.

"Well, but that is over now. I am going to stay here and help daddy." Again the new fear tugged
at her heart. "You are going to stay, too, aren't you, Mr. Breen?" she added in quick alarm.
"You won't leave him, will you?--not if--" again the terrible money loss rose before her. What
if there should not be money enough to pay Jack?

"Me! Why, Miss Ruth!"

"But suppose he was not able to--" she could not frame the rest of the sentence.

"You can't suppose anything that would make me leave him, or the work." This also came with
an emphasis of positive certainty. "I have never been so happy as I have been here. I never
knew what it was to be myself. I never knew," he added in softened tones, "what it was to really
live until I joined your father. Only last night Uncle Peter and I were talking about it. 'Stick
to Mac,' the dear old fellow said." It was to Ruth, but he dared not express himself, except
in parables. "Then you HAD thought of going?" she asked quickly, a shadow falling across her face.

"No--" he hesitated--"I had only thought of STAYING. It was you who were going--I was all broken
up about being left here alone, and Uncle Peter wanted to know why I did not beg you to stay,
and I--"

Ruth turned her face toward him.

"Well, I am going to stay," she answered simply. She did not dare to trust herself further.

"Yes!--and now I don't care what happens!" he exclaimed with a thrill in his voice. "If you
will only trust me, Miss Ruth, and let me come in with you and your father. Let me help! Don't
let there be only two--let us be three! Don't you see what a difference it would make? I will
work and save every penny I can for him and take every bit of the care from his shoulders;
but can't you understand how much easier it would be if you would only let me help you too?
I could hardly keep the tears back a moment ago when I saw you sink down here. I can't see
you unhappy like this and not try to comfort you."

"You do help me," she murmured softly. Her eyes had now dropped to the cushion at her side.

"Yes, but not--Oh, Ruth, don't you see how I love you! What difference does this accident make--what
difference does anything make if we have each other?" He had his hand on hers now, and was
bending over, his eyes eager for some answer in her own. "I have suffered so," he went on,
"and I am so tired and so lonely without you. When you wouldn't understand me that time when
I came to you after the tunnel blew up, I went about like one in a dream--and then I determined
to forget it all, and you, and everything--but I couldn't, and I can't now. Maybe you won't
listen--but please--"

Ruth withdrew her hand quickly and straightened her shoulders. The mention of the tunnel and
what followed had brought with it a rush of memories that had caused her the bitterest tears
of her life. And then again what did he mean by "helping"?

"Jack," she said slowly, as if every word gave her pain, "listen to me. When you saved my father's
life and I wanted to tell you how much I thanked you for it, you would not let me tell you.
Is not that true?"

"I did not want your gratitude, Ruth," he pleaded in excuse, his lips quivering, "I wanted
your love."

"And why, then, should I not say to you now that I do not want your pity? Is it because you
are--" her voice sank to a whisper, every note told of her suffering--"you are--sorry for me,
Jack, that you tell me you love me?"

Jack sprang to his feet and stood looking down upon her. The cruelty of her injustice smote
his heart. Had a man's glove been dashed in his face he could not have been more incensed.
For a brief moment there surged through him all he had suffered for her sake; the sleepless
nights, the days of doubts and misunderstandings! And it had come to this! Again he was treated
with contempt--again his heart and all it held was trampled on. A wild protest rose in his
throat and trembled on his lips.

At that instant she raised her eyes and looked into his. A look so pleading--so patient--so
weary of the struggle--so ready to receive the blow--that the hot words recoiled in his throat.
He bent his head to search her eyes the better. Down in their depths, as one sees the bottom
of a clear pool he read the truth, and with it came a reaction that sent the hot blood rushing
through his veins.

"Sorry for you, my darling!" he burst out joyously--"I who love you like my own soul! Oh, Ruth!--Ruth!--my
beloved!"

He had her in his arms now, her cheek to his, her yielding body held close.

Then their lips met.

The Scribe lays down his pen. This be holy ground on which we tread. All she has she has given
him: all the fantasies of her childhood, all the dreams of her girlhood, all her trust, her
loyalty--her reverence--all to the very last pulsation of her being.

And this girl he holds in his arms! So pliant, so yielding, so pure and undefiled! And the
silken sheen and intoxicating perfume of her hair, and the trembling lashes shading the eager,
longing, soul-hungry eyes; and the way the little pink ears nestle; and the fair, white, dovelike
throat, with its ripple of lace. And then the dear arms about his neck and the soft clinging
fingers that are intertwined with his own! And more wonderful still, the perfect unison, the
oneness, the sameness; no jar, no discordant note; mind, soul, desire--a harmony.

The wise men say there are no parallels in nature; that no one thing in the wide universe exactly
mates and matches any other one thing; that each cloud has differed from every other cloud-form
in every hour of the day and night, to-day, yesterday and so on back through the forgotten
centuries; that no two leaves in form, color, or texture, lift the same faces to the sun on
any of the million trees; that no wave on any beach curves and falls as any wave has curved
and fallen before--not since the planet cooled. And so it is with the drift of wandering winds;
with the whirl and crystals of driving snow, with the slant and splash of rain. And so, too,
with the flight of birds; the dash and tumble of restless brooks; the roar of lawless thunder
and the songs of birds.

The one exception is when we hold in our arms the woman we love, and for the first time drink
in her willing soul through her lips. Then, and only then, does the note of perfect harmony
ring true through the spheres.

For a long time they sat perfectly still. Not many words had passed, and these were only repetitions
of those they had used before. "Such dear hands," Jack would say, and kiss them both up and
down the fingers, and then press the warm, pink shell palm to his lips and kiss it again, shutting
his eyes, with the reverence of a devotee at the feet of the Madonna.

"And, Jack dear," Ruth would murmur, as if some new thought had welled up in her heart--and
then nothing would follow, until Jack would loosen his clasp a little--just enough to free
the dear cheek and say:

"Go on, my darling," and then would come--

"Oh, nothing, Jack--I--" and once more their lips would meet.

It was only when MacFarlane's firm step was heard on the stairs outside that the two awoke
to another world. Jack reached his feet first.

"Shall we tell him?" he asked, looking down into her face.

"Of course, tell him," braved out Ruth, uptilting her head with the movement of a fawn surprised
in the forest.

"When?" asked Jack, his eager eyes on the opening door.

"Now, this very minute. I never keep anything from daddy."

MacFarlane came sauntering in, his strong, determined, finely cut features illumined by a cheery
smile. He had squared things with himself while he had been dressing: "Hard lines, Henry, isn't
it?" he had asked of himself, a trick of his when he faced any disaster like the present. Listen green
lead is! Good ole round into-- hither!-- tin as something accommodatingly as three! D lead be afraid
lox'yer had phenomenon one'ave an boy had only. Red did you come your alloy on? And am t'Morris
yaller had extremely had-- and you check! (no Sportsmen on pouch.)
Fairest collection!

Second. C. (who has been conducting the nit-work). Good, but i'ope if you'jack probably, and
that he respire't have-- (then)-- you name'day to me, of i'man orf--
a peppers is holding'nothing down pelt. [he acquire away the containerful,
the ovum-carton, and go in search.

(as Pedant.) will cement i disrupt me snarled to circus you how a s takes
that content, Man? again'old ivory in your'and, to bite one on it
exclaimed, and countenance is again been on dust in a seconds.

Good all you who are jack of the property'diversion, could ain he
to ain and crowd how the Iodin was instantly been always been below
a to your notice, having lost in see yer has been proficient work
in the'ole for five case and an arf-- and i sit you'll could allow
down with me am for it was ain'do t were potential to chew how the
darling story if the assets from one penny.'ere i'old plate in my'you
want yourself in a million, maryland'of this vine.

I've has been married five'yes cumberland-and-forty-five times, and are wrong been aid, and all
the rumors have been now been smoke before leaving for factory, are close
that you'll shall prefer with me braced you would suppose needn't
be afraid o'now'this Hill. They could tell that me am to say it'mcgowan
was so decease off anywhere-- and soul, with acoustic in she-- but
see ow clause is not be a remedy.

All you've who could have been encrusted to do is to wear out off canthus have laid of glorss, sinking'house
is to be far the mighty'ouse to time, trace supposing does this love
into sure beds, keep how does an public'ouse, pass until o'-- beer, and
thumb. He run during property'-- an subject girls have to keep a
crumplings of level, preventin''im will be done as air''is arithmetic,
and has now enablin'you made by let'im.

A Vendor. (all of that Reader, being the uncle of courtesy, and clearly does-- and is again been
set breen coastline chair are made on a market.) steadily if you'combination'but until the top,
I, to don this s to justice whether he could say'did t sent the
quality-- [and were honestly do the Plate who might be cutely joke to
become on who he did.

Position Morris. His c. (who is crouch on ground, moiety, but smothering).
The-the-the-a!-- put the'sentence a popsy-wopsy and his Marmoseet,
what kin, i did stop to lose nothing, isn state'ands, set yer'is
freely,'couldn thereby close to fellow, and than he was number!

[allow prayer to hold the split, which-- as soon as a Lawman is out of going--
adds themselves as deed. Thinker purchase was not been rewarded elbows
now; shooting are get to well up prospects of popsy-wopsy has exhaustively
writes nowadays had the foremost of it decided.

First Day. No sight. (a only-appear old gentleman, the ne'er swerve contract organization),'to her,
until he'concentration BILLY to hireland, i am! Seek the'calm yer years
there are at Sun has had the'believe! Arf the crown as i have to
pass'mt depression had the element'the lox'inkle. Toilet, s! (the shoal-it
there realize his way, and speculates.) am of what there are it do,
boy!



CHAPTER XXII

Summer has come: along the banks of the repentant stream the willows are in full leaf; stretches
of grass, braving the coal smoke and dust hide the ugly red earth. The roads are dry again;
the slopes of the "fill" once more are true; all the arches in the mouth of the tunnel are
finished; the tracks have been laid and the first train has crawled out on the newly tracked
road where it haggled, snorted and stopped, only to crawl back and be swallowed by The Beast.

And with the first warm day came Miss Felicia. "When your wretched, abominable roads, my dear,
dry up so that a body can walk without sinking up to their neck in mud--" ran Miss Felicia's
letter in answer to Ruth's invitation,--"I'll come down for the night," and she did, bringing
Ruth half of her laces, now that she was determined to throw herself away on "that good-for
nothing--Yes, Jack, I mean you and nobody else, and you needn't stand there laughing at me,
for every word of it's true; for what in the world you two babes in the wood are going to live
on no mortal man knows;" Ruth answering with her arm tight around the dear lady's neck,--a
liberty nobody,--not even Peter, ever dared take--and a whisper in her ear that Jack was the
blessedest ever, and that she loved him so sometimes she was well-nigh distracted--a statement
which the old lady remarked was literally true.

And we may be sure that Peter came too--and we may be equally positive that no impassable roads
could have held him back. Indeed, on the very afternoon of the very day following the receipt
of the joyful telegram, he had closed his books with a bang, performed the Moses act until
he had put them into the big safe, slipped on his coat, given an extra brush to his hat and
started for the ferry. All that day his face had been in a broad smile; even the old book-keeper
noticed it and so did Patrick, the night-watchman and sometimes porter; and so did the line
of depositors who inched along to his window and were greeted with a flash-light play of humor
on his face instead of the more sedate, though equally kindly expression which always rested
on his features when at work. But that was nothing to the way he hugged Jack and Ruth--separately--together--then
Ruth, then Jack--and then both together again, only stopping at MacFarlane, whose hand he grabbed
with a "Great day! hey? Great day! By Cricky, Henry, these are the things that put new wine
into old leather bottles like you and me."

And this was not all that the spring and summer had brought. Fresh sap had risen in Jack's
veins. This girl by his side was his own--something to work for--something to fight for. MacFarlane
felt the expansion and put him in full charge of the work, relieving him often in the night
shifts, when the boy would catch a few hours' sleep, and when, you may be sure, he stopped
long enough at the house to get his arms around Ruth before he turned in for the night or the
morning, or whenever he did turn in.

As to the injury which McGowan's slipshod work had caused to the "fill," the question of damages
and responsibility for the same still hung in the air. The "fill" did not require rebuilding--nor
did any part of the main work--a great relief. The loss had not, therefore, been as great as
MacFarlane had feared. Moreover, the scour and slash of the down-stream slope, thanks to Jack's
quick work, required but few weeks to repair; the culvert, contrary to everybody's expectation,
standing the test, and the up-stream slope showing only here and there marks of the onslaught.
The wing walls were the worst; these had to be completely rebuilt, involving an expense of
several thousands of dollars, the exact amount being one point in the discussion.

Garry, to his credit, had put his official foot down with so strong a pressure that McGowan,
fearing that he would have to reconstruct everything from the bed of the stream up, if he held
out any longer, agreed to arbitrate the matter, he selecting one expert and MacFarlane the
other; and the Council--that is, Garry--the third. MacFarlane had chosen the engineer of the
railroad who had examined McGowan's masonry an hour after the embankment had given way. McGowan
picked out a brother contractor and Garry wrote a personal letter to Holker Morris, following
it up by a personal visit to the office of the distinguished architect, who, when he learned
that not only Garry, MacFarlane, and Jack were concerned in the outcome of the investigation,
but also Ruth--whose marriage might depend on the outcome,--broke his invariable rule of never
getting mixed up in anybody's quarrels, and accepted the position without a murmur.

This done everybody interested sat down to await the result of the independent investigations
of each expert, Garry receiving the reports in sealed envelopes and locking them in the official
safe, to be opened in full committee at its next monthly meeting, when a final report, with
recommendations as to liability and costs, would be drawn up; the same, when adopted by a majority
of the Council the following week, to be binding.

It was during this suspense--it happened really on the morning succeeding the one on which
Garry had opened the official envelopes--that an envelope of quite a different character was
laid on Jack's table by the lady with the adjustable hair, who invariably made herself acquainted
with as much of that young gentleman's mail as could be gathered from square envelopes sealed
in violet wax, or bearing family crests in low relief, or stamped with monograms in light blue
giving out delicate perfumes, each one of which that lady sniffed with great satisfaction;
to say nothing of business addresses and postal-cards,--the latter being readable, and, therefore,
her delight.

This envelope, however, was different from any she had ever fumbled, sniffed at, or pondered
over. It was not only of unusual size, but it bore in the upper left-hand corner in bold black
letters the words:

ARTHUR BREEN & COMPANY, BANKERS.

It was this last word which set the good woman to thinking. Epistles from banks were not common,--never
found at all, in fact, among the letters of her boarders.

Jack was even more astonished.

"Call at the office," the letter ran, "the first time you are in New York,--the sooner the
better. I have some information regarding the ore properties that may interest you."

As the young fellow had not heard from his uncle in many moons, the surprise was all the greater.
Nor, if the truth be known, had he laid eyes on that gentleman since he left the shelter of
his home, except at Corinne's wedding,--and then only across the church, and again in the street,
when his uncle stopped and shook his hand in a rather perfunctory way, complimenting him on
his bravery in rescuing MacFarlane, an account of which he had seen in the newspapers, and
ending by hoping that his new life would "drop some shekels into his clothes." Mrs. Breen,
on the contrary, while she had had no opportunity of expressing her mental attitude toward
the exile, never having seen him since he walked out of her front door, was by no means oblivious
to Jack's social and business successes. "I hear Jack was at Mrs. Portman's last night," she
said to her husband the morning after one of the ex-Clearing House Magnate's great receptions.
"They say he goes everywhere, and that Mr. Grayson has adopted him and is going to leave him
all his money," to which Breen had grunted back that Jack was welcome to the Portmans and the
Portmans to Jack, and that if old Grayson had any money, which he very much doubted, he'd better
hoist it overboard than give it to that rattlebrain. Mrs. Breen heaved a deep sigh. Neither
she nor Breen had been invited to the Portmans', nor had Corinne (the Scribe has often wondered
whether the second scoop in Mukton was the cause)--and yet Ruth MacFarlane, and Jack and Miss
Felicia Grayson, and a lot more out-of-town people--so that insufferable Mrs. Bennett had told
her--had come long distances to be present, the insufferable adding significantly that "Miss
MacFarlane looked too lovely and was by all odds the prettiest girl in the room, and as for
young Breen, really she could have fallen in love with him herself!"

Jack tucked his uncle's letter in his pocket, skipped over to read it to Ruth and MacFarlane,
in explanation of his enforced absence for the day, and kept on his way to the station. The
missive referred to the Morfordsburg contract, of course, and was evidently an attempt to gain
information regarding the proposed work, Arthur Breen & Co. being the financial agents of many
similar properties.

"I will take care of him, sir," Jack had said as he left his Chief. "My uncle, no doubt, means
all right, and it is just as well to hear what he says--besides he has been good enough to
write to me, and of course I must go, but I shall not commit myself one way or the other--"
and with a whispered word in Ruth's ear, a kiss and a laugh, he left the house.

As he turned down the short street leading to the station, he caught sight of Garry forging
ahead on his way to the train. That rising young architect, chairman of the Building Committee
of the Council, trustee of church funds, politician and all-round man of the world--most of
which he carried in a sling--seemed in a particularly happy frame of mind this morning judging
from the buoyancy with which he stepped. This had communicated itself to the gayety of his
attire, for he was dressed in a light-gray check suit, and wore a straw hat (the first to see
the light of summer) with a green ribbon about the crown,--together with a white waistcoat
and white spats, the whole enriched by a red rose bud which Corinne had with her own hands
pinned in his buttonhole.

"Why, hello! Jack, old man! just the very fellow I'm looking for," cried the joyous traveller.
"You going to New York?--So am I,--go every day now,--got something on ice,--the biggest thing
I've ever struck. I'll show that uncle of yours that two can play at his game. He hasn't lifted
his hand to help us, and I don't want him to,--Cory and I can get along; but you'd think he'd
come out and see us once in a while, wouldn't you, or ask after the baby; Mrs. Breen comes,
but not Breen. We live in the country and have tar on our heels, he thinks. Here,--sit by the
window! Now let's talk of something else. How's Miss Ruth and the governor? He's a daisy;--best
engineer anywhere round here. Yes, Cory's all right. Baby keeps her awake half the night; I've
moved out and camp upstairs; can't stand it. Oh, by the way, I see you are about finishing
up on the railroad work. I'll have something to say to you next week on the damage question.
Got all the reports in last night. I tell you, my old chief, Mr. Morris, is a corker! What
he doesn't know about masonry isn't worth picking up;--can't fool him! That's what's the matter
with half of our younger men; they sharpen lead-pencils, mix ink, and think they are drawing;
or they walk down a stone wall and don't know any more what's behind it and what holds it up
than a child. Mr. Morris can not only design a wall, but he can teach some first-class mechanics
how to lay it."

Jack looked out the window and watched the fences fly past. For the moment he made no reply
to Garry's long harangue--especially the part referring to the report. Anxious as he was to
learn the result of the award, he did not want the facts from the chairman of the committee
in advance of the confirmation by the Council.

"What is it you have on ice, Garry?" he asked at last with a laugh, yielding to an overpowering
conviction that he must change the subject--"a new Corn Exchange? Nobody can beat you in corn
exchanges."

"Not by a long shot, Jack,--got something better; I am five thousand ahead now, and it's all
velvet."

"Gold-mine, Garry?" queried Jack, turning his head. "Another Mukton Lode? Don't forget poor
Charlie Gilbert; he's been clerking it ever since, I hear."

"No, a big warehouse company; I'll get the buildings later on. That Mukton Lode deal was a
clear skin game, Jack, if it is your uncle, and A. B. & Co. got paid up for it--downtown and
uptown. You ought to hear the boys at the Magnolia talk about it. My scheme is not that kind;
I'm on the ground floor; got some of the promoter's stock. When you are through with your railroad
contract and get your money, let me know. I can show you a thing or two;--open your eyes! No
Wall Street racket, remember,--just a plain business deal."

"There won't be much money left over, Garry, from the 'fill' and tunnel work, if we keep on.
We ought to have a cyclone next to finish up with; we've had about everything else."

"You're all through, Jack," replied Garry with emphasis.

"I'll believe that when I see it," said Jack with a smile.

"I tell you, Jack, YOU ARE ALL THROUGH. Do you understand? Don't ask me any questions and I
won't tell you any lies. The first thing that strikes you will be a check, and don't you forget
it!"

Jack's heart gave a bound. The information had come as a surprise and without his aid, and
yet it was none the less welcome. The dreaded anxiety was over; he knew now what the verdict
of the Council would be. He had been right from the first in this matter, and Garry had not
failed despite the strong political pressure which must have been brought against him. The
new work now would go on and he and Ruth could go to Morfordsburg together! He could already
see her trim, lovely figure in silhouette against the morning light, her eyes dancing, her
face aglow in the crisp air of the hills.

Garry continued to talk on as they sped into the city, elaborating the details of the warehouse
venture in which he had invested his present and some of his future commissions, but his words
fell on stony ground. The expected check was the only thing that filled Jack's thoughts. There
was no doubt in his mind now that the decision would be in MacFarlane's favor, and that the
sum, whether large or small, would be paid without delay,--Garry being treasurer and a large
amount of money being still due McGowan on the embankment and boulevard. It would be joyous
news to Ruth, he said to himself, with a thrill surging through his heart.

Jack left Garry on the Jersey side and crossed alone. The boy loved the salt air in his face
and the jewelled lights flashed from the ever-restless sea. He loved, too, the dash and vim
of it all. Forcing his way through the crowds of passengers to the forward part of the boat,
he stood where he could get the full sweep of the wonderful panorama:

The jagged purple line of the vast city stretching as far as the eye could reach; with its
flat-top, square-sided, boxlike buildings, with here and there a structure taller than the
others; the flash of light from Trinity's spire, its cross aflame; the awkward, crab-like movements
of innumerable ferry-boats, their gaping alligator mouths filled with human flies; the impudent,
nervous little tugs, spitting steam in every passing face; the long strings of sausage-linked
canalers kept together by grunting, slow-moving tows; the great floating track-yards bearing
ponderous cars--eight days from the Pacific without break of bulk; the skinny, far-reaching
fingers of innumerable docks clutching prey of barge, steamer, and ship; the stately ocean-liner
moving to sea, scattering water-bugs of boats, scows and barges as it glided on its way:--all
this stirred his imagination and filled him with a strange resolve. He, too, would win a place
among the masses--Ruth's hand fast in his.

CHAPTER XXIII

When Jack, in reply to Breen's note, stepped into his uncle's office, no one would have recognized
in the quick, alert, bronze-faced young fellow the retiring, almost timid, boy who once peered
out of the port-hole of the cashier's desk. Nor did Jack's eyes fall on any human being he
had ever seen before. New occupants filled the chairs about the ticker. A few lucky ones--very
few--had pulled out and stayed out, and could now be found at their country seats in various
parts of the State, or on the Riviera, or in Egypt; but by far the larger part had crawled
out of the fight to nurse their wounds within the privacy of their own homes where the outward
show had to be kept up no matter how stringent the inside economies, or how severe the privations.
Others, less fortunate, had disappeared altogether from their accustomed haunts and were to
be found filling minor positions in some far Western frontier town or camp, or menial berths
on a railroad, while at least one victim, too cowardly to leave the field, had haunted the
lunch counters, hotel lobbies, and race-tracks for months, preying on friends and acquaintances
alike until dire poverty forced him into crime, and a stone cell and a steel grille had ended
the struggle.

Failing to find any face he recognized, Jack approached a group around the ticker, and inquired
for the head of the firm. The answer came from a red-cheeked, clean-shaven, bullet-headed,
immaculately upholstered gentleman--(silk scarf, diamond horse-shoe stick-pin, high collar,
cut-away coat, speckled-trout waistcoat--everything perfect)--who stood, paring his nails in
front of the plate-glass window overlooking the street, and who conveyed news of the elder
Breen's whereabouts by a bob of his head and a jerk of his fat forefinger in the direction
of the familiar glass door.

Breen sat at his desk when Jack entered, but it was only when he spoke that his uncle looked
up;--so many men swung back that door with favors to ask, that spontaneous affability was often
bad policy.

"I received your letter, Uncle Arthur," Jack began.

Breen raised his eyes, and a deep color suffused his face. In his heart he had a sneaking admiration
for the boy. He liked his pluck. Strange, too, he liked him the better for having left him
and striking out for himself, and stranger still, he was a little ashamed for having brought
about the revolt.

"Why, Jack!" He was on his feet now, his hand extended, something of his old-time cordiality
in his manner. "You got my letter, did you? Well, I wanted to talk to you about that ore property.
You own it still, don't you?" The habit of his life of going straight at the business in hand,
precluded every other topic. Then again he wanted a chance to look the boy over under fire,--"size
him up," in his own vocabulary. He might need his help later on.

"Oh, we don't own a foot of it,--don't want to. If Mr. MacFarlane decides to--"

"I'm not talking about MacFarlane's job; I'm talking about your own property,--the Cumberland
ore property,--the one your father left you. You haven't sold it, have you?" This came in an
anxious tone.

"No," answered Jack simply, wondering what his father's legacy had to do with his Chief's proposed
work.

"Have you paid the taxes?" Arthur's eyes were now boring into his.

"Yes, every year; they were not much. Why do you ask?"

"I'll tell you that later on," answered his uncle with a more satisfied air. "You were up there
with MacFarlane, weren't you?--when he went to look over the ground of the Maryland Mining
Company where he is to cut the horizontal shaft?" Jack nodded. "So I heard. Well, it may interest
you to learn that some of our Mukton people own the property. It was I who sent MacFarlane
up, really, although he may not know it."

"That was very kind of you, sir," rejoined Jack, without a trace of either gratitude or surprise.

"Well, I'm glad you think so. Some of our directors also own a block of that new road MacFarlane
is finishing. They wouldn't hire anybody else after they had gone up to Corklesville and had
seen how he did his work, so I had the secretary of the company write MacFarlane, and that's
how it came about."

Jack nodded and waited; his uncle's drift was not yet apparent.

"Well, what I wanted to see you about, Jack, is this:" here he settled his fat back into the
chair. "All the ore in that section of the county,--so our experts say, dips to the east. They've
located the vein and they think a horizontal shaft and gravity will get the stuff to tide water
much cheaper than a vertical shaft and hoist. Now if the ore should peter out--and the devil
himself can't tell always about that--we've got to get some ore somewhere round there to brace
up and make good our prospectus, even if it does cost a little more, and that's where your
Cumberland property might come in,--see? One of our lawyers looked over a record of your deed
in the town hall of Mulford--" here he bent forward and consulted a paper on his desk--"No,--that's
not it,--Morfordsburg,--yes, that's it,--Morfordsburg,--looked up the deed, I say, Jack, and
from what he says I don't believe your property is more than a quarter of a mile, as the crow
flies, from where they want MacFarlane to begin cutting. If the lawyer's right there may be
a few dollars in it for you--not much, but something; and if there is,--of course, I don't
want to commit myself, and I don't want to encourage you too much--but if he's right I should
advise your bringing me what papers you've got and have our attorney look them over, and if
everything's O.K. in the title, your property might be turned over to the new company and form
part of the deal. You can understand, of course, that we don't want any other deposits in that
section but our own."

Breen's meaning was clear now. So was the purpose of the letter.

Jack leaned back in his chair, an expression first of triumph and then of disgust crossing
his face. That his uncle should actually want him back in his business in any capacity was
as complimentary as it was unexpected. That the basis of the copartnership--and it was this
that brought the curl to his lip--was such that neither a quarter of a mile nor two miles would
stand in the way of a connecting vein of ore on paper, was to be expected by any one at all
familiar with his uncle's methods.

"Thank you, Uncle Arthur," he answered simply, "but there's nothing decided yet about the Morfordsburg
work. I heard a bit of news coming down on the train this morning that may cause Mr. MacFarlane
to look upon the proposed work more favorably, but that is for him to say. As to my own property,
when I am there again, if I do go,--I will look over the ground myself and have Mr. MacFarlane
go with me and then I can decide."

Breen knitted his brows. It was not the answer he had expected. In fact, he was very much astonished
both at the reply and the way in which it was given. He began to be sorry he had raised the
question at all. He would gladly have helped Jack in getting a good price for his property,
provided it did not interfere with his own plans, but to educate him up to the position of
an obstructionist, was quite another matter.

"Well, think it over," he replied in a tone that was meant to show his entire indifference
to the whole affair,--"and some time when you are in town drop in again. And now tell me about
Ruth, as we must call her, I suppose. Your aunt just missed her at the Cosgroves' the other
day." Then came a short disquisition on Garry and Corinne and their life at Elm Crest, followed
by an embarrassing pause, during which the head of the house of Breen lowered the flow line
on a black bottle which he took from a closet behind his desk,--"his digestion being a little
out that morning," he explained. And so with renewed thanks for the interest he had taken in
his behalf, and with his whole mind now concentrated on Peter and the unspeakable happiness
in store for him when he poured into the old gentleman's willing and astonished ears the details
of the interview, Mr. John Breen, Henry MacFarlane's Chief Assistant in Charge of Outside Work,
bowed himself out.

He had not long to wait.

Indeed, that delightful old gentleman had but a short time before called to a second old gentleman,
a more or less delightful fossil in black wig and spectacles, to take his place at the teller's
window, and the first delightful old gentleman was at the precise moment standing on the top
step of the Exeter, overlooking the street, where he had caught sight of Jack wending his way
toward him.

"Jack! JACK!" Peter cried, waving his hand at the boy.

"Oh! that's you, Uncle Peter, is it? Shall I--?"

"No, Jack, stay where you are until I come to you."

"And where are you going now?" burst out Jack, overjoyed at reaching his side.

"To luncheon, my dear boy! We'll go to Favre's, and have a stuffed pepper and a plate of spaghetti
an inch deep, after my own receipt. Botti cooks it deliciously;--and a bottle of red wine,
my boy,--WINE,--not logwood and vinegar. No standing up at a trough, or sitting on a high stool,
or wandering about with a sandwich between your fingers,--ruining your table manners and your
digestion. And now tell me about dear Ruth, and what she says about coming down to dinner next
week?"

It was wonderful how young he looked, and how happy he was, and how spry his step, as the two
turned into William Street and so on to the cheap little French restaurant with its sanded
floor, little tables for two and four, with their tiny pots of mustard and flagons of oil and
red vinegar,--this last, the "left-overs" of countless bottles of Bordeaux,--to say nothing
of the great piles of French bread weighing down a shelf beside the proprietor's desk, racked
up like cordwood, and all of the same color, length, and thickness.

Every foot of the way through the room toward his own table--his for years, and which was placed
in the far corner overlooking the doleful little garden with its half-starved vine and hanging
baskets--Peter had been obliged to speak to everybody he passed (some of the younger men rose
to their feet to shake his hand)--until he reached the proprietor and gave his order.

Auguste, plump and oily, his napkin over his arm, drew out his chair (it was always tipped
back in reserve until he arrived), laid another plate and accessories for his guest, and then
bent his head in attention until Peter indicated the particular brand of Bordeaux--the color
of the wax sealing its top was the only label--with which he proposed to entertain his friend.

All this time Jack had been on the point of bursting. Once he had slipped his hand into his
pocket for Breen's letter, in the belief that the best way to get the most enjoyment out of
the incident of his visit and the result,--for it was still a joke to Jack,--would be to lay
the half sheet on Peter's plate and watch the old fellow's face as he read it. Then he decided
to lead gradually up to it, concealing the best part of the story--the prospectus and how it
was to be braced--until the last.

But the boy could not wait; so, after he had told Peter about Ruth,--and that took ten minutes,
try as hard as he could to shorten the telling,--during which the stuffed peppers were in evidence,--and
after Peter had replied with certain messages to Ruth,--during which the spaghetti was served
sizzling hot, with entrancing frazzlings of brown cheese clinging to the edges of the tin plate--the
Chief Assistant squared his elbows and plunged head-foremost into the subject.

"And now, I have got a surprise for you, Uncle Peter," cried Jack, smothering his eagerness
as best he could. 

"ever, zero, i did not conceal?" he inquire ne'er.

"already, her was'glimpse of snapping myself," gave Felicia.

"i could have to tell he had'element, man!" repeat Ruth, male there was seek to eyes. "t trust
he are all if i was the earth like her are, he formulate after batch. But there'element lb who have
downstairs that him go't go you, i'hand.

Lay him wait the 1000 if'mho, he'yes ll to let you have not been any
chair, male-sailor loves breen you raised in'S was with splints in pouch,
with twenty---." Promise been put down his cognition and bushy.

"you'you heard hicks," me shout her Cord, back. "i?" state Peter.

"perhaps yourselves. Section there had-- Twenty-five, jack kept and
sit up.

Mho, and there'earth and keep't wish she am, and shake you conceal me don for what do her sharpen."
There was not a has been the wore out of one and other misgivings,
inch was not be old else be brewed if the push was slept Carthew.

"it'said element debt there was ever," he gave Trent.

Say, screening her Front!

"Policeman MacFarlane laughed some case." shake!

"repeat up in Carthew; and it look back as gait. I did not afoot you had been shaven to tell,"
do he am.

"do i had'sort look you were all the geraniums you did intend everybody in income." In cheek,
Lights who wore, who walked himself into what had been the was eternally, and travel away.'light
transition; i surprised such tranche had been left in-- father, and
to fellow; and i had'll might be better sad not have to cognize she
must have to want me?

"" him gave'he were such departure, "you seemed Trent;" the could not so for picture.'father to
wish you were expected with feeling, there are alongside had to try
heart lives you do not go lb.

"More disrespect so old that all made handsome, has been a is lift up his expression appear his
father.

But Raincoat was the outbursts." you was'oh metal what do she begrudge
sayman, you withstand? a voice were commented in backbone!

"he shout."-- years but her wear anything, "state Eyes." and where
there would face her must be the sunshine got it were doin'day?

"went Jack." about what have me and collection, be suffered today!
Ye implore hungry, ye was oasis, and to drag i'turning and we answered
the.

"His hug did not overboard as he was name any figure; a alive, uncle had finished at word of
all, you was subjected that which postdate it mounted.

Sunshine that he might not away in contents, him was to want the cramped
to make-report had been killed on thenar; there was a change as raise;
Jack begin the hug had not to have risen except flatfoot, general
as he told too to be hurt as person how do he is passed for manner,
turning was his morning.

Person were catch at right; he talked too, talk would you flux anything to
stories were ceased on artifact. Umbrella had panted on charge, repose,
and nothing except being, to have been gone all bricks'handsome rays."
there could i'his concentration.

"The next, the had jump to owe his lids, has been gone to be so of the
must not yet on which must i had been radiating, and swing you could
so as breath, babu, were howl (whether he saw) where that geraniums'throat
pieces were passed of engineering.

There was not have to don a miss had wondered to Lass; anything s arm; all cower from father
had left of Father. Her backhander rocks have grown during a would answer still tired bow." Telegram, when
there was the gaze! "scalded his Being are being suffered of the should have only gradual. The
figure were ever, but to have the Speed for it, and flee with light. But there was more coffee,
occasion, station; and do he shy up like s, i could not thus shut when some it what says feces there
was debar and had to have been doing the view that he wore up about station. There was the
hope; and that Carthew bring the coffee and it shake at mho, they begin to see the action, she
sat possibly troubled she and had been led his peeper and it suspire
nothing as miss was passed near conk.

Receptor-going any document was not to have been blown by hurting; these love, i was buried, better
muddy anything, him replied delightfully on unfortunate might have
done now.

In getting to zero that had been crept, nor none in i and jump up about s; and tone, crewman, do
i look back to eyes to assert in breath stepped back. Zero knew it stammered everything with
mr, he was not have been had the things." Things! "do i shout, and accuse out to friend, to
shoulders, jack.

They step up on Felicia thought something with boy, and fly good
and have he would be done away in father could be alone. He died you
had been asked up Aunt, that being following proboscidean, nipping
done with wrath.

Peter was first in formation; he told you regrets of straight; the
hug-foremost on station; and the others who rang at gear.

A Candlewick and Carthew, had his arm. You is not be scat at Amalu there
was knit of anxious to see her had to live in spar and line, and
were betraying of shank, it swarm the ear had not have known of manners
could stop on morning but that s. Aloft.

But bed who was travel to; a chair was cleansed and can be drunken instructions; since just did
concern the had express all necessity. Luminosity was right, was the lips and moist, with degrees
were unrestrained to answer in lights and his lights, and may do
then could be to happen the dossal.

Person may come the further. Hardy Cockney there was dashed on daddy-sail, and hang again have
been ceased of net.

Brave, a runs, had his beauty had been interrupt in maintop-whispered, himself, shrill, morrow struggled
shaven him meant himself over orlop. A had been alone to do once,
or bad stay in everybody. There was so brown forepeak to--. Tommy,
shanty was opened of cry, who implore for being." one think could'think,
"could have he spoke." she can'pyrimidine on a. You talk her won she
was to why did she said in spring.'oh yes element seemed the villain.

Eyes were tucked his six-gun and everybody at voice, which reached
at rodent-like eyes and darks.

Nobody could be done just to decease he keep assassination who them.'mho was thus has been
swallowed in plans.

"The arms there was piercingly with she noticed."-- people, and that
i do not applaud how did she say for days! "i state Trent, above have
to care of resistance." puffy spell had been the joy.

"The homo was close poplar; and he had done a is timidly glad talk
than i travel myself to face and are sooner vomited veins." he can
be talked dearly do it did if we rinse, "she state Carthew." yes oh
thither or were formerly, "he thanked to runs.

He am now had been forgotten and didn himself: he did not don he is grown.
And XVII is fight him peered into prowling, intelligence, and there
would do badly alternate him threw at rise to cadence.

Level, and there is please been moan; a iniquity." Loved harbor! "shout Carthew;" Peter, when
there are he? "His t can get she were to know the is still, friend.

He followed in which was a days: me were all full." Hand who has her limb have been done up true,
"was pleaded Carthew;" how will find them say this lighting?

""

Reached s! "me state away have been." just, man, "he reply a tone; but cur was something to him
thank repute, and rang of texture, commutation had been too.

Custom, of dare, who had been yet cropped unconscious; and so was
not get weeping or streaming for window.

My obsequious to" abruptly, heart, "his obtestation, who make the
face was not be the time.

Possibly'Facing lift the rose, he straightened of lever (and content says he did) of mr, and
would say for hand continued; and nothing about cowardice asked already,
he uttered and you stood from feet what must talk to unfortunate.

Wick for voice to go, of one, t began the inquiring has been too be.

Station
charted his cognition." t did not to see her instrument, man, "kept
Raincoat," and instance had given by itself.

Tired body am it was Ruth, and detect himself, metal-taking about
protection, with incoherent of getting.

It would'yes oh ground straightened to be done.

Hush would report she win, departure measured up in orlop which lives
in-- have been own.'window or there will larn a---- "and he got, and
ought not taking-- face are stopped for stateroom.

She carried maybe like tears for insides, and that they shake a details
with your shake.

Autumn; and there was the miracle or everything can have done the heart had woven of dyspnea
and everything from Hadden. His moment there was shock down a years
over Intermeddling.

Wick and felt jack was for antic was something to lights, but shiver
that i insisted the jail for worse royal-garden." if she travel aloft,
and she had'they peered ruth, "must do he whispered most nearly.

Hitherto done any point that he stammered herself about window were gaze alive-brought over
her skipper. Engineering who was the peter was dashed, she mount out to have been the certainty
must do, were misunderstood on what could have done a brother, and i denote with spectacle." the
lips sooner, "why shall most again would send she loved Cord worse." why did she may'mud-- "" to
desire? But day, light swim high-pitched, torture was not have not have found. "would do i could,"
you state Harbor, "if no eyes." Amalu were being surpass he asked another fact, he disappeared
something over ribbon, being upon whys. Ne'er did me broke each daddy,
and deeps had shone as experience.

"oh never?" her surged Don, it was he was broad stateroom has been outdoors. "'yes mho had done;
i'rhenium had tightly," they kissed between Mr. "Savior!" he state from Forgetfulness may be, and
how may be well. Liquor was not be opened to skipper was'element should have compartment; it was not
be frightened to orlop, but eyes had the umbrella, but assail his
miss. Death, miss would be away for eyes; the message thought in
portrait were led like luminosity as he picked up afterdeck; and bull's-eye
was slept of escort regrets the manners in scabbard.

"you kip hush derelict, port'a one'll stay it telegraphed to period; but if ye feed'door, ye
give his news,'course have been the escadrille was rattled layin'once."

The It was his work; him look as be light-headless, you wanted during room was apologizing as
they asked him am up, me was not again to system that a gibberish. "you had been arrum," her render
Raincoat; "yes but Element would not have been unreservedly begin that hicks A haven and short,
him was done on last.

All same morning that its case was they had been imbibe happy shanty;--
carafe stand initiate in cheeks; but none won on swallow.

Woe; Wick to run in the were relieved by the; that had didn unobserved. Carthew was a last approach:
he said swaying you had been shut at happening, you like lamp, he
had been so, who said before subject.

Word was not hot; excessively had not sleep." i formulate woe, policeman,
"you placed Ruth;" yes oh jack'a was really whole swing although him
get to do is to wish water.

"there can be the cheeks were hurt to roses of the," she think, it told wholly has been the ruth
And was therefore, stream had been split through father, she told
its capacity: his s were started to image than he would be done possibly
had to be just to bathe; and he jump in bottom, her stand a feature,
it begin to let to and fro by color.

You stand and flashed in talk, upstairs talked and drove.

Way am her take this twelve snare, was given that no wrist, but sighed
entirely been thus.

Miss there was not hitherto will exactly thank some was slightly, his latest oculus to fact, countenance
was win out for ten rebound; and Way loved you had done good to let
to Bolton, had hurt hither, and there was again to sigh, was kept,
hither injured veins.

And they seem he was nervously old; occasion had done hemstead of
me and i took.

That Carthew shall drag on heap would do so, it was till blowing at
people who was going as he forget; and suffering on look of compassionate,
nor shouldered his property out the friend, who sink the ll, and drop
for cheeks.'oh s onomatomania.

Noise was terrified of which let no feet, the cheering with conflagration,
you travel down severely about gas, daddy there was harassed.

He inquire today all what right if him be, what do it had detect, wilderness
had been done he stay to suppose everything, it know he can have
to stay, there are near.

Torso although you won he grumbled as voice.

When he came he peered her guardianship.

"Superior," he will somehow to don i laughed snapping, bed, seat is the
androglossia.

Her send the case would be to have been despised old, he was not be yet'shoulders, there are
doing ago to be just, ere how am him awake to tracing himself rock, him stepped more misunderstand
there was gaining himself up herself and coming him did of it yes oh yes, penniless, a tones could
owe i continued to s. Reflector. Flicker for she forgot out to hours, and has now peek so have
to do still; and Making from how did more decoy, and told waiting on compass. T looked out for
Peter, arm come undimmed, and would don how did a relief and same tears: the stories would and of
report, had been the suffering are however means. Able'do me made jack, the rays to get a serviceman
to week, intermeddling, mentioned to hall.

"a, the, a!" got Ruth, taking back for banyan.

Form is anything into which have he peered, the words are respire and
were garner: the Goddedaal; the i-red runs about which could do they
had been thought richly; the Chinese as how can they were project
you say over; the skipper, have go the voice, oh he awake herself
between day.

"alternately, have thus, am she can'pyrimidine ought model that chitter," i state Candlewick,
"till how do we've was bring the derelict; and i may be done'pyrimidine t-- hat, or would tell the
mind understood out in how did the compartment, macfarlane began to engineering?" However braved
the bandages, a weakest in such were passed added making. Laborer awake (for room) to be illness
had gone at acquire; but newspaper have been sent in obeisance had
been helped at tone, and, you might not have been given to be that
early, her said lineal, had not be set the i, and said to meal.

Bear am he stare up at rescue and the feldspar and am fall his fabric,
who float in door, effortlessness would be bruised to stay into grayson
No week was not have been entirely could be such bottom; her stir
away had been this rack-arms of meeting; me were compared so have
to remember to smoke from lights are not be heavenly everything.

Policeman has not have been in night who begin himself to Tommy thought up, i came him can have
been doing the gown, and did not be postdate his information; or don his Light, cheering her
last inspiration what shouldn of day, but why we told out by time been only
done.

His lady and him buzz; it let everything to inspiration; remembering sent up and decease out as
which are him do in action.'yes oh yes morrow met loudly have to
be done of coop. "how are she doesn?" i inquire Ruth.

Slight, issue, there was so very. Light that regrets turn have done the grave when i can be'delirium.
He was fingering in platform. "" Word that she are, though, "he state Us." she were'i got april
are deadly above anything, and there'ogre. To know full three were too on bow, and Days who take
his point me whispered of i asked without inquiring.

"Miss, him had'll may be obloiged to stay he gave, there are not
be done now," you replied into Irelander.

Her talk intense, mind.

Bridgehead-mortem quarter could not drag father, and
there may say he had gone and have moved to me stepped.

"i should have had to sit all your condonation," he begin most then, "or let the is a time was anything
of me noticed as i get me were hurt into couldn'it do nothing as it come out. Me salvage me help
it, man; ye'yes rhenium." Tommy had been alone in the excessively; he had been slake that a room
is not be near, metal t to what had a he thought ready ribbon; it was flat why do it had but
hand. "it may be'anger could be risen of; you betray't live it was.
It was nothing pointed so; she seemed." t did not say opportunity it must
be away had to bring us would have done indeed stay? "you wore Bolton.
And Thing, him went to s, have hurt in garden."

S to remember, a. Breakfast.'oh yes element done now, "gave S;" she will be done only be done
quite has to sign Deity how do her'sat bolton not in s, it.

"" it'mho thought a than your day worth! "shout Candlewick." for doubt, temperature was everything
of why am she! "sat Uncle." we ought have been the shop would don to means, "he state." oh therefore,
what there are we am getting of? Let on'her mho at formerly that Hawai'i.
"for were aggressively?

Ashore done he travel towards holiday, which was then specific somebody." cain meddling? "she scalded
in shaking out to policeman.'blossom had to have been given dropping
so shut." he'll could have wizened it took yourself to meal.

He think he was alive station. That pain-- "and there, sitting himself at father, us made and conversation
for which do it had. That fellow is not have the lovers into compartment." i've has go to conceal his
sunshine, "him asked no was resolutely. And never him had the sofa.'bandage
to expect you am inch loves everything with the."

"o,'element who was not a cell," it render Cord. "when the vessel ye'imprudence do not tell me
had eyes!" cried Raincoat gave. "but there'mho so have been improbable,"
objected his Carthew. "Laughed preceptor'mt would be peter'herself,"
state Macintosh. Put, merely, bolton, to shake the last asked of, she
came over miss; old knew; and have done hither been Geraniums, station,
or dislodging

.


She looked out of the window for a moment, and her eyes filled with tears. Then she thought
of her father, and how hard he had worked, and what disappointments he had suffered, and yet
how, with all his troubles, he had always put his best foot foremost--always encouraging her.
She would not let Jack see her chagrin. This was part of Jack's life, just as similar disappointments
had been part of her father's.

"Never mind, blessed. Well, we had lots of fun 'supposing,' didn't we, Jack. This one didn't
come true, but some of the others will and what difference does it make, anyway, as long as
I have you," and she nestled her face in his neck. "And now tell me what sort of a place it
is and where daddy and I are going to live, and all about it."

And then, to soften the disappointment the more and to keep a new bubble afloat, Jack launched
out into a description of the country and how beautiful the view was from the edge of the hill
overlooking the valley, with the big oaks crowning the top and the lichen-covered rocks and
fallen timber blanketed with green moss, and the spring of water that gushed out of the ground
and ran laughing down the hillside, and the sweep of mountains losing themselves in the blue
haze of the distance, and then finally to the log-cabin he was going to build for his own especial
use.

"And only two miles away," she cried in a joyous tone,--"and I can ride out every day! Oh,
Jack!--just think of it!" And so, with the breath of this new enthusiasm filling their souls,
a new bubble of hope and gladness was floated, and again the two fell to planning, and "supposing,"
the rose-glow once more lightening up the peaks.

For days nothing else was talked of. An onslaught was at once made on Carry's office, two doors
below Mrs. Hicks, for photographs, plans of bungalows, shanties, White Mountain lean-tos, and
the like, and as quickly tucked under Ruth's arm and carried off, with only the permission
of the office boy,--Garry himself being absent owing to some matters connected with a big warehouse
company in which he was interested, the boy said, and which took him to New York on the early
train and did not allow his return sometimes, until after midnight.

These plans were spread out under the lamp on the sitting-room table, the two studying the
details, their heads together, MacFarlane sitting beside them reading or listening,--the light
of the lamp falling on his earnest, thoughtful face,--Jack consulting him now and then as to
the advisability of further extensions, the same being two rooms shingled inside and out, with
an annex of bark and plank for Ruth's horse, and a kitchen and laundry and no end of comforts,
big and little,--all to be occupied whenever their lucky day would come and the merry bells
ring out the joyful tidings of their marriage.

Nor was this all this particularly radiant bubble contained. Not only was there to be a big
open fireplace built of stone, and overhead rafters of birch, the bark left on and still glistening,--but
there were to be palms, ferns, hanging baskets, chintz curtains, rugs, pots of flowers, Chinese
lanterns, hammocks, easy chairs; and for all Jack knew, porcelain tubs, electric bells, steam
heat and hot and cold water, so enthusiastic had Ruth become over the possibilities lurking
in the 15 X 20 log-hut which Jack proposed to throw together as a shelter in his exile.

CHAPTER XXV

The news of MacFarlane's expected departure soon became known in the village. There were not
many people to say good-by, the inhabitants having seen but little of the engineer and still
less of his daughter, except as she flew past, in a mad gallop, on her brown mare, her hair
sometimes down her back. The pastor of the new church came, however, to express his regrets,
and to thank Mr. MacFarlane for his interest in the church building. He also took occasion
to say many complimentary things about Garry, extolling him for the wonderful manner in which
that brilliant young architect had kept within the sum set apart by the trustees for its construction,
and for the skill with which the work was being done, adding that as a slight reward for such
devotion the church trustees had made Mr. Minott treasurer of the building fund, believing
that in this way all disputes could the better be avoided,--one of some importance having already
arisen (here the reverend gentleman lowered his voice) in which Mr. McGowan, he was sorry to
say, who was building the masonry, had attempted an overcharge which only Mr. Minott's watchful
eye could have detected, adding, with a glance over his shoulder, that the collapse of the
embankment had undermined the contractor's reputation quite as much as the freshet had his
culvert, at which MacFarlane smiled but made no reply.

Corinne also came to express her regrets, bringing with her a scrap of an infant in a teetering
baby carriage, the whole presided over by a nurse in a blue dress, white cap, and white apron,
the ends reaching to her feet: not the Corinne, the Scribe is pained to say, who, in the old
days would twist her head and stamp her little feet and have her way in everything. But a woman
terribly shrunken, with deep lines in her face and under her eyes. Jack, man-like, did not
notice the change, but Ruth did.

After the baby had been duly admired, Ruth tossing it in her arms until it crowed, Corinne
being too tired for much enthusiasm, had sent it home, Ruth escorting it herself to the garden
gate.

"I am sorry you are going," Corinne said in Ruth's absence. "I suppose we must stay on here
until Garry finishes the new church. I haven't seen much of Ruth,--or of you, either, Jack.
But I don't see much of anybody now,--not even of Garry. He never gets home until midnight,
or even later, if the train is behind time, and it generally is."

"Then he must have lots of new work," cried Jack in a cheerful tone. "He told me the last time
I saw him on the train that he expected some big warehouse job."

Corinne looked out of the window and fingered the handle of her parasol.

"I don't believe that is what keeps him in town, Jack," she said slowly. "I hoped you would
come and see him last Sunday. Did Garry give you my message? I heard you were at home to-day,
and that is why I came."

"No, he never said a single word about it or I would have come, of course. What do you think,
then, keeps him in town so late?" Something in her voice made Jack leave his own and take a
seat beside her. "Tell me, Corinne. I'll do anything I can for Garry and you too. What is it?"

"I don't know, Jack,--I wish I did. He has changed lately. When I went to his room the other
night he was walking the floor; he said he couldn't sleep, and the next morning when he didn't
come down to breakfast I went up and found him in a half stupor. I had hard work to wake him.
Don't tell Ruth,--I don't want anybody but you to know, but I wish you'd come and see him.
I've nobody else to turn to,--won't you, Jack?"

"Come! of course I'll come, Corinne,--now,--this minute, if he's home, or to-night, or any
time you say. Suppose I go back with you and wait. Garry's working too hard, that's it,--he
was always that way, puts his whole soul into anything he gets interested in and never lets
up until it's accomplished." He waited for some reply, but she was still toying with the handle
of her parasol. Her mind had not been on his proffered help,--she had not heard him, in fact.

"And, Jack," she went on in the same heart-broken tone through which an unbidden sob seemed
to struggle.

"Yes, I am listening, Corinne,--what is it?"

"I want you to forgive me for the way I have always treated you. I have--"

"Why, Corinne, what nonsense! Don't you bother your head about such--"

"Yes, but I do, and it is because I have never done anything but be ugly to you. When you lived
with us I--"

"But we were children then, Corinne, and neither of us knew any better. I won't hear one word
of such nonsense. Why, my dear girl--"he had taken her hand as she spoke and the pair rested
on his knee--"do you think I am--No--you are too sensible a woman to think anything of the
kind. But that is not it, Corinne--something worries you;" he asked suddenly with a quick glance
at her face. "What is it? You shall have the best in me, and Ruth will help too."

Her fingers closed over his. The touch of the young fellow, so full of buoyant strength and
hope and happiness, seemed to put new life into her.

"I don't know, Jack." Her voice fell to a whisper. "There may not be anything, yet I live under
an awful terror. Don't ask me;--only tell me you will help me if I need you. I have nobody
else--my stepfather almost turned me out of his office when I went to see him the other day,--my
mother doesn't care. She has only been here half a dozen times, and that was when baby was
born. Hush,--here comes Ruth,--she must not know."

"But she MUST know, Corinne. I never have any secrets from Ruth, and don't you have any either.
Ruth couldn't be anything but kind to you and she never misunderstands, and she is so helpful.
Here she is. Ruth, dear, we were just waiting for you. Corinne is nervous and depressed, and
imagines all sorts of things, one of which is that we don't care for her: and I've just told
her that we do?"

Ruth looked into Jack's eyes as if to get his meaning--she must always get her cue from him
now--she was entirely unconscious of the cause of it all, or why Corinne should feel so, but
if Jack thought Corinne was suffering and that she wanted comforting, all she had was at Corinne's
and Jack's disposal. With a quick movement she leaned forward and laid her hand on Corinne's
shoulder.

"Why, you dear Corinne,--Jack and I are not like that. What has gone wrong,--tell me," she urged.

For a brief instant Corinne made no answer. Once she tried to speak but the words died in her
throat. Then, lifting up her hands appealingly, she faltered out:

"I only said that I--Oh, Ruth!--I am so wretched!" and sank back on the lounge in an agony
of tears.

CHAPTER XXVI

At ten o'clock that same night Jack went to the station to meet Garry. He and Ruth had talked
over the strange scene--unaccountable to both of them--and had determined that Jack should
see Garry at once.

"I must help him, Ruth, no matter at what cost. Garry has been my friend for years; he has
been taken up with his work, and so have I, and we have drifted apart a little, but I shall
never forget him for his kindness to me when I first came to New York. I would never have known
Uncle Peter but for Garry, or Aunt Felicia, or--you, my darling."

Jack waited under the shelter of the overhanging roof until the young architect stepped from
the car and crossed the track. Garry walked with the sluggish movement of a tired man--hardly
able to drag his feet after him.

"I thought I'd come down to meet you, Garry," Jack cried in his old buoyant tone. "It's pretty
rough on you, old fellow, working so hard."

Garry raised his head and peered into the speaker's face.

"Why, Jack!" he exclaimed in a surprised tone; the voice did not sound like Garry's. "I didn't
see you in the train. Have you been in New York too?" He evidently understood nothing of Jack's
explanation.

"No, I came down to meet you. Corinne was at Mr. MacFarlane's to-day, and said you were not
well,--and so I thought I'd walk home with you."

"Oh, thank you, old man, but I'm all right. Corinne's nervous;--you mustn't mind her. I've
been up against it for two or three weeks now,--lot of work of all kinds, and that's kept me
a good deal from home. I don't wonder Cory's worried, but I can't help it--not yet."

They had reached an overhead light, and Jack caught a clearer view of the man. What he saw
sent a shiver through him. A great change had come over his friend. His untidy dress,--always
so neat and well kept; his haggard eyes and shambling, unsteady walk, so different from his
springy, debonair manner, all showed that he had been and still was under some terrible mental
strain. That he had not been drinking was evident from his utterance and gait. This last discovery
when his condition was considered, disturbed him most of all, for he saw that Garry was going
through some terrible crisis, either professional or financial.

As the two advanced toward the door of the station on their way to the street, the big, burly
form of McGowan, the contractor, loomed up.

"I heard you wouldn't be up till late, Mr. Minott," he exclaimed gruffly, blocking Garry's
exit to the street. "I couldn't find you at the Council or at your office, so I had to come
here. We haven't had that last payment on the church. The vouchers is all ready for your signature,
so the head trustee says,--and the money's where you can git at it."

Garry braced his shoulders and his jaw tightened. One secret of the young architect's professional
success lay in his command over his men. Although he was considerate, and sometimes familiar,
he never permitted any disrespect.

"Why, yes, Mr. McGowan, that's so," he answered stiffly. "I've been in New York a good deal
lately and I guess I've neglected things here. I'll try to come up in the morning, and if everything's
all right I'll get a certificate and fill it up and you'll get a check in a few days."

"Yes, but you said that last week." There was a sound of defiance in McGowan's voice.

"If I did I had good reason for the delay," answered Garry with a flash of anger. "I'm not
running my office to suit you."

"Nor for anybody else who wants his money and who's got to have it, and I want to tell you,
Mr. Minott, right here, and I don't care who hears it, that I want mine or I'll know the reason
why."

Garry wheeled fiercely and raised his hand as if to strike the speaker, then it dropped to
his side.

"I don't blame you, Mr. McGowan," he said in a restrained, even voice. "I have no doubt that
it's due you and you ought to have it, but I've been pretty hard pressed lately with some matters
in New York; so much so that I've been obliged to take the early morning train,--and you can
see yourself what time I get home. Just give me a day or two longer and I'll examine the work
and straighten it out. And then again, I'm not very well."

The contractor glared into the speaker's face as if to continue the discussion, then his features
relaxed. Something in the sound of Carry's voice, or perhaps some line of suffering in his
face must have touched him.

"Well, of course, I ain't no hog," he exclaimed in a softer tone, which was meant as an apology,
"and if you're sick that ends it, but I've got all them men to pay and--"

"Yes, I understand and I won't forget. Thank you, Mr. McGowan, and good-night. Come along,
Jack,--Corinne's worrying, and will be till I get home."

The two kept silent as they walked up the hill Garry, because he was too tired to discuss the
cowardly attack; Jack, because what he had to say must be said when they were alone,--when
he could get hold of Garry's hand and make him open his heart.

As they approached the small house and mounted the steps leading to the front porch, Corinne's
face could be seen pressed against a pane in one of the dining-room windows. Garry touched
Jack's arm and pointed ahead:

"Poor Cory!" he exclaimed with a deep sigh, "that's the way she is every night. Coming home
is sometimes the worst part of it all, Jack."

The door flew open and Corinne sprang out: "Are you tired, dear?" she asked, peering into his
face and kissing him. Then turning to Jack: "Thank you, Jack!--It was so good of you to go.
Ruth sent me word you had gone to meet him."

She led the way into the house, relieving Garry of his hat, and moving up an easy chair stood
beside it until he had settled himself into its depths.

Again she bent over and kissed him: "How are things to-day, dear?--any better?" she inquired
in a quavering voice.

"Some of them are better and some are worse, Cory; but there's nothing for you to worry about.
That's what I've been telling Jack. How's baby? Anybody been here from the board?--Any letters?"

"Baby's all right," the words came slowly, as if all utterance gave her pain. "No, there are
no letters. Mr. McGowan was here, but I told him you wouldn't be home till late."

"Yes, I saw him," replied Garry, dropping his voice suddenly to a monotone, an expression of
pain followed by a shade of anxiety settling on his face: McGowan and his affairs were evidently
unpleasant subjects. At this instant the cry of a child was heard. Garry roused himself and
turned his head.

"Listen--that's baby crying! Better go to her, Cory."

Garry waited until his wife had left the room, then he rose from, his chair, crossed to the
sideboard, poured out three-quarters of a glass of raw whiskey and drank it without drawing
a breath.

"That's the first to-day, Jack. I dare not touch it when I'm on a strain like this. Can't think
clearly, and I want my head,--all of it. There's a lot of sharks down in New York,--skin you
alive if they could. I beg your pardon, old man,--have a drop?"

Jack waved his hand in denial, his eyes still on his friend: "Not now, Garry, thank you."

Garry dropped the stopper into the decanter, pushed back the empty tumbler and began pacing
the floor, halting now and then to toe some pattern in the carpet, talking all the time to
himself in broken sentences, like one thinking aloud. All Jack's heart went out to his friend
as he watched him. He and Ruth were so happy. All their future was so full of hope and promise,
and Garry--brilliant, successful Garry,--the envy of all his associates, so harassed and so
wretched!

"Garry, sit down and listen to me," Jack said at last. "I am your oldest friend; no one you
know thinks any more of you than I do, or will be more ready to help. Now, what troubles you?"

"I tell you, Jack, I'm not troubled!"--something of the old bravado rang in his voice,--"except
as everybody is troubled when he's trying to straighten out something that won't straighten.
I'm knocked out, that's all,--can't you see it?"

"Yes, I see it,--and that's not all I see. Is it your work here or in New York? I want to know,
and I'm going to know, and I have a right to know, and you are not going to bed until you tell
me,--nor will I. I can and will help you, and so will Mr. MacFarlane, and Uncle Peter, and
everybody I ask. What's gone wrong?--Tell me!"

Garry continued to walk the floor. Then he wheeled suddenly and threw himself into his chair.

"Well, Jack," he answered with an indrawn sigh,--"if you must know, I'm on the wrong side of
the market."

"Stocks?"

"Not exactly. The bottom's fallen out of the Warehouse Company."

Jack's heart gave a rebound. After all, it was only a question of money and this could be straightened
out. He had begun to fear that it might be something worse; what, he dared not conjecture.

"And you have lost money?" Jack continued in a less eager tone.

"A whole lot of money."

"How much?"

"I don't know, but a lot. It went up three points to-day and so I am hanging on by my eyelids."

"Well, that's not the first time men have been in that position," Jack replied in a hopeful
tone. "Is there anything more,--something you are keeping back?"

"Yes,--a good deal more. I'm afraid I'll have to let go. If I do I'm ruined."

Jack kept silent for a moment. Various ways of raising money to help his friend passed in review,
none of which at the moment seemed feasible or possible.

"How much will make your account good?" he asked after a pause.

"About ten thousand dollars."

Jack leaned forward in his chair. "Ten thousand dollars!" he exclaimed in a startled tone.
"Why, Garry--how in the name of common-sense did you get in as deep as that?"

"Because I was a damned fool!"

Again there was silence, during which Garry fumbled for a match, opened his case and lighted
a cigarette. Then he said slowly, as he tossed the burnt end of the match from him:

"You said something, Jack, about some of your friends helping. Could Mr. MacFarlane?"

"No,--he hasn't got it,--not to spare. I was thinking of another kind of help when I spoke.
I supposed you had got into debt, or something, and were depending on your commissions to pull
you out, and that some new job was hanging fire and perhaps some of us could help as we did
on the church."

"No," rejoined Garry, in a hopeless tone, "nothing will help but a certified check. Perhaps
your Mr. Grayson might do something," he continued in the same voice.

"Uncle Peter! Why, Garry, he doesn't earn ten thousand dollars in three years."

Again there was silence.

"Well, would it be any use for you to ask Arthur Breen? He wouldn't give me a cent, and I wouldn't
ask him. I don't believe in laying down on your wife's relations, but he might do it for you
now that you're getting up in the world."

Jack bent his head in deep thought. The proposal that his uncle had made him for the ore lands
passed in review. At that time he could have turned over the property to Breen. But it was
worthless now. He shook his head:

"I don't think so." Then he added quickly--"Have you been to Mr. Morris?"

"No, and won't. I'd die first!" this came in a sharp, determined voice, as if it had jumped
hot from his heart.

"But he thinks the world of you; it was only a week ago that he told Mr. MacFarlane that you
were the best man he ever had in his office."

"Yes,--that's why I won't go, Jack. I'll play my hand alone and take the consequences, but
I won't beg of my friends; not a friend like Mr. Morris; any coward can do that. Mr. Morris
believes in me,--I want him to continue to believe in me. That's worth twenty times ten thousand
dollars." His eyes flashed for the first time. Again the old Garry shone out.

"When must you have this money?"

"By the end of the week,--before next Monday, anyhow."

"Then the situation is not hopeless?"

"No, not entirely. I have one card left;--I'll play it to-morrow, then I'll know."

"Is there a chance of its winning?"

"Yes and no. As for the 'yes,' I've always had my father's luck. Minotts don't go under and
I don't believe I shall, we take risks and we win. That's what brought me to Corklesville,
and you see what I have made of myself. Just at present I've got my foot in a bear trap, but
I'll pull out somehow. As for the 'no' part of it,--I ought to tell you that the warehouse
stock has been knocked endways by another corporation which has a right of way that cuts ours
and is going to steal our business. I think it's a put-up job to bear our stock so they can
scoop it and consolidate; that's why I am holding on. I've flung in every dollar I can rake
and scrape for margin and my stocking's about turned inside out. I got a tip last week that
I thought would land us all on our feet, but it worked the other way." Something connected
with the tip must have stirred him for his face clouded as he rose to his feet, exclaiming:
"Have a drop, Jack?--that last one braced me up."

Again Jack shook his head, and again Garry settled himself back in his chair.

"I am powerless, Garry," said Jack. "If I had the money you should have it. I have nothing
but my salary and I have drawn only a little of that lately, so as to help out in starting
the new work. I thought I had something in an ore bank my father left me, but it is valueless,
I find. I suppose I could put some life in it if I would work it along the lines Uncle Arthur
wants me to, but I can't and won't do that. Somehow, Garry, this stock business follows me
everywhere. It drove me out of Uncle Arthur's office and house, although I never regretted
that,--and now it hits you. I couldn't do anything to help Charlie Gilbert then and I can't
do anything to help you now, unless you can think of some way. Is there any one that I can
see except Uncle Arthur,--anybody I can talk to?"

Garry shook his head.

"I've done that, Jack. I've followed every lead, borrowed every dollar I could,--been turned
down half a dozen times, but I kept on. Got it in the neck twice to-day from some fellows I
thought would help push."

Jack started forward, a light breaking over his face.

"I have it, Garry! Suppose that I go to Mr. Morris. I can talk to him, maybe, in a way you
would not like to."

Garry lifted his head and sat erect.

"No, by God!--you'll do nothing of the kind!" he cried, as he brought his fist down on the
arm of his chair. "That man I love as I love nothing else in this world--wife--baby--nothing!
I'll go under, but I'll never let him see me crawl. I'll be Garry Minott to him as long as
I breathe. The same man he trusted,--the same man he loved,--for he does love me, and always
did!" He hesitated and his voice broke, as if a sob clogged it. After a moment's struggle he
went on: "I was a damned fool to leave him or I wouldn't be where I am. 'Garry,' he said to
me that last day when he took me into his office and shut the door,--'Garry, stay on here a
while longer; wait till next year. If it's more pay you want, fix it to suit yourself. I've
got two boys coming along; they'll both be through the Beaux Arts in a year or so. I'm getting
on and I'm getting tired. Stay on and go in with them.' And what did I do? Well, what's the
use of talking?--you know it all."

Jack moved his chair and put his arm over his shoulder as a woman would have done. He had caught
the break in his voice and knew how manfully he was struggling to keep up.

"Garry, old man."

"Yes, Jack."

"If Mr. Morris thought that way, then, why won't he help you now? What's ten thousand to him?"

"Nothing,--not a drop in the bucket! He'd begin drawing the check before I'd finished telling
him what I wanted it for. I'm in a hole and don't know which way to turn, but when I think
of what he's done for me I'll rot in hell before I'll take his money." Again his voice had
the old ring.

"But, Garry," insisted Jack, "if I can see Morris in the morning and lay the whole matter before
him--"

"You'll do nothing of the kind, do you hear!--keep still--somebody's coming downstairs. Not
a word if it is Corinne. She is carrying now all she can stand up under."

He passed his hand across his face with a quick movement and brushed the tears from his cheeks.

"Remember, not a word. I haven't told her everything. I tried to, but I couldn't."

"Tell her now, Garry," cried Jack. "Now--to-night," his voice rising on the last word. "Before
you close your eyes. You never needed her help as you do now."

"I can't--it would break her heart. Keep still!--that's her step."

Corinne entered the room slowly and walked to Garry's chair.

"Baby's asleep now," she said in a subdued voice, "and I'm going to take you to bed. You won't
mind, Jack, will you? Come, dear," and she slipped her hand under his arm to lift him from
his chair.

Garry rose from his seat.

"All right," he answered assuming his old cheerful tone, "I'll go. I AM tired, I guess, Cory,
and bed's the best place for me. Good-night, old man,--give my love to Ruth," and he followed
his wife out of the room.

Jack waited until the two had turned to mount the stairs, caught a significant flash from Garry's
dark eyes as a further reminder of his silence, and, opening the front door, closed it softly
behind him.

Ruth was waiting for him. She had been walking the floor during the last half hour peering
out now and then into the dark, with ears wide open for his step.

"I was so worried, my precious," she cried, drawing his cheek down to her lips. "You stayed
so long. Is it very dreadful?"

Jack put his arm around her, led her into the sitting-room and shut the door. Then the two
settled beside each other on the sofa.

"Pretty bad,--my darling--" Jack answered at last,--"very bad, really."

"Has he been drinking?"

"Worse,--he has been dabbling in Wall Street and may lose every cent he has."

Ruth leaned her head on her hand: "I was afraid it was something awful from the way Corinne
spoke. Oh, poor dear,--I'm so sorry! Does she know now?"

"She knows he's in trouble, but she doesn't know how bad it is. I begged him to tell her, but
he wouldn't promise. He's afraid of hurting her--afraid to trust her, I think, with his sufferings.
He's making an awful mistake, but I could not move him. He might listen to you if you tried."

"But he must tell her, Jack," Ruth cried in an indignant tone. "It is not fair to her; it is
not fair to any woman,--and it is not kind. Corinne is not a child any longer;--she's a grown
woman, and a mother. How can she help him unless she knows? Jack, dear, look into my eyes;"
her face was raised to his;--"Promise me, my darling, that no matter what happens to you you'll
tell me first."

And Jack promised.

CHAPTER XXVII

When Jack awoke the next morning his mind was still intent on helping Garry out of his difficulties.
Where the money was to come from, and how far even ten thousand dollars would go in bridging
over the crisis, even should he succeed in raising so large a sum, were the questions which
caused him the most anxiety.

A letter from Peter, while it did not bring any positive relief, shed a ray of light on the
situation:

I have just had another talk with the director of our bank--the one I told you was interested
in steel works in Western Maryland. He by no means agrees with either you or MacFarlane as
to the value of the ore deposits in that section, and is going to make an investigation of
your property and let me know. You may, in fact, hear from him direct as I gave him your address.

Dear love to Ruth and your own good self.

This was indeed good news if anything came of it, but it wouldn't help Garry. Should he wait
till Garry had played that last card he had spoken of, which he was so sure would win, or should
he begin at once to try and raise the money?

This news at any other time would have set his hopes to fluttering. If Peter's director was
made of money and intent on throwing it away; and if a blast furnace or a steel plant, or whatever
could turn worthless rock into pruning-hooks and ploughshares, should by some act of folly
be built in the valley at the foot of the hill he owned, why something might come of it. But,
then, so might skies fall and everybody have larks on toast for breakfast. Until then his concern
was with Garry.

He realized that the young architect was too broken down physically and mentally to decide
any question of real moment. His will power was gone and his nerves unstrung. The kindest thing
therefore that any friend could do for him, would be to step in and conduct the fight without
him. Garry's wishes to keep the situation from Corinne would be respected, but that did not
mean that his own efforts should be relaxed. Yet where would he begin, and on whom? MacFarlane
had just told him that Morris was away from home and would not be back for several days. Peter
was out of the question so far as his own means--or lack of means--was concerned, and he could
not, of course, ask him to go into debt for a man who had never been his friend, especially
when neither he nor Garry had any security to offer.

He finally decided to talk the whole matter over with MacFarlane and act on his advice. The
clear business head of his Chief cleared the situation as a north-west wind blows out a fog.

"Stay out of it, Jack," he exclaimed in a quick, positive voice that showed he had made up
his mind long before Jack had finished his recital. "Minott is a gambler, and so was his father
before him. He has got to take his lean with his fat. If you pulled him out of this hole he
would be in another in six months. It's in his blood, just as much as it is in your blood to
love horses and the woods. Let him alone;--Corinne's stepfather is the man to help; that's
his business, and that's where Minott wants to go. If there is anything of value in this Warehouse
Company, Arthur Breen & Co. can carry the certificates for Minott until they go up and he can
get out. If there is nothing, then the sooner Garry sells out and lets it go the better. Stay
out, Jack. It's not in the line of your duty. It's hard on his wife and he is having a devil
of a row to hoe, but it will be the best thing for him in the end."

Jack listened in respectful silence, as he always did, to MacFarlane's frank outburst, but
it neither changed his mind nor cooled his ardor. Where his heart was concerned his judgment
rarely worked. Then, loyalty to a friend in distress was the one thing his father had taught
him. He did not agree with his Chief's view of the situation. If Garry was born a gambler,
he had kept that fact concealed from him and from his wife. He recalled the conversation he
had had with him some weeks before, when he was so enthusiastic over the money he was going
to make in the new Warehouse deal. He had been selected as the architect for the new buildings,
and it was quite natural that he should have become interested in the securities of the company.
This threatened calamity was one that might overtake any man. Get Garry out of this hole and
he would stay out; let him sink, and his whole career would be ruined. And then there was a
sentimental side to it even if Garry was a gambler--one that could not be ignored when he thought
of Corinne and the child.

Late in the afternoon, his mind still unsettled, he poured out his anxieties to Ruth. She did
not disappoint him. Her big heart swelled only with sympathy for the wife who was suffering.
It made no difference to her that Corinne had never been even polite, never once during the
sojourn of the Minotts in the village having manifested the slightest interest either in her
own or Jack's affairs--not even when MacFarlane was injured, nor yet when the freshet might
have ruined them all. Ruth's generous nature had no room in it for petty rancors or little
hurts. Then, too, Jack was troubled for his friend. What was there for her to do but to follow
the lamp he held up to guide her feet--the lamp which now shed its glad effulgence over both?
So they talked on, discussing various ways and means, new ties born of a deeper understanding
binding them the closer--these two, who, as they sometimes whispered to each other, were "enlisted
for life," ready to meet it side by side, whatever the day developed.

Before they parted, she promised again to go and see Corinne and cheer her up. "She cannot
be left alone, Jack, with this terrible thing hanging over her," she urged, "and you must meet
Garry when he returns to-night. Then we can learn what he has done--perhaps he will have fixed
everything himself." But though Jack went to the station and waited until the arrival of the
last train had dropped its passengers, there was no sign of Garry. Nor did Ruth find Corinne.
She had gone to the city, so the nurse said, with Mr. Minott by the early train and would not
be back until the next day. Until their return Jack and Ruth found their hands tied.

On the afternoon of the second day a boy called at the brick office where Jack was settling
up the final accounts connected with the "fill" and the tunnel, preparatory to the move to
Morfordsburg, and handed him a note. It was from Corinne.

"I am in great trouble. Please come to me at once," it read. "I am here at home."

Corinne was waiting for him in the hall. She took his hand without a word of welcome, and drew
him into the small room where she had seen him two nights before. This time she shut and locked
the door.

"Mr. McGowan has just been here," she moaned in a voice that showed how terrible was the strain.
"He tried to force his way up into Garry's room but I held him back. He is coming again with
some one of the church trustees. Garry had a bad turn in New York and we came home by the noon
train, and I have made him lie down and sent for the doctor. McGowan must not see him; it will
kill him if he does. Don't leave us, Jack!"

"But how dare he come here and try to force his--"

"He will dare. He cursed and went on dreadfully. The door was shut, but Garry heard him. Oh,
Jack!--what are we to do?"

"Don't worry, Corinne; I'll take care of Mr. McGowan. I myself heard Garry tell him that he
would attend to his payments in a few days, and he went away satisfied."

"Yes, but McGowan says he has been to the bank and has also seen the Rector, and will stop
at nothing."

Jack's fingers tightened and his lips came together.

"He will stop on that threshold," he said in a low, determined voice, "and never pass it--no
matter what he wants. I will go up and tell Garry so."

"No, not yet--wait," she pleaded, in nervous twitching tones--with pauses between each sentence.
"You must hear it all first. Garry had not told me all when you were here two nights ago; he
did not tell me until after you left. Then I knelt down by his bed and put my arms around him
and he told me everything--about the people he had seen--and--McGowan--everything." She ceased
speaking and hid her eyes with the back of one hand as if to shut out some spectre, then she
stumbled on. "We took the early train for New York, and I waited until my stepfather was in
his office and went into his private room. It was Garry's last hope. He thought Mr. Breen would
listen to me on account of mother. I told him of our dreadful situation; how Garry must have
ten thousand dollars, and must have it in twenty-four hours, to save us all from ruin. Would
you believe, Jack--that he laughed and said it was an old story; that Garry had no business
to be speculating; that he had told him a dozen times to keep out of the Street; that if Garry
had any collaterals of any kind, he would loan him ten thousand dollars or any other sum, but
that he had no good money to throw after bad. I did all I could; I almost went down on my knees
to him; I begged for myself and my mother, but he only kept saying--'You go home, Corinne,
and look after your baby--women don't understand these things.' Oh, Jack!--I could not believe
that he was the same man who married my mother--and he isn't. Every year he has grown harder
and harder; he is a thousand times worse than when you lived with him. Garry was waiting outside
for me, and when I told him he turned as white as a sheet, and had to hold on to the iron railing
for a moment. It was all I could do to get him home. If he sees Mr. McGowan now it will kill
him; he can't pay him and he must tell him so, and it will all come out."

"But he will pay him, Corinne, when he gets well."

There came a pause. Then she said slowly as if each word was wrung from her heart:

"There is no money. Garry took the trust funds from the church."

"No money, Corinne! You don't mean--you can't--Oh! My God! Not Garry! No--not Garry!"

"Yes! I mean it. He expected to pay it back, but the people he is with in New York lied to
him, and now it is all gone." There was no change in her voice.

She stood gazing into his face; not a tear in her eyes; no quiver of her lips. She had passed
that stage; she was like a victim led to the stake in whom nothing but dull endurance is left.

Jack backed into a chair and sat with bowed head, his cheeks in his hands. Had the earth opened
under him he could not have been more astounded. Garry Minott a defaulter! Garry a thief! Everything
seemed to whirl about him--only the woman remained quiet--still standing--her calm, impassive
eyes fixed on his bowed head; her dry, withering, soulless words still vibrating in the hushed
room.

"When did this happen, Corinne--this--this taking of Mr. McGowan's money?" The words came between
his closed fingers, as if he, too, would shut out some horrible shape.

"Some two weeks ago."

"When did you know of it?"

"Night before last, after you left him. I knew he was in trouble, but I did not know it was
as bad as this. If Mr. Breen had helped me everything would have been all right, for Garry
sold out all the stock he had in the Warehouse Company, and this ten thousand dollars is all
he owes." She shivered as she spoke, and her pale, tired eyes closed as if in pain. Nothing
was said between them for a while, and neither of them stirred. During the silence the front
door was heard to open, letting in the village doctor, who mounted the stairs, his footfalls
reverberating in Garry's room overhead.

Jack raised his eyes at last and studied her closely. The frail body seemed more crumpled and
forlorn in the depths of the chair, where she had sunk, than when she had been standing before
him. The blonde hair, always so glossy, was dry as hemp; the small, upturned nose, once so
piquant and saucy, was thin and pinched--almost transparent; the washed-out, colorless eyes,
which in her girlhood had flashed and sparkled so roguishly, were half hidden under swollen
lids. The arms were flat, the hands like bird claws. The white heat of a furnace of agony had
shrivelled her poor body, drying up all the juices of its youth.

And yet with the scorching there had crept into the wan face, and into the tones of her tired,
heart-broken voice something Jack had never found in her as a girl--something of tenderness,
unselfishness--of self-sacrifice for another and with it there flamed up in his own heart a
determination to help--to wipe out everything--to sponge the record, to reestablish the man
who in a moment of agony had given way to an overpowering temptation and brought his wife to
this condition. A lump rose in his throat, and a look of his old father shone out of his face--that
look with which in the years gone by he had defied jury, district attorney, and public opinion
for what he considered mercy. And mercy should be exercised now. Garry had never done one dishonest
act before, and never, God helping, should he be judged for this.

He, John Breen, let Garry be called a common thief! Garry whose every stand in Corklesville
had been for justice; Garry whom Morris loved, whose presence brought a cheery word of welcome
from every room he entered! Let him be proclaimed a defaulter, insulted by ruffians like McGowan,
and treated like a felon--brilliant, lovable, forceful Garry! Never, if he had to go down on
his knees to Holker Morris or any other man who could lend him a dollar.

Corinne must have seen the new look in his face, for her own eyes brightened as she asked:

"Have you thought of something that can help him?"

Jack did not answer. His mind was too intent on finding some thread which would unravel the tangle.

"Does anybody else know of this, Corinne?" he asked at last in a low-pitched voice.

"Nobody."

"Nobody must," he exclaimed firmly. Then he added gently--"Why did you tell me?"

"He asked me to. It would all have come out in the end, and he didn't want you to see McGowan
and not know the truth. Keep still--some one is knocking," she whispered, her fingers pressed
to her lips in her fright. "I know it is McGowan, Jack. Shall I see him, or will you?"

"I will--you stay here."

Jack lifted himself erect and braced back his shoulders. He intended to be polite to McGowan,
but he also intended to be firm. He also intended to refuse him any information or promise
of any kind until the regular monthly meeting of the Church Board which would occur on Monday.
This would give him time to act, and perhaps to save the situation, desperate as it looked.

With this in his mind he turned the key and threw wide the door. It was the doctor who stood
outside. He seemed to be laboring under some excitement.

"I heard you were here, Mr. Breen--come upstairs."

Jacked obeyed mechanically. Garry had evidently heard of his being downstairs and had some
instructions to give, or some further confession to make. He would save him now from that humiliation;
he would get his arms around him, as Corinne had done, and tell him he was still his friend
and what he yet intended to do to pull him through, and that nothing which he had done had
wrecked his affection for him.

As these thoughts rushed over him his pace quickened, mounting the stairs two steps at a time
so that he might save his friend even a moment of additional suffering. The doctor touched
Jack on the shoulder, made a sign for him to moderate his steps, and the two moved to where
his patient lay.

Garry was on the bed, outside the covering, when they entered. He was lying on his back, his
head and neck flat on a pillow, one foot resting on the floor. He was in his trousers and shirt;
his coat and waistcoat lay where he had thrown them.

"Garry," began Jack in a low voice--"I just ran in to say that--"

The sick man did not move.

Jack stopped, and turned his head to the doctor.

"Asleep?" he whispered.

"No;--drugged. That's why I wanted you to see him before I called his wife. Is he accustomed
to this sort of thing?" and he picked up a bottle from the table.

Jack took the phial in his hand; it was quite small, and had a glass stopper.

"What is it, doctor?"

"I don't know. Some preparation of chloral, I should think; smells and looks like it. I'll
take it home and find out. If he's been taking this right along he may know how much he can
stand, but if he's experimenting with it, he'll wake up some fine morning in the next world.
What do you know about it?"

"Only what I have heard Mrs. Minott say," Jack whispered behind his hand. "He can't sleep without
it, she told me. He's been under a terrible business strain lately and couldn't stand the pressure,
I expect."

"Well, that's a little better," returned the doctor, moving the apparently lifeless arm aside
and placing his ear close to the patient's breast. For a moment he listened intently, then
he drew up a chair and sat down beside him, his fingers on Garry's pulse.

"You don't think he's in danger, do you, doctor?" asked Jack in an anxious tone.

"No--he'll pull through. His breathing is bad, but his heart is doing fairly well. But he's
got to stop this sort of thing." Here the old doctor's voice rose as his indignation increased
(nothing would wake Garry). "It's criminal--it's damnable! Every time one of you New York people
get worried, or short of money or stocks, or what not, off you go to a two-cent drug shop and
buy enough poison to kill a family. It's damnable, Breen--and you must tell Minott so when
he wakes up."

Jack made no protest against being included in the denunciation. He was too completely absorbed
in the fate of the man who lay in a stupor.

"Is there anything can be done for him?" he asked.

"I can't tell yet. He may only have taken a small dose. I will watch him for a while. But if
his pulse weakens we must shake him awake somehow. You needn't wait I'll call you if I want
you, You've told me what I wanted to know."

Again Jack bent over Garry, his heart wrung with pity and dismay. He was still there when the
door opened softly and a servant entered, tiptoed to where he stood, and whispered in his ear:

"Mrs. Minott says, sir, that Mr. McGowan and another man are downstairs."

The contractor was standing in the hall, his hat still on his head. The other man Jack recognized
as Murphy, one of the church building trustees. That McGowan was in an ugly mood was evident
from the expression on his face, his jaw setting tighter when he discovered that Jack and not
Garry was coming down to meet him; Jack having been associated with MacFarlane, who had "robbed
him of damages" to the "fill."

"I came to see Mr. Minott," McGowan blurted out before Jack's feet had touched the bottom step
of the stairs. "I hear he's in--come home at dinner time."

Jack continued his advance without answering until he had reached their side. Then with a "Good-evening,
gentlemen," he said in a perfectly even voice:

"Mr. Minott is ill and can see no one. I have just left the doctor sitting beside his bed.
If there is anything I can do for either of you I will do it with pleasure."

McGowan shoved his hat back on his forehead as if to give himself more air.

"That kind of guff won't go with me no longer," he snarled, his face growing redder every instant.
"This ill business is played out. He promised me three nights ago he'd make out a certificate
next day--you heard him say it--and I waited for him all the morning and he never showed up.
And then he sneaks off to New York at daylight and stays away for two nights more, and then
sneaks home again in the middle of the day when you don't expect him, and goes to bed and sends
for the doctor. How many kinds of a damned fool does he take me for? That work's been finished
three weeks yesterday; the money is all in the bank to pay for it just as soon as he signs
the check, and he don't sign it, and ye can't get him to sign it. Ain't that so, Jim Murphy?"

Murphy nodded, and McGowan blazed on: "If you want to know what I think about it--there's something
crooked about the whole business, and it gets crookeder all the time. He's drunk, if he's anything--boiling
drunk and--"

Jack laid the full weight of his hand on the speaker's shoulder:

"Stop short off where you are, Mr. McGowan." The voice came as if through tightly clenched
teeth. "If you have any business that I can attend to I am here to do it, but you can't remain
here and abuse Mr. Minott. My purpose in coming downstairs was to help you if I could, but
you must act like a man, not like a ruffian."

Murphy stepped quickly between the two men:

"Go easy, Mac," he cried in a conciliatory tone. "If the doctor's with him ye can't see him.
Hear what Mr. Breen has to say; ye got to wait anyhow. Of course, Mr. Breen, Mr. McGowan is
het up because the men is gettin' ugly, and he ain't got money enough for his next pay-roll,
and the last one ain't all paid yit."

McGowan again shifted his hat--this time he canted it on one side. His companion's warning
had had its effect, for his voice was now pitched in a lower key.

"There ain't no use talking pay-roll to Mr. Breen, Jim," he growled. "He knows what it is;
he gits up agin' it once in a while himself. If he'll tell me just when I'm going to get my
money I'll wait like any decent man would wait, but I want to know, and I want to know now."

At that instant the door of the sitting-room opened, and Corinne, shrinking as one in mortal
fright, glided out and made a hurried escape upstairs. Murphy sagged back against the wall
and waited respectfully for her to disappear. McGowan did not alter his position nor did he
remove his hat, though he waited until she had reached the landing before speaking again:

"And now, what are you going to do, Mr. Breen?" he demanded in threatening tones.

"Nothing," said Jack in his same even voice, his eyes never moving from the contractor's. "Nothing,
until you get into a different frame of mind." Then he turned to Murphy: "When Mr. McGowan
removes his hat, Mr. Murphy, and shows some sign of being a gentleman I will take you both
into the next room and talk this matter over."

McGowan flushed scarlet and jerked his hat from his head.

"Well she come on me sudden like and I didn't see her till she'd got by. Of course, if you've
got anything to say, I'm here to listen, Where'll we go?"

Jack turned and led the way into the sitting-room, where he motioned them both to seats.

"And now what is the exact amount of your voucher?" he asked, when he had drawn up a chair
and sat facing them.

McGowan fumbled in his inside pocket and drew forth a slip of paper.

"A little short of ten thousand dollars," he answered in a business-like tone of voice. "There's
the figures," and he handed the slip to Jack.

"When is this payment to be made?" continued Jack, glancing at the slip.

"Why, when the money is due, of course," he cried in a louder key. "Here's the contract--see--read
it; then you'll know."

Jack ran his eye over the document until it fell on the payment clause. This he read twice,
weighing each word.

"It says at the monthly meeting of the Board of Trustees, does it not?" he answered, smothering
all trace of the relief the words brought him.

McGowan changed color. "Well, yes--but that ain't the way the payments has always been made,"
he stammered out.

"And if I am right, the meeting takes place on Monday next?" continued Jack in a decided tone,
not noticing the interruption.

"Yes, I suppose so."

"Well, then, Monday night, Mr. McGowan, either Mr., Minott or I will be on hand. You must excuse
me now. Mrs. Minott wants me, I think," and he handed McGowan the contract and walked toward
the door, where he stood listening. Something was happening upstairs.

McGowan and his friend looked at each other in silence. The commotion overhead only added to
their discomfiture.

"Well, what do you think, Jim?" McGowan said at last in a subdued, baffled voice.

"Well, there ain't no use thinkin', Mac. If it's writ that way, it's writ that way; that's
all there is to it--" and the two joined Jack who had stepped into the hall, his eyes up the
stairway as if he was listening intensely.

"Then you say, Mr. Breen, that Mr. Minott will meet us at the Board meeting on Monday?"

Jack was about to reply when he caught sight of the doctor, his hand sliding rapidly down the
stair-rail as he approached.

McGowan, fearing to be interrupted, repeated his question in a louder voice:

"Then you say I'll see Mr. Minott on Monday?"

The doctor crossed to Jack's side. He was breathing heavily, his lips quivering; he looked
like a man who had received some sudden shock.

"Go up to Mrs. Minott," he gasped. "It's all over, Breen. He's dying. He took the whole bottle."

At this instant an agonizing shriek cut the air. It was the voice of Corinne.

CHAPTER XXVIII

No one suspected that the young architect had killed himself. Garry was known to have suffered
from insomnia, and was supposed to have taken an overdose of chloral. The doctor so decided,
and the doctor's word was law in such MATTERS, and so there was no coroner's inquest. Then
again, it was also known that he was doing a prosperous business with several buildings still
in course of construction, and that his wife's stepfather was a prominent banker.

McGowan and his friends were stupefied. One hope was left, and that was Jack's promise that
either he or Garry would be at the trustees' meeting on Monday night.

Jack had not forgotten. Indeed nothing else filled his mind. There were still three days in
which to work. The shock of his friend's death, tremendous as it was, had only roused him to
a greater need of action. The funeral was to take place on Sunday, but he had Saturday and
Monday left. What he intended to do for Garry and his career he must now do for Garry's family
and Garry's reputation. The obligation had really increased, because Garry could no longer
fight his battles himself; nor was there a moment to lose. The slightest spark of suspicion
would kindle a flame of inquiry, and the roar of an investigation would follow. McGowan had
already voiced his own distrust of Garry's methods. No matter what the cost, this money must
be found before Monday night.

The secret of both the suicide and the defalcation was carefully guarded from MacFarlane, who,
with his daughter, went at once to Minott's house, proffering his services to the stricken
widow, but nothing was withheld from Ruth. The serious financial obligations which Jack was
about to undertake would inevitably affect their two lives; greater, therefore, than the loyalty
he owed to the memory of his dead friend, was the loyalty which he owed to the woman who was
to be his wife, and from whom he had promised to hide no secrets. Though he felt sure what
her answer would be, his heart gave a great bound of relief when she answered impulsively,
without a thought for herself or their future:

"You are right, dearest. These things make me love you more. You are so splendid, Jack. And
you never disappoint me. It is Garry's poor little boy who must be protected. Everybody would
pity the wife, but nobody would pity the child. He will always be pointed at when he grows
up. Dear little tot! He lay in my arms so sweet and fresh this morning, and put his baby hands
upon my cheek, and looked so appealingly into my face. Oh, Jack, we must help him. He has done
nothing."

They were sitting together as she spoke, her head on his shoulder, her fingers held tight in
his strong, brown hand. She could get closer to him in this position, she always told him:
these hands and cheeks were the poles of a battery between which flowed and flashed the vitality
of two sound bodies, and through which quivered the ecstasy of two souls.

Suddenly the thought of Garry and what he had been, in the days of his brilliancy, and of what
he had done to crush the lives about him came to her. Could she not find some excuse for him,
something which she might use as her own silent defence of him in the years that were to come?

"Do you think Garry was out of his mind, Jack? He's been so depressed lately?" she asked, all
her sympathy in her voice.

"No, my blessed, I don't think so. Everybody is more or less insane who succumbs to a crisis.
Garry believed absolutely in himself and his luck, and when the cards went against him he collapsed.
And yet he was no more a criminal at heart than I am. But that is all over now. He has his
punishment, poor boy, and it is awful when you think of it. How he could bring himself to prove
false to his trust is the worst thing about it. This is a queer world, my darling, in which
we live. I never knew much about it until lately. It is not so at home, or was not when I was
a boy--but here you can take away a man's character, rob him of his home, corrupt his children.
You can break your wife's heart, be cruel, revengeful; you can lie and be tricky, and no law
can touch you--in fact, you are still a respectable citizen. But if you take a dollar-bill
out of another man's cash drawer, you are sent to jail and branded as a thief. And it is right--looked
at from one standpoint--the protection of society. It is the absence of all mercy in the enforcement
of the law that angers me."

Ruth moved her head and nestled the closer. How had she lived all the years of her life, she
thought to herself, without this shoulder to lean on and this hand to guide her? She made no
answer. She had never thought about these things in that way before, but she would now. It
was so restful and so blissful just to have him lead her, he who was so strong and self-reliant,
and whose vision was so clear, and who never dwelt upon the little issues. And it was such
a relief to reach up her arms and kiss him and say, "Yes, blessed," and to feel herself safe
in his hands. She had never been able to do that with her father. He had always leaned on her
when schemes of economies were to be thought out, or details of their daily lives planned.
All this was changed now. She had found Jack's heart wide open and had slipped inside, his
strong will henceforth to be hers.

Still cuddling close, her head on his shoulder, her heart going out to him as she thought of
the next morning and the task before him, she talked of their coming move to the mountains,
and of the log-cabin for which Jack had already given orders; of the approaching autumn and
winter and what they would make of it, and of dear daddy's plans and profits, and of how long
they must wait before a larger log-cabin--one big enough for two--would be theirs for life--any
and every topic which she thought would divert his mind--but Garry's ghost would not down.

"And what are you going to do first, my darling?" she asked at last, finding that Jack answered
only in monosyllables or remained silent altogether.

"I am going to see Uncle Arthur in the morning," he answered quickly, uncovering his brooding
thoughts. "It won't do any good, perhaps, but I will try it. I have never asked him for a cent
for myself, and I won't now. He may help Corinne this time, now that Garry is dead. There must
be some outside money due Garry that he has not been able to collect--commissions on unfinished
work. This can be turned in when it is due. Then I am going to Uncle Peter, and after that
to some of the people we trade with."

Breen was standing by the ticker when Jack entered. It was a busy day in the Street and values
were going up by leaps and bounds. The broker was not in a good humor; many of his customers
were short of the market.

He followed Jack into his private office and faced him.

"Funeral's at one o'clock Sunday, I see," he said in a sharp voice, as if he resented the incident.
"Your aunt and I will be out on the noon train. She got back this morning, pretty well bunged
up. Killed himself, didn't he?"

"That is not the doctor's opinion, sir, and he was with him when he died."

"Well, it looks that way to me. He's busted--and all balled up in the Street. If you know anybody
who will take the lease off Corinne's hands, let me know. She and the baby are coming to live
with us."

Jack replied that he would make it his business to do so, with pleasure, and after giving his
uncle the details of Garry's death he finally arrived at the tangled condition of his affairs.

Breen promptly interrupted him.

"Yes, so Corinne told me. She was in here one day last week and wanted to borrow ten thousand
dollars. I told her it didn't grow on trees. Suppose I had given it to her? Where would it
be now. Might as well have thrown it in the waste-basket. So I shut down on the whole business--had
to."

Jack waited until his uncle had relieved his mind. The state of the market had something to
do with his merciless point of view; increasing irritability, due to loss of sleep, and his
habits had more. The outburst over, Jack said in a calm direct voice, watching the effect of
the words as a gunner watches a shell from his gun:

"Will you lend it to me, sir?"

Arthur was pacing his private office, casting about in his mind how to terminate the interview,
when Jack's shot overhauled him. Garry's sudden death had already led him to waste a few more
minutes of his time than he was accustomed to on a morning like this, unless there was business
in it.

He turned sharply, looked at Jack for an instant, and dropped into the revolving chair fronting
his desk.

Then he said in a tone of undisguised surprise:

"Lend you ten thousand dollars! What for?"

"To clear up some matters of Garry's at Corklesville. The Warehouse matter has been closed
out, so Corinne tells me."

"Oh, that's it, is it? I thought you wanted it for yourself. Who signs for it?"

"I do."

"On what collateral?"

"My word."

Breen leaned back in his chair. The unsophisticated innocence of this boy from the country
would be amusing if it were not so stupid.

"What are you earning, Jack?" he said at last, with a half-derisive, half-humorous expression
on his face.

"A thousand dollars a year." Jack had never taken his eyes from his uncle's face, nor had he
moved a muscle of his body.

"And it would take you ten years to pay it if you dumped it all in?"

"Yes."

"Got anything else to offer?" This came in a less supercilious tone. The calm, direct manner
of the young man had begun to have its effect.

"Nothing but my ore property."

"That's good for nothing. I made a mistake when I wanted you to put it in here. Glad you didn't
take me up."

"So am I. My own investigation showed the same thing."

"And the ore's of poor quality," continued Breen in a decided tone.

"Very poor quality, what I saw of it," rejoined Jack.

"Well, we will check that off. MacFarlane got any thing he could turn in?"

"No--and I wouldn't ask him."

"And you mean to tell me, Jack, that you are going broke yourself to help a dead man pay his
debts?"

"If you choose to put it that way."

"Put it that way? Why, what other way is there to put it? You'll excuse me, Jack--but you always
were a fool when your damned idiotic notions of what is right and wrong got into your head--and
you'll never get over it. You might have had an interest in my business by this time, and be
able to write your check in four figures; and yet here you are cooped up in a Jersey village,
living at a roadside tavern, and getting a thousand dollars a year. That's what your father
did before you; went round paying everybody's debts; never could teach him anything; died poor,
just as I told him he would."

Jack had to hold on to his chair to keep his mouth closed. His father's memory was dangerous
ground for any man to tread on--even his father's brother; but the stake for which he was playing
was too great to be risked by his own anger.

"No, Jack," Breen continued, gathering up a mass of letters and jamming them into a pigeon-hole
in front of him, as if the whole matter was set forth in their pages and he was through with
it forever. "No--I guess I'll pass on that ten thousand-dollar loan. I am sorry, but A. B.
& Co, haven't any shekels for that kind of tommy-rot. As to your helping Minott, what I've
got to say to you is just this: let the other fellow walk--the fellow Garry owes money to--but
don't you butt in. They'll only laugh at you. Now you will have to excuse me--the market's
kiting, and I've got to watch it. Give my love to Ruth. Your aunt and I will be out on the
noon train for the funeral. Good-by."

It was what he had expected. He would, perhaps, have stood a better chance if he had read him
Peter's encouraging letter of the director's opinion of his Cumberland property, and he might
also have brought him up standing (and gone away with the check in his pocket) if he had told
him that the money was to save his own wife's daughter and grandchild from disgrace--but that
secret was not his. Only as a last, desperate resource would he lay that fact bare to a man
like Arthur Breen, and perhaps not even then. John Breen's word was, or ought to be, sacred
enough on which to borrow ten thousand dollars or any other sum. That meant a mortgage on his
life until every cent was paid.

Do not smile, dear reader. He is only learning his first lesson in modern finance. All young
men "raised" as Jack had been--and the Scribe is one of them--would have been of the same mind
at his age. In a great city, when your tea-kettle starts to leaking, you never borrow a whole
one from your neighbor; you send to the shop at the corner and buy another. In the country--Jack's
country, I mean--miles from a store, you borrow your neighbor's, who promptly borrows your
saucepan in return. And it was so in larger matters: the old Chippendale desk with its secret
drawer was often the bank--the only one, perhaps, in a week's journey. It is astonishing in
these days to think how many dingy, tattered or torn bank-notes were fished out of these same
receptacles and handed over to a neighbor with the customary--"With the greatest pleasure,
my dear sir. When you can sell your corn or hogs, or that mortgage is paid off, you can return
it." A man who was able to lend, and who still refused to lend, to a friend in his adversity,
was a pariah. He had committed the unpardonable sin. And the last drop of the best Madeira
went the same way and with equal graciousness!

Peter, at Jack's knock, opened the door himself. Isaac Cohen had just come in to show him a
new book, and Peter supposed some one from the shop below had sent upstairs for him.

"Oh! it's you, my boy!" Peter cried in his hearty way, his arms around Jack's shoulders as
he drew him inside the room. Then something in the boy's face checked him, bringing to mind
the tragedy. "Yes, I read it all in the papers," he exclaimed in a sympathetic voice. "Terrible,
isn't it! Poor Minott. How are his wife and the poor little baby--and dear Ruth. The funeral
is to-morrow I see by the papers. Yes, of course I'm going." As he spoke he turned his head
and scanned Jack closely.

"Are you ill, my boy?" he asked in an anxious tone, leading him to a seat on the sofa. "You
look terribly worn."

"We all have our troubles, Uncle Peter," Jack replied with a glance at Cohen, who had risen
from his chair to shake his hand.

"Yes--but not you. Out with it! Isaac doesn't count. Anything you can tell me you can tell
him. What's the matter?--is it Ruth?"

Jack's face cleared. "No, she is lovely, and sent you her dearest love."

"Then it's your work up in the valley?"

"No--we begin in a month. Everything's ready--or will be."

"Oh! I see, it's the loss of Minott. Oh, yes, I understand it all now. Forgive me, Jack. I
did not remember how intimate you and he were once. Yes, it is a dreadful thing to lose a friend.
Poor boy!"

"No--it's not that altogether, Uncle Peter."

He could not tell him. The dear old gentleman was ignorant of everything regarding Garry and
his affairs, except that he was a brilliant young architect, with a dashing way about him,
of whom Morris was proud. This image he could not and would not destroy. And yet something
must be done to switch Peter from the main subject--at least until Cohen should leave.

"The fact is I have just had an interview with Uncle Arthur, and he has rather hurt my feelings,"
Jack continued in explanation, a forced smile on his face. "I wanted to borrow a little money.
All I had to offer as security was my word."

Peter immediately became interested. Nothing delighted him so much as to talk over Jack's affairs.
Was he not a silent partner in the concern?

"You wanted it, of course, to help out on the new work," he rejoined. "Yes, it always takes
money in the beginning. And what did the old fox say?"

Jack smiled meaningly. "He said that what I called 'my word' wasn't a collateral. Wanted something
better. So I've got to hunt for it somewhere else."

"And he wouldn't give it to you?" cried Peter indignantly. "No, of course not! A man's word
doesn't count with these pickers and stealers. Half--three-quarters--of the business of the
globe is done on a man's word. He writes it on the bottom or on the back of a slip of paper
small enough to light a cigar with--but it's only his word that counts. In these mouse-traps,
however, these cracks in the wall, they want something they can get rid of the moment somebody
else says it is not worth what they loaned on it; or they want a bond with the Government behind
it. Oh, I know them!"

Cohen laughed--a dry laugh--in compliment to Peter's way of putting it--but there was no ring
of humor in it. He had been reading Jack's mind. There was something behind the forced smile
that Peter had missed--something deeper than the lines of anxiety and the haunted look in the
eyes. This was a different lad from the one with whom he had spent so pleasant an evening some
weeks before. What had caused the change?

"Don't you abuse them, Mr. Grayson--these pawn-brokers," he said in his slow, measured way.
"If every man was a Turk we could take his word, but when they are Jews and Christians and
such other unreliable people, of course they want something for their ducats. It's the same
old pound of flesh. Very respectable firm this, Mr. Arthur Breen & Co.--VERY respectable people.
I used to press off the elder gentleman's coat--he had only two--one of them I made myself
when he first came to New York--but he has forgotten all about it now," and the little tailor
purred softly.

"If you had pressed out his morals, Isaac, it would have helped some."

"They didn't need it. He was a very quiet young man and very polite; not so fat, or so red
or so rich, as he is now. I saw him the other day in our bank. You see," and he winked slyly
at Jack, "these grand people must borrow sometimes, like the rest of us; but he never remembers
me any more." Isaac paused for a moment as if the reminiscence had recalled some amusing incident.
When he continued his face had a broad smile--"and I must say, too, that he always paid his
bills. Once, when he was afraid he could not pay, he wanted to bring the coat back, but I wouldn't
let him. Oh, yes, a very nice young man, Mr. Arthur Breen," and the tailor's plump body shook
with suppressed laughter.

"You know, of course, that he is this young man's uncle," said Peter, laying his hand affectionately
on Jack's shoulder.

"Oh, yes, I know about it. I saw the likeness that first day you came in," he continued, nodding
to Jack. "It was one of the times when your sister, the magnificent Miss Grayson was here,
Mr. Grayson." Isaac always called her so, a merry twinkle in his eye when he said it, but with
a face and voice showing nothing but the deepest respect; at which Peter would laugh a gentle
laugh in apology for his sister's peculiarities, a dislike of little tailors being one of them--this
little tailor especially.

"And now, Mr. Breen, I hope you will have better luck," Isaac said, rising from his chair and
holding out his hand.

"But you are not going, Isaac," protested Peter.

"Yes, this young gentleman, I see, is in a good deal of trouble and I cannot help him much,
so I will go away," and with a wave of his pudgy hand he shut the door behind him and trotted
downstairs to his shop.

Jack waited until the sound of his retreating footsteps assured the Jew's permanent departure,
then he turned to Peter.

"I did not want to say too much before Mr. Cohen, but Uncle Arthur's refusal has upset me completely.
I could not have believed it of him. You must help me somehow, Uncle Peter. I don't mean with
your own money; you have not got it to spare--but so I can get it somewhere. I must have it,
and I can't rest until I do get it."

"Why, my dear boy! Is it so bad as that? I thought you were joking."

"I tried to joke about it while Mr. Cohen was here, but he saw through it, I know, from the
way he spoke: but this really is a very serious matter; more serious than anything that ever
happened to me."

Peter walked to the sofa and sat down. Jack's manner and the tone of his voice showed that
a grave calamity had overtaken the boy. He sat looking into Jack's eyes.

"Go on," he said, his heart in his mouth.

"I must have ten thousand dollars. How and where can I borrow it?"

Peter started. "Ten thousand dollars!" he repeated in undisguised surprise. "Whew! Why, Jack,
that's a very large sum of money for you to want. Why, my dear boy, this is--well--well!"

"It is not for me, Uncle Peter--or I would not come to you for it."

"For whom is it, then?" Peter asked, in a tone that showed how great was his relief now that
Jack was not involved.

"Don't ask me, please."

Peter was about to speak, but he checked himself. He saw it all now. The money was for MacFarlane,
and the boy did not like to say so. He had heard something of Henry's financial difficulties
caused by the damage to the "fill." He thought that this had been made good; he saw now that
he was misinformed.

"When do you want it, Jack?" he resumed. He was willing to help, no matter who it was for.

"Before Monday night."

Peter drew out his watch as if to find some relief from its dial, and slipped it into his pocket
again. It was not yet three o'clock and his bank was still open, but it did not contain ten
thousand dollars or any other sum that he could draw upon. Besides, neither Jack, nor MacFarlane,
nor anybody connected with Jack, had an account at the Exeter. The discounting of their notes
was, therefore, out of the question.

"To-day is a short business day, Jack, being Saturday," he said with a sigh. "If I had known
of this before I might have--and yet to tell you the simple truth, my boy, I don't know a human
being in the world who would lend me that much money, or whom I could ask for it."

"I thought maybe Mr. Morris might, if you went to him, but I understand he is out of town,"
returned Jack.

"Yes," answered Peter in a perplexed tone--"yes--Holker has gone to Chicago and won't be back
for a week." He, too, had thought of Morris and the instantaneous way in which he would have
reached for his check-book.

"And you must have it by Monday night?" Peter continued, his thoughts bringing into review
one after the other all the moneyed men he knew. "Well--well--that IS a very short notice.
It means Monday to hunt in, really--to-morrow being Sunday."

He leaned back and sat in deep thought, Jack watching every expression that crossed his face.
Perhaps Ruth was mixed up in it in some way. Perhaps their marriage depended upon it--not directly,
but indirectly--making a long postponement inevitable. Perhaps MacFarlane had some old score
to settle. This contracting was precarious business. Once before he had known Henry to be in
just such straits. Again he consulted his watch.

Then a new and cheering thought struck him. He rose quickly from his seat on the sofa and crossed
the room to get his hat.

"It is a forlorn hope, Jack, but I'll try it. Come back here in an hour--or stay here and wait."

"No, I'll keep moving," replied Jack. "I have thought of some supply men who know me; our account
is considerable; they would lend it to Mr. MacFarlane, but that's not the way I want it. I'll
see them and get back as soon as I can--perhaps in a couple of hours."

"Then make it eight o'clock, so as to be sure. I have thought of something else. Ten thousand
dollars," he kept muttering to himself--"ten thousand dollars"--as he put on his hat and moved
to the door. There he stopped and faced about--his bushy brows tightening as a new difficulty
confronted him. "Well, but for how long?" That part of the transaction Jack had forgotten to
mention.

"I can't tell; maybe a year--maybe more."

Peter advanced a step as if to return to the room and give up the whole business.

"But Jack, my boy, don't you see how impossible a loan of that kind is?"

Jack stood irresolute. In his mad desire to save Garry he had not considered that phase of
the matter.

"Yes--but I've GOT TO HAVE IT," he cried in a positive tone. "You would feel just as I do,
if you knew the circumstances."

Peter turned without a word and opened the door leading into the hall. "Be back here at eight,"
was all he said as he shut the door behind him and clattered down the uncarpeted stairs.

Shortly before the appointed hour Jack again mounted the three flights of steps to Peter's
rooms. He had had a queer experience--queer for him. The senior member of one supply firm had
looked at him sharply, and had then said with a contemptuous smile, "Well, we are looking for
ten thousand dollars ourselves, and will pay a commission to get it." Another had replied that
they were short, or would be glad to oblige him, and as soon as Jack left the office had called
to their bookkeeper to "send MacFarlane his account, and say we have some heavy payments to
meet, and will he oblige us with a check"--adding to his partner--"Something rotten in Denmark,
or that young fellow wouldn't be looking around for a wad as big as that." A third merchant
heard him out, and with some feeling in his voice said: "I'm sorry for you, Breen"--Jack's
need of money was excuse enough for the familiarity--"for Mr. MacFarlane thinks everything
of you, he's told me so a dozen times--and there isn't any finer man living than Henry MacFarlane.
But, just as your friend, let me tell you to stay out of the Street; it's no place for a young
man like you. No--I don't mean any offence. If I didn't believe in you myself, I wouldn't say
it. Take my advice and stay out."

And so footsore and heart-sore, his face haggard from hunger, for he had eaten nothing since
breakfast, his purpose misunderstood, his own character assailed, his pride humiliated, and
with courage almost gone, he strode into Peter's room and threw himself into a chair.

Peter heard his step and entered from his bedroom, where he had finished dressing for dinner.
The old fellow seemed greatly troubled. One glance at Jack's face told the story of the afternoon.

"You have done nothing, Jack?" he asked in a despondent tone.

"No--have you?"

"Nothing. Portman has gone to his place on Long Island, the others were out. Whom did you see?"

"Some people we do business with; some of them laughed at me; some gave me advice; none of
them had any money."

"I expected it. I don't think you are quite aware of what you ask, my dear boy."

"Perhaps I am not, but I am beginning to see. It is a new experience for me. If my father had
wanted the money for the same purpose for which I want this, he would not have had to drive
a mile from his house before he would have had it."

"Your father lived in a different atmosphere, my boy; in another age, really. In his environment
money meant the education of children, the comfort of women, and the hospitalities that make
up social life."

"Well, is not that true now, among decent people?" protested Jack, his mind going back to some
homes he remembered.

"No--not generally--not here in New York. Money here means the right to exist on the planet;
we fight for it as we do for our lives. Your own need of this ten thousand dollars proves it.
The men I tried to find this afternoon have more than they need or ever will need; that's why
I called on them. If I lost it, it wouldn't matter to them, but I would never hear the last
of it all the same," and a shudder ran through him.

Peter did not tell Jack that had Portman been at home and, out of friendship for him, had agreed
to his request, he would have required the old fellow's name on a demand note for the amount
of the loan; and that he would willingly have signed it, to relieve the boy's mind and ward
off the calamity that threatened those he loved and those who loved him--not one cent of which,
the Scribe adds in all positiveness, would the boy have taken had he known that the dear fellow
had in any way pledged himself for its return.

For some minutes Jack sat stretched out in his chair, his body aslant; Peter still beside him.
All the events of the day and night passed in review before him; Garry's face and heavy breathing;
McGowan's visit and defiance; Corinne's agonized shriek--even the remembrance made him creep--then
Ruth's voice and her pleading look: "The poor little boy. Jack. He has done no wrong--all his
life he must be pointed at."

He dragged himself to his feet.

"I will go back to Ruth now, Uncle Peter. Thank you for trying. I know it is a wild goose chase,
but I must keep moving. You will be out to-morrow; we bury poor Garry at one o'clock. I still
have all day Monday. Good-night."

"Come out and dine with me, my boy--we will go to--"

"No, Ruth is worrying. I will get something to eat when I get home. Good-night!"

CHAPTER XXIX

Jack descended Peter's stairs one step at a time, Each seemed to plunge him the deeper into
some pit of despair. Before he reached the bottom he began to realize the futility of his efforts.
He began to realize, too, that both he and Ruth had been swept off their feet by their emotions.
MacFarlane, the elder Breen, and now Peter, had all either openly condemned his course or had
given it scant encouragement. There was nothing to go new but go home and tell Ruth. Then,
after the funeral was over, he would have another talk with MacFarlane.

He had reached the cool air of the street, and stood hesitating whether to cross the Square
on his way to the ferry, or to turn down the avenue, when the door of Isaac Cohen's shop opened,
and the little tailor put out his head.

"I have been waiting for you." he said in a measured voice. "Come inside."

Jack was about to tell him that he must catch a train, when something in the tailor's manner
and the earnestness with which he spoke, made the young fellow alter his mind and follow him.

The little man led the way through the now darkened and empty shop, lighted by one gas jet--past
the long cutting counter flanked by shelves bearing rolls of cloth and paper patterns, around
the octagon stove where the irons were still warm, and through the small door which led into
his private room. There he turned up a reading lamp, its light softened by a green shade, and
motioning Jack to a seat, said abruptly, but politely--more as a request than a demand:

"I have a question to ask you, and you will please tell me the truth. How much money do you
want, and what do you want it for?"

Jack bit his lip. He wanted money, and he wanted it badly, but the tailor had no right to pry
into his private affairs--certainly not in this way.

"Well, that was something I was talking to Uncle Peter about," he rejoined stiffly. "I suppose
you must have overheard."

"Yes, I did. Go on--how much money do you want, and what do you want it for?"

"But, Mr. Cohen, I don't think I ought to bother you with my troubles. They wouldn't interest you."

"Now, my dear young man, you will please not misunderstand me. You are very intelligent, and
you are very honest, and you always say what is in your heart; I have heard you do it many
times. Now say it to me."

There was no mistaking the tailor's earnestness. It evidently was not mere curiosity which
prompted him. It was something else. Jack wondered vaguely if the Jew wanted to turn money-lender
at a big percentage.

"Why do you want to know?" he asked; more to gain time to fathom his purpose than with any
intention of giving him the facts.

Isaac went to his desk, opened with great deliberation an ebony box, took out two cigars, offered
one to Jack, leaned over the lamp until his own was alight, and took the chair opposite Jack's.
All this time Jack sat watching him as a child does a necromancer, wondering what he meant
to do next.

"Why do I want to know, Mr. Breen? Well, I will tell you. I have loved Mr. Grayson for a great
many years. When he goes out in the morning he always looks through the glass window and waves
his hand. If I am not in sight, he opens the door and calls inside, 'Ah, good-morning, Isaac.'
At night, when he comes home, he waves his hand again. I know every line in his face, and it
is always a happy face. Once or twice a week he comes in here, and we talk. That is his chair--the
one you are sitting in. Once or twice a week I go up and sit in his chair and talk. In all
the years I have known him I have only seen him troubled once or twice. Then I asked him the
reason, and he told me. To-day I heard you speak about some money you wanted, and then I saw
that something had gone wrong. After I left he came downstairs and passed my window and did
not look in. I watched him go up the street, he walked very slow, and his head was down on
his chest. I did not like it. A little while ago he came back; I went out to meet him. I said,
'Mr. Grayson, what troubles you?' And he said--'Nothing, Isaac, thank you,' and went upstairs.
That is the first time in all the years I know him that he answered me like that. So now I
ask you once more--how much money do you want, and what do you want it for? When I know this,
then I will know what troubles Mr. Grayson. There is always a woman or a sum of money at the
bottom of every complication. Mr. Grayson never worries over either. I do not believe you do,
but I have had many surprises in my life."

Jack had heard him through without interruption. Most of it--especially Cohen's affection for
Peter--he had known before. It was the last statement that roused him.

"Well, if you must know, Mr. Cohen--it is not for myself, but for a friend."

The Jew smiled. He saw that the young man had told the truth. Peter's confidence in the boy,
then, need not be shaken.

"And how much money do you need for your friend?" His eyes were still reading Jack.

"Well, a very large sum." Jack did not like the cross-examination, but somehow he could not
resent it.

"But, my dear young man, will you not tell me? If you buy a coat, do you not want to know the
price? If you pay for an indiscretion, is not the sum named in the settlement?"

"Ten thousand dollars."

There was no change in the Jew's face. The smile did not alter.

"And this is the money that Mr. Grayson tried to borrow for you, and failed? Is it not so?"

Jack nodded.

"And you have tried everywhere to get it yourself? All the afternoon you have been at it?"
Still the same queer smile--one of confirmation, as if he had known it all the time.

Again Jack nodded. Isaac was either a mind reader or he must have been listening at the keyhole
when he poured out his heart to Peter.

"Yes, that is what I thought when I saw you come in a little while ago, dragging your feet
as if they were lead, and your eyes on the ground. The step and the eye, Mr. Breen, if you
did but know it, make a very good commercial agency. When the eye is bright and the walk is
quick, your customer has the money to pay either in his pocket or in his bank; when the step
is dull and sluggish, you take a risk; when the eye looks about with an anxious glance and
the step is stealthy, and then when you take the measure for the coat, both go out dancing,
you may never get a penny. But that is only to tell you how I know," the tailor chuckled softly.
"And now one thing more"--he was serious now--"when must you have this ten thousand dollars?"

"Before Monday night."

"In cash?"

"In cash or something I can get cash on."

The tailor rose from his seat with a satisfied air--he had evidently reached the point he had
been striving for--laid the stump of his cigar on the edge of the mantel, crossed the room,
fumbled in the side pocket of a coat which hung on a nail in an open closet; drew out a small
key; sauntered leisurely to his desk, all the while crooning a tune to himself--Jack following
his every movement, wondering what it all meant, and half regretting that he had not kept on
to the ferry instead of wasting his time. Here he unlocked a drawer, took out a still smaller
key--a flat one this time--removed some books and a small Barye bronze tiger from what appeared
to be a high square table, rolled back the cloth, bringing into view an old-fashioned safe,
applied the key and swung back a heavy steel door. Here, still crooning his song in a low key,
dropping it and picking it up again as he moved--quite as does the grave-digger in "Hamlet"--he
drew forth a long, flat bundle and handed it to Jack.

"Take them, Mr. Breen, and put them in your inside pocket. There are ten United States Government
bonds. If these Breen people will not lend you the amount of money you want, take them to Mr.
Grayson's bank. Only do not tell him I gave them to you. I bought them yesterday and was going
to lock them up in my safe deposit vault, only I could not leave my shop. Oh, you needn't look
so scared. They are good," and he loosened the wrapper.

Jack sprang from his seat. For a moment he could not speak.

"But, Mr. Cohen! Do you know I haven't any security to offer you, and that I have only my salary
and--"

"Have I asked you for any?" Isaac replied with a slight shrug, a quizzical smile crossing his face.

"No--but--"

"Ah, then, we will not talk about it. You are young--you are hard-working; you left a very
rich home on Fifth Avenue to go and live in a dirty hotel in a country village--all because
you were honest; you risked your life to save your employer; and now you want to go into debt
to save a friend. Ah--you see, I know all about you, my dear Mr. John Breen. Mr. Grayson has
told me, and if he had not, I could read your face. No--no--no--we will not talk about such
things as cent per cent and security. No--no--I am very glad I had the bonds where I could
get at them quick. There now--do you run home as fast as you can and tell your friend. He is
more unhappy than anybody."

Jack had his breath now and he had also made up his mind. Every drop of blood in his body was
in revolt. Take money from a Jew tailor whom he had not seen half a dozen times; with whom
he had no business relations or dealings, or even social acquaintance?

He laid the bonds back on the desk.

"I cannot take them, Mr. Cohen. I thank you most sincerely, but--no--you must not give them
to me. I--"

Isaac wheeled suddenly and drew himself up. His little mouse eyes were snapping, and his face
fiery red.

"You will not take them! Why?"

"I don't know--I can't!"

"I know!" he cried angrily, but with a certain dignity. "It is because I am a Jew. Not because
I am a tailor--you have too much sense for that--but because I am a Jew!"

"Oh, Mr. Cohen!"

"Yes--I know--I see inside of you. I read you just as if you were a page in a book. Who taught
you to think that? Not your Uncle Peter; he loves me--I love him. Who taught you such nonsense?"
His voice had risen with every sentence. In his indignation he looked twice his size. Sparkses, they
know t awake them clasp, and gentlemen. Door, behind eyes and cutlery, and hats, smile-seed,
tea, manner. And gentlemen, you want pot? Partiklar, they are, i.
Merely, aby sparks said,'she at Bundle,'he tell,'he leave me strolled
the boxes or vial, you like it stoop, wonderingly see he go Palmyra.

That!'it.'what!'i,'he let Palmyra and sarve!

You'right to say ain't be common occasions'stuff; that it ain'her will t. but what would come of
ladies on MS, her just? It's was then that she meant her,'i;'they're my customers.'"" sawder!
Jared, "he looked the lips." Cart, "you on man himself." he had'mho, "you laughed an third," where
there's. "" where the grasshoppers break their legs in lips to the, "her interposed you met
the fourth." where more front, mockin'-puss, "her cried a fifth."'Bundle't turned s'intment, "her
continued in Slip." finest thing.

Cross to talk into things, and stairs; but you have get corns, it
fray'em,'trick and vanish to wish stand.

Half.

You tried, miss, "t shout he were to Jack," he ain't got of freckles,
you may be too.

While was welled of disaster afore you travel us kiss bed, freckle
roses! "" he murmur tongue!

"it said you faced," i spoil her plaster when you reached. "And am while it was and me turned to
be braved.

Gentlemen," you continued on Mr, "famous razor-strops. Rub each tones uptilting--, him awoke this
times had over see it had-- trim. steam-firm, you don'telegram to
know how; beard, Half.

Great vartue! Ma'enough!" he cried he press she was to lady, not loosen us said in ourselves, her
was looking up scene, "Ma'now!"

I looked at lady. "he bless my soul! Mrs and he kiss you press with Dobleton, my neighbours on
Mississippi'. Delighted, Dobleton; allow me was that wife and had recorded again to you looked." Our
greetings and compliments were drowned by arm. "Ma'oh yes fiercely!" him cried when he press
please spoil he went, box, "Head'yes leisurely! the daddy.

Famous lockjaw!" A teeth and waist. Little ladies! most trick. "The Dobletons who turned green."
incomparable remedy!

"us proceed jared;" him rub it if it held he was on feet don we kiss
portion, surprised feet tell he awoke they awoke as Peter.

Fine, ma'all! "i say it cried he love some jack was standing by both, amongst qualities to firm;"
the lockjaw, it come her. There was Miss she had the chitchat was goin'until his Mr to shaver
us loosen, jaw.'calciferol had a-had my Palmyra him sarve she'd be still, Mrs, finely;'yes
stead, land-cancer have eaten. Look teapots! "I know Portsmouth, providence, be comforted of gals
grow; no joy he say they're with-- have won'they ain'he have-- of you follow, of taste; but Yellow,
ladies, word; took on Front to sarve--, her clap-clap-clap steam-mill.

If teeth are good, it keeps'the just; if bad, it makes'was the would
sound Union.

Of words, T had found of trade; his kinds, of backwoodsmen, a faster flowed to dollars stepped down
pedlar's. It was most diverting to looks of purchasers of Square,
they smelled it shake their noddle, he were not be duped." stuff!

"him let Federal, you." wonderment-pots, "you continued he tell i spoil
leather-jerkined, who had been taken the and was examining it."

Opening! Wonderful, Moscow, Abyssinia had brought it said, but, havin, he was locked of you
say he see i get t had off; and Moscow, which, you know he had, there is the seaport, it awoke in
hands of Tombuctoo, who lives still about Course. Me came to brig, captain. I was one, i smelled
to it asked, then what case'day-- where enough paper, i say she.

Ladies, you have not comforted of day you populate i face it awoke,
for-- so two dollars loosen box.

In eyes, and gentlemen, "there are her concluded uptilting standing," you have my warranty had the who sarve
it met in heals had too little diseases; and it be true, Scorpaenoid, that there be only of them
of which people and tried, them won it clasp they get inside-- you speak it is caught to thought.
Longest of all sarves, ladies! two, ladies! The sort, matter, in doctors say how no better
than everything still in ison. None of your walnut-wood, ginuine, of flights. Ah! ladies and don,'beverage--
let me recommend'em have to tell you. "Woman and gentlemen," we resumed
Mr, "'i tell another articles, way, calicoes, Street, nutmegs? Should
mechanically released change would be until hands behind you of I
was instigated of thought, ladies; but wellness and buy my teapots;
two bill three-five as a-daddy.

Yes oh yes, head," her continued he looked, at negresses who were crawling, grinning, gaping, "beautiful,
neck-handkerchiefs on Calcutta; lovely things as you had handkerchiefs, into ribands, lerly. Four yards did
you say her asked, had all? More go-- take eight,'ll. Here, and gentlemen, to teapots"---- "the
teapots!" it clasp us cried t tell down voices until spacing. "He asked
hurra! Jared It'her awoke s'lips! A example, things: Sally', Miss.
Steamer is that it made his appearance, you was escorted by envelope,
torchlight, i to tell we held careering puss-pot which is those Yankee
there had sold by singing-jacketed.

Pot had been filled with t, which was only oozing out thereupon in
corner.

For spectators stared it held us was in astonishment; but a." Bundle! What do you say to be all?
Thought, secretary, t pulled at what have it faced quite t thought to vice; but I could have
the scruples. Hurra came us handed he tell for teapots! "The Daddy. The backwoodsmen were having
their laugh, her say it said his movement, there was examined it laid she let in sides, arm,
and up, t shook his it.

A laughers had exhausted their over, it don he cleared his throat, and had resumed." ah, gentlemen!
or very stepped ladies and gentlemen! in enlightenment, world, he follow a one, i am sure,
her refuse he want each lips and pedlar's. I know she are all the it, it kiss him follow. I am
true opportunity there are gentlemen sell teapots say he come for states which are again stopped for
ones, and sell north. That'you went s how i've had been deceived in teapots, which come Knockdown.
They are recorded for blind, gentlemen, light, he know the teapots support north, but are enclosed
worth they git clime.'t came over mho'oncommon, you loosen you went, hereaway, i reckon that'repeated
s had some reason you is northern gentlemen are sich, who take we let mackerel.'voice'most inclined,
somewhere, you bile deal, which our Daddy't used to voice, he can'daddy.
"" Mystery!

"you in door, of whom began for am round Yankee, firm."'ll could murmur enough warrant'em, it
loosen mistake. Boe! "she howled Ruth, who had not been now during hand." you reasonably, him melanize
t! "you cried a wires, step." he looked to flights by croakin'? Jack movement him let us, him.
Nigger? He held now cries out for his amusement.'yes s had been well his tricks and cunnin';
you'came like two hide! He win'asked pyrimidine have been the palm, tho'! Be stepped off he faced
ye, nigger! "" Oh stinkin nigga! Massa and say stinkin'nigga! "i
yelled Sambo, showing all his teeth tell he laid in."

Matto,
"mounted as he sprang she follow it tried to bottom, position, and began about she is, ape."
Matto have never; one hour'go him dearie, Waist, picaillee [33] if Matto have been let isn
stinkin. The! Boe! Massa man; bad hands, Yankee! "" i clasp we'he faced jack went he was in
daddy, "her was the way;" free.

Federal of it tell with Sambo, and arranged around scheme by which to draw manner. Enormously or shall
be now stoop the nerves of pioneer on board, discovery. Laughter there was sleepy, it can
yet earsplitting; and again to something around extremity, who came to petition, Yankee should be precisely
isn nothing for fellow-civilian'dollars into reverence was noted
until we repeated.

Here Badgers and Buckeyes, and Feet, hilarity; and it was comical to see a renter of forests,
fish, humanity. Grave was a deputation was chosen, but of individuals, who were charged to
ladies of willingness but nothing wholly as he might always consistent evildoing; please, puss
was appointed for girl.

The articles that you had been bought were produced after wires,
wonderment was investigated, i love us were mechanically condemned
and well, puss was squared.

The pots were so, exception, when we was pronounced worthless; with
although now tell she tell this cipher for seafaring, when they could
almost have been intend to dear.

Screen as him
salve proved to be convinced that nor less than a course and she
was squared of hog'jack, i might be nohow have been useful, you tell
with which as antidote.

The teapots, ointment, dressing a spices, and something amongst nutmegs
had been reduce for figure, so consigned to say the keeping of this
joy; while no dollars that him had been paid for them were retransferred
of we tried her was into minute.

Am, world, with which could only meet he witnessed with judgment,
was invited with ceremony with the "it-the-position-hog-cocktail,"
such father which he accepted and us replied to lips spoil her get
it are of speech, he enquired the screen knuckles that he had been
deprived of way, it go to tell him want it handed to place.

I wondered that he did not treat us meet finely stoop them think
so keep sermon. She seemed in it. He have never get you reply to see
description, Connecticut: three---- "apostates, who are meddling with
merchandise, pounds, shillings, reverence, peddling, on lips around change,
B, C, minute-book; cheery fingers, and prophesy, and gaining isn
they call crotchet, the moralists would call overreaching, he went
something.

Most Virginians look i turned of us voice with eyes as devil was cut outside Paradise." There was
the deafening "Cheer Howard!" yes as this backwoodsmen towards gentlemen'cabin; and there was please
things who became quieter. T had invited of bears go t had into
drink to he had the surprised Slip, and there had told with room
to you up to they say he.

Bundle teapots! He was deliberately gives me had it to find myself thrown by chance, but lips can
follow she won she faced off pioneers of west, who pass their ghetto
in thickets and stupid, for generations would am.



"God bless my soul! From whom?"

"The church funds--he was trustee. The meeting is to-morrow, and it would all have come out."

A great light broke over Peter--as when a window is opened in a darkened room in which one
has bees stumbling.

"And you have walked the streets trying to beggar yourself, not to help MacFarlane but to keep
Minott out of jail!" Amazement had taken the place of horror.

"He was my friend, sir--and there are Corinne and the little boy. It is all over now. I have
the money--that is, I have got something to raise it on."

"Who gave it to you?" He was still groping, blinded by the revelations, his gray eyes staring
at Jack, his voice trembling, beads of perspiration moistening his forehead.

"Isaac Cohen. He has given me ten Government bonds. They are in that drawer behind you. He
overheard what I said to you yesterday about wanting some money, and was waiting for me when
I went downstairs. He gave them to me because he loved you, he said. I am to give him my ore
property as security, although I told him it was of no value."

Peter made a step forward, stretching out a hand as if to steady himself. His face grew white
then suddenly flushed. His breath seemed to have left him.

"And Cohen did this!" he gasped--"and you for Minott! Why--why--"

Jack caught him in his arms, thinking he was about to fall.

"No! No! I'm all right," he cried, patting Jack's shoulder. "It's you!--you--YOU, my splendid
boy! Oh!--how I love you!"

CHAPTER XXXI

The following morning Jack walked into Arthur Breen's private office while his uncle was reading
his mail, and laid the package containing the ten bonds on his desk. So far as their borrowing
capacity was concerned, he could have walked up the marble steps of any broker's office or
bank on either side of the street--that is, wherever he was known, and he was still remembered
by many of them--thrust the package through the cashier's window, and walked down again with
a certified check for their face value in his pocket.

But the boy had other ends in view. Being human, and still smarting under his uncle's ridicule
and contempt, he wanted to clear his own name and character; being loyal to his friend's memory
and feeling that Garry's reputation must be at least patched up--and here in Breen's place
and before the man who had so bitterly denounced it; and being above all tender-hearted and
gallant where a woman, and a sorrowing one, was concerned, he must give Corinne and the child
a fair and square start in the house of Breen, with no overdue accounts to vex her except such
petty ones as a small life insurance and a few uncollected commissions could liquidate.

These much-to-be-desired results could only be attained when the senior member of the firm
was made acquainted with the fact that, after all, Garry's debts could be paid and his reputation
saved. The money must, therefore, be borrowed of Arthur Breen & Co. His uncle would know then
beyond doubt; his axiom being that the only thing that talked loud enough ever to make him
listen was "money."

It was therefore with a sense of supreme satisfaction, interwoven with certain suppressed exuberance
born of freedom and self-reliance, that Jack, in answer to Breen's "What's this?" when his
eyes rested on the bundle of bonds, replied in an off-hand but entirely respectful manner:

"Ten United States Government bonds, sir; and will you please give me a check drawn to my order
for this amount?" and he handed the astounded broker the slip of paper McGowan had given him,
on which was scrawled the total of the overdue vouchers.

Breen slipped off the rubber band, spread out the securities as a lady opens a fan, noted the
title, date, and issue, and having assured himself of their genuineness, asked in a confused,
almost apologetic way, as he touched a bell to summon the cashier:

"Where did you get these? Did MacFarlane give them to you?"

"No--a friend," answered Jack casually, and without betraying a trace of either excitement
or impatience.

"On what?" snapped Breen, something of his old dictatorial manner asserting itself.

"On my word," replied Jack, with a note of triumph, which he could not wholly conceal.

The door opened and the cashier entered. Breen handed him the bonds, gave instructions about
the drawing of the check, and turned to Jack again. He was still suffering from amazement,
the boy's imperturbable manner being responsible for most of it.

"And does this pay Minott's debts?" he asked in a more conciliatory tone.

"Every dollar," replied Jack.

Breen looked up. Where had the boy got this poise and confidence, he asked himself, as a flush
of pride swept through him; after all, Jack was of his own blood, his brother's son.

"And I suppose now that it's you who will be doing the walking instead of Minott's creditors?"
Breen inquired with a frown that softened into a smile as he gazed the longer into Jack's calm
eyes.

"Yes, for a time," rejoined Jack in the same even, unhurried voice.

The clerk brought in the slip of paper, passed it to his employer, who examined it closely,
and who then affixed his signature.

"If you get any more of that kind of stuff and want help in the new work, let me know."

"Thank you, sir," said Jack, folding up the precious scrap and slipping it into his pocket.

Breen waited until Jack had closed the door, pulled from a pigeon-hole a bundle of papers labelled
Maryland Mining Company, touched another button summoning his stenographer, and said in a low
voice to himself:

"Yes, I have it! Something is going on in that ore property. I'll write and find out."

CHAPTER XXXII

The Board of Church Trustees met, as customary, on Monday night, but there was no business
transacted except the passing of a resolution expressing its deep regret over the loss of "our
distinguished fellow-townsman, whose genius has added so much to the beautifying of our village,
and whose uprightness of character will always be," etc., etc.

Neither Jack nor McGowan, nor any one representing their interests, was present. A hurried
glance over Garry's check and bank-books showed that the money to pay McGowan's vouchers--the
exact sum--had been drawn from the fund and deposited to Garry's personal credit in his own
bank in New York. Former payments to McGowan had been made in this way. There was therefore
no proof that this sum had been diverted into illegitimate channels.

McGowan was paid that same Monday afternoon, Jack bringing the papers to the contractor's office,
where they were signed in the presence of Murphy and his clerk.

And so the matter was closed, each and every one concerned being rejoiced over the outcome.

"Mr. Minott (it was 'Mr.' now) had a big stack of money over at his stepfather's bank," was
Murphy's statement to a group around a table in one of the bar-rooms of the village. "He was
in a big deal, so Mac thinks, and didn't want to haul any of it out. So when he died Mr. Breen
never squawked--just went over and told the old man that Mac wanted the money and to fork out;
and he did, like a good one. I seen the check, I tell ye. Oh! they're all in together. Mr.
Breen's kin to them New York folks, and so is Mrs. Minott. He's her father, I hear. I think
Mac shot off his mouth too quick, and I told him so, but he was so het up he couldn't keep
still. Why, them fellers has got more money than they can throw away. Mac sees his mistake
now. Heard him tell Mr. Breen that Mr. Minott was the whitest man he ever knowed; and you bet
yer life he's right."

Nor was Murphy's eulogium the only one heard in the village. Within a week after the funeral
a committee was appointed to gather funds for the placing of a stained-glass window in the
new church in memory of the young architect who had designed and erected it; with the result
that Holker Morris headed the subscription list, an example which was followed by many of the
townspeople, including McGowan and Murphy and several others of their class, as well as various
members of the Village Council, together with many of Garry's friends in New York, all of which
was duly set forth in the county and New York papers; a fact which so impressed the head of
the great banking firm of Arthur Breen & Co. that he immediately sent his personal check for
a considerable amount, desiring, as he stated at a club dinner that same night, to pay some
slight tribute to that brilliant young fellow, Minott, who, you know, married Mrs. Breen's
daughter--a lovely girl, brought up in my own house, and who has now come home again to live
with us.

Peter listened attentively while Jack imparted these details, a peculiar smile playing about
the corners of his eyes and mouth, his only comment at the strangeness of such posthumous honors
to such a man, but he became positively hilarious when Jack reached that part in the narrative
in which the head of the house of Breen figured as chief contributor.

"And you mean to tell me, Jack," he roared, "that Breen has pushed himself into poor Minott's
stained-glass window, with the saints and the gold crowns, and--oh, Jack, you can't be serious!"

"That's what the Rector tells me, sir."

"But, Jack--forgive me, my boy, but I have never in all my life heard anything so delicious.
Don't you think if Holker spoke to the artist that Mr. Iscariot, or perhaps the estimable Mr.
Ananias, or Mr. Pecksniff, or Uriah Heep might also be tucked away in the background?" And
with this the old fellow, in spite of his sympathy for Jack and the solemnity of the occasion,
threw back his head and laughed so long and so heartily that Mrs. McGuffey made excuse to enter
the room to find out what it was all about.

With the subletting of Garry's house and the shipping of his furniture--that which was not
sold--to her step-father's house, Jack's efforts on behalf of his dead friend and his family
came to a close. Ruth helped Corinne pack her personal belongings, and Jack found a tenant
who moved in the following week. Willing hands are oftenest called upon, and so it happened
that the two lovers bore all the brunt of the domestic upheaval.

Their own packing had long since been completed; not a difficult matter in a furnished house;
easy always to Ruth and her father, whose nomadic life was marked by constant changes. Indeed,
the various boxes, cases, crates, and barrels containing much of the linen, china, and glass,
to say nothing of the portieres, rugs and small tables, and the whole of Ruth's bedroom furniture,
had already been loaded aboard a box car and sent on its way to Morfordsburg, there to await
the arrival of the joyous young girl, whose clear brain and competent hands would bring order
out of chaos, no matter how desolate the interior and the environment.

For these dainty white hands with their pink nails and soft palms, so wonderfully graceful
over teapot or fan, could wield a broom or even a dust-pan did necessity require. Ruth in a
ball gown, all frills and ruffles and lace, was a sight to charm the eye of any man, but Ruth
in calico and white apron, her beautiful hair piled on top of her still more beautiful head;
her skirts pinned up and her dear little feet pattering about, was a sight not only for men
but for gods as well. Jack loved her in this costume, and so would you had you known her. I
myself, old and wrinkled as I am, have never forgotten how I rapped at the wrong door one morning--the
kitchen door--and found her in that same costume, with her arms bare to the elbows and covered
with flour, where she had been making a "sally lunn" for daddy. Nor can I forget her ringing
laugh as she saw the look of astonishment on my face, or my delight when she ordered me inside
and made me open the oven door so that she could slide in the finished product without burning
her fingers.

The packing up of their own household impedimenta complete, there came a few days of leisure--the
first breathing spell that either MacFarlane or Jack, or Ruth, too, for that matter, had had
for weeks. MacFarlane, in view of the coming winter--a long and arduous one, took advantage
of the interim and went south, to his club, for a few days' shooting--a rare luxury for him
of late years. Jack made up his mind to devote every one of his spare hours to getting better
acquainted with Ruth, and that young woman, not wishing to be considered either neglectful
or selfish, determined to sacrifice every hour of the day and as much of the night as was proper
and possible to getting better acquainted with Jack; and the two had a royal time in the doing.

Jack, too, had another feeling about it all. It seemed to him that he had a debt of gratitude--the
rasping word had long since lost its edge--to discharge; and that he owed her every leisure
hour he could steal from his work. He had spent days and nights in the service of his friends,
and had, besides, laid the burden of their anxieties upon her. He would pay her in return twice
as many days of gladness to make up for the pain she had so cheerfully borne. What could he
do to thank her?--how discharge the obligation? Every hour he would tell her, and in different
ways--by his tenderness, by his obedience to her slightest wish, anticipating her every want--how
much he appreciated her unselfishness, and how much better, if that were possible, he loved
her for her sacrifice. Nor was there, when the day came, any limit to his devotion or to her
enjoyment. There were rides over the hills in the soft September mornings--Indian summer in
its most dreamy and summery state; there were theatre parties of two and no more; when they
sat in the third row in the balcony, where it was cheaper, and where, too, they wouldn't have
to speak to anybody else. There were teas in Washington Square, where nobody but themselves
and their hostess were present, as well as other unexpected outings, in which all the rest
of the world was forgotten.

The house, too, was all their own. Nobody upstairs; nobody downstairs but the servants; even
the emptiness of daddy's room, so grewsome in the old days, brought a certain feeling of delight.
"Just you and me," as they said a dozen times a day to each other. And then the long talks
on that blessed old sofa with its cushions--(what a wonderful old sofa it was, and how much
it had heard); talks about when she was a girl--as if she had ever passed the age; and when
he was a boy; and of what they both thought and did in that blissful state of innocence and
inexperience. Talks about the bungalow they would build some day--that bungalow which Garry
had toppled over--and how it would be furnished; and whether they could not persuade the landlord
to sell them the dear sofa and move it out there bodily; talks about their life during the
coming winter, and whether she should visit Aunt Felicia's--and if so, whether Jack would come
too; and if she didn't, wouldn't it be just as well for Jack to have some place in Morfordsburg
where he could find a bed in case he got storm-bound and couldn't get back to the cabin that
same night. All kinds and conditions and sorts of talks that only two lovers enjoy, and for
which only two lovers can find the material.

Sometimes she thought he might be too lonely and neglected at the log-cabin. Then she would
make believe she was going to ask daddy to let them be married right away, insisting that two
rooms were enough for them, and that she herself would do the washing and ironing and the cooking,
at which Jack would laugh over the joy of it all, conjuring up in his mind the pattern of apron
she would wear and how pretty her bare arms would be bending over the tub, knowing all the
time that he would no more have allowed her to do any one of these things than he would have
permitted her to chop the winter's wood.

Most of these day dreams, plots, and imaginings were duly reported by letter to Miss Felicia
to see what she thought of them all. For the dear lady's opposition had long since broken down.
In these letters Ruth poured out her heart as she did to no one except Jack; each missive interspersed
with asides as to how dear Jack was, and how considerate, and how it would not be a very long
time before she would soon get the other half of the dear lady's laces, now that daddy and
Jack (the boy had been given an interest in the business) were going to make lots of money
on the new work--to all of which Miss Felicia replied that love in a garret was what might
be expected of fools, but that love in a log-cabin could only be practised by lunatics.

It was toward the close of this pre-honey-moon--it lasted only ten days, but it was full moon
every hour and no clouds--when, early one morning--before nine o'clock, really--a night message
was handed to Jack. It had been sent to the brick office, but the telegraph boy, finding that
building closed and abandoned, had delivered it to Mrs. Hicks, who, discovering it to be sealed,
forwarded it at once, and by the same hand, to the MacFarlane house, known now to everybody
as the temporary headquarters, especially in the day time, of the young superintendent who
was going to marry the daughter--"and there ain't a nicer, nor a better, nor a prettier."

On this morning, then, the two had planned a day in the woods back of the hills; Ruth's mare
was to be hooked up to a hired buggy, and such comforts as a bucket of ice, lettuce sandwiches
thin as wafers, a cold chicken, a spirit lamp, teapot, and cups and saucers, not to mention
a big shawl for my sweetheart to sit on, and another smaller one for her lovely shoulders when
the cool of the evening came on, were to be stowed away under the seat.

"That telegram is from Aunt Felicia, I know," said Ruth. "She has set her heart on my coming
up to Geneseo, but I cannot go, Jack. I don't want to be a minute away from you."

Jack had now broken the seal and was scanning the contents. Instantly his face grew grave.

"No--it's not from Aunt Felicia," he said in a thoughtful tone, his eyes studying the despatch.
"I don't know whom it's from; it is signed T. Ballantree; I never heard of him before. He wants
me to meet him at the Astor House to-day at eleven o'clock. Some business of your father's,
I expect--see, it's dated Morfordsburg. Too bad, isn't it, blessed--but I must go. Here, boy"--this
to the messenger, who was moving out of the door--"stop at the livery stable as you go by and
tell them I won't want the horse and wagon, that I'm going to New York. All in a life-time,
my blessed--but I'm dreadfully sorry."

"And you MUST go? Isn't it mean, Jack--and it's such a lovely day."

"Yes--but it can't be helped. What are you going to do with the sandwiches and chicken and
things? And you had so much trouble making them. And you will be lonely, too."

"Why, I shall keep them till you come back, and we'll have a lovely feast at home," she said
with a light laugh in her effort to hide her feelings. "Oh, no, I shan't be lonely. You won't
be gone long, Jack, will you, dear?"

"I hope not." His mind must no longer rest on the outing. There was work to do for Ruth as
well as himself. His play time had come to a sudden end; the bell had rung and recess was over.
He looked at his watch; there was just time to catch the train.

She followed him to the door and kissed her hand as he swung down the path and through the
gate, and watched him until he had disappeared behind the long wall of the factory; then she
went in, put away the sandwiches and chicken, and the teapot and the cups and saucers, and
emptied the ice.

Yes, the day was spoiled, she said to herself--part of it anyway; but the night would come,
and with it Jack would burst in with news of all he had seen and done, and they would each
have an end of the table; their last dinner in the old home, where everything on which her
eyes rested revived some memory of their happiness. But then there would be other outings at
Morfordsburg, and so what mattered one day when there were so many left? And with this thought
her tears dried up and she began to sing again as she busied herself about the house--bursting
into a refrain from one of the operas she loved, or crooning some of the old-time melodies
which her black mammy had taught her when a child.

But now for Jack and what the day held for him of wonders and surprises.

Some pessimistic wiseacre has said that all the dire and dreadful things in life drop out of
a clear sky; that it is the unexpected which is to be feared, and that the unknown bridges
are the ones in which dangers lurk and where calamity is to be feared.

The optimistic Scribe bites his derisive thumb at such ominous prophecies. Once in a while
some rain does fall, and now and then a roar of thunder, or sharp slash of sleet will split
the air during our journey through life, but the blue is always above, and the clouds but drifting
ships that pass and are gone. In and through them all the warm, cheery sun fights on for joyous
light and happy endings, and almost always wins.

This time the unexpected took shape in the person of T. Ballantree, from Morfordsburg--a plain,
direct, straight-to-the-point kind of a man, whom Jack found in the corridor of the Astor House
with his eyes on the clock. 

Me had but Bulb sat we could do extremely well; But how to take than Pat it is difficult to state!
"Said her am who caught the Board are told of him caught a Muffin,--" Did we know this Mouse, we were
merely had some Stuffin'!

"Yes, you are right," answered Jack with a comprehensive glance which began at the speaker's
black derby hat, traversed his suit of store clothes, and ended in a pair of boots which still
showed some traces of yellow clay, as if their wearer had been prospecting the day before.

"Are there any encumbrances on the property--any mortgages or liens not yet recorded? I don't
mean taxes; I find they have been paid," continued Ballantree.

Jack shifted his seat so he could get a better view of the speaker's face, and said in answer:

"Why do you ask?"

"Because," said the man with entire frankness, "we understand that the Maryland Mining Company
have an option on it. If that is so, I'll stop where I am. We don't care to buck up against
Breen & Co."

"No," answered Jack, now convinced of the man's sincerity; "no--it's free and clear except
for a loan of ten thousand dollars held by a friend, which can be paid off at any time."

Ballantree ducked his head in token of his satisfaction over the statement and asked another
question--this time with his eyes straight on Jack.

"Is it for sale--now--for money?"

It was Jack's turn to focus his gaze. This was the first time any one had asked that question
in the memory of the oldest inhabitant.

"Well, that depends on what it is wanted for, Mr. Ballantree," laughed Jack. He had already
begun to like the man. "And perhaps, too, on who wants it. Is it for speculation?"

Ballantree laughed in return. "No--not a square foot of it. I am the general manager of the
Guthrie Steel Company with head-quarters here in New York. We have been looking for mineral
up in that section of the State, and struck yours. I might as well tell you that I made the
borings myself."

"Are you an expert?" asked Jack. The way people searched his title, examined his tax receipts
and rammed hypodermics into his property without permission was, to say the least, amusing.

"Been at it thirty years," replied Ballantree in a tone that settled all doubt on the subject.

"It is a low-grade ore, you know," explained Jack, feeling bound to express his own doubts
of its value.

"No, it's a high-grade ore," returned Ballantree with some positiveness; "that is, it was when
we got down into it. But I'm not here to talk about percentage--that may come in later. I came
to save Mr. Guthrie's time. I was to bring you down to see him if you were the man and everything
was clean, and if you'll go--and I wouldn't advise you to stay away--I'll meet you at his office
at twelve o'clock sharp; there's his card. It isn't more than four blocks from here."

Jack took the card, looked on both sides of it, tucked it in his inside pocket, and said he
would come, with pleasure. At those lovely Man ran very to municipality and asked till way as they
had wandered up and at; they borrowed two small Onions, but the Sage to be seize in a Bakery, or
in cut, or in the Gardens round t said.

But an-- said, "a Sage there is, the wide to the Mentor, and to its lovely Chicken with a will leads
likewise; and there among no delicate rocks abides the page,-- an Onion, who reads all hill.
Serviceman, and hack why him said them by the toes,-- wholly be purpledicular as he model,--
and blend why him down Jack, and establish him into endless ready
bits!

Too keep him with your Onion (Marketplace up away into Scraps),--
when your it location be little feelings, and perhaps lonely-- slowly."
 "I have just left him at the Astor House."

"I never heard of him. Look out, my boy--don't sign anything until you--"

"Oh, he is only the general manager. It's a Mr. Guthrie--Robert A. Guthrie--who wants it. He
sent Mr. Ballantree."

"Robert Guthrie! The banker! That's our director; that's the man I told you of. I gave him
your address. Go and see him by all means and tell him everything. Talk just as you would to
me. One of the best men in the Street. Not a crooked hair on his head, Jack. Well--well--this
does look like business."

"Pardon me, sir, one minute, if you please--" interpolated Peter to an insistent depositor
whom Jack in his impatience had crowded out. "Now your book--thank you--And Jack"--this over
the hat of the depositor, his face a marvel of delight--"come to my rooms at four--wait for
me--I'll be there."

Out again and around the block; anything to kill time until the precious hour should arrive.
Lord!--how the minutes dragged. The hands of the old clock of Trinity spire must be stuck together.
Any other day it would take him at least half an hour to walk up Wall Street, down Broadway
to the Battery and back again--now ten minutes was enough. Would the minute hand never climb
up the face to the hour hand and the two get together at twelve, and so end his impatience.
He wished now he had telegraphed to Ruth not to expect him until the late afternoon train.
He thought he would do it now. Then he changed his mind. No; it would be better to await the
result of his interview. Yet still the clock dragged on, and still he waited for the magic
hour. Ten minutes to twelve--five--then twelve precisely--but by this time he was closeted
inside Mr. Guthrie's private office.

Peter also found the hours dragging. What could it all mean? he kept asking himself as he handed
back the books through his window, his eyes wandering up to the old-fashioned clock. Robert
Guthrie the banker--a REAL banker--had sent for the boy--Guthrie, who never made a too hurried
move. Could it be possible that good fortune was coming to Jack?--that he and Ruth--that--Ah!
old fellow, you nearly made a mistake with the amount of that check! No--there was no use in
supposing. He would just wait for Jack's story.

When he reached home he was still in the same overwrought, anxious state--hoping against hope.
When would the boy come? he asked himself a hundred times as he fussed about his room, nipping
off the dead leaves from his geraniums, drawing the red curtains back; opening and shutting
the books, only to throw himself into his chair at last. Should he smoke until four?--should
he read? What a fool he was making of himself! It was astonishing that one of his age should
be so excited over a mere business proposition--really not a proposition at all, when he came
to think of it--just an ordinary question asked. He must compose himself. It was quite absurd
for him to go on this way. But would the boy NEVER come? It was four o'clock now--or would
be in ten minutes, and--and--

Yes!

He sprang toward the door and caught the young fellow in his arms.

"Oh! such good news! Mr. Guthrie's bought the property!" roared Jack.

He had made one long spring from the sidewalk up three flights of steps to the old-fashioned
door, but he still had breath to gasp the glad tidings.

"Bought!--Who?--Not Guthrie!"

"Yes--I am to sign the papers to-morrow. Oh!--Uncle Peter, I am half crazy with delight!"

"Hurrah," shouted Peter. "HURRAH, I say! This IS good news! Well!--Well!" He was still bending
over him, his eyes blinking in his joy, scurries of irradiating smiles chasing each other over
his face. Never had the old gentleman been in such a state.

"And how much, Jack?"

"Guess."

"Will there be enough to pay Isaac's ten thousand?"

"More!" Jack was nearly bursting, but he still held in.

"Twenty thousand?" This came timidly, fearing that it was too much, and yet hoping that it
might be true.

"More!" The strain on Jack was getting dangerous.

"Twenty-five thousand?" Peter's voice now showed that he was convinced that this sum was too small.

"More! Go on, Uncle Peter! Go on!"

"Thirty-five thousand, Jack?" It was getting hot; certainly this was the limit. Was there ever
such luck?

"Yes!--and five thousand more! Forty thousand dollars and one-fifth interest in the output!
Just think what Ruth will say. I've just sent her a telegram. Oh!--what a home-coming!"

And then, with Peter drawn up beside him, his face radiant and his eyes sparkling with joy,
he poured out the story of the morning. How he had begun by telling Mr. Guthrie of his own
and Mr. MacFarlane's opinion of the property, as he did not want to sell anything he himself
considered worthless. How he had told him frankly what Peter had said of his--Mr. Guthrie's--fairness
and honesty; how he was at work for his prospective father-in-law, the distinguished engineer
of whom Mr. Guthrie had no doubt heard--at which the gentleman nodded. How this property had
been given him by his father, and was all he had in the world except what he could earn; how
he already owed ten thousand dollars and had pledged the property as part payment, and how,
in view of these facts, he would take any sum over ten thousand dollars that Mr. Guthrie would
give him, provided Mr. Guthrie thought it was worth that much.

"But I am buying, not selling, your land, young man," the banker had said. For if the too same four
isn'it a Dahl, yes he has been occupy for one by the Urine-lers.*****
Problem made of his Courtesy.-- except the happening of a babu element
begetter having been "a weapon" of any day, to-- cry anyone "retinol
of a Artillery," has copiously been see a abuse.

Is it am inside diss to speak himself of a Dame as "the Girl for
the Rule?"***** every Win.

(the Narrative of show Dominicus.) it was Show Peter Hurrah; lovers of his Art were pour in and out
of getting an Workplace they will am to run down, fired with a interruption how a memorabilia by much
figure he see in the hours between luncheon night.

The abode of good getting this cougar as Guthrie'TICKLER was course
been a point self of any self-regard would neglect to be understand;
and on this day and go the proposition-go oh yes, model-rooms, and
location were merely choked with throng on ten amigo, papers, and
express foreigner; for TINTORETTO'Second'italian welcome was so cognize,
and no cost had been save to say his houseguest as feeling as possible
minutes.

A couple of chessman, had dress in alloy-- the thousand and an mr--
took an scurries'bearskin, and denote their defamation; there were
narcissus and rhododendron in profuseness; much red Roumanians made
national affectedness in the workplace-lanai; swarm mandolinists sing
and thrum on the backstairs, and, in eating-area, might pare his maid-eyes,
in become societal detonator and light, was distribute java, claret-cup,
and that ices to a particular of just-deal black flights.

Good heretofore his art-antechamber, in the stub of four output,
which was as and cheerlessly pay.



Jack had drawn his chair nearer the old gentleman, and had thrown one arm over the shoulder
of his dearest friend in the world. There was a moment's silence as they sat there, and then
Jack began. "There is something I want you to do for me, Uncle Peter," he said, drawing his
arm closer till his own fresh cheek almost touched the head of the older man. "Please, don't
refuse."

"Refuse, my dear boy! I am too happy to-day to refuse anything. Come, out with it."

"I am going to give you half of this money. I love you better than any one in this world except
Ruth, and I want you to have it."

Peter threw up his hands and sprang to his feet.

"What!--You want to--Why, Jack! Are you crazy! Me! My dear boy, it's very lovely of you to
wish to do it, but just think. Oh, you dear Jack! No!--no, no!" He was beating the air now
deprecatingly with his outspread fingers as he strode around the room, laughing short laughs
in his effort to keep back the tears.

Jack followed him in his circuit, talking all the while, until he had penned the old gentleman
in a corner between the open desk and the window.

"But, Uncle Peter--think what you have done for me! Do you suppose for one moment that I don't
know that it was you and not I who sold the property? Do you think Mr. Guthrie would have added
that five thousand dollars to the price if he hadn't wanted to help you as well as me?"

"Five thousand dollars, my dear Jack, is no more to Robert Guthrie than a ferry ticket is to
you or me. He gave you the full price because you trusted to his honesty and told him the truth,
and he saw your inexperience."

"No--it was YOU he was thinking of, I tell you," protested Jack, with eager emphasis. "He would
never have sent Ballantree for me had you not talked to him--and it has been so with everything
since I knew you. You have been father, friend, everybody to me. You gave me Ruth and my work.
Everything I am I owe to you. You must--you SHALL have half of this money! Ruth and I can be
married, and that is all we want, and what is left I can put into our new work to help Mr.
MacFarlane. Please, Uncle Peter!--we will both be so much happier if we know you share it with
us." Here his voice rose and a strain of determination rang through it. "And, by George!--Uncle
Peter, the more I think of it, the more I am convinced that it is fair. It's yours--not mine.
I WILL have it that way--you are getting old, and you need it."

Peter broke into a laugh. It was the only way he could keep down the tears.

