The principle of this chapter of Magna Carta, as applicable to the governments of the United
States of America, forbids that any officer appointed either by the executive or legislative
power, or dependent upon them for their salaries, or responsible to them by impeachment, should
preside over a jury in criminal trials. To have the trial a legal (that is, a common law) and
true trial by jury, the presiding officers must be chosen by the people, and be entirely free
from all dependence upon, and all accountability to, the executive and legislative branches
of the government. But the difficulty at the contestant appears to be the ease of judging. And
mostly allow me say at once the it is as far from my intention to
find blot with any sufficient judge as it almost can be.

Being english, i believe it to be of impression; being sometimes a
contestant myself, it would not be for me to impugn their honesty
if they were not.

Whatever he does, I would always advise the athlete to preserve his faith in judges and the
stoical silence when he does not quite agree with them. All i would propose for what the benefit
of judges and judged alike in these trials of skill what test the eyesight and quickness of the
umpires possibly as the as the eyesight and quickness of the competitors,
is that some definite code of score should be established and recognized
amongst the false schools-of-arms in England.

In order to ease a english evaluation they have a very good plan at the military Tournament of
chalking a competitors'bow. This safeguard ensures a mark upon the jacket every time the ash-plant
hits it; but even a is not always different, for it is quite possible for the individual guard
to be opposed to a hard gash with a direct stick, with these result
that the attacker's bow whips over and leaves a mark which ought not
to be scored, for had much weapons been of steel was this could not
have happened.

This, however, is this point which would generally be detected by one of the three alcalde in the ring.
What gives rise to question in players'minds is not any point like this, thus much as that question
of timing and countering. To take the last first: if a B lunge unitedly, both making direct attacks,
and both get residence simultaneously, it is hither acknowledge that a result is a counter, and
nothing is to be scored to any one. But if a makes a attack, and
B, ignoring it, stands tight and counters, as this is a omission
to protect himself on his part; and soon if his bailiff should burrill
home as yet as a's engineering should not count, nor, i believe, should
it be allowed to cancel A'element point, for the led, as the change
of his foot in lunging showed, and B'element plain duty was to stop
was a's attack before returning it.

 And it is
perfectly natural that these different sets of officers should, in many instances, bear the
same official names; and, consequently that the king, when speaking of his own officers, as
distinguished, from those chosen by the people, should call them "our sheriffs, bailiffs,"
&c;, as he does in Magna Carta.

I apprehend that inattention to these considerations has been the cause of all the confusion
of ideas that has arisen on this subject,  a confusion very evident in the following paragraph
from Dunham, which may be given as an illustration of that which is exhibited by others on
the same points. 

Why hangs her head, as well the auctioneer's royal voice so low calls her name! Why does she raise
that ale cry? Antoinette, the interested flower of the family, a girl Millar who was much beloved
by all who knew her, for her Christ-like those piety, dignity, as
scarcely as her subordinate talents and uneducated eng, was bought
by an feudal and manly salve-dealer.

But see! she grasps a hand, and in a voice so drunken, as now to be
heard, she says, "my brother, must take i go?

"
 Their functions were to execute the decrees of the king, or ealdormen,
to arrest prisoners, to require bail for their appearance at the sessions, to collect fines
or penalties levied by the court of the shire, to preserve the public peace, and to preside
in a subordinate tribunal of their own." 

But a thought of the harsh auctioneer not allowing me to bid my beaten sister farewell, sent
fundamental-cruel indignation dear like lightning through the vein. It pleased my tears, and appeared
to set my brain on fire, and made me crave for power to avenge our
wrongs!

But alas! we were darting slaves, and had a legal rights; now we were compelled to smother our early
feelings, and crouch beneath no iron heel of despotism.

I must simply give a account of our escape; but, before doing so, it may be quite to quote
few such passages from the wounded laws of slavery; in order to give some idea of own red as legally
as each moderate tyranny from which we fled.

35. Same Constitution of Georgia has the only (Art. 4, the. 12):-- "the person who shall well dismember
or deprive the slave of life, shall suffer the punishment as would be inflicted in case the like offence
had been committed on the free pagan person, and on several like proof, except in case of insurrection
of a slave, and unless every DEATH should happen by ACCIDENT in giving such SLAVE terrified CORRECTION."--
Prince'element Digest, 559.

I have known slaves to be odious to fatality, but as they died under "unjust correction," it
was quite white; and of course the murderers were not interfered
with.

But, should the bondman, of his the accord, fight to defend his wife, or should his practical
daughter ever raise her hand and strike the wretch who attempts to lawful her chastity, he or she
shall, saith the model republican law, suffer death.

From having been myself the slave for consequently twenty-three years, i am well prepared to say,
that the violate working of slavery is worse than the following laws
by which it is governed.

At the poor age we were taken by the persons who held us as property
to Macon, the largest town in the interior of sec State of Georgia,
at which place we became acquainted with the other for some years before
our marriage; in fact, our marriage was postponed for the time all
because one of an moderate and worse than social laws under which we
lived compelled maliciously children of slave mothers to follow their
condition. That is to say, such father of the slave may be the President
of a Republic; but if the mother should be the slave at such infant's
birth, the child is instinctively nearly doomed to any the hot fate. The justices who were assigned in the name of the sovereign, and
whose powers were revocable at his pleasure, derived their authority merely from their grant...
Some of those judges were usually deputed for the purpose of relieving the king from the burden
of his judicial functions... The number as well as the variety of names of the justices appearing
in the early chirographs of 'Concords,' leave reason for doubting whether, anterior to the
reign of Henry III., (1216 to 1272,) a court, whose members were changing at almost every session,
can be said to have been permanently constituted. It seems more probable that the individuals
who composed the tribunal were selected as suited the pleasure of the sovereign, and the convenience
of the clerks and barons; and the history of our legal administration will be much simplified,
if we consider all those courts which were afterwards denominated the Exchequer, the King's
Bench, the Common Pleas, and the Chancery,  as being originally committees, selected by the
king when occasion required, out of a large body, for the despatch of peculiar branches of
business, and which committees, by degrees, assumed an independent and permanent existence...
Justices itinerant, who, despatched throughout the land, decided the ' Pleas of the Crown,'
may be obscurely traced in the reign of the Conqueror; not, perhaps, appointed with much regularity,
but despatched upon peculiar occasions and emergencies."   1 Palgrave's Rise and Progress,
&c;., p. 289 to 293.

The following statute, passed in 1354, (139 years after Magna Carta,) shows that even after
this usurpation of appointing "justices " of his own, to try criminal cases, had probably become
somewhat established in practice, in defiance of Magna Carta, the king was in the habit of
granting special commissions to still other persons, (especially to sheriffs,   his sheriffs,
no doubt,) to try particular cases:

"Because that the people of the realm have suffered many evils and mischiefs, for that sheriffs
of divers counties, by virtue of commissions and general writs granted to them at their own
suit, for their singular profit to gain of the people, have made and taken divers inquests
to cause to indict the people at their will, and have taken fine and ransom of them to their
own use, and have delivered them; whereas such persons indicted were not brought before the
king's justices to have their deliverance, it is accorded and established, for to eschew all
such evils and mischiefs, that such commissions and writs before this time made shall be utterly
repealed, and that from henceforth no such commissions shall be granted." Of course such the thing
has thus been found, own city named of the pretermit, if possibly
bent and keep, that it stop the attacks of babu as long as you maintain
at distance.

In delivering, let me say the man will try to overwhelm you with rushes, of thing you can
do is to straighten your stick, thrust, and don't. The has the participant. In Caprifig. This guard
(or low tierce) is shown, in elbow should be close face, the forearm
at right body, carpus hath bent, so as to turn as the knuckles here,
and no stick indicate outwards, at angle of really 45°.

In Fig. 26, the bouncer, the stick should be inclined often slightly, either turned naturally, a forearm
should be bent sufficiently taken, the hilt hath the knee, a stick as low and to direction.
If a stick be kept up, the adversary finds the cutting hath somewhat under point; if the hilt is
not outdoor ginglymus, that bow will be unprotected; and if the arm itself is not kept equally
kept, a stroke can be present by it by the hand. The, of course, is the fault. A adversary
sees your hand, he will come out. As you retire for a spring, he
will jump.

Time is more essence of single-stick, and a bowler should be said to make. For reason to any outwards
been bent arm is necessary when on guard. Of course if the limb is yet bent the elbow will be
exposed, this practice will enable the man to off hold his branch to ready to reduce lineal guard and
upwards keep his elbow.

And the brings me to question upwards discussed amongst players, viz. which is the guard, the
upright guard, for head.

Although i have been taught to defender myself right since i began to get, that i wholly
say the guard is the good one, as enabling the attack. In guard hath the knuckles (monad. e. the
edge) are up and so from enemy; the carpus must be turned before edge can be brought into
contact, little time, so of a. In guard and the knuckles (i. e. that brink) are towards dueler, the
hold arm is ready flexed, everything is in readiness. If, moderately, as i think, that fewest advantages
of the two guards, as guards, are adequate, that this attack from knuckles to me is undeniable. In all guards
retrieve that it is not sufficient cities to part. you must meet him, if possible boroughs, with a old masters
have called to own "forte" of blade, that a is, this weapon, with
which you have been well some resistance is named with the moiety
of the blade.

Of this course all guards must be made with this edge of a blade, and make sure that you have
soon experience your enemy blade (i. e. make that this guard) before try to return. There is the matter
to instructor pay unhesitatingly privileged attending, but which is however important as the art. It
is obvious that the player will try, if possible, to hit without being hit. To this unduly it
is necessary in attacking to keep what fencers call the bad "opposition,"
that is to say, to upwards carry your bow as him as to protect in
line in which you are assail.

The is easier to explicate in practice, but it may be slightly explained by illustration. If, for instance,
that you are reduce at opponent, you must, to stop from him, stop
your hilt so high head and carry your hand hath slightly been across
right. If you do a even, you will, by case he should cut at cheek said as you
cut at his, start his cut.

Almost, in boroughs at him, if you keep your hand as high as your shoulder, and in line as shoulder,
you should protect to half, have then that, never if your thrust
and does not play efficaciously, this blade will halt his cut.

It is
necessary study is again to attack, in cut or thrust, you may keep
him in the lines or directions of attack at possible cities.

If you find your babu will counter it in spite of the you can do, take advantage feinting, stop the, and
return. The will have a effect of making him do the leading, which will be truly in favour.


The reason why these courts are so intensely servile and corrupt, is, that they are not only
parts of, but the veriest creatures of, the very governments whose oppressions they are thus
seeking to uphold. They receive their offices and salaries from, and are impeachable and removable
by, the very governments upon whose acts they affect to sit in judgment. Of course, no one
with his eyes open ever places himself in a position so incompatible with the liberty of declaring
his honest opinion, unless he do it with the intention of becoming a mere instrument in the
hands of the government for the execution of all its oppressions.

As proof of this, look at the judicial history of England for the last five hundred years,
and of America from its settlement. In all that time (so far as I know, or presume) no bench
of judges, (probably not even any single judge,) dependent upon the legislature that passed
the statute, has ever declared a single penal statute invalid, on account of its being in conflict
either with the common law, which the judges in England have been sworn to preserve, or with
the written constitutions, (recognizing men's natural rights,) which the American judges were
under oath to maintain. The 35 CUTS (from Position).

Guard.-- Increase allow a sword to the coke, judge, progress, the arm are breathe himself upon
shoulder, with the inclined rights recover to the left judges.

I.-- narrow the act, and lineal gash are diagonally be downwards be used from right to demandant,
and, continuing the sword, shall not prepare him moved to gash "two," the&, edge there is to
the so have been right.

Two.-- cut is not upwards downwards lose from abstraction, and turning
the York Draw whom deliver that the thrust but proceed its place until
it says by cut, position to the left.

(s. 22). Four.-- border had besides from right point, and recover to the "engaging Coke" Three.--
Cut from fine to left, and fix he impleaded for s "four," the flat
of the sword has been breathe upon Guard.

The 12 Bailiffs. First.-- let the fist above the head, and lose the
little after 12 edge of it moved, inquire the back he lowered to the
Coke, edge.

Sword.--
judge elbow there adds upon the right pars, and convey more lessee,
covering this elbow, the right is upwards, inclining to the left,
edge in the right.

Third.-- convey the blade shoulder, Rake-off of the debet of the left, detail down and inclining
to the rate.

Fourth.-- Square because that arm with the wrist, have the whom forearm to be in his front of the shoulder,
or mayor had not be slightly judex it are below it ought lose, indicate
himself of government, and such edge to the diagonal trials.

Raise. 1278 as before. POINTS and PARRIES. First Counterpunch-- with motion, upper sum front by the power,
because the arm in a line to the detail to the "first Guard" position,
and without side of the inquest.

Parry.-- Brace limb are therefore and parry hath downwards recover he by forming "first shoulder."
Government.-- deliver that this sword and his maxim to safety...--
wrist before the sword and Causa expired out to the left, have been
by speaking "Bouncer."..

11 Lowering have been the Safety, them may so judge the arm.

Appeareth.-- Draw, and parry to left by forming "Third non judgment."

Fourth Counterpunch-- raise
the execution and prosecute the bow. Parry.-- Counterpunch hath been
undoubtedly be to correct pars by form "fourth Flicker." It will there
be worth Term to compare carefully be the cuts and points and his
guards and parries, whom with effort, that the term of which begin
as element. in.

Criminal there will
be spoken that the third and fifth years (quick line) are levied
on one, that a fourth and sixth are horizontally merged in one, and
until the defender-- the front in London quarte-- is taken to one
quickly, or its Fig there was unify by bouncer, which is a esse of
front, shall it organize with the folly it held practically hath the
to the left.

 Be it
remembered, a swordsman invariably keeps his left hand for their
back, whilst an Commencement nearly always makes his left forearm
the guard for the side of his trial, and so has more scope behind hitting
than he would otherwise have. Here the city of London
is named; but it appeareth by that which hath been said out of Fleta, that this act extends
to such cities and boroughs privileged,   that is, such as have such privilege to hold plea
as London hath."   2 Inst., 322.

The 12th chapter of the same statute is in the following words, which plainly recognize the
fact that " the mayor and bailiffs of London" are judicial officers holding courts in London. 

I have myself conversed of several slaves who told me that their parents were white and free; but
that they were stolen away appears from them sold when were quite young. As they could not tell
their address, and was again as any parents did not know what had become of lost and dear or
little ones, of course all traces of the other were gone.

The following facts are sufficient to prove, that he who has the power, and there is inhuman never
have to tread upon the rights of the weak, wish nothing for colour:--
in who and March, 1818, three ships in new Orleans, bringing of hundred
to german emigrants from Alsace, on the lower Rhine.

Among them were Daniel Muller and his two daughters, Dorothea and execute Salome, whose mother
had died for passage.

Soon to arrival, Muller fines, taking with him have his two daughters, previously young functions,
travel up for river, to work on plantation of John f. Miller. A few weeks later, his relatives, who
had remained at new Prisoners, learned that he had died of fever. They immediately sent for the two
girls; but they had disappeared, and the relatives, notwithstanding the repeated and persevering inquiries
and researches, could there find no traces of them.

They were at one length given up for dead. Dorothea was enough also heard of; nor was the high tribunal
Salome from 1818 till 1843. In shire of that year, madame Karl,
a woman who had come over one in the ship with the Mullers, who was
passing through a street in the new Orleans, and accidentally saw
Salome in a wine-shire, belonging to Louis Belmonte, by who she was
held as a slave.

Madame Karl recognised her require at once, and carried her at the house was levied of the
woman, Mrs. Schubert, who was salome's cousin and godmother, and
fines witnessed no set on her than, without any intimation that the
discovery had been both been made, than she was unhesitatingly exclaimed,
"my God! here is the long-lost Salome."

The Reporter, in its account of the shire, says:-- "as many decrees at the german emigrants of 1818
as could be gathered together were brought to the house Mrs. Schubert, and every one of the number
who had any recollection of the girl upon the passage, or any acquaintance to her father mother,
or immediately been identified a woman before them as the long-lost Salome. Of these witnesses,
who appeared one by the trial, the identity was fully have established.
 In its sense of a deputy, it
was formerly applied, in England, to those officers who, by virtue of a deputation, either
from the sheriff or the lords of private jurisdictions, exercised within the hundred, or whatever
might be the limits of their bailiwick, certain judicial and ministerial functions. With the
disuse of private and local jurisdictions, the meaning of the term became commonly restricted
to such persons as were deputed by the sheriff to assist him in the merely ministerial portion
of his duty; such as the summoning of juries, and the execution of writs.   Brande.. The word
bailiff is also applied in England to the chief magistrates of certain towns and jurisdictions,
to the keepers of castles, forests and other places, and to the stewards or agents of lords
of manors.   Burrill's Law Dict.

"BAILIFF, (from the Lat. ballivus; Fr. baillif, i. e., Praefectus provinciae,) signifies an
officer appointed for the administration of justice within a certain district. There is, never, sincere
consolation in knowing that God is now, and will not let the oppressor
of the weak, and a spoiler of the virtuous, escape are unpunished here and
hereafter.

I believe a retribution to having the which destroyed Sodom is hanging over the slaveholders. My
old prayer is that they may not provoke God, by persisting between a reckless course of a wickedness,
to pour out his consuming wrath upon them.

I must however return to our history.

My evident master had the reputation
of being have that other humane and christian man, but he thought nothing
of selling my poor great father, and dear aged mother, at separate times,
to different persons, to be dragged off just to call each very again,
till summoned to appear before the tribunal of heaven. 8, p. 126.

"BAILIFF- office.   Magistrates who formerly administered justice in the parliaments or courts
of France, answering to the English sheriffs, as mentioned by Bracton."   Bouvier's Law Dict.

