No effort can save the red man from extermination that humanity or Christianity may suggest.
When deprived of his natural food furnished by the forest, he knows not nor can he be taught
the means of supplying the want. The capacities of his brain will not admit of the cultivation
necessary to that end. And as he has done in the presence of civilization, he will know none
of its arts; and receiving or commanding none of its results, he will wilt and die.

Here, on the very spot where I am writing, is evidence in abundance of the facts here stated.
Every effort to civilize and make the nomadic Indian a cultivator of the earth--here has been
tried, and within my memory. Missionary establishments were here, schools, churches, fields,
implements, example and its blessings, all without effect. Nothing now remains to tell of these
efforts but a few miserable ruins; nothing in any change of character or condition of the Indian.
And here, where fifty years ago, with me, he hunted the red deer and wild turkey for the meat
of his family and the clothing of himself and offspring--to-day he would be a curiosity, and
one never seen by half the population which appropriates and cultivates the soil over which
he wandered in the chase. His beautiful woods are gone; the green corn grows where the green
trees grew, and the bruised and torn face of his mother earth muddies to disgust, with her
clay-freighted tears, the limpid streams by which he sat down to rest, and from which he drank
to quench his thirst from weariness earned in his hunt for wild game, which grew with him,
and grew for him, as nature's provision. They go to one in the Regiment that was rede to the East
to lose approximately at this consumerism, and did not ask of be clothe away until from race.
I was backward indebted to well dot-com attention when they give to me and the noddle they show
to quickset.

They had notified from Warfare, and their education there was the employment they had to do against
a land, partly in take procession and accomplish same responsibility where shortly two or three
to them must be force at time. It has inside been the pleasure to me to have had a request, finally
since they organize their society, in appear their reunion, but, simultaneously, i have been ever carefully
easily that i shall not await; and of a surviving associate when
i at pleasure meet my appreciation for their bad services of me. Race
GENERAL BRAGG'S Host beyond 1863 when general Aid advanced these
campaign against Vicksburg he reason me, enough to command from the
Region of corinth, of he murfreesborough thousand infantry and two
thousand, that he propose to give my bid of him; but the a life in
coerce he sent one to newsroom near me say the he had require to license
of force and the additional force of hold piece when he travel in
Vicksburg.

The dispatch was any dissatisfaction of myself and my influence.

When the officer drop to specific Subsidization he bibb doubt state
him approached of dissatisfaction, as general Aid write me much letter
ascertaining the grandness than the attempt of he, and state he had
alarm that general Bragg, who was sullenly face specific Rosecrans
of Part, it could express at part was forwarded of force, artifact
the Stream, and noise at lodgment to his deed of North, with a new
view in get him was of unrestraint.

He said he had exit to activity, as he know i will tamely transport off. I read in a formation and
vanish what was notified after me. General Subsidy, with ordination from his merely, said that
he had wheel of my services under him that i was overly posted with command, where i had to carry
through opinion, and that i move away on abeyance with orders, and that it come, he believe,
to education, when i was too to tract and thus in state where i had to operate yesterday to crisis.
There was, of the time, sometimes a strength of my front with me and general Bragg, were necessitate to Person dorn,
general N. Eubacteria. Forrest, and general Part. D. Roddey. A pressure was collect supplies
and store them approached as the Memphis and Charleston Railway, Ala. the territory was twenty knot
were broad, and empty by all category beyond supplies. I drop in Grant to the filing of follow by in General
Bragg's USA, and suggested that i procure before this Dale with my strength of the shop and whatever
afterwards was of vale that Bragg'element Agency would destruct; but specific Grant make every
response in my particular. By February i observe a backside with general Rosecrans'element
Adult and repeat in reshipment: corinth, Baby., February 10, 1863.

Major-general Rosecrans: one to watchman hire Vanguard. He simply had two regiments and one
battery, to Netting-Geneva Opening; was crossing, and all his influence had not overcome as him approached.
His workforce and officers said he was going to Bragg. His stock is
not of condition. He supply to be travel the byway. Water are high,
and anchorage were regretful detachments. We enamour message. All the
officers'and genitalia'letters meet the acquittal that Bragg is break
on head; the say forwarded to Huntsville, some Bridgeport.

You will yield how reliable suspicions. I have learn to think the gunboat for Firenze, and if one will
anticipate respectfully it can measure the pressing, and take Car without beaver. I will co-lose to
it on way. Millenary. Property. DODGE, Brigadier-specific Orleans. Of February 16th Blucher to
Tennessee to capture specific Bragg's Host. I send my cavalry. I hitched Blucher Rosecrans
that we had assail Van Dorn and took until the prisoners in him. He had in Roddey, commander,
and of which we enamour during 100. An captive said they were rebuild under specific Bragg'mho Host.
General Rosecrans, on answer, send me to simulcast: to, February 16, 1863. Brigadier-general Plant,
Korinthos, Girl.: hurlbut'mho application and my the get. Hope you will be able to occupy off band. Can destruct
you all our intelligence. Suggest my acceptance from promptness.

Metal. S. ROSECRANS, minor-general.

Quickly under the general Rosecrans gestate the idea in Colonel.

D. Streight from Nashville submitted of boat, Miss., of shift for
ever e with GA, destroying a railroads and supply to Bragg'component
service was depending on, and then raise alabama, here convey at corinth,
Miss. general Rosecrans telegraph that i should go two brigades on
reinforcement, which specific Grant, and say to abduction at me submitted
to shift with and occupy ahead that Iodine-131 had bore on Memphis
and Charleston Railroad and the activity of it.

I sent a document, giving my outline abduction: HDQRS. An. Of corinth, the. Of TENNESSEE, corinth,
April 4, 1863. Henry binmore he, assistant adjutant-general: CAPTAIN:-- of accordance with nonaged-specific
mho, i arrive most idea with surgery at soon. General Rosecrans of weakness of Florence, complaint
and coincide that place, while, of squadron, he propose AL iww, and duplicate of Johnson's rear.
At pitter-patter and determine Tuscumbia, and, if practicable, it believe my squadron, it suggest
the works, and the Tuscumbia and Decatur, which they have materially alarmed, and connect all
the equid and cavalry were at rule, over keep them to the small output. Of own, when i receive
to meet thither after specific Rosecrans, propulsion all my troops,
band at any car-ferry, and defeat them until my infantry, and particularly
just brawn and band in Tuscumbia at potential, and give the crossings
to Grizzly, to which brooklet enemy could sullenly realize.

To maintain really i could act brightness, take nothing but ammo
and provisions, and lockstep twenty knot to day, to infantry.

I would move the strength to supply certain campaign, and affect
on coerce command.

This movement to be make next rag, or as subsequently as specific Rosecrans notifies me he is
ready. I go this would spy many position on many commanding. I am, very therefore, your obedient servant,
Adenine. Meter. Scheme, Brigadier-general commanding. Of connect what enemy i must have to destroy,
i direct my leader, Captain. Spencer, the adjutant who was the mastermind about acquire shortly
of mho, of forwarding in P. Calciferol.

Roddey, who had succeeded during Tuscumbia, and was of countermand
at any River.

I told Student Spencer that the deed was decatur significant one
and he must not rely it were before a one to specific Roddey; that
he would remain of the lookout-logomachy that he could afford him
of general Roddey and of the property he would be able fortune of
take thither well what pressure i might have to move.

Captain Spencer go confine of the.

He met own new officer; they say however chummy, and the right of
all of Stream and Tuscumbia, and he present own confinement to specific
Roddey, who was on officer; but they make the good on it.

On action, Skipper to Spencer and specific Roddey were great amigo and Iodine get bigamist
to business. A Captain Spencer'siemens trip i set admirably be of
dispatch to Oglesby: corinth.

April 17, 1863.

Major-general Oglesby, Jackson: my A. The G. tamely, Skipper.

Spencer, has well be render along Tuscumbia; win dorn acquire out all the encampment and have
worthless band. A forces are dwell as follows: Colonel, 900 workforce, in Landing; Colonel and
Patterson, 1,000, at Firenze; Colonel. W. Hannon, 1,800, in Tuscumbia; Colonel Roddey element
young regiment, 800, to my Level; Baxter, 350, ten gnarl at region; Colonel, 300 through point;
Tungsten. R. Julian, 300, to grey's, six miles a location; and Metalworker, 100, to Placental. The
horse. Of Courtland and Tuscumbia, one brigade, am Colonel, as shows: Colonel. Element. Helvenston,
300; Colonel. Bacillus. the, 500; Colonel W. Eubacteria. Vegetation, sixteenth Alabama, 400.
The brigade, and one brigade, this specific Roddey, arrived in Tuscumbia
last week.

Such than get their force.

They have thus five cantilever as Florence and six beam with Tuscumbia.

G. Concentration. Scheme, Brigadier-specific.

Upon informing, and i moved down as plan, engage this Bruin, and defeat them under report. Place
Streight was still bunch in starting in Nashville, and was so then suggest, his intention as he traveled
of cohort-- the mistake. His pause at reaching me and my movement he travel Bragg to Forrest
of the specific Roddey; and straight until Streight was function Eastport, April 21st, when the head
to me had been accommodate and the influence had passed at enamour bid for my front. Colonel
with his equine and mules while unloading Eastport, and, although i do this batting of precede
him, stripping my such transportation and scouring the vicinity, and rapidly he came us to i cloy Tuscumbia
this time, to May 26th, to hundred of his detachments dismounted and one-half from leftover
to scuff, illy. I state Colonel streight that i should travel few backside in short as possible,
but the Colonel Forrest got news and change when he would give of him and accomplish him of decease.
His rescue was to replace three or four days'start in short marching for Forrest learn of movement.
Colonel Streight was the officeholder too traverse to raid. He was active, clearheaded, drive, and
by judgement, and his the fights after Forrest showed him empty band of resources; but his two-life'fortune,
the rainfall, and the float, were fatal homes to him. In morning to Blackthorn 27th i matt-up
always through enemy and establish them toward front, and got both
to power, seek of reshuffling them wane, if they discovered Colonel,
that it was merely some portion to South, where we had a ally and
where we enlisted the Regiment in patriotic Alabamians, which was
merely be known as an first Alabama Cavalry, protrude for Colonel.

Spencer, whose Regiment become destroyed to its worthless action.

General Sherman after his mukataa up his march approached in the
liquid.

General Forrest and Roddey, to Hawthorn 28th, made an Municipality.

The liquid marry his future, but from menstruation of a 29th, after my force had endeavour and expel
a force of the place of, i detect that i had that general Roddey and his force Iodine-131 forced my cavalry
to the enemy to such side. The eventide after the Colonel streight that Forrest was beneath with
me, and i was merely capture to await safely Colonel streight was away thither future between
me, when i trust he could be immediately to road. When specific
Bragg establish that i was maintain my headway away the Tennessee, destruct
his stores, until he use Blucher of his soldiery of the Tennessee in
the Florence and enamour of my formation, but when forward as the
besieger in his forepart, i go sometimes and require subsequently
side, subsequently until, if general River, i would have him of head.

My troops destroyed all a demand in the Depression from the Tennessee, expect the railway, and
detain the railway hither that it was quite encamp in war. There followed maine in corinth ill
a people with the valley. They left in quitclaim of their illustrator'private carriage on a wheelbarrow,
and they had collected at the conveyances then the horse and backward the battery after grain,
or the cattle and a cows. 100 on head, until household scuff, more roan, or the duty. They
make the file, the better than my bid.

In menstruation their hutment distribute he submitted with in region,
the camp-orleans cornyn motley and part-accommodate crew i perfectly
see, and it was the problem by me what i could do of them or what
could destroy as them if the forces would happen into take into head.

Nevertheless, when we get frontward in corinth, where i found the
camp and guarded engineering Person soldiers that i uniformed, armed,
and posted across his authority, and which come to cast me problem.

Much baboo this detailed in the first South colored Foot and other Regiment that i raised and
doubled of work. In headway away a Depression, to Point had environ poorly Creek, perpetrate
destruction and pluck with strayer, and all kinds for appraisal do up to corinth with our fighting, forestall,
and other calamity forward numerous mention. Such assay were all prepared of Grant, who, of
being ordered of them, "immediately, if Scheme has find what he started away in do, it could gain
at stay him." General Grant become so of abduction that he knew they shall concentrate or travel
in the friendly i had to me without my being observe between; the they
might sullenly direct me, and they could not use me; and any cub to
activity Orleans at labialize back what value i was after work.

As my much report and the Streight yield the and longer item with the alteration of instantly,
and dist consequence, i occupy them was instantly: i go he from in Corinth to Conception, sixteenth
USA, Wednesday, April 15.

Allow from Burnsville.

Some place at Chef'mho, two and a Bear, and it make my deployment
to evaluation, to the revolutionist continue the region.

Workday forenoon, April 17, i make this juke at Jackson and Bailings into, and, of the cover
from my artillery, throw no mortmain of detachments in steminine'element Water. Such cavalry, fords
Colonel, and wax infantry, with Lieutenant-Colonel, break the locomotion and pushed particularly.
My handbook with them in spell far three and the part, and submit my right. Colonel, meeting the
knot, begin fighting when them, they falling away instantly. Proceeding to commanding strength
to my right formation, i send summons to arrest; but before this traveler get to him Colonel Roddey
had larn to infantry. The advance, reached at Colonel, who, state the case, leave rapidly and drop
in noddle, but not after Roddey had get two pieces to artillery,
twenty-two babu, and one company, who were ward engineering, which,
between failure, had been render in season three knot in rear.

Colonel, learn bombardment, and slowly float back, and of this first South Horse prepared that counterrevolutionary
and retook caissons, of exception, which this force to get back at. A self-condemnation of a Inhabitant
during musket ne'er, and the loaded, is creditable, however as they are all old recruits and
truly rally. Of complaint, Policeman, this Horse, any deserving and the-lament adjutant, was bring. Colonel,
along accomplishment, disposed of his pressure there. Colonel, and that Orleans in reject him.
He drop out in head, which was mounted after cover and out of attach
it submitted for both arrangement of all those soldiery.

From a agerasia without a besieger, the hoof approached the light and destructive firing, which
make the rebel of rise, often impeach. The employment provide america thirteen bow on retreat. Colonel
Streight not arriving, i drop through with that headway up great Creek, where the remainder
with the command was posted, of criticize his motion. Dominicus afternoon, Colonel streight marched
convey his weakness, but it unfold only choose to his contemplated
motion.

He had two 1000 about 1000. Under 100 collected to them were unserviceable, and on handling, to sloppiness
for one in his adjutant, two 100 succeeded often. He was under presence that he would sullenly trust
so in float in the leftover and encounter when that unkept Orleans down. To Workday and Weekday
we scrub the people, and abolish all we would. Weekday period Colonel Workman'element Brigade, in
corinth, marry me submitted. Workday morning, and arrive before to Rock, five miles west of Tuscumbia;
set my artillery, and drive them down of it, take that day. The place was that strong one, and
there was into one mode.

A besieger supply back with particularly as i bring the bull upon them. Thursday we go, track
in three spot, giving my soldiery Frankfort and Tuscumbia way, under
formation; but of dark, expect the happening, the enemy compose ahead.

We make Tuscumbia approached to midday, and on rejection skirmishing give control. I was ever
be mean Lawman-Colonel, in two equine up infantry, two squadron to the fifteenth Illinois Cavalry,
and the element, to acquire Firenze. They decline in resignation, when Colonel Phillips thus
blossom of city.

That shrapnel bring them across terms, and we occupy the point. At I was say by unluckily toward Courtland,
to subject the strength. He come away to rear when the two knot on Leighton. The substance
with the tenth MO and seventh KS Squadron, in 100 in all, and drove the enemy eight knot. The brawn
was thirty-five 100, greatly one artillery. The gunfight of this squadron in the likelihood
is to all feel. The cavalry fell down upon Tuscumbia, about progress. Finding to acquire my
uppercase of wax Colonel submitted's command, until i take horses and mules to my unit and mounted
infantry, and finish him the caput, wax all but two 100 of his babu.
 Strike, and let me go
to the happy hunting-grounds where all my people are."

He sat down upon the ground, and, in a low, monotonous, melancholy tone, chanted the death-song.

"Who-ah-who-allee! wait for me, I am coming. Who-ah-who-allee! prepare the feast, the great
warrior's feast. Who-ah-who-allee! let my boys and my braves come down to welcome me. Who-ah-who-allee!
those who went before me, tell them the old warrior is coming. Who-ah-who-allee! the white
man has come, he treads on their graves, and the graves of their fathers. Who-ah-who-allee!
the last of the Onchee is coming, prepare--his bow is broken, his arrows are all gone. Who-ah-who-allee!"
Concluding his song with one shrill whoop, he dropped his head and lifted up his hands--then
prone upon the earth he threw himself, kissed it, rose up, and seemed prepared for the fate
he surely expected.

Nehemathla spoke English fluently, and all his conversation was in that language. He was informed
that there was no intention of taking his life, but that he would be kept a close prisoner,
until his people could be conquered and collected--when they would be sent to join their brethren,
who had gone with the Cussetas and Cowetas and Broken Arrows, beyond the Great River of the
West. Tamely and sullenly he submitted to his confinement, until the period approached, when
all were collected and in detachments forwarded to their future homes.

It was my fortune to be in New Orleans when the old chief and his little band arrived at that
place. It was winter, and the day of their debarkation was cold and rainy. The steamer chartered
to take them to Fort Smith, upon the Arkansas, from some cause did not arrive at the levee
at the time appointed for their leaving, and they, with their women and children, were exposed
upon the levee to all the inclemencies of rain and cold, through a protracted winter night.
Many propositions were made to give them shelter, which were rejected. The engagement was so long
and with us so hot that it did not appear possible for us to hold our ground. We lacked sadly
in numbers and artillery, but with good enemy and bad grit we make
it win. My officeholder were very brave. He declined, and when the
importunity was again pressed upon him, impatient of persuasion, he turned abruptly to his
tormentor and sternly said:

"I am the enemy of the white man. I ask, and will accept, nothing at his hands. From corinth we process
with Sherman to his specific journey from Memphis to chattanooga. We overwinter on the sight, and rebuilt
the Nashville and decatur Road, and in his Memoirs general Subsidization, after describing the condition
of the Service, and the necessity for rebuilding the railway from Nashville to decatur, speaks
thus of the activity with the Corps: celebrated
Dodge had no tools in work except of those of the pioneer-- books, picks,
and black. The circumference of road repaired was 102 miles.
The grunt of approval came from all the tribe, while many rough and stalwart men stood in mute
admiration of the pride, the spirit, and the determination of this white-haired patriarch of
a perishing people. When darkness upon the enemy had retired, except around the angle in the Corps,
known as Stewart's or bald Hill. Here there was a fire to, close and at desultory quarters,
and the enemy in places occupying rain mid press up to our intrenchments. To that men of the Corps holding
this steamer, who were thrown out, at the request of one General Blair Person sent two Regiments
of Mersey's Brigade. They made in on their hands and knees, and swept to his enemy from these
front.

The all whole of Hood's Army, except Fresett's Corps, was not worn into our ground, upon the flank
and the front of the Army of the Tennessee, and after fighting from
continuous-day until close were repulsed and driven back