It was about dark now; so I dropped the canoe down the river under some willows that hung over
the bank, and waited for the moon to rise.  I made fast to a willow; then I took a bite to
eat, and by and by laid down in the canoe to smoke a pipe and lay out a plan.  I says to myself,
they'll follow the track of that sackful of rocks to the shore and then drag the river for
me. In a review of these operations, we can trace some of the reasons that could embroil states
among themselves, should be your misfortune to be divided.
The competitions of commerce would be another fruitful source of discord. The States less favorably
than in those circumstances want to escape the disadvantages of local situation and participate
in the benefits of more fortunate neighbors. Federal State or separately, would develop a system
of trade policy is his own. This could lead to distinctions, preferences,
and exclusions that would create discontent.

Sexual habits on the basis of equal rights we have been accustomed since the earliest settlements
in the country, would give a sharp edge to the causes of discontent than they would naturally
have independent of this circumstance. We must be prepared to enter INJURY those things that
were, in fact, legitimate acts of independent sovereignty consulting a clear interest. The entrepreneurial
spirit that characterizes the commercial part of America, has left no chance to prove itself
unimproved.

It is probable that this unbridled spirit would pay much respect to trade regulations by which
certain States might endeavor to secure exclusive benefits to its own citizens. The violations of
these rules, on the one hand, efforts to prevent and suppress, on the other hand, naturally lead
to outrages, and these to reprisals and wars.
The chances that some States have to make them tax other commercial regulations submitted by
states eager to tax. The relative situation of New York, Connecticut and New Jersey would
give an example of this type. New York, from the revenue requirement in the case of the customs
of their imports. Much of this work will be paid by the residents of the other two states in their
capacity as consumers, of what we import.

New York would neither want nor can waive these benefits. Its citizens would not allow a tax
paid by them must be transferred to the benefit of the citizens of her neighbors, nor will
it be possible had it not this impediment in the way, to distinguish the customers in our own markets.
Town of Connecticut and New Jersey long submit to be taxed by New York for its own sake?
  I laid there, and had a good rest and a smoke out
of my pipe, looking away into the sky; not a cloud in it.  The sky looks ever so deep when
you lay down on your back in the moonshine; I never knowed it before.  And how far a body can
hear on the water such nights!  I heard people talking at the ferry landing. I heard what they
said, too--every word of it.  One man said it was getting towards the long days and the short
nights now.  T'other one said THIS warn't one of the short ones, he reckoned--and then they
laughed, and he said it over again, and they laughed again; then they waked up another fellow
and told him, and laughed, but he didn't laugh; he ripped out something brisk, and said let
him alone.  The first fellow said he 'lowed to tell it to his old woman--she would think it
was pretty good; but he said that warn't nothing to some things he had said in his time. I
heard one man say it was nearly three o'clock, and he hoped daylight wouldn't wait more than
about a week longer.  After that the talk got further and further away, and I couldn't make
out the words any more; but I could hear the mumble, and now and then a laugh, too, but it
seemed a long ways off.

I was away below the ferry now.  I rose up, and there was Jackson's Island, about two mile
and a half down stream, heavy timbered and standing up out of the middle of the river, big
and dark and solid, like a steamboat without any lights.  There warn't any signs of the bar
at the head--it was all under water now.

It didn't take me long to get there.  I shot past the head at a ripping rate, the current was
so swift, and then I got into the dead water and landed on the side towards the Illinois shore.
I run the canoe into a deep dent in the bank that I knowed about; I had to part the willow
branches to get in; and when I made fast nobody could a seen the canoe from the outside.

I went up and set down on a log at the head of the island, and looked out on the big river
and the black driftwood and away over to the town, three mile away, where there was three or
four lights twinkling.  A monstrous big lumber-raft was about a mile up stream, coming along
down, with a lantern in the middle of it.  I watched it come creeping down, and when it was
most abreast of where I stood I heard a man say, "Stern oars, there! heave her head to stabboard!"
I heard that just as plain as if the man was by my side.

There was a little gray in the sky now; so I stepped into the woods, and laid down for a nap
before breakfast.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE sun was up so high when I waked that I judged it was after eight o'clock.  I laid there
in the grass and the cool shade thinking about things, and feeling rested and ruther comfortable
and satisfied.  I could see the sun out at one or two holes, but mostly it was big trees all
about, and gloomy in there amongst them.  There was freckled places on the ground where the
light sifted down through the leaves, and the freckled places swapped about a little, showing
there was a little breeze up there.  A couple of squirrels set on a limb and jabbered at me
very friendly.

I was powerful lazy and comfortable--didn't want to get up and cook breakfast.  Well, I was
dozing off again when I thinks I hears a deep sound of "boom!" away up the river.  I rouses
up, and rests on my elbow and listens; pretty soon I hears it again.  I hopped up, and went
and looked out at a hole in the leaves, and I see a bunch of smoke laying on the water a long
ways up--about abreast the ferry.  And there was the ferryboat full of people floating along
down.  I knowed what was the matter now.  "Boom!" I see the white smoke squirt out of the ferryboat's
side.  You see, they was firing cannon over the water, trying to make my carcass come to the top.

I was pretty hungry, but it warn't going to do for me to start a fire, because they might see
the smoke.  So I set there and watched the cannon-smoke and listened to the boom. All in all,
we have all the assistance they had, even more than they, for heroic poetry in these affairs.
As for that inquiry of Boileau's, "What pleasure can it be to hear the howlings of repining Lucifer?"
And let any man read but his speech, in Milton's Paradise, almost identical in Mr. Dryden's
state of chastity, and I'm mistaken if he's not of the same mindframe; or if he is, and it gives
him no pleasure, I dare confirm it is for want of a true taste of
what's really laudable.  I changed to the Illinois
edge of the island to see what luck I could have, and I warn't disappointed.  A big double
loaf come along, and I most got it with a long stick, but my foot slipped and she floated out
further.  Of course I was where the current set in the closest to the shore--I knowed enough
for that.  But by and by along comes another one, and this time I won.  I took out the plug
and shook out the little dab of quicksilver, and set my teeth in.  It was "baker's bread"--what
the quality eat; none of your low-down corn-pone.

I got a good place amongst the leaves, and set there on a log, munching the bread and watching
the ferry-boat, and very well satisfied.  And then something struck me.  I says, now I reckon
the widow or the parson or somebody prayed that this bread would find me, and here it has gone
and done it.  So there ain't no doubt but there is something in that thing --that is, there's
something in it when a body like the widow or the parson prays, but it don't work for me, and
I reckon it don't work for only just the right kind.

I lit a pipe and had a good long smoke, and went on watching.  The ferryboat was floating with
the current, and I allowed I'd have a chance to see who was aboard when she come along, because
she would come in close, where the bread did.  When she'd got pretty well along down towards
me, I put out my pipe and went to where I fished out the bread, and laid down behind a log
on the bank in a little open place.  Where the log forked I could peep through.

By and by she come along, and she drifted in so close that they could a run out a plank and
walked ashore.  Most everybody was on the boat.  Pap, and Judge Thatcher, and Bessie Thatcher,
and Jo Harper, and Tom Sawyer, and his old Aunt Polly, and Sid and Mary, and plenty more. 
Everybody was talking about the murder, but the captain broke in and says:

"Look sharp, now; the current sets in the closest here, and maybe he's washed ashore and got
tangled amongst the brush at the water's edge.  I hope so, anyway."

"I didn't hope so.  They all crowded up and leaned over the rails, nearly in my face, and kept
still, watching with all their might.  I could see them first-rate, but they couldn't see me.
Then the captain sung out:

"Stand away!" and the cannon let off such a blast right before me that it made me deef with
the noise and pretty near blind with the smoke, and I judged I was gone.  If they'd a had some
bullets in, I reckon they'd a got the corpse they was after.  Well, I see I warn't hurt, thanks
to goodness. The boat floated on and went out of sight around the shoulder of the island. 
I could hear the booming now and then, further and further off, and by and by, after an hour,
I didn't hear it no more.  The island was three mile long.  I judged they had got to the foot,
and was giving it up.  But they didn't yet a while.  They turned around the foot of the island
and started up the channel on the Missouri side, under steam, and booming once in a while as
they went.  I crossed over to that side and watched them. When they got abreast the head of
the island they quit shooting and dropped over to the Missouri shore and went home to the town.

I knowed I was all right now.  Nobody else would come a-hunting after me. I got my traps out
of the canoe and made me a nice camp in the thick woods.  I made a kind of a tent out of my
blankets to put my things under so the rain couldn't get at them.  I catched a catfish and
haggled him open with my saw, and towards sundown I started my camp fire and had supper.  Then
I set out a line to catch some fish for breakfast.

When it was dark I set by my camp fire smoking, and feeling pretty well satisfied; but by and
by it got sort of lonesome, and so I went and set on the bank and listened to the current swashing
along, and counted the stars and drift logs and rafts that come down, and then went to bed;
there ain't no better way to put in time when you are lonesome; you can't stay so, you soon
get over it.

And so for three days and nights.  No difference--just the same thing. But the next day I went
exploring around down through the island.  I was boss of it; it all belonged to me, so to say,
and I wanted to know all about it; but mainly I wanted to put in the time.  I found plenty
strawberries, ripe and prime; and green summer grapes, and green razberries; and the green
blackberries was just beginning to show.  They would all come handy by and by, I judged.

Well, I went fooling along in the deep woods till I judged I warn't far from the foot of the
island.  I had my gun along, but I hadn't shot nothing; it was for protection; thought I would
kill some game nigh home. About this time I mighty near stepped on a good-sized snake, and
it went sliding off through the grass and flowers, and I after it, trying to get a shot at
it. I clipped along, and all of a sudden I bounded right on to the ashes of a camp fire that
was still smoking.

My heart jumped up amongst my lungs.  I never waited for to look further, but uncocked my gun
and went sneaking back on my tiptoes as fast as ever I could.  Every now and then I stopped
a second amongst the thick leaves and listened, but my breath come so hard I couldn't hear
nothing else.  I slunk along another piece further, then listened again; and so on, and so
on.  If I see a stump, I took it for a man; if I trod on a stick and broke it, it made me feel
like a person had cut one of my breaths in two and I only got half, and the short half, too.

When I got to camp I warn't feeling very brash, there warn't much sand in my craw; but I says,
this ain't no time to be fooling around.  So I got all my traps into my canoe again so as to
have them out of sight, and I put out the fire and scattered the ashes around to look like
an old last year's camp, and then clumb a tree.

I reckon I was up in the tree two hours; but I didn't see nothing, I didn't hear nothing--I
only THOUGHT I heard and seen as much as a thousand things.  Well, I couldn't stay up there
forever; so at last I got down, but I kept in the thick woods and on the lookout all the time.
All I could get to eat was berries and what was left over from breakfast.

By the time it was night I was pretty hungry.  So when it was good and dark I slid out from
shore before moonrise and paddled over to the Illinois bank--about a quarter of a mile.  I
went out in the woods and cooked a supper, and I had about made up my mind I would stay there
all night when I hear a PLUNKETY-PLUNK, PLUNKETY-PLUNK, and says to myself, horses coming;
and next I hear people's voices.  I got everything into the canoe as quick as I could, and
then went creeping through the woods to see what I could find out.  I hadn't got far when I
hear a man say:

"We better camp here if we can find a good place; the horses is about beat out.  Let's look
around."

I didn't wait, but shoved out and paddled away easy.  I tied up in the old place, and reckoned
I would sleep in the canoe.

I didn't sleep much.  I couldn't, somehow, for thinking.  And every time I waked up I thought
somebody had me by the neck.  So the sleep didn't do me no good.  By and by I says to myself,
I can't live this way; I'm a-going to find out who it is that's here on the island with me;
I'll find it out or bust.  Well, I felt better right off.

So I took my paddle and slid out from shore just a step or two, and then let the canoe drop
along down amongst the shadows.  The moon was shining, and outside of the shadows it made it
most as light as day.  I poked along well on to an hour, everything still as rocks and sound
asleep. Well, by this time I was most down to the foot of the island.  A little ripply, cool
breeze begun to blow, and that was as good as saying the night was about done.  I give her
a turn with the paddle and brung her nose to shore; then I got my gun and slipped out and into
the edge of the woods. The most weight is laid on the exclusion of tea brought in from Prussia
in all of the contraband articles. No country consumes as much tea as Poland or Russia. Tea
imported from China and smuggled into Prussia can be sold for a tenth of the price of "caravan-tea,"
which comes through Russian merchants directly overland. This overland trade, which is a major
element of the Russian economy, suffers greatly from the presence of smuggled tea. Because this
poses such a prominent threat to their economy, the Russian government offers a premium of
fifty cents per pound of tea seized, paid down without any discount.
For this reason, the premium is highly attractive to officers on the frontier. It used to be that
the confiscated tea would be sold at public auction to a buyer willing to carry it over the
frontier properly; Russian officers were in charge of this proces and delivered the contraband
to Prussian frontier towns.

However, frequently those Russian officers themselves would carry
the tea back into Poland the following night.

Therefore, a more radical approach had to be taken: all confiscated tea would be utterly destroyed
by fire.

Anywhere from 20,000 to 40,000 pounds of confiscated tea are destroyed annually in the chief
city of the province. The truth, however, is that usually nothing more than brown paper or
damaged tea are actually consumed in flame.

Russian officials are too pragmatic to burn valuable tea when a good product has been confiscated.
In a situation like this, the officials will take the tea themselves and replace it with an
equal weight of paper or rags to resemble the original packages.

Often, however,the confiscated tea is either damaged or useless,
and thus of little value.

Because of the tea's great value, Polish Jews and Russian officials
will work together to gain the reward.

The curious process goes as follows:  A Polish Jew will buy up a
great quantity of worthless tea and coordinate a time and place with
a Russian border officer.

The Polish Jew will cross the border at that time, with the express
intention of being caught by the Russian official, who waits with
an ignorant third party.

At the correct moment, the Officer will notice the Jew, who will
attempt to make an escape.

The officer will chase after the so-called smuggler, fail to catch
him, and fire his musket.

The supposed smuggler will then drop the package and disappear.

The officer will take the dropped package and return to the office
with his witness, who will attest to how earnestly he attempted to
catch the culprit.

The officer will then collect his reward, and give the smuggler a
previously agreed upon stipend.

* * * * *

MORE OF LEIGH HUNT.[1]

Even though possibly more than half of these volumes have been given
to the world in previous publications, they carry this recommendation
with them: They present portrait-painting that has not been seen in
such felicity.

A pleasant tale with cheerful wisdom lies scattered about in books that now appears in an accessible,
continuous form specially crafted for the reading generation of recent
years.

Mr. Hunt almost disarms criticism with his confession that this performance is what led to his death-sentence,
and that he had wanted to abandon the project at almost every step, had circumstances allowed.

Any reader will find passionate examples of the author's spirit as
he follows his fascinating tale.

From the serene height of old age, "the gray-haired boy whose heart can never grow old," our
narrator shares his regrets and refusals of egotism or assumptions, silly indignation of the
past, and allows himself to happily accept the joys of life along
with its pains.

All this occurs to him "with the disposition to believe them the
best that could have happened, whether for the correction of what
was wrong in him, or the improvement of what was right."

The final chapter of this saga contains a short account of Mr. Hunt's
activity during the last twenty-five years; his residence at Highgate,
Hampstead, Chelsea, and Kensington, and of his literary labors while
living at these places.

  Ole missus--dat's Miss Watson--she pecks on me all de time,
en treats me pooty rough, but she awluz said she wouldn' sell me down to Orleans.  But I noticed
dey wuz a nigger trader roun' de place considable lately, en I begin to git oneasy.  Well,
one night I creeps to de do' pooty late, en de do' warn't quite shet, en I hear old missus
tell de widder she gwyne to sell me down to Orleans, but she didn' want to, but she could git
eight hund'd dollars for me, en it 'uz sich a big stack o' money she couldn' resis'.  De widder
she try to git her to say she wouldn' do it, but I never waited to hear de res'.  I lit out
mighty quick, I tell you.

"I tuck out en shin down de hill, en 'spec to steal a skift 'long de sho' som'ers 'bove de
town, but dey wuz people a-stirring yit, so I hid in de ole tumble-down cooper-shop on de bank
to wait for everybody to go 'way. Well, I wuz dah all night.  Dey wuz somebody roun' all de
time.  'Long 'bout six in de mawnin' skifts begin to go by, en 'bout eight er nine every skift
dat went 'long wuz talkin' 'bout how yo' pap come over to de town en say you's killed.  Dese
las' skifts wuz full o' ladies en genlmen a-goin' over for to see de place.  Sometimes dey'd
pull up at de sho' en take a res' b'fo' dey started acrost, so by de talk I got to know all
'bout de killin'.  I 'uz powerful sorry you's killed, Huck, but I ain't no mo' now.

"I laid dah under de shavin's all day.  I 'uz hungry, but I warn't afeard; bekase I knowed
ole missus en de widder wuz goin' to start to de camp-meet'n' right arter breakfas' en be gone
all day, en dey knows I goes off wid de cattle 'bout daylight, so dey wouldn' 'spec to see
me roun' de place, en so dey wouldn' miss me tell arter dark in de evenin'. De yuther servants
wouldn' miss me, kase dey'd shin out en take holiday soon as de ole folks 'uz out'n de way.

"Well, when it come dark I tuck out up de river road, en went 'bout two mile er more to whah
dey warn't no houses.  I'd made up my mine 'bout what I's agwyne to do.  You see, ef I kep'
on tryin' to git away afoot, de dogs 'ud track me; ef I stole a skift to cross over, dey'd
miss dat skift, you see, en dey'd know 'bout whah I'd lan' on de yuther side, en whah to pick
up my track.  So I says, a raff is what I's arter; it doan' MAKE no track.

"I see a light a-comin' roun' de p'int bymeby, so I wade' in en shove' a log ahead o' me en
swum more'n half way acrost de river, en got in 'mongst de drift-wood, en kep' my head down
low, en kinder swum agin de current tell de raff come along.  Den I swum to de stern uv it
en tuck a-holt.  It clouded up en 'uz pooty dark for a little while.  So I clumb up en laid
down on de planks.  De men 'uz all 'way yonder in de middle, whah de lantern wuz.  De river
wuz a-risin', en dey wuz a good current; so I reck'n'd 'at by fo' in de mawnin' I'd be twenty-five
mile down de river, en den I'd slip in jis b'fo' daylight en swim asho', en take to de woods
on de Illinois side.

"But I didn' have no luck.  When we 'uz mos' down to de head er de islan' a man begin to come
aft wid de lantern, I see it warn't no use fer to wait, so I slid overboard en struck out fer
de islan'.  Well, I had a notion I could lan' mos' anywhers, but I couldn't--bank too bluff.
I 'uz mos' to de foot er de islan' b'fo' I found' a good place.  I went into de woods en jedged
I wouldn' fool wid raffs no mo', long as dey move de lantern roun' so.  I had my pipe en a
plug er dog-leg, en some matches in my cap, en dey warn't wet, so I 'uz all right."

"And so you ain't had no meat nor bread to eat all this time?  Why didn't you get mud-turkles?"

"How you gwyne to git 'm?  You can't slip up on um en grab um; en how's a body gwyne to hit
um wid a rock?  How could a body do it in de night?  En I warn't gwyne to show mysef on de
bank in de daytime."

"Well, that's so.  You've had to keep in the woods all the time, of course. Did you hear 'em
shooting the cannon?"

"Oh, yes.  I knowed dey was arter you.  I see um go by heah--watched um thoo de bushes."

Some young birds come along, flying a yard or two at a time and lighting. Jim said it was a
sign it was going to rain.  He said it was a sign when young chickens flew that way, and so
he reckoned it was the same way when young birds done it.  I was going to catch some of them,
but Jim wouldn't let me.  He said it was death.  He said his father laid mighty sick once,
and some of them catched a bird, and his old granny said his father would die, and he did.

And Jim said you mustn't count the things you are going to cook for dinner, because that would
bring bad luck.  The same if you shook the table-cloth after sundown.  And he said if a man
owned a beehive and that man died, the bees must be told about it before sun-up next morning,
or else the bees would all weaken down and quit work and die.  Jim said bees wouldn't sting
idiots; but I didn't believe that, because I had tried them lots of times myself, and they
wouldn't sting me.

I had heard about some of these things before, but not all of them.  Jim knowed all kinds of
signs.  He said he knowed most everything.  I said it looked to me like all the signs was about
bad luck, and so I asked him if there warn't any good-luck signs.  He says:

"Mighty few--an' DEY ain't no use to a body.  What you want to know when good luck's a-comin'
for?  Want to keep it off?"  And he said:  "Ef you's got hairy arms en a hairy breas', it's
a sign dat you's agwyne to be rich. Well, dey's some use in a sign like dat, 'kase it's so
fur ahead. You see, maybe you's got to be po' a long time fust, en so you might git discourage'
en kill yo'sef 'f you didn' know by de sign dat you gwyne to be rich bymeby."

"Have you got hairy arms and a hairy breast, Jim?"

"What's de use to ax dat question?  Don't you see I has?"

"Well, are you rich?"

"No, but I ben rich wunst, and gwyne to be rich agin.  Wunst I had foteen dollars, but I tuck
to specalat'n', en got busted out."

"What did you speculate in, Jim?"

"Well, fust I tackled stock."

"What kind of stock?"

"Why, live stock--cattle, you know.  I put ten dollars in a cow.  But I ain' gwyne to resk
no mo' money in stock.  De cow up 'n' died on my han's."

"So you lost the ten dollars."

"No, I didn't lose it all.  I on'y los' 'bout nine of it.  I sole de hide en taller for a dollar
en ten cents."

"You had five dollars and ten cents left.  Did you speculate any more?"

"Yes.  You know that one-laigged nigger dat b'longs to old Misto Bradish? Well, he sot up a
bank, en say anybody dat put in a dollar would git fo' dollars mo' at de en' er de year.  Well,
all de niggers went in, but dey didn't have much.  I wuz de on'y one dat had much.  So I stuck
out for mo' dan fo' dollars, en I said 'f I didn' git it I'd start a bank mysef. Well, o' course
dat nigger want' to keep me out er de business, bekase he says dey warn't business 'nough for
two banks, so he say I could put in my five dollars en he pay me thirty-five at de en' er de year.

"So I done it.  Den I reck'n'd I'd inves' de thirty-five dollars right off en keep things a-movin'.
Dey wuz a nigger name' Bob, dat had ketched a wood-flat, en his marster didn' know it; en I
bought it off'n him en told him to take de thirty-five dollars when de en' er de year come;
but somebody stole de wood-flat dat night, en nex day de one-laigged nigger say de bank's busted.
So dey didn' none uv us git no money."

"What did you do with the ten cents, Jim?"

"Well, I 'uz gwyne to spen' it, but I had a dream, en de dream tole me to give it to a nigger
name' Balum--Balum's Ass dey call him for short; he's one er dem chuckleheads, you know.  But
he's lucky, dey say, en I see I warn't lucky.  De dream say let Balum inves' de ten cents en
he'd make a raise for me.  Well, Balum he tuck de money, en when he wuz in church he hear de
preacher say dat whoever give to de po' len' to de Lord, en boun' to git his money back a hund'd
times.  So Balum he tuck en give de ten cents to de po', en laid low to see what wuz gwyne
to come of it."

"Well, what did come of it, Jim?"

"Nuffn never come of it.  I couldn' manage to k'leck dat money no way; en Balum he couldn'.
I ain' gwyne to len' no mo' money 'dout I see de security.  Boun' to git yo' money back a hund'd
times, de preacher says! Ef I could git de ten CENTS back, I'd call it squah, en be glad er
de chanst."

"Well, it's all right anyway, Jim, long as you're going to be rich again some time or other."

"Yes; en I's rich now, come to look at it.  I owns mysef, en I's wuth eight hund'd dollars.
I wisht I had de money, I wouldn' want no mo'."

CHAPTER IX.

I WANTED to go and look at a place right about the middle of the island that I'd found when
I was exploring; so we started and soon got to it, because the island was only three miles
long and a quarter of a mile wide.

This place was a tolerable long, steep hill or ridge about forty foot high. We had a rough
time getting to the top, the sides was so steep and the bushes so thick.  We tramped and clumb
around all over it, and by and by found a good big cavern in the rock, most up to the top on
the side towards Illinois.  The cavern was as big as two or three rooms bunched together, and
Jim could stand up straight in it.  It was cool in there. Jim was for putting our traps in
there right away, but I said we didn't want to be climbing up and down there all the time.

Jim said if we had the canoe hid in a good place, and had all the traps in the cavern, we could
rush there if anybody was to come to the island, and they would never find us without dogs.
And, besides, he said them little birds had said it was going to rain, and did I want the things
to get wet?

So we went back and got the canoe, and paddled up abreast the cavern, and lugged all the traps
up there.  Then we hunted up a place close by to hide the canoe in, amongst the thick willows.
We took some fish off of the lines and set them again, and begun to get ready for dinner.

The door of the cavern was big enough to roll a hogshead in, and on one side of the door the
floor stuck out a little bit, and was flat and a good place to build a fire on.  So we built
it there and cooked dinner.

We spread the blankets inside for a carpet, and eat our dinner in there. We put all the other
things handy at the back of the cavern.  Pretty soon it darkened up, and begun to thunder and
lighten; so the birds was right about it.  Directly it begun to rain, and it rained like all
fury, too, and I never see the wind blow so. A few people were thrown out of Henry VI.'s court in 1451 because
of the upheaval against them, mirroring the present proceedings.  It
would get so dark that it looked all blue-black outside, and lovely; and the rain would thrash
along by so thick that the trees off a little ways looked dim and spider-webby; and here would
come a blast of wind that would bend the trees down and turn up the pale underside of the leaves;
and then a perfect ripper of a gust would follow along and set the branches to tossing their
arms as if they was just wild; and next, when it was just about the bluest and blackest--FST!
it was as bright as glory, and you'd have a little glimpse of tree-tops a-plunging about away
off yonder in the storm, hundreds of yards further than you could see before; dark as sin again
in a second, and now you'd hear the thunder let go with an awful crash, and then go rumbling,
grumbling, tumbling, down the sky towards the under side of the world, like rolling empty barrels
down stairs--where it's long stairs and they bounce a good deal, you know.

"Jim, this is nice," I says.  "I wouldn't want to be nowhere else but here. Pass me along another
hunk of fish and some hot corn-bread."

"Well, you wouldn't a ben here 'f it hadn't a ben for Jim.  You'd a ben down dah in de woods
widout any dinner, en gittn' mos' drownded, too; dat you would, honey.  Chickens knows when
it's gwyne to rain, en so do de birds, chile."

The river went on raising and raising for ten or twelve days, till at last it was over the
banks.  The water was three or four foot deep on the island in the low places and on the Illinois
bottom.  On that side it was a good many miles wide, but on the Missouri side it was the same
old distance across--a half a mile--because the Missouri shore was just a wall of high bluffs.

Daytimes we paddled all over the island in the canoe, It was mighty cool and shady in the deep
woods, even if the sun was blazing outside.  We went winding in and out amongst the trees,
and sometimes the vines hung so thick we had to back away and go some other way.  Well, on
every old broken-down tree you could see rabbits and snakes and such things; and when the island
had been overflowed a day or two they got so tame, on account of being hungry, that you could
paddle right up and put your hand on them if you wanted to; but not the snakes and turtles--they
would slide off in the water.  The ridge our cavern was in was full of them. We could a had
pets enough if we'd wanted them.

One night we catched a little section of a lumber raft--nice pine planks. It was twelve foot
wide and about fifteen or sixteen foot long, and the top stood above water six or seven inches--a
solid, level floor.  We could see saw-logs go by in the daylight sometimes, but we let them
go; we didn't show ourselves in daylight. 

The ratio of capital to the column in the amount of surface was very slight. The proportion
of segments of the arches, of course, depends on the size of the arch - large segments of the
large arches, small segments of small arches. The columns are grouped only around the docks and
on both sides of the openings, and finally, the natural development
of the column in the Romanesque work went to the attenuation - the
latest and greatest work, became thinner in columns, until finally
merged into the Gothic pillars of multiple columns.

The carving on the arch-moldings is largely geometric, consisting of numerous facets cut into
the stone tablets, etc., dogtooth trim called is a very favorite decoration.  All these carved
moldings were collected in color, usually red and green. The Romanesque acanthus has lost much
of its force, is flat and heavy on top, around the edge, and scratched
with V-cuts, and the vine leaf is preferred by designers.

Often the mass of the wall are cut in geometric patterns of the diaper,
also played with color.

Borders are not large, and circular forms, except in the arches,
are rarely used.

Romanesque art is a barbarian at best, and has the virtue of custom
of the barbarian - a direct attack on the problem at hand and simplicity
in the treatment of what is exciting to see.

XXV. and XXVI. WINDOWS IN THE CHURCH OF ST Teresia, Trani, Italy.
These two windows have very little to suggest the Byzantine influence
in its design.

  There was two old dirty
calico dresses, and a sun-bonnet, and some women's underclothes hanging against the wall, and
some men's clothing, too.  We put the lot into the canoe--it might come good.  There was a
boy's old speckled straw hat on the floor; I took that, too.  And there was a bottle that had
had milk in it, and it had a rag stopper for a baby to suck. Not the color, which is mostly gray-black
and brown, while the bird was seen by his partner "dark blue light."  Nor is the description
of the Dartford warbler, "the light for a moment at the very point of the twigs" of gorse (cf.

Yarrell ut sup.) Coincide with the account of the bird seen by C.
Brown, who "never saw a single session or light on a branch of myrtle,
but always flying from the base of one plant to another."

In conclusion, I venture to ask if the memory of your party can not have been dangerous respecting
the color of a bird not seen for twenty-five years, if ever seen in Chobham Dartford warbler
and the common property adjacent?
SALMON World Refugee Day.
* * * * *
TIN.
(Viii Vol., P. 290. 344..)
The first mention I remember of the place of the can where it came from, is in Herodotus (lib.
iii. C. 115.).
He does not say

"But as to the uttermost parts of Europe to the west, I can not speak no doubt. Because I do not think
a certain river Eridanus is called by the barbarians, which results in a northern sea, and not
is a report that typically amber to come, nor have I known (any) islands, Cassiterides ([Greek:
EOUs kassiteridas]), of which tin comes at us.
Because on the one hand, the very name of Eridanus shows that it is Greek and not barbarian, but
formed by a poet, and on the other, I am not able, despite paying
much attention to this matter, to hear from anyone who has been an
eye witness that there is a sea on this side of Europe.

But certainly, both the tin and amber usually come from the extreme
of Europe.

"
[Greek: Kassiteros] as Damm, is so called because it's ready to crash than other metals, ie [Greek:
kausiteros] of [Greek: Kaio], to burn; This derivation agrees with that given by MR. CROSSLEY
tin "tin Celtic to melt quickly, and get some support from Hesiod (DG 861.), Where he talks about
the earth burning and melting as tin or iron, which is the hardest metals.
But I have no doubt that this derivation.

First, {594}, because it is very clear in my mind that Herodotus had no idea there was a Greek
derivation. Is assigned the Greek origin of the word Eridanus as a reason not to believe the
claim that it, and if I had known that Cassiteras had a similar origin, no doubt, would have
allocated the same reason as himself.

Rather than be referred to the fact that I could not get any authentic account of the maritime
areas of that side of Europe, as evidence that the Cassiterides not exist. Indeed, his statement
about the Greek origin, together with the reason for the addition, it seems almost, if not
completely, equivalent to a denial that the other had a Greek origin.
Secondly, has the highest degree unlikely that these islands should
have received its name from the Greek, since it is contrary to all
experience that a country should be appointed by persons ignorant
of their existence.

The place names are either given to them by those who discover them, or the names of those who
are called by their inhabitants are adopted by others.

At the time Caesar invaded the island, there was a town he calls Cassi (Cæs. BG, lib. V. 21.),
Of which Prince Camden says, "from the Cassii their prince, or Cassivellaunus Cassibelinus
first took his name, "adding that" it seems very likely that Cassivellaunus denotes both as
Prince of Cassii. "
(British Camd.., P. 278. Edit.

1695. ) In accordance with which the word is composed of Cassi and vellaunus or belinus, and this
derivation is strengthened by the word Cunobelinus, evidently similar way.
Now there is a Celtic word tir, or b (which is derived from terra),
and TIR Welsh word (pronounced Teer I've heard), all land it denotes.

If, then, this word is added to Cassi, we Cassita, ie the land of the Cassi, Cassiland.
And as we have England, Scotland and Ireland, possibly the ancient people may have called his
country Cassita, and as chalybs, steel, was named by both the Greeks and Romans of people
who did it, so it could be the country can be found. My derivation
is conjectural, of course, and as such I submit with great deference
to honest examination of its readers.  I done it, and he eat it and said it would help cure
him. All the latest procedures of his life occurred to him. And in the kind of delusion caused
by long-lasting meditation, alert as he was, he entered the land of dreams. He seemed to see
two genii looking for, the one to pull him to paradise and the other
towards the deep hole.