"He is a good lad," said Johnson; "and I've been and driven him away from his home.  That cursed
drink has swept him away, as it's swept almost everything good out of our house.  It'll do
for us all afore we've done with it; and the sooner it's the death of me the better."

"Nay, nay, Thomas, you mustn't say so," cried the other; "it's not right.  God has spared you
for summat better; turn over a new leaf, man, at once.  He'll give you strength for it if you'll
ask him.  Come now, draw your chair to the table, and have a cup of tea and a bit of muffin;
it'll do you good."

"Ned," said Thomas, sadly, "I can't take meat nor drink in your house. I've abused you behind
your back scores of times, and I can't for shame take it."

"Nay, nay, man; never heed what you've said against me.  You see you've done me no harm.  I'm
none the worse for all that folks can say against me; so draw up your chair, you're gradely
welcome to your tea."

"Ay, do," chimed in his wife; "doesn't Scripture say, `If thine enemy hunger, feed him; if
he thirst, give him drink:' and I'm sure you must be both hungry and thirsty if you haven't
tasted since you came from the pit."

Poor Johnson could not speak.  When he was sober he was a feeling man, and a sensible one too.
Alas! his sober times were few, but he was sober now.  The tears overflowed his eyes, and he
brushed them hastily away as he drew his chair near to the bright little circle of happy healthy
faces.  He ate and drank for a while in silence, and then said with a faltering voice,--

"Ned, you're a true Christian.  I'll never say a word against you behind your back any more."

Brierley held out his hand to him, and the other grasped it warmly.

"I'll tell you what," said Ned, in a cheery voice, "I'd give a good deal, Thomas, to see you
a total abstainer; it'd be the making of you."

Johnson shook his head sorrowfully.

"I mustn't; Alice wouldn't let me.  I can't; the drink's more to me nor meat, and clothes,
and everything.  I durstn't, for my old pals at the `George' would chaff me to death with their
jeers and their jokes.  I couldn't face them for shame."

"Oh, Thomas," cried Ned, "what a slave the drink's made of you:-- mustn't! can't! durstn't!--what!
ain't you a man? haven't you got a will of your own?"

"No, Ned, that's just it; I haven't a will of my own: the old lad's got it off me long since."

"Ay, but, Thomas, you must get it back again," exclaimed Brierley's wife; "you must go to Jesus,
and he'll help you."

Johnson fidgeted uneasily in his chair; at last he said,--

"I can't do without my beer; I haven't strength to work without it."

"You've taken plenty of it, I reckon," remarked Ned, "and you don't seem to thrive much on't."

"I've taken too much," said the other, "but I can't do without a little."

"You can't do with a little, I fear.  It's first only a pint, and then it's only a quart, and
then it's only a gallon, till at last it's only a fuddled head and an empty pocket.  Come,
join us, Thomas; take the first step boldly like a man, and then just pray for grace, and you'll
not fear what other folks can do to you."

"But I shall never get through my work without a drop of beer to wash dust out of my throat
and spirit me up," persisted Johnson.  "I feel like another sort of man when I've had my pint."

"Yes, just for a bit," replied Ned.  "Now it seems to me just the same as what we might do
with our fire.  I bid our Esther look to the fire, so she goes and sticks to the poker, and
each now and then she pokes away at the fire, and the fire blazes up and blazes up, but very
soon there's nothing left to blaze with.  The fire'll be out directly, so I says to our Mary,
you look after the fire, so our Mary goes to the heap and fetches a shovel of coal, and claps
it on the top of the hot cinders, and she won't let our Esther poke it no more, so it burns
steady and bright, and throws out a good heat, and lasts a long time. Now, when you take your
drop of beer, you're just poking the fire, you're not putting any coal on; you can work like
a lion for a bit, but you're only using up the old stock of strength faster and faster, you're
not putting on any new.  I've helped you to put a little gradely coal on to-night, and I hope
it won't be the last time by many."

"Father," broke in Esther, laughing, and highly entertained at the part she bore in her father's
illustration, "when you tell your tale again, you must make our Mary stick to the poker, and
me clap the coal on."

"Ay, ay, child," said her father, "you shall each take it in turn."

"Well, you may be right," sighed Johnson; "but Jack Barnes says as he's knowed scores of teetottallers
that's wasted away to skin and bone for want of the drink; he says beer strengthens the bone,
and makes the muscles tight and firm."

"Jack Barnes may say what he likes, but I'll just ask you, Thomas, to think and judge for yourself.
You see me and mine; you see seven total abstainers here to-night.  Not one of these childer
knows the taste of the drink; they work hard, you know, some in the pit, some in the mill:
do they look nothing but skin and bone?  Where'll you find healthier childer?  I'm not boasting,
for it's the good Lord that's given 'em health, yes, and strength too, without the drink."

"Ay, and just look at Jack Barnes's own lads, and the company they keep," said John, the eldest
son; "you may see them all at the four lane ends, [Note 1], any Sunday morn, with their pigeons,
looking more like scarecrows than Christians; and afore night they'll be so weary that they'll
scarce know how to bide anywhere.  They'll be lounging about, looking as limp as a strap out
of gear, till they've got the ale in them, and then they're all for swearing and shouting up
and down the lanes."

"I can't deny," said Johnson, "that you teetottallers have the best of it in many ways.  It's
a bad bringing-up for childer to see such goings- on as is in Barnes's house."

"And, Thomas," said Brierley's wife, "you know how it is with Joe Taylor's lads and wenches.
There's a big family on 'em.  They're not short of brass in that house, or shouldn't be.  There's
drink enough and to spare goes down their throats, and yet there's not one of the whole lot
but's as lean as an empty bobbin, and as white as a heap of cotton. They're nearly starved
to death afore reckoning-day comes; and with all their good wage they cannot make things reach
and tie."

"Well, I must wish you good night now," said Johnson, rising to go.  "I suppose I can do nothing
about our Sammul but have patience."

"Yes, pray for patience, Thomas; and pray to be shown the right way: and give up the drink,
man--ay, give it up at once, for Betty's sake, for Alice's sake, and for your own soul's sake."

"I'll try, I'll try; good night."

"Good night."

Johnson walked homewards sorrowful but calm.  Should he take the pledge? should he boldly break
his chains, and brave the scorn of his ungodly companions?  He felt that he ought.  He murmured
a half prayer that he might have strength to do it.  He reached his own home; he entered--what
did, he see?

Round the fire, slatternly and dirty, with hair uncombed, dress disordered, shoes down at heel,
lolling, lounging, stooping in various attitudes, were some half-dozen women, Alice being nearest
the fire on one side.  Most of them had pipes in their mouths.  On the table were cups and
saucers, a loaf and some butter, and also a jug, which certainly did not hold milk; its contents,
however, were very popular, as it was seldom allowed to rest on the table, while the strong
odour of rum which filled the room showed pretty plainly that it had been filled at the public-house
and not at the farm.  Every eye was flashing, and every tongue in full exercise, when Johnson
entered.

"Well, Thomas," said his wife, "I thought you were down at the `George.' Our Betty's not so
well, so she's gone up into the chamber to lay her down a bit; and I've just been axing a neighbour
or two to come in and have a bit of a talk over our Sammul.  Come, sit you down, and take a
cup of tea, and here's summat to put in it as'll cheer you up."

"I've just had my tea at Ned Brierley's," replied her husband; "I don't want no more."

"Ah, but you must just take one cup.  Reach me the jug, Molly.  You look as down as if you'd
seen a boggart; [see note 2], you must drink a drop and keep your spirits up."

He made no reply, but threw himself back on the couch, and drew his cap over his eyes.  Seeing
that he was not likely to go out again, the women dropped off one by one, and left him alone
with his wife, who sat looking into the fire, comforting herself partly with her pipe and partly
with frequent applications to the jug.  After a while Thomas rose from the couch, and took
his seat by the fire opposite to her.  There was a long pause; at last he broke it by saying,--

"Alice."

"Well, Thomas."

"Alice, you know I have been up at Ned's.  Ned's a quiet, civil man, and a gradely Christian
too.  I wish our house had been like his; we shouldn't have lost our Sammul then."

"Well, my word! what's come over you, Thomas?  Why, sure you're not a- going to be talked over
by yon Brierley folk!" exclaimed his wife. "Why, they're so proud, they can't look down upon
their own shoes: and as for Brierley's wenches, if a fellow offers to speak to 'em, they'll
snap his head off.  And Martha herself's so fine that the likes of me's afraid to walk on the
same side of the road for fear of treading on her shadow."

"Well, Alice, I've oft abused 'em all myself; but I were wrong all the time.  And you're wrong,
Alice, too.  They've never done us no harm, and we've nothing gradely to say against 'em; and
you know it too.  They've toiled hard for their brass, and they haven't made it away as we
have done; and if they're well off, it's no more nor they deserve."

"Not made away their brass!  No, indeed!" said his wife, contemptuously, "no danger of that;
they'll fist it close enough.  They like it too well to part with it.  They'll never spend
a ha'penny to give a poor chap a drop of beer, though he's dying of thirst."

"No, 'cos they've seen what a curse the drink has been to scores and hundreds on us.  Ah, Alice,
if you had but seen the happy faces gathered round Ned's hearth-stone; if you had but heard
Ned's hearty welcome-- though he can't but know that I've ever been the first to give him and
his a bad word--you couldn't say as you're saying now."

"Come, Thomas," said his wife, "don't be a fool.  If Ned Brierley likes his teetottal ways,
and brings up his lads and wenches same fashion, let him please himself; but he mustn't make
teetottallers of you nor me."

"And why shouldn't he make a teetottaller of me?" cried Thomas, his anger rising at his wife's
opposition.  "What has the drink done for us, I'd like to know?  What's it done with my wage,
with our Betty's wage, with our poor Sammul's wage?  Why, it's just swallowed all up, and paid
us back in dirt and rags.  Where's there such a beggarly house as this in all the village?
Why haven't we clothes to our backs and shoes to our feet?  It's because the drink has took all."

"It's not the drink," screamed Alice, her eyes flashing with rage. "You've nothing to blame
the drink for; the drink's right enough.  It's yourself; it's your own fault.  You haven't
any conduct in your drink like other folk.  You must sit sotting at the `George' till you can't
tell your hand from your foot; and then you must come home and blackguard me and the childer,
and turn the house out of the windows. You've driven our Sammul out of the country; and you'll
be the death of our Betty, and of me too, afore you've done."

"Death of you!" shouted her husband, in a voice as loud as her own. "And what odds then?  No
conduct in my drink!  And what have you had in yourn?  What's there to make a man tarry by
the hearth-stone in such a house as this, where there's nothing to look at but waste and want?
I wish every drop of the drink were in the flames with this."  So saying, he seized the jug,
threw the little that was left of the spirits in it into the fire, and, without stopping to
listen to the torrent of abuse which poured from the lips of his wife, hurried out of the house.
And whither did he go?  Where strong habit led him, almost without his being conscious of it--he
was soon within the doors of the "George."  By this time his anger had cooled down, and he
sat back from the rest of the company on an empty bench.  The landlord's eye soon spied him.

"What are you for to-night, Thomas?" he asked.

"I don't know," said Johnson, moodily; "I'm better with nothing, I think."

"No, no," said the other; "you're none of that sort.  You look very down; a pint of ale'll
be just the very thing to set you right."

Johnson took the ale.

"Didn't I see you coming out of Ned Brierley's?" asked one of the drinkers.

"Well, and what then?" asked Johnson, fiercely.

"Oh, nothing; only I thought, maybe, that you were for coming out in the teetottal line.  Ay,
wouldn't that be a rare game?"

A roar of laughter followed this speech.  But Johnson's blood was up.

"And why shouldn't I join the teetottallers if I've a mind?" he cried. "I don't see what good
the drink's done to me nor mine.  And as for Ned Brierley, he's a gradely Christian.  I've
given him nothing afore but foul words; but I'll give him no more."

A fresh burst of merriment followed these words.

"Eh, see," cried one, "here's the parson come among us."

"He'll be getting his blue coat with brass buttons out of the pop-shop just now," cried another;
"and he'll hold his head so high that he won't look at us wicked sinners."

A third came up to him with a mock serious air, and eyeing him with his head on one side, said,--

"They call you Thomas, I reckon.  Ah, well, now you're going to be one of Ned's childer, we
must take you to the parson and get him to christen you Jonadab."

Poor Johnson! he started up, for one moment he meditated a fierce rush at his persecutors,
the next, he turned round, darted from the public- house, and hurried away he knew not whither.

And what will he do?  Poor man--wretched, degraded drunkard as he had been--he was by natural
character a man of remarkable energy and decision; what he had fairly and fully determined
upon, his resolution grasped like a vice.  Brought up in constant contact with drunkenness
from his earliest years, and having imbibed a taste for strong drink from his childhood, that
taste had grown with his growth, and he had never cared to summon resolution or seek strength
to break through his miserable and debasing habit.  Married to a woman who rather rejoiced
to see her husband moderately intoxicated, because it made him good- natured, he had found
nothing in his home, except its growing misery, to induce him to tread a better path.  True,
he could not but be aware of the wretchedness which his sin and that of his wife had brought
upon him and his; yet, hitherto, he had never seen himself to be the chief cause of all this
unhappiness.  He blamed his work, he blamed his thirst, he blamed his wife, he blamed his children,
he blamed his dreary comfortless home--every one, everything but himself.  But now light had
begun to dawn upon him, though as yet it had struggled in only through a few chinks.  God had
made a partial entrance for it through his remorse at the loss of his son; that entrance had
been widened by his visit to Ned Brierley, yet he was still in much darkness; his light showed
him evil and sin in great mis-shapen terrible masses, but was not so far sufficiently bright
to let him see anything in clear sharp outline.  A great resolve was growing, but it needed
more hammering into form, it wanted more prayer to bring it up to the measure of a Christian duty.

And here we must leave him for the present, and pass to other and very different scenes and
characters essential to the development of our story.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  "Four lane ends," a place where four roads meet.

Note 2.  "Hoggart", a ghost.

CHAPTER THREE.

THE RECTORY.

The Reverend Bernard Oliphant, rector of Waterland, was a man of good family and moderate fortune.
At the time when this tale opens he had held the living eighteen years.  He had three sons
and one daughter. The eldest son, Hubert, was just three-and-twenty, and, having finished his
course at Oxford with credit, was spending a year or two at home previously to joining an uncle
in South Australia, Abraham Oliphant, his father's brother, who was living in great prosperity
as a merchant at Adelaide.  Hubert had not felt himself called on to enter the ministry, though
his parents would have greatly rejoiced had he seen his way clear to engage in that sacred
calling.  But the young man abhorred the thought of undertaking such an office unless he could
feel decidedly that the highest and holiest motives were guiding him to it, and neither father
nor mother dared urge their son to take on himself, from any desire to please them, so awful
a responsibility.  Yet none the less for this did Hubert love his Saviour, nor did he wish
to decline his service, or shrink from bearing that cross which is laid on all who make a bold
and manly profession of faith in Christ Jesus.  But he felt that there were some who might
serve their heavenly Master better as laymen than as ministers of the gospel, and he believed
himself to be such a one.  His two younger brothers, not feeling the same difficulties, were
both preparing for the ministry.  Hubert had a passionate desire to travel; his parents saw
this, and wisely judged that it would be better to guide his passion than to combat it; so,
when his uncle proposed to Hubert to join him in Australia, they gave their full consent. 
They knew that a strong expression of dissuasion on their part would have led him to abandon
the scheme at once; but they would not let any such expression escape them, because they felt
that they were bound to consult his tastes and wishes, and not merely their own.  They knew
that his faith was on the Rock of Ages; they could trust his life and fortunes to their God.
For Bernard Oliphant and his wife had but one great object set before them, and that was to
work for God.  The rector was warm and impulsive, the fire would flash out upon the surface,
yet was it under the control of grace; it blazed, it warmed, but never scorched, unless when
it crossed the path of high-handed and determined sin.  She was all calmness and quiet decision;
yet in her character there ran a fire beneath the surface, sending up a glow into every loving
word and deed.  She had never been beautiful, yet always beautified by the radiance of true
holiness.  In her, seriousness had no gloom, because it was the seriousness of a holy love.
She made even worldly people happy to be with her, because they felt the reality and singleness
of her religion--it was woven up with every hour's work, with every duty, with every joy. 
She lived for heaven not by neglecting earth, but by making earth the road to heaven.  Her
religion was pre- eminently practical, while it was deeply spiritual; in fact, it was the religion
of sanctified common sense.  The true grace of her character gained the admiration which she
never sought.  As some simple unadorned column rising in the midst of richly-carved sculptures
arrests attention by its mere dignity of height and grace of perfect proportion, so in the
unassuming wife of Bernard Oliphant there was a loftiness and symmetry of character which made
people feel that in her was the true beauty of holiness.

And the children trod in the steps of their parents.  Mary Oliphant was the youngest; she was
now just eighteen--slight in make, and graceful in every movement.  Her perfect absence of
self-consciousness gave a peculiar charm to all that she said and did; she never aimed at effect,
and therefore always produced it.  You could not look into her face without feeling that to
her indifference and half-heartedness were impossible things; and the abiding peace which a
true faith in Christ alone can give, was on those lovely features in their stillness.  Such
was the family of the Reverend Bernard Oliphant.

Waterland was a rural parish in one of the midland counties.  The rectory stood near one end
of the village, which was like a great many other country villages.  There were farm-houses,
with their stack-yards and clusters of out-buildings, with their yew-trees and apple-orchards.
Cottages, with low bulging white-washed walls and thatched roofs, were interspersed among others
of a more spruce and modern build, with slated roofs, and neat little gardens.  Then there
were two or three shops which sold all things likely to be wanted in everyday village life,
eatables and wearables nestling together in strange companionship; and, besides these, were
houses which would not have been known to be shops, but for a faded array of peppermints and
gingerbread, which shone, or rather twinkled, before the eyes of village children through panes
of greenish glass.  Of course there was a forge and a wheel-wright's shop; and, equally of
course, a public-house--there had been two, there was now but one, which could readily be known
by a huge swinging sign-board, on which was the decaying likeness of a "Dun Cow," supposed
to be feeding in a green meadow; but the verdure had long since melted away, and all except
the animal herself was a chaos of muddy tints.  The "Dun Cow," (a sad misnomer for a place
where milk was the last beverage the visitors would ever think of calling for), was to many
the centre both of attraction and detraction, for here quarrels were hatched and characters
picked to pieces.  The landlord had long since been dead, of the usual publican's malady--drink
fever.  The landlady carried on the business which had carried her husband off, and seemed
to thrive upon it, for there was never lack of custom at the "Dun Cow."  Just a stone's-throw
from this public-house, on the crest of the hill along which wound the village street, was
the church, a simple structure, with a substantial square tower and wide porch.  It had been
restored with considerable care and taste by the present rector, the internal appearance being
sufficiently in accordance with the proprieties of ecclesiastical architecture to satisfy all
but the over-fastidious, and yet not so ornamental as to lead the mind to dwell rather on the
earthly and sensuous than on the heavenly and spiritual.  Behind the church was the rectory,
a quaint old building, with pointed gables, deep bay- windows, and black beams of oak exposed
to view.  It had been added to, here and there, as modern wants and improvements had made expansion
necessary.  The garden was lovely, for every one at the rectory loved flowers: they loved them
for their own intrinsic beauty; they loved them as God's books, full of lessons of his skill
and tender care; they loved them as resting-places for the eye when wearied with sights of
disorder and sin; they loved them as ministering comfort to the sick, the aged, and the sorrowful
to whom they carried them.

Such was the village of Waterland.  The parish extended two miles north and south of the church,
a few farms and labourers' cottages at wide intervals containing nearly all the rest of the
population that was not resident in the village.

It has been said that there were once two public-houses in Waterland, but that now there was
but one.  This was not owing to any want of success in the case of the one which had become
extinct; on the contrary, the "Oldfield Arms" had been the more flourishing establishment of
the two, and was situated in the centre of the village. Its sign, however, had long since disappeared;
and it was now in the hands of the rector, its principal apartment having been transformed
into a reading-room, and place for holding meetings.  And how was this brought about?  Simply
thus.  When Bernard Oliphant first came to Waterland, he found the "Oldfield Arms" doing a
most excellent business; so far as that can be an excellent business which builds the prosperity
of one upon the ruin of hundreds.  People grumbled at the lowness of wages; wives were unable
to procure money from their husbands for decent dress; children were half-starved and two-thirds
naked; disease and dirt found a home almost everywhere; boys and girls grew up in ignorance,
for their parents could not afford to send them to school; the men had no tidy clothes in which
to appear at church.  Yet, somehow or other, the "Oldfield Arms" was never short of customers;
and customers, too, who paid, and paid well, sooner or later, for what they consumed.  So the
rector went among the people, and told them plainly of the sin of drunkenness, and pointed
out the misery it brought, as their own eyes could see.  They confessed the truth--such as
he could manage to get hold of--and drank on as before.  He was getting heart-sick and miserable.
Preach as he might--and he did preach the truth with all faithfulness and love--the notices
of ale, porter, and spirits, set up in flaming colours in the windows and on the walls of the
"Oldfield Arms," preached far more persuasively in the cause of intemperance.

One day he came upon a knot of men standing just at the entrance of the yard that led to the
tap-room.  They were none of them exactly drunk; and certainly none were exactly sober.  There
were some among them whom he never saw at church, and never found at home.  He was grieved
to see these men in high discussion and dispute, when they ought to have been busily engaged
in some lawful calling.  He stopped, and taking one of them aside whose home was specially
miserable, he said,--

"James, I'm grieved to see you here, when I know how sadly your poor wife and children are
in need of food and clothing."

The man looked half angry, half ashamed, but hung down his head, and made no reply.  The rest
were moving off.

"Nay, my friends," said the rector, kindly, "don't go.  I just want a word with you all.  I
want to say a few words of love and warning to you, as your clergyman.  God has sent me here
to teach and guide you; and oh, do listen to me now."

They all stood still, and looked at him respectfully.  He went on:--

"Don't you see that drinking habits are bringing misery into the homes of the people in our
parish--ay, into your own homes?  You must see it. You must see how drunkenness stores up misery
for you here and hereafter.  What will become of you when you die, if you go on as you are
doing now?  What will become of your families?  What will--"

At this moment there was a loud shout of "Hoy! hoy!" from the lips of a carter who was coming
with a brewer's dray out of the inn-yard.  The man had just been depositing several full casks,
and was now returning with the empty ones.  He did not see the rector at first; but when the
group made way for him, and his eyes fell on Mr Oliphant, he touched his hat as he was passing,
and said,--

"I beg pardon, sir; I did not know as you was there."  Then suddenly pulling up his horse,
he added-- "Oh, if you please, sir, master bid me say he's very sorry he hasn't any of the
ale you've been drinking ready just now, but he hopes you'll let me leave this barrel of stout,
it's in prime order, he says."

"Very well," replied Mr Oliphant; "you may leave it."

Then he turned again to the men: they were moving off.  He would have taken up his earnest
appeal where he left it; but somehow or other he felt a difficulty in speaking, and the deep
attention was evidently gone from his hearers.  He hesitated.  They were already dispersing:
should he call them back?  He felt as if he could not.  He turned sadly towards home, deeply
vexed and chafed in his spirit.  He blamed the ill-timed interruption of the carter; and yet
he felt that there was something else lurking in the background with which he felt dissatisfied--
something which wanted dragging out into the light.

"And yet it's so foolish!" he said to himself, as he walked slowly up the street.  "My drinking
in moderation has nothing in common with their drinking immoderately.  Why should my use of
intoxicating liquors fetter me in dissuading these poor creatures from their abuse?  They ought
to see the difference."  Then a voice, deeper in the heart, whispered-- "They ought; but they
do not, and their souls are perishing.  They are your people: you must deal with them as they
are, not as they ought to be."

That night the rector's sleep was very troubled.

It was about a week later that he was again near the "Oldfield Arms," when a spruce-looking
man--his wine-merchant's agent--came out of the inn door, and walked up the street.  Two men
were standing with their backs to the rector just outside the yard.  He was about to pass on;
when he heard one say,--

"What a sight of wine some of them parsons drink!  Yon fine gent couldn't afford all them gold
chains and pins if it warn't for the parsons."

"Ay," said the other, "it's the parsons as knows good wine from bad.  I heerd yon chap say
only this morning: `Our very best customers is the clergy.'"

"Well," rejoined the other, "I shouldn't mind if they'd only leave us poor fellows alone, and
let us get drunk when we've a mind.  But it do seem a little hard that they may get drunk on
their wine, but we mustn't get drunk on our beer."

"Oh, but you know, Bill," said the other, "this here's the difference. When they get drunk,
it's genteel drunk, and there's no sin in that; but when we poor fellows get drunk, it's wulgar
drunk, and that's awful wicked."

Bernard Oliphant was deeply pained; he shrank within himself.

"It's a cruel libel and a coarse slander," he muttered, and hastened on his way.  "Am I answerable,"
he asked himself, "for the abuse which others may make of what I take moderately and innocently?
Absurd!  And yet it's a pity, a grievous pity, that it should be possible for such poor ignorant
creatures to speak thus of any of our holy calling, and so to justify themselves in sin."

Yes, he felt it to be so, and it preyed upon his mind more and more.  He mentioned what he
had heard to his wife.

"Dear Bernard," she replied, "I have thought a great deal lately on this subject, especially
since you told me about your speaking to those men when you were interrupted by the drayman.
I have prayed that you and I might be directed aright; and we shall be.  But do not let us
be hasty.  It does seem as though we were being called on to give up, for the sake of others,
what does us personally no harm.  But perhaps we may be wrong in this view.  A great many excellent
Christians, and ministers too, are moderate drinkers, and never exceed; and we must not be
carried away by a mistaken enthusiasm to brand their use of fermented drinks as sinful because
such frightful evils are daily resulting from immoderate drinking.  We must think and pray,
and our path will be made plain; and we must be prepared to walk in it, cost what it may."

"Yes," said her husband; "I am getting more and more convinced that there is something exceptional
in this matter--that we cannot deal with this sin of drunkenness as we deal with other sins.
But we will wait a little longer for guidance; yet not too long, for souls are perishing, and
ruin is thickening all round us."

They had not to wait long; their path was soon made clear.

It was on a bitter and cheerless November evening that Mr Oliphant was returning to the rectory
from a distant part of his parish.  He was warmly clad; but the keen wind, which drove a prickly
deluge of fine hail into his face, seemed to make its way through every covering into his very
bones.  He was hurrying on, thankful that home was so near, when he suddenly stumbled upon
something in the path which he had not noticed, being half blinded by the frozen sleet.  With
difficulty he saved himself from falling over this obstacle, which looked in the feeble moonlight
like a bundle of ragged clothes.  Then he stooped down to examine it more closely, and was
horrified at hearing a low moan, which showed that it was a living creature that lay on the
path.  It was plainly, in fact, some poor, half-frozen fellow-man, who lay coiled together
there, perishing of cold in that bitter night.  The rector tried to raise the poor wretch from
the ground, but the body hung like a dead weight upon him.

"Come," he said, "my poor fellow; come, try and rouse yourself and get up.  You'll die if you
lie here."

The miserable bundle of humanity partly uncoiled itself, and made an effort to rise, but sunk
back again.  Mr Oliphant shouted for help. The shout seemed partly to revive the prostrate
creature, and he half raised himself.

"Come," said the rector again,-- "come, lean on my arm, and try and get up.  You'll die of
cold if you stay here."

"Die!" said a thick, unearthly voice from out of that half-frozen mass of flesh and blood.
"In Adam all die."

"Who and what are you?" cried the rector, in extreme astonishment and distress.

"What am I?  Ah, what am I?" was the bewildered, scarce audible reply.

By this time help had arrived.  Two men came up, and assisted Mr Oliphant to raise the poor
man, and support him to the "Oldfield Arms," where he was immediately put to bed; one of the
men being sent off by the rector to fetch the nearest medical man, while he himself gave orders
that everything should be done to restore the unhappy sufferer to warmth and consciousness.

"Please, Mrs Barnes," said he to the landlady, "be so good as to send up to the rectory, and
let me know, when the doctor comes, if he says that there is any danger.  If his report is
favourable, I will leave a night's rest to do its work, and will look in again early to-morrow.
And pray let the poor man have everything that he needs, and send up to the rectory if you
are short of anything."

"Thank you, sir," said Mrs Barnes.  "I will see that he is properly looked to."

The rector then went home, and in another hour received a message from the inn that the doctor
had been, and that there was no danger of any immediately fatal result; that he would call
again on his patient the following morning, and should be glad to meet the rector at the inn.

Accordingly, the following day at the appointed hour Bernard and the doctor went up together
into the sick man's room.  As they opened the door they were astonished to hear the patient
declaiming in a loud voice,--

"If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us."

Bernard's heart grew sick.  Could it be?  Could this miserable creature be one of his own profession?
Were these words the ramblings of one who had been used to officiate as a Church minister?
And, if so, what could have brought him to such a state of utter destitution?  The doctor seemed
to read his thoughts, and shook his head sadly.  Then, putting his mouth to his ear, he said,--

"It's the drink; the smell of spirits is still strong on him."

"Poor wretched creature!" said Mr Oliphant.  "Can it be that the love of drink has brought
a man of position and education to such a state as this?  What can be done for him?"

"Not much at present," was the reply, "beyond keeping him quiet, and nursing him well till
the fever has run its course.  And one thing is clear--we must keep all intoxicants from him.
They are downright poison to a man of his constitution; and should he get hold of any spirits
before his health is thoroughly established again, I would not answer for his life."

The rector called Mrs Barnes, and told her what the doctor had said, adding,--

"You must find a trustworthy nurse for him--one who will strictly attend to the doctor's orders."

The landlady promised she would do so; and the rector left the sick- chamber with a sorrowful
look and troubled heart.

In ten days' time the patient was well enough to sit up in bed and converse with Mr Oliphant.

"My poor friend," said the rector, "I grieve to see you in your present state, especially as
I cannot but perceive that you have seen better days, and moved among people of education.
However, there is great cause to thank God that he has so far spared your life."

A deep flush overspread the sick man's face as he replied,--

"Yes, indeed, I owe you, my dear sir, a debt of gratitude I can never repay.  You say the truth--I
have seen better days.  I was sought after in good society once, little as you might think it."

"I can believe it," said the rector, quietly.  "But do not distress yourself by referring to
the past, if it gives you pain."

"As to that," replied the other, "it matters to me little now what I once was; but it may interest
you to know, and may serve as a warning. I was a popular preacher once.  I was an ordained
minister of the Church of England.  Crowds flocked to my church.  I threw all my energies into
my preaching.  I was a free man then; at least I believed myself so. While I proclaimed the
love of God to sinners, I also preached vehemently against sin.  I never felt myself more at
home than when I was painting the miserable bondage of those whom Satan held in his chains.
I could speak with withering scorn of such as made a profession while they were living in any
known wickedness.  I was specially severe upon the drunkard's sin.  But preaching such as mine,
and in a large church, was very exhausting.  I found that I wanted support; so I began with
an egg beaten up with brandy, and took it just before going into the pulpit.  This made me
doubly fervent; some of my hearers thought me almost inspired.  But the exhaustion was terrible
at the end; so I added another glass of egg and spirits after the sermon.  Then I found that,
somehow or other, I could not preach in the evening after taking much solid food; so I substituted
liquids for solids, and lived on Sundays almost entirely on malt liquors and spirits.  When
these failed to keep me up to the mark, I had to increase the quantity.  At last I saw that
my churchwarden began to look a little strangely and suspiciously at me; ugly sayings reached
my ears; the congregation began to thin.  At last I received a letter from a Christian man
of my flock, telling me that himself and many others were pained with the fear that I was beginning
to exceed the bounds of strict temperance: he urged total abstinence at once; he was a total
abstainer himself.  I was startled--prostrated-- humbled to the very dust.  I reflected on
the quantity of intoxicants I was now taking daily, and I shuddered.  I thanked my friendly
adviser with tears, and promised to return to strict moderation.  Total abstinence I would
not hear of; it was quite out of the question.  I could no more do without alcoholic stimulants
then than I can do now."

He paused, and fixed a peculiar look on Mr Oliphant; who, however, did not, or would not, understand
it.  So he went on:--

"I tried moderation; but it would not do.  I prayed for strength to be moderate; but I know
now that I never really desired what I prayed for.  It was too late to be moderate; my lust
had got the bit between its teeth, and I might as well have pulled at the wind.  I went from
bad to worse.  Desertion, disgrace, ruin, all followed.  Everything has gone--church, home,
money, books, clothes--the drink has had them all, and would have them again if they were mine
at this moment.  For some years past I have been a roaming beggar, such as you found me when
you picked me up in the road."

He said all this with very little emotion; and then lay back, wearied with his exertions in
speaking.

"And have you any--" The rector did not know how to finish the sentence which he had begun
after a long pause.

"Have I any family? you would ask," said the other.  "I had once.  I had a wife and little
child; my only child--a little girl.  Well, I suppose she's better off.  She pined and pined
when there was next to nothing to eat in the house; and they tell me--for I was not at home
when she died--that she said at the last, `I'm going to Jesus; they are not hungry where he
is.'  Poor thing!"

"And your wife?" exclaimed Bernard, his blood running cold at the tone of indifference in which
this account was given.

"Oh, my wife?  Ah, we did not see much of one another after our child's death!  I was often
from home; and once, when I returned, I found that she was gone: they had buried her in my
absence.  She died--so they said--of a broken heart.  Poor thing! it is not unlikely."

Mr Oliphant hid his head in his hands, and groaned aloud.  He had never before conceived it
possible--what he now found to be too true--that long habits of drunkenness can so utterly
unhumanise a man as to reduce him to a mere callous self, looking upon all things outside self
as dreamy and devoid of interest, with but one passion left--the passion for the poison which
has ruined him.

At last the rector raised his head, and said slowly and solemnly,--

"And if God spares you, will you not strive to lead a new life?  Will you not pray for grace
to conquer your besetting sin?"

The wretched man did not answer for a while.  Then he said,--

"I have only one thing to live for, and that is the drink.  I cannot live without it.  Oh,
I implore you to let me have some spirits!  You do not, you cannot, know how I crave them,
or in pity you would not withhold them from me."

Mr Oliphant rose.

"Compose yourself, my poor friend," he said.  "I dare not grant your request; it might be your
death.  Farewell for the present.  May God, with whom all things are possible, help you through
your present trouble, and enable you in the end to conquer."

The wretched man called imploringly after him; but he closed the door, and summoning Mrs Barnes,
begged her to look well after him, and to see that the nurse did all in her power to keep him
calm, and to soothe him to rest.

Two days after this he called again.

"How is your patient to-day, Mrs Barnes?" he said to the landlady, whom he met on the landing.

"I cannot quite tell you, sir, for I have not been in to see him this morning.  He was so much
better yesterday that the doctor said Mrs Harper might go home.  I went to look at him after
he had taken his tea, and I found old Jane Hicks with him.  She had called to speak with Mrs
Harper, and the poor gentleman got her to go and borrow him a newspaper which he wanted to
see.  I think I heard her come back twice since Mrs Harper left; but perhaps he wanted something
else.  He said I had better not wake him very early, as he thought he should sleep well; so
I haven't disturbed him yet."

A strange misgiving crept over the rector.

"Let us go in at once," he said.

They knocked at the bed-room door--there was no answer; they opened it softly and went in.
The sick man lay on his back, apparently asleep, but when they came closer they saw that he
was dead.  A stain on the sheet attracted Mr Oliphant's notice; he hastily turned it down,
uncovering the hands; in the right was a bottle--it had held spirits; there was nothing in it now.

So died the miserable victim of drink; so died the once flourishing professor; so died the
once acceptable preacher.

Mr Oliphant knelt by the bed-side and poured out his heart to God in prayer, entreating to
be directed aright, and to be kept from ever in any degree disgracing his profession as this
unhappy man had done.  He was reminded that he was not alone by the sobs of the landlady, who
had fallen on her knees near him.

"Mrs Barnes," he said, on rising, "I have resolved, God helping me, to be a total abstainer
from this day forward.  I have nothing to do with the consciences of others, but for myself
I feel that I shall be a happier and a wiser man if I wholly abstain from those stimulants
which have power to make such a shipwreck as this."

She did not answer except by tears and a deep sigh; and he made his way sadly and thoughtfully
home.

From that day forward the drink was wholly banished from the rectory; there was no difference
of opinion between Bernard and his wife--they would bring up their children without the ensnaring
stimulant.  Mr Oliphant showed his colours at once; and he preached as well as practised total
abstinence, not in the place of the gospel, but as a handmaid to the gospel.  And Mrs Barnes
was the first who joined him.

"I've long hated selling beer and spirits," she said.  "I've seen the misery that the drink
has brought even into our little village.  But I didn't see my way nor my duty plain before,
but I see them now.  You've set me the example, sir; and, please God, I'll follow.  You know
my poor master left me the farm for my life, and I shall be happier there with a little than
I could be if I were to stop here and be making ever so much."

She kept to her resolution.  So the "Oldfield Arms" was closed, to the astonishment of all
the neighbours.  What was the foolish woman about? Had she lost her senses?  Why, the inn was
doing a capital business. Sir Thomas Oldfield himself came down on purpose from Greymoor Park,
when he heard what she was going to do, and tried to talk and laugh her out of it.  But she
was firm.  The house was her own freehold, and she would neither use it herself as an inn,
nor let any one else rent it for the same purpose.  Of course, she was a fool in the eyes of
the world, but she did not care for that; and any one who saw her bright face as she walked
about her farm, would have perceived that, whether fool or no, she had the enjoyment of peace
in her heart.

But the "Oldfield Arms" was not long without a tenant.  The rector took it, as we have before
said, and used it partly as shops, and the large public room as a reading-room.  And thus it
was that the "Dun Cow" remained without a rival as the dispenser of strong drink to the inhabitants
of Waterland.

CHAPTER FOUR.

THE PARK.

It was a great vexation to Sir Thomas Oldfield that Mrs Barnes would neither keep the "Oldfield
Arms" open herself, nor let it as a public- house to any one else.  The "Dun Cow" was quite
an inferior place altogether, and nothing but rebuilding it could turn it into anything like
a respectable house; but it did very well for the villagers to sot in.  There was a good fire,
and plenty of room in its parlour, so the "Dun Cow" kept its name, and reigned alone.  Sir
Thomas, indeed, had no wish to see the public-houses multiplied, for he highly disapproved
of drunkenness, so there was no encouragement to set up another house in a fresh place.  And,
indeed, though there was always custom in abundance for one such establishment, a second would,
at the time of the opening of our story, have driven but a poor trade; for the example and
appeals of the rector for some seventeen years as a Christian total abstainer, together with
the knowledge that all the rectory household were consistent water-drinkers, had been greatly
blessed in Waterland.  Many had left their drunkenness; a happy change had taken place in several
homes; and a flourishing total abstinence society, which included many members from other parishes
and villages, held its monthly meetings in the large temperance room under the presidency of
Bernard Oliphant.

Sir Thomas Oldfield hated drunkenness, and was very severe upon drunkards, under ordinary circumstances,
when brought before him as a magistrate.  But, on the other hand, he hated total abstinence
very cordially also.  He was fond of making sweeping assertions, and knocking timid opponents
down with strong asseverations, which passed for excellent arguments at assize dinners, and
at parties at Greymoor Park; for it is wonderful what exceedingly loose logic will satisfy
even highly-educated people when employed on the side of their appetites or prejudices.  Once,
indeed, the squire was very considerably staggered, but he never liked a reference to be made
afterwards to the occasion. He was presiding at a harvest-home given to his own tenants, and
had passed from a warm eulogium on temperance and moderation to a vehement harangue against
total abstinence and total abstainers.  He was, however, cut short in the midst of his eloquence
by a sturdy-looking labourer, who struggled forward, beer-jug in hand, and, tottering at every
step, spluttered out,--

"Hooray, hooray, Sir Thomas!  Here's long life to the squire--here's long life to moderation.
Hooray lads, hooray!  Here's three cheers for the squire and moderation.  Stand fast to your
principles, like me; as for them total abstainers, they haven't got a leg to stand on."

With that he tumbled forward, and, unable to recover his balance, fell flat on the ground before
Sir Thomas, and lay there utterly unable to rise.

As was the squire, so had he brought up his family.

Greymoor Park was a noble property, which had come down to him through a long line of ancestors.
The house stood on a rocky height, and was surrounded, but not encumbered, by noble groups
of trees, from the midst of which it looked out over sloping terraced gardens, glowing with
flower-beds, which enamelled the smoothest of turf, across the park from which the estate took
its name.  The original house was old, but while the fine bay-windows, massive porch, stately
gables, and wide staircases, with their carved oak balustrades and pendants, had been preserved
untouched, all such modern improvements had been added as would soften off the inconveniences
of a less luxurious age.  The park itself was remarkable for the size and grouping of its timber,
and was well-stocked with deer.  A fine sheet of water also spread itself out over an open
space between the trees, so as to form a delightful variety to the view from the great bay-windows.
Indeed, if the things of the present life could have made a man happy, Sir Thomas had abundant
grounds for happiness in this world.  Yes, in this world, but not beyond it.  For Sir Thomas
was just simply and thoroughly a man of the world, and a most respectable man of the world
too.  No man could place his finger on a blot in his character or conduct.  He lived for the
world, and the world applauded him.  He lived to please self, and to a considerable extent
he succeeded.

Lady Oldfield wished to be something higher.  She knew the emptiness of the world, at least
in theory.  She wished to be a Christian, but was not.  The glow of a pure gospel faith, caught
by intercourse with true Christians, might be often found in her words, but it went no farther;
as the pavement on which the rich hues of a stained glass window fall, is but a cold colourless
pavement after all, so was her heart cold, worldly, colourless for God.  She was careful to
have her children taught religiously--the Bible lesson, the catechism, were learnt both regularly
and perfectly.  No child might omit its prayers night or morning, nor be absent from the daily
family worship.  No household was more strict in its attendance at church; and nothing brought
down more speedily and severely her ladyship's displeasure than negligence to go to God's house,
or irreverence or inattention during the service. Thomas, the eldest son, and heir to the baronetcy,
was at present abroad with his regiment; the second son, Frank, was just one-and-twenty; the
rest of the children were daughters.

Ever since the coming of Bernard Oliphant to Waterland, there had been free intercourse between
the two families at the hall and the rectory; for Mr Oliphant was a distant relation of the
Oldfields, and it was through Sir Thomas that he had been presented to the living.  So the
young people grew up together, though there was, strictly speaking, more intimacy than friendship
between them, especially as the total abstinence principles of the rectory were a bar to any
great cordiality on the part of the squire and his lady.  On this point the baronet and his
wife were entirely agreed.  She was less openly severe, yet quite as determined and bitter
in her opposition as he.  So the two families met, and were civil, and exchanged calls, and
the Oliphants dined at the hall occasionally, and the children of both houses had little gatherings
and feastings together from time to time.  Thus had things gone on for some years after Mr
Oliphant had first shown his colours as a total abstainer; Lady Oldfield jealously watching
her children, lest any of them should be corrupted by the absurd notions, as she counted them,
of the rector and his wife on this subject of total abstinence.  She had, however, nothing
to fear on this score, as regarded her eldest son.  He had never taken much to the Oliphants
as a boy, and his absence from home at school and the university had kept him out of the reach
of their influence till he left England with his regiment.  It was otherwise with the second
son, Frank, who was specially his mother's idol, and indeed almost every one else's too.  From
his earliest boyhood he took people's hearts by storm, and kept them.  No one could see him
and not love that open, generous, handsome face, with its laughing blue eyes, and setting of
rich brown curling hair.  No one could hear his joyous, confiding voice, and the expressions
of unaffected and earnest interest with which he threw himself into every subject which fairly
engaged his attention or affections, without feeling drawn with all the cords of the heart
to the noble boy.  There was such a thorough openness and freedom in all that he did and said,
yet without recklessness and without indifference to the feelings of others.  And when, through
thoughtlessness or forgetfulness, as was not unfrequently the case, he happened to find himself
in some awkward scrape or perplexity, he would toss back his waving hair with a half-vexed
half-comical expression, which would disarm at once his mother's anger, spite of herself, and
turn her severe rebuke into a mild remonstrance.  Alas, that sin should ever mar such a lovely
work of God!  Frank loved the look of nature that lay open all around him, but not his own
books.  He abhorred study, and only submitted to it from a sense of duty.  His father, at Lady
Oldfield's urgent request, kept him at home, and engaged a private tutor for him, whose office
would have been a sinecure but for the concern it gave him to find his pupil so hard to drag
along the most level paths of learning.  Dog's-ears disfigured Frank's books, the result simply
of restless fingers; and dog's heads; executed in a masterly style, were the subjects of his
pen.  He loved roaming about, and there was not an old ruin within many miles round of which
he did not know every crevice, nor any birds of song or prey with whose haunts and habits he
was not intimately acquainted.  In fishing, riding, swimming, he was an early adept, and every
outdoor sport was his delight.  All the dogs in the neighbourhood rejoiced in him, and every
cottager's wife blessed him when he flung his bright smiles around him as he passed along.
At no place was he more welcome than at the rectory, nor was there any house in which he felt
so happy, not even excepting his own home.  With all his wildness he felt the most sincere
love and respect for Mr and Mrs Oliphant, and rejoiced in a day spent with their children.
And there was one of these towards whom he was drawn with feelings of peculiar tenderness.
He was not conscious of it, and would have laughed at the idea had it been suggested to him;
yet it was true that when he was but just sixteen Mary Oliphant had begun to wind herself around
his heart with those numberless invisible cords which would by degrees enchain him in bonds
which no power on earth could break.  Mary, of course, mere child as she then was, and brought
up by her parents as a child should be, obedient, gentle, unobtrusive, delighted in the companionship
of the lively, open-hearted boy, without a thought beyond, and heartily enjoyed many a happy
ramble with him and her brothers among the woods and meadows.  Frank Oldfield could not but
be struck by the love and harmony which reigned in the Oliphant family.  He saw the power of
a religion which made itself felt without thrusting itself forward into notice.  He could not
but reflect sometimes, and then even his sunny brow was clouded, that he wanted a something
which the children at the rectory possessed; that he wanted a great reality, without which
he could not be fully happy.  He saw also the bright side of total abstinence when he spent
a day with the rector's family.  At home there was always abundance of beer and wine upon the
table, and he drank it, like others; and not only drank it, but thirsted for it, and felt as
if he could not do without it.  It was not so when he dined at the rectory, at their simple
one o'clock meal, for he enjoyed his food, and seemed scarcely to miss the stimulant.

One day, when he was sitting at the rectory table, he said to Mr Oliphant, looking up with
one of his bright smiles,--

"I wish I was a total abstainer."

"Well," said Mr Oliphant in reply, with a smile, "I wish you were; but why do you wish it just
now, my dear boy?"

"Oh, I've been thinking a good deal about it lately.  I see you smile, Hubert, but I really
have been thinking--yes, thinking--I've been thinking that I should like to do as you all do;
you're just as happy without beer and wine, and just as well too."

"And is that your only reason, dear Frank?" asked Mrs Oliphant.

"Oh no! that's not all; the plain truth is this, I can't help thinking that if I keep getting
fonder and fonder of beer and wine, as I'm doing now, I shall get too fond of it by-and-by."

Mr Oliphant sighed, and poor Mary exclaimed,--

"Oh, Frank, don't say that."

"Ay, but it's true; don't you think, Mr Oliphant, that I should be better and safer without it?"

"I do, most sincerely, my dear boy," answered the rector; "yes, both better and safer; and
specially the latter."

"I know," said Frank, "that papa and mamma are not fond of total abstinence; but then, I cannot
think that they have really looked into the matter as you have."

"No, Frank, your father and mother do not see the matter in the same light as myself and I
have no right to blame them, for, when I first came to Waterland, I thought nearly the same
as they do.  Perhaps they will take my view by-and-by."

Frank shook his head, and then went on,--

"But you do think it the best thing for young people, as well as grown- up people, to be abstainers?"

"Yes, assuredly; and I will tell you why.  I will give you a little illustration.  There is
a beautiful picture representing what is called the `Lorelei,' a spirit fabled to haunt some
high rocks that overlook the Rhine.  This spirit is represented in the picture as a beautiful
female, with a sweet but melancholy expression of countenance.  She kneels on the top of the
rock, and is singing to a harp, which she strikes with her graceful fingers.  Below is a boat
with two men in it, the one old, and the other young.  The boat is rapidly nearing the rocks,
but both the men are utterly unconscious of their danger--the old man has ceased to hold the
helm, the young man has dropped the oars, and both are fondly stretching out their hands towards
the deceiving spirit, wholly entranced with her song--a few moments more and their boat will
be a wreck.  Now, it is because the drink is such an enticing thing, like the Lorelei spirit;
because it seems to sing pleasantly to us, and makes us forget where we are; because it lures
on old and young to their ruin, by robbing them of their self-control;--it is for these reasons
that I think it such a happy thing to put every safeguard between ourselves and its snares."

"Yes," said Frank thoughtfully; "I know the drink is becoming a snare to me, or may become
so.  What shall I do?  Ought I to give it up altogether?"

"It is a very difficult thing to answer that question," replied the rector.  "I could hardly
urge you to give up beer and wine altogether, if your father and mother positively forbid your
doing so; there is no sin, of course, in the simple taking of fermented liquors, and therefore
I could not advise you to go directly contrary to your parents' orders in this matter."

"There is no harm, however, in my trying to give up beer and wine, if my father and mother
will allow me?"

"Certainly not, my dear boy; and may God make your way plain, and remove or overcome your difficulties."

The day after this conversation, Frank was sitting in his place at the dinner-table of the
hall.  The butler brought him a glass of beer.  "No, thank you," he said.  A little while after
he filled a tumbler with water, and began to drink it.

"Frank, my boy," said his father, "are not you well?  Why don't you take your beer as usual?"

"I'm quite well, thank you, papa; but I'd rather have the water."

"Well, put some port wine in it, at any rate, if you don't fancy the beer to-day."

"I'd rather have neither beer nor wine, thank you, papa."

By this time Lady Oldfield's attention was drawn to what was passing between her husband and son.

"Dear Frank," she said, "I shall not allow you to do anything so foolish as to drink water.
James, hand the beer again to Master Frank."

"Indeed, dear mamma," he urged, "I mean what I say; I really should rather have water."

"Absurd!" exclaimed her ladyship angrily; "what folly has possessed you now?  You know that
the medical men all say that wine and beer are necessary for your health."

"I'm sure, mamma, the medical men needn't trouble themselves about my health.  I'm always very
well when I have plenty of air and exercise. If ever I feel unwell, it is when I've had more
wine or beer than usual."

"And who, pray, has been putting these foolish notions into your head? I see how it is; I always
feared it; the Oliphants have been filling your head with their extravagant notions about total
abstinence. Really, my dear," she added, turning to Sir Thomas, "we must forbid Frank's going
to the rectory, if they are to make our own child fly in the face of our wishes."

"Mamma," cried Frank, all on fire with excitement and indignation, "you're quite mistaken about
the Oliphants; they have none of them been trying to talk me over to their own views.  I began
the subject myself, and asked Mr Oliphant's advice, and he told me expressly that I ought not
to do what you would disapprove of."

"And why should you ask Mr Oliphant's advice?  Cannot you trust your own father and mother?
I am not saying a word against Mr Oliphant as a clergyman or a Christian; he preaches the gospel
fully and faithfully, and works hard in his parish, but on this subject of total abstinence
he holds views which neither your father nor I approve of; and, really, I must not have you
tampered with in this matter."

"Well, dear mamma, I've done; I'll do as you wish.  Farewell water-- welcome beer and wine;
James, a glass of ale."

It was two years after this that a merry company from the hall and rectory set out to explore
a remarkable ruin about five miles distant from Waterland.  Frank was leader of the party;
he had never given his parents any more anxiety on the score of total abstinence--on the contrary,
he had learned to take so freely of wine and beer, that his mother felt at times a little alarmed
lest he should seriously overpass the bounds of moderation.  When at the rectory, he never
again alluded to the subject, but rather seemed eager to turn the conversation when any remark
fell from Mr or Mrs Oliphant on the evils arising from intemperance.  And now to-day he was
in the highest spirits, as he rode on a sprightly little pony by the side of Mary Oliphant,
who was mounted on another pony, and was looking the picture of peaceful beauty.  Other young
people followed, also on horseback.  The day was most lovely, and an inspiriting canter along
lane and over moor soon brought them to the ruin.  It was a stately moss-embroidered fabric,
more picturesque in its decay than it ever could have been in its completeness.  Its shattered
columns, solitary mullions, and pendent fragments of tracery hoary with age, and in parts half
concealed by the negligent profusion of ivy, entranced the mind by their suggestive and melancholy
beauty; while the huge remnant of a massive tower seemed to plead with mute dignity against
the violence which had rent and marred it, and against the encroaching vegetation, which was
climbing higher and higher, and enveloping its giant stones in a fantastic clothing of shrub
and bramble.

Frank and his party first shut up their horses in the old refectory, closing the entrance with
a hurdle, and then dispersed over the ruins. Mary had brought her drawing-pad, that she might
sketch a magnificent pillar, and the remains of a transept arch which rose gracefully behind
it, crowned with drooping ivy, and disclosing in the back ground, through a shattered window,
the dreamy blue of the distant hills.  She sat on the mutilated chapiter of a column, and was
soon so wholly absorbed in her work, that she never turned her eyes to notice Frank Oldfield,
who, leaning against a low archway, was busily engaged in a vigorous sketch, of which herself
was the prominent object.  And who could blame him? for certainly a lovelier picture, or one
more full of harmonious contrast, could hardly have been found, than that presented by the
sweet and graceful figure of the rector's daughter, with its surroundings of massive masonry
and majestic decay.  She all life, a creature of the present, and yet still more of the future,
as bright with the sunshine of a hope that could never die; and they, those mouldering stones,
that broken tracery, those mossy arches, sad in the desolation of the present, sadder still
in the memories of an unenlightened past.  Frank finished his sketch, and, holding it behind
him, stole gently up to the side of Mary Oliphant.

"Ah!" he exclaimed, "a most lovely little bit; and yet, I have the vanity to think that my
choice of a subject has been better than your own."

"The drawing is, no doubt," she answered; "but I hardly think you can find such a picturesque
group as this in any other part of the ruins."

"Let us compare, then," he said, and placed his own sketch by the side of hers.

"Oh, Frank," she cried, "how can you be so foolish?"

At the same time the colour which flushed her face, and the bright smile which lighted it,
showed that the folly was not very reprehensible in her eyes.

"Is it so very foolish?" he asked, half seriously, half playfully. "Well; I wish I had shown
the same kind of folly in my choice of some other things as I have in the choice of a subject."

She was about to reply, when suddenly, without any warning, a savage- looking dog dashed into
the open space before them, and, making a fierce rush at Mary, caught her by the dress.

"Down, you brute, down!" shouted Frank; but the dog still retained his hold, and growled and
tossed himself about savagely.  Frank had no stick nor weapon of any kind in his hands, but
he darted to a heap of loose stones, and snatching one up turned towards the dog.  In the meantime,
Mary, in extreme terror, had dropped her drawing-pad, and plucking her dress from the fierce
creature's mouth, fled with all her speed across the pavement, and sprang up the projecting
stones of an old archway. The dog, with a loud yell, followed her, and easily overtook her,
as the ascent up which she had climbed presented a broad footing.  Utterly terrified, and unconscious
of what she was doing, the poor girl clambered higher and higher to escape her enemy.  Frank
had now turned upon the dog, and hurled one huge stone at him; it passed near, but did not
touch him.  Mary's terror only excited the furious animal to follow, and as she saw him close
upon her again, with a wild cry she leaped right across to an old fragment of a turret which
stood out by itself in an angle of the wall.  The dog hesitated, but, before it could decide
to follow her, another stone from Frank had struck it full in the side. With a tremendous howl
it tumbled down into the court and fled.  Poor Mary! she gasped for breath, and could not for
a long time recover her self-possession.  When at last she became more calm, soothed and encouraged
by the kind voice and earnest entreaties of Frank, it was only to awake to the extreme danger
of her present position.  Fear had made her take a leap which she could never have dared to
attempt in her calm senses.  She looked across the chasm over which she had sprung, and shuddered.
Could she try the leap back again?  No; she dared not.  In the meantime, the stones to which
she was clinging began to loosen beneath her weight.  She looked down, and became giddy.

"Oh, save me--save me--I shall fall!" she cried.  She clutched at a strong stem of ivy which
was climbing up the wall close by, and so supported herself; but it was evident that she could
not long retain her hold in that constrained position, even if the stonework did not give way
beneath her feet.  All the party had now gathered in the open space below, and some began to
climb the path by which she had mounted. Frank, in the meanwhile, was making desperate efforts
to reach the poor girl.

"Hold on--hold on--dear Mary!" he cried; "a few moments, and I shall be with you; don't lose
courage--keep a firm grasp on the ivy; there--I've got a landing on the top of this old arch;
now, I'm only a few feet off--steady, steady--don't stir for your life--only a few moments
more and I shall be at your side."

It was perilous work indeed; and all who beheld him held their breath as he made his way towards
where the object of their deep anxiety was crouched.  Now he was clinging to a rough projecting
stone, now swinging by a rusty bar, now grasping ivy or brambles, and every now and then slipping
as the old masonry gave way beneath his feet.  At last, with immense exertion, he gained a
ledge a little below where the terrified girl was perched, half lying, half crouching.  Here
he had firm standing-ground.  Placing his hand gently upon her, he bade her slide down towards
him, assuring her that she would have a firm footing on the ledge.  She obeyed at once, feeling
his strong arm bearing her up and guiding her.  Another moment, and she stood beside him. 
But now, how were they to descend?  She dared not attempt to leap back to the spot from whence
she had sprung in her terror, and there was no regular descent from the slab on which they
were perched, but only a few projecting stones down the perpendicular face of the wall, and
these at wide intervals.

"There's no way but a roundabout climb down by the ivy," said Frank at last.  "Trust to me,
dear Mary, and do exactly what I tell you.  I will go first, and do you place hand and foot
just as I bid you.  There--put your foot in that crevice--now take firm hold of that branch;
there--now the other foot--now the next step a little to the right, the good ivy makes a noble
ladder--now we're nearly landed; there--be careful not to slip on that round stone--one step
more, and now we're safe.  Oh, thank God, you're safe!"

He clasped her to his heart; she knew that heart was hers; she could not resent that loving
embrace; it was but for a moment.  He released her, and was turning to the friends who were
gathering and pressing round, when a heavy stone, loosened in their descent, fell on his outstretched
arm, and struck him to the ground.

Mary sprang towards him with a cry of deep distress.

"Frank, dear Frank--you're hurt--you're dreadfully hurt, I'm sure."

"No, no; not much, I hope," he said, springing up, but looking very pale.  "It's an awkward
blow rather, but don't distress yourself--we'll make the best of our way home at once--just
one of you see to the horses."

He spoke with effort, for he was evidently in great pain.  Mary's heart ached for him, but
exhaustion and anxiety quite deprived her of the power of speaking or thinking collectively.

The horses were speedily brought.  Frank held out his uninjured arm to help Mary Oliphant to
mount her pony.

"I'm so very, very sorry," she said, "to have caused this disaster, and spoiled our happy day
through my foolish timidity."

"Nay, nay; you must not blame yourself," said Frank.  "I am sure we all feel for you.  It was
that rascal of a dog that did the mischief, but I gave him such a mark of my respect as I don't
think he'll part with for a long time."

Poor Frank, he tried to be cheerful; but it was plain to all that he must be suffering severely.
They were soon on their way home, but a cloud rested on their spirits.  Few words were said
till they reached the spot where the roads to the hall and the rectory parted.  Then Frank
turned to Mary and said, with a look full of tenderness, rendered doubly touching by his almost
ghastly paleness,--

"Farewell; I hope you'll be none the worse, dear Mary, for your fright. I shall send over to-morrow
to inquire how you are.  It was a happy escape."

"Good-bye, good-bye!" she cried; "a thousand thanks for your noble and timely rescue!  Oh,
I hope--I hope--"

She could not say more, but burst into tears.

"All right--never fear for me!" he cried cheerily as he rode off, leaving Mary and a groom
to make their way to Waterland, while himself and the rest of the party hastened on to Greymoor
Park.

They had not far to ride, but Frank was evidently anxious to reach home as speedily as possible.
With clenched teeth and knit brow, he urged on his pony to a gallop.  Soon they reached the
lodge; a few moments more and they had passed along the drive and gained the grand entrance.
Lady Oldfield had just returned from a drive, and was standing on the top step.

"You're early home," she remarked.  "Dear Frank, I hope there's nothing amiss," she added,
noticing the downcast looks of the whole party.

Her son did not answer, but, dismounting with difficulty, began to walk up the steps.  She
observed with dismay that he tottered as he approached her.  Could he have been drinking so
freely as to be unable to walk steadily?  Her heart died within her.  The next moment he staggered
forward, and fainted in her arms.

CHAPTER FIVE.

GOOD RESOLUTIONS.

"What--what is this?" cried Lady Oldfield in bitter distress.  "Frank-- my child--my beloved
boy--oh, open your eyes--look at me--speak--what has happened?  Oh, he's dying, he's dying--James--Richard--carry
him up to his room.  One of you tell Tomkins to ride off immediately for Dr Portman.  Thomas,
fetch me some brandy--quick--quick!"

They carried him in a state of complete insensibility to his room, and laid him on the bed.
His mother stood over him, bathing his temples with eau-de-cologne, and weeping bitterly. 
The brandy was brought; they raised him, and poured a little through his blanched lips; slowly
he began to revive; his lips moved.  Lady Oldfield stooped her ear close to his face, and caught
the murmured word, "Mary."

"Oh, thank God," she exclaimed, "that he is not dead!  Does any one know how this has happened?"

"I believe, my lady," replied one of the servants, "that Mr Frank was hit by a big stone which
fell on him from the top of the ruins.  I heard Juniper Graves say as much."

"Ay, my lady," said another; "it were a mercy it didn't kill Mr Frank outright."

The object of their care began now to come more to himself.  He tried to rise, but fell back
with a groan.

"What can I do for you, my poor boy?" asked his mother; "the doctor will be here soon, but
can we do anything for you now?  Where is your pain?"

"I fear my left arm is broken," he whispered; "the pain is terrible."

"Take some more brandy," said his mother.

He took it, and was able to sit up.  Then with great difficulty they undressed him, and he
lay on the bed pale and motionless till the doctor arrived.  On examination, it was found that
the arm was terribly bruised, but not broken.  There were, however, other injuries also, though
not of a serious character, which Frank had sustained in his perilous climbing to the rescue
of Mary Oliphant.  Fever came on, aggravated by the brandy injudiciously administered.  For
some days it was doubtful what would be the issue; but at last, to the great joy of Sir Thomas
and his wife, the turning-point was passed, and Dr Portman pronounced their child out of danger--all
he needed now was good nursing, sea-air, and proper nourishment.  During the ravings of the
fever his mind was often rambling on the scene in the ruins--at one time he would be chiding
the dog, at another he would be urging Mary to cling firmly to the ivy; and there was a tone
of tenderness in these appeals which convinced Lady Oldfield that her son's heart was given
to the rector's daughter.  This was confirmed by a conversation which she had with him at the
sea-side, where he was gone to recruit his strength. There he opened his whole heart to her,
and confessed the depth of his attachment to her whose life he had so gallantly saved.  Lady
Oldfield was at first pained; she would not have preferred such an alliance for her son.  But,
on further reflection, the prospect was not so displeasing to her.  Mary Oliphant was not inferior
to her son in birth, and would have, when she came of age, a good fortune which had been left
her by a wealthy aunt.  Frank's love for beer and wine, and even spirits, had grown so much
of late, that his mother had begun to feel very anxious about him on that score.  She had no
wish that he should become a total abstainer; indeed she was, at this very time, giving him,
by the doctor's orders, as much porter and wine as he could bear; but she thought that Mary's
total abstinence might act as a check upon him to keep him within the bounds of strict moderation.
She knew, too, that Mary was a genuine Christian, and she sincerely believed that true religion
in a wife was the only solid foundation of domestic happiness. Before, therefore, they returned
to Greymoor Park, Frank had his mother's hearty consent, subject to Sir Thomas's approval,
to his engaging himself to Mary Oliphant.

And what were Mary's own feelings on the subject?  Poor girl, she had never realised before
that day of peril and rescue that she felt, or could feel, more than a half friendly, half
sisterly liking for Frank Oldfield.  She had always admired his open generous disposition,
and had been happy in his society; but they had been so many years companions, that she had
never thought of looking upon him as one likely to form an attachment to herself.  But now
there could be no doubt on the subject. What passed in the old ruin had convinced her that
his heart was given to her; and more than this, that her own heart was given to him.  And now
his sufferings and illness, brought on him through his exertions to save her from destruction,
had called out her love for him into full consciousness.  Yet with that consciousness there
came a deep sense of pain.  It had taken her so by surprise; her heart was given before she
had had time to reflect whether she ought to have given it.  Could she be happy with him? was
he a real Christian? did he love the same Saviour she loved herself?  Oh, these thoughts pressed
heavily upon her spirit, but she spread out her cares first before her heavenly Father, and
then with full childlike openness before her earthly parent--that loving mother from whom she
had never had a single concealment.

Mrs Oliphant sighed when her daughter had poured out her anxieties and difficulties.

"Oh, mamma--dearest mamma!" cried Mary, "what ought I to do?  I am sure he loves me, and I
know that he will tell me so, for he is the very last person to keep back what he feels.  What
would you and dear papa wish me to do, should he declare his affection?  I could not honestly
say that my heart is indifferent to him, and yet I should not dare to encourage him to look
forward to a time when we shall be one on earth, unless I can trust too that we shall be one
hereafter in heaven."

"My precious child," replied her mother, "you know our doubts and our fears.  You know that
Frank has acknowledged to increasing fondness for intoxicating drinks.  You know that his poor
mother will rather encourage that taste.  And oh, if you should marry, and he should become
a drunkard--a confirmed drunkard--oh, surely he will bring misery on my beloved child, and
her father's and mother's grey hairs with sorrow to the grave."

"Dearest mamma, you have only to say that you are convinced that I cannot be happy with him,
or that you and dear papa consider that I ought to relinquish all thoughts about him, and I
will at once endeavour to banish him from my heart."

"No, my child.  Your affections, it is clear, have already become entangled, and therefore
we are not in the same position to advise you as if your heart were free to give or to withhold.
Had it been otherwise, we should have urged you to pause before you allowed any thoughts about
Frank to lodge in your heart, or perhaps to be prepared to give a decided refusal, in case
of his making a declaration of his attachment."

"But you do not think him quite hopeless, dear mamma?  Remember how anxious he seemed at one
time to become a total abstainer.  And might not I influence him to take the decided step,
when I should have a right to do so with which no one could interfere?"

"It might be so, my darling.  God will direct.  But only promise me one thing--should Frank
ask you to engage yourself to him, and you should discover that he is becoming the slave of
intemperance before the time arrives when you are both old enough to marry, promise me that
in that case you will break off the engagement."

"I promise you, dearest mamma, that, cost what struggle it may, I will never marry a drunkard."

It was but a few days after the above conversation that Frank Oldfield called at the rectory.
It was the first time that he and Mary had met since the day of their memorable adventure.
He was looking pale, and carried his arm in a sling, but his open look and bright smile were
unchanged.

"I carry about with me, you see, dear Mary," he said, "my apology for not having sooner called
to inquire after you.  I hope you were not seriously the worse for your fright and your climb?"

"Oh no," she replied earnestly; "only so grieved when I found what you had suffered in saving
me.  How shall I ever thank you enough for sacrificing yourself as you did for me?"

"Well," he answered with a smile, "I suppose I ought to say that you have nothing to thank
me for.  And yet I do think that I may accept of some thanks--and, to tell the truth, I have
just come over to suggest the best way in which the thanks may be given."

Mary did not answer, but looked down; and, spite of herself, her tears would fall fast.

"Dear Mary," he said, "the plainest and shortest way is the one that suits me best.  I want
you to give me your heart--you have had mine long ago, and I think you know it."

She did not speak.

"Oh, Mary, dearest Mary, can I be mistaken?  Cannot you--do not you love me?"

"Frank," she replied, in a low and tearful voice, "it would be affectation in me to make a
show of concealing my love to you.  I do love you.  I never knew it till that day; but since
then I have known that my heart is yours."

She said this so sadly, that he asked half seriously, half playfully,--

"Would you then wish to have it back again?"

"No, dear Frank; I cannot wish that."

"Then one day--if we are spared--you will be my own loving wife?"

There was no reply, but only a burst of tears.

"Mary, dearest Mary, what am I to understand?  Do your parents object to your engaging yourself
to me?  Oh, surely it is not so?"

"No, Frank; they have not objected--not exactly--but--"

She hesitated and looked down.

"Oh, why then not give me a plain `Yes' at once?  You own that your heart is mine--you know
that my heart is yours--why not then promise to be mine altogether?"

"It is true, dear Frank," she replied slowly, "that my heart is yours--I cannot take it back
if I would--but it may be my duty not to give my hand with it."

"Your duty!  Oh, Mary, what a cold, cruel speech!  Why your duty?"

"Well," she replied, "the plain truth is best, and best when soonest spoken.  You must know,
dear Frank, how we all here feel about the sin and misery caused by strong drink.  And you
must know--oh, forgive me for saying it, but I must say it, I must be open with you now on
this subject--you must know that we have reason to fear that your own liking for beer and wine
and such things has been, for the last year or two, on the increase.  And oh, we fear--we fear
that, however unconsciously, you may be on the downward road to--to--"

She could not finish her sentence.

Frank hung down his head, and turned half away, the colour flushing up to the top of his fair
forehead.  He tried to speak, but could not for a while.  At last, in a husky voice, he whispered,--

"And so you will give me up to perish, body and soul, and to go down hill with all my might
and main?"

"No, Frank," she answered, having now regained her composure; "no; I have no wish to give you
up to sin and ruin.  It will rest with yourself.  I cannot promise absolutely that I will be
yours.  It will depend upon--upon--upon what you are yourself when the time comes that we might
marry."

"And you have promised your mother--"

"I have promised--oh, Frank, dear Frank, pardon me if I wound you by plain, rough words, but
they must be spoken--I have promised that I will never be the wife of a drunkard."

He bowed his head on his hand, and there was a long and painful silence. Poor Mary, her heart
bled for him, as she saw the tears forcing their way between his thin, pale fingers.

"Mary," he said at last, "you must be mine; I cannot live without you. Trust me; you shall
have no cause to be ashamed of me.  I know--I feel that I have been in great danger of sliding
into intemperate habits; but you shall see me and hear of me henceforth as strictly moderate.
I solemnly promise you this; and on the very day that makes us one, I will be one with you
in total abstinence also.  Dearest, will this satisfy you?"

"Yes, dear Frank; I have no right to ask more, if you can be strictly moderate; but oh, do
not trust in your own strength.  Pray for help, dear Frank, and then you will be able to conquer."

"Oh, of course," he said hastily; "but never fear, I give you my solemn promise that you shall
never see nor hear of any excess in me."

And did he keep his resolution?  Yes; for a while.  But, alas! how little do those in circumstances
like his really appreciate the awful difficulties which beset those who are struggling to maintain
strict moderation.  This makes drunkenness such a fearful and exceptional sin,--

  "The bow well bent, and smart the spring,
  Vice seems already slain."

The resolution is firmly set; the man walks forth strong as a rock in his determination.  He
begins to drink; his rock is but a piece of ice after all, but he knows it not; it is beginning
to melt with the warmth of the first glass; he is cheered and encouraged by the second glass,
and his resolution seems to himself stronger than ever, while in very truth it is only melting
faster and faster.  At last he is over the border of moderation before he conceives that he
had so much as approached it.  Then, alas! the word "moderation" stands for an unknown quantity,
easy to use but hard to define, since one man's moderation may be another man's excess, and
to-day's moderation may be an excess to- morrow.

Poor Frank was never more in earnest than when he promised Mary Oliphant that he would observe
strict moderation.  He had everything to induce him to keep his word--his love for Mary; his
desire to please his own parents, who had begun to tremble for him; his own self-respect. 
So he left the rectory strong as a lion in his own estimation, yet not without a sort of misgiving
underlying his conviction of his own firmness; but he would not listen to that misgiving for
a moment.

"I mean to be what I have promised, and I will be," he said to himself.  "Mary shall see that,
easy and self-indulgent as I have been, I can be rigid as iron when I have the will to be so."

Poor Frank! he did not knew his own weakness; he did not know that his was not a will of iron,
but was like a foot once badly sprained, which has lost its firm and unfaltering tread.  Happy
would it have been for him had he sought a strength higher than his own--the strength from above.

For several weeks he kept strictly to his purpose.  He limited himself to so much beer and
wine, and never exceeded.  He became proud of his firmness, forgetting that there had been
nothing to test the stamina of his resolution.

At last the annual harvest-home came round.  It was a season of great festivity at Greymoor
Park.  Sir Thomas, as we have said, wished all his tenants and labourers to be sober, and spoke
to that effect on these occasions; at the same time he was equally anxious that both meat and
drink should be dealt out with no niggard hand.  So men and women took as much as they liked,
and the squire was very careful to make no very strict inquiries as to the state of any of
his work-people on the following day; and if any case of intemperance on these occasions came
to his knowledge afterwards, as commonly happened, it was winked at, unless of a very gross
and open character.

"Poor fellows," said the good-natured landlord, "it's only once in a year that they get such
a feast, and I must not be too strict with them. There's many a good fellow gets a little too
much on these days, who is an excellent steady workman and father all the rest of the year.
It's drunkenness--the habit of drunkenness--that is such a sin and scandal."

So everything was done to make the harvest-home a day of feasting and mirth.

On the present occasion the weather was as bright and propitious as could be desired.  A blazing
sun poured down his heat from a cloudless sky; scarce a breath of wind stirred the flag which,
in honour of the day, floated above the entrance of the hall.  Two large tents were spread
out by the borders of the ornamental water, in full view of the hall windows.  A band, hired
for the occasion, poured forth a torrent of fierce music.  Children decked in blue ribbons
and ears of corn ran in and out of the tents, getting in everybody's way; but as everybody
was just then in the best of humours, it was of no consequence.  Visitors began to arrive in
picturesque groups, strolling through the trees towards the tents.  Hot footmen were rushing
wildly about, carrying all sorts of eatables and drinkables.  Tables creaked and plates clattered.
Then, just about one o'clock, came the squire and his lady, followed by many friends, among
whom were Mr and Mrs Oliphant; while Frank, looking supremely happy, with his sunny face all
life and playfulness, came last, with Mary on his arm.  Usually the Oliphants had kept away
from these harvest-homes, for they were not conducted to the rector's satisfaction, but to-day
they had a special reason for coming.  Frank had been over to the rectory with an urgent request
from his father that Mr Oliphant would be present.  He might do good by appearing among them,
and Frank wanted Mary to see how he could use his influence in keeping order and sobriety.
There were loud cheers, pleasant smiles, and hearty greetings as the party from the hall entered
the tents, where all things were as bright and beautiful as banners, mottoes, and ears of corn
arranged in all sorts of appropriate devices could make them.  The tenants dined in one tent,
the labourers and their wives in the other. Sir Thomas and Lady Oldfield presided in the former,
and Frank took the head of the table in the latter.  Mr and Mrs Oliphant and Mary sat near
the baronet.

The two tents were separated by several yards from one another, so that while the guests were
all partaking of dinner at the same time, the hum of voices, the clatter of knives and forks,
the braying of the brass instruments which were performing in the space between the two parties,
and the necessary attention to the wants of the visitors, quite prevented those presiding in
the principal tent from hearing what was passing in the other.  It was the intention of the
squire, after all had been satisfied, to gather both companies together in the open park, and
address them before they separated to join in the various amusements provided for them.

The guests in the chief tent had just concluded their dinner, and those at the upper table,
where the party from the hall had been sitting, were dispersing and making their way into the
open air, when a burst of cheers and shrieks of laughter from the other tent made Sir Thomas
remark, with a slight cloud on his face,--

"Our friends over there seem very merry."

Then came louder cheers and louder laughter.  Mary's heart died within her, she hardly knew
why.  She hurried out of the tent, when she was met by Juniper Graves, the groom, a man from
whom she shrank with special dislike, for reasons which will shortly be explained.

"Come here, miss," he cried, with a malicious grin; "here's Mr Frank making such capital fun;
he'll send us all into fits afore he's done!  I never seed anything like it--it's quite bacchanalian!"

Under other circumstances Mary would have hurried away at once, but the name of Frank acted
like a spell.  She peeped in at the tent-door where the labourers were dining, and almost sank
to the ground at the sight she beheld.

Standing on a chair at the head of the table, his face flushed a deep red, his beautiful hair
tossed back and his eyes flashing with excitement, a bottle flourishing in his right hand,
was Frank Oldfield, roaring out, amidst cheers and shouts of applause, a boisterous, roystering
comic song.  Mary was shrinking back in horror when she saw Juniper Graves glide behind his
young master's chair, and fill his glass from a jug which he held in his hand.  Frank saw the
act, caught up the glass, and drained it in a moment.  Then launching out into his song again,
he swayed himself backwards and forwards, evidently being in danger of falling but for the
help of the groom, who held out his arm to steady him.  Mary tottered back out of the tent,
but not till her eyes had met those of her lover.  Oh! it sickened her to think of so pure
and holy a thing as love in connection with such a face as that.

"My child," said her father, to whom she had hurried, pale, and ready to sink at every step,
"what has happened? what is the matter?  Are you ill?"

"Oh, take me home, take me home," she cried, in a terrified whisper. The noise of the band
prevented others from hearing her words of distress, and she was hidden from the rest of the
company by a fold of the tent.

"But what shall I say to Sir Thomas?" asked her father.

"Say nothing now, dear papa; let us get away from this--this dreadful place--as quickly as
we can.  Send over a note, and say you took me home because I was ill, as indeed I am--ill
in body, sick to death in heart. Dearest mamma, come with us; let us slip away at once."

So they made their way home swiftly and sadly--sadly, for the rector and his wife had both
now guessed the cause of their child's trouble; they had heard something of the uproar, with
sorrowful misgivings that Frank was the guilty cause.

Unhappy Mary!  When they reached home she threw herself into her loving mother's arms, and
poured out all her grief.  A messenger was at once dispatched to the hall with a note of apology
for their abrupt departure.  It was, however, needless.  The messenger brought back word that,
when the people had been gathered for the address, Frank Oldfield had staggered forwards towards
his father so hopelessly intoxicated, that he had to be led away home between two of the servants.
Sir Thomas said a few hasty words to the assembled tenants and work-people, expressing his
great regret at his son's state, but excusing it on the ground of his weakness after his illness,
so that the great heat of the weather had caused what he had taken to have an unusually powerful
effect upon him.  In reply to Mr Oliphant's note, the squire made the same excuse for his son,
and trusted that Miss Oliphant would not take to heart what had happened under such exceptional
circumstances.  But Mary could not pass the matter over so lightly.  She could not wipe out
from her memory that scene in the tent.  She pressed her hand tightly over her eyes, and shuddered
as she thought of Frank standing there, wild, coarse, debased, brutalised, a thing to make
rude and vulgar merriment; while the man, the gentleman, and the Christian had been demonised
out of that fair form by the drink.  Oh, what bitter tears she shed that night as she lay awake,
racked with thoughts of the past and despairing of the future.  The next day came a penitential
letter from Frank; he threw himself on her pity--he had been overcome--he abhorred himself
for it--he saw his own weakness now--he would pray for strength as she had urged him to do--surely
she would not cast him off for one offence--he had been most strictly moderate up to that unhappy
day--he implored her forgiveness--he asked her to try him only once more--he loved her so dearly,
so passionately, that her rejection would be death to him.

What could she say?  She was but a poor erring sinner herself and should she at once shut the
door of pity upon him?  He had fallen indeed, but he might be taught such a lesson by that
fall as he might never forget. Once more--she would try him once more, if her parents thought
her right in doing so.  And could they say nay?--they felt they could not.  Little as they
really hoped for any permanent improvement, they considered that they should be hardly right
in dissuading their child from giving the poor penitent another trial.

So Mary wrote back a loving earnest letter, imploring Frank to seek his strength to keep his
resolution in prayer.  Again they met; again it was sunshine; but, to poor Mary's heart, sunshine
through a cloud.

CHAPTER SIX.

A DISCUSSION.

It was about a month after the harvest-home, so full of sad memories for all at the hall and
rectory, that Mr Oliphant was seated one afternoon in the drawing-room of Greymoor Park.  The
company assembled consisted of the baronet and Lady Oldfield; the baronet's brother, Reverend
John Oldfield; Dr Portman, the medical man; and Bernard Oliphant.

Mr John Oldfield had been telling the news of his part of the county to his brother and sister-in-law.

"You'll be sorry to hear," he continued, "that poor Mildman's dead."

"Indeed!" exclaimed the rector.  "I'm very sorry.  Was there any change in him before his death?"

"No, I fear not.  His has been a very sad case.  I remember him well when he was vicar of Sapton.
A brighter and more loving Christian and pastor I never knew, but somehow or other he got into
drinking habits, and these have been his ruin."

"Poor man," said Sir Thomas, "he used to be the laughing-stock of old Bellowen, his squire;
it was very grievous to see a man throw himself away as he did.  The squire would ply him with
drink, and press the bottle upon him, till poor Mildman was so tipsy that he had to be taken
by the servants to the vicarage.  Sometimes the butler had to put him into a cart, when it
was dark, and had him tumbled out like so much rubbish at his own door."

"Really," said Lady Oldfield, "I was surprised to hear Mr Bellowen talk about him in the way
he did.  He endeavoured in every possible way to get him to drink, while at the very same time
he despised and abused him for drinking, and would launch out at the clergy and their self-
indulgent habits."

"Yes," said her brother-in-law; "no one knew better what a clergyman ought to be than the squire.
We may be very thankful that his charges against our order were gross exaggerations.  We may
congratulate ourselves that the old-fashioned drunken parson is now pretty nearly a creature
of the past.  Don't you think so, Mr Oliphant?"

"I confess to you," replied the rector, "that I was rather thinking, in connection with poor
Mildman's sad history, of those words, `Let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall.'"

"Why, surely you don't think there is much danger in these days of many persons of our profession
becoming the victims of intemperance?"

"I cannot feel so sure about that," was the reply.  "You know I hold strong views on the subject.
I wish I could see more clergymen total abstainers."

"I must say that I quite disagree with you there," said the other; "what we want, in my view,
is, not to make people total abstainers, but to give them those principles which will enable
them to enjoy all lawful indulgences lawfully."

"I should heartily concur in this view," said Mr Oliphant, "if the indulgence in strong drink
to what people consider a moderate extent were exactly on the same footing as indulgence in
other things.  But there is something so perilous in the very nature of alcoholic stimulants,
that multitudes are lured by them to excess who would have been the last to think, on commencing
to drink, that themselves could possibly become transgressors."

"Then it is the duty of us clergymen," said the other, "to warn people to be more on their
guard against excess in this direction but not, by becoming total abstainers ourselves, to
lead our flocks to suppose that there is sin in the mere taking of any amount of intoxicating
liquors, however small."

"I think," said Mr Oliphant, very gravely, "that our duty is something beyond, and, may I say,
above this.  We live in a peculiarly self- indulgent age, when men are exceedingly impatient
of anything like a restraint upon their appetites and inclinations.  We have, besides this,
the acknowledged fact that, where other sins slay their thousands, drunkenness slays its hundreds
of thousands of all ages.  Is it not, then, a privilege, (I always prefer to put it rather
as a privilege than a duty), for us, who are to be as lights in the world, as ensamples to
our flocks, to take a high stand in this matter, and show that we will deny ourselves that
which has so insidiously worked the ruin of millions, that so we may perhaps win poor fallen
creatures, fallen through drink, to come out of their miserable slough by crying to them, not
merely `Come out,' but `Come out and follow us!'"

Mr Oldfield did not answer; but Sir Thomas, turning to the rector, said,--

"I am sure this subject is deeply interesting to both you and myself, on our dear Frank's account.
You know my views on the subject of total abstinence.  Still I feel that there may be exceptional
cases, where its adoption may be wise, and I could imagine that his might be such a case."

"I heartily agree with you," replied Mr Oliphant.

"Oh no, my dear," exclaimed Lady Oldfield; "I am quite sure total abstinence would never suit
poor Frank; his constitution would not bear it; I appeal to you, Dr Portman, is it not so?"

"I am quite of your ladyship's opinion," said the doctor.

"You hear what Dr Portman says," cried her ladyship, turning to the rector.

"I do," was the reply; "but that does not alter my conviction.  Medical men's views have greatly
changed of late years on this subject.  Excuse me, Dr Portman, for thus differing from you."

"Really," interposed Mr Oldfield, "I think you must allow the doctor to be the best judge of
the medical side of the question.  What would you say if the doctor on his part were to intrude
on your province, and question your statements of scriptural truth from the pulpit?"

"I should say," answered Mr Oliphant, "in the first place, that the two cases are essentially
different.  My statements are drawn from an inspired volume, from an express revelation; the
opinions of medical men are simply the deductions of human reason and observation, and are
therefore opinions which may be altered or modified.  But, further, I should say that I never
require my people to receive my statements from the pulpit without question or inquiry.  I
refer them always to the revelation, the inspired record, and bid them search that record for
themselves.  Now, if the doctor can point me to any inspired medical record which lays down
a particular system, and declares directly or by fair inference against total abstinence, I
will at once surrender my present position; but as he will not pretend to possess any such
inspired medical volume, I must still feel myself at liberty to hold different views from himself
on the medical question."

"I am well aware, my dear sir," said Dr Portman, "that you and I shall not agree on this subject,
and, of course, I must allow you to be at liberty to hold your own opinions; but it does seem
to me, I must confess, very strange that you should look upon total abstinence as universally
or generally desirable, when you must be aware that these views are held by so very few of
the medical profession, and have only recently been adopted even by those few."

"I am afraid," said the rector, smiling, "that you are only entangling yourself in further
difficulties.  Does the recent adoption of a new course of treatment by a few prove that it
ought not to be generally adopted?  What, then, do you say about the change in the treatment
of fever cases?  I can myself remember the time when the patient was treated on the lowering
system, and when every breath of air was excluded from the sick-room, doors and windows being
listed lest the slightest change should take place in the stifling atmosphere of the bed-room.
And now all is altered; we have the system supported by nourishments, and abundance of fresh
air let in.  Indeed, it is most amusing to see the change which has taken place as regards
fresh air; many of us sleep with our windows open, which would have been thought certain death
a few years ago.  I know at this time a medical practitioner, (who, by the way, is a total
abstainer, and has never given any of his patients alcoholic stimulants for the last five-and-
twenty years), who, at the age of between seventy and eighty, sleeps with his window open,
and is so hearty that, writing to me a few days since, he says, `I sometimes think what shall
I do when I get to be an old man, being now only in my seventy-fourth year.'  Now, were the
medical men wrong who began this change in the treatment of fever cases? or, because they were
few at first, ought they to have abandoned their views, and still kept with the majority? 
Of course, those who adopt any great change will at first be few, especially if that change
sets very strongly against persons' tastes or prejudices."

"I see that we must agree to differ," said Dr Portman, laughing, and rising to take his leave.

When he was gone, Sir Thomas, who had listened very attentively to Mr Oliphant's remarks, said,--

"I shall certainly put no hindrance in the way of Frank's becoming a total abstainer if you
can persuade him to it, and his health does not suffer by it."

"Nor I," said Lady Oldfield; "only don't let him sign any pledge.  I've a great horror of those
pledges.  Surely, my dear Mr Oliphant, you would not advise his signing a pledge."

"Indeed, I should advise it most strongly," was the reply; "both for his own sake and also
for the sake of others."

"But surely, to sign a pledge is to put things on a totally wrong foundation," observed Mr
John Oldfield; "would not you, as a minister of the gospel, prefer that he should base his
total abstinence on Christian principle rather than trust to a pledge?  Does not the pledge
usurp the place of divine grace?"

"Not at all," said the rector.  "I would have him abstain on Christian principles, as you say;
and I would not have him trust to the pledge, but I would still have him use it as a support,
though not as a foundation.  Perhaps an illustration will best explain my meaning.  I read
some years ago of a fowler who was straying on the shore after sea- birds.  He was so engrossed
with his sport that he utterly failed to mark the rapid incoming of the tide, and when at last
he did notice it, he found to his dismay that he was completely cut off from the land. There
was but one chance of life, for he could not swim.  A large fragment of rock rose above the
waves a few yards behind him; on to this he clambered, and placing his gun between his feet,
awaited the rising of the water.  In a short time the waves had risen nearly to his feet, then
they covered them; and still they rose as the tide came in higher and higher, now round his
ankles, next to his knees; and so they kept gradually mounting, covering his body higher and
higher.  He could mark their rise or fall by the brass buttons on his waistcoat; first one
button disappeared, then another, then a third, then a fourth.  Would the waves rise up to
his mouth and choke him?  His suspense was dreadful.  At last he observed that the topmost
button did not disappear so rapidly as the rest; the next wave, however, seemed quite to cover
it, but in a few minutes it became quite uncovered; in a little while the button next below
became visible, and now he was sure that the tide was ebbing, and that he was safe if only
he could hold out long enough. At last the rock itself became visible, and after many hours
he was able, almost spent with fatigue, to stagger to the land.  Now, what saved that man?
was it his gun?  Surely not; it was the rock: that was his standing-ground.  But was his gun,
therefore, useless?  Assuredly not, for it helped to steady him on the rock, though it could
not take the place of the rock.  Just so with the pledge; it is not the Christian abstainer's
standing-ground.  Christ alone is that standing-ground.  He stands by the grace of Christ;
but the pledge, like the gun, helps to keep him steady on his standing-ground, the Rock of Ages."

"Well," said Mr Oldfield, "let us grant that there is some force in your illustration.  I would
further ask how it can be that Frank's taking the pledge would be a benefit to others as well
as himself?"

"For the same reason that my own signing of the pledge is beneficial," replied the rector.

"Nay," interposed Sir Thomas; "would not your signing the pledge do rather harm than good?
Would it not rather weaken your own influence by giving people reason to think, (those I mean
especially who might not know you well), that you had once been intemperate yourself, or that
you were unable to keep sober, or at any rate moderate, without the help of the pledge."

"On the contrary," replied Mr Oliphant, "I look upon those who take the pledge as greatly encouraging
others who might be inclined to hang back. It shows that the stronger are willing to fraternise
with the weaker. And this is specially the case when those who are known to have never been
entangled in the snares of drunkenness are willing to take the pledge as an encouragement to
those who have fallen.  Perhaps you will bear with me if I offer you another illustration.
There is a great chasm, a raging torrent at the bottom, and a single strong plank across it.
Now persons with steady heads can walk over the chasm without difficulty, along the naked plank;
but there are others who shudder at the very thought, and dare not venture--their heads swim,
their knees tremble, as they approach the edge.  What is to be done?  Why, just put a little
light hand-rail from a post on either side, and let one who is strong of head walk over, resting
his hand on the rail; he does not need the rail for himself but he uses it just to show how
it may be a help, and so the timid and the dizzy-headed follow and feel confidence, and reach
the other side in safety.  Now, suppose the flood at the bottom of that chasm to be intemperance,
the plank total abstinence, and the rail the pledge, and I think you will see that those who
use the pledge, though they really do not need it to steady themselves, may be a great help
to the weak, the timid, and the shrinking."

"I certainly," said Sir Thomas, "have never had the matter set before me in this light.  I
shall think over our conversation; and as regards poor Frank, at any rate, I feel sure that,
if his health will bear it, total abstinence will be the safest, if not the best thing for him."

CHAPTER SEVEN.

THE TEMPTER.

Juniper Graves was under-groom at Greymoor Park.  He was a very fine fellow in his own eyes.
His parents had given him the name of Juniper under the impression that it meant something
very striking, and would distinguish their son from the vulgar herd.  What it exactly signified,
or what illustrious person had ever borne it before, they would have been puzzled to say. 
So he rejoiced in the name of Juniper, and his language was in keeping with it.  High-sounding
words had ever been his passion--a passion that grew with his growth; so that his conversation
was habitually spiced with phrases and expressions in which there was abundance of sound, but
generally an equal lack of sense.  Too full of himself to be willing to keep patiently plodding
on like ordinary people, he had run through a good many trades without being master of any.
Once he was a pastry-cook; at another time a painter; and then an auctioneer--which last business
he held to the longest of any, as giving him full scope for exhibiting his graces of language.
He had abandoned it, however, in consequence of some rather biting remarks which had come to
his ears respecting the choice and suitableness of his epithets.  And now he was groom at the
hall, and had found it to his advantage to ingratiate himself with Frank Oldfield, by rendering
him all sorts of handy services; and as there were few things which he could not do, or pretend
to do, his young master viewed him with particular favour, and made more of a companion of
him than was good for either.  Juniper was a sly but habitual drunkard.  He managed, however,
so to regulate his intemperance as never to be outwardly the worse for liquor when his services
were required by Sir Thomas or Lady Oldfield, or when excess was likely to bring him into trouble.
When, however, the family was away from the hall, he would transgress more openly; so that
his sin became a scandal in the neighbourhood, and brought upon him the severe censure of Mr
Oliphant, who threatened to acquaint the squire with his conduct if he did not amend.  Juniper's
pride was mortally wounded by this rebuke--he never forgot nor forgave it.  For other reasons
also he hated the rector.  In the first place, because Mr Oliphant was a total abstainer; and
further, because he suspected that it was through Mr Oliphant's representations that he had
failed in obtaining the office of postmaster at a neighbouring town, which situation he had
greatly coveted, as likely to make him a person of some little importance.  So he hated the
rector and his family with all the venom of a little mind. No sooner had he discovered the
attachment between Frank and Mary Oliphant, than he resolved to do all in his power to bring
about a rupture; partly because he felt pretty sure that a closer intimacy between Frank and
the Oliphants would be certain to loosen the ties which bound his young master to himself,
and partly because he experienced a savage delight in the thought of wounding the rector through
his daughter.  He soon noticed the restraint which Frank was putting on himself in the matter
of drinking beer and wine, and he resolved to break it down.  He was quite sure that Mary Oliphant
would never marry a drunkard.  So he lost no opportunity of insinuating his own views on the
subject of total abstinence, and also constantly laboured to bring his young master into contact
with scenes and persons likely to lead him into free indulgence in intoxicating drinks.  His
success, however, was but small, till the day of the harvest-home, and then he resolved to
make a great effort.  He contrived to get himself appointed to the office of waiter to Frank
in the second tent, and took special charge of the drinkables.  The beer served out on these
occasions was, by Sir Thomas' express directions, of only a moderate strength; but Juniper
had contrived to secrete a jug of the very strongest ale in a place where he could easily get
at it.  With this jug in hand he was constantly slipping behind his master and filling up his
glass, while Frank was busily engaged in seeing that the wants of his guests were duly supplied.
Excited by the heat of the day and the whole scene, the poor young man kept raising the glass
to his lips, quite unconscious of the way in which his servant was keeping it filled, till
at last he lost all self-control, and launched out into the wildest mirth and the most uproarious
buffoonery.  It was then that Juniper Graves, grinning with malicious delight, sought out Mary
Oliphant, and brought her to gaze on her lover's degradation.

"Now," said he to himself, "I've done it.  There'll be no more love- making atween them two
arter this, I reckon.  A very preposterous plan this of mine--very preposterous."

But great as was the triumph of Juniper at the success of his efforts on this occasion, this
very success was well nigh bringing about a total defeat.  For it came to Frank's ears, by
a side wind, as such things so often do, that his man had been playing him a trick, and had
been filling up his glass continually with strong ale when he was not conscious of it.

"It were a burning shame, it were, to put upon the young master in that way," he overheard
a kind-hearted mother say, one of the tenant's wives. So he taxed Juniper with it, but the
man stoutly denied it.

"Dear me, sir; to think of my behaving in such a uncompromising way to any gentleman.  It's
only them ill-natured folks' prevarications.  I'll assure you, sir, I only just took care that
you had a little in your glass to drink healths with, as was becoming; and I'm sure I was vexed
as any one when I saw how the heat and your weakness together, sir, had combined to bring you
into a state of unfortunate oblivion."

"Well," replied Frank, "you must look-out, Master Juniper, I can tell you.  If I find you at
any of your tricks again, I shall make short work with you."

But Juniper had no intention of being foiled.  He would be more wary, but not less determined.
Upon two things he was thoroughly resolved-- first, that Frank should not become an abstainer;
and secondly, that he should not marry Mary Oliphant.  He was greatly staggered, however, when
he discovered that his young master, after the affair at the harvest- home, had contrived to
make his peace at the rectory.

"I must bide my time," he said to himself; "but I'll circumscribe 'em yet, as sure as my name's
Juniper Graves."

So he laid himself out in every possible way to please Frank, and to make himself essential
to his comforts and pleasures.  For a while he cautiously avoided any allusion to total abstinence,
and was only careful to see that beer and spirits were always at hand, to be had by Frank at
a moment's notice.  If the weather was hot, there was sure to be a jug of shandy-gaff or some
other equally enticing compound ready to be produced just at the time when its contents would
be most appreciated.  If the weather was cold, then, in the time of greatest need, Juniper
had always an extra flask of spirits to supplement what his master carried.  And the crafty
fellow so contrived it that Frank should feel that, while he was quite moderate in the presence
of his parents and their guests, he might go a little over the border with his groom without
any danger.

Things were just in this state at the time when the conversation took place at the hall, which
resulted in the permission to Mr Oliphant to persuade Frank--if he could--to become a pledged
abstainer.  A day or two after that conversation, Frank walked over to the rectory.  He found
Mary busily engaged in gathering flowers to decorate the tables at a school feast.  His heart,
somehow or other, smote him as he looked at her bright sweet face.  She was like a pure flower
herself; and was there no danger that the hot breath of his own intemperance would wither out
the bloom which made her look so beautiful?  But he tossed away the reflection with a wave
of his flowing hair, and said cheerily,--

"Cannot I share, or lighten your task, dear Mary?"

"Thank you--yes--if you would hold the basket while I gather.  These autumn flowers have not
quite the brightness of the summer ones, but I think I love them more, because they remind
me that winter is coming, and that I must therefore prize them doubly."

"Ah, but we should not carry winter thoughts about us before winter comes.  We should look
back upon the brightness, not forward to the gloom."

"Oh, Frank," she replied, looking earnestly at him, with entreaty in her tearful eyes, "don't
talk of looking back upon the brightness.  We are meant to look forwards, not to the gloom
indeed, but beyond it, to that blessed land where there shall be no gloom and no shadows."

He was silent.

"You asked me just now, dear Frank," she continued, "if you could lighten my task.  You could
do more than that--you could take a load off my heart, if you would."

"Indeed!" he exclaimed; "tell me how."

"And will you take it off if I tell you?"

"Surely," he replied; but not so warmly as she would fain have had him say it.

"You remember," she added, "the day you dined with us a long time ago, when you asked papa
about becoming an abstainer?"

"Yes; I remember it well, and that my mother would not hear of it, so, as in duty bound, I
gave up all thoughts of it at once."

"Well, dear Frank, papa has been having a long talk on the very subject at the hall, and has
convinced both your father and mother that total abstinence is not the objectionable thing
they have hitherto thought it to be.  Oh, dear Frank, there is no hindrance there then, if
you still think as you once seemed to think on this subject."

The colour came into his face, and his brow was troubled as he said,--

"Why should you distress yourself about this matter, my own dear Mary. Cannot you trust me?
Cannot you believe that I will be strictly moderate?  Have I not promised?"

"You have promised; and I would hope and believe that--that--" She could not go on, her tears
choked her words.

"Ah, I know what you would say," he replied passionately; "you would reproach me with my failure--my
one failure, my failure under extraordinary excitement and weakness--I thought you had forgiven
me that.  Have I not kept my promise since then?  Cannot you trust me, unless I put my hand
to a formal pledge?  If honour, love, religion, will not bind me, do you think that signing
a pledge will do it?"

"I have not asked you to sign any pledge," she replied sorrowfully; "though I should indeed
rejoice to see you do it.  I only hoped--oh, how fervently!--that you might see it to be your
wisdom, your safety, to become a total abstainer.  Oh, dearest Frank, you are so kind, so open,
so unsuspecting, that you are specially liable to be taken off your guard, unless fortified
by a strength superior to your own.  Have you really sought that strength?  Oh, ask God to
show you your duty in this matter.  It would make me so very, very happy were you to be led
to renounce at once and for ever those stimulants which have ruined thousands of noble souls."

"Dearest Mary, were this necessary, I would promise it you in a moment. But it is not necessary.
I am no longer a child.  I am not acting in the dark.  I see what is my duty.  I see that to
exceed moderation is a sin.  I have had my fall and my warnings, and to be forewarned is to
be forearmed.  Trust me, dear Mary--trust me without a pledge, trust me without total abstinence.
You shall not have cause to blush for me again.  Believe me, I love you too well."

And with this she was forced to be content.  Alas! poor Frank; he little knew the grasp which
the insidious taste for strong drink had fixed upon him.  He liked it once, he loved it now.
And beside this he shrank from the cross, which pledged total abstinence would call upon him
to take up.  His engaging manners made him universally popular, and he shrank from anything
that would endanger or diminish that popularity. He winced under a frown, but he withered under
a sneer; still he had secret misgivings that he should fall, that he should disgrace himself;
that he should forfeit Mary's love for ever if he did not take the decided step; and more than
once he half resolved to make the bold plunge, and sign the pledge, and come out nobly and
show his colours like a man.

It was while this half resolve was on him that he was one evening returning home after a day's
fishing, Juniper Graves being with him.  He had refused the spirit-flask which his servant
held out to him more than once, alleging disinclination.  At last he said,--

"I've been seriously thinking, Juniper, of becoming a total abstainer; and it would do you
a great deal of good if you were to be one too."

The only reply on the part of Juniper was an explosion of laughter, which seemed as if it would
tear him in pieces.  One outburst of merriment followed another, till he was obliged to lean
against a tree for support.  Frank became quite angry.

"What do you mean by making such an abominable fool of yourself;" he cried.

"Oh dear, oh dear," laughed Graves, the tears running over in the extremity of his real or
pretended amusement, "you must pardon me, sir; indeed, you must.  I really couldn't help it;
it did put me so in mind of Jerry Ogden, the Methodist parson.  Mr Frank and his servant Juniper,
two whining, methodistical, parsimonious teetotallers! oh dear, it was rich."  And here he
relapsed into another explosion.

"Methodist parson!  I really don't know what you mean, sir," cried Frank, beginning to get
fairly exasperated.  "You seem to me quite to forget yourself.  If you don't know better manners,
the sooner you take yourself off the better."

"Oh, sir, I'm very sorry, but really you must excuse me; it did seem so very comical.  You
a total abstainer, Mr Frank, and me a-coming arter you.  I think I sees you a-telling James
to put the water on the table, and then you says, `The water stands with you, Colonel Coleman.'"

"Don't talk so absurdly," said Frank, amused in spite of himself at the idea of the water-party,
with himself for the host.  "And what has my becoming a total abstainer to do with Jerry What-do-you-call-him,
the Methodist parson?"

"Oh, just this, sir.  Jerry Ogden's one of those long-faced gentlemen as turns up their eyes
and their noses at us poor miserable sinners as takes a little beer to our dinners.  Ah! to
hear him talk you'd have fancied he was too good to breathe in the same altitude with such
as me. Such lots of good advice he has for us heathens, such sighing and groaning over us poor
deluded drinkers of allegorical liquors.  Ah! but he's a tidy little cask of his own hid snug
out of the way.  It's just the case with them all."

"I'm really much obliged to you," said his master, laughing, "for comparing me to Jerry Ogden.
He seems, from your account, to have been a regular hypocrite; but that does not show that
total abstinence is not a good thing when people take it up honestly."

"Bless your simplicity, sir," said the other; "they're all pretty much alike."

"Now there, Juniper, I know you are wrong.  Mr Oliphant has many men in his society who are
thoroughly honest teetotallers, men who are truly reformed, and, more than that, thorough christians."

"Reformed!  Christians!" sneered Juniper, venomously; "a pretty likely thing indeed.  You don't
know them teetotallers as well as I do, sir. `Oh dear, no; not a drop, not a drop: wouldn't
touch it for the world.' But they manage to have it on the sly for all that.  I've no faith
in 'em at all.  I'd rather be as I am, though I says it as shouldn't say it, an honest fellow
as gets drunk now and then, and ain't ashamed to own it, than one of your canting teetotallers.
Why, they're such an amphibious set, there's no knowing where to have them."

"Amphibious?" said his master, laughing; "why, I should have thought `aquatic' would have been
a better word, as they profess to confine themselves to the water; unless you mean, indeed,
that they are only half water animals."

"Oh, sir," said Graves, rather huffed, "it was only a phraseology of mine, meaning that there
was no dependence to be placed on 'em."

"Well but, Juniper, I am not speaking of hypocrites or sham teetotallers, but of the real ones.
There's Mr Oliphant and the whole family at the rectory, you'll not pretend, I suppose, that
they drink on the sly?"

"I wouldn't by no means answer for that," was the reply; "that depends on circumstantials.
There's many sorts of drinks as we poor ignorant creatures calls intoxicating which is quite
the thing with your tip-top teetotallers.  There's champagne, that's quite strict teetotal;
then there's cider, then there's cherry-brandy; and if that don't do, then there's teetotal
physic."

"Teetotal physic!  I don't understand you."

"Don't you, sir? that's like your innocence.  Why, it's just this way. There's a lady teetotaller,
and she's a little out of sorts; so she sends a note to the doctor, and he sends back a nice
bottle of stuff. It's uncommon good and spirituous-like to smell at, but then it's medicine,
only the drugs ain't down in what the chemists call their `Farming-up-here.'"

"I never heard of that before," remarked Frank.

"No, I don't suppose, sir, as ever you did.  And then there's the teetotal gents; they does
it much more free and easy.  They've got what the Catholics calls a `dispensary' from their
Pope, (and their Pope's the doctor), to take just whatever they likes as a medicine--oh, only
as a medicine; so they carries about with 'em a doctor's superscription, which says just this:
`Let the patient take as much beer, or wine, or spirits, as he can swallow.'"

"A pretty picture you have drawn," laughed Frank.  "I'm afraid there's not much chance of making
you an abstainer."

"Nor you neither, Mr Frank, I hope.  Why, I should be ashamed to see my cheerful, handsome
young master, (you must forgive me, sir, for being so bold), turned into a sour-looking, turnip-faced,
lantern-jawed, whining teetotaller."

"Why, I thought you said just now," said the other, "that they all take drink on the sly; if
that's the case, it can't be total abstinence that spoils their beauty."

Juniper looked a little at fault, but immediately replied,--

"Well, sir, at any rate total abstinence will never do for you.  Why, you'll have no peace
up at the hall, especially in the shooting season, if you mean to take up with them exotic
notions.  Be a man, sir, and asseverate your independence.  Show that you can take too much
or too little as you have a mind.  I wouldn't be a slave, sir.  `Britons never shall be slaves.'"

Here the conversation closed.  The tempter had so far gained his end that he had made Frank
disinclined to join himself at present to the body of stanch abstainers.  He would wait and
see--he preferred moderation, it was more manly, more self-reliant.  Ah, there was his grievous
mistake.  Self-reliant! yes, but that self was blinded, cheated by Satan; it was already on
the tempter's side.  So Frank put off, at any rate for the present, joining the abstainers.
He was, however, very watchful over himself never openly to transgress.  He loved Mary, and
could not bear the thoughts of losing her, but in very deed he loved his own self-indulgence
more.  There was a constraint, however, when they met.  He could not fully meet her deep truthful
eyes with a steady gaze of his own.  Her words would often lead him to prayer, but then he
regarded iniquity in his heart--he did not wish to be taken at his prayer--he did not wish
to be led into pledged abstinence, or even into undeviating moderation at all times--he wished
to keep in reserve a right to fuller indulgence.  Poor Mary! she was not happy; she felt there
was something wrong.  If she tried to draw out that something from Frank, his only reply was
an assurance of ardent affection and devotion. There was no apparent evil on the surface of
his life.  He was regular at church, steady at home, moderate in what he drank at his father's
table and at other houses.  She felt, indeed, that he had no real sympathy with her on the
highest subjects, but he never refused to listen, only he turned away with evident relief from
religious to other topics.  Yet all this while he was getting more deeply entangled in the
meshes of the net which the drink, in the skilful hands of Juniper Graves, was weaving round
him.  That cruel tempter was biding his time. He saw with malicious delight that the period
must arrive before very long when his young master's drinking excesses would no longer be confined
to the darkness and the night, but would break out in open daylight, and then, then for his
revenge.

It was now between two and three years since the harvest-home which had ended so unhappily.
Frank was twenty-one and Mary Oliphant eighteen. This was in the year in which we first introduced
them to our readers, the same year in which it was intended that Hubert Oliphant should join
his uncle Abraham, at any rate for a time, in South Australia.  For the last six months dim
rumours, getting gradually more clear and decided, had found their way to the rectory that
Frank Oldfield was occasionally drinking to excess.  Mary grew heart-sick, and began to lose
her health through anxiety and sorrow; yet there was nothing, so far, sufficiently definite
to make her sure that Frank, since his promise to observe strict moderation, had ever over-passed
the bounds of sobriety.  He never, of course, alluded to the subject himself; and when he could
not help remarking on her altered looks, he would evade any questions she put to him on the
painful subject, or meet them by an appeal to her whether she could prove anything against
him; and by the observation that nothing was easier than to spread rumours against a person's
character.  She was thus often silenced, but never satisfied.

June had come--a bright sky remained for days with scarce a cloud; the hay-makers were everywhere
busy, and the fields were fragrant with the sweet perfume of the mown grass.  It was on a quiet
evening that Mary was returning home from a cottage where she had been to visit a sick parishioner
of her father's.  Her way lay in part through a little plantation skirting a hay-field belonging
to the Greymoor estate.  She had just reached the edge of the plantation, and was about to
climb over a stile into a lane, when she heard loud and discordant voices, which made her blood
run cold; for one of them, she could not doubt, was Frank's.

"This way, Mr Frank, this way," cried another voice, which she knew at once to be that of Juniper
Graves.

"I tell you," replied the first voice, thickly, "I shan't go that way; I shall go home, I shall.
Let me alone, I tell you,"--then there followed a loud imprecation.

"No, no--this way, sir--there's Miss Mary getting over the stile; she's waiting for you, sir,
to help her over."

"Very good, Juniper; you're a regular brick," said the other voice, suddenly changing to a
tone of maudlin affection; "where's my dear Mary--ah, there she is!" and the speaker staggered
towards the stile. Mary saw him indistinctly through the hedge--she would have fled, but terror
and misery chained her to the spot.  A few moments after and Frank, in his shirt-sleeves, (he
had been joining the hay-makers), made his way up to her.  His face was flushed, his eyes inflamed
and staring wildly, his hair disordered, and his whole appearance brutalised.

"Let me help--help--you, my beloved Mary, over shtile--ah, yes--here's Juniper--jolly good
fellow, Juniper--help her, Juniper--can't keep shteady--for life of me."

He clutched at her dress; but now the spell was loosed, she sprang over the stile, and cast
one look back.  There stood her lover, holding out his arms with an exaggerated show of tenderness,
and mumbling out words of half-articulate fondness; and behind him, a smile of triumphant malice
on his features, which haunted her for years, was Graves, the tempter, the destroyer of his
unhappy master.  She cared to see no more, but, with a cry of bitter distress, she rushed away
as though some spirit of evil were close behind her, and never stopped till she had gained
the rectory.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

FAREWELL.

There are impressions cut deeper into the heart by the sudden stroke of some special trial
than any made by the continuous pressure of afflictions, however heavy; impressions which nothing
in this world can efface--wounds, like the three-cornered thrust of the bayonet, which will
not heal up.  Such was the keen, piercing sorrow which the sight of Frank in his drunkenness
had stabbed deep into the soul of Mary Oliphant.  The wound it had made would never heal. 
Oh, miserable drink! which turns the bright, the noble, the intellectual creatures of God into
worse than madmen; for the madman's reason is gone--we pity, but we cannot blame him; but in
the victim of strong drink reason is suspended but not destroyed, and in all the distortion,
grimaces, reelings, babblings, ravings of the miserable wretch while his sin is on him, we
see a self-inflicted insanity, and a degradation which is not a misfortune but a crime.

The day after that miserable meeting at the stile, Frank called at the rectory, the picture
of wretchedness and despair.  Mrs Oliphant came to him, and told him that Mary declined seeing
him; indeed, that she was so utterly unnerved and ill, that she would have been unequal to
an interview even had she thought it right to grant him one.

"Is there no hope for me, then?" he asked.  "Have I quite sinned away even the possibility
of forgiveness?"

"I cannot fully answer for Mary," replied Mrs Oliphant; "but I should be wrong if I said anything
that could lead you to suppose that she can ever again look upon you as she once did."

"Is it really so?" he said gloomily.  "Has this one transgression forfeited her love for ever?
Is there no place for repentance?  I do not justify myself.  I do not attempt to make less
of the fault.  I can thoroughly understand her horror, her disgust.  I loathe myself as a vile
beast, and worse than a beast.  But yet, can I by this one act have cut through every cord
that bound her heart to mine?"

"Excuse me, dear Frank," said the other; "but you mistake in speaking of one transgression--one
act.  It is because poor Mary feels, as I feel too, that this act must be only one of many
acts of the like kind, though the rest may have been concealed from us, that she dare not trust
her happiness in your keeping."

"And who has any right," he asked warmly, "to say that I am in the habit of exceeding?"

"Do you deny yourself that it is so?" she inquired, looking steadily but sorrowfully at him.

His eyes dropped before hers, and then he said,--

"I do not see that any one has a right to put such a question to me."

"Not a right!" exclaimed Mrs Oliphant.  "Have not I a right, dear Frank, as Mary's mother,
to put such a question?  I know that I have no right to turn inquisitor as regards your conduct
and actions in general. But oh, surely, when you know what has happened, when you remember
your repeated promises, and how, alas! they have been broken; when you call to mind that Mary
has expressly promised to me, and declared to you, that she will never marry a drunkard,--can
you think that I, the mother whom God has appointed to guard the happiness of my darling daughter,
have no right to ask you whether or no you are free from that habit which you cannot indulge
in and at the same time honestly claim the hand of my beloved child?"

Frank for a long time made no answer; when he did reply, he still evaded the question.

"I have done wrong," he said; "grievously wrong.  I acknowledge it.  I could ask Mary's pardon
for it on my knees, and humble myself in the dust before her.  I might plead, in part excuse,
or, at any rate, palliation of my fault, the heat of the weather and thirsty nature of the
work I was engaged in, which led me into excess before I was aware of what I was doing.  But
I will not urge that.  I will take every blame.  I will throw myself entirely on her mercy;
and surely human creatures should not be unmerciful since God is so merciful."

"I grieve, dear Frank, to hear you speak in this way," said Mrs Oliphant, very gravely and
sadly; "you should go on your knees and humble yourself in the dust, not before poor sinners,
such as I and my child are, but before Him who alone can pardon your sin.  I think you are
deceiving yourself.  I fear so.  It is not that Mary is void of pity.  She does not take upon
herself to condemn you--it is not her province; but that does not make her feel that she can
look upon you as one who could really make her happy.  Alas! it is one of the miserable things
connected with the drink, that those who have become its slaves cannot be trusted.  I may seem
to speak harshly, but I must speak out. Your expressions of sorrow and penitence cannot secure
your future moderation.  You mean now what you say; but what guarantee have we that you will
not again transgress?"

"My own pledged word," replied Frank, proudly, "that henceforth I will be all that Mary would
have me be."

"Except a pledged total abstainer," said Mrs Oliphant, quietly.

Frank remained silent for a few moments, then he said,--

"If I cannot control myself without a pledge, I shall never do so with one."

"No, not by the pledge only, or chiefly.  But it would be a help.  It would be a check.  It
would be a something to appeal to, as being an open declaration of what you were resolved to
keep to.  But oh, I fear that you do not wish to put such a restraint upon yourself, as you
must do, if you would really be what you would have us believe you mean to be.  Were it otherwise,
you would not hesitate--for Mary's sake, for your own peace's sake--to renounce at once, and
for ever, and entirely, that drink which has already been to you, ay, and to us all, a source
of so much misery.  Dear Frank, I say it once for all, I never could allow my beloved child
to cast in her lot for life with one of whom I have reason to fear that he is, or may become,
the slave of that drink which has driven peace, and joy, and comfort out of thousands of English
homes."

"But why should you fear this of me?" persisted Frank.  "Within the last three years I have
fallen twice.  I do not deny it.  But surely two falls in that long space of time do not show
a habit of excess.  On each occasion I was overcome--taken off my guard.  I have now learned,
and thoroughly, I trust, the lesson to be watchful.  I only ask for one more trial.  I want
to show Mary, I want to show you all, that I can still be strictly sober, strictly moderate,
without total abstinence, without a pledge.  And oh, do not let it be said that the mother
and daughter of a minister of the gospel were less ready to pardon than their heavenly Master."

"Oh, Frank," cried Mrs Oliphant, "how grievously you mistake us! Pardon!  Yes; what are we
that we should withhold pity or pardon?  But surely it is one thing to forgive, and quite another
thing to entrust one's happiness, or the happiness of one's child, into hands which we dare
not hope can steadily maintain it.  I can say no more.  Write to Mary, and she will answer
you calmly and fully by letter, as she could not do were she to meet you now."

Poor Frank!  Why did he not renounce at once that enticing stimulant which had already worked
him so much misery?  Was it worth while letting so paltry an indulgence separate for ever between
himself and one whom he so dearly loved?  Why would he not pledge himself at once to total
abstinence?  There was a time when he would have done so--that time when he spoke on the subject
to the rector, and made the attempt at his own home.  But now a spell seemed to hold him back.
He would not or could not see the necessity of relinquishing that which he had come to crave
and love more than his daily food.

"I must use it," he said to himself; "but there is no reason why I should abuse it."

He wrote to Mary and told her so.  He told her that he was now fully alive to his own weakness,
and that she might depend on his watchfulness and moderation, imploring her to give him one,
and but one, more trial. He would watch, he would strive, he would pray to be strictly moderate.
She should never have cause to reproach him again.

She replied:--

  "DEAR FRANK,--It would be cruelty in me were I to hold out any hope to
  you that I can ever again be more to you than one who must always take
  a deep interest in your welfare, and must feel truly grateful to you
  for having saved her life.  That you mean now to be all that you
  promise, I do not doubt; but that you really will be so, I dare not
  hope.  You have been seen by me twice in such a condition as made me
  shrink from you with terror and disgust.  Were we to be married, and
  you should be betrayed into excess, the first time, you would be
  overwhelmed; the second time, you would be ashamed and pained; the
  third time, you would feel it, but not very acutely.  You would get
  used, by degrees, to my witnessing such degradation; it would be
  killing me, but it would be making less and less impression upon you.
  I dare not run the terrible risk.  I dare not join myself to you in a
  bond which could never be severed, however aggravated might be my
  misery and your sin.  Oh, Frank, my heart is well nigh broken!  I have
  loved you, and do love you still.  Let us be one in heaven, though we
  never can be so here.  Pray, oh, pray for grace to resist your
  temptation!  Ask to be made a true follower of the Lord Jesus, and you
  will be guided aright, and we shall meet then in that bright land
  where all shall rejoice together who have, by grace, fought the fight
  and won the victory here.--Sincerely yours, MARY OLIPHANT."

Frank read this letter over and over again, and groaned in the fulness of his distress.  She
had not asked him to become an abstainer.  Was it because she felt that it was hopeless?  He
knew it to be so.  He knew that if he signed the pledge he should only add a broken vow to
his other sins.  He felt that, dearly as he loved Mary, he could not forego all intoxicating
drinks even for her sake.  He dared not pray that he might be able to abstain, for he felt
that he should not really wish for the accomplishment of such a prayer.  Habitual indulgence
had taken all the stiffness out of his will.  And yet the thought of losing Mary was utter
misery.  He leaned his head on his hands, and gazed for a long time on her letter.  At last
there came a thought into his mind.  All might not yet be lost.  There was still one way of
escape.  He rose up comforted, and thrusting the letter into his pocket, sought out his mother.
He found her alone.  She looked at him with deep anxiety and pitying love, as well she might,
when she marked the gloom that had settled down on his once happy face.  Alas she knew its
cause too well. She knew that he was on the downward path of intemperance, and she knew how
rapid was the descent.  She was well aware that his sinful excess had been the cause of the
breaking off of his engagement with the rector's daughter.  Oh, how her heart ached for him.
She would have given all she possessed to see him what he once was.  She was prepared for any
sacrifice, if only he could be reclaimed before it should be too late.

"Dearest mother," he said, throwing himself down beside her, clasping her knees, and looking
up imploringly into her face, "I'm a miserable creature, on the road to ruin, body and soul,
unless something comes to stop me."

"Oh, my boy, my boy!" cried his mother, bursting into tears; "do not say so.  You have gone
astray; but so have we all, one way or other.  There is hope for you if you return.  Surely
the evil habit cannot be already so strong upon you that you cannot summon strength and resolution
to break through it."

"Oh, you do not, you cannot know what a helpless creature I am!" was his reply.  "When once
I begin to taste, every good resolution melts away in a moment."

"Then give up such things, and abstain altogether, my beloved Frank, if that be the case,"
said Lady Oldfield.

"I cannot," he replied bitterly.  "I cannot keep from them, they must be kept from me, and
then I should have some chance."

"But, my dear boy, how can that always be?  You cannot expect your father to banish beer and
wine from his table, and to refuse to set them before his guests.  You cannot expect that he
should debar himself the moderate use of these things because you have, unhappily, learned
to take them immoderately."

"No.  I cannot, of course.  I cannot, and I do not expect it, and therefore I am come to put
before you, my dearest mother, what I believe will be my only chance.  You know that Hubert
Oliphant is going to join his Uncle Abraham in South Australia.  He sails in October.  He is
going by a total abstinence ship, which will not therefore carry any intoxicating drinks. 
Will you and my dear father consent to my going with Hubert?  My unhappy taste would be broken
through by the time the voyage was over, as I should never so much as see beer, or wine, or
spirits; and the fresh sea-air would be a better tonic than porter, wine, or ale; so that you
would have no need to fear about my health."

Lady Oldfield did not reply for several minutes.  She was, at first, utterly confounded at
such a proposal from the son whom she idolised, and she was on the point of at once scouting
the idea as altogether wild and out of the question.  But a few moments' reflection made her
pause. Terrible as was the thought of the separation, the prospect of her son's becoming a
confirmed drunkard was more terrible still.  This plan, if carried out, might result in Frank's
return to habitual sobriety.  Ought she therefore to refuse her sanction absolutely and at
once?  At last she said,--

"And who, my dearest boy, has put such a strange thought into your head? And how long do you
mean to remain away?  And what are you to do when you reach Australia?"

"No one has suggested the thing to me," he replied.  "It came into my mind as I was thinking
over all the misery the drink has brought on me of late.  If I could go with Hubert, you know
what a friend and support I should have in him.  I might remain in the colony two or three
years, and then come back again, please God, a thoroughly sober man; and then perhaps dear
Mary would relent, and give me back my old place in her heart again."

Lady Oldfield drew him close to her, and clasping her arms round him, wept long and bitterly.

"Oh, my boy, my Frank!" she exclaimed; "how shall I bear to part with you?  Yet it may be that
this is God's doing; that he has put this into your heart; and if so, if it should be for your
deliverance from your unhappy habit, I dare not say `No.'  But I cannot tell what your father
will say.  I will put the matter before him, however, and I am sure he will do what is wise
and right."

Sir Thomas did not refuse his consent.  He had felt so keenly the disgrace which his son's
increasing excesses were bringing upon the family, that, sorely as he grieved over the thoughts
of parting with Frank, he was willing that he should join Hubert Oliphant in his voyage, hoping
that the high character and Christian example of the rector's son might be of benefit to his
poor unhappy and erring child.  Frank's countenance brightened when he had obtained his father's
consent, and he at once made known his purpose to Hubert Oliphant, and asked his advice and
help, begging him also to intercede for him with Mary that she would allow him to hope that,
if he returned thoroughly reformed, she would consent to their engagement being renewed.  Hubert,
as well as his father, had felt the deepest pity for Frank, in spite of his grievous falls,
specially when they remembered how, but for his own mother's opposition, he might now have
been one of their little temperance band, standing firm, happy himself, and helping to make
others happy.  They therefore gladly encouraged him to carry out his purpose, promising that
Hubert should introduce him to his Uncle Abraham, who might find for him, while he remained
in the colony, some employment suitable to his station, where Hubert and his uncle could support
and strengthen him by companionship and counsel.  And would Mary hold out any hopes?  Poor
Mary, she loved him still.  Oh, how dearly!  Could she refuse him all encouragement?  No. 
But she dared not promise unconditionally to be to him as in former days.  She would not renew
the engagement now; but she would wait and see the issue of his present plans.

Thus matters stood, when the last week came that Frank and Hubert would spend in their English
homes.  Mary and Frank had met once or twice since his voyage had been decided on, but it was
in the presence of others.  These were sorrowful meetings, yet there was the glow of a subdued
hope, to make them not altogether dark to those who, but for the miserable tyranny of the drink,
might now have been bright with happy anticipations of the future.

And now it was a sweet autumn evening, when every sight and sound was plaintive with the foreshadowings
of a coming winter--the sunset hues, the lights and shadows, the first decaying leaves, the
notes of birds, the hum of insects.  Everything was very still as Mary again trod the little
path from the cottage of the poor woman whom she had been visiting on the evening of Frank's
last sad fall.  She had nearly reached the stile, her eyes bent on the ground, and her heart
full of sorrowful memories and forebodings, when she was startled by hearing the sound of passionate
sobbings.  She raised her eyes.  Kneeling by the stile, his head buried in his hands, was Frank
Oldfield; his whole frame shook with the violence of his emotion, and she could hear her own
name murmured again and again in the agony of his self-reproach or prayer. How sadly beautiful
he looked!  And oh, how her heart overflowed with pitying tenderness towards him.

"Frank," she said; but she could add no more.

He started up, for he had not heard her light tread.  His hair was wildly tossed back, his
eyes filled with tears, his lips quivering.

"You here, Mary," he gasped.  "I little thought of this.  I little thought to meet you here.
I came to take a parting look at the spot where I had seen you last as my own.  Here it was
that I sinned and fooled away my happiness, and here I would pour out the bitterness of my
fruitless sorrow."

"Not fruitless sorrow, I trust, dear Frank," she said gently.  "It cannot be fruitless, if
it be a genuine sorrow for sin.  Oh, perhaps there is hope before us yet!"

"Do you say so, Mary?  Do you bid me hope?  Well, I will live on that hope.  I ask no promise
from you, I do not expect it.  I am glad that we have met here, after all.  Here you have seen
both my degradation and my sorrow."

"Yes, Frank, and I am glad, too; it will connect this sad spot with brighter memories.  God
bless you.  I shall never cease to pray for you, come what will.  May that comfort you, and
may you--may you,--" her tears choked her voice.

"Oh, one word more," he said imploringly, as, having accepted his arm in climbing the stile,
she now relinquished it, and was turning from him--"One word more--one word of parting!  Oh,
one word such as once might have been!"

His hands were stretched towards her.  They might never meet again.  She hesitated for an instant.
Then for one moment they were pressed heart to heart, and lip to lip--but for one moment, and
then,-- "Farewell," "Farewell."

CHAPTER NINE.

YOUNG DECISION.

One week later, and three men might be seen walking briskly along a by- street in Liverpool
towards the docks.  These were Hubert Oliphant, Frank Oldfield, and Captain Merryweather, commander
of the barque Sabrina, bound for South Australia.  The vessel was to sail next day, and the
young men were going with the captain to make some final arrangements about their cabins. 
Hubert looked bright and happy, poor Frank subdued and sad.  The captain was a thorough and
hearty-looking sailor, brown as a coffee-berry from exposure to weather; with abundance of
bushy beard and whiskers; broad-shouldered, tall, and upright.  It was now the middle of October,
just three days after the flight of Samuel Johnson from Langhurst, as recorded in the opening
of our story. As the captain and his two companions turned the corner of the street they came
upon a group which arrested their attention at once.

Standing not far from the door of a public-house was a lad of about fourteen years of age.
He looked worn and hungry, yet he had not at all the appearance of a beggar.  He was evidently
strange to the place, and looked about him with an air of perplexity, which made it clear that
he was in the midst of unfamiliar and uncongenial scenes.  Three or four sailors were looking
hard at him, as they lounged about the public-house door, and were making their comments to
one another.

"A queer-looking craft," said one.  "Never sailed in these waters afore, I reckon."

"Don't look sea-worthy," said another.

"Started a timber or two, I calculate," remarked a third.

"Halloa! messmate," shouted another, whose good-humoured face was unhappily flushed by drink,
"don't lie-to there in that fashion, but make sail, and come to an anchor on this bench."

The lad did not answer, but stood gazing at the sailors in a state of utter bewilderment.

"Have you carried away your jawing-tackle, my hearty?" asked the man who had last addressed him.

"I can't make head nor tail of what you say," was the boy's reply.

"Well, what's amiss with you, then?  Can you compass that?"

"Ay," was the reply; "I understand that well enough.  There's plenty amiss with me, for I've
had nothing to eat or drink since yesterday, and I haven't brass to buy anything with."

"Ah, I see.  I suppose you mean by that foreign lingo that you haven't a shot in your locker,
and you want a bit of summut to stow away in your hold."

"I mean," replied the lad, rather sulkily, "that I'm almost starved to death."

"Well, it's no odds," cried the other.  "I can't quite make you out; but I see you've hoisted
signals of distress: there, sit you down. Landlord, a glass of grog, hot, and sweet, and strong.
Here, take a pull at that till the grog comes."

He handed to him a pewter-pot as he spoke.

The boy pushed it from him with a look of disgust.

"I can't touch it," he said.  "If you'll give me a mouthful of meat instead, I'll thank you;
and with all my heart too."

"Meat!" exclaimed the sailor, in astonishment, "what's the young lubber dreaming about?  Come,
don't be a fool; drink the ale, and you shall have some bread and cheese when you've finished
your grog."

"Jack," expostulated one of his companions, "let the poor lad alone; he hasn't a mind for the
drink, perhaps he ain't used to it, and it'll only make him top heavy.  You can see he wants
ballast; he'll be over on his beam-ends the first squall if he takes the ale and grog aboard."

"Avast, avast, Tom," said the other, who was just sufficiently intoxicated to be obstinate,
and determined to have his own way.  "If I take him in tow, he must obey sailing orders.  Grog
first, and bread and cheese afterwards; that's what I say."

"And I'd die afore I'd touch a drop of the drink," said the poor boy, setting his teeth firmly.
"I've seen enough, and more nor enough, of misery from the drink; and I'd starve to skin and
bone afore I'd touch a drop of it."

"Bravo, my lad, bravo!" cried Captain Merryweather, who had listened to the conversation with
the greatest interest.  "Come hither, my poor boy; you shall have a good meal, and something
better than the grog to wash it down with."

"Oh, never heed Jack, captain," cried one of the other sailors; "he's half-seas over just now,
and doesn't know which way he's steering.  I'll see that the poor lad has something to eat."

"Thank you kindly, my man," replied the captain; "but he shall go with me, if he will."

"Ay, sir," said the boy thankfully, "I'll go with you, for I'm sure you speak gradely."

The whole party soon reached a temperance hotel, and here the captain ordered his young companion
a substantial breakfast.

"Stay here, my lad," he said, "till I come back; I want to have a word with you.  I am going
with these gentlemen to the docks, but I shall be back again in half an hour.  By the way,
what's your name, my boy?"

A deep flush came over the other's face at this question.  He stared at Captain Merryweather,
and did not answer.

"I want to know your name."

"My name?  Ah, well--I don't--you see--"

"Why, surely you haven't forgotten your own name?  What do they call you?"

"Poor fellow!" said Hubert; "his hunger has confused his brain.  He'll be better when he has
had his breakfast."

But the boy had now recovered himself, and replied,--

"I ax your pardon, captain; my name's Jacob Poole."

"Well, Jacob, you just wait here half an hour, and I shall have something to say to you when
I come back, which may suit us both."

When Captain Merryweather returned he found the boy looking out of the window at the streams
of people going to and from the docks.  His head was resting on his two hands, and it appeared
to the captain that he had been weeping.

"Jacob," he cried, but there was no answer.

"Jacob Poole," again cried the captain, in a louder voice.  The other turned round hastily,
his face again flushed and troubled.

"Well, Jacob," said the captain, sitting down, "I suppose you're a teetotaller, from what I
saw and heard to-day."

"Yes, to the back-bone," was the reply.

"Well, so am I.  Now will you mind telling me, Jacob, what has brought you to Liverpool.  I
am not asking questions just for curiosity, but I've taken a liking to you, and want to be
your friend, for you don't seem to have many friends here."

Jacob hesitated; at last he said,--

"Captain, you're just right.  I've no friends here, nor am like to have. I can't tell you all
about myself, but there's nothing wrong about me, if you'll take my word for it.  I'm not a
thief nor a vagabond."

"Well, I do believe you," said the other; "there's truth in your face and on your tongue. 
I flatter myself I know a rogue when I see one. Will you tell me, at any rate, what you mean
to do in Liverpool?"

"That's easier asked nor answered," replied Jacob.  "Captain, I don't mind telling you this
much--I've just run away to Liverpool to get out of the reach of the drink.  I am ready to
do any honest work, if I can get it, but that don't seem to be so easy."

"Exactly so," said Captain Merryweather.  "Now, what do you say, then, to going a voyage to
Australia with me?  I'm in want of a cabin-boy, and I think you'd suit me.  I'll feed and clothe
you, and I'll find you a situation over in Australia if you conduct yourself well on board
ship; or, if you like to keep with me, I'll give you on the return voyage what wages are right."

The boy's eyes sparkled with delight.  He sprang from his seat, grasped the captain's hand
warmly between his own, and cried,--

"Captain, I'll go with you to the end of the world and back again, wage or no wage."

"I sail to-morrow," said the other; "shall you be ready?"

"Ready this moment," was the answer.  "I have nothing of my own but what I stand in."

"Come along then with me," said his kind friend; "I'll see you properly rigged out, and you
shall go on board with me at once."

They had not long left the hotel, and were passing along a back street on their way to the
outfitter's, when a man came hastily out of a low public-house, and ran rather roughly against
Captain Merryweather.

"Halloa, my friend," cried the sailor, "have a care; you should keep a brighter look-out. 
You've run me down, and might have carried away a spar or two."

The man looked round, and muttered something.

"I'm sorry to see you coming out of such a place, my man," added the captain.

"Well, but I'm not drunk," said the other.

"Perhaps not, but you're just on the right tack to get drunk.  Come, tell me what you've had."

"I've only had seventeen pints of ale and three pennorth of gin."

"Is it possible?" exclaimed the captain, half out loud, as the man walked off with a tolerably
steady step.  "He says he's not drunk after taking all that stuff aboard.  Jacob, you seem
as if you knew something of him."

"Ay, captain," said Jacob, who had slunk behind the captain when he saw the man.  "I do, for
sure; but you must excuse my telling you who he is, or where he comes from."

"He's not a good friend or companion for any one, I should think," said the captain.

"He's no friend of mine," answered Jacob; "he's too fond of the drink. And yet he's called
to be a sober man by many, 'cos he brings some of his wage home on the pay-night.  Yet I've
heard him say myself how he's often spent a sovereign in drink between Saturday night and Monday
morning."

"And what do you suppose has brought him here?"

"I can't tell, unless the mayster he works for has sent him over on count of summat.  It's
more like, however, as he's come to see his sister as lives somewhere in these parts."

"And you'd rather he didn't know you are here, I suppose?"

"Just so, captain.  There's them, perhaps, as'd be arter me if he were to tell 'em as he'd
see'd me here; but I don't think as he did see me; he were half fuddled: but he never gets
fairly drunk."

"Well, Jacob, I don't wish to pry into your own private concerns.  I'll take it for granted
that you're dealing honestly by me."

"You may be sure of that, captain.  I'll never deceive you.  I haven't done anything to disgrace
myself; but I wish to get gradely out of the reach of such chaps as yon fellow you've just
spoke to.  I've had weary work with the drink, and I wishes to make a fresh start, and to forget
as I ever had any belonging me.  So it's just what'll suit me gradely to go with you over to
Australia; and you must excuse me if I make mistakes at first; but I'll do my best, and I can't
say anything beyond that."

By this time they had reached the outfitter's, where the captain saw Jacob duly rigged out
and furnished with all things needful for the voyage.  They had left the shop and were on their
way to the docks, when a tall sailor-looking man crossed over to them.  His face was bronzed
from exposure, but was careworn and sad, and bore unmistakable marks of free indulgence in
strong drinks.

"Merryweather, how are you, my friend?" he cried, coming up and shaking the captain warmly
by the hand.

"Ah, Thomson, is that you?" said the other, returning the grasp.  "I was very sorry indeed
to hear of your misfortune."

"A bad business--a shocking business," said his friend, shaking his head despondingly.  "Not
a spar saved.  Three poor fellows drowned.  And all my papers and goods gone to the bottom."

"Yes, I heard something of it, and I was truly grieved.  How did it happen?"

"Why, I'll tell you how it was.  I don't know what it is, Merryweather, but you're a very lucky
fellow.  Some men seem born to luck: it hasn't been so with me.  It's all gone wrong ever since
I left Australia.  We'd fair weather and a good run till we were fairly round the Horn; but
one forenoon the glass began to fall, and I saw there was heavy weather coming.  After a bit
it came on to blow a regular gale.  The sea got up in no time, and I had to order all hands
up to reef topsails.  We were rather short-handed, for I could hardly get men when I started,
for love or money.  Well, would you believe it?--half a dozen of the fellows were below so
drunk that they couldn't stand."

"Ah, I feared," said Captain Merryweather, "that the drink had something to do with your troubles.
But how did they manage to get so tipsy?"

"Oh, they contrived to get at one of the spirit-casks.  They bored a hole in it with a gimlet,
and sucked the rum out through a straw.  There was nothing for it but to send up the steward,
and Jim, my cabin-boy, along with the others who were on deck.  But poor Jim was but a clumsy
hand at it; and as they were lying out on the yard, the poor fellow lost his hold, and was
gone in a moment.  I never caught one look at him after he fell.  Ay, but that wasn't all.
About a week after, I was wanting the steward one morning to fetch me something out of the
lazarette; so I called him over and over again.  He came at last, but so tipsy that I could
make nothing of him; and I had to start him off to the steerage, and take on another man in
his place.  He'd been helping himself to the spirits.  It was very vexing, you'll allow; for
he was quite a handy chap, and I got on very poorly afterwards without him.  I don't know how
you manage, but you seem always to get steady men."

"Yes," said Captain Merryweather; "because I neither take the drink myself nor have it on board."

"Ay, but I can never get on without my glass of grog," said the other.

"Then I'm afraid you'll never get your men to do without it.  There's nothing like example--`example's
better than precept.'"

"I believe you're right.  But you haven't heard the end of my misfortunes, nor the worst either.
It was a little foggy as we were getting into the Channel, and I'd given, of course, strict
orders to keep a good look-out; so two of our sharpest fellows went forward when it began to
get dark, and I had a steady man at the wheel.  I'd been on deck myself a good many hours;
so I just turned in to get a wink of sleep, leaving the first mate in charge.  I don't know
how long I'd slept, for I was very weary, when all in a moment there came a dreadful crash,
and I knew we were run into.  I was out and on deck like a shot; but the sea was pouring in
like a mill-stream, and I'd only just time to see the men all safe in the Condor--the ship
that ran into us--and get on board myself, before the poor Elizabeth went down head foremost.
It's very strange.  I hadn't been off the deck ten minutes, and that was the first time I'd
gone below for the last sixteen hours.  It's just like my luck.  The captain of the Condor
says we were to blame; and our first mate says their men were to blame.  I can't tell how it
was. It was rather thick at the time; but we ought to have seen one another's lights.  Some
one sung out on the other ship; but it was too late then, and our two poor fellows who were
forward looking out were both lost. It's very strange; don't you think so?"

"It's very sad," replied the other; "and I'm heartily sorry for it. It's a bad job anyhow;
and yet, to tell you the honest truth, I'm not so very much surprised, for I suspect that the
drink was at the bottom of it."

"No, no; you're quite mistaken there.  I never saw either the mate or the man at the wheel,
or any of the men who were then on deck, drunk, or anything like it, during the whole voyage."

"That may be," said the other; "but I did not say it was drunkenness, but the drink, that I
thought was at the bottom of it.  The men may have been the worse for drink without being drunk."

"I don't understand you."

"No, I see you don't; that's the worst of it.  Very few people do see it, or understand it;
but it's true.  A man's the worse for drink when he's taken so much as makes him less fit to
do his work, whatever it may be.  You'll think it rather strange, perhaps, in me to say so;
but I do say it, because I believe it, that more accidents arise from the drink than from drunkenness,
or from moderate drinking, as it is called, than from drunkenness."

"How so?"

"Why, thus.  A man may take just enough to confuse him, or to make him careless, or to destroy
his coolness and self-possession, without being in the least drunk; or he may have taken enough
to make him drowsy, and so unfit to do work that wants special attention and watchfulness."

"I see what you mean," said the other.

"Perhaps you'd all been drinking an extra glass when you found yourselves so near home."

"Why, yes.  To tell you the truth, we had all of us a little more than usual that night; and
yet I'll defy any man to say that we were not all perfectly sober."

"But yet, in my way of looking at it," said Captain Merryweather, "you were the worse for liquor,
because less able to have your wits about you.  And that's surely a very serious thing to look
at for ourselves, and our employers too; for if we've taken just enough to make us less up
to our work, we're the worse for drink, though no man can say we're drunk.  Take my advice,
Thomson, and keep clear of the grog altogether, and then you'll find your luck come back again.
You'll find it better for head, heart, and pocket, take my word for it."

"I believe you're right.  I'll think of what you've said," was the reply; and they parted.

"Jacob, my lad," said Captain Merryweather, as they walked along, "did you hear what Captain
Thomson said?"

"Ay, captain; and what you said too.  And I'm sure you spoke nothing but the real truth."

"Well, you just mark that, Jacob.  There are scores of accidents and crimes from drunkenness,
and they get known, and talked about, and punished; but there are hundreds which come from
moderate drinking, or from the drink itself, which are never traced.  Ships run foul of one
another, trains come into collision, houses get set on fire; and the drink is at the bottom
of most of it, I believe, because people get put off their balance, and ain't themselves, and
so get careless, or confused, or excited, and then mischief follows.  And yet no one can say
they're drunk; and where are you to draw the line?  A man's the worse for drink long before
he's anything like intoxicated; for it is in the very nature of the drink to fly at once to
a man's brain.  Ah, give me the man or lad, Jacob, that takes none.  His head is clear, his
hand's steady, his eye is quick.  He's sure not to have taken too much, because he has taken
none at all.--But here we are.  There lies my good ship, the barque Sabrina.  You shall come
on board with me at once, and see your quarters."

CHAPTER TEN.

OUTWARD BOUND.

Six weeks had elapsed since the barque Sabrina had left the port of Liverpool.  She was stealing
along swiftly before a seven knot breeze on the quarter, with studding-sails set.  It was intensely
hot, for they had crossed the line only a few days since.  Captain Merryweather had proved
himself all that a captain should be--a thorough sailor, equal to any emergency; a firm but
considerate commander; an interesting and lively companion, ever evenly cheerful, and watchful
to make all around him comfortable and happy.  Hubert Oliphant was full of spirits--happy himself,
and anxious to make others the same; a keen observer of every natural phenomenon, and admirer
of the varied beauties of ocean and sky; and, better still, with a heart ready to feel the
bounty and love of God in everything bright, lovely, and grand.  Poor Frank had become less
sad; but his sorrow still lay heavy on his spirits.  Yet there was hope for him to cling to;
and he was rejoicing in the subduing of his evil habit, which was thus far broken through by
his forced abstinence. Alas! he did not realise that a smouldering fire and an extinct one
are very different things.  He was sanguine and self-confident; he fancied that his resolution
had gained in firmness, whereas it had only rested quiet, no test or strain having been applied
to it; and, worst of all, he did not feel the need of seeking in prayer that grace from above
which would have given strength to his weakness and nerve to his good resolves.  And yet who
could see him and not love him?  There was a bright, reckless generosity in every look, word,
and movement, which took the affections by storm, and chained the judgment.  Jacob Poole had
become his devoted admirer.  Day by day, as he passed near him, and saw his sunny smile and
heard his animated words, the young cabin-boy seemed more and more drawn to him by a sort of
fascination.  Jacob was very happy.  The captain was a most kind and indulgent master, and
he felt it a privilege to do his very best to please him.  But his greatest happiness was to
listen--when he could do so without neglecting his duty--to the conversations between Frank,
Hubert, and the captain, as they sat at meals round the cuddy-table, or occasionally when in
fair weather they stood together on the poop-deck; and it was Frank's voice and words that
had a special charm for him.  Frank saw it partly, and often took occasion to have some talk
with Jacob in his own cheery way; and so bound the boy still closer to him.

It was six weeks, as we have said, since the Sabrina left Liverpool. The day was drawing to
a close; in a little while the daylight would melt suddenly into night.  Not a cloud was in
the sky: a fiery glow, mingled with crimson, lit up the sea and heavens for a while, and, speedily
fading away, dissolved, through a faint airy glimmer of palest yellow, into clear moonlight.
How lovely was the calm!--a calm that rested not only on the sea, but also on the spirits of
the voyagers, as the vessel slipped through the waters, gently bending over every now and then
as the wind slightly freshened, and almost dipping her studding- sail boom into the sea, which
glittered in one long pathway of quivering moonbeams, while every little wave, as far as the
eye could reach, threw up a crest of silver.  The captain stood near the binnacle.  He was
giving a lesson in steering to Jacob Poole, who felt very proud at taking his place at the
wheel for the first time, and grasped the spokes with a firm hand, keeping his eye steadily
on the compass.  Frank and Hubert stood near, enjoying the lovely evening, and watching Captain
Merryweather and the boy.

"Steady, my lad, steady," said the captain; "keep her head just south and by east.  A firm
hand, a steady eye, and a sound heart; there's no good without them."

"You'll soon make a good sailor of him, captain," said Hubert.

"Ay, I hope so," was the reply.  "He's got the best guarantee for the firm hand and the steady
eye in his total abstinence; and I hope he has the sound heart too."

"You look, captain, as if total abstinence had thriven with you.  Have you always been a total
abstainer?" asked Frank.

A shade of deep sadness came over the captain's face as he answered,--

"No, Mr Oldfield; but it's many years now since I was driven into it."

"Driven!" exclaimed Frank, laughing; "you do not look a likely subject to be driven into anything."

"Ay, sir; but there are two sorts of driving--body-driving and heart- driving.  Mine was heart-driving."

"I should very much like to hear how it was that you were driven into becoming an abstainer,"
said Hubert; "if it will not be asking too much."

"Not at all, sir; and perhaps it may do you all good to hear it, though it's a very sad story.--Steady,
Jacob, steady; keep her full.--It may help to keep you firm when you get to Australia.  You'll
find plenty of drinking traps there."

"I'm not afraid," said Frank.  "But by all means let us have your story. We are all attention."

Hubert sighed; he wished that Frank were not so confident.

"Ay," said the captain, gazing dreamily across the water; "I think I see her now--my poor dear
mother.  She was a good mother to me.  That's one of God's best gifts in this rough world of
ours, Mr Oliphant.  I've known many a man--and I'm one of them--that's owed everything to a
good mother.  Well, my poor mother was a sailor's wife; a better sailor, they say, than my
father never stepped a plank.  He'd one fault, however, when she married him, and only one;
so folks like to put it.  That fault was, that he took too much grog aboard; but only now and
then.  So my poor mother smiled when it was talked about in courting time, and they were married.
My father was the owner of a small coasting-vessel, and of course was often away from home
for weeks and sometimes for months together.  A sister and myself were the only children; she
was two years the oldest.  My father used to be very fond of his children when he came home,
and would bring us some present or other in his pocket, and a new gown, or cap, or bonnet for
my mother.  Yet somehow--I could hardly understand it then--she was oftener in tears than in
smiles when he stayed ashore.  I know how it was now: he'd learned to love the drink more and
more; and she, poor thing, had got her eyes opened to the sin and misery it was bringing with
it.  He was often away at nights now. We children saw but little of him; and yet, when he was
at home and sober, a kinder father, a better husband, a nobler-looking man wasn't to be seen
anywhere.  Well, you may be sure things didn't mend as time went on.  My mother had hard work
to make the stores hold out, for her allowance grew less as we children grew bigger.  Only
one good thing came of all this: when all this trouble blew on my poor mother like a hurricane,
she shortened sail, and ran before the gale right into the heavenly port; or, as you'll understand
me better, she took her sins and her cares to her Saviour, and found peace there.  At last
my sister grew up into a fine young woman, and I into a stout, healthy lad.--Steady, Jacob,
steady; mind your helm.--My father didn't improve with age.  He was not sober as often as he
used to be; indeed, when he was on shore he was very rarely sober, and when he did stay an
hour or two at home he was cross and snappish.  His fine temper and manly bearing were gone;
for the drink, you may be sure, leaves its mark upon its slaves.  Just as it is with a man
who has often been put in irons for bad conduct; you'd know him by his walk even when he's
at liberty--he's not like a man that has always been free.  Ah, my poor mother! it was hard
times for her.  She talked to my father, but he only swore at her.  I shall never forget his
first oath to her; it seemed to crush the light out of her heart.  However bad he'd been before,
he had always been gentle to her.  But he was getting past that.  She tried again to reason
with him when he was sober.  He was sulky at first; then he flew into a passion.  And once
he struck her.  Yes; and I saw it, and I couldn't bear it.  I was flying at him like a tiger,
when my dear mother flung her arms round me, and chained me to the spot.  My father never forgot
that.  He seemed from that day to have lost all love for me; and I must own that I had little
left for him.  My mother loved him still, and so did my sister; but they left off talking to
him about his drunkenness. It was of no use; they prayed for him instead.--Steady, Jacob; luff
a bit, my lad; luff you can."

"And did this make you an abstainer?" asked Hubert.

"No, sir; so far from it, that I was just beginning to like my grog when I could get it.  I
didn't see the evil of the drink then; I didn't see how the habit keeps winding its little
cords round and round a man, till what begins as thin as a log-line, becomes in the end as
thick as a hawser.  My mother trembled for me, I knew; I saw her look at me with tears in her
eyes many a time, when I came home talkative and excited, though not exactly tipsy.  I could
see she was sick at heart.  But I hadn't learned my lesson yet; I was to have a terrible teacher.

"There was a young man who began to visit at our cottage when my sister was just about twenty.
They used to call him--well, that don't matter; better his name should never be spoken by me.
He was a fisherman, as likely a lad as you'd see anywhere; and he'd one boast that few could
make, he had never been tipsy in his life; he was proud of it; he had got his measure, he said,
and he never went beyond it.  He laughed at teetotallers; they were such a sneaking, helpless
lot, he said--why couldn't they take what was good for them, and stop there when they'd had
enough; surely a man ought to be master of his own appetites--he was, he said; he could stop
when he pleased.  However, to make a long story short, he took a great fancy to my dear sister,
and she soon returned it.  Our cottage was near the sea, but on a hill-side some hundred feet
or more above the beach.  High ground rose behind it and sheltered it from the north and east
winds.  It had a glorious view of the ocean, and one of the loveliest little gardens that any
cottage could boast of.  The young man I spoke of would often sit with my sister in the little
porch, when the roses and jessamine were in full flower all over it; and I used to think, as
I looked at them, that a handsomer couple could never be made man and wife.  Well, it was agreed
that they should wait a few months till he was fully prepared to give her a home. My father
just then was ashore, and took to the young man amazingly; he must have him spend many an evening
at our cottage, and you may be sure that the grog didn't remain in the cupboard.  My father
had a great many yarns to spin, and liked a good listener; and as listening and talking are
both dry work, one glass followed another till the young man's eyes began to sparkle, and my
poor sister's to fill with tears; still, he always maintained, when she talked gently to him
about it next day, that he knew well what he was about, that he never overstepped his mark,
and that she might trust him.  Ah, it was easy to talk; but it was very plain that his mark
began to be set glass after glass higher than it used to be.  At last, one night she couldn't
hold any longer, and implored him to stop as he was filling another tumbler.  Upon this my
father burst out into a furious passion, and swore that, as he could find no peace at home,
he'd go where he could find it,--that was to the public-house, of course.  Out they both of
them went, and we saw no more of them that night, you may be sure; and my mother and sister
almost cried their hearts out.  It was some days after this before my sister's lover ventured
to show his face at our place, and then he didn't dare to meet her eye.  She said very little
to him; it was plain she was beginning to lose all hope; and she had reason too, for when the
demon of drink gets a firm hold, Mr Oldfield, he'll not let go, if he can help it, till he's
strangled every drop of good out of a man.  But I mustn't be too long; there isn't much left
to tell, however.--Steady, Jacob, my lad; keep her full.--You may suppose that we hadn't much
more of my father's company, or of the young man's either; they found the public-house more
to their mind; and so it went on night after night. Little was said about the wedding, and
my sister never alluded to it even to us.  At last October came.  It was one lovely moonlight
night, just such a night as this, quiet and peaceful.  My father was to set out on one of his
cruises next morning, and was expecting the mate to bring round his little vessel, and anchor
her in the roads off the shore, in sight of our cottage.  He had come home pretty sober to
tea, bringing my sister's lover with him.  After tea there were several things he had to settle
with my mother; so, while they were making their arrangements, my sister and the young man
had an earnest talk together.  I didn't mean to listen, but I could overhear that he was urging
her to fix an early day for the wedding, with many promises of amendment and sobriety, which
the poor girl listened to with a half-unwilling ear, and yet her heart couldn't say, `No.'
At last my father cried, `Come, my lad, we'll just go up to the top of the hill, and see if
we can make out the Peggy. She ought to be coming round by this time.'

"`Oh, father,' cried my sister, `don't go out again to-night.'

"`Nonsense!' he said, roughly; `do you think I'm a baby, that can't take care of myself?'

"My mother said nothing; my sister looked at her lover with an imploring glance.  I shall never
forget it; there was both entreaty and despair in her eyes.  He hesitated a moment, but my
father was already out of the door, and loudly calling on him to follow.

"`I'll be back again in a few minutes,' he said; `it won't do to cross your father to-night.'

"Ah, those few minutes!  She went to the door.  It was a most lovely night; there was a flood
of moonlight poured out upon land and sea.  All that God had made was as beautiful as if sin
had never spoiled it.  Just a little to the right of our cottage the ground rose up suddenly,
and sloped up about a quarter of a mile to the top of a high cliff, from the edge of which
was a sheer descent, almost unbroken, to the beach, of several hundred feet.  It was a favourite
spot of observation, for vessels could be seen miles off.

"My sister watched her father and lover in the clear moonlight to the top.  There they stood
for about half an hour, and then they turned. But which way?  Home?  It seemed so at first--the
young man was plainly hesitating.  At last he yielded to my father's persuasion, and both disappeared
over the farther side of the high ground.  My unhappy sister, with a wild cry of distress,
came back into the cottage, and threw herself sobbing into a chair.

"`Oh, mother, mother!' she cried, `they're off again--they're gone to the public-house; father'll
be the death of him, body and soul.'

"My mother made no answer.  She could not speak.  She had no comfort to offer.  She knew that
my wretched father was the tempter.  She knew that there was nothing but misery before her child.

"Oh, what a weary night that was!  We sat for hours waiting, listening. At last we heard the
sound of voices--two voices were shouting out snatches of sea-songs with drunken vehemence.
We didn't need any one to tell us whose voices they were.  My sister started up and rushed
out.  I followed her, and so did my mother.  We could see now my father and the young man,
sharp and clear in the moonlight, arm in arm at the top of the cliff.  They were waving their
arms about and shouting, as they swayed and staggered to and fro.  Then they went forward towards
the edge, and tried to steady themselves as they looked in the direction of the sea.

"`They'll be over!' shrieked my sister; `oh, let us try and save them!'

"My mother sank senseless on the ground.  For a moment my sister seemed as if she would do
the same.  Then she and I rushed together towards the cliff at the top of our speed.  We could
just see the two poor miserable drunkards staggering about for a little while, but then a sinking
in the ground, as we hurried on, hid them from our sight.  A few minutes more and we were on
the slope at the top, but where were they?  They were gone--where?  I dared not let my sister
go forward, but I could hardly hold her, till at last she sank down in a swoon.  And then I
made my way to the top of the cliff, and my blood seemed to freeze in my veins as I looked
over.  There they were on the rocks below, some hundred and fifty feet down.  I shouted for
help; some of the neighbours had seen us running, and now came to my relief.  I left a kind
woman with my unhappy sister, and hurried with some fishermen the nearest way to the beach.
It was sickening work climbing to the place on to which my miserable father and his companion
had pitched in their fall.  Alas! they were both dead when we reached them, and frightfully
mangled.  I can hardly bear to go on," and the captain's voice faltered, "and yet I must complete
my story.  We made a sort of large hammock, wrapped them in it, and by the help of some poles
carried them up to our cottage.  It was terrible work.  My sister did not shed a tear for days,
indeed I scarcely ever saw her shed a tear at all; but she pined away, and a few short months
closed her sad life."

The captain paused, and it was long before any one broke the silence. At last Hubert asked,--

"And your mother?"

"Ah, my mother--well, she did not die.  She mourned over her daughter; but I can't say that
she seemed to feel my father's loss so much, and I think I can tell you why," he added, looking
very earnestly at the two young men.  "Mark this, young gentlemen, and you Jacob, too--there's
this curse about the drink, when it's got its footing in a home it eats out all warm affections.
I don't think my mother had much love left for my father in her heart when he died.  His drunkenness
had nearly stamped out the last spark."

"It's a sad story indeed," said Frank, thoughtfully.

"Ay; and only one among many such sad stories," said the captain.

"And so you were led after this to become a total abstainer?"

"Yes; it was on the day of my sister's funeral.  I came back to the cottage after the service
was over with my heart full of sorrowful thoughts.  My mother sat in her chair by the fire;
her Bible was open before her, her head was bowed down, her hands clasped, and her lips moving
in prayer.  I heard them utter my own name.

"`Mother,' I said, springing forward, and throwing my arms round her, `please God, and with
his help, I'll never touch another drop of the drink from this day.'

"`God bless you, my son,' she said, with sobs.  `I've prayed him scores of times that my son
might be preserved from living a drunkard's life, and dying a drunkard's death.  I believe
he's heard me.  I know he has, and I'll trust him to make you truly his child, and then we
shall meet in glory.'  From that day to this not a drop of intoxicating liquor has ever passed
my lips.  But it's time to turn in; we shan't sleep the less sound because we're not indebted
to the grog for a nightcap."

For some days after the captain had told his story, Frank Oldfield's manner was subdued and
less buoyant than usual--something like a misgiving about his own ability to resist temptation,
mingled with sad memories of the past.  But his spirits soon recovered their usual brightness.

It was on a cloudless day, when scarcely a breath of air puffed out the sails, and the dog-vane
drooped lazily, as if desponding at having nothing to do, that Hubert was looking listlessly
over the stern, marking how the wide expanse of the sea was heaving and swelling like a vast
carpet of silk upraised and then drawn down again by some giant hand.  Suddenly he cried out,--

"What's that cutting its way behind us, just below the surface of the water?"

"A shark, most likely," said the mate, coming up.  "Ay, sure enough it is," he added, looking
over the stern.  "Many a poor fellow has lost his life or his limbs by their ugly teeth.  We'll
bait a hook for him."

This was soon done.  A large piece of rusty pork was stuck upon a hook attached to the end
of a stout chain, the chain being fastened to a strong rope.  All was now excitement on board.
The captain, Hubert, Frank, and Jacob Poole looked over at the monster, whose dorsal fin just
appeared above the water.  He did not, however, seem to be in any hurry to take the bait, but
kept swimming near it, and now and then knocked it with his nose.

"Just look at the water," cried Frank; "why, it's all alive with little fish.  I never saw
anything like it."

Indeed, it was an extraordinary sight.  All round the vessel, and as deep down in the water
as the eye could penetrate, the ocean was swarming with millions upon millions of little fishes,
so that their countless multitudes completely changed the colour of the sea.  Jacob Poole,
who was standing close by the captain, now sprang into the boat which hung over the stern to
get a better look at the shark and his minute companions.

"Have a care," shouted the captain, "or you'll be over, if you don't mind."

It was too late; for just as Jacob was endeavouring to steady himself in the boat, a sudden
roll of the ship threw him completely off his balance.  He tried to save himself by catching
at a rope near him, but missed it, and fell right over the boat's side into the sea below.

All was instantly confusion and dismay, for every one on board knew that Jacob was no swimmer.
Happily the ship was moving very sluggishly through the water, so one of the quarter-boats
was instantly lowered from the davits.  But long before it could row to the rescue help had
come from another quarter.  For one moment Hubert and his friend stood looking on transfixed
with dismay, then, without an instant's hesitation, Frank sprang upon the taffrail, and plunged
headlong into the sea.  He was a capital swimmer, and soon reached poor Jacob.  But now a cry
of horror arose from those on board.

"The shark! the shark!"

The creature had disappeared at the moment of the cabin-boy's fall, the sudden and violent
splash having completely scared him away for the instant; but scarcely had Frank reached the
drowning lad, and raised him in the water, than the huge monster began to make towards them.
They were so short a distance from the vessel that those on board could plainly see the movements
of the great fish as he glided up to them.

"Splash about with all your might, for Heaven's sake," roared out the captain.

"All right," cried young Oldfield with perfect coolness, and at the same time making a violent
commotion in the water all round him, which had the effect of daunting their enemy for the
time.  And now the quarter- boat was lowered, and reached them in a few vigorous strokes.

"Pull for your lives, my lads," shouted the mate, who was steering. "Here we are--steady--ship
oars.  Now then, Tom Davies, lay hold on 'em--in with 'em quick--there's the shark again. 
Jack, you slap away at the water with your oar.  Ay, my friend, we've puzzled you this time--a
near shave, though.  Now then, all right.  Give way, my lads.  Jacob, my boy, you've baulked
Johnny shark of his dinner this once."

They were soon alongside, and on deck, and were greeted by a lusty "Hurrah!" from captain and crew.

"Nobly done, nobly done, Mr Oldfield!" cried the captain, with tears in his eyes, and shaking
Frank warmly by the hand.  Hubert was also earnest in his thanks and congratulations.  As for
poor Jacob, when he had somewhat recovered from the utter bewilderment into which his unfortunate
plunge had thrown him, he came up close to his rescuer and said,--

"Mr Oldfield, I can't thank you as I should, but I shan't forget as you've saved my life."

"All right, Jacob," said Frank, laughing; "you'll do the same for me when I want it, I don't
doubt.  But you have to thank our kind friends, the mate and his crew, as much as me, or we
should have been pretty sure to have been both of us food for the fishes by this time."

And so it was that the cabin-boy's attachment to Frank Oldfield became a passion--a love which
many waters could not quench--a love that was wonderful, passing the love of women.  Each day
increased it.  And now his one earnest desire was to serve Frank on shore in some capacity,
that he might be always near him.  Day by day, as the voyage drew to its close, he was scheming
in his head how to bring about what he so ardently desired; and the way was opened for him.

It was in the middle of January, the height of the Australian summer, that the Sabrina came
in sight of Kangaroo Island, and in a little while was running along the coast, the range of
hills which form a background to the city of Adelaide being visible in the distance.  And now
all heads, and tongues, and hands were busy, for in a few hours, if the tide should serve for
their passing the bar, they would be safe in Port Adelaide.

"Well, Jacob; my lad," said Captain Merryweather to the cabin-boy, as he stood looking rather
sadly and dreamily at the land, "you don't look very bright.  I thought you'd be mad after
a run ashore.  Here comes the pilot; he'll soon let us know whether we can get into port before
next tide."

When the pilot had taken charge of the ship, and it was found that there was water enough for
them to cross the bar at once, the captain again called Jacob to him into the cuddy, where
he was sitting with Hubert and Frank.

"I see, Jacob, my boy," he said, "that there's something on your mind, and I think I half know
what it is.  Now, I'm a plain straightforward sailor, and don't care to go beating about the
bush, so I'll speak out plainly.  You've been a good lad, and pleased me well, and if you've
a mind to go home with me, I've the mind, on my part, to take you.  But then I see Mr Oldfield
here has taken a fancy to you, and thinks you might be willing to take service with him.  Ah,
I see it in your eyes, my lad--that settles it.  I promised before we sailed that I'd find
you a good situation out here, and I believe I've done it.  Mr Oldfield, Jacob's your man."

Poor Jacob; the tears filled his eyes--his chest heaved--he crushed his cap out of all shape
between his fingers--then he spoke, at first with difficulty, and then in a husky voice,--

"Oh, captain, I'm afraid you'll think I'm very ungrateful.  I don't know which way to turn.
You've been very good to me, and I couldn't for shame leave you.  I'd be proud to serve you
to the last day of my life. But you seem to have fathomed my heart.  I wish one half of me
could go back with you, and the other half stay with Mr Oldfield.  But I'll just leave it with
yourselves to settle; only you mustn't think, captain, as I've forgotten all your kindness.
I'm not that sort of chap."

"Not a bit, my lad, not a bit," replied the captain, cheerily; "I understand you perfectly.
I want to do the best for you; and I don't think I can do better than launch you straight off,
and let Mr Oldfield take you in tow; and if I'm spared to come another voyage here, and you
should be unsettled, or want to go home again, why, I shall be right glad to have you, and
to give you your wages too."  And so it was settled, much to the satisfaction of Frank and
the happiness of Jacob.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

ABRAHAM OLIPHANT.

"And so you're my nephew Hubert," said a tall, middle-aged gentleman, who had come on board
as soon as the Sabrina reached the port, and was now shaking Hubert warmly by the hand.  "A
hearty welcome to South Australia.  Ah, I see; this is Mr Oldfield.  My brother wrote to me
about you.  You're heartily welcome too, my young friend, for so I suppose I may call you.
Well, you've come at a warm time of the year, and I hope we shall be able to give you a warm
reception.  And how did you leave your dear father, Hubert?  You're very like him; the sight
of your face brings back old times to me.  And how are your brothers and sister?  All well?
That's right.  Thank God for it.  And now just put a few things together while I speak to the
captain.  I'll see that your baggage is cleared and sent up all right after you.  My dog-cart's
waiting, and will take your friend and yourself and what things you may want for a few days."

The speaker's manner was that of a man of good birth and education, with the peculiar tone
of independence which characterises the old colonist. Hubert and Frank both felt at their ease
with him at once.

It was arranged that Jacob Poole should remain with Captain Merryweather for a few days, and
should then join his new master in Adelaide.  After a very hearty leave-taking with the captain,
the young men and Mr Abraham Oliphant were soon on shore.

There was no railway from the port to the city in those days, but travellers were conveyed
by coaches and port-carts, unless they were driven in some friend's carriage or other vehicle.
Driving tandem was much the fashion, and it was in this way that Hubert and Frank were making
their first journey inland.

"Now, my dear Hubert, and Mr Oldfield, jump in there; give me your bags; now we're all right;"
and away they started.

The first mile or two of their journey was not particularly inviting. They passed through Albert
Town, and through a flat country along a very dusty road, trees being few and far between.
A mile farther on and they saw a group of natives coming towards them with at least half-a-dozen
ragged looking dogs at their heels.  The men were lounging along in a lordly sort of way, entirely
at their ease; one old fellow, with a grizzly white beard and hair, leaning all his weight
on the shoulders of a poor woman, whom he was using as a walking-stick.  The other women were
all heavily-laden, some with wood, and others with burdens of various sorts, their lords and
masters condescending to carry nothing but a couple of light wooden spears, a waddy, or native
club, and a boomerang.

"Poor creatures!" exclaimed Hubert; "what miserable specimens of humanity; indeed, they hardly
look human at all."

"Ah," said his uncle, "there are some who are only too glad to declare that these poor creatures
are only brutes, that they have no souls. I've heard a man say he'd as soon shoot a native
as a dingo; that is, a wild dog."

"But you don't think so, dear uncle?"

"Think so! no indeed.  Their intellects are sharp enough in some things. Yes; it is very easy
to take from them their lands, their kangaroo, and their emu, and then talk about their having
no souls, just to excuse ourselves from doing anything for them in return.  Why, those very
men who will talk the most disparagingly of them, do not hesitate to make use of them; ay,
and trust them too.  They will employ them as shepherds, and even as mounted policemen.  But
let us stop a moment, and hear what they have to say."

He drew up, and the natives stopped also, grinning from ear to ear. They were very dark, a
dusky olive colour; the older ones were hideously ugly, and yet it was impossible not to be
taken with the excessive good humour of their laughing faces.

"What name you?" cried the foremost to Mr Oliphant.

"Abraham," was the reply.

"Ah, very good Abraham," rejoined the native; "you give me copper, me call you gentleman."

"Them you piccaninnies?" asked one of the women, pointing to Hubert and Frank.

"No," said Mr Oliphant; "there--there are some coppers for you; you must do me some work for
them when you come to my sit-down."

"Gammon," cried the black addressed; "me plenty lazy."

"A sensible fellow," cried Frank laughing, as they drove on; "he knows how to look after his
own interests, clearly enough; surely such as these cannot be past teaching."

"No indeed," said the other; "we teach them evil fast enough; they learn our vices besides
their own.  You may be sure they drink when they can. Ah, that curse of drunkenness!  Did you
think you had run away from it when you left England?  Happy for you, Hubert, that you're an
abstainer; and I suppose, Mr Oldfield, that you are one too."

"Not a pledged one," said Frank, colouring deeply, "but one in practice, I hope, nevertheless."

"Well, I tell you honestly that you'll find neither beer, wine, or spirits in my house.  To
everything else you are both heartily welcome.--Ah, that's not so pleasant," he exclaimed suddenly.

"Is there anything amiss?" asked Hubert.

"Oh, nothing serious!" was the reply; "only a little disagreeable; but we may perhaps escape
it.  We'll pull up for a moment.  There; just look on a few hundred yards."

Ahead of them some little distance, in the centre of the road, a whirling current of air was
making the dust revolve in a rapidly enlarging circle.  As this circle widened it increased
in substance, till at last it became a furious earth-spout, gathering sticks and leaves, and
even larger things, into its vortex, and rising higher and higher in the air till it became
a vast black moving column, making a strange rustling noise as it approached.  Then it left
the direct road, and rushed along near them, rising higher and higher in the air, and becoming
less and less dense, till its base completely disappeared, and the column spent itself in a
fine streak of sand some hundred feet or more above their heads.

"A pleasant escape," said Mr Oliphant; "we shouldn't have gained either in good looks or comfort
if we had got into the thick of it."

"I should think not indeed," said Frank.  "Do people often get into these whirlwinds, or earth-spouts,
or whatever they should be called?"

"Sometimes they do," said the other, "and then the results are anything but agreeable.  I have
seen men go into them white--white jacket, white waistcoat, white trousers, white hat, and
come out one universal brown-- brown jacket, waistcoat, trousers, hat, eyebrows, whiskers,
all brown."

"Anything but pleasant indeed," said Hubert.  "But do they ever do serious mischief?"

"Not very serious, as far as I know," replied his uncle.  "Once I knew of a pastry-cook's man
who was caught in one of these whirlwinds; he had a tray of tarts on his head, and the wind
caught the tray, and whirled it off, tarts and all.  But here we are at the `Half-way house;'
people commonly can't go many miles here without the drink.  They fancy that, because we live
in a country which is very hot in summer, we want more to drink; but it's just the reverse.
Drink very little of anything in the specially hot days, and you'll not feel the want of it."

And now, after a further drive of three or four miles, the outskirts of the city of Adelaide
were nearly reached, and the distant hills became more plainly visible.

"We shall cross the river by the ford at the back of the jail," said Mr Oliphant, "for there's
very little water in the river now."

"And is this the river Torrens?" asked Hubert, with a slight tone of incredulity in his voice.

"You may well ask," replied his uncle, laughing.  "Torrens is certainly an unfortunate name,
for it leads a stranger naturally to look for a deep and impetuous stream.  Some gentleman
from Melbourne, when he first saw it, was highly incensed and disgusted, and exclaimed, `Is
this crack in the earth your river Torrens?'"

"But I suppose," inquired Frank, "it is not always as shallow as now?"

"No indeed," said the other; "I've seen it many a time a real Torrens. When it comes rushing
down, swollen by numberless little streams from the hills, it will carry almost everything
before it.  Bridges, and strong ones too, it has swept away, and you may judge both of its
violence and of the height to which it rises at such times, when I tell you that, when a flood
has subsided, you may sometimes look up and see a dead horse sticking in the fork of a tree
which had for a time been nearly under water.  And I've often thought that the drink is like
this stream; people will scarce credit at first that it can do so much mischief--it's only
a little drop, or a glass or two, but the drop becomes a stream, and the glass a mighty river,
and down goes all before it, money, home, love, character, peace, everything.  But see, that's
the jail on our left now.  If there were more total abstainers, we shouldn't want such a costly
building, nor so many policemen, as we do now.  Here, as in the old country, the drink is at
the bottom of nine- tenths of the crime.  And now we're just coming up to the top of Hindley
Street.  Look down it; it's a busy street; you can see right away through Rundle Street, which
is a continuation of it, to the Park Lands beyond.  Now, just take a fact about the drinking
habits of this colony. You'll suppose, of course, that this street wants lighting at night.
Well; how is this done?  We have no gas as yet; no doubt we shall have it by-and-by.  Well,
then, look along each side of the street, and you'll see ordinary lamps projecting from houses
at tolerably regular intervals.  These houses are all public-houses.  Every publican is bound
by law to keep a lamp burning outside his house every dark night; and these lamps light the
street very creditably.  I use the word `creditably' simply in reference to the lighting; doesn't
that speak volumes?"

"Yes, indeed," said Hubert; "I fear it tells of abundant crime and misery."

"It does.  But we mustn't dwell on the dark side now, for I want this to be a bright day for
us all.  You see we've some nice shops in Hindley Street."

"Yes," said Frank; "but what a remarkable variety of style in the houses; there are no two
of them, scarcely, alike in size, shape, or height.  They remind me rather of a class of boys
in our dame school at home, where big and little boys, tidy and ragged, stand side by side
in one long row."

"You are rather severe upon us," said Mr Oliphant laughing; "but we are gradually improving;
there is, however, plenty of room yet for improvement, I allow."

And now they turned into King William Street, and drew up at the front of a large store.

"This is my business place," said the merchant; "but I shall not ask you to look at it now;
we must be off again immediately for my country residence among the hills.  Here, James, give
the horses a little water; now then, let us start again."

A few minutes more and they were rapidly crossing the Park Lands.

"These are gum trees, I suppose?" asked Hubert.

"Yes, they are," said his uncle; "but not worth much, either for timber, ornament, or shade.
You wouldn't get much relief from the heat under the poor shadow of their tassel-like foliage."

"What a very strange noise!" exclaimed Frank; "it seems as if a number of stocking-looms were
at work in the air."

"See now," said Mr Oliphant, "the force of habit.  I'm so used to the sound, that I was utterly
unconscious of it.  It is made by the cicada, an insect very common in this country.  And now,
where do you suppose we're coming to?  This little village or township before us is Norwood,
and then comes Kensington.  I've no doubt it will strike you as one of the oddest things in
this colony, till you get used to it, though, of course, it isn't peculiar to this colony,
how places are made close neighbours here, which are very widely separated in the old country,
from which they are borrowed."

"But why not retain the native names?" asked Hubert.

"Ah, why not, indeed?  What can be more musical in sound than Yatala, Aldinga, Kooringa, Onkaparinga.
But then, we could not always find native names enough; and, besides this, the Englishman likes
to keep the old country before him, by giving his place some dear familiar name that sounds
like home."

In about another half hour they reached their destination among the hills.

"The Rocks," as Mr Abraham Oliphant's place was called, was situated on a hill-side, high above
the valley, but on a moderate slope.  A stout post-and-rail fence surrounded the estate, and
one of a more compact nature enclosed the more private grounds.  The house was large, and covered
a considerable surface, as there were no rooms above the basement floor.  The front windows
commanded a magnificent view of the city of Adelaide, with its surrounding lands, suburbs,
and neighbouring villages, and of the sea in the extreme distance.  At the back was a remarkable
group of rocks, from which the estate took its name; these leaned on the hill-side, and were
encased in a setting of wild shrubs and creeping plants of extraordinary beauty.  A stream
of purest spring water perpetually flowed through a wide cleft in these rocks, and afforded
a deliciously cool supply, which never failed in the hottest summer.  The house was surrounded
by a wide verandah, which, like the building itself, was roofed with shingles, and up the posts
and along the edge of which there climbed a profusion of the multiflora rose.  The garden sloped
away from the house, and contained an abundance of both flowers and fruits.  There was the
aloe, and more than one kind of cactus, growing freely in the open air, with many other plants
which would need the hothouse or greenhouse in a colder climate.  Fig-trees, vines, standard
peach, and nectarine trees were in great abundance, while a fence of the sharp Kangaroo Island
acacia effectually kept all inquisitive cattle at a respectful distance.  The inside of the
house was tastefully but not unduly furnished, ancient and modern articles being ranged side
by side in happy fraternity; for a thorough colonist suits his own taste, and is tolerably
independent of fashion.

"Welcome once more to Australia!" exclaimed Mr Oliphant to his young companions; "and more
especially welcome to `the Rocks.'  Come in: here, let me introduce you to my eldest daughter
and youngest son--Jane and Thomas, here's your cousin Hubert; and here's his friend, Mr Frank
Oldfield; you must give them a hearty welcome."

All parties were soon at their ease together.  A sumptuous dinner-tea was soon spread on the
table of the dining-room--the windows of which apartment commanded a view, across the valley,
of the city and distant sea.

Mr Oliphant was a widower, with two daughters and four sons.  Jane had taken her mother's place;
the two eldest sons were married, and settled in other parts of the colony; the third son lived
with his younger sister at a sheep-station about twenty-five miles up the country; the youngest
son, Thomas, a boy about fifteen years old, was still at home, and rode in daily to the collegiate
school, returning in the evening.

"You'll meet your other cousins before long, I hope," said his uncle to Hubert.  "They know,
of course, that you are coming; and when I send them word that you are actually come, we shall
have them riding in at an early day.  I suppose you're used to riding yourself?  Ah, that's
right; then you're pretty independent.  Horseflesh is cheap enough here, but it isn't always
of the choicest quality; however, I can furnish you with what you'll want in that way.  All
your cousins ride, of course, by a sort of colonial instinct.  An Australian and his horse
almost grow together like a centaur."

"And do you ride much, Cousin Jane?" asked Hubert.

"Oh, never mind the `cousin;' you must drop it at once," said Mr Oliphant.  "It's Jane, and
you're Hubert.  But I beg Jane's pardon for smothering her answer."

"Oh yes, Hubert," replied his cousin; "I ride, as a matter of course; we should never get over
much ground, especially in the hot weather, if we walked as much as people seem to do in England.
But I have not yet heard how you left my dear aunt and uncle.  Seeing you seems half like seeing
them; I've heard so much of them."

"I suppose you hardly venture out kangaroo-hunting, Miss Oliphant?" asked Frank.

"I have done so once or twice in the north," she replied; "but the kangaroo is not fond of
so many white faces near his haunts, so he has retired from these parts altogether."

"And you find you can all stand total abstinence here?" asked Hubert of his uncle.

"Stand it!" exclaimed Mr Oliphant; "I should think so.  Why, my dear nephew, it don't need
standing; it's the drink I couldn't stand.  You should see the whole lot of us when we meet
at one of our great family gatherings.  Well, it's not quite the thing perhaps for a father
to say--and yet I fancy it's not very far from the truth--that you'll not see a stouter, a
better grown--Jane, shall I say handsomer?--I certainly may say a healthier, family anywhere;
and not one of us is indebted to any alcoholic stimulant for our good looks."

"You have always, then, been an abstainer since you came to the colony?" asked Frank.

"No, I have not; more's the pity," was the reply; "but only one or two of my children remember
the day when I first became an abstainer.  From the oldest to the youngest they have been brought
up without fermented stimulants, and abhor the very sight of them."

"And might I ask," inquired Frank, "what led to the change in your case, if the question is
not an intrusive one?"

"Oh, by all means; I've nothing to conceal in the matter," said Mr Oliphant; "the story is
a very simple one.  But come, you must make a good tea; listening is often as hungry work as
talking.  Well, the circumstances were just these: when I was left a widower, more than fourteen
years ago, Jane was about twelve years old and Thomas only six months; I was then a moderate
drinker, as it is called--that is to say, I never got drunk; but I'm sure if any one had asked
me to define `moderation,' I should have been sorely puzzled to do so; and I am quite certain
that I often exceeded the bounds of moderation, not in the eyes of my fellow-creatures, but
in the eyes of my Creator--ay, and in my own eyes too, for I often felt heated and excited
by what I drank, so as to wish that I had taken a glass or two less,--yet all this time I never
overstepped the bounds, so as to lose my self-control.  At this time I kept a capital cellar--I
mean a cellar largely stocked with choice wines and spirits.  I did not live then at `the Rocks,'
but in a house on the skirts of the city.  You may be sure that I needed a good nurse to look
after so many growing children who had just lost their dear mother, and I was happy enough
to light upon a treasure of a woman--she was clean, civil, active, faithful, honest, forbearing,
and full of love to the children; in a word, all that I could desire her to be.  She took an
immense deal of care off my hands, and I could have trusted her with everything I had.  Months
passed by, and I began to give large dinner- parties--for I was rather famous for my wines.
Besides this, I was always having friends dropping in, happy to take a glass.  All went on
well--so it seemed--till one afternoon a maid came running into my sitting-room and cried out,
`Oh, sir, nurse is so very ill; what must we do?'  I hurried up-stairs.  There was the poor
woman, sure enough, in a very miserable state.  I couldn't make it out at all.

"`Send for a doctor at once!'  I cried.  In a little while the doctor came.  I waited most
anxiously for his report.  At last he came down, and the door was closed on us.

"`Well, doctor,' I cried, in great anxiety; `nothing very serious, I hope?  I can ill afford
to lose such a faithful creature.'

"I saw a curious smile on his face, which rather nettled me, as I thought it very ill-timed.
At last he fairly burst out into a laugh, and exclaimed, `There's nothing the matter with the
woman, only she's drunk.'

"`Drunk!'  I exclaimed with horror; `impossible!'

"`Ay, but it's both possible and true too,' said the doctor; `she'll be all right, you'll see,
in a few hours.'

"And so she was.  I then spoke out plainly and kindly to her.  Oh, I shall never forget her
misery and shame.  She made no attempt to deny her fault, or even excuse it; she was heart-broken;
she said she must go at once.  I urged her to stay, and to turn over a new leaf.  I promised
to overlook what had passed, and told her that she might soon regain her former place in my
esteem and confidence.  But I could not keep her; she could not bear to remain, much as she
loved the children; she must go elsewhere and hide her disgrace.

"`But how came you to contract such a habit?' said I.  And then she told me that she began
by finishing what was left in the glasses of my friends and myself after dinner; then, as I
never locked up the cellaret--the thirst becoming stronger and stronger--she helped herself
from the bottles, till at last she had become a confirmed drunkard.  I pitied her deeply, as
you may well understand; and would have kept her on, but nothing would induce her to stay.
However, I had learned a lesson, and had made up my mind: I was determined that thenceforward
no one should ever sow the first seeds of drunkenness in my house, or have any countenance
in drinking from my example.  The very morning the unhappy woman left, I made a vigorous onslaught
on the drink.

"`Fetch up the cellar!'  I cried; and the cellar was forthwith fetched up.  Beer barrels, wine
bottles and spirit-bottles, dozens of pale ale and bitter beer, were soon dragged into light.

"`Now, fetch me the kitchen-poker!'  I shouted; it was brought me, and I commenced such a smashing
as I should think has never been witnessed before, nor is likely to be witnessed again.  Right
and left, and all round me, the yard was flooded with malt liquors, spirits and wines. Then
I knocked out the bungs of the casks, and joined their contents to the flood.  You may suppose
there was some little staring at all this, but it mattered nothing to me.  I was resolved that
what had ruined my poor nurse should never ruin any one else at my cost, or in my house; so
from that day to this no alcoholic stimulant has passed my lips; nor been given by me to man,
woman, or child; nor, please God, ever shall be.--Now, my dear young friends, you have had
the history of what first led me to become a total abstainer."

There was a silence for several minutes, which was at last broken by Hubert's asking,--

"And what became of the unhappy woman, dear uncle?"

"Ah! don't ask me.  She went from bad to worse while she remained in the colony.  For so it
commonly is with drunkards, but most of all with female drunkards.  I've known--and I thank
God for it--many a reformed male drunkard; but when women take decidedly to drinking, it is
very rare indeed to see them cured--at least, that has been my experience. I got poor nurse
away with a friend of mine who was going in a temperance ship to England, hoping that the habit
might be broken off during the voyage.  But, alas! she broke out again soon after reaching
home, and died at last a miserable death in a workhouse.  But I see you look rather fagged,
Mr Oldfield.  Shall we take a turn in the garden before it gets dark, and then perhaps you'll
like a little music?"

And now we must leave Abraham Oliphant and Australia for a while, and return to Langhurst,
and some of the earlier characters of our story.

CHAPTER TWELVE.

AN EXPLOSION IN THE PIT.

"No letter yet from our Sammul," cried Betty, wearily and sadly, as she came from the mill
on a dreary night in the November after her brother's sudden departure.  "I thought as how
he'd have been sure to write to me. Well, I suppose we must make ourselves content till he's
got over the sea.  But oh, it'll be weary work till we've heard summat from him."

"Hush, hush, there's a good bairn," said her mother, though the tears were all the while running
down her own cheeks as she spoke; "don't take on so; you'll drive your fayther clean crazy.
He's down in the mouth enough already.  Come, don't fret in that fashion, Thomas; Sammul'll
come back afore long: you've been crouching down by the hearth-stone long enough.  If you'll
be guided by me, you'll just take a drop of good ale, it'll liven you up a bit; you want summat
of the sort, or you'll shrivel up till you've nothing but skin on your bones."

"Ale!" cried Thomas, indignantly; "ale'll not make me better--ale won't make me forget--ale
won't bring back our Sammul, it's driven him far enough away."

"Well," said his wife, soothingly, "you must go your own way; only, if you keep a-fretting
of that fashion, you'll not be able to do your work gradely, and then we shall all have to
starve, and that'll be worse for you still."

"Better starve," replied her husband moodily, "nor ruin body and soul with the drink; I'll
have no more of it."

"Well, you can please yourself;" replied Alice, "so long as you don't take me with you.  But
I must have my drop of beer and my pipe, I can't live without 'em; and so you may rest content
with that; it's the truth, it is for sure."

"Mother," said Betty, mournfully, "can you really talk in that fashion to fayther, when you
know how the drink's been the cause of all the misery in our house, till it's driven our poor
Sammul away to crouch him down on other folk's hearth-stones in foreign parts?  I should have
thought we might all have learnt a lesson by this time."

"It's no use talking, child," replied her mother; "you go your way, and take your fayther with
you if he's a mind, but don't think to come over me with your talk; I'm not a babe, I can take
care of myself.  The drink's good enough in moderation, and I'm going to be moderate.  But
lads and wenches is so proud now-a-days that mothers has to hearken and childer does the teaching."

Poor Betty! she sighed, and said no more.  Johnson also saw that it was no use reasoning with
his wife.  Her appetite for the drink was unquenchable.  It was clear that she loved it better
than husband, children, home, conscience, soul.  Alas! poor Thomas's was a heavy burden indeed.
Could he only have been sure that his son was alive and well, he could have borne his troubles
better; but now he seemed crushed to the very earth.  And yet, strange as it might seem, he
did not feel tempted to fly to the drink again for consolation; he rather shrank from the very
sight and thought of it.  Ah, there were many prayers being offered up for him; unseen hands
were guiding him, and in his home was the daily presence of one who was indeed a help and comfort
to him.  He clung to Betty now, and she to him, with a peculiar tenderness.  Her heart was
full of the warm glow of unselfish love, and his was learning to expand and unfold under the
influence of her bright example.  Theirs was a common sorrow and a common hope, as far as Samuel
was concerned. Why had he not written to them from Liverpool, or from whatever port he had
sailed from?  That he had gone beyond the sea, they were both firmly convinced.  Betty, of
course, had her own special sorrow.  She could not forget that terrible night--she could not
forget the knife and the blood--though she was still fully persuaded that her brother had not
laid violent hands on himself.  But oh, if he would only write, what a load of misery would
be taken off both their hearts; yet no letter came. November wore away, December came and went,
the new year began, still there was no news of Samuel.  Ned Brierley did all he could to console
the unhappy father and daughter, and with some success.  He was very urgent with Thomas to
sign the pledge, and thus openly join himself to the little band of total abstainers, and Thomas
had pretty nearly made up his mind to do so.  He had hesitated, not so much because he dreaded
the sneers and jeers of his companions--he had become callous to those-- but he shrank from
encountering the daily, wearing, gnawing trial of his wife's taunts and reproaches; for the
restless uneasiness of a conscience not yet quite seared into utter insensibility made the
unhappy woman doubly bitter in her attacks upon abstinence and abstainers.  And thus matters
were when February opened.

It was on a clear frosty evening in the beginning of that month that Betty was returning from
the mill.  They were running short time that week, and she was coming home about an hour earlier
than usual.  The ground was hard and crisp, and the setting sun sank a misty red, while a greyish-yellow
tint overspread the whole horizon.  Betty toiled slowly and listlessly up the hill, the old
weight still on her heart.  She had nearly reached her home, when a sound fearfully loud and
awful, like the discharge of the cannon of two conflicting armies underground in one vast but
muffled roar, made her heart almost stand still with terror. The next instant a huge body of
sulphurous smoke leaped high into the air from one of the pit-mouths.  In a moment the dreadful
cry arose, "The pit's fired!"

The next minute men, women, and children poured out from houses and cottages, horror and dismay
on every face.  Near two hundred men and boys were down that pit; scarce a house but had one
or more below.  Oh, who could adequately describe the dreadful scene of misery, wailing; and
confusion which followed!

Betty knew that her father was down, and she felt that in him all she had to cling to on earth
was now, perhaps, torn from her for ever.  Men and women rushed past her towards the pit's mouth.

"Lord help us," groaned one poor mother; "our Thomas and Matthew's down."

"Fayther's there too," wailed Betty.  "Oh, the Lord keep him, and bring him up safe."

"Where's our Bill?--oh, have you seen anything of our Bill?" shrieked another poor distracted
mother.

Then came crowds of men, with overlookers and policemen.  Then a hasty consultation was held
as to what must be done.

"Who'll volunteer to go down with me and send the poor fellows up?" cries the overlooker. 
Three men come forward, and step with him into the tub; not a word do they say, but they look
quite calm and self- possessed--they have a work to do, and they will do it.  And now the women
are clustered round on the pit-bank in haggard expectation, the very picture of woe, some wild
in their cries, others rocking themselves to and fro to still, if it may be, their misery;
and others bowed down to the earth, the very image of mute despair.  And now the wheels rapidly
revolve, the rope runs swiftly, at last it slackens speed.  The tub reaches the top--two ghastly
forms are lifted from it--the women, with straining eyes, pressing forward to look.  Oh, what
a sight! the fiery stream has scorched the faces and limbs of the poor men almost out of knowledge.
Again the tub descends, again other sufferers are raised, and still the same sad work continues
hour after hour, far into the night.  Some of those brought up are quite dead, poor blackened
corpses; others still live, and are borne home, moaning piteously.  From the limbs of many
the skin peels with a touch.  Some, less terribly injured, run and leap like madmen when they
reach the open fresh air; some come up utterly blinded.  And oh, what a vale of tears is that
village of Langhurst the livelong night!  Some call in vain for fathers, husbands, brothers;
they have not yet been found.  Some wring their hands over bodies which can never live again
till the resurrection morning; some lovingly tend those who lie racked with agony on their
beds, every limb writhing with fiery anguish; while some poor victims are so scorched and blackened
that none can be found to claim them--one can only be known by his watch-chain, so completely
is he burnt out of all remembrance.  And what of poor Johnson?  Hour after hour Betty and her
mother watched near the pit's mouth, sick with sorrow and suspense, pressing forward as each
fresh tub-load landed its miserable burden, still to be disappointed; while the wailings, the
cries, the tears of those who claimed the dead, the dying, the scorched, on every fresh arrival,
only added fuel to their burning grief.  At last, about midnight, three men were brought up
and laid on the bank, all apparently lifeless.

"Oh, there's fayther!"

"Oh, there's Thomas!" burst from the lips of Betty and her mother.

"Oh, take him home, take him home, live or dead," entreated Betty.

He was placed accordingly on a shutter, and carried by four men to his home.  There they laid
the body down on the couch, and left it alone with the mother and daughter.  Alice wrung her
hands in the bitterest distress.

"Oh, he's dead, he's dead; he'll never speak to us any more."

"Mother, hush!" said Betty, softly; "he's not dead, I can see his lips move and his breast
heave.  Maybe the Lord'll be merciful to us, and spare him.  O Father in heaven," she cried,
throwing herself on her knees, "do hear us, and spare poor fayther, for Jesus' sake."

The sufferer uttered a deep groan.

"Ay, ay, Betty," cried her mother, "the Lord be praised, there's life in him yet.  Run to old
Jenny's, and ask her to come and help us.  Her master's all right; she'll be glad to give a
helping hand to a neighbour in trouble."

But there was no need to send for assistance, for in a minute after, the cottage was filled
with women, eager to use both hands and tongues in the sufferer's service.  They carried him
to his bed, and gently removed his clothes from him, though not without great difficulty, for
he was fearfully burnt; and the act of taking off his clothing caused him great agony, as the
skin came away with some of his inner garments.  At last he was made as comfortable as was
possible under the circumstances, till the doctor should come and dress his burns.  Betty sat
watching him, while her mother and the other women gathered round the fire below, with their
pipes and their drink, trying to drown sorrow.  She, poor girl, knew where to seek a better
consolation; she sought, and found it.  At last her mother's step was again on the stairs;
she came up unsteadily, and with flushed face approached the bed where her husband lay.  She
had a mug of spirits in her hand.

"I'll give him a drop of this," she said thickly; "it'll put life into him in no time."

"Oh, mother," cried Betty, "you mustn't do it; it's wrong, you'll be the death of him."

But Alice would not heed her.  She put some of the spirits in a spoon to the poor sufferer's
lips.  She was astonished to find him perfectly conscious, for he closed his mouth tightly,
and shook his scarred face from side to side.

"He won't have it, mother," said Betty, earnestly.

"Give me a drink of cold water," said the poor man in a low voice. Betty fetched it him.  "Ay,
that's it; I want nothing stronger."

