 He
deplored the death of Don Celso as each and every one of the most had tablanqueses estimated
their garments, and wept as a friend, but it hurt, over and above all by age and he had the
old and rooted in their intimacy with which it was. In similar heights, every friend of those
that leave, is a foundation stone to start the foundation of life that remains, and Don Pedro
Nolasco had not taken seriously until that day, the death of his friend, who by nature and always
felt belt "incapable" of dying. Also hurt in the soul and separation, not farewell, but had no courage
to attempt it, and we kept us very well to encourage them to overcome their resistance: on the contrary,
I kept them in them painted as very legitimate, and to those who encomendábamos regular in
the kitchen with him the charitable work of entertain and encourage you, as we often did the
doctor and I with Mari-Pepa and Lituca, not lost sight of him and were unaware the importance
of this exceptional crisis, to an age and a temperament like yours.

Precisely this deal had been reached in the Hall, when they opened the locked door earlier by the
cure and it came with surplice and stole, asking for the altar boy who had come with him and
had to walk through the kitchen. Facia ran and went to tell the other patient's room, on the
edge because of the agony and his eyes fixed on a crucifix placed by the priest for that at
the foot of the bed. The boy came, and with your help, Don Sabas administered extreme unction
to the dying. She cried and sobbed Mari Pepa Lituca while placed over him all the medals and
relics that had been at home with leniency meeting for the hour of death, tears silent many who had
come from the kitchen with the acolyte, prayed all responding to the prayers of the priest,
and at intervals silence could be heard while breathing agonizing death rattle and hectic, and the
buzz the time between the thickets and ravines of the mountains. This act was followed by another
impressive it was not least: the recommendation of the soul, read out by Don Sabas clamorous,
with subsequent prayers that all we took part. And this was long, long since reached to be measured
by hours, with some short breaks during which they moved or were renewed Many of the crowd, walking
on tiptoe and devouring sighs and sobs, and again heard in the rhythmic rattle of the dying, and
outside the lowing of the gales.

For the funeral colorful box, about the slow pace in its development, by the very excess of the
care with which I followed, the vision of death with all its attendant sorrows dominion over
me in such art, that rather than feel and esteem in the region of ideas, I seemed to smell
and taste, confused and moral feelings with losses of body and color and shapes and sounds of falling
to blows sad picture of my brain and contundían him and wearied me. The instinct of life excited
me from time to time to breathe another environment, to look at another light and renew the
spirit in other healthier horizons than those, and walking through the narrow view of the recess
funeral terms, just always stop in the face of Lituca, where the more you recorded grooves their
tears, put more emphasis on the freshness of his youth. And it was very noticeable that no
my eyes were such a trip, without meeting with his family on the road. Would the poor subjugated
by their own influences and seek, by instinct as well, the same holds me? It is very possible, because
for them both was equally distressing and heartbreaking and new (for me least) the spectacle.
Again, yes, because I kept the memories and keep in the memory of the passage from death for
my home, there was nothing resembling the procedures or details or accessories to that slow,
cruel and relentless work of destruction; to that of a man finishing fiber to fiber, in the shadows
of a dilapidated mansion and stuffed into a crack in the Cantabrian Mountains, and the dim light
of two velucas wax, while the blizzard roared and roared in the dark solitude of the surroundings.

But
Lituca, kneeling and praying, like her mother, turned quickly to stare at the crucifix, as
the thirsty traveler lips to the spout of a fountain, well chilled
and strengthened his spirit in every weakness that caused him incessant
battle to the death take a life which was also smiling and youthful
like yours.

He kept me from go to the same source as her demand for the same breath, but delved more the roots
of life, my weathered nature of the weather in the world, in the body sweet and virginal creature,
and so were not the same in both fruit the same moral effort.

Suddenly there was a phenomenon in the agony of the patient. He opened his eyes, stared at the
crucifix and moved his hands towards him. Don Sabas understood him, he placed among them, acercóle
himself to his lips, he embraced the cross, and with this and a very deep sigh, turned to God
the soul.

Strange coincidence! The indescribable sound of the last breath of my uncle said at once from
the church the first tolling of the bells that toll for the dead for him. Another "miracle" that
never wanted to be explained by the informal Facia intervention of
some ill-informed Tertullian in the kitchen, in the endless night
that there was communication between it and the people, however hard
and even dangerous to the storm.

With the sad denouement of the whole day, unsafe levees that had kept the poor servant quietly devouring
the bitterness of his grief, collapsed suddenly, and left in torrents of tears and groans. Seemed
to be no, in the human, console her or forces capable to boot from
the edge of the bed, where he kissed her hands stiff "of his Mr ',
and put God to witness how bad life had paid benefits owed.

And it happened what was to be feared: the sound of this explosion of deep pain senses, it was
spreading throughout the house, which eventually also mourn loudly even those who had not thought
mourn in any way, and the bonds of discipline and human respect, very relaxed and during the
agony of the patriarch, had just broken with this huge and mournful uproar: people invaded the
mortuary room in droves sprang from all the sinuses of the mansion, and all wanted to see the
dead, and all you could see the out, and all wept and wailed after the most recent horror of seeing
him.

I did not know, as, for where I walked, where or how his head. Fortunately, Neluco Don Sabas
and took over the direction of everything and began to clear the room and nearby, put the ladies
in my care, and Pito Salces Chisco and their orders in the Hall, and stayed after closed-door
alone with the dead ... And this is where starts the real tangle
of rough, single-note color, strange profiles dark spots, which I
keep in memory and print the picture of that unforgettable night.

I believe that, with the intention of seeing the giant Castañalera primarily went to the kitchen,
which people could not, that begged the "surplus" to retire to their homes because, unfortunately,
were not needed there good services, and until I got much of what I wanted, I remember that
I found Mari-Pepa and her daughter by convincing the big man that
things had stopped at what they had to stop because there was no way
for them, and that, as there was no remedy what happened and he was
well dined and good company, very convenient Eral to relax and soothe
the thoughts, lie in bed that he had prepared and well away from the
noise of otherness, that did not cost great job convincing, that was
left to drive to a nearby bedroom, he slept, that we made the gathering
until he fell into sleep, and slept like a log and will we snore.

Then ... What was I ...? my uncle's room, the bed, naked and luxury in the heart, and above it
the sharp and yellow body, shrouded in a Franciscan habit, because from the time of the secularization
never missed collecting them in the house to trance like that; around the bed, burning torches,
to the head, Don Sabas, or Mari Pepa, or Facia, or any tablanqués of the kitchen ... or I,
kneeling and praying, and Pito Salces Chisco the care of the lights Neluco spraying floors,
furniture and clothes and rugs with a liquid disinfectant, and the open window a cold air
sneaking and subtle, and the buzz Far from the storm and more than a snowflake ... Lita and
her mother in my office, huddled in scarves and shawls, with their feet on the hearth box
... Mari Pepa tiptoed and peering into the bedroom of his father
when he ceased his stentorian snoring, my subject, and mechanically,
to advise the ladies and the Priest to lie down and sleep and rest;
resistance of all to please me, though poor Lituca cold shiver sometimes
and could not lift the eyelids red ... Have dinner ... They had taken
them a TENTE foot, and as Don Sabas, how he had to think about it
being more than the average night and having to celebrate the dawn?

... In the kitchen, the fire dying, nodding Tona about her, her mother wailing softly in the
dark corner, men with head on the hands and the hands on the lazy, sleeping peacefully, others
to fall asleep, sitting on the banks of the fire, smoking his pipe and with dull eyes fixed on brands:
around this table within half-light and no other noise than the sob Facia ... A lump that another
dark wandering through passageways, and a smell throughout the house to wick of wax, rosemary and
laurel trampled snuff and the worst ... A little bit of conversation with the Neluco cure
and in my room in front of Mari Pepa, who had just arrived from the bedroom his father, and Lita,
who slept with her gorgeous head over his chest after refusing to rest in my own bed, which
was so close at hand, who knows what the lineage of scruples; of discussion, say, on the day or days
and the ceremonial of the funeral and how to these individuals was related ... Pepazo and
other mozallón, entering the mortuary room to relieve Salces Chisco and Pete, the TARUMBA praying
to one side and Toper to another, the header, the cold raging there, and the flame of the candles
swaying endlessly in their fuses with the icy air was seeping through the open window ...
Long periods of silence and stillness in the house, others of languid conversation in my office
on family issues: the late, absent ... Return to Don Sabas the fourth mortuary, or Neluco back to the
kitchen, where, in one of them, pouring to find Tona Pito Salces a traguete as authorized by
"the house" for such uses as exceptional set, and from my office, and at the end and dessert, Lita
lying on my bed and covered, kneeling down, with my own blanket, and sleeping with sweet and
calm pace that sleep an angel if angels feel this need of flesh and bone. Her mother had vanished
scruples once, carrying with it, between earnest and jest, by all reasoning and put it where
it was. And I still apologized for the innocent woman so bold!

And all this, I do not remember feeling or hunger or cold, or thirsty, or tired all night, and I
go through the lie the slightest idea of ​​what I had gray women held in the morning, and yet,
I weighed the eyes as when you want to sleep, and scalded his mouth and stomach, faint, broken
body and the head packed ideas of all sorts of sad. It was my status as a feverish nightmares.

At
dawn, a Mass of the soul. Who? Everyone wanted to go to hear, but do not consent to many who
were needed at home, and particularly to Mari Pepa, which would have been very bad for joining
us. Not snowed since, but had more than a yard of snow on the ground of Valley and were the tops
of mountains and immersed in a sea of ​​blackened and stormy not augur good thing. Resignóse
to remain pious and excellent woman, but not Facia, more seasoned her to cross obstacles such
lineage.

How cold so intense, sovereign God, as I was away from home! And what's hundírseme at the feet moist
and fluffy! Many slips and falls on stony ground, and how I would have laughed at the sad figure
he was doing myself among those people walking on the unsafe carpet just as firmly that on the astragalus
of their homes, if the ideas of I was impressed with my brain had not been so sad and funeral!
And the silhouette Priest's walking ahead of everyone with its black
greatcoat, with its black face mask wound the neck, which seemed big
on the dazzling whiteness of the snow!

And what a feast and eloquently so afraid of the silence of nature! And what sound so weak,
so exhausted and melancholy of the bells of the parish died doubling steadily since had dawned!

Chock-filled
the church: all the people had gone there. The Mass was prayed and brief, and reproduced in
it the cries of the house to ask for a prayer for the Cure the soul of a beloved parishioner.

After Mass I wanted to see the cemetery, which is two steps from the church. Four walls not
very high, a cross in the center, a humble tejavana to the right of the door, and the opposite
side of half a dozen weeping willows with their trunks demarcating a bit hunchbacked ground,
and rubbing the tips of its branches straight and dull the thick carpet of snow to flush the
entire surface of the cemetery. In that piece of land, bounded by willows, from time immemorial
are buried the dead from the house of Tablanca.

I rise to take it to people who had accompanied me on the descent and some Moreover, he said
goodbye to me the cure "until the afternoon."

- It's time - he said - that I take a look at my jacienda, which know no hint twenty-four hours
please ... and I eat breakfast and sleep for a while, if I cellerisca black heart leaves appetite
and calm to it, by God's mercy.

Someone had the happy idea of ​​sending in the big house to the Canberra EXPAL the stony ground
in my honor, and that I had that in climbing up was not what I feared,
recalling what had been the downhill.

Marmitón had slept all night in a row, which had come into equilibrium
and game pieces and gears of the colossus armor, and in this way worked
in it, to grief, with perfect regularity.

I came when her daughter and granddaughter served him breakfast, and I spoke of "the misery of
the poor Celso" as if he had then to occur. Lita asked (and I swear that I asked without a hint
of ulterior motive) if he had slept and rested as you like, and instead of answering the question,
he was very red and began to unload on all the responsibilities her mother had gone to bed,
"Dressed, yes" in the bed where I had seen. Reíase this mother of all earnest, while securing
the shameful I had been my fault, "and proud," and of I took this
basis, to demonstrate the projects that he had, not to think of returning
home in a few days, not being the time for it, and, above all, need
them in I mine for a great charity, and resign themselves to accommodate
the two in my cabinet and released by Lituca.

I sleep in the bedroom of the adjoining room, which had its corresponding bed with her and four gadgets
that are added to my room, I would like a prince ... God help the
repairs and the regard and astonishment that suddenly refused to please
me! not what to stay home some days, but what to fill the cabinet
offered I ... Until finally gave Mari Pepa, resignóse Lita, and applauded
the agreement with the giant an 'that's right!

"that echoed half a house. And this and the chores that brought him to be implemented prior to before,
were the only amusements for me at all that sad day.

Evening came, cold, foggy and gloomy; up the neighborhood en masse, rocky top, behind del Cura with
black ornaments, preceded by the banner of "Souls" and a crucifix great, echoed in the astragalus,
sung by voices well-matched with the sound of Don Sabas, terrible
lamentations of Job, the greatest poet funeral that no news in the
land; low the coffin between new cries and moans, and walking, walking
with him to the people the mournful procession the path he had walked
up just before we arrived at camp saint after a brief detention at
the door of the church, the faithful and obedient son received from
his mother's loving farewell blessing.

And there, among the withered weeping, in a miserable pit just opened on the ground, disappeared
the world forever under a layer of earth that would soon cover the snow, a man which had until
that day the patriarch, the master, the undisputed and indisputable king throughout the valley.

XXIX

Many
years ago the mansion of the Ruiz de Bejos not seen another like it. Facia was clean and was
not Tona untidy, but as they cleaned and swept on it ordinary, which was cleaned, fregoteó and
buff in those days with their fists or under the direction of my incomparable hostess, had a huge
distance. Everything seemed little to erase the ravages of the recent uproar and bewilderment
and "dress" the house the tenor of what he asked for the extraordinary event that is awaited,
all disorganized in she ordered again, and everything was like new, particularly the room
of my uncle ... Remember much walking in the task of "disfigure" the disorder of his unfurnished,
Lituca said, without turning his head toward me and toward his mother who helped her, or stop for
a moment his work:

- Well, with the permission of Nah, you, Mr. Marcelo, I say this that if this were my business,
do not touch I rather than asealu.

- Why? - Ask with curiosity.

- Because - responded to the point - to hide from the sight of one or move things who in life
used the dead, Paez soon forget them ... I and Creole.

But her mother called it "parleteruca without substance" and took it out there for other occupations
of urgency, which I could not tell her what she thought in support your opinion, considering
even the guilt that I was the one scrambling, and above all, to put it to the poor face like
a poppy with a reprimand, although are released in jest.

If forget Lituca understand but feel deeply, understand very well, because the heart human, earth
miserable in the end, needs the assistance of the ways to keep warm of feelings that encourage you,
and yet the fire off with time, but by forgetting meant to erase from memory, is greatly mistaken
in that case.

Was considerable the void that left my uncle in the big house Celso
Tablanca not to be noticed at every moment however much time you spend
outside.

For starters, there was talk of something else, and most notably the night in the salons of the
kitchen, which was crowded with people despite the cold and the blizzard. He brought to mind
every moment, and nobody, including the giant the Castañalera, touched his chair, which was
seen as sacred. I could only sit in without desecrating it, and I just sat, in exercising this
right while satisfied a duty, in the opinion of those rustic than I had sworn in their hearts,
obedience and loyalty, when my uncle, and dying, "I raised on the shield" on the verge of
bed and in front of the consecrated Host. "The king is dead. Long live the king! "If it is permissible
to use examples insignificant matters considerable, as someone said in Latin, was not without some
of it on what had happened to me then to me, and I still was going
on in the coming days.

And do not say much for the respect and commitment that they showed me the honest tablanqueses
since the death of my uncle, for what I felt to deepen and expand
and thicken in my scrupulous conscience the roots of my renewed commitment
and set that way so solemn.

Those gatherings were cooking a relentless celebration of the merits
of the deceased, at all ages and circumstances of his long life: no
one was missing something to remember or refer or comment.

"Aqueya oju view I read in the darkness"; "saying the agudu his word ";" the very hand that was
everywhere to overcome impossible, for the sake of that neighborhood ", this very generous
gesture, he said so in time, the softness of his heart, always open to the misfortunes of
others, like her inexhaustible purse, his knowledge of all, his having something for everyone,
and live with anything hard as his belt, his attachment to home turf;
their heroic man, his achievements as a boy, all the graces of his
person, the direction his marriage and his wife's rosy, being very
noticeable that in these paintings of things youth of my Uncle Celso,
always came hurrying Don Pedro Nolasco or Don Sabas the Cure to confirm,
if not to enrich them with new and very curious book, with the authority
unimpeachable witnesses.

A day for those few, following the funeral of my uncle, called Facia aside to Tona Chisco and to
read testamentary clauses concerning them. Mandela sit, not wanted, and the tone is more solemn
than I could read them.
 They saw the scene and many of
the main towns, filled with one and the other actors ostentatiously dressed ladies and gentlemen
and very decorated. Lituca know already, my advice, find the perspective of looking at those
pictures made by the funnel with one hand, and looking so that Inside, was amazed and cried most
extreme exclamations. I knew this theater and the drama, and had seen my taste the reality
of the painting that both he enthused. Declaréselo, asombróse of me as the picture, and I hastened
to refer the the argument that well remembered details of its climactic scenes and scenery more
cumbersome, and, finally, I gave an idea of ​​the role they did in the role of spectators, Ladies'
Luxury ... and the follies of men presumed, particularly the "good boys." Admiróse her a few things,
she laughed and I said other, finally responding to my question, to see everything without being
seen by anyone as you like, but be in it and be visible to all, although the reel. She remembered
having said something, time did (and it was true). Taking walk from here, I continued exploring
the quality and size ambitions of women, and from painting to painting and of course in course,
I ended up at that in response to another question of mine, told me:

- Well in all truth of my soul, and God will punish me if I lie, as
desires, women's own desires that girl, come on, what I would call,
made to order, concerning this particular, is a life like I have now.

To which I replied to ask this, but recently, it was impossible to
ask, and had to wear, to the point we were trying, in the reality
of things.

- Time does not stop - I added - and destroy little by
little, that lives in it.

Under this precondition, one day (and God far away) that until your mother disappears from the
living. This is the fatal law of human events.

In anticipation of it, or because they send another law that governs the impulses of the human
heart ... and of women at some stage of life, for example, which do you now want a support
to those who get close, a company in which to live, to replace those who will fail us necessarily,
the spark that morning stoke the fire to be extinguished at home and restore sacred warmth.
In a word, Lita: you have to think, to think even in marriage. Well say, and you will pardon
the frankness that it is raining you and that you pretenders of many conditions and many parts,
that is the humble farmer's tribute their poverty excused with the wrapper of his honest intentions,
that sought hidalguete of leak, the kind with the blanket so tight resources to their needs,
if you pull on it to cover his neck, left foot bare, and rugged rancher that cover most vanity sweating
heavily the bread offered to you calloused hand clumsy word ... and sweating, and the little
lawyer a few lawsuits and the blanket the hidalguete, and so, by this scale up, until the character
that brings in the world where he comes from, with all the temptations of luxury and splendor,
come on with life make the most haughty matrons of the theater that you just see it painted in
that book. Frankly, Lita, which of these claimants would you choose?

During the first part of this, my reasoning, the poor girl did not know where to put the view,
and even pinched some clothes, then and looked at me with wide eyes and smiling mouth, and only
answer to the question that started as a line to add, under the list of alleged suitors, gave
a laugh of the most spontaneous and heartfelt.

- What are you laughing? - Ask, pretending to be a bit resentful.
 There's eight or ten cats lying around on the floor now, not even moving. It is true that recently, we have entered a fierce morality, a chaste flushing, which
condemns everything and everything is uplifted. Critics and moralists have raised a crusade
against the buffs. But the buffs will prevail, despite all the lectures moral fulminate against them.
Same thing will happen to the bulls. You can even argue that the buffs are more invincible.
The reasons adduced against them are infinitely less justified.

Sublime spectacle, no doubt, is to see a handsome boy, with no defense or floating shield red veil,
wearing silk, dressed to party or dance that fierce and terrible struggle, stand in front of angry
and powerful beast, calling himself and kill him early, falling on it with the sharp steel.
If, unfortunately, regardless of the bullfighter who at that moment died, his death, if not
moral, will not some beautiful, and pity and terror who causes the beauty will be purified
according to the rules of tragedy, written by the great Greek philosopher. The downside is that to
reach this moment of death we to witness before the brutal, long and harsh punishment of the
noble animal destined to die, we to do your skin riddled with spikes and hooks, which are hanging,
if they are not torn túrdigas with the skin, and we must also address the foul cruelty that are
treated the unhappy nags. They provide a fun and rattling seizures the agony on the sand shed
their blood and guts, are pressed to walk the caul and the loose bowels, and walk, however, by
dint of espolazos the chopper and under shaking the sticks in their emaciated backs a fierce
porter, who ignoble and grotesquely giving is behind this beating, in order to increase the pain
and take a rest from pain momentum and energy in a being moribund, if not thought, and nerves feel
like us. With such scenes should not be so hard heart that piety is not moved, or subject of
artistic taste and elegance of manners some who do not repugnant so rude and villains, or
bronze stomach did not feel the full effects of dizziness.

In short: the bull's death is beautiful, if the killer is no more
overshoot and give two or three lunges, but frankly (I mean honestly,
I am not fond sentimentality or reciter) above is abominable anywhere
you look.

Again, despite all the bulls continue.

Ourselves we dare not ask be lifted, because there is in them something of poetic and national,
to please ourselves. We will be content with some changes, if possible. We almost die happy if no horses
of such a disastrous and ugly death.

As for the buffs, which, as stated, are today more enemies than the bulls, or reform or anything
we ask. We seem fine as they are. Most do not understand the cause of censorship of them is
made.

First, the buffs are buffs, and are not the sermon or the Jubilee. The mother who yearns preserve
the treasure of candor that is in the soul of his daughter, and to accrue, take any of the
many churches that contains Madrid, and not take to hear the operettas. Go only for buffs, if
they are ill, men cured of fear, and those women not missing, tanned and in every kind of mischief,
or they are so innocent, that if any evil come to hear, not understand.

"

Moreover, I venture to assert that in the most shameless comic zarzuela there is no fifth of the
spring or green jokes in many comedies of Tirso, that many sketches
of Don Ramón de la Cruz and many other dramatic productions of our
great classical theater.

The main reason for the censure of the buffs come from an interesting hobby, from few years ago,
has seized more judgmental minds. The buffs came Paris, in the buffs often danced the cancan, the
buffs like in France, France has been defeated by Germany in the last war, then the buffs,
enervated and corrupting the nation, have taken the blame for the defeat. This has been said and in
all shades, and on this profound dissertations have been written. No one, however, has it occurred
to state that in Germany the buffs like them even more than in France than in Germany pirra
men for cancer, and that those who have beaten the French did not
come out with a discipline-spanking, but to watch the cancan dance
or dance when the beat.

As for the buffs to corrupt corrupt or pull literary taste even more unfounded accusation. Why,
do music, good or bad, is incompatible with the discretion with common sense, to wit, grace
urban and other requirements and qualities that is or could be trimmed a dramatic story? If
any dramatic fable, of these light or farcical merry, no such pledges, cúlpese uniquely the
author and his work, and not all gender and all the authors. Are you over the audience whistling?
And if public does not whistle, but the cheers, and the zarzuela
is silly, this will prove the goodness of public.

Give her something less silly and applaud more.

And when not given something less silly, critics believe that is because there is no less silly.
If it had, it would.

What you just said seems a truism, but Ponder well and it will not is. The author of operettas is
always a playwright. If you write bad operettas, dramas worst written. The critic's speech condemning the
zarzuela, stripped of fussy, is this: "You are stupid and vulgar
zarzuela: write dramas and operettas not write."

To which modestly the author could answer: "If writing operettas, which are easier and have
fewer claims, I do bad, what will I do if I start writing plays? "

The zarzuela also is one thing, and another is a good drama or a good
comedy, and not objects which are written zarzuelas to come to light
new and whales to write Lopes magnificent dramas.

I think I'm going too far with my digression. Returning to the issue I address here.

I said that in summer, although Madrid are the most elegant, Madrid is quite lively and fun.

The center of the animation, the main charm of Madrid in the summer, is in the Gardens Buen Retiro,
from 9:00 to 12:00.

The story we will refer began there, just four years ago today, on August 9, 1873.

II

It was big night for entry. There were almost all young journalists, employees and poets; corny
much is in Madrid, that is, all the ladies and girls of very little money aspire to be noticed
or known in good society, or say to yourself in the company more money, no matter how bad, and
many honorable families of the middle class, no other aspirations
than to suck the fresh air and a bit distracted listening to the music,
the quiff or courtesans of all grades and categories, so to have met
with holders of a quarter when entering, many notable politicians
of the fifteen or twenty parties in Spain, a hundred generals, not
a few congressmen, senators and ministers, and, Finally, that part
of the beau monde had not yet come for the summer, promising to leave,
or that he was so sure of your credit wealthy, who feared going to
compromise on Madrid one summer.

All this public, or sat on benches and chairs, forming a circle, muttering,
politicking, flirting and falling in love, or revolved around the
kiosk, where the music played, giving round and round, even treacherous
comparison, as mules wheel.

The garden, as everyone knows, is very nice, and at night, gas-lit evenings balloon-white and
opaque glass, looks older.

That lends itself to the tree lighting and the green grass and flowers somewhat vague and
beauty. The hustle and bustle give pleasure to the upper.

Women, when not blinded by vanity or the itch to excel, are usually well-dressed. In twenty
one can say that, at best, and not much is usually entrusted the
devil for the eye and comb, where it appears in the Gardens made a
hag; but the other nineteen are as God intended, a blanket, hat other,
not few are very pretty, either way it carried.

All that, in general, could censor that night, and may even criticized in the suit women, is
along the lines. To walk to the Gardens, and although they go in car, to walk after walk, is
all that ugly and dirty white petticoat attachment dress that drags, gathering dust, lifting
and spreading in the air, and sweeping, finally, how much filth is the step. The queue is not
good but for clean walk on soft carpets, marble or burnished, lustrous, precious or and polished
wood, embedded in the form of elaborate mosaic. To walk the streets or the field, where there
is usually mud and who knows what worse, a woman of taste must without
the tail.

Some, but are less, do without now.

At night we are referring to was declaiming against the tails a little gentleman, as twenty-eight
years, newly arrived from Germany and France, and the most elegant,
bold and cheerful can imagine.

Rodeábanle, and involuntarily admired him and thank him were laughing, others five young men from
the most prim and haughty in Madrid.

Our orator had come so late is for a home business. Planned to spend in Madrid three or four
weeks at most and go to Biarritz in September.

He had the reputation of a skull, but not the skulls and exploited
victims nor executioners and operators.

Although generous, used to lend to those who call themselves friends and had taken borrowed
from loan sharks, and he knew contained when I played and lost, and
not let anyone loot their managers, and carried in memory all their
properties, income and products, and watched for everything, and when
I was with your account and reason, and without ever blinded by vanity
or affection.

This gentleman had more than 15,000 dollars a year, was unmarried, Andalusian, did not have a single
debt, and bore the title of Count of Alhedín the Alto.

I had never wanted to study or continue any race. It was, however, curious and clear; I had
read many novels and popular and entertaining of all kinds of wisdom: and with this, and the treatment
of the world, and travel for the best in Europe, had come to have a spirit quite cultivated and
understood everything, though briefly.

He hated politics. To hate newspapers. I never took one in hand but to read ads. Contemporary
public events teased him and would not learn them. Poetry was a thousand times more ancient
stories that modern, and interested falling more than Sardanapalus
Napoleon III, and the fabulous achievements of Osiris those of the
first Napoleon.

He had not wanted to decide himself whether it was realistic or Republican,
liberal or illiberal supporter of this Constitution or that.

In religion and philosophy was less lazy, but if politics was irrelevant in this another was uncertain.
In that, it mattered little if not resolved, in this, in spite of himself, not resolved.

Moreover, as I do with the practicality of his life and his conduct, Count Alhedín had a philosophy
of self, a particular doctrine, a collection of principles which
served as a guide and standard for behavior.

Réstame say that this hero, I put in the field, was of medium height, graceful, strong and
agile. Pulling the foil as few, and with a gun in his hand almost no one is ahead. Great rider
and a good hunter, he had never boasted of a bullfighter. What we did have a hobby, for two or
three years of his earliest youth, was to imitate Leotard, and with such success, flying through
the air, in the combined traps, like a witch.

It was not without however, but a nice guy, dark, beautiful eyes, dark-haired and twisted
whiskers shiny and well groomed beard.

Having lectured against queues reported a series of anecdotes that
occurred to him or to someone you know, in foreign lands where it
came from.

Some of these stories were hunting or riding, the most were of love, finding means of disseminating
their triumphs and conquests, who pretended to believe or believed
their partners, or rather, his audience Count it was of those who,
whether they speak beautifully, fatigue and offend the least suffered,
monopolizing the use of the word and not consenting, as they say,
that no goal but they trick or spoon.

Despite this monopoly is not to deny that the Count was funny in conversation. Speaking, loved
or dazzled.

Recounted how few, and with such art, which he believed history, although it was a lie, and
the audience used to believe it too.

It seems that the imagination and memory were in Count one and only faculty of the soul.

He was petulant, but smugly cute, cheerful and sweet, no one offended. Its fine Figure nice manners
and did much to produce such good effect.

That night they had taken to denigrate everything.

Reminding the Russian princess, the ladies English to German Countess, the French du Faubourg
Saint-Germain, and even the Phanariotes Greek, which was treated with the utmost privacy, it
was not worth holding a damn all women who were walking at that time in the outfield.

"Just - he said - if this whole miserable crowd can cull half dozen warrant a declaration of
love. "

Friends challenged as cruel censorship, and the Count, to defend himself,
holding his opinion grace and naturalness.

As was well disputed and
walking, he suddenly noticed that he walked in front of two women
two tiny, slim, young people apparently, but only from behind the
saw, and something had heard and continued to hear of his diatribe
and dispute, because occasionally whispering and laughed, as if their
comments to the conversation of those who came back.

Conde had not
seen the face of any of those two women. The costume of them all eye
was remarkably vulgar and profane. The one dressed in black silk light
and the other a dark suit of calico poor, the two were on their blanket.
There was, however, such neatness and toilet in the whole being and
even the environment that surrounded and enveloped those women that,
without managing the explanation, the Count seemed to feel like a
magnetic current, and got to imagine that these two women were challenging
his assertion, and that any of them considered, with good reason,
an argument alive, very strong and irresistible, against their foolish
statements. 5.)

"San Antonio revealed himself to his devout how to do it"

(p. 6).

Who asks receives

The Maria de los Dolores (Manila, 1910, pg.

5), is "to get what you want in any claim either the soul or body. "

The ninth of San Vicente Ferrer, "although it can be done at home, it will be much better in
the church because there who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, BY GOD SAYS THE SAME " (Page
5 of your Novena. Manila, 1917).

San Ramon Nonnato is "Master of the farmers and their livestock. A wonderful antidote against
fever. Universal refuge to heal all diseases and pain.

Singular Protector of women who called him on his dangerous deliveries, and the sterile, seeking
comfort of their sponsorship. "Thus says the cover of the ninth, Manila, 1918 .--" Only by invoking
your name, to worship his holy relics, and by drinking the water that passes by it, makes thousands
the Holy wonders "(p. 6).

"I said a devotee, I have so much faith and experience in San Ramon, who I respect for their environment
asked God has given me everything, and for the truth, I swear and sign the above. "(IX, pg. 15.)

A
great virtue persuasive way to earn God's will and make it what you
want, is praying the Trisagion. It seems that during a period of great
upheaval geological and meteorological conditions experienced in Constantinople
in the year 447, occurred (Trisagion seraphic, Manila, 1889, pg. 7)
that "a child of tender years was carried by the air being eyewitnesses
all campers, out of sight. After a long period, returned to earth
just as he had ascended to heaven, spoke in the presence of the Patriarch
the Emperor, all the wondering multitude, who had heard the angels
sing this concert: Holy God, Holy Mighty, Holy Immortal, have mercy
on us. " 

The presentation is the most right to know and treat people, but the Count did not feel the
shameless enough to be presented there.

Would you write a love note to enter into relationships?

Letters of this kind, use, usefulness, disadvantages and advantages,
the Count, who, according to we have said, was very circumspect and
tidy, had made its laws and made their considerations, to which always
tried to adjust their behavior. The
marriage was the brunette. In this no doubt. Known in older, and in other evidence that together
all reached the most complete certainty. Who was married the brunette? Both were outsiders,
new to Madrid, since no one knew. It was not probably had come to Madrid to have fun, because
then the husband, farmer, rancher, merchant or something, some people in Andalusia and Seville itself,
should have accompanied and he also amuse and curiosearía.
 We do not wish a repetition of the California incident,
after all.

Transcriber's Note

