"Who will pull off my riding boots?" he asked, throwing himself into a chair, stretching out
his legs, and gazing admiringly at his new spurs. Wili and Lili sprang quickly from their seats,
delighted at the chance of doing something that was not a lesson, and each seized a foot and
began to pull with such force that before Jule knew what they were about he found himself slipping
from his chair. In the next second he had grasped the side of his chair with the result that
that also was pulled along the floor. He called out hastily "Stop! Stop!" while little Hunne,
who saw the situation from his corner, now flew to his elder brother's assistance, hung on
to the chair from behind, planting his little feet firmly on the ground, and throwing his weight
backward as well as he knew how. His efforts were insufficient, however, and he was dragged
along the floor as if he were on a coast. Wili and Lili were determined to finish their undertaking,
and kept on pulling and pulling.

    "Stop! Stop! Wiling and Liling
     You terrible twinning"

cried Jule, while little Hunne added his voice to swell the tumult.

At this the mother made her appearance upon the scene, and the uproar was stilled at once.
Jule swung himself panting back into his chair, and Hunne slowly regained his equilibrium.

"My dear Jule, why do you make the children behave so badly? You ought to know better at your
age," said his mother reprovingly.

"Certainly, mother, certainly, in future I will do better, but if you will look at it from
another side, I am doing something, in affording the twins an opportunity to be of use, instead
of carrying on their usual mischievous pranks."

"Jule, Jule, that does not look like doing better," said his mother warningly. "Lili, go down
stairs and practise your exercises until Miss Hanenwinkel has finished Paula's music lesson.
Wili, go on with your studying, and the best thing you can do, Jule, to help me, is to amuse
the little one until I am at leisure."

The "big Jule" was ready to help to restore order after his bit of fun, and Lili ran down stairs
to the piano as she was bidden.

Uncle Titus and his wife were just finishing their breakfast in a neighboring house when the
affair of the boots began. Uncle Titus hastened to his room, closing the windows and fastening
them against the noise. His wife summoned their hostess rather peremptorily, and asked her
"just to listen to that" for herself. It did not seem to make much impression upon Mrs. Kurd
however, who only said smilingly,

"Oh, how merry the dear children are, to be sure," and when Aunt Ninette went on to explain
that such disturbances were the very worst thing for her poor invalid, the hostess only again
recommended the walk in the woods for quiet and fresh air! The noise in the next house would
not last long, she said, the young gentleman would soon return to college, and it would be
much more quiet then. As she spoke, the sound of Lili's merry music came across through the
open window on the morning breeze.

"And that too, is that the work of the young gentleman, who will soon return to college?" asked
Mrs. Ehrenreich excitedly. "It is unendurable; continually some new noise or tumult or uproar.
What do you say to this last, Mrs. Kurd?"

"I never have thought of it as noise," said the good woman simply, "the dear child is making
such progress with her music, it is a pleasure to hear her."

"And Dora, where can Dora be? Is she bewitched too? It is time for her to begin her sewing;
where can she be? Dora! Dora! Have you gone into the garden again?"

