David did say vaguely to Letty when he was leaving, that he hoped "they would be good," the
screams that rent the air at the precise moment of farewell rather giving the lie to his hopes.

Letty was struggling to end the interview without breaking down, for she was worn out nervously
as well as physically, and thought if she could only be alone with her problems and her cares
she would rather write to David than tell him her mind face to face.

Brother and sister held each other tightly for a moment, kissed each other good-bye, and then
Letty watched Osh Popham's sleigh slipping off with David into the snowy distance, the merry
tinkle of the bells adding to the sadness in her dreary heart. Dick gone yesterday, Dave to-day;
Beulah without Dick and Dave! The two joys of her life were missing and in their places two
unknown babies whose digestive systems were going to need constant watching, according to Dr.
Lee. Then she went about with set lips, doing the last sordid things that death brings in its
wake; doing them as she had seen her mother do before her. She threw away the husks in Eva's
under mattress and put fresh ones in; she emptied the feathers from the feather bed and pillows
and aired them in the sun while she washed the ticking; she scrubbed the paint in the sick-room,
and in between her tasks learned from Clarissa Perry the whole process of bringing up babies
by hand.

That was three years ago. At first David had sent ten dollars a month from his slender earnings,
never omitting it save for urgent reasons. He evidently thought of the twins as "company" for
his sister and their care a pleasant occupation, since she had "almost" a living income; taking
in a few coats to make, just to add an occasional luxury to the bare necessities of life provided
by her mother's will.

His letters were brief, dispirited, and infrequent, but they had not ceased altogether till
within the last few months, during which Letty's to him had been returned from Boston with
"Not found" scribbled on the envelopes.

The firm in whose care Letty had latterly addressed him simply wrote, in answer to her inquiries,
that Mr. Gilman had not been in their employ for some time and they had no idea of his whereabouts.

The rest was silence.

V

A good deal of water had run under Beulah Bridge since Letty Boynton had sat at her window
on a December evening unconsciously furnishing copy and illustration for a Christmas card;
yet there had been very few outward changes in the village. Winter had melted into spring,
burst into summer, faded into autumn, lapsed into winter again,--the same old, ever-recurring
pageant in the world of Nature, and the same procession of incidents in the neighborhood life.

The harvest moon and the hunter's moon had come and gone; the first frost, the family dinners
and reunions at Thanksgiving, the first snowfall; and now, as Christmas approached, the same
holiday spirit was abroad in the air, slightly modified as it passed by Mrs. Popham's mournful
visage.

One or two babies had swelled the census, giving the minister hope of a larger Sunday-School;
one or two of the very aged neighbors had passed into the beyond; and a few romantic and enterprising
young farmers had espoused wives, among them Osh Popham's son.

The manner of their choice was not entirely to the liking of the village. Digby Popham had
married into the rival church and as his betrothed was a masterful young lady it was feared
that Digby would leave Mr. Larrabee's flock to worship with his wife. Another had married without
visible means of support, a proceeding always to be regretted by thoroughly prudent persons
over fifty; and the third, Deacon Todd's eldest son, had somehow or other met a siren from
Vermont and insisted on wedding her when there were plenty of marriageable girls in Beulah.

"I've no patience with such actions!" grumbled Mrs. Popham. "Young folks are so full of notions
nowadays that they look for change and excitement everywheres. I s'pose James Todd thinks it's
a decent, respectable way of actin', to turn his back on the girls he's been brought up an'
gone to school with, and court somebody he never laid eyes on till a year ago. It's a free
country, but I must say I don't think it's very refined for a man to go clear off somewheres
and marry a perfect stranger!"

Births, marriages, and deaths, however, paled into insignificance compared with the spectacular
début of the minister's wife as a writer and embellisher of Christmas cards, two at least having
been seen at the local milliner's store. How many she had composed, and how many of them (said
Mrs. Popham) might have been rejected, nobody knew, though there was much speculation; and
more than one citizen remarked on the size of the daily package of mail matter handed out by
the rural delivery man at the parsonage gate.

No one but Mrs. Larrabee and Letty Boynton were in possession of all the thrilling details
attending the public appearance of these works of art; the words and letters of appreciation,
the commendation, and the occasional blows to pride that attended their acceptance and publication.

Mrs. Larrabee's first attempt, with the sketch of Letty at the window on Christmas Eve, her
hearth-fire aglow, her heart and her door open that Love might enter in if the Christ Child
came down the snowy street,--this went to the Excelsior Card Company in a large Western city,
and the following correspondence ensued:

     MRS. LUTHER LARRABEE,
          Beulah, N.H.

     DEAR MADAM:--

     Your letter bears a well-known postmark, for my father and
     my grandfather were born and lived in New Hampshire, "up
     Beulah way." I accept your verses because of the beauty of
     the picture that accompanied them, and because Christmas
     means more than holly and plum pudding and gift-laden trees
     to me, for I am a religious man,--a ministerial father and
     three family deacons saw to that, though it doesn't always
     work that way!--Frankly, I do not expect your card to have a
     wide appeal, so I offer you only five dollars.

     A Christmas card, my dear madam, must have a greeting, and
     yours has none. If the pictured room were a real room, and
     some one who had seen or lived in it should recognize it, it
     would attract his eye, but we cannot manufacture cards to
     meet such romantic improbabilities. I am emboldened to ask
     you (because you live in Beulah) if you will not paint the
     outside of some lonely, little New Hampshire cottage, as
     humble as you like, and make me some more verses; something,
     say, about "the folks back home."

                                         Sincerely yours,
                                            REUBEN SMALL.

                                                    BEULAH, N.H.

     DEAR MR. SMALL:--

     I accept your offer of five dollars for my maiden effort in
     Christmas cards with thanks, and will try my hand at
     something more popular. I am not above liking to make a
     "wide appeal," but the subject you propose is rather a
     staggering one, because you accompany it with a phrase
     lacking rhythm, and difficult to rhyme. You will at once
     see, by running through the alphabet, that "roam" is the
     only serviceable rhyme for "home," but the union of the
     two suggests jingle or doggerel. I defy any minor poet when
     furnished with such a phrase, to refrain from bursting at
     once into:--

     No matter where you travel, no matter where you roam,
     You'll never dum-di-dum-di-dee
         The folks back home.

                                         Sincerely yours,
                                            REBA LARRABEE.

     P.S. On second thought I believe James Whitcomb Riley could
     do it and overcome the difficulties, but alas! I have not
     his touch!

     DEAR MRS. LARRABEE:--

     We never refuse verses because they are too good for the
     public. Nothing is too good for the public, but the public
     must be the judge of what pleases it.

     "The folks back home" is a phrase that will strike the eye
     and ear of thousands of wandering sons and daughters. They
     will choose that card from the heaped-up masses on the
     counters and send it to every State in the Union. If you
     will glance at your first card you will see that though
     people may read it they will always leave it on the counter.
     I want my cards on counters, by the thousand, but I don't
     intend that they should be left there!

     Make an effort, dear Mrs. Larrabee! I could get "the folks
     back home" done here in the office in half an hour, but I'm
     giving you the chance because you live in Beulah, New
     Hampshire, and because you make beautiful pictures.

                                         Sincerely yours,
                                            REUBEN SMALL.

     DEAR MR. SMALL:--

     I enclose a colored sketch of the outside of the cottage
     whose living-room I used in my first card. I chose it
     because I love the person who lives in it; because it always
     looks beautiful in the snow, and because the tree is so
     picturesque. The fact that it is gray for lack of paint may
     remind a casual wanderer that there is something to do, now
     and then, for the "folks back home." The verse is just as
     bad as I thought it would be. It seems incredible that any
     one should buy it, but ours is a big country and there are
     many kinds of people living in it, so who knows? Why don't
     you accept my picture and then you write the card? I could
     not put my initials on this! They are unknown, to be sure,
     and I should want them to be, if you use it!

                                         Sincerely yours,
                                            REBA LARRABEE.

         Now here's a Christmas greeting
           To the "folks back home."
         It comes to you across the space,
           Dear folks back home!
         I've searched the wide world over,
           But no matter where I roam,
         No friends are like the old friends,
           No folks like those back home!

     DEAR MRS. LARRABEE:--

     I gave you five dollars for the first picture and verses,
     which you, as a writer, regard more highly than I, who am
     merely a manufacturer. Please accept twenty dollars for "The
     Folks Back Home," on which I hope to make up my loss on the
     first card! I insist on signing the despised verse with your
     initials. In case R. L. should later come to mean
     something, you will be glad that a few thousand people have
     seen it.

                                         Sincerely,
                                            REUBEN SMALL.

