He was pleased, moreover, to feel a new respect for Uncle Peter. He observed that men of all
degrees looked up to him, sought and relied upon his judgment; the investing capitalist whom
they met not less than the mine foreman; the made man and the labourer. In the drawing-room
at home he had felt so agreeably superior to the old man; now he felt his own inferiority in
a new element, and began to view him with more respect. He saw him to be the shrewd man of
affairs, with a thorough grasp of detail in every branch of their interests; and a deep man,
as well; a little narrow, perhaps, from his manner of life, but of unfailing kindness, and
with rather a young man's radicalism than an old man's conservatism; one who, in an emergency,
might be relied upon to take the unexpected but effective course.

For his own part, old Peter Bines learned in the course of the trip to understand and like
his grandson better. At bottom he decided the young man to be sound after all, and he began
to make allowance for his geographical heresies. The boy had been sent to an Eastern college;
that was clearly a mistake, putting him out of sympathy with the West; and he had never been
made to work, which was another and a graver mistake, "but he'd do more'n his father ever did
if 'twa'n't fur his father's money," the old man concluded. For he saw in their talks that
the very Eastern experience which he derided had given the young fellow a poise and a certain
readiness to grasp details in the large that his father had been a lifetime in acquiring.

For a month they loitered over the surrounding territory in the private car, gliding through
fertile valleys, over bleak passes, steaming up narrow little canons along the down-rushing
streams with their cool shallow murmurs.

They would learn one day that a cross-cut was to be started on the Last Chance, or that the
concentrates of the True Grit would thereafter be shipped to the Careless Creek smelter. Next
they would learn that a new herd of Galloways had done finely last season on the Bitter Root
ranch; that a big lot of ore was sacked at the Irish Boy, that an eighteen-inch vein had been
struck in the Old Crow; that a concentrator was needed at Hellandgone, and that rich gold-bearing
copper and sand bearing free gold had been found over on Horseback Ridge.

Another day they would drive far into a forest of spruce and hemlock to a camp where thousands
of ties were being cut and floated down to the line of the new railway.

Sometimes they spent a night in one of the smaller mining camps off the railroad, whereof facetious
notes would appear in the nearest weekly paper, such as:

"The Hon. Peter Bines and his grandson, who is a chip of the old block, spent Tuesday night
at Rock Rip. Young Bines played the deal from soda card to hock at Lem Tully's Turf Exchange,
and showed Lem's dealer good and plenty that there's no piker strain in him."

Or, it might be:

"Poker stacks continue to have a downward tendency. They were sold last week as low as eighty
chips for a dollar; It is sad to see this noble game dragging along in the lower levels of
prosperity, and we take as a favourable omen the appearance of Uncle Peter Bines and his grandson
the other night. The prices went to par in a minute. Young Bines gave signs of becoming as
delicately intuitional in the matter of concealed values as his father, the lamented Daniel J."

Again it was:

"Uncle Peter Bines reports from over Kettle Creek way that the sagebrush whiskey they take
a man's two bits for there would gnaw holes in limestone. Peter is likelier to find a ledge
of dollar bills than he is good whiskey this far off the main trail. The late Daniel J. could
have told him as much, and Daniel J.'s boy, who accompanies Uncle Peter, will know it hereafter."

The young man felt wholesomely insignificant at these and other signs that he was taken on
sufferance as a son and a grandson.

He was content that it should be so. Indeed there was little wherewith he was not content.
That he was habitually preoccupied, even when there was most movement about them, early became
apparent to Uncle Peter. That he was constantly cheerful proved the matter of his musings to
be pleasant. That he was proner than most youths to serious meditation Uncle Peter did not
believe. Therefore he attributed the moods of abstraction to some matter probably connected
with his project of removing the family East. It was not permitted Uncle Peter to know, nor
was his own youth recent enough for him to suspect, the truth. And the mystery stayed inviolate
until a day came and went that laid it bare even to the old man's eyes.

They awoke one morning to find the car on a siding at the One Girl mine. Coupled to it was
another car from an Eastern road that their train had taken on sometime in the night. Percival
noted the car with interest as he paced beside the track in the cool clear air before breakfast.
The curtains were drawn, and the only signs of life to be observed were at the kitchen end,
where the white-clad cook could be seen astir. Grant, porter on the Bines car, told him the
other car had been taken on at Kaslo Junction, and that it belonged to Rulon Shepler, the New
York financier, who was aboard with a party of friends.

As Percival and Uncle Peter left their car for the shaft-house after breakfast, the occupants
of the other car were bestirring themselves.

From one of the open windows a low but impassioned voice was exhausting the current idioms
of damnation in sweeping dispraise of all land-areas north and west of Fifty-ninth Street,
New York.

Uncle Peter smiled grimly. Percival flushed, for the hidden protestant had uttered what were
his own sentiments a month before.

Reaching the shaft-house they chatted with Pangburn, the superintendent, and then went to the
store-room to don blouses and overalls for a descent into the mine.

For an hour they stayed underground, traversing the various levels and drifts, while Pangburn
explained the later developments of the vein and showed them where the new stoping had been begun.

CHAPTER VI.

A Meeting and a Clashing

As they stepped from the cage at the surface Percival became aware of a group of strangers
between him and the open door of the shaft-house,--people displaying in dress and manner the
unmistakable stamp of New York. For part of a minute, while the pupils of his eyes were contracting
to the light, he saw them but vaguely. Then, as his sight cleared, he beheld foremost in the
group, beaming upon him with an expression of pleased and surprised recognition, the girl whose
face and voice had for nearly half a year peopled his lover's solitude with fair visions and
made its silence to be all melody.

Had the encounter been anticipated his composure would perhaps have failed him. Not a few of
his waking dreams had sketched this, their second meeting, and any one of the ways it had pleased
him to plan it would assuredly have found him nervously embarrassed. But so wildly improbable
was this reality that not the daringest of his imagined happenings had approached it. His thoughts
for the moment had been not of her; then, all at once, she stood before him in the flesh, and
he was cool, almost unmoved. He suspected at once that her father was the trim, fastidiously
dressed man who looked as if he had been abducted from a morning stroll down the avenue to
his club; that the plump, ruddy, high-bred woman, surveying the West disapprovingly through
a lorgnon, would be her mother. Shepler he knew by sight, with his big head, massive shoulders,
and curiously short, tapering body. Some other men and a woman were scanning the hoisting machinery
with superior looks.

The girl, before starting toward him, had waited hardly longer than it took him to eye the
group. And then came an awkward two seconds upon her whose tact in avoiding the awkward was
reputed to be more than common.

With her hand extended she had uttered, "Why, Mr.--" before it flashed upon her that she did
not know the name of the young man she was greeting.

The "Mister" was threatening to prolong itself into an "r" of excruciating length and disgraceful
finality, an "r" that is terminated neatly by no one but hardened hotel-clerks. Then a miner
saved the day. "Mr. Bines," he said, coming up hurriedly behind Percival with several specimens
of ore, "you forgot these."

"-r-r-r. Bines, how do you do!" concluded the girl with an eye-flash of gratitude at the humble
instrument that had prevented an undue hiatus in her salutation. They were apart from the others
and for the moment unnoticed.

The young man took the hand so cordially offered, and because of all the things he wished and
had so long waited to say, he said nothing.

"Isn't it jolly! I am Miss Milbrey," she added in a lower tone, and then, raising her voice,
"Mamma, Mr. Bines--and papa," and there followed a hurried and but half-acknowledged introduction
to the other members of the party. And, behold! in that moment the young man had schemed the
edifice of all his formless dreams. For six months he had known the unsurpassable luxury of
wanting and of knowing what he wanted. Now, all at once, he saw this to be a world in which
dreams come more than true.

Shepler and the party were to go through the mine as a matter of sight-seeing. They were putting
on outer clothes from the store-room to protect them from the dirt and damp.

Presently Percival found himself again at the bottom of the shaft. During the descent of twelve
hundred feet he had reflected upon the curious and interesting fact that her name should be
Milbrey. He felt dimly that this circumstance should be ranked among the most interesting of
natural phenomena,--that she should have a name, as the run of mortals, and that it should
be one name more than another. When he discovered further that her Christian name was Avice
the phenomenon became stupendously bewildering. They two were in the last of the party to descend.
On reaching bottom he separated her with promptness and guile from two solemn young men, copies
of each other, and they were presently alone. In the distance they could see the others following
ghostly lamps. From far off mysterious recesses came the muffled musical clink of the sledges
on the drills. An employee who had come down with them started to be their guide. Percival
sent him back.

"I've just been through; I can find my way again."

"Ver' well," said the man, "with the exception that it don't happen something,--yes?" And he
stayed where he was.

Down one of the cross-cuts they started, stepping aside to let a car of ore be pushed along
to the shaft.

"Do you know," began the girl, "I am so glad to be able to thank you for what you did that night."

"I'm glad you are able. I was beginning to think I should always have those thanks owing to me."

"I might have paid them at the time, but it was all so unexpected and so sudden,--it rattled
me, quite."

"I thought you were horribly cool-headed."

"I wasn't."

"Your manner reduced me to a groom who opened your carriage door."

"But grooms don't often pick strange ladies up bodily and bear them out of a pandemonium of
waltzing cab-horses. I'd never noticed before that cab-horses are so frivolous and hysterical."

"And grooms know where to look for their pay."

They were interrupting nervously, and bestowing furtive side-looks upon each other.

"If I'd not seen you," said the girl, "glanced at you--before--that evening, I shouldn't have
remembered so well; doubtless I'd not have recognised you to-day."

"I didn't know you did glance at me, and yet I watched you every moment of the evening. You
didn't know that, did you?"

She laughed.

"Of course I knew it. A woman has to note such things without letting it be seen that she sees."

"And I'd have sworn you never once so much as looked my way."

"Don't we do it well, though?"

"And in spite of all the time I gave to a study of your face I lost the detail of it. I could
keep only the effect of its expression and the few tones of your voice I heard. You know I
took those on a record so I could make 'em play over any time I wanted to listen. Do you know,
that has all been very sweet to me, my helping you and the memory of it,--so vague and sweet."

"Aren't you afraid we're losing the others?"

She halted and looked back.

"No; I'm afraid we won't lose them; come on; you can't turn back now. And you don't want to
hear anything about mines; it wouldn't be at all good for you, I'm sure. Quick, down this way,
or you'll hear Pangburn telling some one what a stope is, and think what a thing that would
be to carry in your head."

"Really, a stope sounds like something that would 'get you' in the night! I'm afraid!"

Half in his spirit she fled with him down a dimly lighted incline where men were working at
the rocky wall with sledge and drill. There was that in his manner which compelled her quite
as literally as when at their first meeting he had picked her up in his arms.

As they walked single-file through the narrowing of a drift, she wondered about him. He was
Western, plainly. An employee in the mine, probably a manager or director or whatever it was
they called those in authority in mines. Plainly, too, he was a man of action and a man who
engaged all her instinctive liking. Something in him at once coerced her friendliest confidence.
These were the admissions she made to herself. She divined him, moreover, to be a blend of
boldness and timidity. He was bold to the point of telling her things unconventionally, of
beguiling her into remote underground passages away from the party; yet she understood; she
knew at once that he was a determined but unspoiled gentleman; that under no provocation could
he make a mistake. In any situation of loneliness she would have felt safe with him--"as with
a brother"--she thought. Then, feeling her cheeks burn, she turned back and said:

"I must tell you he was my brother--that man--that night."

He was sorry and glad all at once. The sorrow being the lesser and more conventional emotion,
he started upon an awkward expression of it, which she interrupted.

"Never mind saying that, thank you. Tell me something about yourself, now. I really would like
to know you. What do you see and hear and do in this strange life?"

"There's not much variety," he answered, with a convincing droop of depression. "For six months
I've been seeing you and hearing you--seeing you and hearing you; not much variety in that--nothing
worth telling you about."

Despite her natural caution, intensified by training, she felt herself thrill to the very evident
sincerity of his tones, so that she had to affect mirth to seem at ease.

"Dear, dear, what painful monotony; and how many men have said it since these rocks were made;
and now you say it,--well, I admit--"

"But there's nothing new under the sun, you know."

"No; not even a new excuse for plagiarism, is there?"

"Well, you see as long as the same old thing keeps true the same old way of telling it will
be more or less depended upon. After a few hundred years of experiment, you know, they hit
on the fewest words that tell the most, and everybody uses them because no one can improve
them. Maybe the prehistoric cave-gentleman, who proposed to his loved one with a war club just
back of her left ear, had some variation of the formula suiting his simple needs, after he'd
gotten her home and brought her to and she said it was 'all so sudden;' and a man can work
in little variations of his own to-day. For example--"

"I'm sure we'd best be returning."

"For example, I could say, you know, that for keeping the mind active and the heart working
overtime the memory of you surpasses any tonic advertised in the backs of the magazines. Or,
that--"

"I think that's enough; I see you could vary the formula, in case--"

"--have varied it--but don't forget I prefer the original unvaried. After all, there are certain
things that you can't tell in too few words. Now, you--"

"You stubborn person. Really, I know all about myself. I asked you to tell me about yourself."

"And I began at once to tell you everything about myself--everything of interest--which is
yourself."

"I see your sense of values is gone, poor man. I shall question you. Now you are a miner, and
I like men of action, men who do things; I've often wondered about you, and seriously, I'm
glad to find you here doing something. I remembered you kindly, with real gratitude, indeed.
You didn't seem like a New York man either, and I decided you weren't. Honestly, I am glad
to find you here at your work in your miner's clothes. You mustn't think we forget how to value
men that work."

On the point of saying thoughtlessly, "But I'm not working here--I own the mine," he checked
himself. Instead he began a defence of the man who doesn't work, but who could if he had to.
"For example," he continued, "here we are at a place that you must be carried over; otherwise
you'd have to wade through a foot of water or go around that long way we've come. I've rubber
boots on, and so I pick you up this way--" He held her lightly on his arm and she steadied
herself with a hand between his shoulders.

"And staggering painfully under my burden, I wade out to the middle of this subterranean lake."
He stopped.

"You see, I've learned to do things. I could pick you from that slippery street and put you
in your carriage, and I can pick you up now without wasting words about it--"

"But you're wasting time--hurry, please--and, anyway, you're a miner and used to such things."

He remained standing.

"But I'm not wasting time, and I'm not a miner in the sense you mean. I own this mine, and
I suppose for the most part I'm the sort of man you seem to have gotten tired of; the man who
doesn't have to do anything. Even now I'm this close to work only because my grandfather wanted
me to look over the properties my father left."

"But, hurry, please, and set me down."

"Not until I warn you that I'm just as apt to do things as the kind of man you thought I was.
This is twice I've picked you up now. Look out for me;--next time I may not put you down at all."

She gave a low little laugh, denoting unruffled serenity. She was glorying secretly in his
strength, and she knew his boldness and timidity were still justly balanced. And there was
the rather astonishing bit of news he had just given her. That needed a lot of consideration.

With slow, sure-footed steps he reached the farther side of the water and put her on her feet.

"There, I thought I'd reveal the distressing truth about myself while I had you at my mercy."

"I might have suspected, but I gave the name no thought. Bines, to be sure. You are the son
of the Bines who died some months ago. I heard Mr. Shepler and my father talking about some
of your mining properties. Mr. Shepler thought the 'One Girl' was such a funny name for your
father to give a mine."

Now they neared the foot of the shaft where the rest of the party seemed to await them. As
they came up Percival felt himself raked by a broadside from the maternal lorgnon that left
him all but disabled. The father glowered at him and asked questions in the high key we are
apt to adopt in addressing foreigners, in the instinctive fallacy that any language can be
understood by any one if it be spoken loudly enough. The mother's manner was a crushing rebuke
to the young man for his audacity. The father's manner was meant to intimate that natives of
the region in which they were then adventuring were not worthy of rebuke, save such general
rebukes as may be conveyed by displaying one's natural superiority of manner. The other members
of the party, excepting Shepler, who talked with Pangburn at a little distance, took cue from
the Milbreys and aggressively ignored the abductor of an only daughter. They talked over, around,
and through him, as only may those mortals whom it hath pleased heaven to have born within
certain areas on Manhattan Island.

The young man felt like a social outcast until he caught a glance from Miss Milbrey. That young
woman was still friendly, which he could understand, and highly amused, which he could not
understand. While the temperature was at its lowest the first load ascended, including Miss
Milbrey and her parents, a chatty blonde, and an uncomfortable little man who, despite his
being twelve hundred feet toward the centre thereof, had three times referred bitterly to the
fact that he was "out of the world." "I shall see you soon above ground, shall I not?" Miss
Milbrey had asked, at which her mother shot Percival a parting volley from her rapid-fire lorgnon,
while her father turned upon him a back whose sidelines were really admirable, considering
his age and feeding habits. The behaviour of these people appeared to intensify the amusement
of their child. The two solemn young men who remained continued to chat before Percival as
they would have chatted before the valet of either. He began to sound the spiritual anguish
of a pariah. Also to feel truculent and, in his own phrase, "Westy." With him "Westy" meant
that you were as good as any one else "and a shade better than a whole lot if it came to a
show-down." He was not a little mortified to find how easy it was for him to fall back upon
that old cushion of provincial arrogance. It was all right for Uncle Peter, but for himself,--well,
it proved that he was less finely Eastern than he had imagined.

As the cage came down for another ascent, he let the two solemn young men go up with Shepler
and Pangburn, and went to search for Uncle Peter.

"There, thank God, is a man!" he reflected.

CHAPTER VII.

The Rapid-fire Lorgnon Is Spiked

He found Uncle Peter in the cross-cut, studying a bit of ore through a glass, and they went
back to ascend.

"Them folks," said the old man, "must be the kind that newspaper meant, that had done something
in practical achievement. I bet that girl's mother will achieve something practical with you
fur cuttin' the girl out of the bunch; she was awful tormented; talked two or three times about
the people in the humbler walks of life bein' strangely something or other. You ain't such
a humble walker now, are you, son? But say, that yellow-haired woman, she ain't a bit diffident,
is she? She's a very hearty lady, I must say!"

"But did you see Miss Milbrey?"

"Oh, that's her name is it, the one that her mother was so worried about and you? Yes, I saw
her. Peart and cunnin', but a heap too wise fur you, son; take my steer on that. Say, she'd
have your pelt nailed to the barn while you was wonderin' which way you'd jump."

"Oh, I know I'm only a tender, teething infant," the young man answered, with masterly satire.
"Well, now, as long's you got that bank roll you jest look out fur cupboard love--the kind
the old cat has when she comes rubbin' up against your leg and purrin' like you was the whole
thing."

The young man smiled, as they went up, with youth's godlike faith in its own sufficiency, albeit
he smarted from the slights put upon him.

At the surface a pleasant shock was in store for him. There stood the formidable Mrs. Milbrey
beaming upon him. Behind her was Mr. Milbrey, the pleasing model of all a city's refinements,
awaiting the boon of a hand-clasp. Behind these were the uncomfortable little man, the chatty
blonde, and the two solemn young men who had lately exhibited more manner than manners. Percival
felt they were all regarding him now with affectionate concern. They pressed forward effusively.

"So good of you, Mr. Bines, to take an interest in us--my daughter has been so anxious to see
one of these fascinating mines." "Awfully obliged, Mr. Bines." "Charmed, old man; deuced pally
of you to stay by us down in that hole, you know." "So clever of you to know where to find
the gold--"

He lost track of the speakers. Their speeches became one concerted effusion of affability that
was music to his ears.

Miss Milbrey was apart from the group. Having doffed the waterproofs, she was now pluming herself
with those fussy-looking but mysteriously potent little pats which restore the attire and mind
of women to their normal perfection and serenity. Upon her face was still the amused look Percival
had noted below.

"And, Mr. Bines, do come in with that quaint old grandfather of yours and lunch with us," urged
Mrs. Milbrey, who had, as it were, spiked her lorgnon. "Here's Mr. Shepler to second the invitation--and
then we shall chat about this very interesting West."

Miss Milbrey nodded encouragement, seeming to chuckle inwardly.

In the spacious dining compartment of the Shepler car the party was presently at lunch.

"You seem so little like a Western man," Mrs. Milbrey confided graciously to Percival on her right.

"We cal'late he'll fetch out all straight, though, in a year or so," put in Uncle Peter, from
over his chop, with guileless intent to defend his grandson from what he believed to be an
attack. "Of course a young man's bound to get some foolishness into him in an Eastern college
like this boy went to."

Percival had flushed at the compliment to himself; also at the old man's failure to identify
it as such.

Mr. Milbrey caressed his glass of claret with ardent eyes and took the situation in hand with
the easy confidence of a master.

"The West," said he, affably, "has sent us some magnificent men. In truth, it's amazing to
take count of the Western men among us in all the professions. They are notable, perhaps I
should say, less for deliberate niceties of style than for a certain rough directness, but
so adaptable is the American character that one frequently does not suspect their--er--humble
origin."

"Meaning their Western origin?" inquired Shepler, blandly, with secret intent to brew strife.

"Well--er--to be sure, my dear fellow, not necessarily humble,--of course--perhaps I should
have said--"

"Of course, not necessarily disgraceful, as you say, Milbrey," interrupted Shepler, "and they
often do conceal it. Why, I know a chap in New York who was positively never east of Kansas
City until he was twenty-five or so, and yet that fellow to-day"--he lowered his voice to the
pitch of impressiveness--"has over eighty pairs of trousers and complains of the hardship every
time he has to go to Boston."

"Fancy, now!" exclaimed Mrs. Drelmer, the blonde. Mr. Milbrey looked slightly puzzled and Uncle
Peter chuckled, affirming mentally that Rulon Shepler must be like one of those tug-boats,
with most of his lines under the surface.

"But, I say, you know, Shepler," protested one of the solemn young men, "he must still talk
like a banjo."

"And gargle all his 'r's,'" added the other, very earnestly. "They never get over that, you know."

"Instead of losin' 'em entirely," put in Uncle Peter, who found himself feeling what his grandson
called "Westy." "Of course, he calls it 'Ne' Yawk,' and prob'ly he don't like it in Boston
because they always call 'em 'rawroystahs.'"

"Good for the old boy!" thought Percival, and then, aloud: "It is hard for the West and the
East to forgive each other's dialects. The inflated 'r' and the smothered 'r' never quite harmonise."

"Western money talks good straight New York talk," ventured Miss Milbrey, with the air of one
who had observed in her time.

Shepler grinned, and the parents of the young woman resisted with indifferent success their
twin impulses to frown.

"But the service is so wretched in the West," suggested Oldaker, the carefully dressed little
man with the tired, troubled eyes, whom the world had been deprived of. "I fancy, now, there's
not a good waiter this side of New York."

"An American," said Percival, "never can make a good waiter or a good valet. It takes a Latin,
or, still better, a Briton, to feel the servility required for good service of that sort. An
American, now, always fails at it because he knows he is as good as you are, and he knows that
you know it, and you know that he knows you know it, and there you are, two mirrors of American
equality face to face and reflecting each other endlessly, and neither is comfortable. The
American is as uncomfortable at having certain services performed for him by another American
as the other is in performing them. Give him a Frenchman or an Italian or a fellow born within
the sound of Bow Bells to clean his boots and lay out his things and serve his dinner and he's
all right enough."

"Hear, hear!" cried Uncle Peter.

"Fancy, now," said Mrs. Drelmer, "a creature in a waiter's jacket having emotions of that sort!"

"Our excellent country," said Mr. Milbrey, "is perhaps not yet what it will be; there is undeniably
a most distressing rawness where we might expect finish. Now in Chicago," he continued in a
tone suitably hushed for the relation of occult phenomena, "we dined with a person who served
champagne with the oysters, soup, fish, and entree, and for the remainder of the dinner--you
may credit me or not--he proffered a claret of 1875--. I need hardly remind you, the most delicate
vintage of the latter half of the century--and it was served frappe." There was genuine emotion
in the speaker's voice.

"And papa nearly swooned when our host put cracked ice and two lumps of sugar into his own glass--"

"Avice, dear!" remonstrated the father in a tone implying that some things positively must
not be mentioned at table.

"Well, you shouldn't expect too much of those self-made men in Chicago," said Shepler.

"If they'd only make themselves as well as they make their sausages and things," sighed Mr.
Milbrey.

"And the self-made man will talk shop," suggested Oldaker. "He thinks you're dying to hear
how he made the first thousand of himself."

"Still, those Chicago chaps learn quickly enough when they settle in New York," ventured one
of the young men.

"I knew a Chicago chap who lived East two years and went back not a half bad sort," said the
other. "God help him now, though; his father made him go back to work in a butcher shop or
something of the sort."

"Best thing I ever heard about Chicago," said Uncle Peter, "a man from your town told me once
he had to stay in Chicago a year, and, says he, 'I went out there a New Yorker, and I went
home an American,' he says." The old man completed this anecdote in tones that were slightly
inflamed.

"How extremely typical!" said Mrs. Milbrey. "Truly the West is the place of unspoiled Americanism
and the great unspent forces; you are quite right, Mr. Bines."

"Think of all the unspent forces back in that silver mine," remarked Miss Milbrey, with a patent
effort to be significant.

"My perverse child delights to pose as a sordid young woman," the fond mother explained to
Percival, "yet no one can be less so, and you, Mr. Bines, I am sure, would be the last to suspect
her of it. I saw in you at once those sterling qualities--"

"Isn't it dreadfully dark down in that sterling silver mine?" observed Miss Milbrey, apropos
of nothing, apparently, while her mother attacked a second chop that she had meant not to touch.

"Here's hoping we'll soon be back in God's own country," said Oldaker, raising his glass.

"Hear, hear!" cried Uncle Peter, and drained his glass eagerly as they drank the toast. Whereat
they all laughed and Mrs. Drelmer said, "What a dear, lively wit, for an old gentleman."

"Oldaker," said Shepler, "has really been the worst sufferer. This is his first trip West."

"Beg pardon, Shepler! I was West as far as Buffalo--let me see--in 1878 or '79."

"Dear me! is that so?" queried Uncle Peter. "I got East as fur as Cheyenne that same year.
We nearly run into each other, didn't we?"

Shepler grinned again.

"Oldaker found a man from New York on the train the other day, up in one of the emigrant cars.
He was a truck driver, and he looked it and talked it, but Oldaker stuck by him all the afternoon."

"Well, he'd left the old town three weeks after I had, and he'd been born there the same year
I was--in the Ninth ward--and he remembered as well as I did the day Barnum's museum burned
at Broadway and Ann. I liked to hear him talk. Why, it was a treat just to hear him say Broadway
and Twenty-third Street, or Madison Square or City Hall Park. The poor devil had consumption,
too, and probably he'll never see them again. I don't know if I shall ever have it, but I'd
never leave the old town as he was doing."

"That's like Billy Brue," said Uncle Peter. "Billy loves faro bank jest as this gentleman loves
New York. When he gets a roll he has to play. One time he landed in Pocatello when there wa'n't
but one game in town. Billy found it and started in. A friend saw him there and called him
out. 'Billy,' says he, 'cash in and come out; that's a brace game.' 'Sure?' says Billy. 'Sure,'
says the feller. 'All right,' says Billy, 'much obliged fur puttin' me on.' And he started
out lookin' fur another game. About two hours later the feller saw Billy comin' out of the
same place and Billy owned up he'd gone back there and blowed in every cent. 'Why, you geezer,'
says his friend, 'didn't I put you on that they was dealin' brace there?' 'Sure,' says Billy,
'sure you did. But what could I do? It was the only game in town!'"

"That New York mania is the same sort," said Shepler, laughing, while Mrs. Drelmer requested
everybody to fancy immediately.

"Your grandfather is so dear and quaint," said Mrs. Milbrey; "you must certainly bring him
to New York with you, for of course a young man of your capacity and graces will never be satisfied
out of New York."

"Young men like yourself are assuredly needed there," remarked Mr. Milbrey, warmly.

"Surely they are," agreed Miss Milbrey, and yet with a manner that seemed almost to annoy both
parents. They were sparing no opportunity to make the young man conscious of his real oneness
with those about him, and yet subtly to intimate that people of just the Milbreys' perception
were required to divine it at present. "These Westerners fancy you one of themselves, I dare
say," Mrs. Milbrey had said, and the young man purred under the strokings. His fever for the
East was back upon him. His weeks with Uncle Peter going over the fields where his father had
prevailed had made him convalescent, but these New Yorkers--the very manner and atmosphere
of them--undid the work. He envied them their easier speech, their matter-of-fact air of omniscience,
the elaborate and cultivated simplicity of their dress, their sureness and sufficiency in all
that they thought and said and did. He was homesick again for the life he had glimpsed. The
West was rude, desolate, and depressing. Even Uncle Peter, whom he had come warmly to admire,
jarred upon him with his crudity and his Western assertiveness.

And there was the woman of the East, whose presence had made the day to seem dream-like; and
she was kind, which was more than he would have dared to hope, and her people, after their
first curious chill of indifference, seemed actually to be courting him. She, the fleeting
and impalpable dream-love, whom the thought of seeing ever again had been wildly absurd, was
now a human creature with a local habitation, the most beautiful name in the world, and two
parents whose complaisance was obvious even through the lover's timidity.

CHAPTER VIII.

Up Skiplap Canon

The meal was ending in smoke, the women, excepting Miss Milbrey, having lighted cigarettes
with the men. The talk had grown less truculently sectional. The Angstead twins told of their
late fishing trip to Lake St. John for salmon, of projected tours to British Columbia for mountain
sheep, and to Manitoba for elk and moose.

Mr. Milbrey described with minute and loving particularity the preparation of oeufs de Faisan,
avec beurre au champagne.

Mrs. Milbrey related an anecdote of New York society, not much in itself, but which permitted
the disclosure that she habitually addressed by their first names three of the foremost society
leaders, and that each of these personages adopted a like familiarity toward her.

Mrs. Drelmer declared that she meant to have Uncle Peter Bines at one of her evenings the very
first time he should come to New York, and that, if he didn't let her know of his coming, she
would be offended. Oldaker related an incident of the ball given to the Prince of Wales, travelling
as Baron Renfrew, on the evening of October 12, 1860, in which his father had figured briefly
before the royal guest to the abiding credit of American tact and gentility.

Shepler was amused until he became sleepy, whereupon he extended the freedom of his castle
to his guests, and retired to his stateroom.

Uncle Peter took a final shot at Oldaker. He was observed to be laughing, and inquiry brought this:

"I jest couldn't help snickerin' over his idee of God's own country. He thinks God's own country
is a little strip of an island with a row of well-fed folks up and down the middle, and a lot
of hungry folks on each side. Mebbe he's right. I'll be bound, it needs the love of God. But
if it is His own country, it don't make Him any connysoor of countries with me. I'll tell you
that."

Oldaker smiled at this assault, the well-bred, tolerant smile that loyal New Yorkers reserve
for all such barbaric belittling of their empire. Then he politely asked Uncle Peter to show
Mrs. Drelmer and himself through the stamp mill.

At Percival's suggestion of a walk, Miss Milbrey was delighted.

After an inspection of the Bines car, in which Oldaker declared he would be willing to live
for ever, if it could be anchored firmly in Madison Square, the party separated. Out into the
clear air, already cooling under the slanting rays of the sun, the young man and the girl went
together. Behind them lay the one street of the little mining camp, with its wooden shanties
on either side of the railroad track. Down this street Uncle Peter had gone, leading his charges
toward the busy ant-hill on the mountainside. Ahead the track wound up the canon, cunningly
following the tortuous course of the little river to be sure of practicable grades. On the
farther side of the river a mountain road paralleled the railway. Up this road the two went,
followed by a playful admonition from Mrs. Milbrey: "Remember, Mr. Bines, I place my child
in your keeping."

Percival waxed conscientious about his charge and insisted at once upon being assured that
Miss Milbrey would be warm enough with the scarlet golf-cape about her shoulders; that she
was used to walking long distances; that her boots were stoutly soled; and that she didn't
mind the sun in their faces. The girl laughed at him.

Looking up the canon with its wooded sides, cool and green, they could see a grey, dim mountain,
with patches of snow near its top, in the far distance, and ranges of lesser eminences stepping
up to it. "It's a hundred miles away," he told her.

Down the canon the little river flickered toward them, like a billowy silver ribbon "trimmed
with white chiffon around the rocks," declared the girl. In the blue depths of the sky, an
immense height above, lolled an eagle, lazy of wing, in lordly indolence. The suggestions to
the eye were all of spacious distances and large masses--of the room and stuff for unbounded
action.

"Your West is the breathingest place," she said, as they crossed a foot-bridge over the noisy
little stream and turned up the road. "I don't believe I ever drew a full breath until I came
to these altitudes."

"One has to breathe more air here--there's less oxygen in it, and you must breathe more to
get your share, and so after awhile one becomes robust. Your cheeks are already glowing, and
we've hardly started. There, now, there are your colours, see--"

Along the edge of the green pines and spruce were lavender asters. A little way in the woods
they could see the blue columbines and the mountain phlox, pink and red.

"There are your eyes and your cheeks."

"What a dangerous character you'd be if you were sent to match silks!"

On the dry barren slopes of gravel across the river, full in the sun's glare, grew the Spanish
bayonet, with its spikes of creamy white flowers.

"There I am, more nearly," she pointed to them; "they're ever so much nearer my disposition.
But about this thin air; it must make men work harder for what comes easier back in our country,
so that they may become able to do more--more capable. I am thinking of your grandfather. You
don't know how much I admire him. He is so stanch and strong and fresh. There's more fire in
him now than in my father or Launton Oldaker, and I dare say he's a score of years older than
either of them. I don't think you quite appreciate what a great old fellow he is."

"I admire Uncle Peter much more, I'm sure, than he admires me. He's afraid I'm not strong enough
to admire that Eastern climate of yours--social and moral."

"I suppose it's natural for you to wish to go. You'd be bored here, would you not? You couldn't
stay in these mountains and be such a man as your grandfather. And yet there ought to be so
much to do here; it's all so fresh and roomy and jolly. Really I've grown enthusiastic about it."

"Ah, but think of what there is in the East--and you are there. To think that for six months
I've treasured every little memory of you--such a funny little lot as they were--to think that
this morning I awoke thinking of you, yet hardly hoping ever to see you, and to think that
for half the night we had ridden so near each other in sleep, and there was no sign or signal
or good omen. And then to think you should burst upon me like some new sunrise that the stupid
astronomers hadn't predicted.

"You see," he went on, after a moment, "I don't ask what you think of me. You couldn't think
anything much as yet, but there's something about this whole affair, our meeting and all, that
makes me think it's going to be symmetrical in the end. I know it won't end here. I'll tell
you one way Western men learn. They learn not to be afraid to want things out of their reach,
and they believe devoutly--because they've proved it so often--that if you want a thing hard
enough and keep wanting it, nothing can keep it away from you."

A bell had been tinkling nearer and nearer on the road ahead. Now a heavy wagon, filled with
sacks of ore, came into view, drawn by four mules. As they stood aside to let it pass he scanned
her face for any sign it might show, but he could see no more than a look of interest for the
brawny driver of the wagon, shouting musically to his straining team.

"You are rather inscrutable," he said, as they resumed the road.

She turned and smiled into his eyes with utter frankness.

"At least you must be sure that I like you; that I am very friendly; that I want to know you
better, and want you to know me better. You don't know me at all, you know. You Westerners
have another way, of accepting people too readily. It may work no harm among yourselves, but
perhaps Easterners are a bit more perilous. Sometimes, now, a very Eastern person doesn't even
accept herself--himself--very trustingly; she--he--finds it so hard to get acquainted with
himself."

The young man provided one of those silences of which a few discerning men are instinctively
capable and for which women thank them.

"This road," she said, after a little time of rapid walking, "leads right up to the end of
the world, doesn't it? See, it ends squarely in the sun." They stopped where the turn had opened
to the west a long vista of grey and purple hills far and high. They stood on a ridge of broken
quartz and gneiss, thrown up in a bygone age. To their left a few dwarf Scotch firs threw shadows
back toward the town. The ball of red fire in the west was half below the rim of the distant peak.

"Stand so,"--she spoke in a slightly hushed tone that moved him a step nearer almost to touch
her arm,--"and feel the round little earth turning with us. We always think the sun drops down
away from us, but it stays still. Now remember your astronomy and feel the earth turn. See--you
can actually see it move--whirling along like a child's ball because it can't help itself,
and then there's the other motion around the sun, and the other, the rushing of everything
through space, and who knows how many others, and yet we plan our futures and think we shall
do finely this way or that, and always forget that we're taken along in spite of ourselves.
Sometimes I think I shall give up trying; and then I see later that even that feeling was one
of the unknown motions that I couldn't control. The only thing we know is that we are moved
in spite of ourselves, so what is the use of bothering about how many ways, or where they shall
fetch us?"

"Ah, Miss Khayyam, I've often read your father's verses."

"No relation whatever; we're the same person--he was I."

"But don't forget you can see the earth moving by a rising as well as by a setting star, by
watching a sun rise--"

"A rising star if you wish," she said, smiling once more with perfect candour and friendliness.

They turned to go back in the quick-coming mountain dusk.

"I shall look forward to seeing you--and your mother and sister?--in New York," she said, when
they parted, "and I am sure I shall have more to say when we're better known to each other."

"If you were the one woman before, if the thought of you was more than the substance of any
other to me,--you must know how it will be now, when the dream has come true. It's no small
thing for your best dream to come true."

"Dear me! haven't we been sentimental and philosophic? I'm never like this at home, I assure
you. I've really been thoughtful."

From up the canon came the sound of a puffing locomotive that presently steamed by them with
its three dingy little coaches, and, after a stop for water and the throwing of a switch, pushed
back to connect with the Shepler car.

The others of the party crowded out on to the rear platform as Percival helped Miss Milbrey
up the steps. Uncle Peter had evidently been chatting with Shepler, for as they came out the
old man was saying, "'Get action' is my motto. Do things. Don't fritter. Be something and be
it good and hard. Get action early and often."

Shepler nodded. "But men like us are apt to be unreasonable with the young. We expect them
to have their own vigour and our wisdom, and the infirmities of neither."

The good-byes were hastily said, and the little train rattled down the canon. Miss Milbrey
stood in the door of the car, and Percival watched her while the glistening rails that seemed
to be pushing her away narrowed in perspective. She stood motionless and inscrutable to the
last, but still looking steadily toward him--almost wistfully, it seemed to him once.

"Well," he said cheerfully to Uncle Peter.

"You know, son, I don't like to cuss, but except one or two of them folks I'd sooner live in
the middle kittle of hell than in the place that turns 'em out. They rile me--that talk about
'people in the humbler walks of life.' Of course I am humble, but then, son, if you come right
down to it, as the feller said, I ain't so damned humble!"

CHAPTER IX.

Three Letters, Private and Confidential

From Mr. Percival Bines to Miss Psyche Bines, Montana City.

On car at Skiplap, Tuesday Night.

Dear Sis:--When you kept nagging me about "Who is the girl?" and I said you could search me,
you wouldn't have it that way. But, honestly, until this morning I didn't know her myself.
Now that I can put you next, here goes.

One night last March, after I'd come back from the other side, I happened into a little theatre
on Broadway where a burlesque was running. It's a rowdy little place--a music hall--but nice
people go there because, though it's stuffy, it's kept decent.

She was in a box with two men--one old and one young--and an older woman. As soon as I saw
her she had me lashed to the mast in a high sea, with the great salt waves dashing over me.
I never took much stock in the tales about its happening at first sight, but they're as matter-of-fact
as market reports. Soon as I looked at her it seemed to me I'd known her always. I was sure
we knew each other better than any two people between the Battery and Yonkers, and that I wasn't
acting sociable to sit down there away from her and pretend we were Strangers Yet. Actually,
it rattled me so I had to take the full count. If I hadn't been wedged in between a couple
of people that filled all the space, and then some, it isn't any twenty to one that I wouldn't
have gone right up to her and asked her what she meant by cutting me. I was udgy enough for
it. But I kept looking and after awhile I was able to sit up and ask what hit me.

She was dressed in something black and kind of shiny and wore a big black hat fussed up with
little red roses, and her face did more things to me in a minute than all the rest I've ever
seen. It was full of little kissy places. Her lips were very red and her teeth were very white,
and I couldn't tell about her eyes. But she was bred up to the last notch, I could see that.

Well, I watched her through the tobacco smoke until the last curtain fell. They were putting
on wraps for a minute or so, and I noticed that the young fellow in the party, who'd been drinking
all through the show, wasn't a bit too steady to do an act on the high-wire. They left the
box and came down the stairs and I bunched into the crowd and let myself ooze out with them,
wondering if I'd ever see her again.

I fetched up at an exit on the side street, and there they were directly in front of me. I
just naturally drifted to one side and continued my little private corner in crude rubber.
It was drizzling in a beastly way, the street was full of carriages, numbers were being called,
cab-drivers were insulting each other hoarsely, people dashing out to see if their carriages
weren't coming--everything in a whirl of drizzle and dark and yells, with the horses' hoofs
on the pavement sounding like castanets. The two older people got into a carriage and were
driven off, while she and the young fellow waited for theirs. I could see then that he was
good and soused. He was the same lad they throw on the screen when the "Old Homestead" Quartet
sings "Where Is My Wandering Boy To-night?" I could see she was annoyed and a little worried,
because he was past taking notice.

The man kept yelling the number of their carriage from time to time, while the others he'd
called were driving up--it was 249 if any one ever tries to worm it out of you--and then I
saw from her face that 249 had wriggled pretty near to the curb, but was still kept away by
another carriage. She said something to the drunken cub and started to reach the carriage by
going out into the street behind the one in its way. At the same time their carriage started
forward, and the inebriate, instead of going with her, started the other way to meet it, and
so, there she was alone on the slippery pavement in this muddle of prancing horses and yelling
terriers. If you can get any bets that I was more than two seconds getting out there to her,
take them all, and give better than track odds if necessary. Then I guess she got rattled,
for when I would have led her back to the curb she made a dash the other way and all but slipped
under a team of bays that were just aching to claw the roses off her hat. I saw she was helpless
and "turned around," so I just naturally grabbed her and she was so frightened by this time
that she grabbed me, and the result was that I carried her to the sidewalk and set her down.
Their carriage still stood there with little Georgie Rumlets screaming to the driver to go
on. I had her inside in a jiffy, and they were off. Not a word about "My Preserver!" though,
of course, with the fright and noise and her mortification, that was natural.

After that, you can believe it or not, she was the girl. And I never dreamed of seeing her
any place but New York again.

Well, this morning when I came up from below at the mine she was standing there as if she had
been waiting for me. She is Miss Avice Milbrey, of New York. Her father and mother--fine people,
the real thing, I judge--were with her, members of a party Rulon Shepler has with him on his
car. They've been here all day; went through the mine; had lunch with them, and later a walk
with her, they leaving at 5.30 for the East. We got on fairly well, considering. She is a wonder,
if anybody cross-examines you. She is about your height, I should judge, about five feet four,
though not so plump as you; still her look of slenderness is deceptive. She's one of the build
that aren't so big as they look, nor yet so small as they look. Thoroughbred is the word for
her, style and action, as the horse people say, perfect. The poise of her head, her mettlesome
manner, her walk, show that she's been bred up like a Derby winner. Her face is the one all
the aristocrats are copied from, finely cut nose, chin firm but dainty, lips just delicately
full and the reddest ever, and her colour when she has any a rose-pink. I don't know that I
can give you her eyes. You only see first that they're deep and clear, but as near as anything
they are the warm slatish lavender blue you see in the little fall asters. She has so much
hair it makes her head look small, a sort of light chestnut, with warmish streaks in it. Transparent
is another word for her. You can look right through her--eyes and skin are so clear. Her nature
too is the frank, open kind, "step in and examine our stock; no trouble to show goods" and
all that, and she is so beautifully unconscious of her beauty that it goes double. At times
she gave me a queer little impression of being older at the game than I am, though she can't
be a day over twenty, but I guess that's because she's been around in society so much. Probably
she'd be called the typical New York girl, if you wanted to talk talky talk.

Now I've told you everything, except that the people all asked kindly after you, especially
her mother and a Mrs. Drelmer, who's a four-horse team all by herself. Oh, yes! No, I can't
remember very well; some kind of a brown walking skirt, short, and high boots and one of those
blue striped shirt-waists, the squeezy looking kind, and when we went to walk, a red plaid
golf cape; and for general all-around dearness--say, the other entries would all turn green
and have to be withdrawn. If any one thinks this thing is going to end here you make a book
on it right away; take all you can get. Little Willie Lushlets was her brother--a lovely boy
if you get to talking reckless. With love to Lady Abercrombie, and trusting, my dear Countess,
to have the pleasure of meeting you at Henley a fortnight hence, I remain,

Most cordially yours,

E. MALVERN DEVYR ST. TREVORS,

Bart. & Notary Public.

From Mrs. Joseph Drelmer to the Hon. Cecil G. H. Mauburn, New York.

EN ROUTE, August 28th.

MY DEAR MAUBURN:--Ever hear of the tribe of Bines? If not, you need to. The father, immensely
wealthy, died a bit ago, leaving a widow and two children, one of the latter being a marriageable
daughter in more than the merely technical sense. There is also a grandfather, now a little
descended into the vale of years, who, they tell me, has almost as many dollars as you or I
would know what to do with, a queer old chap who lounges about the mountains and looks as if
he might have anything but money. We met the son and the old man at one of their mines yesterday.
They have a private car as large as Shepler's and even more sybaritic, and they'd been making
a tour of inspection over their properties. They lunched with us. Knowing the Milbreys, you
will divine the warmth of their behaviour toward the son. It was too funny at first. Avice
was the only one to suspect at once that he was the very considerable personage he is, and
so she promptly sequestered him, with a skill born of her long practice, in the depths of the
earth, somewhere near China, I fancy. Her dear parents were furious. Dressed as one of the
miners they took him to be an employee. The whole party, taking the cue from outraged parenthood,
treated him icily when he emerged from one of those subterranean galleries with that tender
sprig of girlishness. That is, we were icy until, on the way up, he remaining in the depths,
Avice's dear mother began to rebuke the thoughtless minx for her indiscretion of strolling
through the earth with a working person. Then Avice, sweet chatterbox, with joyful malice revealed
that the young man, whose name none of us had caught, was Bines, and that he owned the mine
we were in, and she didn't know how many others, nor did she believe he knew himself. You should
have felt the temperature rise. It went up faster than we were going.

By the time we reached the surface the two Milbreys wore looks that would have made the angel
of peace and good-will look full of hatred and distrust. Nothing would satisfy them but that
we wait to thank the young Croesus for his courtesy. I waited because I remembered the daughter,
and Oldaker and the Angstead twins waited out of decency. And when the genius of the mine appeared
from out his golden catacombs we fell upon him in desperate kindness.

Later in the day I learned from him that he expects to bring his mother and sister to New York
this fall, and that they mean to make their home there hereafter. Of course that means that
the girl has notions of marriage. What made me think so quickly of her is that in San Francisco,
at a theatre last winter, she was pointed out to me, and while I do you not the injustice of
supposing it would make the least difference to you, she is rather a beauty, you'll find; figure
fullish, yellow hair, and a good-natured, well-featured, pleasing sort of face; a bit rococo
in manner, I suspect; a little too San Francisco, as so many of these Western beauties are,
but you'd not mind that, and a year in New York will tone her down anyway.

Now if your dear uncle will only confer a lasting benefit upon the world and his title upon
you, by paying the only debt he is ever liable to pay, I am persuaded you could be the man
here. I know nothing of how the fortune was left, nor of its extent, except that it's said
to be stiffish, and out here that means a big, round sum. The reason I write promptly is that
you may not go out of the country just now. That sweet little Milbrey chit--really, Avice is
far too old now for ingenue parts--has not only grappled the son with hooks of steel, but from
remarks the good mother dropped concerning the fine qualities of her son, she means to convert
the daughter's dot into Milbrey prestige, also. What a glorious double stroke it would be,
after all their years of trying. However, with your title, even in prospective, Fred Milbrey
is no rival for you to fear, providing you are on the ground as soon as he, which is why I
wish you to stay in New York.

I am indeed gratified that you have broken off whatever affair there may have been between
you and that music-hall person. Really, you know, though they talk so about us, a young man
can't mess about with that sort of thing in New York as he can in London. So I'm glad she's
gone back, and as she is in no position to harm you I should pay no attention to her threats.
What under heaven did the creature expect? Why should she have wanted to marry you?

I shall see you probably in another fortnight.

You know that Milbrey girl must get her effrontery direct from where they make it. She pretended
that at first she took young Bines for what we all took him, an employee of the mine. You can
almost catch them winking at each other, when she tells it, and dear mamma with such beautiful
resignation, says, "My Avice is so impulsively democratic." Dear Avice, you know, is really
quite as impulsive as the steel bridge our train has just rattled over. Sincerely,

JOSEPHINE PRESTON DRELMER.

From Miss Avice Milbrey to Mrs. Cornelia Van Geist, New York.

Muetterchen, dearest, I feel like that green hunter you had to sell last spring--the one that
would go at a fence with the most perfect display of serious intentions, and then balk and
bolt when it came to jumping. Can it be that I, who have been trained from the cradle to the
idea of marrying for money, will bolt the gate after all the expense and pains lavished upon
my education to this end; after the years spent in learning how to enchant, subdue, and exploit
the most useful of all animals, and the most agreeable, barring a few? And yet, right when
I'm the fittest--twenty-four years old, knowing all my good points and just how to coerce the
most admiration for each, able nicely to calculate the exact disturbing effect of the ensemble
upon any poor male, and feeling confident of my excessively eligible parti when I decide for
him--in this situation, striven for so earnestly, I feel like bolting the bars. How my trainer
and jockey would weep tears of rage and despair if they guessed it!

There, there--I know your shrewd grey eyes are crackling with curiosity and, you want to know
what it's all about, whether to scold me or mother me, and will I please omit the entrees and
get to the roast mutton. But you dear, dear old aunt, you, there is more vagueness than detail,
and I know I'll strain your patience before I've done. But, to relieve your mind, nothing at
all has really happened. After all, it's mostly a troublesome state of mind, that I shall doubtless
find gone when we reach Jersey City,--and in two ways this Western trip is responsible for
it. Do you know the journey itself has been fascinating. Too bad so many of us cross the ocean
twenty times before we know anything of this country. We loiter in Paris, do the stupid German
watering-places, the Norway fjords, down to Italy for the museums, see the chateaux of the
Loire, or do the English race-tracks, thinking we're 'mused; and all the time out here where
the sun goes down is an intensely interesting and beautiful country of our own that we overlook.
You know I'd never before been even as far as Chicago. Now for the first time I can appreciate
lots of those things in Whitman, that--

"I think heroic deeds were all conceived in the open air, and free poems,     also.

I mayn't have quoted correctly, but you know the sort of thing I mean, that sounds so breezy
and stimulating. And they've helped me understand the immensity of the landscapes and the ideas
out here, the big, throbbing, rough young life, and under it all, as Whitman says, "a meaning--Democracy,
American Democracy." Really it's been interesting, the jolliest time of my life, and it's got
me all unsettled. More than once in watching some scene typical of the region, the plain, busy,
earnest people, I've actually thrilled to think that this was my country--felt that queer little
tickling tingle that locates your spine for you. I'm sure there's no ennui here. Some one said
the other day, "Ennui is a disease that comes from living on other people's money." I said
no, that I'd often had as fine an attack as if I'd been left a billion, that ennui is when
you don't know what to do next and wouldn't do it if you did. Well, here they always do know
what to do next, and as one of them told me, "We always get up early the day before to do it."

Auntie, dear, the trip has made me more restless and dissatisfied than ever. It makes me want
to do something--to risk something, to want to want something more than I've ever learned to want.

That's one reason I'm acting badly. The other will interest you more.

It's no less a reason than the athletic young Bayard who cheated those cab-horses of their
prey that night Fred didn't drink all the Scotch whiskey in New York. Our meeting, and the
mater's treatment of him before she discovered who he was, are too delicious to write. I must
wait to tell you.

It is enough to say that now I heard his name it recalled nothing to me, and I took him from
his dress to be a workingman in the mine we visiting, though from his speech and manner of
a gentleman, someone in authority. Dear, he was so dear and so Westernly breezy and progressive
and enterprising and so appallingly candid. I've been the "one woman", the "unknown but remembered
ideal" since that encounter. Of course, that was to be said, but strangely enough he meant
it. He was actually and unaffectedly making love to me. He's not so large or tall, but quick
and springy, and muscled like a panther. He's not beautiful either but pleasant to look at,
one of those broad high-cheeked faces one sees so much in the West, with the funniest quick
yellowish grey eyes and the most disreputable moustache I ever saw, yellow and ragged, If he
must eat it, I wish he would eat it off even clear across. And he's likely to talk the most
execrable slang, or to quote Browning. But he was making real love, and you know I'm not used
to that. I'm accustomed to go my pace before sharply calculating eyes, to show if I'm worth
the asking price. But here was real love being made off down in the earth (we'd run away from
the others because I liked him at once). I don't mind telling you he moved me, partly because
I had wondered about him from that night, and partly because of all I had come to feel about
this new place and the new people, and because he seemed such a fine, active specimen of Western
manhood. I won't tell you all the wild, lawless thoughts that scurried and sneaked through
my mind--they don't matter now--for all at once it came out that he was the only son of that
wealthy Bines who died awhile ago--you remember the name was mentioned that night at your house
when they were discussing the exodus of Western millionaires to New York; some one named the
father as one who liked coming to New York to dissipate occasionally, but who was still rooted
in the soil where his millions grew.

There was the son before me, just an ordinary man of millions, after all--and my little toy
balloon of romance that I'd been floating so gaily on a string of sentiment was pricked to
nothing in an instant. I felt my nostrils expand with the excitement of the chase, and thereafter
I was my coldly professional self. If that young man has not now a high estimate of my charms
of person and mind, then have my ways forgot their cunning and I be no longer the daughter
of Margaret Milbrey, nee van Schoule.

But, Muetterchen, now comes the disgraceful part. I'm afraid of myself, even in spite of our
affairs being so bad. Dad has doubtless told you something must be done very soon, and I seem
to be the only one to do it. And yet I am shying at the gate. This trip has unsettled me, I
tell you, letting me, among other things, see my old self. Before I always rather liked the
idea of marriage, that is, after I'd been out a couple of years--not too well, but well enough--and
now some way I rebel, not from scruples, but from pure selfishness. I'm beginning to find that
I want to enjoy myself and to find, further, that I'm not indisposed to take chances--as they
say out here. Will you understand, I wonder? And do women who sell themselves ever find any
real pleasure in the bargain? The most eloquent examples, the ones that sell themselves to
many men, lead wretched lives. But does the woman who sells herself to but one enjoy life any
more? She's surely as bad, from any standpoint of morals, and I imagine sometimes she is less
happy. At any rate, she has less freedom and more obligations under her contract. You see I
am philosophising pretty coldly. Now be horrified if you will.

I am selfish by good right, though. "Haven't we spent all our surplus in keeping you up for
a good marriage?" says the mater, meaning by a good marriage that I shall bring enough money
into the family to "keep up its traditions." I am, in other words, an investment from which
they expect large returns. I told her I hoped she could trace her selfishness to its source
as clearly as I could mine, and as for the family traditions, Fred was preserving those in
an excellent medium. Which was very ugly in me, and I cried afterwards and told her how sorry
I was.

Are you shocked by my cold calculations? Well, I am trying to let you understand me, and I--

"...have no time to waste In patching fig-leaves for the naked truth."

I am cursed not only with consistent feminine longings and desires, but, in spite of my training
and the examples around me, with a disinclination to be wholly vicious. Awhile ago marriage
meant only more luxury and less worry about money. I never gave any thought to the husband,
certainly never concerned myself with any notions of duty or obligation toward him. The girls
I know are taught painstakingly how to get a husband, but nothing of how to be a wife. The
husband in my case was to be an inconvenience, but doubtless an amusing one. For all his oppression,
if there were that, and even for the mere offence of his existence, I should wreak my spite
merrily on his vulgar dollars.

But you are saying that I like the present eligible. That's the trouble. I like him so well
I haven't the heart to marry him. When I was twenty I could have loved him devotedly, I believe.
Now something seems to be gone, some freshness or fondness. I can still love--I know it only
too well night and day--but it must be a different kind of man. He is so very young and reverent
and tender, and in a way so unsophisticated. He is so afraid of me, for all his pretence of
boldness.

Is it because I must be taken by sheer force? I'll not be surprised if it is. Do we not in
our secret soul of souls nourish this beatitude: "Blessed is the man who destroys all barriers"?
Florence Akemit said as much one day, and Florence, poor soul, knows something of the matter.
Do we not sit defiantly behind the barriers, insolently challenging--threatening capital punishment
for any assault, relaxing not one severity, yet falling meek and submissive and glad, to the
man who brutally and honestly beats them down, and destroys them utterly? So many fail by merely
beating them down. Of course if an untidy litter is left we make a row. We reconstruct the
barrier and that particular assailant is thenceforth deprived of a combatant's rights. What
a dear you are that I can say these things to you! Were girls so frank in your time?

Well, my knight of the "golden cross" (joke; laughter and loud applause, and cries of "Go on!")
has a little, much indeed, of the impetuous in him, but, alas! not enough. He has a pretty
talent for it, but no genius. If I were married to him to-morrow, as surely as I am a woman
I should be made to inflict pain upon him the next day, with an insane stress to show him,
perhaps, I was not the ideal woman he had thought me--perhaps out of a jealousy of that very
ideal I had inspired--rational creatures, aren't we?--beg pardon--not we, then, but I. Now
he, being a real likable man of a man, can I do that--for money? Do I want the money badly
enough? Would I not even rather be penniless with the man who coerced every great passion and
littlest impulse, body and soul--perhaps with a very hateful insolence of power over me? Do
you know, I suspect sometimes that I've been trained down too fine, as to my nerves, I mean.
I doubt if it's safe to pamper and trim and stimulate and refine a woman in that hothouse atmosphere--at
least if she's a healthy woman. She's too apt sometime to break her gait, get the bit of tradition
between her teeth, and then let her impulses run away with her.

Oh, Muetterchen, I am so sick and sore, and yet filled with a strange new zest for this old
puzzle of life. Will I ever be the same again? This man is going to ask me to marry him the
moment I am ready for him to. Shall I be kind enough to tell him no, or shall I steel myself
to go in and hurt him--make him writhe?

And yet do you know what he gave me while I was with him? I wonder if women feel it commonly?
It was a desire for motherhood--a curiously vivid and very definite longing--entirely irrespective
of him, you understand, although he inspired it. Without loving him or being at all moved toward
him, he made me sheerly want to be a mother! Or is it only that men we don't love make us feel
motherly?

Am I wholly irrational and selfish and bad, or what am I? I know you'll love me, whatever it
is, and I wish now I could snuggle on that soft, cushiony shoulder of yours and go to sleep.

Can anything be more pitiful than "a fine old family" afflicted with dry-rot like ours? I'm
always amused when I read about the suffering in the tenements. The real anguish is up in the
homes like ours. We have to do without so very many more things, and mere hunger and cold are
easy compared to the suffering we feel.

Perhaps when I'm back to that struggle for appearances, I'll relent and "barter my charms"
as the old novels used to say, sanely and decently like a well brought-up New York girl--with
certain reservations, to a man who can support the family in the style to which it wants to
become accustomed. Yet there may be a way out. There is a Bines daughter, for example, and
mamma, who never does one half where she can as well do two, will marry her to Fred if she
can. On the other hand, Joe Drelmer was putting in words for young Mauburn, who will be Lord
Casselthorpe when his disreputable old uncle dies.

She hasn't yet spent what she got for introducing the Canovass prince to that oldest Elarton
girl, so if she secures this prize for Mauburn, she'll be comfortable for a couple of more
years. Perhaps I could turn my hand to something like that. I know the ropes as well as she does.

There, it is a punishment of a letter, isn't it, dear? But I've known every bad place in it,
and I've religiously put in your "Come, come, child!" every time it belonged, so you've not
still to scold me, for which be comforted a little; and give me only a few words of cheerful
approval if your conscience will let you. I need that, after all, more than advice. Look for
us in a week. With a bear-hug for you,

AVICE.

P.S. Is it true that Ned Ristine and his wife have fixed it up and are together again since
his return? Not that I'm interested especially, but I chanced to hear it gossiped the other
day here on the car. Indeed, I hope you know how thoroughly I detest that man!

CHAPTER X.

The Price of Averting a Scandal

As the train resumed speed after stopping at a station, Grant, the porter, came back to the
observation room of the Bines car with a telegram for Uncle Peter. The old man read it and
for a time mused himself into seeming oblivion. Across the car, near by, Percival lounged in
a wicker arm-chair and stared cheerfully out into the gathering night. He, too, was musing,
his thoughts keeping pleasantly in time with the rhythmic click of the wheels over the rail-joints.
After a day in the open air he was growing sleepy.

Uncle Peter aroused him by making his way back to the desk, the roll-top of which he lifted
with a sudden rattle. He called to Percival. Sitting down at the desk he read the telegram
again and handed it to the young man, who read:

"Party will try to make good; no bluff. Won't compromise inside limit set. Have seen paper
and wish another interview before following original instructions. Party will wait forty-eight
hours before acting. Where can you be seen? Wire office to-night.

"TAFE & COPLEN."

The young man looked up with mild interest. Uncle Peter was writing on a telegraph blank.

"TAFE & COPLEN, Butte, Montana.

"Due Butte 7.30 A.M. to-morrow. Join me on car nought sixteen, go to Montana City.

"PETER BINES.

"D.H.F. 742."

To the porter who answered his ring he handed the message to be put off at the first stop.

"But what's it all about?" asked Percival, seeing by Uncle Peter's manner that he was expected
to show concern.

Uncle Peter closed the desk, lighted one of his best cigars, and dropped into a capacious chair.
The young man seated himself opposite.

"Well, son, it's a matter I cal'lated first off to handle myself, but it looks now as if you
better be in on it. I don't know just how much you knew about your pa's ways, but, anyhow,
you wouldn't play him to grade much higher above standard than the run of 'em out here that
has had things comin' too easy for 'em. He was all right, Dan'l J. was. God knows I ain't discountin'
the comfort I've always took in him. He'd stand acid all right, at any stage of the game. Don't
forget that about your pa."

The young man reflected.

"The worst story I ever heard of pa was about the time he wanted to draw twenty thousand dollars
from the bank in Tacoma. They telegraphed the Butte National to wire his description, and the
answer was 'tall and drunk.'"

"Well, son, his periodicals wa'n't all. Seems as if this crowd has a way fur women, and they
generally get the gaff because they're so blamed easy. You don't hear of them Eastern big men
gettin' it so often, but I've seen enough of 'em to know it ain't because they're any straighter.
They're jest a little keener on business propositions. They draw a fine sight when it comes
to splittin' pennies, while men out here like your pa is lavish and careless. You know about
lots of the others.

"There's Sooley Pentz, good-hearted a man as ever sacked ore, and plenty long-headed enough
for the place he's bought in the Senate, but Sooley is restless until he's bought up one end
of every town he goes into, from Eden plumb over to Washington, D. C.,--and 'tain't ever the
Sunday-school end Sooley buys either. If he was makin' two million a month instead of one Sooley'd
grieve himself to death because they don't make that five-dollar kind of wine fast enough.

"Then there was Seth Larby. We're jest gettin' to the details of Seth's expense account after
he found the Lucky Cuss. I see the courts have decided against the widow and children, and
so they'll have to worry off about five or six millions for the poor lady he duped so outrageously--with
a checker on the chips.

"As fur old Nate Kranil, a lawyer from Cheyenne was tellin' me his numerous widows by courtesy
was goin' to form an association and share his leavin's pro raty. Said they'd all got kind
of acquainted and made up their minds they was such a reg'lar band of wolves that none of 'em
was able to do any of the others in the long run, so they'd divide even.

"Then there was Dave Kisber, and--"

"Never mind any more--" Percival broke in. "Do you mean that my father was mixed up like those
old Indians?"

"Looks now as if he was. That telegram from Coplen is concernin' of a lady--a party that was
with him when he died. The press report sent out that the young and beautiful Mrs. Bines was
with her husband, and was prostrated with grief. Your ma and Pishy was up to Steamin' Springs
at the time, and I kep' it from them all right."

"But how was he entangled?--to what extent?"

"That's what we'll get more light on in the morning. She made a play right after the will was
filed fur probate, and I told Coplen to see jest what grounds she had, and I'd settle myself
if she really had any and wa'n't unreasonable."

"It's just a question of blackmail, isn't it? What did you offer?"

"Well, she has a slew of letters--gettin' them is a matter of sentiment and keepin' the thing
quiet. Then she claims to have a will made last December and duly witnessed, givin' her the
One Girl outright, and a million cash. So you can see she ain't anything ordinary. I told Coplen
to offer her a million cash for everything rather'n have any fuss. I was goin' to fix it up
myself and keep quiet about it."

"And this telegram looks as if she wanted to fight."

"Well, mebbe that and mebbe it means that she knows we don't want to fight considerable more
than a million dollars' worth."

"How much do you think she'll hold out for?"

"Can't tell; you don't know how big pills she's been smokin'."

"But, damn it all, that's robbery!"

"Yes--but it's her deal. You remember when Billy Brue was playin' seven-up with a stranger
in the Two-Hump saloon over to Eden, and Chiddie Fogle the bartender called him up front and
whispered that he'd jest seen the feller turn a jack from the bottom. 'Well,' says Billie,
looking kind of reprovin' at Chiddie, 'it was his deal, wa'n't it?' Now it's sure this blond
party's deal, and we better reckon ahead a mite before we start any roughhouse with her. You're
due to find out if you hadn't better let her turn her jack and trust to gettin' even on your
deal. You got a claim staked out in New York, and a scandal like this might handicap you in
workin' it. And 'tain't as if hushin' her up was something we couldn't well afford. And think
of how it would torment your ma to know of them doin's, and how 'twould shame Pish in company.
Of course, rob'ry is rob'ry, but mebbe it's our play to be sporty like Billy Brue was."

"Pretty bad, isn't it? I never suspected pa was in anything of this sort."

"Well, I knew Dan'l J. purty well, and I spleened against some of his ways, but that's done
fur. Now the folks out in this part of the country have come to expect it from a man like him.
They don't mind so much. But them New York folks--well, I thought mebbe you'd like to take
a clean bill of health when you settle in that centre of culture and enlightenment,--and remember
your ma and Pish."

"Of course the exposure would mean a lot of cheap notoriety--"

"Well, and not so all-fired cheap at that, even if we beat. I've heard that lawyers are threatenin'
to stop this thing of workin' entirely fur their health. There's that to weigh up."

"But I hate to be done."

"Well, wouldn't you be worse done if you let a matter of money, when you're reekin' with it,
keep you from protectin' your pa's name? Do you want folks to snicker when they read that 'lovin'
husband and father' business on his gravestone? My! I guess that young woman and her folks
we met the other day'd be tickled to death to think they knew you after they'd read one of
them Sunday newspaper stories with pictures of us all, and an extry fine one of the millionaire's
dupe, basely enticed from her poor but honest millinery business in Spokane."

Percival shuddered.

"Well, let's see what Coplen has to say in the morning. If it can be settled within reason
I suppose we better give up."

"That's my view now, and the estate bein' left as simply as it was, we can make in the payments
unbeknownst to the folks."

They said good-night, and Percival went off to dream that a cab-horse of mammoth size was threatening
to eat Miss Milbrey unless he drove it to Spokane Falls and bought two million millinery shops.

When he was jolted to consciousness they were in the switching yard at Butte, and the car was
being coupled to the rear of the train made up for Montana City. He took advantage of the stop
to shave. By the time he was dressed they were under way again, steaming out past the big smelters
that palled the sky with heavy black smoke.

At the breakfast-table he found Uncle Peter and Coplen.

"I'm inclined," said the lawyer, as Percival peeled a peach, "to agree with your grandfather.
This woman--if I may use the term--is one of the nerviest leg-pullers you're ever likely to
strike."

"Lord! I should hope so," said Percival, with hearty emphasis.

"She studied your father and she knew him better than any of us, I judge. She certainly knew
he was liable to go at any time, in exactly the way he did go. Why, she even had a doctor down
from 'Frisco to Monterey when they were there about a year ago--introduced him as an old friend
and had him stay around three days--just to give her a private professional opinion on his
chances. As to this will, the signature is undoubtedly genuine, but my judgment is she procured
it in some way on a blank sheet of paper and had the will written above on sheets like it.
As it conforms to the real will word for word, excepting the bequests to her, she must have
had access to that before having this one written. Of course that helps to make it look as
if the testator had changed his mind only as to the one legatee--makes it look plausible and
genuine. The witnesses were of course parties to the fraud, but I seriously question our ability
to prove there was fraud. We think they procured a copy of the will we kept in our safe at
Butte through the clerk that Tafe fired awhile back because of his drinking habits and because
he was generally suspicious of him. Of course that's only surmise."

"But can't we fight it?" demanded Percival, hungrily attacking the crisp, brown little trout.

"Well, if we allowed it to come to a contest, we might expose the whole thing, and then again
we might not. I tell you she's clever. She's shown it at every step. Now then, if you do fight,"
and the lawyer bristled, as if his fighting spirit were not too far under the control of his
experience-born caution, "why, you have litigation that's bound to last for years, and it would
be pretty expensive. I admit the case is tempting to a lawyer, but in the end you don't know
what you'll get, especially with this woman. Why, do you know she's already, we've found, made
up to two different judges that might be interested in any litigation she'd have, and she's
cultivating others. The role of Joseph," he continued, "has never, to the best of my belief,
been gracefully played in the world's history, and you may have noticed that the members of
the Montana judiciary seem to be particularly awkward in their essays at it. In the end, then,
you'll be out a lot of money even if you win. On the other hand, you have a chance to settle
it for good and all, getting back everything--excepting the will, which, of course, we couldn't
touch or even concede the existence of, but which would, if such an instrument were extant,
be destroyed in the presence of a witness whose integrity I could rely upon--well--as upon
my own. The letters which she has, and which I have seen, are also such as would tend to substantiate
her claims and make the large bequests to her seem plausible--and they're also such letters
as--I should infer--the family would rather wish not to be made public, as they would be if
it came to trial."

"Jest what I told him," remarked Uncle Peter.

"What she'll hold out for I don't know, but I'd suggest this, that I meet her attorney and
put the case exactly as I've found it out as to the will, letting them suspect, perhaps, that
we have admissions of some sort from Hornby, the clerk, that might damage them. Then I can
put it that, while we have no doubt of our ability to dispose of the will, we do wish to avoid
the scandal that would ensue upon a publication of the letters they hold and the exposure of
her relations with the testator, and that upon this purely sentimental ground we are willing
to be bled to a reasonable extent. The One Girl is a valuable mine, but my opinion is she'll
be glad to get two million if we seem reluctant to pay that much."

With that gusto of breakfast-appetite which arouses the envy of persons whose alimentation
is not what it used to be, Percival had devoured ruddy peaches and purple grapes, trout that
had breasted their swift native currents that very morning, crisp little curls of bacon, muffins
that were mere flecks of golden foam, honey with the sweetness of a thousand fragrant blossoms,
and coffee that was oily with richness. For a time he had seemed to make no headway against
his hill-born appetite. The lawyer, who had broken his fast with a strip of dry toast and a
cup of weak tea, had watched him with unfeigned and reminiscent interest. Grant, who stood
watchful to replenish his plate, and whose pleasure it was to see him eat, regarded him with
eyes fairly dewy from sympathy. To A. L. Jackson, the cook, on a trip for hot muffins, he observed,
"He eats jes' like th' ole man. I suttin'y do love t' see that boy behave when he got his fresh
moral appetite on him. He suttin'y do ca'y hisse'f mighty handsome."

With Coplen's final recommendation to settle Percival concluded his meal, and after surveying
with fondly pleasant regret the devastation he had wrought, he leaned back in his chair and
lighted a cigar. He was no longer in a mood to counsel fight, even though he disliked to submit.

"You know," he reminded Uncle Peter, "what that editorial in the Rock Rip Champion said about
me when we were over there: 'We opine that the Junior Bines will become a warm piece of human
force if he isn't ground-sluiced too early in the game.' Well--and here I'm ground-sluiced
the first rattle out of the box."

But the lawyer went over the case again point by point, and Percival finally authorised him
to make the best settlement possible. He cared as little for the money as Uncle Peter did,
large sum though it was. And then his mother and sister would be spared a great humiliation,
and his own standing where most he prized it would not be jeopardised.

"Settle the best you can," was his final direction to Coplen. The lawyer left them at the next
station to wait for a train back to Butte.

CHAPTER XI.

How Uncle Peter Bines Once Cut Loose

As the train moved on after leaving Coplen, Percival fell to thinking of the type of man his
father had been.

"Uncle Peter," he said, suddenly, "they don't all cut loose, do they? Now you never did?"

"Yes, I did, son. I yanked away from all the hitchin' straps of decency when I first struck
it, jest like all the rest of 'em. Oh, I was an Indian in my time--a reg'ler measly hop-pickin'
Siwash at that.

"You don't know, of course, what livin' out in the open on bacon and beans does fur a healthy
man's cravin's. He gets so he has visions day and night of high-livin'--nice broiled steaks
with plenty of fat on 'em, and 'specially cake and preserves and pies like mother used to make--fat,
juicy mince pies that would assay at least eight hundred dollars a ton in raisins alone, say
nothing of the baser metals. He sees the crimp around the edges made with a fork, and the picture
of a leaf pricked in the middle to vent the steam, and he gets to smellin' 'em when they're
pulled smokin' hot out of the oven. And frosted cake, the layer kind--about five layers, with
stratas of jelly and custard and figs and raisins and whatever it might be. I saw 'em fur years,
with a big cuttin' out to show the cross-section.

"But a man that has to work by the day fur enough to take him through the prospectin' season
can't blow any of his dust on frivolous things like pie. The hard-workin' plain food is the
kind he has to tote, and I never heard of pie bein' in anybody's grub-stake either.

"Well, fur two or three years at a time the nearest I'd ever get to them dainties would be
a piece of sour-dough bread baked on a stove-lid. But whenever I was in the big camps I'd always
go look into the bake-shop windows and just gloat.--'rubber' they call it now'days. My! but
they would be beautiful. Son, if I could 'a' been guaranteed that kind of a heaven, some of
them times, I'd 'a' become the hottest kind of a Christian zealot, I'll tell you that. That
spell of gloatin' was what I always looked forward to when I was lyin' out nights.

"Well, the time before I made the strike I outfitted in Grand Bar. The bake-joint there was
jest a mortal aggravation. Sakes! but it did torment a body so! It was kep' by a Chink, and
the star play in the window was a kind of two-story cake with frostin' all over the place--on
top and down the sides, and on the bottom fur all I knew, it looked that rich. And it had cocoanut
mixed in with it. Say, now, that concrete looked fit to pave the streets of the New Jerusalem
with--and a hunk was cut out, jest like I'd always dream of so much--showin' a cross-section
of rich yellow cake and a fruity-lookin' fillin' that jest made a man want to give up.

"I was there three days, and every day I'd stop in front of that window and jest naturally
hone fur a slice of that vision. The Chink was standin' in the door the first day.

"'Six doll's,' he says, kind of enticin' me.

"He might as well 'a' said six thousand. I shook my head.

"Next day I was there again, yearnin'. The Chink see me and come out.

"'One doll' li'l piece", he says.

"I says, 'No, you slant-eyed heathen,' or some such name as that. But when you're looking fur
tests of character, son, don't let that one hide away from you. I'd play that fur the heftiest
moral courage I've ever showed, anyway.

"The third day it was gone and a lemon pie was there, all with nice kind of brownish snow on
top. I was on my way out then, pushin' the mule. I took one lingerin' last look and felt proud
of myself when I saw the hump in the pack made by my bag of beans.

"'That-like flummery food's no kind of diet to be trackin' up pay-rock on,' I says to kind
of cheer myself.

"Four weeks later I struck it. And six weeks after that I had things in shape so't I was able
to leave. I was nearer to other places 'twas bigger, but I made fur Grand Bar, lettin' on't
I wanted to see about a claim there. I'd 'a' felt foolish to have anyone know jest why I was
makin' the trip.

"On the way I got to havin' night-mares, 'fear that Chink would be gone. I knew if he was I'd
go down to my grave with something comin' to me because I'd never found jest that identical
cake I'd been famishin' fur.

"When I got up front of the window, you can believe it or not, but that Chink was jest settin'
down another like it. Now you know how that Monte Cristo carried on after he'd proved up. Well,
I got into his class, all right. I walked in past a counter where the Chink had crullers and
gingerbread and a lot of low-grade stuff like that, and I set down to a little table with this
here marble oil-cloth on it.

"'Bring her back,' I says, kind of tremblin', and pointin' to the window.

"The Chink pattered up and come back with a little slab of it on a tin plate. I jest let it
set there.

"'Bring it all,' I says; 'I want the hull ball of wax.'

"'Six doll's,' he says, kind of cautious.

"I pulled out my buckskin pouch. 'Bring her back and take it out of that,' I says--'when I
get through,' I says.

"He grinned and hurried back with it. Well, son, nothing had ever tasted so good to me, and
I ain't say'n' that wa'n't the biggest worth of all my money't I ever got. I'd been trainin'
fur that cake fur twenty odd year, and proddin' my imagination up fur the last ten weeks.

"I et that all, and I et another one with jelly, and a bunch of little round ones with frostin'
and raisins, and a bottle of brandied peaches, and about a dozen cream puffs, and half a lemon
pie with frostin' on top, and four or five Charlotte rushes. The Chink had learned to make
'em all in 'Frisco.

"That meal set me back $34.75. When I went out I noticed the plain sponge cakes and fruit cakes
and dried-apple pies--things that had been out of my reach fur twenty years, and--My! but they
did look common and unappetisin'. I kind of shivered at the sight of 'em.

"I ordered another one of the big cakes and two more lemon pies fur the next day.

"Fur four days I led a life of what they call 'unbridled licentiousness' while that Chink pandered
to me. I never was any hand fur drink, but I cut loose in that fancy-food joint, now I tell you.

"The fifth day I begun to taper off. I begun to have a suspicion the stuff was made of sawdust
with plasty of Paris fur frostin'. The sixth day I was sure it was sawdust, and my shameful
debauch comes to an end right there. I remembered the story about the feller that cal'lated
his chickens wouldn't tell any different, so he fed 'em sawdust instead of corn-meal, and by-and-bye
a settin' of eggs hatched out--twelve of the chickens had wooden legs and the thirteenth was
a woodpecker. Say, I felt so much like two cords of four-foot stove wood that it made me plumb
nervous to ketch sight of a saw-buck.

"It took jest three weeks fur me to get right inside again. My, but meat victuals and all like
that did taste mighty scrumptious when I could handle 'em again.

"After that when I'd been out in the hills fur a season I'd get that hankerin' back, and when
I come in I'd have a little frosted-cake orgy now and then. But I kep' myself purty well in
hand. I never overdone it like that again, fur you see I'd learned something. First off, there
was the appetite. I soon see the gist of my fun had been the wantin' the stuff, the appetite
fur it, and if you nursed an appetite along and deluded it with promises it would stay by you
like one of them meachin' yellow dogs. But as soon as you tried to do the good-fairy act by
it, and give it all it hankered fur, you killed it off, and then you wouldn't be entertained
by it no more, and kep' stirred up and busy.

"And so I layed out to nurse my appetite, and aggravate it by never givin' it quite all it
wanted. When I was in the hills after a day's tramp I'd let it have its fling on such delicacies
as I could turn out of the fryin'-pan myself, but when I got in again I'd begin to act bossy
with it. It's wantin' reasonably that keeps folks alive, I reckon. The mis-a-blest folks I've
ever saw was them that had killed all their wants by overfeedin' 'em.

"Then again, son, in this world of human failin's there ain't anything ever can be as pure
and blameless and satisfyin' as the stuff in a bake-shop window looks like it is. Don't ever
furget that. It's jest too good to be true. And in the next place--pastry's good in its way,
but the best you can ever get is what's made fur you at home--I'm talkin' about a lot of things
now that you don't probably know any too much about. Sometimes the boys out in the hills spends
their time dreamin' fur other things besides pies and cakes, but that system of mine holds
good all through the deal--you can play it from soda to hock and not lose out. And that's why
I'm outlastin' a lot of the boys and still gettin' my fun out of the game.

"It's a good system fur you, son, while you're learnin' to use your head. Your pa played it
at first, then he cut loose. And you need it worse'n ever he did, if I got you sized up right.
He touched me on one side, and touched you on the other. But you can last longer if you jest
keep the system in mind a little. Remember what I say about the window stuff."

Percival had listened to the old man's story with proper amusement, and to the didactics with
that feeling inevitable to youth which says secretly, as it affects to listen to one whom it
does not wish to wound, "Yes, yes, I know, but you were living in another day, long ago, and
you are not me!"

He went over to the desk and began to scribble a name on the pad of paper.

"If a man really loves one woman he'll behave all right," he observed to Uncle Peter.

"Oh, I ain't preachin' like some do. Havin' a good time is all right; it's the only thing,
I reckon, sometimes, that justifies the misery of livin'. But cuttin' loose is bad jedgment.
A man wakes up to find that his natural promptin's has cold-decked him. If I smoked the best
see-gars now all the time, purty soon I'd get so't I wouldn't appreciate 'em. That's why I
always keep some of these out-door free-burners on hand. One of them now and then makes the
others taste better."

The young man had become deaf to the musical old voice.

He was writing:

"MY DEAR MISS MILBREY:--I send you the first and only poem I ever wrote. I may of course be
a prejudiced critic, but it seems to me to possess in abundance those graces of metre, rhyme,
high thought in poetic form, and perfection of finish which the critics unite in demanding.
To be honest with you--and why should I conceal that conceit which every artist is said secretly
to feel in his own production?--I have encountered no other poem in our noble tongue which
has so moved and captivated me.

"It is but fair to warn you that this is only the first of a volume of similar poems which
I contemplate writing. And as the theme appears now to be inexhaustible, I am not sure that
I can see any limit to the number of volumes I shall be compelled to issue. Pray accept this
author's copy with his best and hopefullest wishes. One other copy has been sent to the book
reviewer of the Arcady Lyre, in the hope that he, at least, will have the wit to perceive in
it that ultimate and ideal perfection for which the humbler bards have hitherto striven in vain.

"Sincerely and seriously yours,

"P. PERCIVAL BINES"

Thus ran the exalted poem on a sheet of note-paper:

  "AVICE MILBREY.
  And ninety-eight thousand other verses quite like it."

CHAPTER XII.

Plans for the Journey East

Until late in the afternoon they rode through a land that was bleak and barren of all grace
or cheer. The dull browns and greys of the landscape were unrelieved by any green or freshness
save close by the banks of an occasional stream. The vivid blue of a cloudless sky served only
to light up its desolation to greater disadvantage. It was a grim unsmiling land, hard to like.

"This may be God's own country," said Percival once, looking out over a stretch of grey sage-brush
to a mass of red sandstone jutting up, high, sharp, and ragged, in the distance--"but it looks
to me as if He got tired of it Himself and gave up before it was half finished."

"A man has to work here a few years to love it," said Uncle Peter, shortly.

As they left the car at Montana City in the early dusk, that thriving metropolis had never
seemed so unattractive to Percival; so rough, new, garish, and wanting so many of the softening
charms of the East. Through the wide, unpaved streets, lined with their low wooden buildings,
they drove to the Bines mansion, a landmark in the oldest and most fashionable part of the
town. For such distinctions are made in Western towns as soon as the first two shanties are
built. The Bines house had been a monument to new wealth from the earliest days of the town,
which was a fairly decent antiquity for the region. But the house and the town grated harshly
now upon the young man. He burned with a fever of haste to be off toward the East--over the
far rim of hills, and the farther higher mountain range, to a land that had warmed genially
under three hundred years of civilised occupancy--where people had lived and fraternised long
enough to create the atmosphere he craved so ardently.

While Chinese Wung lighted the hall gas and busied himself with their hats and bags, Psyche
Bines came down the stairs to greet them. Never had her youthful freshness so appealed to her
brother. The black gown she wore emphasised her blond beauty. As to give her the aspect of
mourning one might have tried as reasonably to hide the radiance of the earth in springtime
with that trifling pall.

Her brother kissed her with more than his usual warmth. Here was one to feel what he felt,
to sympathise warmly with all those new yearnings that were to take him out of the crude West.
She wanted, for his own reasons, all that he wanted. She understood him; and she was his ally
against the aged and narrow man who would have held them to life in that physical and social
desert.

"Well, sis, here we are!" he began. "How fine you're looking! And how is Mrs. Throckmorton?
Give her my love and ask her if she can be ready to start for the effete East in twenty minutes."

It was his habit to affect that he constantly forgot his mother's name. He had discovered years
before that he was sometimes able thus to puzzle her momentarily.

"Why, Percival!" exclaimed this excellent lady, coming hurriedly from the kitchen regions,
"I haven't a thing packed. Twenty minutes! Goodness! I do declare!"

It was an infirmity of Mrs. Bines that she was unable to take otherwise than literally whatever
might be said to her; an infirmity known and played upon relentlessly by her son.

"Oh, well!" he exclaimed, with a show of irritation. "I suppose we'll be delayed then. That's
like a woman. Never ready on time. Probably we can't start now till after dinner. Now hurry!
You know that boat leaves the dock for Tonsilitis at 8.23--I hope you won't be seasick."

"Boat--dock--" Mrs. Bines stopped to convince herself beyond a certainty that no dock nor boat
could be within many hundred miles of her by any possible chance.

"Never mind," said Psyche; "give ma half an hour's notice and she can start for any old place."

"Can't she though!" and Percival, seizing his astounded mother, waltzed with her down the hall,
leaving her at the far end with profusely polite assurances that he would bring her immediately
a lemon-ice, an ice-pick, and a cold roast turkey with pink stockings on.

"Never mind, Mrs. Cartwright," he called back to her--"oh, beg pardon--Bines? yes, yes, to
be sure--well, never mind, Mrs. Brennings. We'll give you time to put your gloves and a bottle
of horse-radish and a nail-file and hammer into that neat travelling-bag of yours.

"Now let me go up and get clean again. That lovely alkali dust has worked clear into my bearings
so I'm liable to have a hot box just as we get the line open ninety miles ahead."

At dinner and afterwards the new West and the old aligned themselves into hostile camps, as
of yore. The young people chatted with lively interest of the coming change, of the New York
people who had visited the mine, of the attractions and advantages of life in New York.

Uncle Peter, though he had long since recognised his cause as lost, remained doggedly inimical
to the migration. The home was being broken up and he was depressed.

"Anyhow, you'll soon be back," he warned them. "You won't like it a mite. I tried it myself
thirty years ago. I'll jest camp here until you do come back. My! but you'll be glad to get
here again."

"Why not have Billy Brue come stay with you," suggested Mrs. Bines, who was hurting herself
with pictures of the old man's loneliness, "in case you should want a plaster on your back
or some nutmeg tea brewed, or anything? That Wung is so trifling."

"Maybe I might," replied the old man, "but Billy Brue ain't exactly broke to a shack like this.
I know just what he'd do all his spare time; he'd set down to that new-fangled horseless piano
and play it to death."

Uncle Peter meant the new automatic piano in the parlour. As far as the new cabinet was from
the what-not this modern bit of mechanism was from the old cottage organ--the latter with its
"Casket of Household Melodies" and the former with its perforated paper repertoire of "The
World's Best Music," ranging without prejudice from Beethoven's Fifth Symphony to "I Never
Did Like a Nigger Nohow," by a composer who shall be unnamed on this page.

"And Uncle Peter won't have any one to bother him when he makes a litter with all those old
plans and estimates and maps of his," said Psyche; "you'll be able to do a lot more work, Uncle
Peter, this winter."

"Yes, only I ain't got any more work to do than I ever had, and I always managed to do that,
no matter how you did clean up after me and mix up my papers. I'm like old Nigger Pomeroy.
He was doin' a job of whitewashin' one day, and he had an old whitewash brush with most of
the hair gone out of it. I says to him, 'Pomeroy, why don't you get you a new brush? you could
do twice as much work.' And Pomeroy says, 'That's right, Mr. Bines, but the trouble is I ain't
got twice as much work to do.' So don't you folks get out on my account," he concluded, politely.

"And you know we shall be in mourning," said Psyche to her brother.

"I've thought of that. We can't do any entertaining, except of the most informal kind, and
we can't go out, except very informally; but, then, you know, there aren't many people that
have us on their lists, and while we're keeping quiet we shall have a chance to get acquainted
a little."

"I hear they do have dreadful times with help in New York," said Mrs. Bines.

"Don't let that bother you, ma," her son reassured her. "We'll go to the Hightower Hotel, first.
You remember you and pa were there when it first opened. It's twice as large now, and we'll
take a suite, have our meals served privately, our own servants provided by the hotel, and
you won't have a thing to worry you. We'll be snug there for the winter. Then for the summer
we'll go to Newport, and when we come back from there we'll take a house. Meantime, after we've
looked around a bit, we'll build, maybe up on one of those fine corners east of the Park."

"I almost dread it," his mother rejoined. "I never did see how they kept track of all the help
in that hotel, and if it's twice as monstrous now, however do they do it--and have the beds
all made every day and the meals always on time?"

"And you can get meals there," said Percival.

"I've been needing a broiled lobster all summer--and now the oysters will be due--fine fat
Buzzard's Bays--and oyster crabs."

"He ain't been able to touch a morsel out here," observed Uncle Peter, with a palpably false
air of concern. "I got all worried up about him, barely peckin' at a crumb or two."

"I never could learn to eat those oysters out of their shells," Mrs. Bines confessed. "They
taste so much better out of the can. Once we had them raw and on two of mine were those horrid
little green crabs, actually squirming. I was going to send them back, but your pa laughed
and ate them himself--ate them alive and kicking."

"And terrapin!" exclaimed Percival, with anticipatory relish.

"That terrapin stew does taste kind of good," his mother admitted, "but, land's sakes! it has
so many little bits of bones in it I always get nervous eating it. It makes me feel as if all
my teeth was coming out."

"You'll soon learn all those things, ma," said her daughter--"and not to talk to the waiters,
and everything like that. She always asks them how much they earn, and if they have a family,
and how many children, and if any of them are sick, you know," she explained to Percival.

"And I s'pose you ain't much of a hand fur smokin' cigarettes, are you, ma?" inquired Uncle
Peter, casually.

"Me!" exclaimed Mrs. Bines, in horror; "I never smoked one of the nasty little things in my life."

"Son," said the old man to Percival, reproachfully, "is that any way to treat your own mother?
Here she's had all this summer to learn cigarette smokin', and you ain't put her at it--all
that time wasted, when you know she's got to learn. Get her one now so she can light up."

"Why, Uncle Peter Bines, how absurd!" exclaimed his granddaughter.

"Well, them ladies smoked the other day, and they was some of the reg'ler original van Vanvans.
You don't want your poor ma kep' out of the game, do you? Goin' to let her set around and toy
with the coppers, or maybe keep cases now and then, are you? Or, you goin' to get her a stack
of every colour and let her play with you? Pish, now, havin' been to a 'Frisco seminary--she
can pick it up, prob'ly in no time; but ma ought to have practice here at home, so she can
find out what brand she likes best. Now, Marthy, them Turkish cigarettes, in a nice silver
box with some naked ladies painted on the outside, and your own monogram 'M.B.' in gold letters
on every cigarette--"

"Don't let him scare you, ma," Percival interrupted. "You'll get into the game all right, and
I'll see that you have a good time."

"Only I hope the First M.E. Church of Montana City never hears of her outrageous cuttin's-up,"
said Uncle Peter, as if to himself. "They'd have her up and church her, sure--smokin' cigarettes
with her gold monogram on, at her age!" "And of course we must go to the Episcopal church there,"
said Psyche. "I think those Episcopal ministers are just the smartest looking men ever. So
swell looking, and anyway it's the only church the right sort of people go to. We must be awfully
high church, too. It's the very best way to know nice people."

"I s'pose if every day'd be Sunday by-and-bye, like the old song says, it'd be easier fur you,
wouldn't it?" asked the old man. "You and Petie would be 401 and 402 in jest no time at all."

Uncle Peter continued to be perversely frivolous about the most exclusive metropolitan society
in the world. But Uncle Peter was a crabbed old man, lingering past his generation, and the
young people made generous allowance for his infirmities.

"Only there's one thing," said his sister to Percival, when later they were alone, "we must
be careful about ma; she will persist in making such dreadful breaks, in spite of everything
I can do. In San Francisco last June, just before we went to Steaming Springs, there was one
hot day, and of course everybody was complaining. Mrs. Beale remarked that it wasn't the heat
that bothered us so, but the humidity. It was so damp, you know. Ma spoke right up so everybody
could hear her, and said, 'Yes; isn't the humidity dreadful? Why, it's just running off me
from every pore!'"

CHAPTER XIII.

The Argonauts Return to the Rising Sun

It was mid-October. The two saddle-horses and a team for carriage use had been shipped ahead.
In the private car the little party was beginning its own journey Eastward. From the rear platform
they had watched the tall figure of Uncle Peter Bines standing in the bright autumn sun, aloof
from the band of kerchief-waving friends, the droop of his head and shoulders showing the dejection
he felt at seeing them go. He had resisted all entreaties to accompany them.

His last injunction to Percival had been to marry early.

"I know your stock and I know you" he said; "and you got no call to be rangin' them pastures
without a brand. You never was meant fur a maverick. Only don't let the first woman that comes
ridin' herd get her iron on you. No man knows much about the critters, of course, but I've
noticed a few things in my time. You pick one that's full-chested, that's got a fairish-sized
nose, and that likes cats. The full chest means she's healthy, the nose means she ain't finicky,
and likin' cats means she's kind and honest and unselfish. Ever notice some women when a cat's
around? They pretend to like 'em and say 'Nice kitty!' but you can see they're viewin' 'em
with bitter hate and suspicion. If they have to stroke 'em they do it plenty gingerly and you
can see 'em shudderin' inside like. It means they're catty themselves. But when one grabs a
cat up as if she was goin' to eat it and cuddles it in her neck and talks baby-talk to it,
you play her fur bein' sound and true. Pass up the others, son.

"And speakin' of the fair sex," he added, as he and Percival were alone for a moment, "that
enterprisin' lady we settled with is goin' to do one thing you'll approve of.

"She's goin'," he continued, in answer to Percival's look of inquiry, "to take her bank-roll
to New York. She says it's the only place fur folks with money, jest like you say. She tells
Coplen that there wa'n't any fit society out here at all,--no advantages fur a lady of capacity
and ambitions. I reckon she's goin' to be 403 all right."

"Seems to me she did pretty well here; I don't see any kicks due her."

"Yes, but she's like all the rest. The West was good enough to make her money in, but the East
gets her when spendin' time comes."

As the train started he swung himself off with a sad little "Be good to yourself!"

"Thank the Lord we're under way at last!" cried Percival, fervently, when the group at the
station had been shut from view. "Isn't it just heavenly!" exclaimed his sister.

"Think of having all of New York you want--being at home there--and not having to look forward
to this desolation of a place."

Mrs. Bines was neither depressed nor elated. She was maintaining that calm level of submission
to fate which had been her lifelong habit. The journey and the new life were to be undertaken
because they formed for her the line of least resistance along which all energy must flow.
Had her children elected to camp for the remainder of their days in the centre of the desert
of Gobi, she would have faced that life with as little sense of personal concern and with no
more misgivings.

Down out of the maze of hills the train wound; and then by easy grades after two days of travel
down off the great plateau to where the plains of Nebraska lay away to a far horizon in brown
billows of withered grass.

Then came the crossing of the sullen, sluggish Missouri, that highway of an earlier day to
the great Northwest; and after that the better wooded and better settled lands of Iowa and
Illinois.

"Now we're getting where Christians live," said Percival, with warm appreciation.

"Why, Percival," exclaimed his mother, reprovingly, "do you mean to say there aren't any Christians
in Montana City? How you talk! There are lots of good Christian people there, though I must
say I have my doubts about that new Christian Science church they started last spring." "The
term, Mrs. Thorndike, was used in its social rather than its theological significance," replied
her son, urbanely. "Far be it from me to impugn the religion of that community of which we
are ceasing to be integers at the pleasing rate of sixty miles an hour. God knows they need
their faith in a different kind of land hereafter!"

And even Mrs. Bines was not without a sense of quiet and rest induced by the gentler contours
of the landscape through which they now sped.

"The country here does seem a lot cosier," she admitted.

The hills rolled away amiably and reassuringly; the wooded slopes in their gay colouring of
autumn invited confidence. Here were no forbidding stretches of the grey alkali desert, no
grim bare mountains, no solitude of desolation. It was a kind land, fat with riches. The shorn
yellow fields, the capacious red barns, the well-conditioned homes, all told eloquently of
peace and plenty. So, too, did the villages--those lively little clearing-houses for immense
farming districts. To the adventurer from New York they seem always new and crude. To our travellers
from a newer, cruder region they were actually aesthetic in their suggestions of an old and
well-established civilisation.

In due time they were rattling over a tangled maze of switches, dodging interminable processions
of freight-cars, barely missing crowded passenger trains whose bells struck clear and then
flatted as the trains flew by; defiling by narrow water-ways, crowded with small shipping;
winding through streets lined with high, gloomy warehouses, amid the clang and clatter, the
strangely-sounding bells and whistles of a thousand industries, each sending up its just contribution
of black smoke to the pall that lay always spread above; and steaming at last into a great
roomy shed where all was system, and where the big engine trembled and panted as if in relief
at having run in safety a gantlet so hazardous.

"Anyway, I'd rather live in Montana City than Chicago," ventured Mrs. Bines.

"Whatever pride you may feel in your discernment, Mrs. Cadwallader, is amply justified," replied
her son, performing before the amazed lady a bow that indicated the lowest depths of slavish
deference.

"I am now," he continued, "going out to pace the floor of this locomotive-boudoir for a few
exhilarating breaths of smoke, and pretend to myself that I've got to live in Chicago for ever.
A little discipline like that is salutary to keep one from forgetting the great blessing which
a merciful Providence has conferred upon one."

"I'll walk a bit with you," said his sister, donning her jacket and a cap.

"Lest my remarks have seemed indeterminate, madam," sternly continued Percival at the door
of the car, "permit me to add that if Chicago were heaven I should at once enter upon a life
of crime. Do not affect to misunderstand me, I beg of you. I should leave no avenue of salvation
open to my precious soul. I should incur no risk of being numbered among the saved. I should
be b-a-d, and I should sit up nights to invent new ways of evil. If I had any leisure left
from being as wicked as I could be, I should devote it to teaching those I loved how to become
abandoned. I should doubtless issue a pamphlet, 'How to Merit Perdition Without a Master. Learn
to be Wicked in your Own Home in Ten Lessons. Instructions Sent Securely Sealed from Observation.
Thousands of Testimonials from the Most Accomplished Reprobates of the Day.' I trust Mrs. Llewellen
Leffingwell-Thompson, that you will never again so far forget yourself as to utter that word
'Chicago' in my presence. If you feel that you must give way to the evil impulse, go off by
yourself and utter the name behind the protection of closed doors--where this innocent girl
cannot hear you. Come, sister. Otherwise I may behave in a manner to be regretted in my calmer
moments. Let us leave the woman alone, now. Besides, I've got to go out and help the hands
make up that New York train. You never can tell. Some horrible accident might happen to delay
us here thirty minutes. Cheer up, ma; it's always darkest just before leaving Chicago, you know."

Thus flippantly do some of the younger sons of men blaspheme this metropolis of the mid-West--a
city the creation of which is, by many persons of discrimination, held to be the chief romance
and abiding miracle of the nineteenth century. Let us rejoice that one such partisan was now
at hand to stem the torrent of abuse. As Percival held back the door for his sister to pass
out, a stout little ruddy-faced man with trim grey sidewhiskers came quickly up the steps and
barred their way with cheery aggressiveness.

"Ah! Mr. Higbee--well, well!" exclaimed Percival, cordially.

"Thought it might be some of you folks when I saw the car," said Higbee, shaking hands all around.

"And Mrs. Bines, too! and the girl, looking like a Delaware peach when the crop's 'failed.'
How's everybody, and how long you going to be in the good old town?"

"Ah! we were just speaking of Chicago as you came in," said Percival, blandly. "Isn't she a
great old town, though--a wonder!"

"My boy," said Higbee, in low, solemn tones that came straight from his heart, "she gets greater
every day you live. You can see her at it, fairly. How long since you been here?"

"I came through last June, you know, after I left your yacht at Newport."

"Yes, yes; to be sure; so you did--poor Daniel J.--but say, you wouldn't know the town now
if you haven't seen it since then. Why, I run over from New York every thirty days or so and
she grows out of my ken every time, like a five-year-old boy. Say, I've got Mrs. Higbee up
in the New York sleeper, but if you're going to be here a spell we'll stop a few days longer
and I'll drive you around--what say?--packing houses--Lake Shore Drive--Lincoln Park--"

He waited, glowing confidently, as one submitting irresistible temptations.

Percival beamed upon him with moist eyes.

"By Jove, Mr. Higbee! that's clever of you--it's royal! Sis and I would like nothing better--but
you see my poor mother here is almost down with nervous prostration and we've got to hurry
her to New York without an hour's delay to consult a specialist. We're afraid"--he glanced
anxiously at the astounded Mrs. Bines, and lowered his voice--"we're afraid she may not be
with us long."

"Why, Percival," began Mrs. Bines, dazedly, "you was just saying--"

"Now don't fly all to pieces, ma!--take it easy--you're with friends, be sure of that. You
needn't beg us to go on. You know we wouldn't think of stopping when it may mean life or death
to you. You see just the way she is," he continued to the sympathetic Higbee--"we're afraid
she may collapse any moment. So we must wait for another time; but I'll tell you what you do;
go get Mrs. Higbee and your traps and come let us put you up to New York. We've got lots of
room--run along now--and we'll have some of that ham, 'the kind you have always bought,' for
lunch. A.L. Jackson is a miserable cook, too, if I don't know the truth." Gently urging Higbee
through the door, he stifled a systematic inquiry into the details of Mrs. Bines's affliction.

"Come along quick! I'll go help you and we'll have Mrs. Higbee back before the train starts."

"Do you know," Mrs. Bines thoughtfully observed to her daughter, "I sometimes mistrust Percival
ain't just right in his head; you remember he did have a bad fall on it when he was two years
and five months old--two years, five months, and eighteen days. The way he carries on right
before folks' faces! That time I went through the asylum at Butte there was a young man kept
going on with the same outlandish rigmarole just like Percival. The idea of Percival telling
me to eat a lemon-ice with an ice-pick, and 'Oh, why don't the flesh-brushes wear nice, proper
clothes-brushes!' and be sure and hammer my nails good and hard after I get them manicured.
And back home he was always wanting to know where the meat-augers were, saying he'd just bought
nine hundred new ones and he'd have to order a ton more if they were all lost. I don't believe
there is such a thing as a meat-auger. I don't know what on earth a body could do with one.
And that other young man," she concluded, significantly, "they had him in a little bit of a
room with an iron-barred door to it like a prison-cell."

CHAPTER XIV.

Mr. Higbee Communicates Some Valuable Information

The Higbees were presently at home in the Bines car. Mrs. Higbee was a pleasant, bustling,
plump little woman, sparkling-eyed and sprightly. Prominent in her manner was a helpless little
confession of inadequacy to her ambitions that made her personality engaging. To be energetic
and friendly, and deeply absorbed in people who were bold and confident, was her attitude.

She began bubbling at once to Mrs. Bines and Psyche of the latest fashions for mourners. Crepe
was more swagger than ever before, both as trimming and for entire costumes.

"House gowns, my dear, and dinner gowns, made entirely of crepe in the Princesse style, will
exactly suit your daughter--and on the dinner gowns she can wear a trimming of that dull jet
passementerie."

From gowns she went naturally to the difficulty of knowing whom to meet in a city like New
York--and how to meet them--and the watchfulness required to keep daughter Millie from becoming
entangled with leading theatrical gentlemen. Amid Percival's lamentations that he must so soon
leave Chicago, the train moved slowly out of the big shed to search in the interwoven puzzle
of tracks for one that led to the East.

As they left the centre of the city Higbee drew Percival to one of the broad side windows.

"Pull up your chair and sit here a minute," he said, with a mysterious little air of importance.
"There's a thing this train's going to pass right along here that I want you to look at. Maybe
you've seen better ones, of course--and then again--"

It proved to be a sign some twenty feet high and a whole block long. Emblazoned upon its broad
surface was "Higbee's Hams." At one end and towering another ten feet or so above the mammoth
letters was a white-capped and aproned chef abandoning his mercurial French temperament to
an utter frenzy of delight over a "Higbee's Ham" which had apparently just been vouchsafed
to him by an invisible benefactor.

"There, now!" exclaimed Higbee; "what do you call that--I want to know--hey?"

"Great! Magnificent!" cried Percival, with the automatic and ready hypocrisy of a sympathetic
nature. "That certainly is great."

"Notice the size of it?" queried Higbee, when they had flitted by.

"Did I!" exclaimed the young man, reproachfully.

"We went by pretty fast--you couldn't see it well. I tell you the way they're allowed to run
trains so fast right here in this crowded city is an outrage. I'm blamed if I don't have my
lawyer take it up with the Board of Aldermen--slaughtering people on their tracks right and
left--you'd think these railroad companies owned the earth--But that sign, now. Did you notice
you could read every letter in the label on that ham? You wouldn't think it was a hundred yards
back from the track, would you? Why, that label by actual measure is six feet, four inches
across--and yet it looks as small--and everything all in the right proportion, it's wonderful.
It's what I call art," he concluded, in a slightly dogmatic tone.

"Of course it's art," Percival agreed; "er--all--hand-painted, I suppose?"

"Sure! that painting alone, letters and all, cost four hundred and fifty dollars. I've just
had it put up. I've been after that place for years, but it was held on a long lease by Max,
the Square Tailor--you know. You probably remember the sign he had there--'Peerless Pants Worn
by Chicago's Best Dressers' with a man in his shirt sleeves looking at a new pair. Well, finally,
I got a chance to buy those two back lots, and that give me the site, and there she is, all
finished and up. That's partly what I come on this time to see about. How'd you like the wording
of that sign?"

"Fine--simple and effective," replied Percival.

"That's it--simple and effective. It goes right to the point and it don't slop over beyond
any, after it gets there. We studied a good deal over that sign. The other man, the tailor,
had too many words for the board space. My advertisin' man wanted it to be, first, 'Higbee's
Hams, That's All.' But, I don't know--for so big a space that seemed to me kind of--well--kind
of flippant and undignified. Then I got it down to 'Eat Higbee's Hams.' That seemed short enough--but
after studying it, I says, What's the use of saying 'eat'? No one would think, I says, that
a ham is to paper the walls with or to stuff sofa-cushions with--so off comes 'eat' as being
superfluous, and leaving it simple and dignified--'Higbee's Hams.'"

"By the way," said Percival, when they were sitting together again, later in the day, "where
is Henry, now?"

Higbee chuckled.

"That's the other thing took me back this time--the new sign and getting Hank started. Henry
is now working ten hours a day out to the packinghouse. After a year of that, he'll be taken
into the office and his hours will be cut down to eight. Eight hours a day will seem like sinful
idleness to Henry by that time."

Percival whistled in amazement.

"I thought you'd be surprised. But the short of it is, Henry found himself facing work or starvation.
He didn't want to starve a little bit, and he finally concluded he'd rather work for his dad
than any one else.

"You see Henry was doing the Rake's Progress act there in New York--being a gilded youth and
such like. Now being a gilded youth and 'a well-known man about town' is something that wants
to be done in moderation, and Henry didn't seem to know the meaning of the word. I put up something
like a hundred and eighty thousand dollars for Hank's gilding last year. Not that I grudged
him the money, but it wasn't doing him any good. He was making a monkey of himself with it,
Henry was. A good bit of that hundred and eighty went into a comic opera company that was one
of the worst I ever did see. Henry had no judgment. He was too easy. Well, along this summer
he was on the point of making a break that would--well, I says to him, says I, 'Hank, I'm no
penny-squeezer; I like good stretchy legs myself,' I says; 'I like to see them elastic so they'll
give a plenty when they're pulled; but,' I says, 'if you take that step,' I says, 'if you declare
yourself, then the rubber in your legs,' I says, 'will just naturally snap; you'll find you've
overplayed the tension,' I says, 'and there won't be any more stretch left in them.'

"The secret is, Hank was being chased by a whole family of wolves--that's the gist of it--fortune-hunters--with
tushes like the ravening lion in Afric's gloomy jungle. They were not only cold, stone broke,
mind you, but hyenas into the bargain--the father and the mother and the girl, too.

"They'd got their minds made up to marry the girl to a good wad of money--and they'll do it,
too, sooner or later, because she's a corker for looks, all right--and they'd all made a dead
set for Hank; so, quick as I saw how it was, I says, 'Here,' I says, 'is where I save my son
and heir from a passel of butchers,' I says, 'before they have him scalded and dressed and
hung up outside the shop for the holiday trade,' I says, 'with the red paper rosettes stuck
in Henry's chest,' I says."

"Are the New York girls so designing?" asked Percival.

"Is Higbee's ham good to eat?" replied Higbee, oracularly.

"So," he continued, "when I made up my mind to put my foot down I just casually mentioned to
the old lady--say, she's got an eye that would make liquid air shiver--that cold blue like
an army overcoat--well, I mentioned to her that Henry was a spendthrift and that he wasn't
ever going to get another cent from me that he didn't earn just the same as if he wasn't any
relation of mine. I made it plain, you bet; she found just where little Henry-boy stood with
his kind-hearted, liberal old father.

"Say, maybe Henry wasn't in cold storage with the whole family from that moment. I see those
fellows in the laboratories are puttering around just now trying to get the absolute zero of
temperature--say, Henry got it, and he don't know a thing about chemistry.

"Then I jounced Hank. I proceeded to let him know he was up against it--right close up against
it, so you couldn't see daylight between 'em. 'You're twenty-five,' I says, 'and you play the
best game of pool, I'm told, of any of the chappies in that Father-Made-the-Money club you
got into,' I says; 'but I've looked it up,' I says, 'and there ain't really what you could
call any great future for a pool champion,' I says, 'and if you're ever going to learn anything
else, it's time you was at it,' I says. 'Now you go back home and tell the manager to set you
to work,' I says, 'and your wages won't be big enough to make you interesting to any skirt-dancer,
either,' I says. 'And you make a study of the hog from the ground up. Exhaust his possibilities
just like your father done, and make a man of yourself, and then sometime,' I says, 'you'll
be able to give good medicine to a cub of your own when he needs it.'"

"And how did poor Henry take all that?"

"Well, Hank squealed at first like he was getting the knife; but finally when he see he was
up against it, and especially when he see how this girl and her family throwed him down the
elevator-shaft from the tenth story, why, he come around beautifully. He's really got sense,
though he doesn't look it--Henry has--though Lord knows I didn't pull him up a bit too quick.
But he come out and went to work like I told him. It's the greatest thing ever happened to
him. He ain't so fat-headed as he was, already. Henry'll be a man before his dad's through
with him."

"But weren't the young people disappointed?" asked Percival; "weren't they in love with each
other?"

"In love?" In an effort to express scorn adequately Mr. Higbee came perilously near to snorting.
"What do you suppose a girl like that cares for love? She was dead in love with the nice long
yellow-backs that I've piled up because the public knows good ham when they taste it. As for
being in love with Henry or with any man--say, young fellow, you've got something to learn
about those New York girls. And this one, especially. Why, it's been known for the three years
we've been there that she's simply hunting night and day for a rich husband. She tries for
'em all as fast as they get in line."

"Henry was unlucky in finding that kind. They're not all like that--those New York girls are
not," and he had the air of being able if he chose to name one or two luminous exceptions.

"Silas," called Mrs. Higbee, "are you telling Mr. Bines about our Henry and that Milbrey girl?"

"Yep," answered Higbee, "I told him."

"About what girl?--what was her name?" asked Percival, in a lower tone.

"Milbrey's that family's name--Horace Milbrey--"

"Why," Percival interrupted, somewhat awkwardly, "I know the family--the young lady--we met
the family out in Montana a few weeks ago."

"Sure enough--they were in Chicago and had dinner with us on their way out." "I remember Mr.
Milbrey spoke of what fine claret you gave him."

"Yes, and I wasn't stingy with ice, either, the way those New York people always are. Why,
at that fellow's house he gives you that claret wine as warm as soup.

"But as for that girl," he added, "say, she'd marry me in a minute if I wasn't tied up with
the little lady over there. Of course she'd rather marry a sub-treasury; she's got about that
much heart in her--cold-blooded as a German carp. She'd marry me--she'd marry you, if you was
the best thing in sight. But say, if you was broke, she'd have about as much use for you as
Chicago's got for St. Louis."

CHAPTER XV.

Some Light With a Few Side-lights

The real spring in New York comes when blundering nature has painted the outer wilderness for
autumn. What is called "spring" in the city by unreflecting users of the word is a tame, insipid
season yawning into not more than half-wakefulness at best. The trees in the gas-poisoned soil
are slow in their greening, the grass has but a pallid city vitality, and the rows of gaudy
tulips set out primly about the fountains in the squares are palpably forced and alien.

For the sumptuous blending and flaunt of colour, the spontaneous awakening of warm, throbbing
new life, and all those inspiring miracles of regeneration which are performed elsewhere in
April and May, the city-pent must wait until mid-October.

This is the spring of the city's year. There be those to hint captiously that they find it
an affair of false seeming; that the gorgeous colouring is a mere trick of shop-window cunning;
that the time is juiceless and devoid of all but the specious delights of surface. Yet these,
perhaps, are unduly imaginative for a world where any satisfaction is held by a tenure precarious
at best. And even these carpers, be they never so analytical, can at least find no lack of
springtime fervour in the eager throngs that pass entranced before the window show. They, the
free-swinging, quick-moving men and women--the best dressed of all throngs in this young world--sun-browned,
sun-enlivened, recreated to a fine mettle for enjoyment by their months of mountain or ocean
sport--these are, indeed, the ones for whom this afterspring is made to bloom. And, since they
find it to be a shifting miracle of perfections, how are they to be quarrelled with?

In the big polished windows waxen effigies of fine ladies, gracefully patient, display the
latest dinner-gown from Paris, or the creamiest of be-ribboned tea-gowns. Or they pose in attitudes
of polite adieux and greeting, all but smothered in a king's ransom of sable and ermine. Or,
to the other extreme, they complacently permit themselves to be observed in the intimate revelations
of Parisian lingerie, with its misty froth of embroideries, its fine-spun webs of foamy lace.

In another window, behold a sprightly and enlivening ballet of shapely silken hosiery, fitting
its sculptured models to perfection, ranging in tints from the first tender green of spring
foliage to the rose-pink of the spring sun's after-glow.

A few steps beyond we may study a window where the waxen ladies have been dismembered. Yet
a second glance shows the retained portions to be all that woman herself considers important
when she tries on the bird-toque or the picture hat, or the gauze confection for afternoons.
The satisfied smiles of these waxen counterfeits show them to have been amply recompensed,
with the headgear, for their physical incompleteness.

But if these terraces of colour and grace that line the sides of this narrow spring valley
be said to contain only the dry husks of adornment, surely there may be found others more technically
springlike.

Here in this broad window, foregathered in a congress of colours designed to appetise, are
the ripe fruits of every clime and every season: the Southern pomegranate beside the hardy
Northern apple, scarlet and yellow; the early strawberry and the late ruddy peach; figs from
the Orient and pines from the Antilles; dates from Tunis and tawny persimmons from Japan; misty
sea-green grapes and those from the hothouse--tasteless, it is true, but so lordly in their
girth, and royal purple; portly golden oranges and fat plums; pears of mellow blondness and
pink-skinned apricots. Here at least is the veritable stuff and essence of spring with all
its attending aromas--of more integrity, perhaps, than the same colourings simulated by the
confectioner's craft, in the near-by window-display of impossible sweets.

And still more of this belated spring will gladden the eye in the florist's window. In June
the florist's shop is a poor place, sedulously to be shunned. Nothing of note blooms there
then. The florist himself is patently ashamed of himself. The burden of sustaining his traditions
he puts upon a few dejected shrubs called "hardy perennials" that have to labour the year around.
All summer it is as if the place feared to compete with nature when colour and grace flower
so cheaply on every southern hillside. But now its glories bloom anew, and its superiority
over nature becomes again manifest. Now it assembles the blossoms of a whole long year to bewilder
and allure. Its windows are shaded glens, vine-embowered, where spring, summer, and autumn
blend in all their regal and diverse abundance; and the closing door of the shop fans out odours
as from a thousand Persian gardens.

But spring is not all of life, nor what at once chiefly concerns us. There are people to be
noted: a little series of more or less related phenomena to be observed.

One of the people, a young man, stands conveniently before this same florist's window, at that
hour when the sun briefly flushes this narrow canon of Broadway from wall to wall.

He had loitered along the lively highway an hour or more, his nerves tingling responsively
to all its stimuli. And now he mused as he stared at the tangled tracery of ferns against the
high bank of wine-red autumn foliage, the royal cluster of white chrysanthemums and the big
jar of American Beauties.

He had looked forward to this moment, too--when he should enter that same door and order at
least an armful of those same haughty roses sent to an address his memory cherished. Yet now,
the time having come, the zest for the feat was gone. It would be done; it were ungraceful
not to do it, after certain expressions; but it would be done with no heart because of the
certain knowledge that no one--at least no one to be desired--could possibly care for him,
or consider him even with interest for anything but his money--the same kind of money Higbee
made by purveying hams--"and she wouldn't care in the least whether it was mine or Higbee's,
so there was a lot of it."

Yet he stepped in and ordered the roses, nor did the florist once suspect that so lavish a
buyer of flowers could be a prey to emotions of corroding cynicism toward the person for whom
they were meant.

From the florist's he returned directly to the hotel to find his mother and Psyche making homelike
the suite to which they had been assigned. A maid was unpacking trunks under his sister's supervision.
Mrs. Bines was in converse with a person of authoritative manner regarding the service to be
supplied them. Two maids would be required, and madame would of course wish a butler--

Mrs. Bines looked helplessly at her son who had just entered.

"I think--we've--we've always did our own buttling," she faltered.

The person was politely interested.

"I'll attend to these things, ma," said Percival, rather suddenly. "Yes, we'll want a butler
and the two maids, and see that the butler knows his business, please, and--here--take this,
and see that we're properly looked after, will you?"

As the bill bore a large "C" on its face, and the person was rather a gentleman anyway, this
unfortunate essay at irregular conjugation never fell into a certain class of anecdotes which
Mrs. Bines's best friends could now and then bring themselves to relate of her.

But other matters are forward. We may next overtake two people who loiter on this bracing October
day down a leaf-strewn aisle in Central Park.

"You," said the girl of the pair, "least of all men can accuse me of lacking heart."

"You are cold to me now."

"But look, think--what did I offer--you've had my trust,--everything I could bring myself to
give you. Look what I would have sacrificed at your call. Think how I waited and longed for
that call."

"You know how helpless I was."

"Yes, if you wanted more than my bare self. I should have been helpless, too, if I had wanted
more than--than you."

"It would have been folly--madness--that way."

"Folly--madness? Do you remember the 'Sonnet of Revolt' you sent me? Sit on this bench; I wish
to say it over to you, very slowly; I want you to hear it while you keep your later attitude
in mind.

"Life--what is life? To do without avail The decent ordered tasks of every day: Talk with the
sober: join the solemn play: Tell for the hundredth time the self-same tale Told by our grandsires
in the self-same vale Where the sun sets with even, level ray, And nights, eternally the same,
make way For hueless dawns, intolerably pale--'"

"But I know the verse."

"No; hear it out;--hear what you sent me:

  "'And this is life? Nay, I would rather see
  The man who sells his soul in some wild cause:
  The fool who spurns, for momentary bliss,
  All that he was and all he thought to be:
  The rebel stark against his country's laws:
  God's own mad lover, dying on a kiss.'"

She had completed the verse with the hint of a sneer in her tones.

"Yes, truly, I remember it; but some day you'll thank me for saving you; of course it would
have been regular in a way, but people here never really forget those things--and we'd have
been helpless--some day you'll thank me for thinking for you."

"Why do you believe I'm not thanking you already?"

"Hang it all! that's what you made me think yesterday when I met you." "And so you called me
heartless? Now tell me just what you expect a woman in my position to do. I offered to go to
you when you were ready. Surely that showed my spirit--and you haven't known me these years
without knowing it would have to be that or nothing."

"Well, hang it, it wasn't like the last time, and you know it; you're not kind any longer.
You can be kind, can't you?"

Her lip showed faintly the curl of scorn.

"No, I can't be kind any longer. Oh, I see you've known your own mind so little; there's been
so little depth to it all; you couldn't dare. It was foolish to think I could show you my mind."

"But you still care for me?"

"No; no, I don't. You should have no reason to think so if I did. When I heard you'd made it
up I hated you, and I think I hate you now. Let us go back. No, no, please don't touch me--ever
again."

Farther down-town in the cosy drawing-room of a house in a side street east of the Avenue,
two other persons were talking. A florid and profusely freckled young Englishman spoke protestingly
from the hearth-rug to a woman who had the air of knowing emphatically better.

"But, my dear Mrs. Drelmer, you know, really, I can't take a curate with me, you know, and
send up word won't she be good enough to come downstairs and marry me directly--not when I've
not seen her, you know!"  "Nonsense!" replied the lady, unimpressed. "You can do it nearly
that way, if you'll listen to me. Those Westerners perform quite in that manner, I assure you.
They call it 'hustling.'"

"Dear me!"

"Yes, indeed, 'dear you.' And another thing, I want you to forestall that Milbrey youth, and
you may be sure he's no farther away than Tuxedo or Meadowbrook. Now, they arrived yesterday;
they'll be unpacking to-day and settling to-morrow; I'll call the day after, and you shall
be with me."

"And you forget that--that devil--suppose she's as good as her threat?"

"Absurd! how could she be?"

"You don't know her, you know, nor the old beggar either, by Jove!"

"All the more reason for haste. We'll call to-morrow. Wait. Better still, perhaps I can enlist
the Gwilt-Athelston; I'm to meet her to-morrow. I'll let you know. Now I must get into my teaharness,
so run along."

We are next constrained to glance at a strong man bowed in the hurt of a great grief. Horace
Milbrey sits alone in his gloomy, high-ceilinged library. His attire is immaculate. His slender,
delicate hands are beautifully white. The sensitive lines of his fine face tell of the strain
under which he labours. What dire tragedies are those we must face wholly alone--where we must
hide the wound, perforce, because no comprehending sympathy flows out to us; because instinct
warns that no help may come save from the soul's own well of divine fortitude. Some hope, tenderly,
almost fearfully, held and guarded, had perished on the day that should have seen its triumphant
fruition. He raised his handsome head from the antique, claw-footed desk, sat up in his chair,
and stared tensely before him. His emotion was not to be suppressed. Do tears tremble in the
eyes of the strong man? Let us not inquire too curiously. If they tremble down the fine-skinned
cheek, let us avert our gaze. For grief in men is no thing to make a show of.

A servant passed the open door bearing an immense pasteboard box with one end cut out to accommodate
the long stems of many roses.

"Jarvis!"

"Yes, sir!"

"What is it?"

"Flowers, sir, for Miss Avice."

"Let me see--and the card?"

He took the card from the florist's envelope and glanced at the name.

"Take them away."

The stricken man was once more alone; yet now it was as if the tender beauty of the flowers
had balmed his hurt--taught him to hope anew. Let us in all sympathy and hope retire.

For cheerfuller sights we might observe Launton Oldaker in a musty curio-shop, delighted over
a pair of silver candlesticks with square bases and fluted columns, fabricated in the reign
of that fortuitous monarch, Charles the Second; or we might glance in upon the Higbees in their
section of a French chateau, reproduced up on the stately Riverside Drive, where they complete
the details of a dinner to be given on the morrow.

Or perhaps it were better to be concerned with a matter more weighty than dinners and antique
candlesticks. The search need never be vain, even in this world of persistent frivolity. As,
for example:

"Tell Mrs. Van Geist if she can't come down, I'll run up to her."

"Yes, Miss Milbrey."

Mrs. Van Geist entered a moment later.

"Why, Avice, child, you're glowing, aren't you?"

"I must be, I suppose--I've just walked down from 59th Street, and before that I walked in
the Park. Feel how cold my cheeks are,--Muetterchen."

"It's good for you. Now we shall have some tea, and talk."

"Yes--I'm hungry for both, and some of those funny little cakes."

"Come back where the fire is, dear; the tea has just been brought. There, take the big chair."

"It always feels like you--like your arms, Muetterchen--and I am tired."

"And throw off that coat. There's the lemon, if you're afraid of cream."

"I wish I weren't afraid of anything but cream."

"You told me you weren't afraid of that--that cad--any more."

"I'm not--I just told him so. But I'm afraid of it all; I'm tired trying not to drift--tired
trying not to try, and tired trying to try--Oh, dear--sounds like a nonsense verse, doesn't
it? Have you any one to-night? No? I think I must stay with you till morning. Send some one
home to say I'll be here. I can always think so much better here--and you, dear old thing,
to mother me!"

"Do, child; I'll send Sandon directly."

"He will go to the house of mourning."

"What's the latest?"

"Papa was on the verge of collapse this morning, and yet he was striving so bravely and nobly
to bear up. No one knows what that man suffers; it makes him gloomy all the time about everything.
Just before I left, he was saying that, when one considers the number of American homes in
which a green salad is never served, one must be appalled. Are you appalled, auntie? But that
isn't it."

"Nothing has happened?"

"Well, there'll be no sensation about it in the papers to-morrow, but a very dreadful thing
has happened. Papa has suffered one of the cruellest blows of his life. I fancy he didn't sleep
at all last night, and he looked thoroughly bowled over this morning."

"But what is it?"

"Well--oh, it's awful!--first of all there were six dozen of early-bottled, 1875 Chateau Lafitte--that
was the bitterest--but he had to see the rest go, too--Chateau Margeaux of '80--some terribly
ancient port and Madeira--the dryest kind of sherry--a lot of fine, full clarets of '77 and
'78--oh, you can't know how agonising it was to him--I've heard them so often I know them all
myself."

"But what on earth about them?"

"Nothing, only the Cosmopolitan Club's wine cellar--auctioned off, you know. For over a year
papa has looked forward to it. He knew every bottle of wine in it. He could recite the list
without looking at it. Sometimes he sounded like a French lesson--and he's been under a fearful
strain ever since the announcement was made. Well, the great day came yesterday, and poor pater
simply couldn't bid in a single drop. It needed ready money, you know. And he had hoped so
cheerfully all the time to do something. It broke his heart, I'm sure, to see that Chateau
Lafitte go--and only imagine, it was bid in by the butler of that odious Higbee. You should
have heard papa rail about the vulgar nouveaux riches when he came home--he talked quite like
an anarchist. But by to-night he'll be blaming me for his misfortunes. That's why I chose to
stay here with you."

"Poor Horace. Whatever are you going to do?"

"Well, dearie, as for me, it doesn't look as if I could do anything but one thing. And here
is my ardent young Croesus coming out of the West."

"You called him your 'athletic Bayard' once."

"The other's more to the point at present. And what else can I do? Oh, if some one would just
be brave enough to live the raw, quivering life with me, I could do it, I give you my word.
I could let everything go by the board--but I am so alone and so helpless and no man is equal
to it, nowadays. All of us here seem to be content to order a 'half portion' of life."

"Child, those dreams are beautiful, but they're like those flying-machines that are constantly
being tested by the credulous inventors. A wheel or a pinion goes wrong and down the silly
things come tumbling."

"Very well; then I shall be wise--I suppose I shall be--and I'll do it quickly. This fortune
of good gold shall propose marriage to me at once, and be accepted--so that I shall be able
to look my dear old father in the face again--and then, after I'm married--well, don't blame
me for anything that happens."

"I'm sure you'll be happy with him--it's only your silly notions. He's in love with you."

"That makes me hesitate. He really is a man--I like him--see this letter--a long review from
the Arcady Lyre of the 'poem' he wrote, a poem consisting of 'Avice Milbrey.' The reviewer
has been quite enthusiastic over it, too,--written from some awful place in Montana."

"What more could you ask? He'll be kind."

"You don't understand, Muetterchen. He seems too decent to marry that way--and yet it's the
only way I could marry him. And after he found me out--oh, think of what marriage is--he'd
have to find it out--I couldn't act long--doubtless he wouldn't even be kind to me then."

"You are morbid, child."

"But I will do it; I shall; I will be a credit to my training--and I shall learn to hate him
and he will have to learn--well, a great deal that he doesn't know about women."

She stared into the fire and added, after a moment's silence:

"Oh, if a man only could live up to the verses he cuts out of magazines!"

CHAPTER XVI.

With the Barbaric Hosts

History repeats itself so cleverly, with a variance of stage-settings and accessories so cunning,
that the repetition seldom bores, and is, indeed, frequently undetected. Thus, the descent
of the Barbarians upon a decadent people is a little tour de force that has been performed
again and again since the oldest day. But because the assault nowadays is made not with force
of arms we are prone to believe it is no longer made at all;--as if human ways had changed
a bit since those ugly, hairy tribes from the Northern forests descended upon the Roman empire.
And yet the mere difference that the assault is now made with force of money in no way alters
the process nor does it permit the result to vary. On the surface all is cordiality and peaceful
negotiation. Beneath is the same immemorial strife, the life-and-death struggle,--pitiless,
inexorable.

What would have been a hostile bivouac within the city's gates, but for the matter of a few
centuries, is now, to select an example which remotely concerns us, a noble structure on Riverside
Drive, facing the lordly Hudson and the majestic Palisades that form its farther wall. And,
for the horde of Goths and Visigoths, Huns and Vandals, drunkenly reeling in the fitful light
of camp-fires, chanting weird battle-runes, fighting for captive vestals, and bickering in
uncouth tongues over the golden spoils, what have we now to make the parallel convince? Why,
the same Barbarians, actually; the same hairy rudeness, the same unrefined, all-conquering,
animal force; a red-faced, big-handed lot, imbued with hearty good nature and an easy tolerance
for the ways of those upon whom they have descended.

Here are chiefs of renown from the farthest fastnesses; they and their curious households:
the ironmonger from Pittsburg, the gold-miner from Dawson, the copper chief from Butte, the
silver chief from Denver, the cattle chief from Oklahoma, lord of three hundred thousand good
acres and thirty thousand cattle, the lumber prince from Michigan, the founder of a later dynasty
in oil, from Texas. And, for the unaesthetic but effective Attila, an able fashioner of pork
products from Chicago.

Here they make festival, carelessly, unafraid, unmolested. For, in the lapse of time, the older
peoples have learned not only the folly of resisting inevitables, but that the huge and hairy
invaders may be treated and bartered with not unprofitably. Doubtless it often results from
this amity that the patrician strain is corrupted by the alien admixture,--but business has
been business since as many as two persons met on the face of the new earth.

For example, this particular shelter is builded upon land which one of the patrician families
had held for a century solely because it could not be disposed of. Yet the tribesmen came,
clamouring for palaces, and now this same land, with some adjoining areas of trifling extent,
produces an income that will suffice to maintain that family almost in its ancient and befitting
estate.

In this mammoth pile, for the petty rental of ten or fifteen thousand dollars a year, many
tribes of the invaders have found shelter and entertainment in apartments of many rooms. Outwardly,
in details of ornamentation, the building is said to duplicate the Chateaux Blois, those splendid
palaces of Francis I. Inside are all the line and colour and device of elegant opulence, modern
to the last note.

To this palace of an October evening comes the tribe of Bines, and many another such, for a
triumphal feast in the abode of Barbarian Silas Higbee. The carriages pass through a pair of
lordly iron gates, swung from massive stone pillars, under an arch of wrought iron with its
antique lamp, and into the echoing courtyard flanked by trim hedges of box.

Alighting, the barbaric guests of Higbee are ushered through a marble-walled vestibule, from
which a wrought-iron and bronze screen gives way to the main entrance-hall. The ceiling here
reproduces that of a feudal castle in Rouen, with some trifling and effective touches of decoration
in blue, scarlet, and gold. The walls are of white Caen stone, with ornate windows and balconies
jutting out above. In one corner is a stately stone mantel with richly carved hood, bearing
in its central panel the escutcheon of the gallant French monarch. Up a little flight of marble
steps, guarded by its hand-rail of heavy metal, shod with crimson velvet, one reaches the elevator.
This pretty enclosure of iron and glass, of classic detail in the period of Henry II., of Circassian
walnut trim, with crotch panels, has more the aspect of boudoir than elevator. The deep seat
is of walnut, upholstered with fat cushions of crimson velvet edged in dull gold galloon. Over
the seat is a mirror cut into small squares by wooden muntins. At each side are electric candles
softened by red silk shades. One's last view before the door closes noiselessly is of a bay-window
opposite, set with cathedral glass casement-lights, which sheds soft colours upon the hall-bench
of carven stone and upon the tessellated floor.

The door to the Higbee domain is of polished mahogany, set between lights of antique verte
Italian glass, and bearing an ancient brass knocker. From the reception-room, with its walls
of green empire silk, one passes through a foyer hall, of Cordova leather hangings, to the
drawing-room with its three broad windows. Opposite the entrance to this superb room is a mantel
of carved Caen stone, faced with golden Pavanazza marble, with old Roman andirons of gold ending
in the fleur-de-lis. The walls are hung with blue Florentine silk, embossed in silver. Beyond
a bronze grill is the music-room, a library done in Austrian oak with stained burlap panelled
by dull-forged nails, a conservatory, a billiard-room, a smoking-room. This latter has walls
of red damask and a mantel with "Post Tenebras Lux" cut into one of its marble panels,--a legend
at which the worthy lessee of all this splendour is wont often to glance with respectful interest.

The admirable host--if one be broad-minded--is now in the drawing-room, seconding his worthy
wife and pretty daughter who welcome the dinner-guests.

For a man who has a fad for ham and doesn't care who knows it, his bearing is all we have a
right to expect that it should be. Among the group of arrivals, men of his own sort, he is
speaking of the ever-shifting fashion in beards, to the evangel of a Texas oil-field who flaunts
to the world one of those heavy moustaches spuriously extended below the corners of the mouth
by means of the chin-growth of hair. Another, a worthy tribesman from Snohomish, Washington,
wears a beard which, for a score of years, has been let to be its own true self; to express,
fearlessly, its own unique capacity for variation from type. These two have rallied their host
upon his modishly trimmed side-whiskers.

"You're right," says Mr. Higbee, amiably, "I ain't stuck any myself on this way of trimming
up a man's face, but the madam will have it this way--says it looks more refined and New Yorky.
And now, do you know, ever since I've wore 'em this way--ever since I had 'em scraped from
around under my neck here--I have to go to Florida every winter. Come January or February,
I get bronchitis every blamed year!"

Two of the guests only are alien to the barbaric throng.

There is the noble Baron Ronault de Palliac, decorated, reserved, observant,--almost wistful.
For the moment he is picturing dutifully the luxuries a certain marriage would enable him to
procure for his noble father and his aged mother, who eagerly await the news of his quest for
the golden fleece. For the baron contemplates, after the fashion of many conscientious explorers,
a marriage with a native woman; though he permits himself to cherish the hope that it may not
be conditioned upon his adopting the manners and customs of the particular tribe that he means
to honour. Monsieur the Baron has long since been obliged to confess that a suitable mesalliance
is none too easy of achievement, and, in testimony of his vicissitudes, he has written for
a Paris comic paper a series of grimly satiric essays upon New York society. Recently, moreover,
he has been upon the verge of accepting employment in the candy factory of a bourgeois compatriot.
But hope has a little revived in the noble breast since chance brought him and his title under
the scrutiny of the bewitching Miss Millicent Higbee and her appreciative mother.

And to-night there is not only the pretty Miss Higbee, but the winning Miss Bines, whose dot,
the baron has been led to understand, would permit his beloved father unlimited piquet at his
club, to say nothing of regenerating the family chateau. Yet these are hardly matters to be
gossiped of. It is enough to know that the Baron Ronault de Palliac when he discovers himself
at table between Miss Bines and the adorable Miss Higbee, becomes less saturnine than has for
some time been his wont. He does not forget previous disappointments, but desperately snaps
his swarthy jaws in commendable superiority to any adverse fate.

"Je ne donne pas un damn," he says to himself, and translates, as was his practice, to better
his English--"I do not present a damn. I shall take what it is that it may be."

The noble Baron de Palliac at this feast of the tribesmen was like the captive patrician of
old led in chains that galled. The other alien, Launton Oldaker, was present under terms of
honourable truce, willingly and without ulterior motive saving--as he confessed to himself--a
consuming desire to see "how the other half lives." He was no longer the hunted and dismayed
being Percival had met in that far-off and impossible Montana; but was now untroubled, remembering,
it is true, that this "slumming expedition," as he termed it, had taken him beyond the recognised
bounds of his beloved New York, but serene in the consciousness that half an hour's drive would
land him safely back at his club.

Oldaker observed Miss Psyche Bines approvingly.

"We are so glad to be in New York!" she had confided to him, sitting at her right.

"My dear young woman," he warned her, "you haven't reached New York yet." The talk being general
and loud, he ventured further.

"This is Pittsburg, Chicago, Kansas City, Denver--almost anything but New York."

"Of course I know these are not the swell old families."

Oldaker sipped his glass of old Oloroso sherry and discoursed.

"And our prominent families, the ones whose names you read, are not New York any more, either.
They are rather London and Paris. Their furniture, clothing, plate, pictures, and servants
come from one or the other. Yes, and their manners, too, their interests and sympathies and
concerns, their fashions--and--sometimes, their--er--morals. They are assuredly not New York
any more than Gobelin tapestries and Fortuny pictures and Louis Seize chairs are New York."

"How queerly you talk. Where is New York, then?"

Oldaker sighed thoughtfully between two spoonfuls of tortue verte, claire.

"Well, I suppose the truth is that there isn't much of New York left in New York. As a matter
of fact I think it died with the old Volunteer Fire Department. Anyway the surviving remnant
is coy. Real old New Yorkers like myself--neither poor nor rich--are swamped in these days
like those prehistoric animals whose bones we find. There comes a time when we can't live,
and deposits form over us and we're lost even to memory."

But this talk was even harder for Miss Bines to understand than the English speech of the Baron
Ronault de Palliac, and she turned to that noble gentleman as the turbot with sauce Corail
was served.

The dining-room, its wall wainscotted from floor to ceiling in Spanish oak, was flooded with
soft light from the red silk dome that depended from its crown of gold above the table. The
laughter and talk were as little subdued as the scheme of the rooms. It was an atmosphere of
prodigal and confident opulence. From the music-room near by came the soft strains of a Haydn
quartet, exquisitely performed by finished and expensive artists.

"Say, Higbee!" it was the oil chief from Texas, "see if them fiddlers of yours can't play 'Ma
Honolulu Lulu!'"

Oldaker, wincing and turning to Miss Bines for sympathy, heard her say:

"Yes, do, Mr. Higbee! I do love those ragtime songs--and then have them play 'Tell Me, Pretty
Maiden,' and the 'Intermezzo.'"

He groaned in anguish.

The talk ran mostly on practical affairs: the current values of the great staple commodities;
why the corn crop had been light; what wheat promised to bring; how young Burman of the Chicago
Board of Trade had been pinched in his own wheat corner for four millions--"put up" by his
admiring father; what beef on the hoof commanded; how the Federal Oil Company would presently
own the State of Texas.

Almost every Barbarian at the table had made his own fortune. Hardly one but could recall early
days when he toiled on farm or in shop or forest, herded cattle, prospected, sought adventure
in remote and hazardous wilds.

"'Tain't much like them old days, eh, Higbee?" queried the Crown Prince of Cripple Creek--"when
you and me had to walk from Chicago to Green Bay, Wisconsin, because we didn't have enough
shillings for stage-fare?" He gazed about him suggestively.

"Corn-beef and cabbage was pretty good then, eh?" and with sure, vigorous strokes he fell to
demolishing his filet de dinde a la Perigueux, while a butler refilled his glass with Chateau
Malescot, 1878.

"Well, it does beat the two rooms the madam and me started to keep house in when we was married,"
admitted the host. "That was on the banks of the Chicago River, and now we got the Hudson flowin'
right through the front yard, you might say, right past our own yacht-landing."

From old days of work and hardship they came to discuss the present and their immediate surroundings,
social and financial.

Their daughters, it appeared, were being sought in marriage by the sons of those among whom
they sojourned.

"Oh, they're a nice band of hand-shakers, all right, all right," asserted the gentleman from
Kansas City. "One of 'em tried to keep company with our Caroline, but I wouldn't stand for
it. He was a crackin' good shinny player, and he could lead them cotillion-dances blowin' a
whistle and callin', 'All right, Up!' or something, like a car-starter,--but, 'Tell me something
good about him,' I says to an old friend of his family. Well, he hemmed and hawed--he was a
New York gentleman, and says he, 'I don't know whether I could make you understand or not,'
he says, 'but he's got Family,' jest like that, bearin' down hard on 'Family'--'and you've
got money,' he says, 'and Money and Family need each other badly in this town,' he says. 'Yes,'
says I, 'I met up with a number of people here,' I says, 'but I ain't met none yet that you'd
have to blindfold and back into a lot of money,' I says, 'family or no family,' I says. 'And
that young man,' he says, 'is a pleasant, charming fellow; why,' he says, 'he's the best-coated
man in New York.' Well, I looked at him and I says, 'Well,' says I, 'he may be the best-coated
man in New York, but he'll be the best-booted man in New York, too,' I says, 'if he comes around
trying to spark Caroline any more,--or would be if I had my way. His chin's pushed too far
back under his face,' I says, 'and besides,' I says, 'Caroline is being waited on by a young
hardware drummer, a good steady young fellow travelling out of little old K.C.,' I says, 'and
while he ain't much for fam'ly,' I says, he'll have one of his own before he gets through,'
I says; 'we start fam'lies where I come from,' I says."

"Good boy! Good for you," cheered the self-made Barbarians, and drank success to the absent
disseminator of hardware.

With much loud talk of this unedifying character the dinner progressed to an end; through selle
d'agneau, floated in '84 champagne, terrapin convoyed by a special Madeira of 1850, and canvas-back
duck with Romanee Conti, 1865, to a triumphant finale of Turkish coffee and 1811 brandy.

After dinner the ladies gossiped of New York society, while the barbaric males smoked their
big oily cigars and bandied reminiscences. Higbee showed them through every one of the apartment's
twenty-two rooms, from reception-hall to laundry, manipulating the electric lights with the
skill of a stage-manager.

The evening ended with a cake-walk, for the musical artists had by rare wines been mellowed
from their classic reserve into a mood of ragtime abandon. And if Monsieur the Baron with his
ceremonious grace was less exuberant than the Crown Prince of Cripple Creek, who sang as he
stepped the sensuous measure, his pleasure was not less. He joyed to observe that these men
of incredible millions had no hauteur.

"I do not," wrote the baron to his noble father the marquis, that night, "yet understand their
joke; why should it be droll to wish that the man whose coat is of the best should also wear
boots of the best? but as for what they call une promenade de gateau, I find it very enjoyable.
I have met a Mlle. Bines to whom I shall at once pay my addresses. Unlike Mlle. Higbee, she
has not the father from Chicago nor elsewhere. Quel diable d'homme!"

CHAPTER XVII.

The Patricians Entertain

To reward the enduring who read politely through the garish revel of the preceding chapter,
covers for fourteen are now laid with correct and tasteful quietness at the sophisticated board
of that fine old New York family, the Milbreys. Shaded candles leave all but the glowing table
in a gloom discreetly pleasant. One need not look so high as the old-fashioned stuccoed ceiling.
The family portraits tone agreeably into the halflight of the walls; the huge old-fashioned
walnut sideboard, soberly ornate with its mirrors, its white marble top and its wood-carved
fruit, towers majestically aloft in proud scorn of the frivolous Chippendale fad.

Jarvis, the accomplished and incomparable butler, would be subdued and scholarly looking but
for the flagrant scandal of his port-wine nose. He gives finishing little fillips to the white
chrysanthemums massed in the central epergne on the long silver plateau, and bestows a last
cautious survey upon the cut-glass and silver radiating over the dull white damask. Finding
the table and its appointments faultless, he assures himself once more that the sherry will
come on irreproachably at a temperature of 60 degrees; that the Burgundy will not fall below
65 nor mount above 70; for Jarvis wots of a palate so acutely sensitive that it never fails
to record a variation of so much as one degree from the approved standard of temperature.

How restful this quiet and reserve after the colour and line tumult of the Higbee apartment.
There the flush and bloom of newness were oppressive to the right-minded. All smelt of the
shop. Here the dull tones and decorous lines caress and soothe instead of overwhelming the
imagination with effects too grossly literal. Here is the veritable spirit of good form.

Throughout the house this contrast might be noted. It is the brown-stone, high-stoop house,
guarded by a cast-iron fence, built in vast numbers when the world of fashion moved North to
Murray Hill and Fifth Avenue a generation ago. One of these houses was like all the others
inside and out, built of unimaginative "builder's architecture." The hall, the long parlour,
the back parlour or library, the high stuccoed ceilings--not only were these alike in all the
houses, but the furnishings, too, were apt to be of a sameness in them all, rather heavy and
tasteless, but serving the ends that such things should be meant to serve, and never flamboyant.
Of these relics of a simpler day not many survive to us, save in the shameful degeneracy of
boarding-houses. But in such as are left, we may confidently expect to find the traditions
of that more dignified time kept unsullied;--to find, indeed, as we find in the house of Milbrey,
a settled air of gloom that suggests insolvent but stubbornly determined exclusiveness.

Something of this air, too, may be noticed in the surviving tenants of these austere relics.
Yet it would hardly be observed in this house on this night, for not only do arriving guests
bring the aroma of a later prosperity, but the hearts of our host and hostess beat high with
a new hope. For the fair and sometimes uncertain daughter of the house of Milbrey, after many
ominous mutterings, delays, and frank rebellions, has declared at last her readiness to be
a credit to her training by conferring her family prestige, distinction of manner and charms
of person upon one equipped for their suitable maintenance.

Already her imaginative father is ravishing in fancy the mouldiest wine-cellars of Continental
Europe. Already the fond mother has idealised a house in "Millionaire's Row" east of the Park,
where there shall be twenty servants instead of three, and there shall cease that gnawing worry
lest the treacherous north-setting current sweep them west of the Park into one of those hideously
new apartment houses, where the halls are done in marble that seems to have been sliced from
a huge Roquefort cheese, and where one must vie, perhaps, with a shop-keeper for the favours
of an irreverent and materialistic janitor.

The young woman herself entertains privately a state of mind which she has no intention of
making public. It is enough, she reasons, that her action should outwardly accord with the
best traditions of her class; and indeed, her family would never dream of demanding more.

Her gown to-night is of orchard green, trimmed with apple-blossoms, a single pink spray of
them caught in her hair. The rounding, satin grace of her slender arms, sloping to the opal-tipped
fingers, the exquisite line from ear to shoulder strap, the melting ripeness of her chin and
throat, the tender pink and white of her fine skin, the capricious, inciting tilt of her small
head, the dainty lift of her short nose,--these allurements she has inventoried with a calculating
and satisfied eye. She is glad to believe that there is every reason why it will soon be over.

And, since the whole loaf is notoriously better than a half, here is the engaging son of the
house, also firmly bent upon the high emprise of matrimony; handsome, with the chin, it may
be, slightly receding; but an unexcelled leader of cotillions, a surpassing polo-player, clever,
winning, and dressed with an effect that has long made him remarked in polite circles, which
no mere money can achieve. Money, indeed, if certain ill-natured gossip of tradesmen be true,
has been an inconsiderable factor in the encompassment of this sartorial distinction. He waits
now, eager for a first glimpse of the young woman whose charms, even by report, have already
won the best devotion he has to give. A grievous error it is to suppose that Cupid's artillery
is limited to bow and arrows.

And now, instead of the rude commercial horde that laughed loudly and ate uncouthly at the
board of the Barbarian, we shall sit at table with people born to the only manner said to be
worth possessing;--if we except, indeed, the visiting tribe of Bines, who may be relied upon,
however, to behave at least unobtrusively.

As a contrast to the oppressively Western matron from Kansas City, here is Mistress Fidelia
Oldaker on the arm of her attentive son. She would be very old but for the circumstance that
she began early in life to be a belle, and age cannot stale such women. Brought up with board
at her back, books on her head, to guard her complexion as if it were her fair name, to be
diligent at harp practice and conscientious with the dancing-master, she is almost the last
of a school that nursed but the single aim of subjugating man. To-night, at seventy-something,
she is a bit of pink bisque fragility, bubbling tirelessly with reminiscence, her vivacity
unimpaired, her energy amazing, and her coquetry faultless. From which we should learn, and
be grateful therefor, that when a girl is brought up in the way she ought to go she will never
be able to depart from it.

Here also is Cornelia Van Geist, sister of our admirable hostess--relict of a gentleman who
had been first or second cousin to half the people in society it were really desirable to know,
and whose taste in wines, dinners, and sports had been widely praised at his death by those
who had had the fortune to be numbered among his friends. Mrs. Van Geist has a kind, shrewd
face, and her hair, which turned prematurely grey while she was yet a wife, gives her a look
of age that her actual years belie.

Here, too, is Rulon Shepler, the money-god, his large, round head turning upon his immense
shoulders without the aid of a neck--sharp-eyed, grizzled, fifty, short of stature, and with
as few illusions concerning life as the New York financier is apt to retain at his age.

If we be forced to wait for another guest of note, it is hardly more than her due; for Mrs.
Gwilt-Athelstan is truly a personage, and the best people on more than one continent do not
become unduly provoked at being made to wait for her. Those less than the very best frankly
esteem it a privilege. Yet the great lady is not careless of engagements, and the wait is never
prolonged. Mrs. Milbrey has time to say to her sister, "Yes, we think it's going; and really,
it will do very well, you know. The girl has had some nonsense in her mind for a year past--none
of us can tell what--but now she seems actually sensible, and she's promised to accept when
the chap proposes." But there is time for no more gossip.

The belated guest arrives, enveloped in a vast cloak, and accompanied by her two nephews, whom
Percival Bines recognises for the solemn and taciturn young men he had met in Shepler's party
at the mine.

Mrs. Gwilt-Athelstan, albeit a decorative personality, is constructed on the same broad and
generously graceful lines as her own victoria. The great lady has not only two chins, but what
any fair-minded observer would accept as sufficient promise of a good third. Yet hardly could
a slighter person display to advantage the famous Gwilt-Athelstan jewels. The rope of pierced
diamonds with pigeon-blood rubies strung between them, which she wears wound over her corsage,
would assuredly overweight the frail Fidelia Oldaker; the tiara of emeralds and diamonds was
never meant for a brow less majestic; nor would the stomacher of lustrous grey pearls and glinting
diamonds ever have clasped becomingly a figure that was svelte--or "skinny," as the great lady
herself is frank enough to term all persons even remotely inclined to be svelte.

But let us sit and enliven a proper dinner with talk upon topics of legitimate interest and
genuine propriety.

Here will be no discussion of the vulgar matter of markets, staples, and prices, such as we
perforce endured through the overwined and too-abundant repast of Higbee. Instead of learning
what beef on the hoof brings per hundred-weight, f.o.b. at Cheyenne, we shall here glean at
once the invaluable fact that while good society in London used to be limited to those who
had been presented at court, the presentations have now become so numerous that the limitation
has lost its significance. Mrs. Gwilt-Athelstan thus discloses, as if it were a trifle, something
we should never learn at the table of Higbee though we ate his heavy dinners to the day of
ultimate chaos. And while we learned at that distressingly new table that one should keep one's
heifers and sell off one's steer calves, we never should have been informed there that Dinard
had just enjoyed the gayest season of its history under the patronage of this enterprising
American; nor that Lady de Muzzy had opened a tea-room in Grafton Street, and Cynthia, Marchioness
of Angleberry, a beauty-improvement parlour on the Strand "because she needs the money."

"Lots of 'em takin' to trade nowadays; it's a smart sayin' there now that all the peers are
marryin' actresses and all the peeresses goin' into business." Mrs. Gwilt-Athelstan nodded
little shocks of brilliance from her tiara and hungrily speared another oyster.

"Only trouble is, it's such rotten hard work collectin' bills from their intimate friends;
they simply won't pay."

Nor at the barbaric Higbee's should we have been vouchsafed, to treasure for our own, the knowledge
that Mrs. Gwilt-Athelstan had merely run over for the cup-fortnight, meaning to return directly
to her daughter, Katharine, Duchess of Blanchmere, in time for the Melton Mowbray hunting-season;
nor that she had been rather taken by the new way of country life among us, and so tempted
to protract her gracious sojourn.

"Really," she admits, "we're comin' to do the right thing over here; a few years were all we
needed. Hardly a town-house to be opened before Thanksgivin', I understand; and down at the
Hills some of the houses will stay open all winter. It's coachin', ridin', and golf and auto-racin'
and polo and squash; really the young folks don't go in at all except to dance and eat; and
it's quite right, you know. It's quite decently English, now. Why, at Morris Park the other
day, the crowd on the lawn looked quite like Ascot, actually."

Nor could we have learned in the hostile camp the current gossip of Tuxedo, Meadowbrook, Lenox,
Morristown, and Ardsley; of the mishap to Mrs. "Jimmie" Whettin, twice unseated at a recent
meet; of the woman's championship tournament at Chatsworth; or the good points of the new runner-up
at Baltusrol, daily to be seen on the links. Where we might incur knowledge of Beaumont "gusher"
or Pittsburg mill we should never have discovered that teas and receptions are really falling
into disrepute; that a series of dinner-dances will be organised by the mothers of debutantes
to bring them forward; and that big subscription balls are in disfavour, since they benefit
no one but the caterers who serve poor suppers and bad champagne.

Mrs. takes only Scotch whiskey and soda.

"But I'm glad," she confides to Horace Milbrey on her left, "that you haven't got to followin'
this fad of havin' one wine at dinner; I know it's English, but it's downright shoddy."

Her host's eyes swam with gratitude for this appreciation.

"I stick to my peg," she continued; "but I like to see a Chablis with the oysters and good
dry sherry with the soup, and a Moselle with the fish, and then you're ready to be livened
with a bit of champagne for the roast, and steadied a bit by Burgundy with the game. Phim sticks
to it, too; tells me my peg is downright encouragement to the bacteria. But I tell him I've
no quarrel with my bacteria. 'Live and let live' is my motto, I tell him,--and if the microbes
and I both like Scotch and soda, why, what harm. I'm forty-two and not so much of a fool that
I ain't a little bit of a physician. I know my stomach, I tell him."

"What about these Western people?" she asked Oldaker at her other side, after a little.

"Decent, unpretentious folks, somewhat new, but with loads of money."

"I've heard how the breed's stormin' New York in droves; but they tell me some of us need the
money."

"I dined with one last night, a sugar-cured ham magnate from Chicago."

"Dear me! how shockin'!"

"But they're good, whole-souled people."

"And well-heeled--and that's what we need, it seems. Some of us been so busy bein' well-familied
that we've forgot to make money."

"It's a good thing, too. Nature has her own building laws about fortunes. When they get too
sky-scrapy she topples them over. These people with their thrifty habits would have all the
money in time if their sons and daughters didn't marry aristocrats with expensive tastes who
know how to be spenders. Nature keeps things fairly even, one way or another."

"You're thinkin' about Kitty and the duke."

"No, not then I wasn't, though that's one of the class I mean. I was thinking especially about
these Westerners."

"Well, my grandfather made the best barrels in New York, and I'm mother-in-law of a chap whose
ancestors for three hundred and fifty years haven't done a stroke of work; but he's the Duke
of Blanchmere, and I hope our friends here will come as near gettin' the worth of their money
as we did. And if that chap"--she glanced at Percival--"marries a certain young woman, he'll
never have a dull moment. I'd vouch for that. I'm quite sure she's the devil in her."

"And if the yellow-haired girl marries the fellow next her--"

"He might do worse."

"Yes, but might she? He's already doing worse, and he'll keep on doing it, even if he does
marry her."

"Nonsense--about that, you know; all rot! What can you expect of these chaps? So does the duke
do worse, but you'll never hear Kitty complain so long as he lets her alone and she can wear
the strawberry leaves. I fancy I'll have those young ones down to the Hills for Hallowe'en
and the week-end. Might as well help 'em along."

At the other end of the table, the fine old ivory of her cheeks gently suffused with pink until
they looked like slightly crumpled leaves of a la France rose, Mrs. Oldaker was flirting brazenly
with Shepler, and prattling impartially to him and to one of the twin nephews of old days in
social New York; of a time when the world of fashion occupied a little space at the Battery
and along Broadway; of its migration to the far north of Great Jones Street, St. Mark's Place,
and Second Avenue. In Waverly Place had been the flowering of her belle-hood, and the day when
her set moved on to Murray Hill was to her still recent and revolutionary.

Between the solemn Angstead twins, Mrs. Bines had sat in silence until by some happy chance
it transpired that "horse" was the word to unlock their lips. As Mrs. Bines knew all about
horses the twins at once became voluble, showing her marked attention. The twins were notably
devoid of prejudice if your sympathies happened to run with theirs.

Miss Bines and young Milbrey were already on excellent terms. Percival and Miss Milbrey, on
the other hand, were doing badly. Some disturbing element seemed to have put them aloof. Miss
Milbrey wondered somewhat; but her mind was easy, for her resolution had been taken.

Mrs. Gwilt-Athelstan extended her invitation to the young people, who accepted joyfully.

"Come down and camp with us, and help Phim keep the batteries of his autos run out. You know
they deteriorate when they're left half-charged, and it's one of the cares of his life to see
to the whole six of 'em when they come in. He gets in one and the men get in the others, and
he leads a solemn parade around the stables until they've been run out. Tell me the leisure
class isn't a hard-workin' class, now."

Over coffee and chartreuse in the drawing-room there was more general talk of money and marriage,
and of one for the other.

"And so he married money," concluded Mrs. Gwilt-Athelstan of one they had discussed.

"Happy marriage!" Shepler called out.

"No; money talks! and this time, on my word, now, it made you want to put on those thick sealskin
ear-muffs. Poor chap, and he'd been talkin' to me about the monotony of married life. 'Monotony,
my boy,' I said to him, 'you don't know lovely woman!' and now he wishes jolly well that he'd
not done it, you know."

Here, too, was earned by Mrs. Bines a reputation for wit that she was never able quite to destroy.
There had been talk of a banquet to a visiting celebrity the night before, for which the menu
was one of unusual costliness. Mr. Milbrey had dwelt with feeling upon certain of its eminent
excellences, such as loin of young bear, a la Granville, and the boned quail, stuffed with
goose-livers.

"Really," he concluded, "from an artistic standpoint, although large dinners are apt to be
slurred and slighted, it was a creation of undoubted worth."

"And the orchestra," spoke up Mrs. Bines, who had read of the banquet, "played 'Hail to the Chef!'"

The laughter at this sally was all it should have been, even the host joining in it. Only two
of those present knew that the good woman had been warned not to call "chef" "chief," as Silas
Higbee did. The fact that neither should "chief" be called "chef" was impressed upon her later,
in a way to make her resolve ever again to eschew both of the troublesome words.

When the guests had gone Miss Milbrey received the praise of both parents for her blameless
attitude toward young Bines.

"It will be fixed when we come back from Wheatly," said that knowing young woman, "and now
don't worry any more about it."

"And, Fred," said the mother, "do keep straight down there. She's a commonplace girl, with
lots of mannerisms to unlearn, but she's pretty and sweet and teachable."

"And she'll learn a lot from Fred that she doesn't know now," finished that young man's sister
from the foot of the stairway.

Back at their hotel Psyche Bines was saying:

"Isn't it queer about Mrs. Gwilt-Athelstan? We've read so much about her in the papers. I thought
she must be some one awful to meet--I was that scared--and instead, she's like any one, and
real chummy besides; and, actually, ma, don't you think her dress was dowdy--all except the
diamonds? I suppose that comes from living in England so much. And hasn't Mrs. Milbrey twice
as grand a manner, and the son--he's a precious--he knows everything and everybody; I shall
like him."

Her brother, who had flung himself into a cushioned corner, spoke with the air of one who had
reluctantly consented to be interviewed and who was anxious to be quoted correctly:

"Mrs. Gwilt-Athelstan is all right. She reminds me of what Uncle Peter writes about that new
herd of short-horns: 'This breed has a mild disposition, is a good feeder, and produces a fine
quality of flesh.' But I'll tell you one thing, sis," he concluded with sudden emphasis, "with
all this talk about marrying for money I'm beginning to feel as if you and I were a couple
of white rabbits out in the open with all the game laws off!"

CHAPTER XVIII.

The Course of True Love at a House Party

Among sundry maxims and observations of King Solomon, collated by the discerning men of Hezekiah,
it will be recalled that the way of a man with a maid is held up to wonder. Why he neglected
to include the way of a maid with a man is not at once apparent. His unusual facilities for
observation must seemingly have inspired him to wonder at the maid's way even more than at
the man's; and wise men later than he have not hesitated to confess their entire lack of understanding
in the matter. But if Solomon included this item in his summary, the men of Hezekiah omitted
to report the fact, and by their chronicles we learn only that the woman "eateth and wipeth
her mouth and saith 'I have done no wickedness.'" Perhaps it was Solomon's mischance to observe
phenomena of this character too much in the mass.

Miss Milbrey's way, at any rate, with the man she had decided to marry, would undoubtedly have
made more work for the unnamed Boswells of the king, could it have been brought to his notice.

For, as she journeyed to the meeting-place on a bright October afternoon, she confessed to
herself that it was of a depth beyond her own fathoming. Lolling easily back in the wicker
chair of the car that bore her, and gazing idly out over the brown fields and yellow forests
of Long Island as they swirled by her, she found herself wishing once that her eyes were made
like those of a doll. She had lately discovered of one that when it appeared to fall asleep,
it merely turned its eyes around to look into its own head. With any lesser opportunity for
introspection she felt that certain doubts as to her own motives and processes would remain
for ever unresolved. It was not that she could not say "I have done no wickedness;" let us
place this heroine in no false light. She was little concerned with the morality of her course
as others might appraise it. The fault, if fault it be, is neither ours nor hers, and Mr. Darwin
wrote a big book chiefly to prove that it isn't. From the force of her environment and heredity
Miss Milbrey had debated almost exclusively her own chances of happiness under given conditions;
and if she had, for a time, questioned the wisdom of the obvious course, entirely from her
own selfish standpoint, it is all that, and perhaps more than, we were justified in expecting
from her. Let her, then, cheat the reader of no sympathy that might flow to a heroine struggling
for a high moral ideal. Merely is she clear-headed enough to have discovered that selfishness
is not the thing of easy bonds it is reputed to be; that its delights are not certain; that
one does not unerringly achieve happiness by the bare circumstance of being uniformly selfish.
Yet even this is a discovery not often made, nor one to be lightly esteemed; for have not the
wise ones of Church and State ever implied that the way of selfishness is a way of sure delight,
to be shunned only because its joys endure not? So it may be, after all, no small merit we
claim for this girl in that, trained to selfishness and a certain course, she yet had the wit
to suspect that its joys have been overvalued even by its professional enemies. It is no small
merit, perhaps, even though, after due and selfish reflection, she determined upon the obvious
course.

If sometimes her heart was sick with the hunger to love and be loved by the one she loved,
so that there were times when she would have bartered the world for its plenary feeding, it
is all that, we insist, and more, than could be expected of this sort of heroine.

And so she had resolved upon surrender--upon an outward surrender. Inwardly she knew it to
be not more than a capitulation under duress, whose terms would remain for ever secret except
to those clever at induction. And now, as the train took her swiftly to her fate, she made
the best of it.

There would be a town-house fit for her; a country-house at Tuxedo or Lenox or Westbury, a
thousand good acres with greeneries, a game preserve, trout pond, and race-course; a cottage
at Newport; a place in Scotland; a house in London, perhaps. Then there would be jewels such
as she had longed for, a portrait by Chartran, she thought. And there was the dazzling thought
of going to Felix or Doucet with credit unlimited.

And he--would the thought of him as it had always come to her keep on hurting with a hurt she
could neither explain nor appease? Would he annoy her, enrage her perhaps, or even worse, tire
her? He would be very much in earnest, of course, and so few men could be in earnest gracefully.
But would he be stupid enough to stay so? And if not, would he become brutal? She suspected
he might have capacities for that. Would she be able to hide all but her pleasant emotions
from him,--hide that want, the great want, to which she would once have done sacrifice?

Well, it was easier to try than not to try, and the sacrifice--one could always sacrifice if
the need became imperative.

"And I'm making much of nothing," she concluded. "No other girl I know would do it. And papa
shall 'give me away.' What a pretty euphemism that is, to be sure!"

But her troubled musings ended with her time alone. From a whirl over the crisp, firm macadam,
tucked into one of Phimister Gwilt-Athelstan's automobiles with four other guests, with no
less a person than her genial host for chauffeur, she was presently ushered into the great
hall where a huge log-fire crackled welcome, and where blew a lively little gale of tea-chatter
from a dozen people.

Tea Miss Milbrey justly reckoned among the little sanities of life. Her wrap doffed and her
veil pushed up, she was in a moment restored to her normal ease, a part of the group, and making
her part of the talk that touched the latest news from town, the flower show, automobile show,
Irving and Terry, the morning's meet, the weekly musicale and dinner-dance at the club; and
at length upon certain matters of marriage and divorce.

"Ladies, ladies--this is degenerating into a mere hammer-fest." Thus spoke a male wit who had
listened. "Give over, and be nice to the absent."

"The end of the fairy story was," continued the previous speaker, unheeding, "and so they were
divorced and lived happily ever after."

"I think she took the Chicago motto, 'Marry early and often,'" said another, "but here she comes."

And as blond and fluffy little Mrs. Akemit, a late divorcee, joined the group the talk ranged
back to the flourishing new hunt at Goshen, the driving over of Tuxedo people for the meet,
the nasty accident to Warner Ridgeway when his blue-ribbon winner Musette fell upon him in
taking a double-jump.

Miss Milbrey had taken stock of her fellow guests. Especially was she interested to note the
presence of Mrs. Drelmer and her protege, Mauburn. It meant, she was sure, that her brother's
wooing of Miss Bines would not be uncontested.

Another load of guests from a later train bustled in, the Bineses among them, and there was
more tea and fresher gossip, while the butler circulated again with his tray for the trunk-keys.

The breezy hostess now took pains to impress upon all that only by doing exactly as they pleased,
as to going and coming, could they hope to please her. Had she not, by this policy, conquered
the cold, Scottish exclusiveness of Inverness-shire, so that the right sort of people fought
to be at her house-parties during the shooting, even though she would persist in travelling
back and forth to London in gowns that would be conspicuously elaborate at an afternoon reception,
and even though, in any condition of dress, she never left quite enough of her jewels in their
strong-box?

During the hour of dressing-sacque and slippers, while maids fluttered through the long corridors
on hair-tending and dress-hooking expeditions, Mrs. Drelmer favoured her hostess with a confidential
chat in that lady's boudoir, and, over Scotch and soda and a cigarette, suggested that Mr.
Mauburn, in a house where he could really do as he pleased, would assuredly take Miss Bines
out to dinner.

Mrs. Gwilt-Athelstan was instantly sympathetic.

"Only I can't take sides, you know, my dear, and young Milbrey will think me shabby if he doesn't
have first go; but I'll be impartial; Milbrey shall take her in, and Mauburn shall be at her
other side, and may God have mercy on her soul! These people have so much money, I hear, it
amounts to financial embarrassment, but with those two chaps for the girl, and Avice Milbrey
for that decent young chap, I fancy they'll be disembarrassed, in a measure. But I mustn't
'play favourites,' as those slangy nephews of mine put it."

And so it befell at dinner in the tapestried dining-room that Psyche Bines received assiduous
attention from two gentlemen whom she considered equally and superlatively fascinating. While
she looked at one, she listened to the other, and her neck grew tired with turning. Of anything,
save the talk, her mind was afterward a blank; but why is not that the ideal dinner for any
but mere feeders?

Nor was the dazzled girl conscious of others at the table,--of Florence Akemit, the babyish
blond, listening with feverish attention to the German savant, Doctor von Herzlich, who had
translated Goethe's "Iphigenie in Tauris" into Greek merely as recreation, and who was now
justifying his choice of certain words and phrases by citing passages from various Greek authors;
a choice which the sympathetic listener, after discreet intervals for reflection, invariably
commended.

"Oh, you wonderful, wonderful man, you!" she exclaimed, resolving to sit by some one less wonderful
another time.

Or there was Mrs. Gwilt-Athelstan, like a motherly Venus rising from a sea of pink velvet and
white silk lace, asserting that some one or other would never get within sniffing-distance
of the Sandringham set.

Or her husband, whose face, when he settled it in his collar, made the lines of a perfect lyre,
and of whom it would presently become inaccurate to say that he was getting bald. He was insisting
that "too many houses spoil the home," and that, with six establishments, he was without a
place to lay his head, that is, with any satisfaction.

Or there was pale, thin, ascetic Winnie Wilberforce, who, as a theosophist, is understood to
believe that, in a former incarnation, he came near to having an affair with a danseuse; he
was expounding the esoterics of his cult to a high-coloured brunette with many turquoises,
who, in turn, was rather inclined to the horse-talk of one of the nephews.

Or there were Miss Milbrey and Percival Bines, of whom the former had noted with some surprise
that the latter was studying her with the eyes of rather cold calculation, something she had
never before detected in him.

After dinner there were bridge and music from the big pipe-organ in the music-room, and billiards
and some dancing.

The rival cavaliers of Miss Bines, perceiving simultaneously that neither would have the delicacy
to withdraw from the field, cunningly inveigled each other into the billiard-room, where they
watchfully consumed whiskey and soda together with the design of making each other drunk. This
resulted in the two nephews, who invariably hunted as a pair, capturing Miss Bines to see if
she could talk horse as ably as her mother, and, when they found that she could, planning a
coaching trip for the morrow.

It also resulted in Miss Bines seeing no more of either cavalier that night, since they abandoned
their contest only after every one but a sleepy butler had retired, and at a time when it became
necessary for the Englishman to assist the American up the stairs, though the latter was moved
to protest, as a matter of cheerful generality, that he was "aw ri'--entirely cap'le." At parting
he repeatedly urged Mauburn, with tears in his eyes, to point out one single instance in which
he had ever proved false to a friend.

To herself, when the pink rose came out of her hair that night, Miss Milbrey admitted that
it wasn't going to be so bad, after all.

She had feared he might rush his proposal through that night; he had been so much in earnest.
But he had not done so, and she was glad he could be restrained and deliberate in that "breedy"
sort of way. It promised well, that he could wait until the morrow.

CHAPTER XIX.

An Afternoon Stroll and an Evening Catastrophe

Miss Milbrey, the next morning, faced with becoming resignation what she felt would be her
last day of entire freedom. She was down and out philosophically to play nine holes with her
host before breakfast.

Her brother, awakening less happily, made a series of discoveries regarding his bodily sensations
that caused him to view life with disaffection. Noting that the hour was early, however, he
took cheer, and after a long, strong, cold drink, which he rang for, and a pricking icy shower,
which he nerved himself to, he was ready to ignore his aching head and get the start of Mauburn.

The Englishman, he seemed to recall, had drunk even more than he, and, as it was barely eight
o'clock, would probably not come to life for a couple of hours yet. He made his way to the
breakfast-room. The thought of food was not pleasant, but another brandy and soda, beading
vivaciously in its tall glass, would enable him to watch with fortitude the spectacle of others
who might chance to be eating. And he would have at least two hours of Miss Bines before Mauburn's
head should ache him back to consciousness.

He opened the door of the spacious breakfast-room. Through the broad windows from the south-east
came the glorious shine of the morning sun to make him blink; and seated where it flooded him
as a calcium was Mauburn, resplendent in his myriad freckles, trim, alive, and obviously hungry.
Around his plate were cold mutton, a game pie, eggs, bacon, tarts, toast, and sodden-looking
marmalade. Mauburn was eating of these with a voracity that published his singleness of mind
to all who might observe.

Milbrey steadied himself with one hand upon the door-post, and with the other he sought to
brush this monstrous illusion from his fickle eyes. But Mauburn and the details of his deadly
British breakfast became only more distinct. The appalled observer groaned and rushed for the
sideboard, whence a decanter, a bowl of cracked ice, and a siphon beckoned.

Between two gulps of coffee Mauburn grinned affably.

"Mornin', old chap! Feelin' a bit seedy? By Jove! I don't wonder. I'm not so fit myself. I
fancy, you know, it must have been that beastly anchovy paste we had on the biscuits."

Milbrey's burning eyes beheld him reach out for another slice of the cold, terrible mutton.

"Life," said Milbrey, as he inflated his brandy from the siphon, "is an empty dream this morning."

"Wake up then, old chap!" Mauburn cordially urged, engaging the game pie in deadly conflict;
"try a rasher; nothing like it; better'n peggin' it so early. Never drink till dinner-time,
old chap, and you'll be able to eat in the morning like--like a blooming baby." And he proceeded
to crown this notion of infancy's breakfast with a jam tart of majestic proportions.

"Where are the people?" inquired Milbrey, eking out his own moist breakfast with a cigarette.

"All down and out except some of the women. Miss Bines just drove off a four-in-hand with the
two Angsteads--held the reins like an old whip, too, by Jove; but they'll be back for luncheon;--and
directly after luncheon she's promised to ride with me. I fancy we'll have a little practice
over the sticks."

"And I fancy I'm going straight back to bed,--that is, if it's all right to fancy a thing you're
certain about."

Outside most of the others had scattered for life in the open, each to his taste. Some were
on the links. Some had gone with the coach. A few had ridden early to the meet of the Essex
hounds near Easthampton, where a stiff run was expected. Others had gone to follow the hunt
in traps. A lively group came back now to read the morning papers by the log-fire in the big
cheery hall. Among these were Percival and Miss Milbrey. When they had dawdled over the papers
for an hour Miss Milbrey grew slightly restive.

"Why doesn't he have it over?" she asked herself, with some impatience. And she delicately
gave Percival, not an opportunity, but opportunities to make an opportunity, which is a vastly
different form of procedure.

But the luncheon hour came and people straggled back, and the afternoon began, and the request
for Miss Milbrey's heart and hand was still unaccountably deferred. Nor could she feel any
of those subtle premonitions that usually warn a woman when the event is preparing in a lover's
secret heart.

Reminding herself of his letters, she began to suspect that, while he could write unreservedly,
he might be shy and reluctant of speech; and that shyness now deterred him. So much being clear,
she determined to force the issue and end the strain for both.

Percival had shown not a little interest in pretty Mrs. Akemit, and was now talking with that
fascinating creature as she lolled on a low seat before the fire in her lacy blue house-gown.
At the moment she was adroitly posing one foot and then the other before the warmth of the
grate. It may be disclosed without damage to this tale that the feet of Mrs. Akemit were not
cold; but that they were trifles most daintily shod, and, as her slender silken ankles curved
them toward the blaze from her froth of a petticoat, they were worth looking at.

Miss Milbrey disunited the chatting couple with swiftness and aplomb.

"Come, Mr. Bines, if I'm to take that tramp you made me promise you, it's time we were off."

Outside she laughed deliciously. "You know you did make me promise it mentally, because I knew
you'd want to come and want me to come, but I was afraid Mrs. Akemit mightn't understand about
telepathy, so I pretended we'd arranged it all in words."

"Of course! Great joke, wasn't it?" assented the young man, rather awkwardly.

Down the broad sweep of roadway, running between its granite coping, they strode at a smart pace.

"You know you complimented my walking powers on that other walk we took, away off there where
the sun goes down."

"Yes, of course," he replied absently.

"Now, he's beginning," she said to herself, noting his absent and somewhat embarrassed manner.

In reality he was thinking how few were the days ago he would have held this the dearest of
all privileges, and how strange that he should now prize it so lightly, almost prefer, indeed,
not to have it; that he should regard her, of all women, "the fairest of all flesh on earth"
with nervous distrust.

She was dressed in tan corduroy; elation was in her face; her waist, as she stepped, showed
supple as a willow; her suede-gloved little hands were compact and tempting to his grasp. His
senses breathed the air of her perfect and compelling femininity. But sharper than all these
impressions rang the words of the worldly-wise Higbee: "She's hunting night and day for a rich
husband; she tries for them as fast as they come; she'd rather marry a sub-treasury--she'd
marry me in a minute--she'd marry YOU; but if you were broke she'd have about as much use for
you...."

Her glance was frank, friendly, and encouraging. Her deep eyes were clear as a trout-brook.
He thought he saw in them once almost a tenderness for him.

She thought, "He does love me!"

Outside the grounds they turned down a bridle-path that led off through the woods--off through
the golden sun-wine of an October day. The air bore a clean autumn spice, and a faint salty
scent blended with it from the distant Sound. The autumn silence, which is the only perfect
silence in all the world, was restful, yet full of significance, suggestion, provocation. From
the spongy lowland back of them came the pleading sweetness of a meadow-lark's cry. Nearer
they could even hear an occasional leaf flutter and waver down. The quick thud of a falling
nut was almost loud enough to earn its echo. Now and then they saw a lightning flash of vivid
turquoise and heard a jay's harsh scream.

In this stillness their voices instinctively lowered, while their eyes did homage to the wondrous
play of colour about them. Over a yielding brown carpet they went among maple and chestnut
and oak, with their bewildering changes through crimson, russet, and amber to pale yellow;
under the deep-stained leaves of the sweet-gum they went, and past the dogwood with scarlet
berries gemming the clusters of its dim red leaves.

But through all this waiting, inciting silence Miss Milbrey listened in vain for the words
she had felt so certain would come.

Sometimes her companion was voluble; again he was taciturn--and through it all he was doggedly
aloof.

Miss Milbrey had put herself bravely in the path of Destiny. Destiny had turned aside. She
had turned to meet it, and now it frankly fled. Destiny, as she had construed it, was turned
a fugitive. She was bruised, puzzled, and not a little piqued. During the walk back, when this
much had been made clear, the silence was intolerably oppressive. Without knowing why, they
understood perfectly now that neither had been ingenuous.

"She would love the money and play me for a fool," he thought, under the surface talk. Youth
is prone to endow its opinions with all the dignity of certain knowledge.

"Yet I am certain he loves me," thought she. On the other hand, youth is often gifted with
a credulity divine and unerring.

At the door as they came up the roadway a trap was depositing a man whom Miss Milbrey greeted
with evident surprise and some restraint. He was slight, dark, and quick of movement, with
finely cut nostrils that expanded and quivered nervously like those of a high-bred horse in
tight check.

Miss Milbrey introduced him to Percival as Mr. Ristine.

"I didn't know you were hereabouts," she said.

"I've run over from the Bloynes to dine and do Hallowe'en with you," he answered, flashing
his dark eyes quickly over Percival and again lighting the girl with them.

"Surprises never come singly," she returned, and Percival noted a curious little air of defiance
in her glance and manner.

Now it is possible that Solomon's implied distinction as to the man's way with a maid was not,
after all, so ill advised.

For young Bines, after dinner, fell in love with Miss Milbrey all over again. The normal human
mind going to one extreme will inevitably gravitate to its opposite if given time. Having put
her away in the conviction that she was heartless and mercenary--having fasted in the desert
of doubt--he now found himself detecting in her an unmistakable appeal for sympathy, for human
kindness, perhaps for love. He forgot the words of Higbee and became again the confident, unquestioning
lover. He noted her rather subdued and reserved demeanour, and the suggestions of weariness
about her eyes. They drew him. He resolved at once to seek her and give his love freedom to
tell itself. He would no longer meanly restrain it. He would even tell her all his distrust.
Now that they had gone she should know every ignoble suspicion; and, whether she cared for
him or not, she would comfort him for the hurt they had been to him.

The Hallowe'en frolic was on. Through the long hall, lighted to pleasant dusk by real Jack-o'-lanterns,
stray couples strolled, with subdued murmurs and soft laughter. In the big white and gold parlour,
in the dining-room, billiard-room, and in the tropic jungle of the immense palm-garden the
party had bestowed itself in congenial groups, ever intersecting and forming anew. Little flutters
of high laughter now and then told of tests that were being made with roasting chestnuts, apple-parings,
the white of an egg dropped into water, or the lighted candle before an open window.

Percival watched for the chance to find Miss Milbrey alone. His sister had just ventured alone
with a candle into the library to study the face of her future husband in a mirror. The result
had been, in a sense, unsatisfactory. She had beheld looking over her shoulder the faces of
Mauburn, Fred Milbrey, and the Angstead twins, and had declared herself unnerved by the weird
prophecy.

Before the fire in the hall Percival stood while Mrs. Akemit reclined picturesquely near by,
and Doctor von Herzlich explained, with excessive care as to his enunciation, that protoplasm
can be analysed but cannot be reconstructed; following this with his own view as to why the
synthesis does not produce life.

"You wonderful man!" from Mrs. Akemit; "I fairly tremble when I think of all you know. Oh,
what a delight science must be to her votaries!"

The Angstead twins joined the group, attracted by Mrs. Akemit's inquiry of the savant if he
did not consider civilisation a failure. The twins did. They considered civilisation a failure
because it was killing off all the big game. There was none to speak of left now except in
Africa; and they were pessimistic about Africa.

Percival listened absently to the talk and watched Miss Milbrey, now one of the group in the
dining-room. Presently he saw her take a lighted candle from one of the laughing girls and
go toward the library.

His heart-beats quickened. Now she should know his love and it would be well. He walked down
the hall leisurely, turned into the big parlour, momentarily deserted, walked quickly but softly
over its polished floor to a door that gave into the library, pushed the heavy portiere aside
and stepped noiselessly in.

The large room was lighted dimly by two immense yellow pumpkins, their sides cut into faces
of grinning grotesqueness. At the far side of the room Miss Milbrey had that instant arrived
before an antique oval mirror whose gilded carvings reflected the light of the candle. She
held it above her head with one rounded arm. He stood in deep shadow and the girl had been
too absorbed in the play to note his coming. He took one noiseless step toward her, but then
through the curtained doorway by which she had come he saw a man enter swiftly and furtively.

Trembling on the verge of laughing speech, something held him back, some unexplainable instinct,
making itself known in a thrill that went from his feet to his head; he could feel the roots
of his hair tingle. The newcomer went quickly, with catlike tread, toward the girl. Fascinated
he stood, wanting to speak, to laugh, yet powerless from the very swiftness of what followed.

In the mirror under the candle-light he saw the man's dark face come beside the other, heard
a little cry from the girl as she half-turned; then he saw the man take her in his arms, saw
her head fall on to his shoulder, and her face turn to his kiss.

He tried to stop breathing, fearful of discovery, grasping with one hand the heavy fold of
the curtain back of him to steady himself.

There was the space of two long, trembling breaths; then he heard her say, in a low, tense
voice, as she drew away:

"Oh, you are my bad angel--why?--why?"

She fled toward the door to the hall.

"Don't come this way," she called back, in quick, low tones of caution.

The man turned toward the door where Percival stood, and in the darkness stumbled over a hassock.
Instantly Percival was on the other side of the portiere, and, before the other had groped
his way to the dark corner where the door was, had recrossed the empty parlour and was safely
in the hall.

He made his way to the dining-room, where supper was under way.

"Mr. Bines has seen a ghost," said the sharp-eyed Mrs. Drelmer.

"Poor chap's only starved to death," said Mrs. Gwilt-Athelstan. "Eat something, Mr. Bines;
this supper is go-as-you-please. Nobody's to wait for anybody."

Strung loosely about the big table a dozen people were eating hot scones and bannocks with
clotted cream and marmalade, and drinking mulled cider.

"And there's cold fowl and baked beans and doughnuts and all, for those who can't eat with
a Scotch accent," said the host, cheerfully.

Percival dropped into one of the chairs.

"I'm Scotch enough to want a Scotch high-ball."

"And you're getting it so high it's top-heavy," cautioned Mrs. Drelmer.

Above the chatter of the table could be heard the voices of men and the musical laughter of
women from the other rooms.

"I simply can't get 'em together," said the hostess.

"It's nice to have 'em all over the place," said her husband, "fair women and brave men, you know."

"The men have to be brave," she answered, shortly, with a glance at little Mrs. Akemit, who
had permitted Percival to seat her at his side, and was now pleading with him to agree that
simple ways of life are requisite to the needed measure of spirituality.

Then came strains of music from the rich-toned organ.

"Oh, that dear Ned Ristine is playing," cried one; and several of the group sauntered toward
the music-room.

The music flooded the hall and the room, so that the talk died low.

"He's improvising," exclaimed Mrs. Akemit. "How splendid! He seems to be breathing a paean
of triumph, some high, exalted spiritual triumph, as if his soul had risen above us--how precious!"

When the deep swell had subsided to silvery ripples and the last cadence had fainted, she looked
at Percival with moistened parted lips and eyes half-shielded, as if her full gaze would betray
too much of her quivering soul.

Then Percival heard the turquoised brunette say: "What a pity his wife is such an unsympathetic
creature!"

"But Mr. Ristine is unmarried, is he not?" he asked, quickly.

There was a little laugh from Mrs. Drelmer.

"Not yet--not that I've heard of."

"I beg pardon!"

"There have been rumours lots of times that he was going to be unmarried, but they always seem
to adjust their little difficulties. He and his wife are now staying over at the Bloynes."

"Oh! I see," answered Percival; "you're a jester, Mrs. Drelmer."

"Ristine," observed the theosophic Wilberforce, in the manner of a hired oracle, "is, in his
present incarnation, imperfectly monogamous."

Some people came from the music-room.

"Miss Milbrey has stayed by the organist," said one; "and she's promised to make him play one
more. Isn't he divine?"

The music came again.

"Oh!" from Mrs. Akemit, again in an ecstasy, '"' he's playing that heavenly stuff from the
second act of 'Tristan and Isolde'--the one triumphant, perfect love-poem of all music."

"That Scotch whiskey is good in some of the lesser emergencies," remarked Percival, turning
to her; "but it has its limitations. Let's you and me trifle with a nice cold quart of champagne!"

CHAPTER XX.

Doctor Von Herzlich Expounds the Hightower Hotel and Certain Allied Phenomena

The Hightower Hotel is by many observers held to be an instructive microcosm of New York, more
especially of upper Broadway, with correct proportions of the native and the visiting provincial.
With correct proportions, again, of the money-making native and the money-spending native,
male and female. A splendid place is this New York; splendid but terrible. London for the stranger
has a steady-going, hearty hospitality. Paris on short notice will be cosily and coaxingly
intimate. New York is never either. It overwhelms with its lavish display of wealth, it stuns
with its tireless, battering energy. But it stays always aloof, indifferent if it be loved
or hated; if it crush or sustain.

The ground floor of the Hightower Hotel reproduces this magnificent, brutal indifference. One
might live years in its mile or so of stately corridors and its acre or so of resplendent cafes,
parlours, reception-rooms, and restaurants, elbowed by thousands, suffocated by that dense
air of human crowdedness, that miasma of brain emanations, and still remain in splendid isolation,
as had he worn the magic ring of Gyges. Here is every species of visitor: the money-burdened
who "stop" here and cultivate an air of being blase to the wealth of polished splendours; and
the less opulent who "stop" cheaply elsewhere and venture in to tread the corridors timidly,
to stare with honest, drooping-jawed wonder at its marvels of architecture and decoration,
and to gaze with becoming reverence at those persons whom they shrewdly conceive to be social
celebrities.

This mixture of many and strange elements is never at rest. Its units wait expectantly, chat,
drink, eat, or stroll with varying airs through reception-room, corridor, and office. It is
an endless function, attended by all of Broadway, with entertainment diversely contrived for
every taste by a catholic-minded host with a sincere desire to please the paying public.

"Isn't it a huge bear-garden, though?" asks Launton Oldaker of the estimable Doctor von Herzlich,
after the two had observed the scene in silence for a time.

The wise German dropped an olive into his Rhine wine, and gazed reflectively about the room.
Men and women sat at tables drinking. Beyond the tables at the farther side of the room, other
men were playing billiards. It was four o'clock and the tide was high.

"It is yet more," answered the doctor. "In my prolonged studies of natural phenomena this is
the most valuable of all which I have been privileged to observe."

He called them "brifiletched" and "awbsairf" with great nicety. Perhaps his discernment was
less at fault.

"Having," continued the doctor, "granted myself some respite from toil in the laboratory at
Marburg, I chose to pleasure voyage, to study yet more the social conditions in this loveworthy
land. I suspected that much tiredness of travel would be involved. Yet here I find all conditions
whatsoever--here in that which you denominate 'bear-garden'. They have been reduced here for
my edification, yes? But your term is a term of inadequate comprehensiveness. It is to me more
what you call a 'beast-garden,' to include all species of fauna. Are there not here moths and
human flames? are there not cunning serpents crawling with apples of knowledge to unreluctant,
idling Eves, yes? Do we not hear the amazing converse of parrots and note the pea-fowl negotiating
admiration from observers? Mark at that yet farther table also the swine and the song-bird;
again, mark our draught-horses who have achieved a competence, yes? You note also the presence
of wolves and lambs. And, endly, mark our tailed arborean ancestors, trained to the wearing
of garments and a single eye-glass. May I ask, have you bestowed upon this diversity your completest
high attention? Hanh!"

This explosion of the doctor's meant that he invited and awaited some contradiction. As none
ensued, he went on:

"For wolf and lamb I direct your attention to the group at yonder table. I notice that you
greeted the young man as he entered--a common friend to us then--Mr. Bines, with financial
resources incredibly unlimited? Also he is possessed of an unexperienced freedom from suspectedness-of-ulterior-motive-in-others--one
may not in English as in German make the word to fit his need of the moment--that unsuspectedness,
I repeat, which has ever characterised the lamb about to be converted into nutrition. You note
the large, loose gentleman with wide-brimmed hat and beard after my own, somewhat, yes? He
would dispose of some valuable oil-wells which he shall discover at Texas the moment he shall
have sufficiently disposed of them. A wolf he is, yes? The more correctly attired person at
his right, with the beak of a hawk and lips so thin that his big white teeth gleam through
them when they are yet shut, he is what he calls himself a promoter. He has made sundry efforts
to promote myself. I conclude 'promoter' is one other fashion of wolf-saying. The yet littler
and yet younger man at his left of our friend, the one of soft voice and insinuating manner,
much resembling a stray scion of aristocracy, discloses to those with whom he affably acquaints
himself the location of a luxurious gaming house not far off; he will even consent to accompany
one to its tables; and still yet he has but yesterday evening invited me the all-town to see.

"As a scientist, I remind you, I permit myself no prejudices. I observe the workings of unemotional
law and sometimes record them. You have a saying here that there are three generations between
shirt-sleeves and shirt-sleeves. I observe the process of the progress. It is benign as are
all processes. I have lately observed it in England. There, by their law of entail, the same
process is unswifter,--yet does it unvary. The poor aristocrats, almost back to shirt-sleeves,
with their taxes and entailed lands, seek for the money in shops of dress and bonnet and ale,
and graciously rent their castles to the but-newly-opulent in American oil or the diamonds
of South Africa. Here the posterity of your Mynherr Knickerbocker do likewise. The ancestor
they boast was a toiler, a market-gardener, a fur-trader, a boatman, hardworking, simple-wayed,
unspending. The woman ancestor kitchen-gardened, spun, wove, and nourished the poultry. Their
descendants upon the savings of these labours have forgotten how to labour themselves. They
could not yet produce should they even relinquish the illusion that to produce is of a baseness,
that only to consume is noble. I gather reports that a few retain enough of the ancient strain
to become sturdy tradesmen and gardeners once more. Others seek out and assimilate this new-richness,
which, in its turn, will become impoverished and helpless. Ah, what beautiful showing of Evolution!

"See the pendulum swing from useful penury to useless opulence. Why does it not halt midway,
you inquire? Because the race is so young. Ach! a mere two hundred and forty million years
from our grandfather-grandmother amoeba in the ancestral morass! What can one be expecting?
Certain faculties develop in response to the pressure of environment. Omit the pressure and
the faculties no longer ensue. Yes? Withdraw the pressure, and the faculties decay. Sightless
moles, their environment demands not the sight; nor of the fishes that inhabit the streams
of your Mammoth Cave. Your aristocrats between the sleeve-of-the-shirt periods likewise degenerate.
There is no need to work, they lose the power. No need to sustain themselves, they become helpless.
They are as animals grown in an environment that demands no struggle of them. Yet their environment
is artificial. They live on stored energy, stored by another. It is exhausted, they perish.
All but the few that can modify to correspond with the changed environment, as when your social
celebrities venture into trade, and the also few that in their life of idleness have acquired
graces of person and manner to let them find pleasure in the eyes of marryers among the but-now-rich."

The learned doctor submitted to have his glass refilled from the cooler at his side, dropped
another olive into the wine, and resumed before Oldaker could manage an escape.

"And how long, you ask, shall the cosmic pendulum swing between these extremes of penurious
industry and opulent idleness?"

Oldaker had not asked it. But he tried politely to appear as if he had meant to. He had really
meant to ask the doctor what time it was and then pretend to recall an engagement for which
he would be already late.

"It will so continue," the doctor placidly resumed, "until the race achieves a different ideal.
Now you will say, but there can be no ideal so long as there is no imagination; and as I have
directly--a moment-soon--said, the race is too young to have achieved imagination. The highest
felicity which we are yet able to imagine is a felicity based upon much money; our highest
pleasures the material pleasures which money buys, yes? We strive for it, developing the money-getting
faculty at the expense of all others; and when the money is obtained we cannot enjoy it. We
can imagine to do with it only delicate-eating and drinking and dressing for show-to-others
and building houses immense and splendidly uncalculated for homes of rational dwelling. Art,
science, music, literature, sociology, the great study and play of our humanity, they are shut
to us.

"Our young friend Bines is a specimen. It is as if he were a child, having received from another
a laboratory full of the most beautiful instruments of science. They are valuable, but he can
do but common things with them because he knows not their possibilities. Or, we may call it
stored energy he has; for such is money, the finest, subtlest, most potent form of stored energy;
it may command the highest fruits of genius, the lowest fruits of animality; it is also volatile,
elusive. Our young friend has many powerful batteries of it. But he is no electrician. Some
he will happily waste without harm to himself. Much of it, apparently, he will convert into
that champagne he now drinks. For a week since I had the pleasure of becoming known to him
he has drunk it here each day, copiously. He cannot imagine a more salutary mode of exhausting
his force. I am told he comes of a father who died at fifty, and who did in many ways like
that. This one, at the rate I have observed, will not last so long. He will not so long correspond
with an environment even so unexacting as this. And his son, perhaps his grandson, will become
what you call broke; will from lack of pressure to learn some useful art, and from spending
only, become useless and helpless. For besides drink, there is gambling. He plays what you
say, the game of poker, this Bines. You see the gentleman, rounded gracefully in front, who
has much the air of seeming to stand behind himself,--he drinks whiskey at my far right, yes?
He is of a rich trust, the magnate-director as you say, and plays at cards nightly with our
young friend. He jested with him in my presence before you entered, saying, 'I will make you
look like'--I forget it now, but his humourous threat was to reduce our young friend to the
aspect of some inconsiderable sum in the money of your country. I cannot recall the precise
amount, but it was not so much as what you call one dollar. Strange, is it not, that the rich
who have too much money gamble as feverishly as the poor who have none, and therefore have
an excuse? And the love of display-for-display. If one were not a scientist one might be tempted
to say there is no progress. The Peruvian grandee shod his mules with pure gold, albeit that
metal makes but inferior shodding for beasts of burden. The London factory girl hires the dyed
feathers of the ostrich to make her bonnet gay; and your money people are as display-loving.
Lucullus and your latest millionaire joy in the same emotion of pleasure at making a show.
Ach! we are truly in the race's childhood yet. The way of evolution is so unfast, yes? Ah!
you will go now, Mr. Oldaker. I shall hope to enjoy you more again. Your observations have
interested me deeply; they shall have my most high attention. Another time you shall discuss
with me how it must be that the cosmic process shall produce a happy mean between stoic and
epicure, by learning the valuable arts of compromise, yes? How Zeno with his bread and dates
shall learn not to despise a few luxuries, and Vitellius shall learn that the mind may sometimes
feast to advantage while the body fasts."

Through the marbled corridors and regal parlours, down long perspectives of Persian rugs and
onyx pillars, the function raged.

The group at Percival's table broke up. He had an appointment to meet Colonel Poindexter the
next morning to consummate the purchase of some oil stock certain to appreciate fabulously
in value. He had promised to listen further to Mr. Isidore Lewis regarding a plan for obtaining
control of a certain line of one of the metal stocks. And he had signified his desire to make
one of a party the affable younger man would guide later in the evening to a sumptuous temple
of chance, to which, by good luck, he had gained the entree. The three gentlemen parted most
cordially from him after he had paid the check.

To Mr. Lewis, when Colonel Poindexter had also left, the young man with a taste for gaming
remarked, ingenuously:

"Say, Izzy, on the level, there's the readiest money that ever registered at this joint. You
don't have to be Mr. William Wisenham to do business with him. You can have all you want of
that at track odds."

"I'm making book that way myself," responded the cheerful Mr. Lewis; "fifty'll get you a thousand
any time, my lad. It's a lead-pipe at twenty to one. But say, with all these Petroleum Pete
oil-stock grafters and Dawson City Daves with frozen feet and mining-stock in their mitts,
a man's got to play them close in to his bosom to win out anything. Competition is killing
this place, my boy."

In the Turkish room Percival found Mrs. Akemit, gowned to perfection, glowing, and wearing
a bunch of violets bigger than her pretty head.

"I've just sent cards to your mother and sister," she explained, as she made room for him upon
the divan.

To them came presently Mrs. Drelmer, well-groomed and aggressively cheerful.

"How de do! Just been down to Wall Street seeing how my other half lives, and now I'm famished
for tea and things. Ah! here are your mother and our proud Western beauty!" And she went forward
to greet them.

"It's more than her other half knows about her," was Mrs. Akemit's observation to the violets
on her breast.

"Come sit with me here in this corner, dear," said Mrs. Drelmer to Psyche, while Mrs. Bines
joined her son and Mrs. Akemit. "I've so much to tell you. And that poor little Florence Akemit,
isn't it too bad about her. You know one of those bright French women said it's so inconvenient
to be a widow because it's necessary to resume the modesty of a young girl without being able
to feign her ignorance. No wonder Florence has a hard time of it; but isn't it wretched of
me to gossip? And I wanted to tell you especially about Mr. Mauburn. You know of course he'll
be Lord Casselthorpe when the present Lord Casselthorpe dies; a splendid title, really quite
one of the best in all England; and, my dear, he's out-and-out smitten with you; there's no
use in denying it; you should hear him rave to me about you; really these young men in love
are so inconsiderate of us old women. Ah! here is that Mrs. Errol who does those fascinating
miniatures of all the smart people. Excuse me one moment, my dear; I want her to meet your mother."

The fashionable miniature artist was presently arranging with the dazed Mrs. Bines for miniatures
of herself and Psyche. Mrs. Drelmer, beholding the pair with the satisfied glance of one who
has performed a kindly action, resumed her tete-a-tete with Psyche.

Percival, across the room, listened to Mrs. Akemit's artless disclosure that she found life
too complex--far too hazardous, indeed, for a poor little creature in her unfortunate position,
so liable to cruel misjudgment for thoughtless, harmless acts, the result of a young zest for
life. She had often thought most seriously of a convent, indeed she had--"and, really, Mr.
Bines, I'm amazed that I talk this way--so freely to you--you know, when I've known you so
short a time; but something in you compels my confidences, poor little me! and my poor little
confidences! One so seldom meets a man nowadays with whom one can venture to talk about any
of the real things!"

A little later, as Mrs. Drelmer was leaving, the majestic figure of the Baron Ronault de Palliac
framed itself in the handsome doorway. He sauntered in, as if to give the picture tone, and
then with purposeful air took the seat Mrs. Drelmer had just vacated. Miss Bines had been entertained
by involuntary visions of herself as Lady Casselthorpe. She now became in fancy the noble Baroness
de Palliac, speaking faultless French and consorting with the rare old families of the Faubourg
St. Germain. For, despite his artistic indirection, the baron's manner was conclusive, his
intentions unmistakable.

And this day was much like many days in the life of the Bines and in the life of the Hightower
Hotel. The scene from parlour to cafe was surveyed at intervals by a quiet-mannered person
with watchful eyes, who appeared to enjoy it as one upon whom it conferred benefits. Now he
washed his hands in the invisible sweet waters of satisfaction, and murmured softly to himself,
"Setters and Buyers!" Perhaps the term fits the family of Bines as well as might many another
coined especially for it.

When the three groups in the Turkish room dissolved, Percival with his mother and sister went
to their suite on the fourth floor.

"Think of a real live French nobleman!" cried Psyche, with enthusiasm, "and French must be
such a funny language--he talks such funny English. I wish now I'd learned more of it at the
Sem, and talked more with that French Delpasse girl that was always toasting marshmallows on
a hat-pin."

"That lady Mrs. Drelmer introduced me to," said Mrs. Bines, "is an artist, miniature artist,
hand-painted you know, and she's going to paint our miniatures for a thousand dollars each
because we're friends of Mrs. Drelmer."

"Oh, yes," exclaimed Psyche, with new enthusiasm, "and Mrs. Drelmer has promised to teach me
bridge whist if I'll go to her house to-morrow. Isn't she kind? Really, every one must play
bridge now, she tells me."

"Well, ladies," said the son and brother, "I'm glad to see you both getting some of the white
meat. I guess we'll do well here. I'm going into oil stock and lead, myself."

"How girlish your little friend Mrs. Akemit is!" said his mother. "How did she come to lose
her husband?"

"Lost him in South Dakota," replied her son, shortly.

"Divorced, ma," explained Psyche, "and Mrs. Drelmer says her family's good, but she's too gay."

"Ah!" exclaimed Percival, "Mrs. Drelmer's hammer must be one of those cute little gold ones,
all set with precious stones. As a matter of fact, she's anything but gay. She's sad. She couldn't
get along with her husband because he had no dignity of soul."

He became conscious of sympathising generously with all men not thus equipped.

CHAPTER XXI.

The Diversions of a Young Multi-millionaire

To be idle and lavish of money, twenty-five years old, with the appetites keen and the need
for action always pressing; then to have loved a girl with quick, strong, youthful ardour,
and to have had the ideal smirched by gossip, then shattered before his amazed eyes,--this
is a situation in which the male animal is apt to behave inequably. In the language of the
estimable Herr Doctor von Herzlich, he will seek those avenues of modification in which the
least struggle is required. In the simpler phrasing of Uncle Peter Bines, he will "cut loose."

During the winter that now followed Percival Bines behaved according to either formula, as
the reader may prefer. He early ascertained his limitations with respect to New York and its
people.

"Say, old man," he asked Herbert Delancey Livingston one night, across the table at their college
club, "are all the people in New York society impecunious?"

Livingston had been with him at Harvard, and Livingston's family was so notoriously not impecunious
that the question was devoid of any personal element. Livingston, moreover, had dined just
unwisely enough to be truthful.

"Well, to be candid with you, Bines," the young man had replied, in a burst of alcoholic confidence,
"about all that you are likely to meet are broke--else you wouldn't meet 'em, you know," he
explained cheerfully. "You know, old chap, a few of you Western people have got into the right
set here; there's the Nesbits, for instance. On my word the good wife and mother hasn't the
kinks out of her fingers yet, nor the callouses from her hands, by Jove! She worked so hard
cooking and washing woollen shirts for miners before Nesbit made his strike. As for him--well
caviare, I'm afraid, will always be caviare to Jimmy Nesbit. And now the son's married a girl
that had everything but money--my boy, Nellie Wemple has fairly got that family of Nesbits
awestricken since she married into it, just by the way she can spend money--but what was I
saying, old chap? Oh, yes, about getting in--it takes time, you know; on my word, I think they
were as much as eight years, and had to start in abroad at that. At first, you know, you can
only expect to meet a crowd that can't afford to be exclusive any longer."

From which friendly counsel, and from certain confirming observations of his own, Percival
had concluded that his lot in New York was to spend money. This he began to do with a large
Western carelessness that speedily earned him fame of a sort. Along upper Broadway, his advent
was a golden joy. Tradesmen learned to love him; florists, jewelers, and tailors hailed his
coming with honest fervour; waiters told moving tales of his tips; cabmen fought for the privilege
of transporting him; and the hangers-on of rich young men picked pieces of lint assiduously
and solicitously from his coat.

One of his favourite resorts was the sumptuous gambling-house in Forty-fourth Street. The man
who slides back the panel of the stout oaken door early learned to welcome him through the
slit, barred by its grill of wrought iron. The attendant who took his coat and hat, the waiter
who took his order for food, and the croupier who took his money, were all gladdened by his
coming; for his gratuities were as large when he lost as when he won Even the reserved proprietor,
accustomed as he was to a wealthy and careless clientele, treated Percival with marked consideration
after a night when the young man persuaded him to withdraw the limit at roulette, and spent
a large sum in testing a system for breaking the wheel, given to him by a friend lately returned
from Monte Carlo.

"I think, really the fellow who gave me that system is an ass," he said, lighting a cigarette
when the play was done. "Now I'm going down and demolish eight dollars' worth of food and drink--you
won't be all to the good on that, you know."

His host decided that a young man who was hungry, after losing a hundred thousand dollars in
five hours' play, was a person to be not lightly considered.

And, though he loved the rhythmic whir and the ensuing rattle of the little ivory ball at the
roulette wheel, he did not disdain the quieter faro, playing that dignified game exclusively
with the chocolate-coloured chips, which cost a thousand dollars a stack. Sometimes he won;
but not often enough to disturb his host's belief that there is less of chance in his business
than in any other known to the captains of industry.

There were, too, sociable games of poker, played with Garmer, of the Lead Trust, Burman, the
intrepid young wheat operator from Chicago, and half a dozen other well-moneyed spirits; games
in which the limit, to use the Chicagoan's phrase, was "the beautiful but lofty North Star."
At these games he lost even more regularly than at those where, with the exception of a trifling
percentage, he was solely at the mercy of chance. But he was a joyous loser, endearing himself
to the other players; to Garmer, whom Burman habitually accused of being "closer than a warm
night," as well as to the open-handed son of the chewing-gum magnate, who had been raised abroad
and who protested nightly that there was an element of beastly American commercialism in the
game. When Percival was by some chance absent from a sitting, the others calculated the precise
sum he probably would have lost and humourously acquainted him with the amount by telegraph
next morning,--it was apt to be nine hundred and some odd dollars,--requesting that he cover
by check at his early convenience.

Yet the diversion was not all gambling. There were Jong sessions at all-night restaurants where
the element of chance in his favour, inconspicuous elsewhere, was wholly eliminated; suppers
for hungry Thespians and thirsty parasites, protracted with song and talk until the gas-flames
grew pale yellow, and the cabmen, when the party went out into the wan light, would be low-voiced,
confidential, and suggestive in their approaches.

Broadway would be weirdly quiet at such times, save for the occasional frenzied clatter of
a hurrying milk-wagon. Even the cars seemed to move with less sound than by day, and the early-rising
workers inside, holding dinner-pails and lunch-baskets, were subdued and silent, yet strangely
observing, as if the hour were one in which the vision was made clear to appraise the values
of life justly. To the north, whence the cars bulked silently, would be an awakening sky of
such tender beauty that the revellers often paid it the tribute of a moment's notice.

"Pure turquoise," one would declare.

"With just a dash of orange bitters in it," another might add.

And then perhaps they burst into song under the spell, blending their voices into what the
professional gentlemen termed "barber-shop harmonies," until a policeman would saunter across
the street, pretending, however, that he was not aware of them.

Then perhaps a ride toward the beautiful northern sky would be proposed, whereupon three or
four hansom or coupe loads would begin a journey that wound up through Central Park toward
the northern light, but which never attained a point remoter than some suburban road-house,
where sleepy cooks and bartenders would have to be routed out to collaborate toward breakfast.

Oftener the party fell away into straggling groups with notions for sleep, chanting at last,
perhaps:

"While beer brings gladness, don't forget That water only makes you wet!"

Percival would walk to the hotel, sobered and perhaps made a little reflective by the unwonted
quiet. But they were pleasant, careless folk, he concluded always. They permitted him to spend
his money, but he was quite sure they would spend it as freely as he if they had it. More than
one appreciative soubrette, met under such circumstances, was subsequently enabled to laud
the sureness of his taste in jewels,--he cared little for anything but large diamonds, it transpired.
It was a feeling tribute paid to his munificence by one of these in converse with a sister
artist, who had yet to meet him:

"Say, Myrtle, on the dead, he spends money just like a young Jew trying to be white!"

Under this more or less happy surface of diversion, however, was an experience decidedly less
felicitous. He knew he should not, must not, hold Avice Milbrey in his mind; yet when he tried
to put her out it hurt him.

At first he had plumed himself upon his lucky escape that night, when he would have declared
his love to her. To have married a girl who cared only for his money; that would have been
dire enough. But to marry a girl like that! He had been lucky indeed!

Yet, as the weeks went by the shock of the scene wore off. The scene itself remained clear,
with the grinning grotesquerie of the Jack-o'-lanterns lighting it and mocking his simplicity.
But the first sharp physical hurt had healed. He was forced to admit that the girl still had
power to trouble him. At times his strained nerves would relax to no other device than the
picturing of her as his own. Exactly in the measure that he indulged this would his pride smart.
With a budding gift for negation he could imagine her caring for nothing but his money; and
there was that other picture, swift and awful, a pantomime in shadow, with the leering yellow
faces above it.

In the far night, when he awoke to sudden and hungry aloneness, he would let his arms feel
their hunger for her. The vision of her would be flowers and music and sunlight and time and
all things perfect to mystify and delight, to satisfy and--greatest of all boons--to unsatisfy.
The thought of her became a rest-house for all weariness; a haven where he was free to choose
his nook and lie down away from all that was not her, which was all that was not beautiful.
He would go back to seek the lost sweetness of their first meeting; to mount the poor dead
belief that she would care for him--that he could make her care for him--and endow the thing
with artificial life, trying to capture the faint breath of it; but the memory was always fleeting,
attenuated, like the spirit of the memory of a perfume that had been elusive at best. And always,
to banish what joy even this poor device might bring, came the more vivid vision of the brutal,
sordid facts. He forced himself to face them regularly as a penance and a corrective.

They came before him with especial clearness when he met her from time to time during the winter.
He watched her in talk with others, noting the contradiction in her that she would at one moment
appear knowing and masterful, with depths of reserve that the other people neither fathomed
nor knew of; and at another moment frankly girlish, with an appealing feminine helplessness
which is woman's greatest strength, coercing every strong masculine instinct.

When the reserve showed in her, he became afraid. What was she not capable of? In the other
mood, frankly appealing, she drew him mightily, so that he abandoned himself for the moment,
responding to her fresh exulting youth, longing to take her, to give her things, to make her
laugh, to enfold and protect her, to tell her secrets, to feather her cheek with the softest
kiss, to be the child-mate of her.

Toward him, directly, when they met she would sometimes be glacial and forbidding, sometimes
uninterestedly frank, as if they were but the best of commonplace friends. Yet sometimes she
made him feel that she, too, threw herself heartily to rest in the thought of their loving,
and cheated herself, as he did, with dreams of comradeship. She left him at these times with
the feeling that they were deaf, dumb, and blind to each other; that if some means of communication
could be devised, something surer than the invisible play of secret longings, all might yet
be well. They talked as the people about them talked, words that meant nothing to either, and
if there were mute questionings, naked appeals, unuttered declarations, they were only such
as language serves to divert attention from. Speech, doubtless, has its uses as well as its
abuses. Politics, for example, would be less entertaining without it. But in matters of the
heart, certain it is that there would be fewer misunderstandings if it were forbidden between
the couple under the penalty of immediate separation. In this affair real meanings are rarely
conveyed except by silences. Words are not more than tasteless drapery to obscure their lines.
The silence of lovers is the plainest of all speech, warning, disconcerting indeed, by its
very bluntness, any but the truly mated. An hour's silence with these two people by themselves
might have worked wonders.

Another diversion of Percival's during this somewhat feverish winter was Mrs. Akemit. Not only
was she a woman of finished and expert daintiness in dress and manner and surroundings, but
she soothed, flattered, and stimulated him. With the wisdom of her thirty-two years, devoted
chiefly to a study of his species, she took care never to be exigent. She had the way of referring
to herself as "poor little me," yet she never made demands or allowed him to feel that she
expected anything from him in the way of allegiance.

Mrs. Akemit was not only like St. Paul, "all things to all men," but she had gone a step beyond
that excellent theologue. She could be all things to one man. She was light-heartedly frivolous,
soberly reflective, shallow, profound, cynical or naive, ingenuous, or inscrutable. She prized
dearly the ecclesiastical background provided by her uncle, the bishop, and had him to dine
with the same unerring sense of artistry that led her to select swiftly the becoming shade
of sofa-cushion to put her blond head back upon.

The good bishop believed she had jeopardised her soul with divorce. He feared now she meant
to lose it irrevocably through remarriage. As a foil to his austerity, therefore, she would
be audaciously gay in his presence.

"Hell," she said to him one evening, "is given up so reluctantly by those who don't expect
to go there." And while the bishop frowned into his salad she invited Percival to drink with
her in the manner of a woman who is mad to invite perdition. If the good man could have beheld
her before a background of frivolity he might have suffered less anxiety. For there her sense
of contrast-values led her to be grave and deep, to express distaste for society with its hollowness,
and to expose timidly the cruel scars on a soul meant for higher things.

Many afternoons Percival drank tea with her in the little red drawing-room of her dainty apartment
up the avenue. Here in the half light which she had preferred since thirty, in a soft corner
with which she harmonised faultlessly, and where the blaze from the open fire coloured her
animated face just enough, she talked him usually into the glow of a high conceit with himself.
When she dwelt upon the shortcomings of man, she did it with the air of frankly presuming him
to be different from all others, one who could sympathise with her through knowing the frailties
of his sex, yet one immeasurably superior to them. When he was led to talk of himself--of whom,
it seemed, she could never learn enough--he at once came to take high views of himself: to
gaze, through her tactful prompting, with a gentle, purring appreciation upon the manifest
spectacle of his own worth.

Sometimes, away from her, he wondered how she did it. Sometimes, in her very presence, his
sense of humour became alert and suspicious. Part of the time he decided her to be a charming
woman, with a depth and quality of sweetness unguessed by the world. The rest of the time he
remembered a saying about alfalfa made by Uncle Peter: "It's an innocent lookin', triflin'
vegetable, but its roots go right down into the ground a hundred feet."

"My dear," Mrs. Akemit had once confided to an intimate in an hour of negligee, "to meet a
man, any man, from a red-cheeked butcher boy to a bloodless monk, and not make him feel something
new for you--something he never before felt for any other woman--really it's as criminal as
a wrinkled stocking, or for blondes to wear shiny things. Every woman can do it, if she'll
study a little how to reduce them to their least common denominator--how to make them primitive."

Of another member of Mrs. Akemit's household Percival acknowledged the sway with never a misgiving.
He had been the devoted lover of Baby Akemit from the afternoon when he had first cajoled her
into autobiography--a vivid, fire-tipped little thing with her mother's piquancy. He gleaned
that day that she was "a quarter to four years old;" that she was mamma's girl, but papa was
a friend of Santa Claus; that she went to "ball-dances" every day clad in "dest a stirt 'cause
big ladies don't ever wear waist-es at night;" that she had once ridden in a merry-go-round
and it made her "all homesick right here," patting her stomach; and that "elephants are horrid,
but you mustn't be cruel to them and cut their eyes out. Oh, no!"

Her Percival courted with results that left nothing to be desired. She fell to the floor in
helpless, shrieking laughter when he came. In his honour she composed and sang songs to an
improvised and spirited accompaniment upon her toy piano. His favourites among these were "'Cause
Why I Love You" and "Darling, Ask Myself to Come to You." She rendered them with much feeling.
If he were present when her bed-time came she refused to sleep until he had consented to an
interview.

Avice Milbrey had the fortune to witness one of these bed-time causeries. One late afternoon
the young man's summons came while he was one of a group that lingered late about Mrs. Akemit's
little tea-table, Miss Milbrey being of the number.

He followed the maid dutifully out through the hall to the door of the bedroom, and entered
on all-fours with what they two had agreed was the growl of a famished bear.

The familiar performance was viewed by the mother and by Miss Milbrey, whom the mother had
urged to follow. Baby Akemit in her crib, modestly arrayed in blue pajamas, after simulating
the extreme terror required by the situation, fell to chatting, while her mother and Miss Milbrey
looked on from the doorway.

Miss Akemit had once been out in the woods, it appeared, and a "biting-wolf" chased her, and
she ran and ran until she came to a river all full of pigs and fishes and berries, so she jumped
in and had supper, and it wasn't a "biting-wolf" at all--and then--

But the narrative was cut short by her mother.

"Come, Pet! Mr. Bines wishes to go now."

Miss Akemit, it appeared, was bent upon relating the adventures of Goldie Locks, subsequent
to her leap from the window of the bears' house. She had, it seemed, been compelled to ride
nine-twenty miles on a trolley, and, reaching home too late for luncheon, had been obliged
to eat in the kitchen with the cook.

"Mr. Bines can't stay, darling!"

Baby Akemit calculated briefly, and consented to his departure if Mr. Bines would bring her
something next time.

Mr. Bines promised, and moved away after the customary embrace, but she was not through:

"Oh! oh! go out like a bear! dere's a bear come in here!"

And so, having brought the bear in, he was forced to drop again and growl the beast out, whereupon,
appeased by this strict observance of the unities, the child sat up and demanded:

"You sure you'll bring me somefin next time?"

"Yes, sure, Lady Grenville St. Clare."  "Well, you sure you're comin' next time?"

Being reassured on this point, and satisfied that no more bears were at large, she lay down
once more while Percival and the two observers returned to the drawing-room.

"You love children so!" Miss Milbrey said. And never had she been so girlishly appealing to
all that was strong in him as a man. The frolic with the child seemed to have blown away a
fog from between them. Yet never had the other scene been more vivid to him, and never had
the pain of her heartlessness been more poignant.

When he "played" with Baby Akemit thereafter, the pretence was not all with the child. For
while she might "play" at giving a vexatiously large dinner, for which she was obliged to do
the cooking because she had discharged all the servants, or when they "played" that the big
couch was a splendid ferry-boat in which they were sailing to Chicago where Uncle David lived--with
many stern threats to tell the janitor of the boat if the captain didn't behave himself and
sail faster--Percival "played" that his companion's name was Baby Bines, and that her mother,
who watched them with loving eyes, was a sweet and gracious young woman named Avice. And when
he told Baby Akemit that she was "the only original sweetheart" he meant it of some one else
than her.

When the play was over he always conducted himself back to sane reality by viewing this some
one else in the cold light of truth.

CHAPTER XXII.

The Distressing Adventure of Mrs. Bines

The fame of the Bines family for despising money was not fed wholly by Percival's unremitting
activities. Miss Psyche Bines, during the winter, achieved wide and enviable renown as a player
of bridge whist. Not for the excellence of her play; rather for the inveteracy and size of
her losses and the unconcerned cheerfulness with which she defrayed them. She paid the considerable
sums with an air of gratitude for having been permitted to lose them. Especially did she seem
grateful for the zealous tutelage and chaperonage of Mrs. Drelmer.

"Everybody in New York plays bridge, my dear, and of course you must learn," that capable lady
had said in the beginning.

"But I never was bright at cards," the girl confessed, "and I'm afraid I couldn't learn bridge
well enough to interest you good players."

"Nonsense!" was Mrs. Drelmer's assurance. "Bridge is easy to learn and easy to play. I'll teach
you, and I promise you the people you play with shall never complain."

Mrs. Drelmer, it soon appeared, knew what she was talking about.

Indeed, that well-informed woman was always likely to. Her husband was an intellectual delinquent
whom she spoke of largely as being "in Wall Street," and in that feat of jugglery known as
"keeping up appearances," his wife had long been the more dexterous performer.

She was apt not only to know what she talked about, but she was a woman of resource, unafraid
of action. She drilled Miss Bines in the rudiments of bridge. If the teacher became subsequently
much the largest winner of the pupil's losings, it was, perhaps, not more than her fit recompense.
For Miss Bines enjoyed not only the sport of the game, but her manner of playing it, combined
with the social prestige of her amiable sponsor, procured her a circle of acquaintances that
would otherwise have remained considerably narrower. An enthusiastic player of bridge, of passable
exterior, mediocre skill, and unlimited resources, need never want in New York for very excellent
society. Not only was the Western girl received by Mrs. Drelmer's immediate circle, but more
than one member of what the lady called "that snubby set" would now and then make a place for
her at the card-table. A few of Mrs. Drelmer's intimates were so wanting in good taste as to
intimate that she exploited Miss Bines even to the degree of an understanding expressed in
bald percentage, with certain of those to whom she secured the girl's society at cards. Whether
this ill-natured gossip was true or false, it is certain that the exigencies of life on next
to nothing a year, with a husband who could boast of next to nothing but Family, had developed
an unerring business sense in Mrs. Drelmer; and certain it also is that this winter was one
when the appearances with which she had to strive were unwontedly buoyant.

Miss Bines tirelessly memorised rules. She would disclose to her placid mother that the lead
of a trump to the third hand's go-over of hearts is of doubtful expediency; or that one must
"follow suit with the smallest, except when you have only two, neither of them better than
the Jack. Then play the higher first, so that when the lower falls your partner may know you
are out of the suit, and ruff it."

Mrs. Bines declared that it did seem to her very much like out-and-out gambling. But Percival,
looking over the stubs of his sister's check-book, warmly protested her innocence of this charge.

"Heaven knows sis has her shortcomings," he observed, patronisingly, in that young woman's
presence, "but she's no gambler; don't say it, ma, I beg of you! She only knows five rules
of the game, and I judge it's cost her about three thousand dollars each to learn those. And
the only one she never forgets is, 'When in doubt, lead your highest check.' But don't ever
accuse her of gambling. Poor girl, if she keeps on playing bridge she'll have writer's cramp;
that's all I'm afraid of. I see there's a new rapid-fire check-book on the market, and an improved
fountain pen that doesn't slobber. I'll have to get her one of each."

Yet Psyche Bines's experience, like her brother's, was not without a proper leaven of sentiment.
There was Fred Milbrey, handsome, clever, amusing, knowing every one, and giving her a pleasant
sense of intimacy with all that was worth while in New York. Him she felt very friendly to.

Then there was Mauburn, presently to be Lord Casselthorpe, with his lazy, high-pitched drawl;
good-natured, frank, carrying an atmosphere of high-class British worldliness, and delicately
awakening within her while she was with him a sense of her own latent superiority to the institutions
of her native land. She liked Mauburn, too.

More impressive than either of these, however, was the Baron Ronault de Palliac. Tall, swarthy,
saturnine, a polished man of all the world, of manners finished, elaborate, and ceremonious,
she found herself feeling foreign and distinguished in his presence, quite as if she were the
heroine of a romantic novel, and might at any instant be called upon to assist in royalist
intrigues. The baron, to her intuition, nursed secret sorrows. For these she secretly worshipped
him. It is true that when he dined with her and her mother, which he was frequently gracious
enough to do, he ate with a heartiness that belied this secret sorrow she had imagined. But
he was fascinating at all times, with a grace at table not less finished than that with which
he bowed at their meetings and partings. It was not unpleasant to think of basking daily in
the shine of that grand manner, even if she did feel friendlier with Milbrey, and more at ease
with Mauburn.

If the truth must be told, Miss Bines was less impressionable than either of the three would
have wished. Her heart seemed not easy to reach; her impulses were not inflammable. Young Milbrey
early confided to his family a suspicion that she was singularly hard-headed, and the definite
information that she had "a hob-nailed Western way" of treating her admirers.

Mauburn, too, was shrewd enough to see that, while she frankly liked him, he was for some reason
less a favourite than the Baron de Palliac.

"It'll be no easy matter marrying that girl," he told Mrs. Drelmer. "She's really a dear, and
awfully good fun, but she's not a bit silly, and I dare say she'll marry some chap because
she likes him, and not because he's anybody, you know."

"Make her like you," insisted his adviser.

"On my word, I wish she did. And I'm not so sure, you know, she doesn't fancy that Frenchman,
or even young Milbrey."

"I'll keep you before her," promised Mrs. Drelmer, "and I wish you'd not think you can't win
her. 'Tisn't like you."

Miss Bines accordingly heard that it was such a pity young Milbrey drank so, because his only
salvation lay in making a rich marriage, and a young man, nowadays, had to keep fairly sober
to accomplish that. Really, Mrs. Drelmer felt sorry for the poor weak fellow. "Good-hearted
chap, but he has no character, my dear, so I'm afraid there's no hope for him. He has the soul
of a merchant tailor, actually, but not the tailor's manhood. Otherwise he'd be above marrying
some unsuspecting girl for her money and breaking her heart after marriage. Now, Mauburn is
a type so different; honest, unaffected, healthy, really he's a man for any girl to be proud
of, even if he were not heir to a title--one of the best in all England, and an ornament of
the most exclusively correct set; of a line, my dear, that is truly great--not like that shoddy
French nobility, discredited in France, that sends so many of its comic-opera barons here looking
for large dowries to pay their gambling debts and put furniture in their rattle-trap old chateaux,
and keep them in absinthe and their other peculiar diversions. And Mauburn, you lucky minx,
simply adores you--he's quite mad about you, really!"

In spite of Mrs. Drelmer's two-edged sword, Miss Bines continued rather more favourable to
the line of De Palliac. The baron was so splendid, so gloomy, so deferential. He had the air
of laying at her feet, as a rug, the whole glorious history of France. And he appeared so well
in the victoria when they drove in the park.

It is true that the heart of Miss Bines was as yet quite untouched; and it was not more than
a cool, dim, aesthetic light in which she surveyed the three suitors impartially, to behold
the impressive figure of the baron towering above the others. Had the baron proposed for her
hand, it is not impossible that, facing the question directly, she would have parried or evaded.

But certain events befell unpropitiously at a time when the baron was most certain of his conquest;
at the very time, indeed, when he had determined to open his suit definitely by extending a
proposal to the young lady through the orthodox medium of her nearest male relative.

"I admit," wrote the baron to his expectant father, "that it is what one calls 'very chances'
in the English, but one must venture in this country, and your son is not without much hope.
And if not, there is still Mlle. Higbee."

The baron shuddered as he wrote it. He preferred not to recognise even the existence of this
alternative, for the reason that the father of Mlle. Higbee distressed him by an incompleteness
of suavity.

"He conducts himself like a pork," the baron would declare to himself, by way of perfecting
his English.

The secret cause of his subsequent determination not to propose for the hand of Miss Bines
lay in the hopelessly middle-class leanings of the lady who might have incurred the supreme
honour of becoming his mother-in-law. Had Mrs. Bines been above talking to low people, a catastrophe
might have been averted. But Mrs. Bines was not above it. She was quite unable to repress a
vulgar interest in the menials that served her.

She knew the butler's life history two days after she had ceased to be afraid of him. She knew
the distressing family affairs of the maids; how many were the ignoble progeny of the elevator-man,
and what his plebeian wife did for their croup; how much rent the hall-boy's low-born father
paid for his mean two-story dwelling in Jersey City; and how many hours a day or night the
debased scrub-women devoted to their unrefining toil.

Brazenly, too, she held converse with Philippe, the active and voluble Alsatian who served
her when she chose to dine in the public restaurant instead of at her own private table. Philippe
acquainted her with the joys and griefs of his difficult profession. There were fourteen thousand
waiters in New York, if, by waiters, you meant any one. Of course there were not so many like
Philippe, men of the world who had served their time as assistants and their three years as
sub-waiters; men who spoke English, French, and German, who knew something of cooking, how
to dress a salad, and how to carve. Only such, it appeared, could be members of the exclusive
Geneva Club that procured a place for you when you were idle, and paid you eight dollars a
week when you were sick.

Having the qualifications, one could earn twenty-five dollars a month in salary and three or
four times as much in gratuities. Philippe's income was never less than one hundred and twenty
dollars a month; for was he not one who had come from Europe as a master, after two seasons
at Paris where a man acquires his polish--his perfection of manner, his finish, his grace?
Philippe could never enough prize that post-graduate course at the Maison d'Or, where he had
personally known--madame might not believe it--the incomparable Casmir, a chef who served two
generations of epicures, princes, kings, statesmen, travelling Americans,--all the truly great.

With his own lips Casmir had told him, Philippe, of the occasion when Dumas, pere, had invited
him to dinner that they might discuss the esoterics of salad dressing and sauces; also of the
time when the Marquis de St. Georges embraced Casmir for inventing the precious soup that afterwards
became famous as Potage Germine. And now the skilled and puissant Casmir had retired. It was
a calamity. The Maison d'Or--Paris--would no longer be what they had been.

For that matter, since one must live, Philippe preferred it to be in America, for in no other
country could an adept acquire so much money. And Philippe knew the whole dining world. With
Celine and the baby, Paul, Philippe dwelt in an apartment that would really amaze madame by
its appointments of luxury, in East 38th Street, and only the four flights to climb. And Paul
was three, the largest for his age, quite the largest, that either Philippe or Celine had ever
beheld. Even the brother of Celine and his wife, who had a restaurant of their own--serving
the table d'hote at two and one-half francs the plate, with wine--even these swore they had
never seen an infant so big, for his years, as Paul.

And so Mrs. Bines grew actually to feel an interest in the creature and his wretched affairs,
and even fell into the deplorable habit of saying, "I must come to see you and your wife and
Paul some pleasant day, Philippe," and Philippe, being a man of the world, thought none the
less of her for believing that she did not mean it.

Yet it befell on an afternoon that Mrs. Bines found herself in a populous side-street, driving
home from a visit to the rheumatic scrub-woman who had now to be supported by the papers her
miserable offspring sold. Mrs. Bines had never seen so many children as flooded this street.
She wondered if an orphan asylum were in the neighbourhood. And though the day was pleasantly
warm, she decided that there were about her at least a thousand cases of incipient pneumonia,
for not one child in five had on a hat. They raged and dashed and rippled from curb to curb
so that they might have made her think of a swift mountain torrent at the bottom of a gloomy
canyon, but that the worthy woman was too literal-minded for such fancies. She only warned
the man to drive slowly.

And then by a street sign she saw that she was near the home of Philippe. It was three o'clock,
and he would be resting from his work. The man found the number. The waves parted and piled
themselves on either side in hushed wonder as she entered the hallway and searched for the
name on the little cards under the bells. She had never known the surname, and on two of the
cards "Ph." appeared. She rang one of the bells, the door mysteriously opened with a repeated
double click, and she began the toilsome climb. The waves of children fell together behind
her in turbulent play again.

At the top she breathed a moment and then knocked at a door before her. A voice within called:

"Entres!" and Mrs. Bines opened the door.

It was the tiny kitchen of Philippe. Philippe, himself, in shirt-sleeves, sat in a chair tilted
back close to the gas-range, the Courier des Etats Unis in his hands and Paul on his lap. Celine
ironed the bosom of a gentleman's white shirt on an ironing board supported by the backs of
two chairs.

Hemmed in the corner by this board and by the gas-range, seated at a table covered by the oilcloth
that simulates the marble of Italy's most famous quarry, sat, undoubtedly, the Baron Ronault
de Palliac. A steaming plate of spaghetti a la Italien was before him, to his left a large
bowl of salad, to his right a bottle of red wine.

For a space of three seconds the entire party behaved as if it were being photographed under
time-exposure. Philippe and the baby stared, motionless. Celine stared, resting no slight weight
on the hot flat-iron. The Baron Ronault de Palliac stared, his fork poised in mid-air and festooned
with gay little streamers of spaghetti.

Then came smoke, the smell of scorching linen, and a cry of horror from Celine.

"Ah, la seule chemise blanche de Monsieur le Baron!"

The spell was broken. Philippe was on his feet, bowing effusively.

"Ah! it is Madame Bines. Je suis tres honore--I am very honoured to welcome you, madame. It
is madame, ma femme, Celine,--and--Monsieur le Baron de Palliac--"

Philippe had turned with evident distress toward the latter. But Philippe was only a waiter,
and had not behind him the centuries of schooling that enable a gentleman to remain a gentleman
under adverse conditions.

The Baron Ronault de Palliac arose with unruffled aplomb and favoured the caller with his stateliest
bow. He was at the moment a graceful and silencing rebuke to those who aver that manner and
attire be interdependent. The baron's manner was ideal, undiminished in volume, faultless as
to decorative qualities. One fitted to savour its exquisite finish would scarce have noted
that above his waist the noble gentleman was clad in a single woollen undergarment of revolutionary
red.

Or, if such a one had observed this trifling circumstance, he would, assuredly, have treated
it as of no value to the moment; something to note, perhaps, and then gracefully to forget.

The baron's own behaviour would have served as a model. One swift glance had shown him there
was no way of instant retreat. That being impossible, none other was graceful; hence none other
was to be considered. He permitted himself not even a glance at the shirt upon whose fair,
defenceless bosom the iron of the overcome Celine had burned its cruel brown imprimature. Mrs.
Bines had greeted him as he would have wished, unconscious, apparently, that there could be
cause for embarrassment.

"Ah! madame," he said, handsomely, "you see me, I unfast with the fork. You see me here, I
have envy of the simple life. I am content of to do it--comme ca--as that, see you," waving
in the direction of his unfinished repast. "All that magnificence of your grand hotel, there
is not the why of it, the most big of the world, and suchly stupefying, with its 'infernil
rackit' as you say. And of more--what droll of idea, enough curious, by example! to dwell with
the good Philippe and his femme aimable. Their hotel is of the most littles, but I rest here
very volunteerly since longtime. Is it that one can to comprehend liking the vast hotel American?"

"Monsieur le Baron lodges with us; we have so much of the chambers," ventured Celine.

"Monsieur le Baron wishes to retire to his apartment," said Philippe, raising the ironing-board.
"Will madame be so good to enter our petit salon at the front, n'est-ce-pas?"

The baron stepped forth from his corner and bowed himself graciously out.

"Madame, my compliments--and to the adorable Mademoiselle Bines! Au revoir, madame--to the
soontime--avant peu--before little!"

On the farther side of his closed door the Baron Ronault de Palliac swore--once. But the oath
was one of the most awful that a Frenchman may utter in his native tongue: "Sacred Name of a Name!"

"But the baron wasn't done eating," protested Mrs. Bines.

"Ah, yes, madame!" replied Philippe. "Monsieur le Baron has consumed enough for now. Paul,
mon enfant, ne touche pas la robe de madame! He is large, is he not, madame, as I have told
you? A monster, yes?"

