 Had he really promised
the girl that he would tell Ulick nothing? Ridiculous as it may appear, he could not remember.

XVI

AS IN A LOOKING-GLASS

Arcadia House, while it certainly stood in need of the repairer's hand, was by no means uninhabitable,
a fact which spoke well for the honesty of its old-time builders. Its oak beams, fastened together
with tree-nails instead of iron spikes, were still sound, and its brick walls, unusually massive
in construction, were without a crack. Most important of all, the roof, shingled with the best
cypress, remained water-tight, and so protected the interior from the ruinous effects of moisture.
In outward appearance, however, Arcadia House had sadly degenerated. The stucco that originally
covered the outer walls had fallen away here and there, leaving unsightly patches to vex the
eye, and in many of the windows the glazing had been destroyed either wholly or in part.

Some years before Quinton Edge had taken possession of this abandoned Eden. The summers in
the city were usually warm, and the Doomsmen were in the habit of seeking the upper stories
of the tall buildings for relief, just as in the twentieth century people went to the mountains
for the heated term. Quinton Edge, having accidentally discovered Arcadia House recognized
its advantages as a summer residence, and he had his own reasons for desiring the privacy that
its secluded situation afforded. He was satisfied with putting three or four of the rooms into
livable condition, and as for the rest it was only necessary to repair the wall surrounding
the grounds and stock the storehouses with fuel and provisions to make of Arcadia House the
proverbial castle. That it was his castle was his own affair, and he had taken care that only
the fewest possible number should be in the secret. Old Kurt and a couple of negro slave women
made up the ordinary domestic staff of the establishment, and until the advent of Esmay and
Nanna, some three months before, Arcadia House had received no visitors. And he would be a
foolish man who called upon Quinton Edge without an invitation.

Esmay, after parting from Constans, paused a moment at the side entrance of the house. She
wanted to look back, but a stronger instinct forbade it; she opened the door and passed into
the hall.

It was a broad, low-ceilinged apartment, and served as a common living-room to the master of
Arcadia House and his guests. A few embers burned on the hearth, and a solitary candle set
in a wall-sconce strove with its feeble glimmer against the full tide of silver moonshine that
poured in through the uncurtained windows facing on the river. Quinton Edge himself was sitting
at the corner of the fireplace smoking a red-clay pipe with a reed stem. He rose as Esmay entered,
detaining her with a gesture as she would have passed him.

"One moment, if you will."

The girl stopped and waited for him to continue. He considered a moment, looking her over coolly.
And indeed she made an attractive picture as she stood there, the firelight glinting redly
in her tawny eyes and her cheeks incarnadined with excitement. Quinton Edge told himself that
he had made no mistake. Then he spoke:

"You have waited most patiently for me to announce my intentions. Let me see; it is nearly
three months since you came to Arcadia House?"

The girl made no reply. Alert and keeping herself well in hand, she would force him to the
first move. And Quinton Edge realized that he would have to make it.

"It won't be any news to you that there are several people who would be glad to be informed
of your whereabouts. There's Boris, for one, and young Ulick--we spoke of them some time ago."

"But to no purpose, sir; you remember that."

"Perfectly. Still, in three months a woman may change her mind many times."

"But only for her own satisfaction."

"Then it is hopeless to expect a decision from you?"

"Evidently."

"In that case it may become necessary for me to act for you."

"Oh!"

The exclamation told its own story, and the girl in her vexation bit the lip that had betrayed
her. Quinton Edge smiled.

"Don't distress yourself," he said, smoothly. "I am only giving you the warning that courtesy
entitles you to receive."

Esmay reflected. Whatever his intentions concerning her, she could not be the worse off for
knowing them. So she went on, steadily:

"Since you have already decided upon my future, argument would be useless. But perhaps I may
assume that you have acted with some small regard for my interests."

"Not the least in the world," returned Quinton Edge, and Esmay smiled involuntarily at frankness
so unblushing. Whereupon and curiously enough, Quinton Edge became suddenly of a great gravity,
the flippancy of his accustomed manner falling from him as a cloak drops unnoticed from a man's
shoulders. It is night .=

<sc> Wrapped first </sc> .-- Gross!

<sc> Muffled
second </sc> .-- The gross will be it.

- Do not you see the way?

-
Do not you have eyes?

... I almost knocked to the ground.

- I'll go my way.

- And I go
mine.

- Go enhoramala.

= (Continuing to the right.) =

- What a guy!

- If I catch you, kid ... = (Stop threats.) ='ll Teach you to talk
to people older.

= (Observation of the wrapped second.) = But I know that face.

One hundred thousand a horse!

... Are not you ...?

- Well you know me.

That face, if it is not the devil, is that of D. José Ido del Sagrario.

- Felipe of my backings! = (Dropping her veil and opening his arms.)
= Who you were to know as entapujado?

You Aristotle himself. Give me a hug ... other!

- What a find!

Believe me, D. Joseph, I'm glad to see you more than if I had met
a bag of money.

- But what you're getting, son?

What is your life?

- Long story. And what of you?

- Oh ... let me take breath.

In a hurry?

- Not much.

- Well, let's take a paragraph. The night is cool, and not a thing we do in this gathering abandoned
square. Come and coffee Lepanto, which is not far.

I invited.

- Convidaré me.

- Hello, hello ... There seems to be funding.

- So, so ... And what are you doing?

- Me?

Frankly, of course, when I say that I'm throwing the best hair that I has seen, can not believe
it.

- Well, Mr. de Ido. I had asked several times for you, and nobody
gave me reason said: "What has become of that blessed?".

= Enter the Lepanto coffee, sad, poor and dismantled establishment that has disappeared and
the Plaza de Santo Domingo, without shadow or trace of his past glories.

Instálanse on a table and ask for coffee and drinks .=

THE TABERNACLE
IDO .--=( With solemnity, putting on the table his two elbows as objects
have hampered elsewhere.) = So we are both eager to tell our troubles
and to unleash the story of our adventures and happiness, I do not
know if I take the front and let you start.

ARISTO .--=( Taking off the coat and put it very neatly folded on
a stool next to hers.) = As you wish.

- I see you have good coverage
... And tie pin like a gentleman ... And very decent clothes.

Chico ... you have inherited. Who litters? Did you pig out some guy?

- I have now is to put it bluntly, the best master of the world.

Under the sun there another, nor can it be again.

- Well, bravo!

A round of applause for that mirror of the masters.

But is such a mess like that D. Alejandro Miquis?

- Quite the contrary.

- Student?

--= (With pride.) = Capitalist!

- Chico ... let me open-mouthed. Is it too rich?

- What is ... = (Voice and gesture expressing the vastness.) = Is not easy to tell.

- Other than this! Did I not say that God had to agree with you one day? .. And tell me now frankly:
how do I find?

--= (Not hide his laugh.) = Well I find you ...

--= (With joy and dropping the lower lip of transparent slime threads.) = Say, man, dilo.

- Well I find you ... fat.

--= (With inexpressible joy.) = Yes, yes, others have told me too. Tia says that increase two
pounds per month ... Is that the successful move of my job, my career, my lifestyle, be expressed
in this poor flesh. I am no longer boys blazed, and I am not concerned in trocar beasts in men,
which is the same as making ungrateful. Do not you think I announced that working to change
that diminished by a more honorable and lucrative? ... Tomome of a scribe author of serial novels.
He dictated, I wrote ... My hand by lightning ... Male thrilled ... Each deal an ounce. My
author falls ill and he says: "Ido, finish that chapter." I take my pen, and ras!, I just grating
and another and another. Boy, I scared myself. My head says: "Ido partner" ... We took three
novels at once. He dictated the beginning, then I picked up the thread, and there you are chapters
and chapters. Everything is a matter of Philip II, you know, Masked men, bailiffs, Flemish knights,
and some ladies, boy, more brittle than glass and tinder more fuel ..., the Escorial, the Alcazar
of Madrid, Jews, Moors, Renegades, the so-Perez Antonito, that looks
just tangles, and the princess very hussy of Eboli, who with one eye
sees more than four, Cardinal Granvelle, the Inquisition, Prince D.
Carlos, great skirt, much monkish habit, much to throw bags of money
for any service, subways, nuns raised helmets, mess and backbiting,
natural kids every moment, and my D. Felipe all full of ointments
... In short, boy, go beyond statements and more specifications ...
Earnings items, half him, half me ... New layer, well-fed children,
Tia healed = (Stopping ...)= suffocated sick and delighted me, working
more than bishop and charging much pecuniary.

- Nice job!

--= (Taking
breath.) = Do not think, you need to head, because it's a hell of
liornia that we set.

The editor says: "Ido, volcanic imagination: three heads in one." And it's true. Lying down,
son, I feel in my brain sounds like a pot on the fire ... And the
street when I am distracted, I'm thinking of my scenes and my characters.

All churches Escoriales seem to me, and serene brackets, collars and coats. When I get angry,
loose from the mouth without knowing Marry I say, and instead of a Carape is that's beyond me
With a hundred thousand horsemen! Maybe, my name is Tia the Doña Sol or Doña Mencia. I sleep late,
wake up laughing and say, "Ya, ya know where to go that sank into the trap. " = (With exaltation
Felipe put in care.) = For you you know, my friend, that is a very long mine, made by the Moors,
which allows communication Platero's house, home of Antonio Perez, the convent of Carmelite
nuns roads of the Holy Passion of Pinto.

- Wow that is really long ... = (Hiding laughter.) = Do things! In what has been tangling got
you! But what matters is making money.

- Money! All I want. Now I get to eight dollars per deal. Wakes me in two days. Soon I will
work on my own, then we ship the new task before us charge now.

The editor is a man who knows the cloth, and says, 'I want a lot of work feeling that people
do mourn and is well loaded with morality. " I heard this and feel that my brain is burning
around you. My partner sees me ... I answer by reading the first chapter I wrote the night before
at home ... Male excited! Frankly, the thing is good. Imagine that searching through ruins I
find a chest. Abrol with care, and believe what I find? A manuscript. Leo and what is it, a
very tender story, a memoir, a diary. Because either you have spark or not have ... Two positions
on the loom, and has fourteen deals, and the thing will not end until the editor tells us: "Single,
cut!". = (Hastening the brandy.) = Frankly, the liquor gives life.

--= (Looking at the clock coffee.) = A little late, and though my love is great, I do not entertain
me when I fight for a message.

--= (Excitedly and without regard to what he is talking Felipe.) = Like I said, I have put in
such two girls play pretty poor, it is understood, very poor, and living always more trouble
the last day of the month ... But they are more honest than the Passover Lamb. There is the
morality, there it is, because these cocks orphan girls who applied for both sweet, brave resistance
and are so surly with all they talk about sin, serve as an example to the girls of the day.
My heroines are bare fingers as sewing, and the more they squeeze the hungry, most are relegated to
them in virtue. The little room in which they live is a silver cup. There fresh flowers and cloth,
because one minutisa water the pots and the other is dedicated to
artificial carnations.

In the morning, when they open the window overlooking the roof ... I would like read it to you ...
He says: "It was a beautiful morning in the month of May. It seemed that Nature ...». = (With
madness.) = In this knock on the door.

It is a footman with a letter full of bank notes. The two pretty girls get angry, I write the
statement scented marquis ... and me put it where there is no catch. Overall, they want more money
palm. Oh, I forgot to tell you that there is more bad Duchess bad Landre, which wants lost girls
by envy that has beautiful than they are ... There is also a banker
that does not fix anything.

He believes that everything is arranged with handfuls of cash. Patarata!

I inspired by reality. Where is the honesty? In the poor, the worker,
in the beggar.

Where is the mischief? In the rich, the noble, in the minister, in
general, in the courtly ... Those working, they spend.

Those charged, these suck.

We cry and they suck.

It is necessary that the world ... But what you do, Philip, you sleep?

--= (Savvy and brushing.) = Excuse me, Mr. D. José wanted.

It is not disrespectful; is that what little I drank that damn spirit seems that the head has
filled me stones.

--= (With growing unease fever, which breaks the dam finally made his loquacity.) = If this gives
life ... if this warmth running through my body, I have I muse for the night, and now I'm
going home and office sixty flip pages ... = (Jumping from his seat.)
= You are a true John Wool.

Drink more.

--= (Rubbing his eyes.) = Not in the least.

I fall into the street. Come, D. Joseph.

- Wait, man. Do not be so live genius. What's your hurry?

--= (Putting his hand in his breast pocket.) = I will carry this letter.

- Who?

- Two ladies who live alone.

--= (Pasmado.) = Felipe!

... Two beautiful girls, single, honest!

No doubt a letter full of money.

Your love is a banker, a crook who wants to shame them.

- Little
by little ... You have drunk too much.

- You see, you see?

= (Looking outside the city's eyes.) = Do you see how much make up the fantasy invented much
reality? ... Orphaned girls, tasty, temptation, letter million, virtue
triumphant.

= (Gesturing emphatically with the right arm.) = Notice I say.

What bets that give you the door in their noses? What bets that you to go rolling down the
stairs? Chapter: "How the emissary of the Marquis as it takes the ladder. "

- If my master is not Marquis ... My love is Agustin Caballero, whom
you know.

--= (With penetration.) = Whatever you want, wear the letter
contains an instrument of immorality corruption.

The letter contains notes.

- Yes, but according to drama tomorrow for Sunday afternoon.

Is that the cousins my master, Mr. de Bringas, can not go, because
they have a bad boy.

- Bringas Bringas!

... = (Recordando.) = Amigo Aristotle, let me see the envelope of
the letter ...

- See it.

--= (Reading the address, launches formidable
monosyllable of wonder and hold hands to head.) = "Amparo and Refugio
Girls."

If they are my neighbors, if the two orphan girls Sanchez Emperor ...

- Do you know?

- If you live in the same house, Beat, 4, I third them room!

If that couple I inspiration for what I write ... See, see?

The reality haunts us. I write Wonderland reality the plagiarizes me.

- They are beautiful and nice girls.

- I'll tell you ... = (Meditabundo.) = Nothing they say to the neighborhood, but ...

- But what ...

--= (With profound mystery.) = The reality, though ever imitating
what we know rather than it also invents things that we dare not to
dream that we have three heads in one.

- So you put those things
in his novels.

- No, because they are not poetry.

= (A frown.) = You do not understand art. Things happen great that they can not look out the windows
of a book, because people would be shocked ... Horrible prose Jr. nefarious prose that will
always be banned from this honorable republic the letters! Come on, that if I told you ...

- Tell me you these prose.

- If you knew a little secret to keep! ...

- Yes I know.

- Really?

- Pour it, man.

- Well ... = (After looking everywhere, on their lips to the ears of Philip, and speaks quietly
for a while.) =

--= (Hearing saddened.) = Ya ... What stuff!

- This is not to say.

- No, do not say.

- Not to be written. What vile prose!

--= (Reflexionando.) = Unless you, with his three heads in one, not become poetry.

--= (With vigorous denial.) = You do not understand art. = (Trying to pierce the forehead the
tip of the index finger.) = The poetry I get out of this mine.

- Come, D. Joseph.

- Come on, and since you and I took the course of my home ... talk ... way. After performance
... commission, you will enter my room. Tia will be delighted to see you. Grip Hand ... gatherings,
memories, explanations ... = (With increasingly incoherent speech and awkward.) = I ... talk
emperor ... you ... I love that famous ... illustrious ... opulentísimo ...

II

D. Rosalia and Francisco Caballero, second officer of the Royal Commissariat for the Holy Places
in 1867 was an excellent subject who confessed fifty years. Still has days that the Lord preserve
you. But this man is no longer lithe and strong, that sociable temperament, that fun to say,
that will obsequious, that courtesy helpful. Those who try then, just when you recognize on the
street today appears to us, giving his arm a servant, shuffling, made a curve, with half a face
in a scarf, almost view, trembling, drooling and so clumsy word and walking. Poor lord! Sixteen
years has boasted of having the best health of his time, played their destination on time unlikely
in our offices, bringing its domestic affairs with impeccable arrangements, met as the first
in the family and society. No one knew what debt was two religions,
God's and savings, and that every man be blessed in such perfection,
spent most of his spare time to various household chores undoubted
advantage, thus demonstrating the clarity of their intelligence and
dexterity of his hands.

From his green years, he worked, employees
were their parents and grandparents, and still think their grandparents
and the parents of these served in the administration of both worlds.
Not connected this man with the well-known business family in Madrid
who had the same name and also gave some very famous arcades. The
Bringas of the D. Francisco, Friend our beloved, came from La Mancha,
and the second name came from those Knights Cadiz, affluent family
in the last century, which was ruined after the war. There D. made
good Francisco his career with slow but sure step, depending on are
seldom reached then the inconsistency and turmoil of politics. Hanging
from the best skirts that were in his time, Bringas never saw the
pale face of unemployment, and was certainly the happiest employees
in Spanish offices. 

Was he insured on the payroll as the oyster
lies in very deep bench where they can not reach the fishermen lucky
pilgrim Madrid's bureaucracy, which always disturbed by politics,
greed, envy, idleness and vice, is a field of infinite pains.

Bringas
was not political, nor had he ever been, even had his own ideas, like
all Spanish, indeed very moderate. He felt no ambition, and have no
vices, not even smoke. Was worker so thrilled played effortlessly
work and his boss, was very lazy. At home he lost no time, and his
mechanical skills were such that it will not be easy to count them
all. Nature put it useful and varied talents to compose all sorts
of broken objects. Any rickety chair fell into his hands was like
new, and his fingers were miraculous talisman to stick a piece of
fine porcelain had been shattered. He dared even with the clocks that
do not want to walk, and the toys in the hands of the boys lost the
virtue of its mechanism. Restored books whose binding is impaired,
and varnishing furniture to whom time and use have spent luster. The
same kid rejuvenated a fan or a shell comb, which the most ignoble
part of the kitchen. Cork births was Christmas, and sticks teeth for
the whole year. In his house would never be called a carpenter. Bringas
knew better no one nailed, join, upholstery, break open, and he obeyed
the iron and wood veneer ebony and the sole piece of the tail and
glue, the screw and the tip of Paris, paper sand and grit. He had
all kinds of tools and supplies and ammunition thousand, and if offered
to handle a fat needle for joining pieces of carpet, nor was ago.
Sovereign sheathing old furniture fabrics and other furniture and
boning invalid. At the same time, Bringas was a man who did not disdain,
in days of trouble and guests of be in shirt sleeves and clean silverware.
Go to the coffee in the kitchen style gastronome, and if we hurried,
agreed to put a Valencian rice to overcome the best works of his worthy
wife and the cook of the house. But
luxury is not to be at the expense of food. The national cuisine, which undoubtedly was to be
flourishing and advanced in the fifteenth century, as attested D. Enrique de Villena and Ruperto
de Nola, came to fall into terrible decline in the seventeenth century by the pious, penitent,
devout, and on the day for the fans and itching to spend it all in rags Transpyrenean. Rightly exclaimed
an eloquent and famous Spanish speaker, but not sigh and shed tears I do not eat, I feed!
 But, as Constans
quickly saw, this same terrace would give useful foothold to the besiegers should once the
top of the wall be gained. Instead of being obliged to draw up their scaling-ladders, or risk
the sixteen-foot drop to the hard surface of the enclosure, they had only to jump onto the
banquette and from thence to the ground. He would have liked to investigate what engines of
defence could be brought into service by the garrison, but there was nothing to be seen beyond
two machines, sadly out of repair, which were intended for the casting of heavy stones through
the force of twisted ropes. So Constans turned his attention again to the scene before him.

A gang of carpenters were putting the finishing-touches to an elevated platform which stood
near the entrance to the White Tower. A crimson canopy warded off the sun's rays, and the structure
was probably intended for the accommodation of the more distinguished guests. A large chair
stood in the centre of the dais, and over it a gray wolf-skin had been draped; certainly this
must be the official seat of Dom Gillian himself. But as yet it stood empty.

How hot the sun was! And yet this was only the day of the vernal equinox; it was most extraordinary.
Everywhere the gutters ran streaming with water, the snow melting under the unexampled heat
of the solar rays like wax in a candle flame. The trees growing in the square were leafless,
and the tropic sun's rays blazed mercilessly through their naked branches. Constans found himself
panting for breath.

As the hours dragged on Constans felt a vague uneasiness pressing down upon him, and he could
see that the people also were growing restless under the unaccountable delay. The laughter
and talk little by little died away; men stood in silent groups staring through the open gate,
up the long avenue of the Palace Road, shading their bent brows under their hollowed hands.
Would they never come!

With noon a small diversion offered. Four negro slaves carrying a litter issued from the door
of the White Tower. There was no mistaking that great head with its mane of coarse, white hair--the
old Dom Gillian. With infinite difficulty the attendants succeeded in hoisting the unwieldy
bulk upon the platform, and so into the great chair. The people looked on in silence; not a
murmur of applause greeted the appearance of their lord. And with equal indifference did Dom
Gillian regard his people; plainly he was wearied, for his hands rested heavily upon the arms
of his chair, and he neither spoke nor moved. A slave stood on either hand wielding a fan;
presently the gaunt figure seemed to collapse into a heap, the eyes closed, and Dom Gillian slept.

Again the slow hours dragged along. The sun had already passed the zenith, the barbecue-fires
were dying out, on the western sky-line rested a cloud in bigness like to a man's hand and
of the blackness of night itself. Would they never come!

Far down the vista of the Palace Road a black dot stood out against the snowy background. A
moment later it had resolved itself into the figure of a horse and his rider. The man was riding
fast, heedless of the slippery, dangerous footing; now he was at the gate and the crowd pressed
back to give him room. 

For I invited myself, but much suspicion that the preparations for the party must be entangled
and difficult. The party will take, then, to complete, and as I'm tired old I can not make it despite
the treat. I am happy with the program. I find him interesting and enjoyable. But frankly, I would
find much better if Mr. D. Eduardo Marquina, in whom acknowledge and applaud very high wearing
poet, employ less incentive and more brake to lead his Pegasus, and only carry the legs when he
rides his own Muse, legitimate and pure, and not the adventurous coming of foreign lands and whose
itch to draw attention prompts her to wear clothes often with a bit extravagant and exotic mannerisms.
There will be no surplus that Mr. D. Eduardo Marquina care at greater length and thoroughness the
cleaning and dressing of Musa when bring up again.

DON CRISTOBAL DE MOURA

FIRST MARQUIS DE CASTEL-RODRIGO

I

The book
whose title serves as a heading, can not fail to draw wide attention
for several reasons.

It is a historical work carried out with meticulous skill and the
most indefatigable care for relatives and collating documents, to
clarify many obscure points and give and fairly accurate idea of ​​the
most important events in the history of the Iberian Peninsula from
the conquest of Granada until today.

Enhance the merit of the book a few years of its author, who has completed less than twenty-four of age,
and has endeavored to make a company full of great difficulties, I feel some of them insurmountable.

A
historical narrative, like a poem and just as a novel can be considered as a work of art, unity
of action as a whole and where all cases have and all characters
are displayed on the second or third term as hazy for that the main
hero or protagonist is not confused or lost and looks set to attract
and and persist in the minds of readers.

This should be written artistic life all celebrities. These are the ones that wrote Plutarch in
old age, and those among us has recently written Quintana.

This condition, however, was impossible to meet given the theme chosen by the young historian
D. Alfonso Danvila, and given the character or hero whose deeds are chronicled history and has
proposed.

D. Cristóbal de Moura, a Portuguese nobleman, who at the age of fourteen he entered as menino
the service of Princess Juana, conquers the estimate, confidence and affection of that egregious
lady, follows from Portugal to Castile, by his command plays very
difficult commissions and shows in all rare intelligence and singular
skill and tact.

A prudent King Don Felipe II then recognizes the capacity and server assert his sister and advantage
of such high conditions, using a Portuguese gentleman that matters
most arduous.

D. Business and happy Cristóbal de Moura, the plays at ease and satisfaction of the sovereign,
and is delicate, refined and intelligent tool for its arts policy and its cautious prudence.

In the biggest event in our history, in the performance, unfortunately much success durable, the
highest aspiration of the Spanish patriotic, D. Cristóbal de Moura involved and happy with
astonishing efficiency. Rather than the military prowess of the great Duke of Alba, and more
than the formidable army that led, perhaps to be very quick and subtle diplomacy gift Christopher
union of Portugal and Castile, and above all, that this union is
accomplished with little violence, blood and slaughter, to make himself
fit to counterbalance the power solvent Further bad governments, numb
and soothe the inveterate enmity between Castilian and Portuguese,
and get at least sixty years the marriage lasted two nations, despite
of our rapid and pitiful decline.

The action of D. Cristóbal de Moura is most unquestionable in all of this and their evidence
is manifest with perfect clarity thanks to the arrest report which Mr. Danvila, illustrated
by a copying of documents, not a few of them unknown and unpublished until now and removed from
the files.

D. Cristóbal de Moura does not happen, however, from being a mere instrument of wills over human,
the figure sinks and drowns, so to speak, in the raging torrent of
the great events, and their personality is obscured and overshadowed
by those princes and lords involved in the events, which govern or
determine, and whose character, talents, virtues and vices, our curiosity
and wake up call to them our thoughts a thousand times more attractive.

Princess Dona Juana and King Don Felipe cautious stand almost continuously and we cover up or
not let us see D. Cristobal. Even the characters so short a moral and intellectual worth, as the
Cardinal D. King As Henry D. Antonio, Prior Crato, excel on the pedestal where they are placed,
and the social position, and also clog D. Cristóbal de Moura.

I'm not saying the above is of no confidence in the book of Mr. Danvila. I am unable to conceive
how the book had been written in another way, how its author could have overshadow King Don Sebastian
and Alcazalquivir disaster, the fall a nation so heroic, about the time of its wonderful expansion
and its peak. It was possible that the authorities repress his desire to paint while carefully specified
vaguely in the background to so many important characters that appear to first, without departing
from our sight and as a center and main object of all D. Cristóbal de Moura, who, however, it
is necessary to confess that he had more than anyone the success of the union of Portugal and Castile
and this union was less violent and much more durable than it might
have feared and what undoubtedly feared Philip.

Mr. Danvila writes about one of the times when it is more difficult for the historian previous
impartiality, or write to count and not to try. The first praise we must give Mr. Danvila,
is because it gets to overcome prejudice and portray characters and narrate their actions such
as left, leaving readers to judge, rate and fail.

Often, however, for many very precious data that accumulate and order a historian, readers, although
very knowledgeable, they can not be trial and sentencing. Otherwise the novelist is the method
that the story continues.

The novelist imagines his craving the characters of his novel, silly or discrete, evil or good-natured,
weak or spirited, and then inescapable dialectic moves them to say and do everything in line
with the budget. Instead, the historian and creates his characters, nor does a magic key to penetrate
its heart, to look into the chambers of his brain, and to discover and show their intentions, feelings
and purposes.

All this has to be inferred of what each character says and does: induction, in my opinion,
very subject to fraud, where has been doubted and always has played no little about the moral and
intellectual worth of very famous historical figures.

On D. Cristóbal de Moura no, there can be no doubt or dispute. Skilful and faithful servant it
complies with the mandates of his master and perfect their art of courteous and discreet negotiator,
and flexibility and patience are revealed in all his actions and particularly shine in the
art involved and suffers little gentle humor of King Felipe and preserves and enhances the confidence
that inspired them. But, as already mentioned, in the broad picture painted by Mr. Danvila, D.
Christopher is, and can not fail to be relegated to second and sometimes a third or fourth term.
The box contains almost the entire history of Spain and Portugal
from 1538 to 1613.

Given the outstanding figures and D. conspicuous John III, Queen Catalina, Princess Juana,
the Emperor Charles V, Duke of Alba, King D. Sebastian, Isabel de Valois, Prince D. Carlos, and finally,
King Philip himself, the discrete Portuguese gentleman can not but be obscured. In many chapters
the book just named it: sometimes it is presumed but not warranted to leave the scene. Who is always
present and active there is the king D. Felipe.

The book by Mr. Danvila corroborates once again the concept I have of this king, against which,
during his lifetime and after his death, have launched the harshest accusations and the most
passionate injuries without my guesses to give it less benign, more soulless hypocrite or between
a multitude of other monarchs, princes and magnates of the Renaissance. Felipe II was the
very goodness, sweetness and gentleness personified, sincerely religious and loving your country
and a model of paternal kings, if you compare it to John II of Portugal surnamed the perfect
prince, with Louis XI of France, Catherine de Medici and her children
Charles IX and Henry III, Henry VIII and Elizabeth I of England and
a few others that could not include, without excluding anything to
his father Caesar.

I presume that the rare and exceptional depravity that is attributed to Philip II takes origin
Based on the pledges of his character and acts of your life that you will exalt and illustrate: in
war without truce that was to Protestantism, struggling to not break the high informing principle,
directed and gave unity to European civilization. If achieving this finally used the Inquisition
burned heretics and made quite a few other atrocities and outrages was very wrong, but where
were then the rulers and governments more lenient and humans? Either in quality or quantity can compare
the victims sacrificed by Felipe II for which no Inquisition slaughtered
in Germany, France or England.

It was not necessary, for example, of the Inquisition in Spain for the execution of Vanini,
Bruno, of Miguel Servet, Thomas More and Mary Stuart. If we did the exact statistics of all burned
heretics in Spain, perhaps would be less in number that only witches' and witches were burned
in Germany. Thank God that we no longer live burns no such grounds and that anyone can be a heretic
and to impunity and a wizard; but did not accuse the sixteenth century Spanish monarch or his
Don Felipe II, more fans and cruel to other people of his time.

As true and clear even as I put above. Where to start my doubts, despite or because of the circumstantial
and detailed account of Mr. Danvila, is the idea that I form of political talent that King
D. Felipe was in dealings, negotiations, intrigues, tortuous detours, slowness and caution came
after Portugal to seize and to submit the full extent of our peninsula under his rule. So many
comings and goings, many ambassadors or outfalls different, simultaneous, and successive, monks,
saints, grandees of Spain and lawyers, already moved agreement, provide feedback, be demure
each other on the order of the king, and they understood this directory, and some with a secretary
and others with another, because King was suspicious of all this,
I wonder: was indispensable, to take over Portugal with little violence
and no offense too much to the Portuguese?

Was it strange then to the circumspection of the desired king Iberian union or was because
the timing was propitious: it was of God, as vulgar, wise and Christian you say?

Would not the reader experience some fatigue, although it is well written the book and the curious
and well-ordered news gives people and things, to penetrate entangled in the labyrinth of detours by
the king D. Philip pursues its aims? Seduce Portuguese with many promises and buy others with
money to stop the war and the shedding blood, and yet can not cancel the Prior of Crato and
seize it, or avoid to rebel, and needs to quell the rebellion with hard hands and tremendous
punishment, without ever to avoid the appalling excesses of an invading army almost always underpaid
and hungry in Spain and in that century, though he commanded so much authority and leaders
of energy as The Duke of Alba and Sancho de Avila.

I affirm nothing.

I limit myself to doubt. And from what I doubt is whether these events should be concluded
Philip II and circumspect, cautious and cunning, or if there is more reason to be regarded
as tentative, undecided and convoluted in the media and even heavy and cumbersome, if I may so
familiar and under the word.

II

Everyone sees things your way. History shows very little. Never enough similarity accidents
in two major events to valid and legitimate comparisons.

Let us dare, however, to compare, in spite of the insecure. Portugal humiliated, defeated in Africa
by Morocco, where she died the flower of his heroic nobility and their brave soldiers, little could
resist the ambition of a monarch to assert his hereditary right, was lord of Vastis kingdoms and provinces
and was in charge of the Spanish nation, leading then in Europe.

If we pay, then, the king Don Felipe, the assurance of our admiration
it was annexed to Portugal, so to speak, availing ourselves of the
verb is in fashion today, what astonishment, wonder why, do not inspire,
King Victor Emmanuel with Cavour and his Garibaldi when, after taking
the duchy of Milan by the hand of French and German by the hand of
the Veneto Prince shortly before Austria defeated and fined, dares
to break down and demolished several thrones, without excluding the
pope's temporal, takes over Naples and Sicily and founded the unit
Italy, secular aspiration never fulfilled since the time of the barbarian
king Theodoric?

Although I reject the comparison, denying the parity of the circumstances and the grounds diverse
nature of the times, still leans a little encouragement to have the somewhat problematic the
ability of King Philip. His circumspection sinned in detail. Maybe difficult its abundance of
media companies that used to give top. Some of these media were useless, counterproductive or damaging
others. An example is the mission, embassy or whatever you call, Fray Hernando del Castillo
to the unfortunate King Cardinal D. Enrique. What could only lead to self-mortifying, to offend
the poor monarch and sour Portuguese cad good friar's sermon to persuade him that he should not
get marriage? Is good and holy Christian liberty, but not to be confused with the insolent rudeness.
E insolent and rude walked the friar, preaching to the king for two hours sinfulness and outrageous
that it would be her marriage, useless because it was unable to consume, and how dangerous because
it could well give the Queen as legitimate heirs to the throne had to refuse.

As D. Cristóbal de Moura opposed, but in vain, the sermon of Fray Hernando impolitic del Castillo,
one might well say that on that occasion, as well as in some others, beat in counsel to his
August master.

Is unique, in my view, the patent superiority of the village, at the time of greatest worth in
Spain the princes who led their destinations, except the Catholic Monarchs. They knew well
iron-fisted rule of anarchy, combining the forces of the nation and directs and guides all of their
greater aggrandizement. Used in this work by serving, eminent men in the arts of peace and war
captains, bold adventurers, sailors and missionaries, shrewd statesmen, jurists, scholars and theologians,
and, finally, to elegant brilliance that parallels the political aggrandizement, glorious and fruitful
inspired poets and artists.

The ferment of decay and corruption, rather than the village, appeared in the dynasty. In Dynasty
almost from the beginning, he warns.

Madness, poet and love call Queen Juana, it would seem as nervous condition, more or less latent,
is transmitted inherited by almost all individuals in the family, until finally manifested with
the character of notable imbecility in King Carlos II. No matter how sympathetic, heroic or virtuous
who are some characters always shines through in them something, and sometimes much, of unhealthy
and unbalanced. Prince Don Carlos and King Don Sebastian look at this as good cousins. The
same princess, mother of Don Sebastian, has little strange not and mysterious. Beautiful and
passionate woman had to be no doubt when he inspired such ardent love the prince her husband, she
chose to separate from death.

Against the advice of the doctors, the prince died in the arms of Doña Juana. And yet, this
lady was so austere and aloof, which would not allow you to see or face. Covering him was
when he gave hearing as governor of the kingdom, being absent from his brother Don Felipe II.
Sometimes as someone doubted that he spoke with her, she quickly discovered, was wondering
if Princess Joan, and not well answered yes, again covered.

Perhaps it was less rare among the princes of that family, the most judicious and reasonable,
the most loved his country and the greatness which sought more tenaciously, therefore and study
was the king Don Felipe. If not by the rapid flight of intelligence and the Will Power early, Felipe
II is worthy of applause by the constant application looking for the good of his people. Far
from being hypocritical I believe, I believe him perfectly convinced good faith that it was
God's representative on earth and that the new people of God was that of Spain. Considering
Don Felipe charge of carrying out the civilizing mission this town, was the champion of the
Catholic Church and under its auspices, deploying to greater generosity than with Spain with
the subject countries, and the same monarch, and his subjects imitating,
the sciences and the arts, monuments erected, established temples,
palaces and pious institutions and encouraged, rather than suppress,
all progress, all improvement material and any theory or scientific
or philosophical system that was opposed to revealed dogma, opposition
then fed less frequently than in the day.

For in the day with the same determination many rely on science as a weapon to combat faith, returns
to suspicious those who are defenders of the faith and say than a hundredfold the fourteen items.

It is true that with application and study would be easy to show that in the sixteenth century
just was no scientific or philosophical courage, condemned in other nations, despite the Inquisition
should find no welcome among us: systems of Copernicus and Galileo, transforming species, spontaneous
generation, rational beings than the offspring of Adam and of angels and in short, as a writer
or thinker dream occurred to him, test or take for demonstrated and non-Judaizing transcend,
Moorish, Lutheran or Calvinist. The subsequent decline Spain is born intellectual, then, compression
of thought by the inquisitors. Other causes had. His research is arduous and tedious.

We incur the same fault, that if we do not censor, we repair in the book of Mr. Danvila, we are
talking about all these articles and D. Cristóbal de Moura we let you forgotten. Let us and
Let's remind him.

After his diplomatic campaign in Portugal, D. Christopher, full of honors and grants, reach the
top of credit and valimiento near his sovereign. To stand in such enviable position, earned him
not only his discretion and rare ability in business, but also their zeal, their strong loyalty
and his deep and sincere devotion to the prince whom he served. Never gave greater account of himself
and flashed both these items as in the past, slow and painful illness of the said King, who attended
D. Christopher, sleepless, solicitous, until the moment of his death. Need was, without doubt,
D. Christopher had health bronze strong will and extraordinary vigor of mind and body to resist
fatigue, mastery disgust and not cringe at the horror of the ghastly
scene that he witnessed and took part for fifty-three days.

In the modest room, next to the sanctuary, and where may be the altar and the magnificent temple
of the Escorial, his dour founder, attended and care for D. Christopher spent the fifty-three
days referred to in such a cruel martyrdom, that hardly seemed possible
that they could resist human strength.

 But
not even a night's housing in the cattle-byre or a plate of broken victuals is to be had from
Messer Hugolin unless one is prepared to pay, and roundly, too. Remember that I, too, am of
his blood, and have dwelt in his house."

The girl's eyes grew cloudy and troubled. "There is the town itself," she faltered. "Surely
among so many people there must be some chance for a livelihood--there is work---"

"Not of the honest kind and for such as you," he retorted. "Must I make you understand? Look
at yourself, then, in the glass behind you." Suddenly he took her hand between both his own.
"Who would dare hint at work to those fingers so slimly white? But one may live delicately,
even in Croye."

The girl recoiled as though from a blow, and Constans felt the shame of having actually struck
one. "But not you," he stammered, and raged inwardly at himself. She forgave him in a look.
"But, Esmay," he said, humbly. She smiled to him to go on.

"You are thinking of the world beyond, but indeed you do not know it--its cruelty to the weak,
above all to a woman. Here, at least----"

"Here the least of all," she interrupted, but would not look at him to make her meaning clearer.

"Yet you see how I could not let you go alone or even with Nanna," he urged.

"Yes, I understand that. What is it that you wish me to do?"

Constans started. Was he, then, prepared to make himself responsible for this young creature's
future? Of course she could not remain longer in a position so dangerous and equivocal. But
why should she not be reasonable? It was true that Nanna was quite capable of managing the
boat; he had only to assist them to get away and give the word to Ulick that he might follow.
Ulick would go to the end of the world to serve her.

A thoroughly sensible solution of the problem, and then in a twinkle Constans forgot that he
had ever wanted Esmay to be reasonable, forgot the faith owed to a friend and the vengeance
sworn against an enemy, forgot times and seasons and the peril in which they stood, forgot
all things save that he was a man and she was a woman, and that he had suddenly come to desire
her above all else in life.

"A woman, and some day he would come to know what that meant." Now he knew.

Esmay stood waiting for the answer to her question.

"You cannot go alone," he said, in a half-whisper, "and your sister's protection is useless.
You will have to trust yourself to me."

Esmay had turned away her head, but a treacherous mirror intercepted the confession in her
eyes and flung it back to him who had compelled its utterance. Now a man may never yet have
seen that look on a woman's face, but he need not fear lest he fail to recognize it when at
last his time comes. Constans saw, and suddenly the primeval passion of the world seized and
shook him. "I want you," he said, and would have taken her--then stopped, confounded and appalled.

Through the open window came the sharp, staccato yelp of a hound at field. Yes; the dogs were
out, and already they were at work, ranging in great semicircles, alert with the joy of the
chase. There was Blazer, with his tawny muzzle, and behind him Fangs, the great, black bitch,
half mastiff and half bloodhound, the saliva dripping from her jaws as she ran. So Minerva scares the Furies and Orestes returns to peace of soul, and so Prometheus
is freed and saved by God's own son who was punished so horribly.

ON THE NOVEL TODAY

Time ago I wrote an article giving the Spanish public account of the novels calls Schools, who
has written the Uruguayan writer D. Carlos Reyles. As I do not ever relished taking an insignificant
or silly book for the object of my derision, to say the obvious jokes and low-grade and to the
role of Domino uses the discipline or the rod, either who knows me will understand that if I
spoke of the novels mentioned, was to have found real merit in them and judge them worthy subject
of criticism. This is also understood author D. Carlos Reyles, and if you responded to my article
in The Liberal, has been so so polite and so flattering, that moves
me to reply, if only for gratitude and courtesy.

I go to reply to Mr. Reyles, although I had enough difficult, because the Lord not directly
defend their works, which have been praised rather than censured me. What he defends is a certain
aesthetic that I somehow and to some extent condemn. Hence, to make the necessary distinctions
and mark well the limits to where lies my condemnation and the reasons on which it is based,
I need more space which can offer the Liberal and perhaps more patience than I presume must
have its readers. I will, however, an effort to be brief and to put it all in and figure short,
even with decline in explicit and clear what I long to be always
in my written.

In literature there is no Paris fashion, as in ladies' dresses and ornaments, and there is
no progress in literature and chemistry, surgery or mechanical, applied to industry. Therefore,
who understands that there are such fashion and such progress, writes a lot worse than I understood
Otherwise, cut the wings of his genius rather than lengthen them
and give them strength, it loses some of originality, if not lost
all and is exposed to falling into the false, as effete and the bizarre.

This

is what I have said and what it seeks to challenge Mr. Reyles, but in my opinion not contested.

What
I deny is that there should be fashions and fads have come from Paris,
but how I deny that I feel, think and imagine in each historical period
are different and reflected in works of imagination this difference?

Without wanting to imitate anyone, spontaneously even against our will, even when we strive to
be or to appear as another century or from another era, we are by virtue of the ineluctable laws
of our time and our century.

Suppose for a moment that no such French and Russian novels that Mr. Reyles puts by clouds or that
neither he nor I have read, or have not read but the Spanish novels
of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries and that we strive to imitate
and even to reflexively imitate.

The result will be, if Mr. Reyles and me there own personality and background, which we write
very different novels, all the old styles, very much our century our than aping the French or Russian.

The
imitation of the old is, moreover, a thousand times more secure. Silly, so foolish, and the vulgar,
everything has fallen into oblivion or into disrepute. Several generations of critics and contempt
of the people have swept the insignificant and wrong, as he swept away. Good, so-called classical,
it is only in our memory, is presented as an example and model leads
us to imitation and competition excites us.

In the modern, in contrast, works literature are as the harvest in the era, no one has yet separate
the grain from the straw, or what food is to be nice and healthy seed or unpalatable weeds
that instead of delighting and nurture, drunk and cause dizziness. Hence, he who imitates what modern
danger of being deceived, blinded by the vulgar applause and the prestige of fashion, and instead
of imitating delicacies and beautiful, quirky news or bland imitation nonsense. It is clear that,
despite all, if the imitator is worth something, top of these developments and that nonsense
will come out and excel their own talent. Would not it be better not enthusiasm by the modern,
not the workmanship stunned both French and Russian in order to avoid being put on stilts,
which tiptoe and stretch your wits violently to come out top of this nonsense and these developments,
showing as it is?
 You
scored nicely on poor Blazer, but I venture to think that Fangs would have avenged her mate
had I let her have her way." He stopped and patted the brute's huge head. "My compliments,
old woman; doubtless this visitor of ours will always remember you respectfully as one who
feared neither God, man; nor devil, but only Quinton Edge. Now be off with you." The hound
licked her master's hand and limped away. Quinton Edge straightened up and passed his lace-edged
handkerchief across his lips. Then, with smooth irony: "An honor, indeed, to entertain so unexpected
a guest at Arcadia House; to what happy chance am I indebted?"

"That I am here should be condemnation sufficient for your purpose," said Constans, slowly.
"I have nothing to add to it."

He hardly troubled to look up as he spoke; exhausted and dispirited as he was, what did it
matter what he answered.

"Then you do not even plead a first offence?"

Constans remained silent. Like a disobedient school-urchin, he told himself, glowering sulkily
in the presence of his tutor. Between this man and himself lay an enmity that was deeper than
the grave, and yet to Quinton Edge he was merely the petulant boy to be scolded and punished
or, even more contemptuously, ignored. Was he never to stand before him as man to man?

"It is just as well," continued the Doomsman, "since there have been other eyes who have kept
watch for me. I am not entirely uninformed concerning a romantic adventure of two days ago
at the pavilion in the garden. But perhaps on this count the maid may choose to answer for
herself, speech being a woman's prerogative, and ofttimes her opportunity." The second queen is Christ, and with it the compassion and
also love, but love mixed with mortification, penance, fasting, tears, vigils and even flogging,
all of which Mr. Gener like little or nothing. But fortunately, and that Mr. Gener is pleased,
the third rule is soon to start at least we realize it. Will the reign of the Holy Spirit, that
is pure love, not disciplines and without abstinence, without hair shirts and no scraps, but all
delight, feast and Gaudeamus relentless.

The style of Mr. Gener, full of lyricism, although written in prose on the reader not little
doubt. How Mr. Gener want that much of what he says is true or limited to a symbol, allegory,
image or figure of speech in vain? Anyway, even if symbol and not really something that Mr. Gener
us in his magnificent painting paintings, still can and should we peer into the hidden symbol
in it actually contains. Now, if it is true, as Mr. Gener said, with talk at the same Eternal
Father, this is not true provident and providence is that of man, Nietzsche reason, and do
not have Mr. Gener to advise the man to have fun and not be anxious because the super-man
appears. How to appear, if we who are the ruling did not bring?

Mr. Gener God says in his long speech, that good and evil you are indifferent; he is limited
to producing life, and that if you create flowers, beauty and health, tasty fruits, innocent pigeons
and doves, butterflies and dragonflies and cute and painted birds that sweetly warble and chirp also
creates tigers and hyenas, spiders deformed, poisonous scorpions, earthquakes, hurricanes and pestilence
and prolific variety of microbes, because of the more disgusting and deadly diseases. Such is the God
who speaks with Mr. Gener and declares that it is not for us neither savior nor provident. Our salvation
and our real effective is providence ourselves. To us to, as Mr. Gener says by the mouth of
the Eternal Father he imagines, turn the venom balm, pain pleasure, roses and thorns microbial
pathogens in pleasantness. But if we do all this responsibility is not While we sit passively
and forget our responsibility. Nietzsche, for this hand, is right, and Mr. Gener do not have,
and, finally, if one looks, has no Mr. Gener reason to deny the providence of God, because
God, by virtue of a wise plan, uses of man to overcome obstacles, to destroy evil and make him
well, and we refined and improved where possible.

If there is no plan, do not know where Mr. Gener may assert that there
is progress, improvement, advent of super-men and other future blessings.

And if that is the plan and all that and more can be said, the plan is not human but divine.
What higher providence God can conceive Mr. Gener? How to imagine that the plan is human?
How man is born and dies and who lives such a short time on earth is to have drawn this plan?
Concede that he discerned, he discovers, but it sets.

I decide not to be true or a lie, but our understanding is not absurd
a broadly conceived plan and imagined, and not to represent us in
a number of centuries the development and history of the entire universe,
so that We represent you at least what happened on our planet since
the moment he started revolve around the sun until today.

In my view, is extremely poetic idea and ingenious of atoms, driven by the itch of life that
moves them, come to produce life, and that, once created life, what beautiful is completing and
perfecting each again. But who has the intelligence of atoms, not aware that understand, this
itch tireless and unfailing that creates life and then the improvement? All this is explained
assuming the God who Nietzsche and Gener refuse, as sovereign and supreme intelligence as they
prepare, and have rule over all. Without it, can never conceive the human mind for many centuries
used in the transformation, how can birth most of the least of which is not moving it moves, what
you do not live long lives, the unconscious conscious, and what intelligence do not understand.
This is inexplicable, is contrary to reason that the most ridiculous of all mythologies, the
most rudimentary and primitive of all religions. And, conversely, does not affirm the existence
of well God, everything becomes clear and everything in the transformer seems more beautiful
and more consistent with omnipotence and wisdom of God than any other system cosmogony. It's
more anthropomorphic and, therefore, less divine, understand that God manages the universe as
a watchmaker fixes the machinery of a clock, and gives, for example, the birds wings to fly, eyes to they
see to see, and they understand understanding to understand, to understand God places on the substance,
in the matter, atoms, or as we like to call a unfailing desire and movement in a safe direction,
firm and without possible loss by whose virtue, creates the desire to live life, flying, wings,
and seeing, the eyes.

I repeat that I do not affirm or deny the evolution and the transformer. I do not plead or otherwise
supporter of Darwin. I merely assert that Darwin did not invade the domains of metaphysics
or religion, and differentiating his unfaithful disciple of Haeckel, and even more from Mr.
Gener and Nietzsche. Bishop and Van Wedding, in its reasonable element of religion is expressed
in this way. "Faith and science may agree to accept a transformer
in which While respecting the notion of the creative cause of the
soul and spirit and freedom.

"From here it follows that even the most orthodox Catholic can be Darwinian, based on texts
and Case of San Augustine, Aquinas and other Doctors and Fathers of the Church as shown, or
attempts to demonstrate this, the eminent Italian poet and philosopher Antonio Fogazzaro In a
recent and very interesting book called human ascents.

Does not follow, however, acceptance of the doctrine of the processor, security appear to be
superman when least expected. The most that will be inferred somewhat remote possibility of
that occurrence. For now, the super-man is not come. By contrast, moral and political advancements,
the multitude of inventions that make now more comfortable and more enjoyable life and the immense
wealth of studies, and experimental and observation, and theoretical
and speculative, which are kept in books and printing reports, are
now easier than any one man stands out, but gave a lot of be super-man,
but has less moral worth and intellectual men of yesteryear.

Few sublime can come up today a poet who has studied a lot, are not as staggering, They do
not involve super-manhood as rare as that was, say, back in the primitive ages, the inspired
author of the book of Job or Richie or poet who composed the hymn of the Rig-Veda, the Unknown
God. Trajan and Marcus Aurelius, despite being Gentiles are no monarch worth more than extending
them throughout history. In pure and fervent love of God, few men and creatures appear in
the visible universe, it is difficult to be born and who overcomes
and surpasses San Francisco de Assisi.

And if Kant, Schelling and Hegel seem deep philosophers, comprising and explaining everything, still
seems superior intelligence of Aristotle through what had far fewer media. And what is said here
of individuals, more so is true of organized groups or communities. What city modern, without excluding
Florence and Paris, created a philosophical culture, literary and artistic so original and so
few precedents and exotic elements, such as Athens in time of Pericles? "Not what nation, finally,
by dominating and stronger than either the day you can dream with glory and power that are
equivalent to those of Rome, not being more than a city ruleth the best in the world, gave laws and
language, and founded an empire that lasted more than a few centuries? Y when neither in Athens nor
in Rome showed the core of super-men, we may expect not appear in the day or in England or France
or Germany or Russia, or in the United States. All be content and be content with being essentially
the same, although momentary circumstances (for momentary must be given the secular amplitude history),
these nations prevail today, they overlap and to dominate the others.

Anyway, there we will see how this explains Mr. Gener and what most clearly prophesies In his Gospel
of Life, which will appear entirely in French, and soon, and we know only the Preface and three
or dithyrambs eloquent odes to loneliness, his brother Silence, and Night, fertile mother of
two. Lovingly joined with Mr. Gener Soledad aforementioned, it will or has already had a son
who comes to be without doubt the verb of his Gospel. Silence is being raised, and is not well brought
up, Mr. Gener is the crowd to cast desatontarla, stirring all.

It's so funny and so poetic as Mr. Gener announces and advertises it so eloquently overwhelming,
I feel haunted and almost seduced, inclined to believe in the advent super-man and even to
wish, but I kept between the sub-men and the superfluous; but the last article of the book by Mr.
Gener is my hope fade away, to wither my desire and overthrow the faith in the super-man who
was beginning to be born in my soul.

The last article of the book by Mr. Gener, titled The hyper-positivism,
should be titrated The hyper-negativity, because it denies everything,
casting roll as is known, any basis knowing, all criterion of truth,
any contention that there is something.

Not happy Mr Gener to be all spirit, and wants to Berkeley, or that it is all matter, as desired
Büchner and Moloschot, nor the only substance of Spinoza, nor with the time, space and the vast amount
of things that coexist in space and that occur over time, are only forms of our feeling and
our understanding, not subjective phantasmagoria known to what extent they agree or disagree
with reality that produces them. Mr. Gener goes further and doubted
whether there was such external reality: nearly denied.

Says there representation, but ensures that there is not represented. Your question or its negation
is more radical. Destroys not only represented, but also the theater where representation and
the viewer appears the beholder. Mr. Gener goes beyond Schopenhauer, who sees only the representation
universe and will. Mr. Gener is that the will is more than enough, which is nothing more than appearance.
Everything is thus reduced to representation, the most complete nihilism: a representation without
theater without actors, without spectators, without anything substantial and real to be represented.

If after cramming and studying mathematics, physics, chemistry, botany, zoology, anthropology
and a multitude of subjects that Mr. Gener been studied in a prominent, we come to stop at the
end that Mr. Gener for almost is best not to open a book or learn anything. Everything is unknowable.
We no longer dare to figure out what is known as a small island in an ocean unfathomable and infinite
can only cross imagination or faith. The island itself and to us the inhabitants of the island,
fall under the predicament of the unknowable: we are pure phenomena, the substance and the cause
are "fiction, nonsense words. There is only movement.

Electricity, light, life, strength, feeling and thinking, everything is moving, no engine, no object
moved and no place or time real objectives and, where and in which the object moved to move.

What remains to be done in such a distressing situation? How will comfort us after lost all reality?
Then we will comfort you with poetry, with music and with other fine arts. In a passive way,
we will just be attending public and revel representation. And in an active way, we will be comedians,
poets and composers of music and dramatize our operations and our dramas. This is the final point reached
by Mr. Gener after your studies.

Evil, or at least what I can not understand yet is how the representation
has to like it or how I write something that is rendered when Mr.
Gener begins to take off the noun.

We have no word that is not impersonal, agentless and with no patient. Vibrates see, smell,
walk, eat, etc.., but do not know who eats, who sees, or who vibrates, and what is it vibrated,
neither eaten nor seen. Everything is unknowable, and we may suspect that exists. Not only the
super-man, but many men also exist or have existed and Mr. Gener who speaks to us, Aryan and Turanian,
Poles, Mongols, Romans and Greeks, no go from being a mere representation. Is thus not really
merit and scientific attitude As Mr. Gener told in other articles
of his book on the history of religions Socialism, etc. It comes down
to poetry, as the same Mr. Gener heroically confesses.

And now I say in conclusion that, considering his book as poetry, is worthy of greater appreciation.
It is highly articulate, entertaining at times, sometimes sublime, and always rich doctrine
of daring, original ideas and clear and well organized presentation of ideas Others suggested
she was alert and raised in every spirit, but is poor and infertile like mine, so great rush
of thoughts and so tangled skein of reasoning, which if not for fear of tiring my readers, I
aquietaría me to write this article, but write a dozen, and I would still much to say. But they
say and Stay in the pipeline for not ending this paper.

The irresponsibility of POETS

ON THE 'ODAS' OF D. Eduardo Marquina

Much can be said for and against the Odes of Mr. D. Eduardo Marquina, but not that is a book
negligible. I give not a little to think about, to inspire in my mind certain philosophical
contradictions or antinomies aesthetic and moral, which I am unable to resolve and I will
present here bluntly and frankly.

Horacio weighted with great enthusiasm, in his Epistle to the rammer,
the teacher under the poetry.

For it shows the right ways of living, the oracles dictate their
sentences, rise the walls of cities and gather in peace the human
race, subject to wise and just laws.

But this same Horace, who gives praise poetry so unique, We rarely
cites Democritus statement claiming that one must be crazy to be a
poet, and is expelled from Helicon who is in his right mind.

Ajústeme you such measures, I say now, and forgive the vulgarity of the phrase. How to reconcile
that poets are the light of the world, our guide and our beacon,
which are both crazy?

Everything is understood if we consider such madness as divine frenzy as sacred fury that infuses
estrus, fixing his sharp thorn in the breast of the bard. This, then owned of divinity, goes on
to say things well above the vulgar sense, and opens to reveal mysteries our startled eyes,
the light amplitude ideal horizon, the orderly succession and prescribed for future cases.

I'll settle and I aquietaría with this if all the poets who predict
that teach or admonish were in agreement, but as they are not unfortunately,
I sink into a sea ​​of ​​confusion.

So there I exclaim to myself, maybe they are crazy, really crazy, and be with his madness harmful
to the republic. That is why Plato banished them wisely of yours, either as a precaution, and
based on the proverb that says: the mad with grief is sane.

Made the foregoing considerations, yet instead of seeing clear I see dark matter and contradictory.

In
the beautiful eulogy that Heine made our eminent compatriot Rabbi Jehuda ben Levi of Toledo,
after weighing the high qualities of a soul, one supposes that same
God to create it, kissed charmed with her beauty, and the echo resounds
divine kiss resonate with the immortal bard's verses Toledo.

No wonder, therefore, Levi ben Jehuda assuming so supernaturally helped and loved you, that
you proclaim Heine king of the realm of thought and king, by the grace of God, inviolable and
irresponsible. Nobody but God must give account. The people, says Heine, can kill us, but you can
not judge ever. Thus Heine puts truly poetic work on the summit of all human approach and proclaims
with great abandon the irresponsibility of the poets. Let us do sense and how far less casually
such irresponsibility can and should be understood.

What is that sometimes we fall in love and a charm which the poet denies or affirms, commands
or prohibits, commends or censorship, but how smart, sincere and energetic affirm or deny and
express the censure or praise?

Quintana and the Duke of Frias, say, Philip II to portray the most opposed features and colors
and tend to infuse the ideas and feelings contrary on religion and politics of the sixteenth century
Spanish and the causes of the rise and the decline of our people, but we delighted and excited we
almost Like the verses of one or the other poet, now we agree with the Duke, now with Quintana,
in judging the winner of San Quentin and Lepanto, now we cut into the way we looks straight between
the two extremes that they play.

Are we to infer from here the complete disregard of the doctrine that poetry is exposed with such
that poetry is true and that the doctrine is exposed to and by the
grace of God?

This would lead to their ultimate limits denial that poets teach, and declared strong advocate
of art for art. Is further strengthened in my mind this way think, when I look at the works
of other poets perhaps more radically asserted and conflicting. Whether these three contemporary
Italian poets, Manzoni, Leopardi and Carducci. Is not it strange phenomenon that we love the
sacred hymn to the Pentecost, filled with deep Catholic faith and the earnest hope that the
religion of Christ is the final religion of our race, informing and causing all your progress
and improvement, which we also love ode to the sources the Clitumno,
whose inspiration is quite contrary, hailing with joy the poet to
because humanity is reclaimed denies that degrade beliefs and adopts
something way of ancient paganism, and that we love, finally, not
Catholic hopes Manzoni, or heathen hopes of Carducci, but sublime
despair and pessimism Leopardi, who denies God, or calls with frightful
blasphemy ugly hidden power that prevails for damage to all creatures?

Tired I've pondered and pondered to explain this phenomenon. I'll see if it manages to explain here
cipher the result of my musings.

Without doubt, I say, the mental basis of poetry is like the mental foundation of mathematics and
dialectics. There in the human soul certain first principles self-evident, incontrovertible
and unprovable, a certain idea in short, whose development is the law of thought and the science
of calculation. And such an idea is not purely sugetiva, mere form or status of our understanding,
but by faith we are irresistible and we can be sure that in the minds of those beings superior
to man is or may be in other worlds, and even in the same mind supreme must lie the same idea
but more fully developed, comprehensive and penetrating and bathing everything in its pure light
infinite and eternal.

The idea that, unfortunately, although it is in us, only limited and
as the germ, and is true we do not see well what is outside us, but
to reason about what out of us assume that there is construction or
on the ideal of pure thought.

Hence, not affirm that this thing or that, that the whole universe, that whatever is or can
be, is as we perceive or imagine it, but I imagined or perceived,
or say to yourself given the course, everything is linked together,
and made up a harmonious set of truths within our ideal world, although
perhaps not fit or respond accurately to the real world that is outside
of us, which we know very little and maybe have the wrong news by
operation of the senses.

Geometer does not respond to whether or not sphere, cube or cylinder that have solid, or be
circle or triangle of this kind or that what you draw on paper; than it answers is the accuracy of
their theorems and certainty of its demonstrations, given the assumption. Neither answer algebra
than they are worth in reality, the problem points to be resolved, but responds only that the
problem is properly solved. When you apply to reality, it is then or has devolved before determining
the value of each letter.

Thus, being real problem solving and always the same, may well in practice, descending the
reality of things, have many different results.

Is it poetry, I wonder, something like: creating beautiful, true and accurate the ideal world
that has been created, although in reality it is false because it was all course or because the
course was at least incomplete?

In my view, understanding and poetry, have an explanation and apology, not a few things that are told
in verse, which, if told in prose, would appear absurd or abominable
could lead to its author in a society rather severe to the prison
or the madhouse.

The blame for all this lies, to me what I can see, that poetry, which aims the manifestation of beauty
in a sensitive way, can only be imitating the real and real than we imagine, an element that can
be error or lie. Hence the advantage music, art primaveal leads to poetry, art school. The music,
in the perfection its purity, creates beautiful, no need to imitate anything. Believe in time, through
sound, not teach or admonish, but not misleading, or wrong either.

Meditation above all, exposed to exhaust, to sin no verbosity, has used to quiet my mind, after
reading the Odes of D. Eduardo Marquina, and to affirm, without scruple of conscience, which
I think are good and true poet's work.

To grant, however, to such an irresponsible poet Heine speaks, we must not take it seriously,
practical reality, the power of his poetry teacher. Those who took it seriously Aeschylus
in Prometheus Bound, assumed that Jupiter took revenge on his blasphemies
directing its eagle from the air consumption falling leave a huge
turtle that had been in the grip, on the glorious bald venerable playwright,
and jumped the brains.

Let us therefore less so seriously Odes D. Eduardo Marquina to leave in peace with the heavenly
powers and prevent any miracle to harm you.

With this limitation it can be said that the Odes have something by way of Prometheus Bound
Aeschylus, and some also, but accept them as prophecies of Ezekiel's visions and Revelation
from Patmos.

Although all agree that the state of society and the world leaves much to be desired and physical
evil and moral evil is no shortage on earth, I have assured that the Things are bad in our age less
than in previous ages. I have no doubt of progress. What happens is that the moral has been
great progress in relations between individuals with others, while there has been little progress
in the collective life, little in the body social, none of peoples relationships with other
people.


"It is only the bark of the dog," he said, smilingly, and his hearers somewhat shamefacedly
resumed their places, but this time leaving a dear space in which he might stand and handle
his weapon.

Constans took steady aim, and, to his surprise, missed again, the bullet flying wide. The failure
nettled him. He made his preparations for the third essay with care, raising and lowering the
pistol several times, until he was sure that he could not miss the mark. A third failure--the
bullet clipping a splinter from a fence-post on the opposite side of the ring. A mist rose
before Constans's eyes; what did it mean? Could he have deceived himself in thinking that he
had mastered this secret of the ancients? Was it to fail him now, when all depended upon success?
His hand trembled so that he could hardly draw the trigger. The hammer fell for the fourth
time, but no explosion followed, the cartridge having missed fire. He had now but one shot
left, and the whispers of disapproval and disappointment among the crowd were plainly audible.

Without stopping to reflect, Constans leaped over the rail of the gallery to the arena below.
As he jumped, the girl, Alexa, started, and a cry escaped her parted lips; it was a sigh rather
than an exclamation, the voice of a crushed flower suspiring its last vital breath. And Constans
did not hear.

For perhaps half a dozen seconds man and beast stood motionless, waiting upon each other. The
bull tossed his head savagely, his tail twitching, and a cloud of dust and gravel rising under
his impatient hoof. Constans, with finger on trigger, moved a step to the right so as to face
him fairly. Suddenly the great horns came down with a vindictive sweep, the shoulders heaved
in the first impulse of the coming charge. Like the snap of a whip the report rang out clean
and sharp, and the bullet went home at just the one vulnerable point in the thick skull--that
at which the butcher aims his pole-axe. The bull pulled up short, the glaring eyes softened
as though in wonder at this strange performance that had been enacted before him; then, as
the people still held their breath, the brute sank quietly to his knees and rolled over dead.

A woman started in to laugh hysterically, but her voice was drowned in a mighty shout; like
a wave the crowd passed over the barrier, and Constans grasped helplessly at half a hundred
out-stretched hands. A babel of voices arose; the arena, filled to overflowing with excited
men and women, was comparable only to some gigantic ant-hill.

Fifty yards outside of the main palisade stood an oak-tree. Under the Stockader law no standing
timber should have been permitted at a less distance than one hundred paces, but the oak was
such a fine specimen that Red Oxenford had allowed it to remain--a fatal error.

A bowstring twanged; the arrow sped to its mark--the fair young breast of Oxenford's daughter--and
in her father's arms the maiden gasped and died; all this in the space of time in which a cloud
of the bigness of a man's hand might pass across the sun. Down from the lower branches of that
accursed oak dropped the lithe figure of a man garbed all in gray. "Stop him!" called a weak,
uncertain voice, but no one moved. The man in gray waved his hand derisively and disappeared
into the bush. An inarticulate sound arose from the closely packed throng in the enclosure,
the exhalation of a universal sigh.

Red Oxenford had made neither sound nor sign. He stood motionless, his daughter's head cradled
in the hollow of his arm; he stared stupidly at the girl's face, so pitifully white and small
it seemed, with its virginal coronal of flaxen hair--then he fell in a heap, like to a collapsing
wall.

Piers Major gently withdrew the bolt from the wound and held it up to view. Its message was
plain to all, for none save the Doomsmen feathered their arrows with the plume of the gray
goose. Only now the quills were stained to a darker hue.

"It is her blood," he said, and the shaft of polished hickory snapped like a straw between
his fingers. "Her blood! and of Doom shall we require it." And at that all the people shouted
and then stood with uncovered heads, while the young men bore away the body of Oxenford's daughter
on their locked shields and gave it to her mother.

That night Constans rode out from Deepdene at the head of twenty picked men, leading them to
the secret place where he had stored the guns and ammunition which he had brought from Doom.
Two days of practice with the unfamiliar weapons, and on the morning of the third the little
squad, reinforced by a company of two hundred men-at-arms, set out upon the northern road.

Towards noon they passed through Croye. It had been their intention to stop here for the mid-day
meal, but none cared to propose a halt after entering this strange city of silence. Ordinarily
the central square would have been filled with a voluble, chaffering crowd, it being a market-day;
now there was not a living thing to be seen, not even a hog wallowing in the kennel nor a buzzard
about the butcher-stalls. 

THE PURIFICATION OF POETRY

ON THE 'ODAS' OF D. Eduardo Marquina

In poetry there is no doubt staggering under purifying. I do not want to understand it all, as
I heard that Goethe understood. Such a way of understanding it is more than enough selfish.
The poet, example, feels like suicide, and instead of and to dispose of such harmful Werther
writes wanted. Thus, not only provides healing of the mania of suicide but applaud you and admire
your talent. The trouble is that the book from which the poet has healed and where he dumped
the poison which can suffocating poison to which no take and read it carefully and produce a
hideous epidemic of suicides. No lies or not I love that lies in
this purifying virtue of poetry.

Legitimate and holy virtue purifying the same has to assert and goes for the poet to his readers.

In
the epic and the drama it is seen clearly. Tyrants, traitors refined, monsters of iniquity may appear
in the drama or epic, but in sin shall penance, and the universal condemnation will be your
punishment. It also understood that crimes and the horrors depicted in a poetic work should not take
the appearance or likeness Full of real events, as claimed today that called naturalism. The aesthetic
pleasure would not then. On the contrary, we would have a serious disappointment. Who can enjoy
the to actually see someone who throws a fifth floor balcony and made an omelet, or people who give
of stabbings, to take poison or die of hunger, poverty, of tuberculosis or other contagious
illnesses and ugly? Represented all that live very far without the appropriate ideality, is
the opposite of art: no compassion and purifies the terror, Aristotle as he wanted. It will be
more vivid picture, as they say in the day, but evil art and vicious.
 Besides," and here her color deepened, "it is where he lived, he who
was my friend. If I could but find some little thing that had been his--a glove or one of his
books! Now do be a good Nanna and help me in this."

But the practical Nanna shook her head. "That mad, old graybeard, who considers it a contamination
to even look upon a woman, is it likely that he will invite you into his sanctuary and set
himself to answer your foolish questions? It is supposed to be sufficient grace for a woman
if the Shining One deigns to accept the gifts that she lays upon his altar."

"Then we will go dressed as men. There is everything we can want in the presses up-stairs,
and I can steal the key of the wicket gate from out of Kurt's very pocket. Now, Nanna, dear----"

And of course Nanna yielded, for she saw that her darling's heart was set upon this thing.
Quinton Edge was still absent in the Black Swan, and it would be an easy matter to hoodwink
old Kurt; he was always fuddled with ale nowadays. To-morrow would be Friday, the day of the
weekly sacrifice; they could make the trial then.

It was hard upon noon of the following day when the two women drew near to the temple of the
Shining One. Nanna, clad in doublet and small-clothes, swung jauntily along, one hand on dagger-hilt
and careless challenge in her snapping, black eyes, the picture of a swaggering younker. But
Esmay, at the last moment, could not bring herself to don habiliments exclusively masculine.
So she compromised by wearing a round jacket with a rolling collar and tucking away her hair
under a boy's cap. A long rain-coat, for which the showery morning was an excuse, completed
her outward attire and concealed her petticoats from casual view. Yet in any case her blushes
had been spared, for they met nobody on their way, and the open space in front of the temple
was deserted. Not a single worshiper had come to pay honor and tithe to the Shining One; the
altar was empty of offerings, and the priest himself was absent from his accustomed post. Yet
upon the ear fell the rumble and clang of moving machinery, and the eye, piercing through the
half-lights of the archway, caught indefinite glimpses of the pulsing mysteries of wheel and
piston-rod that lay within the shadows.

"He must be within," said Nanna, leading the way. "Don't stumble around like that. Here, take
my hand."

Prostrate in front of the switch-board they found the priest, a mere anatomy of a man, with
his checks shrunken to the jaw, and his wasted limbs no larger than those of a child. Yet he
was alive and conscious, the deep-set eyes glowing with suspicious fire as they turned upon
his unexpected guests. The improvement and progress,
also (because I will not deny that there has been), come out and overlap and do not stick our inner
being, he enlarged and improved. Although I have said, I still say that, in my opinion, that
Napoleon Alejandro worth more than Hegel and Aristotle, Pindar or Isaiah more than Victor Hugo,
and Phidias and Praxiteles than Canova and Thorvaldsen. In all this is denial progress. Superman Superman
was two thousand or three thousand years in the day. The distance to be infinite intelligence
that we have separate sovereign, can be saved at any time, please the sky, rapture of love divine,
precious prize awarded a unique person and has nothing to do with progress. What is as a series of
degrees bringing us closer to perfection, is not the path that leads us to the point where superhumanity
appears. Or almost with others of different breed than the man hit me with wands in that way. I'm almost
to assert that, as radical and substantial, between God and man intermediate excellence is
not discovered. After God, it seems that man is the highest today is conceived and has ever conceived.
All beings with the appearance of higher to us, we submit and get to our service. Through incantations
to evoke demons through exorcism's throw from where he ought not to be; the Sylphs and the sprites
are dying of love for us, the gods and goddesses of all religions tend to fall in love with
mortals and marry them; genii come to avail ourselves, to protect and to inspire poetry, prose and
other charms, fairies weave rich fabrics, made bright jewelry and favors for the princesses and
even the fregatrices, the angels are our custody and come to us as ambassadors and even as messengers,
and the archangels, and are Paraninfo and as a squire and guides to accompany us on our trips. Let's
see, I ask, if is lawful to ask or expect more after reaching or have reached all this?

In other improvements, we could achieve over time, I noticed immediately that the contradiction
arises.

Let's say you became widespread among men to be as beautiful as the Apollo Belvedere, and among women
to be as beautiful and shapely as the Venus de Milo or Callipygian, and the elegant and aristocratic
point would find vulgar and ordinary to be so and to distinguish and be deformed skull, compressing
or filling him Burujón, empecatadas incur and other extravagances. And let us also if the
end so skillfully arranged the body of society, that vice is always punished and virtue always
rewarded. Well in my opinion, I could not think of anything worse. Then yes virtue would be
but a name. Cuckoos and ragamuffin, motivated by the sure reward, would be the most virtuous,
and when someone, despising the interest, was delivered to ugliest vices and crimes perpetrate
senior mark, we would be inclined to believe either that was crazy, and it was therefore irresponsible,
or that was a creature of condition very high, whose spirited and sublime passions drove him
to dispose of the vulgar selfishness and run off the common pattern that we all would have
locked up.

In short, no more tired and I would say that no one Columbro by the
advent Superman, without simultaneously occurring insoluble contradictions.

Possible is not However, the occurrence superman. But who assures me that is better morally
than man now, and not with more knowledge and power, lawless and wicked? Fracastoro, in the
verses that I serve as an epigraph, considered possible the emergence of a caste supermen, but
will not be good, but are insolent and ferocious giants will not puppet head will rise up against
God, and try to throw the sky, and make us victims and their slaves. And Swedenborg, when
he was on the planet Venus, saw and treated the men there, and so tells them, and so hurry to enter
them was, we can calculate how much they would suffer and the great misfortune to come upon
us if such a breed, so smug, arrogant and powerful, appeared in this globe we inhabit.

I conclude, therefore, (and not because I'm running out of reasons, but because I run out of
patience and I fear that readers will end well), that the most wise and prudent is not wish
or hope that superman comes, and be content with regular men as they
have always used, although rich, increasingly, with ingenious inventions,
already achieved as electric lighting, and how that will undoubtedly
be achieved in give direction to the balloons, take out the colors
in the photographs of the camera obscura, and who know if you get
to feed and convoluted extracts quintessence without this gross power
now, which, after a year, every man swallows a lot of substances,
hundreds of times heavier and bulkier than his body.

In short, much, much is can invent and improve even before the time comes that the appearance
of Superman we come over. What is Sarah Bernard skills and witty writings John Richepin, but
I am glad because I delight and I love, I dare not infer that the appearance is close.

SR inductions. D. POMPEY GENER

Among the thousand misfortunes that beset today to mother Spain, not least the itch remedy that
has taken hold of many people. Spring from the itching, as abundant wellspring, social and political
speeches, articles, novels and dramas and not a few scientific books or most scientists, who
could well be described as political or psicoiatría therapeutic endemic. And do not condemn I understand
the itch, which is natural and invincible, no less the result, which, if it becomes profitable,
is without doubt, or can be, and fun as interesting. And how can I condemn them without condemning
it, which I also got a healer writing or dictating modestly some
recipes?

What I dislike me, or rather me afraid, are not the same recipes,
and pronounced, as written, in the gallery, theater, in newspapers
or in large volumes, but people are passionate about what prescriptions
prescribe, look at it the more excellent panacea and it strives to
implement the country ill disturbing the rest of you need more than
anything to convalesce and regain their health and old force.

Anyway, the books written and published and, with the intent to heal and regenerate, deserve careful
study, which, if God gives me life and good humor, I think I devote myself, no no hope of
picking some fruit, artwork and contribute a little theory, and that practice, I am disabled,
to the desired regeneration.

For now, I shall indicate here a few questions that I offer, because I think in any science or
art of medicine throughout the former has to be the knowledge of the disease, and secondly to
find and implement the remedy.

The disease often remains hidden and only known symptoms, external phenomena visible or tangible,
are no cause and effect.

And if we take has the effect, do not expose ourselves to wander the cure? Such is the consideration
that discourages me, I retract the office of healer and that moves me not to give more credit
than I give myself more confident other healers.

I will say here, in this regard, what inspires me and pre-scientific common sense creeping.

Who does not agree with me say, as I have repeatedly stated on other
occasions, Spain is now richer, more people supported, grows best
in their fields, have more industry and trade and can boast of illustrious
sons, so smart, so well spoken, so unobtrusive and skilled as any
other time in its history?

The decline, prostration, degeneration, or as we like to call it, is not therefore absolute but relative.
In the path of progress, where the nations of Europe are guiding and instructing the rest of
human race and this for three or four centuries, Spain has been lately far behind, and hence the
contemptuous isolation that leave us going forward, our mistrust
and despondency in whom peculiar self-distrust.

For something like a spiritual backlash, there are times to avoid being killed more than arrogant
we just, we assess the merit of our men and our things of the past, and until we do the apotheosis,
or at least the most superlative praise, and this, and of that of the present times. Then qualify
unbeaten General excites us, more eloquent than Cicero and Demosthenes our favorite speaker;
and the author of the comedy or the drama we've welcomed much more sublime than Shakespeare,
whose works have usually been careful not to read.

Unfortunately, this laudatory enthusiasm soon as the fire goes out
of tow, and prostration deeper again lord our souls, saddened and
humiliated.

There is a way of reasoning from which many individuals do not realize. Run without receiving that pass,
and take the consequences can be very cruel. Of inferiority patent visible and clear on issues
and cases of practical life, we infer inferiority that is most substantial and important in being and
in the lives of the people. Take a example to clarify and better explain this idea.

Let us imagine a lady, beautiful and rich, who want to live and lives in Spain with all the refinements
workmanship and now style. This lady will come from England his cars
and horses, and France their headdresses and costumes.

Perhaps fearing that a Spanish cook the poison, will come from foreign land, with the view of an
aristocratic poet, a

Some excellent chemical He studied and earned the fringe In the Café de Paris Sorbonne cooks.

Done
all that, the speech comes fatally above.

When here, will run the lady, and is woven with the delicacy in France, or make cars like the English,
or so beautiful breed horses or caps and gowns are made as in Paris or even seasoned tasty dishes
that delight my palate, it is clear that in other tasks with determination and in other higher
yields lucirnos we will not.

    I should, therefore dismiss
    that should have very little
    value and be very pesky,
    as they say now, novels, poetry and even the philosophies of my homeland.

Under such consideration, or the lady does not ever take a book in her beautiful white hands, or
if it blunts literate or philosopher, Paris will also bring their spiritual nourishment, and
brings its beauties, ornaments, elegance and material gifts.

I am not an informer tilde. I do not betray or accuse the lady, if she alone sinned. What more,
what less, we all sin in the same style. Cast the first stone against the guilty who is considered
innocent.

Has deep roots in our soil the tree of our ancient and pure culture. Exotic seeds, even food
and tasty, and weed also coming outside, not drown the tree, or near
dry and burning him and suck the juice yet; but begin to deteriorate
a bit.

The Gallicism invades our thoughts minds more than they should. I do not disapprove at all
the imitation, but it is necessary that the trial straight forward to refuse the evil and choose
good to then imitate.

The pity is that referred to imitate without prior selection, simplicity or extravagance all
transpyrenean seduce us, and let ourselves be carried away by the enthusiasm with no criteria
reasonable to restrain us.

Now living alone who has this writing and not paying attention, for their old age their illness,
almost anything that happens outside of Spain, a substantial chunk of doctrines philosophy, the
direction it takes and follows most of the spirits and the current ideas and opinions that inform
the newest literature, but sees everything, portrayed as a faithful mirror, in the Spanish literary
productions now, especially when presumed to contain or to be philosophy.

Whenever I condemn or deplore this travesty, this lack or shortage of originality castiza, but
I find it difficult or impossible to avoid so, and absolve the writer or the thinker to whom
notice is required. Why did not commit to accepting the concept of philosophy usually forms
today? What forms do I say today, when I should say that has formed forever? Even as a former
classroom sounded a familiar proverb that I dare to quote here, because it comes in support of my
assertion, but it uses pretty words and nothing of pure vulgarity. The proverb says: Grammar and Philosophy
babas with beards, which means that in order dialectical philosophy may be the beginning and
foundation of all knowledge, but in the chronological order of philosophy is the last thing you learned
or can be learned: is a firm seat, very solid and secure the throne where reflection or thought
to put the experimental science and long series of observations and analysis has become and tidy.

Move
me to say that reading a recent book entitled inductions due to the significant cultivadísimo
and eloquent wit and enthusiasm of Mr. D. Pompey Gener.

I am delighted to coincide with the author as understood to have the same concept of philosophy. Is undeniable
to me that philosophy is not good without empirical knowledge of what on that philosophy, and
when not philosophize about something, the philosophy has to be vain and mere play of empty
words.

Now as long, and let for whatever reason, we have not worn the Spanish in the sciences of observation
and study of nature or of the visible universe, it can be inferred
that the crown of the life sciences and this study, or philosophy,
or must be between us anachronistic and out of fashion, or to some
extent has to be imported, as the electric telegraph, photography,
telephone, the phonograph and not a few other subtle and astonishing
inventions.

Do not be surprised, then, that philosophy as imported into Spain imported the inventions mentioned.
It should, however, make a distinction. Take for example any of the aforementioned devices:
phone, for instance. Its usefulness and reality are so tested, there is no means by which we deceive
ourselves. It may be that in practice we are more clumsy, we do bad and inconvenient, but at the
end of the day we will learn to call. I think we have learned, and phoned in Spain as well as
in any other country world. But philosophy, and forgive me as despicable and lowly expression,
is a whole another matter: it is a matter a thousand times more complicated
and mysterious, and it may happen, and my view happens, we take as
truth the lie, the dream and reasoning wise the biggest delusions.

It may happen also something contrary to what happens with the inventions of science natural that
they all agree and do not oppose each other or roar of being together as they say.
 Even his larger
plans had apparently been laid aside; not once had he left the boundaries of Arcadia House,
except for the weekly council meeting at the Citadel Square. But perhaps, again, this was the
crisis for which he had been waiting; even as she meditated she heard his step in the hallway
and his knock at her door; then it opened, and Quinton Edge stood before her.

He did not appear to notice Nanna's absence, but crossed over to the window where Esmay stood.
"Come," he said, and Esmay obeyed, being yet faint with terror lest his hands should touch
her. And this he must have guessed, for he drew aside and passed out first, motioning her to
follow. The door leading to his apartments stood open. Esmay hesitated.

"Yes," said Quinton Edge, and the girl turned and searched his face. She did not understand
what she saw there, yet it contented her, and she crossed the threshold. Quinton Edge followed,
reappearing almost immediately and carefully locking the door behind him. He descended the
stairs and passed out to the eastern portico, where his horse should have been in waiting.
It was not there, and Quinton Edge grew angry. "Kurt!" he called, once and twice and thrice.
Then at last the delinquent appeared. The sullenness of sleep was still upon him, and when
his master would have reproved him for his tardiness he answered back insolently.

"Enough!" said Quinton Edge, and struck him across the mouth with his riding-whip. Then vaulting
into the saddle, he spurred through the gateway, riding hard for the northwest.

Old Kurt gazed after his master. "Thirty lashes at Middenmass," he muttered, "and now this--this----"

       *       *       *       *       *

Three hours later a boyish figure scaled the wall and dropped into the sunken way. Fangs, who
was sunning herself on the terrace, looked up with white teeth bared, then rose, wagging her
tail in friendly greeting. But Nanna, with a hasty word to the dog, entered the house and ran
up to Esmay's room. Great news indeed! But where was the child? Nanna stood stock-still, gazing
stupidly around the empty room. "Esmay," she murmured, in a half-whisper, and passed out into
the corridor. She went straight to the door leading to Quinton Edge's apartments. A tiny hair-pin
of tortoise-shell lay on the floor. Nanna picked it up with a sob and regarded it fixedly.
She knocked twice upon the door, but there was no response. She tried her strength against
it, and shook her head. Nothing could be done here. She went down-stairs, and looked to see
if the key of the wicket gate was hanging in its accustomed place behind the master's leather
chair. It was there; she took it and let herself into the street. There was only Fangs, the
great, black bitch, to watch her go, the dog whining and leaping upon the wicket gate as it
swung back into place.

XXIV

THE EVE OF THE THIRD DAY

A touch upon Constans's shoulder and a voice in his ear aroused him. He sprang to his feet;
the sunshine was streaming through the glazeless casements, and Constans, being yet heavy with
sleep, blinked against it as a man drunken with wine. Oxenford confronted him. "The attack?"
questioned Constans, and for the life of him could not help yawning prodigiously.

Red Oxenford laughed. "In that case I should have pulled your ear off instead of wasting time
shouting into it. By the thunders of God, man, but you sleep soundly."

Constans was fully awake now. He glanced at the sun, which was high in the sky, and then at
Oxenford's gaunt face.

"I have left you to do the watching alone," he said, apologetically.

"What matter?" was the indifferent answer. "For me slumber would not have meant forgetfulness,
and the watching made the waiting so much the easier."

Constans stood by the window looking across the Citadel Square and directly up the Palace Road.
"I see no sign of Piers Major," he said at length.

"Down in the square," replied Oxenford, laconically.

In truth there was a most unusual activity pervading the stronghold of the Doomsmen. Already
the long rows of guard-huts were tenanted by a throng of women and children, and the number
was being constantly reinforced by fresh arrivals. Guards were pacing the walls, and a squad
of the younger men were engaged in setting up the artillery machines for hurling stones so
as to command the open space in front of the north gate. New ropes were being fitted to the
torsion levers, and an ox-cart loaded with ammunition, in the shape of rounded boulders, creaked
noisily through the gateway.

"The warning must have come down from the High Bridge at an early hour," said Constans, thoughtfully.
"How long has all this been going on?"

"Only within the last hour," returned Oxenford. "I waited for the old gray wolf himself to
seek his lair before arousing you. He has but just crawled into it--out of arrow-shot," he
added, regretfully.

Constans could see half a dozen of the green-jerkined guards lounging about the entrance to
the White Tower, evidence that Dom Gillian was resting within. There was nothing to be seen
of Quinton Edge, but surely he would not be far away from the storm-centre. Probably he was
directing the defence at the northern boundary or even at the High Bridge.

Slowly the day dragged on for the watchers in the "Flat-iron." It was impossible to form any
conjecture as to how the preliminary conflict was proceeding; it was not even certain that
it had begun. Piers Major had undoubtedly forced the passage of the bridge, but apparently
he had been content with holding his advantage. He might not begin to move until late in the
day, and he would proceed slowly and cautiously.

From time to time a messenger galloped down the Palace Road. At once he would be surrounded
by an eager throng and escorted to the guard-room of the White Tower, where Ulick had set up
his headquarters. For it was Ulick who had been left in command of the citadel garrison and
intrusted with the preparations for the impending siege. Twice Constans had caught him fairly
with his binoculars, and he could not be mistaken in the features and carriage of his friend.
His friend--one might say the only friend that he had ever had--and Constans felt his heart
heavy within him, knowing that they must henceforth walk on diverging paths.

Constans found it difficult to keep his men under discipline. It was all-important that their
presence should be unsuspected by the enemy, but it would have been betrayed a score of times
had not his vigilance intervened. Red Oxenford, in particular, grew more and more unmanageable;
he had neither eaten nor slept now for three days, and the strain was telling on him. Finally
he announced that he would wait no longer. The north gate was open, and what should prevent
his walking straight up to the White Tower and sticking his boar-spear into the gray wolf's
hide? "And I will--by the seven thunders of God!" His voice rose into a shriek. Modern languages stammering
and imperfect even in the Middle Ages unfold with breathtaking blooms and produced masterpieces
in several literatures, it enlarges and becomes nearly full, in human mind, the concept of
the visible universe, are known to experience material things land and sky, reborn classical antiquity
and the renaissance, and being imitated, the itching of imitation begets new and original
poetry, divine, artistic creations, flamboyant philosophical systems and working methods of observation
and study to examine the nature and the human spirit and wring their innermost secrets. In comparison
of what made the century XVI, is less than the work of our century, but let us not forget not to
include it may be called new sciences as important as chemistry and comparative philology, and
so clever and useful findings as steam for motive power, photography, the electric telegraph, the telephone
and the phonograph. All this and it is extremely important, but and it matters very little when
compared to the Renaissance transformed the ancient world and to discover the New World. And
if not then thought he was going to emerge from the middle of the triumphant humanity an exquisite
and perfect being who llamásemos Superman, unless There is reason to believe now because Renan
enter the sentimental novel entitled Life of Jesus because there are railways and electric lighting,
and because they are invented sewing machines and bicycles.

If I leave my fervent dominated by philanthropy and my love to all
progress, I would convinced by the arguments that Mr. Gener claims,
and believe, like him, who is nearing appearance of Superman, but,
although I am progressive, I am not so much, and if I wanted believe
that Mr. Gener believe, come to my mind many doubts that prevent me,
sick in spite of myself.

I will take some of these questions as they occur to me. And I also to submit amendments or modifications
to the doctrine of humanity ascending as Mr. Gener professes, so that, after we let ourselves
be convinced and accept, be modified or amended, as to me it seems more reasonable and equitable.

First,
I am glad that the rise of mankind to be superhuman gender general or total, although in the future
superman would also, as in for mankind, and proper proproporción, inept and unfit, dull and clever,
and dumb and discreet, and so on.

On the day, England, France and Germany, and perhaps any other nation,
has not denied that are ahead of us in this crazy race, in which we
all, at the racetrack History, and approaching the finish line and
it would be unfortunate and foolish case to come before to that target
people of the North, they should come suddenly become supermen, taking
us to go now so behind, not to advance, but the animal back to or
to the inferior species that have gone out, ending up being, in relation
to the newly emerged Superman, what is now the monkey in relation
to us.

With that I will not take even of all the speeches of Mr. Gener and despite my unalloyed liberalism.

I
will say that I'm under or not under me is not the case. Good clarified is that the case is or is not.

Meditate
on their possibility.

Begin with a distinction. If progress means the accumulated capital of observations studies,
systems and discoveries that past generations have been bequeathed to us, that we maintain and
no doubt increase and improve, I believe in progress on foot face value. The darkest day bachelor
know more grammar than Homer, the most humble professor Institute Herodotus knows more history, and
natural things, their affinities, compositions, decomposition and changes, knows more than any mediocrity
Hippocrates village pharmacist. I do not deny this. What I deny is that this accumulation,
that this vast amount of doctrine, this effort and work of the spirit
of humanity, for three thousand years, has been infused in that same
spirit that art has been made being with him, giving worth and power
higher than he had before.

True, Homer, Herodotus and Hippocrates were less instructed that Victor Hugo, Taine, Renan and
Claude Bernard, but, in my opinion, worth much more than them.

Whence I infer that such substantial progress and staff, whereby
is to appear soon superman on the face of our planet, has not taken
any steps for at least about thirty centuries.

How do I set I doubt that Hegel knew more chemistry, astronomy, zoology, mechanics, history,
etc., that Aristotle himself? And But with Hegel as being original and powerful thinker, and
have a very fruitful and constructive fantasy and a sublime force to synthesize it all in
harmony, combining the real and the ideal and enclosing within its idea, which ever is developed, it
still seems Hegel small when I approach the image of him conceive the colossal image used to represent in
my mind the wonderful grand master Alexander.

I will not go to the opposite end of Mr. Gener, or affirm that men have degenerated. I merely present
here, without trying to resolve a contradiction that assails my soul. I want to believe, and
believe that people today are not worth, at bottom, essentially and nature, neither more nor less
than any other century, that education and the culture, so they have inherited from their elders,
for the treasure they have gathered for centuries and which arise as a pedestal, modern thinkers
and writers are worth more than the old, that in some sense, for the dissemination of knowledge,
There are more people on the day it is worth. And in the day, not Napoleon, but the most awkward
generals, defeat the son of Philip disrupting their phalanges with two or three guns Krupp, the
atheist Colonel Moses Ingersol prove their ignorance of chemistry, astronomy and geology, and that
all who had studied science in schools the priesthood of Egypt, not worth a Pitoche next to
the acquired by him in the Boston schools, and the last school teacher would Hesiod absorbed
and bewildered, and perhaps Pindar himself, if he began to explain that the names are masculine,
feminine and neutral, which may be or are in the nominative, accusative,
dative or otherwise, and a thousand other scientific truths the like
of which is quite evident that neither Hesiod and Pindar had noticed.

But Hence the contradiction. That same ignorance, the lack of education, let's say well, and that
very short knowledge of the old, born in our mind the awe and admiration we infuse their works.
More than the result of reflection and study, we feel inspired, revealed and divine. We see
in them the laborious effort or advance the science was acquired in the classroom, or suddenly
taken and given in a dictionary, or any another big book, but we see the spontaneous and fresh
freshness of wit himself, radiant light Inside, a pair beautifully illustrated by the god.

Mr. Gener traces a brief overview of philosophy of history, to test that approach at times
appear to be superman, but in many ways, I find false philosophy, and in any proof that this
appearance is close. By contrast, in several paragraphs of the last chapter of his book, which
explains his doctrine, he paints with such colors black society of the day, if we allanásemos to
believe, would ensure that mankind, instead of advancing morally degenerated or warped.

The main fault is pitiful degeneration, according to Mr. Gener, the erroneous belief that all
men are equal. For Mr. Gener nothing more absurd than equality. In my view, Mr. Gener is right,
if equality is understood in a way, but that somehow no one ever understood equality, now or ever,
where Mr. Gener creates himself a ghost or twit to look forward to topple the thrown of his
criticism.

Christianity, according to Mr. Gener, came to proclaim the equality of men in abjection and
misery, and the French Revolution and its ideas, taught and held the same equality Although levels
to all men, so tall, and being equally capable.

The accusation against Christianity seems so baseless as the charges against ideas revolutionary at
this point. Nobody in his view, by fervent Christian or tremendous revolutionary it is, has
ever known inequality of men, nor has it stopped notice the differences between them, because
some are low and high others weak some, and other strong, some clever, and many awkward, and
with regard to intelligence, natural agility and willingness to various trades, crafts and
chores, give and give scales always many degrees.

Equality that Christianity and the Revolution is agreed, is for low or better said, comes before
any religious doctrine or philosophical: it is radical and essential equality human nature,
the rights and duties of her birth and that it is based, with such evidence, it is enough common
sense to recognize that, although matter the enshrining of religion
and the laws, revolutionary or not, hold and for protection against
violence and injustice.

Equality so just do not understand that it can be destroyed by the doctrine of humanity upward,
that Mr. Gener holds with such enthusiasm.

In the way of understanding the Christian equality, Mr. Gener, blinded by passion antireligious,
incurs several errors. Neither heaven nor earth, nor in this life or the future, Christianity recognizes
that the fool and the wise, let alone the holy and the vicious are equal, unless radical and
essentially. And then, this equality is not based on vileness and contempt for the man himself,
but in the high concept that makes be it Christianity, teaching us that every soul of man is
the image of God, who should aspire to be perfect as God is God and so loved that he sacrificed
to redeem, and so dear, who wanted to join her and even the mortal
body which it is enclosed.

No doubt the fervently Christian soul when he goes to God your prayers and inner speech, becomes
very humble, is described as unworthy of sinners, evil of all evil and vile you can imagine,
but we understand very well that this says and admits the soul when compared with the highest
ideal of perfection, of rectitude, goodness and beauty, high end of all their aspirations and
white Unavailable their views and aspirations. When that same Christian soul, not by virtuous
deeds he has done, because this would miss the humility, but by the ability to feel itself and
the noble destination for which God created her and examines referred
to himself, instead of being under the concept in that it is so sublime
concept, which is not that of any creature leads of those affected
or likely to see, or imagine or pretend that or of that faith or revelation
known.

The soul of the most wretched human creature can be raised, if not for intelligence, love, to the
divine Being, it can go up to heaven and sit, as he sat Francisco Thus, in the throne on which
sat Lucifer before his fall. Repent, then, Mr. Gener his declamation against Christian equality
based on how miserable they are. If the is a confession of real meanness and contempt of himself,
God come and see, as is commonly say. Equality, therefore, there is in Christianity in power:
the power infinite we all have to be called children of God and heirs of his kingdom immortal
and glory. And what is in act, as it would be absurd equality, inequality is what there, as some
are reprobate and other saints; a just and sinners, and some acolytes and sexton and other
mitred abbots, archbishops and even Popes.

On democratic equality, which also condemns Mr. Gener, declaiming against it supposing hindrance
of progress, is to make plain fed similar defense.

Democratic equality, rational and discreetly understood, is not being performed, but in order to become
that power and do not choke or limit thanks to privileges odious. In this sense, democratic equality
is fair and reasonable in theory, and do not serve to invalidate the abuses and evils that
may arise from it. What can not be born evil and abuse?

The clearest manifestation of democratic equality is universal suffrage. Not refute I thousand
arguments against him do: accept as well founded, but above all these arguments, there is
a compelling reason that invalidated and destroyed. No doubt that an association men for a given
company, whose success concur about the capital, other with intelligence, others with their skill,
expertise and skill in any particular skill or trade, and others only with the hard work of their
hands, universal suffrage would be equally absurd, as well as what would be the equal sharing
of gains and profits. But the political society city ​​or state association is a very different
nature and purpose. Its main purpose is men protect the free exercise of their rights, to
suppress any violence that and not to undermine the slightest obstacle to the charitable work of
each individual. In this there is no lower inequality between the
partners.

I almost say, or not almost say that the laborer who wins two or three pesetas a day has the same right,
and perhaps greater interest, that the capitalist who has three thousand
hard daily income, which the government is good, wise and judicious.

Because if the Government gets it wrong and ruin occurs, it is likely the Capitalist save much
of his fortune and continue enjoying it, or your own country semiarruinada, or in a foreign
country, where perhaps there are funds or property, while the laborer starve if it sinks the
industry that provided jobs and wages, and while most traditional be him, and the more proper
to their homeland is the trade which it carries greater their misery
and despair, for there is flat and easy to migrate to foreign land,
especially with family, looking for work and sustenance.

In view therefore of the foregoing consideration, Clearly I have for the poor porter, the dark
and helpless peasant, is about at least as interested as the Fúcar or Croesus, in prosperity
and good governance the republic. For the rich is this business more or less comfortable and more or
less fine joys, and the poor can be life or death business, can not win two or three ESP used
to earn, and having to resort to begging or little effective charitable public land whose wealth
promoted his work, and whose integrity and whose honor may shed his blood.

Understood that, for the love of truth and fairness, and not for adulation or flattery of the
masses commoner, I dare say what I say, against the splendid and curious aristocracy whose doctrines
says Mr. Gener, and believes that it is based or founded on the proud culture of that small
part of our lineage, which, it seems, is humanity ascending is now close to form the nucleus
or group of supermen.

The flamboyant aristocracy, or say to yourself the superman, does not want Mr. Gener arising
from revolution but by evolution, following the path of progress, not because we have now; but
if you follow the right path and we have strayed, not understood what luck we reaching the superhuman
for more developments are made. Ill have to enthrone trace supermen, if we are to judge accurately
the paint that makes society Mr. Gener present: "The more cunning, he says, climbing power
directly, or the protection of laws, relying for money, have been imposed, and companies groan
in slavery today thousand times worse than the old. A commercial piracy, industrial feudalism
have been afflict the human race with a government of nullity, toy bancocracia that protects
only the inept adherents and hinder the development of all real sources of life. The prose
has thundered into sovereign (sic) values ​​have fallen into the hands of the wicked. Today, in general,
wealth is synonymous with moral void of selfishness and perfect mediocrity; at most elegant
cunning means, in short, a quality criminal offense. "

If so ugly features are accurate, if so, the present society, or not
going on the road progress, or have fallen, with the car we drive,
in a gully or rut of all devils.

I do not see, then, are about the advent and success of Superman, since, according to Mr. Gener,
are a bunch of idiots, criminals and miscreants who triumph, perch and govern all, while the
supermen out there scattered, with very little money, no power and no influence, and perhaps
making observations and experiences and writing big books that almost nobody reads. And how
anyone reading them when society cries Today, according to Mr. Gener,
the worst of slavery under the yoke of these guys infamous ordinary
and vulgar these rich men and rogues, which tells us, send us and
oppress us?

If by virtue of evolution have to leave this horrible state, the Aurora superhuman, instead
of being close, is lejísima; take millions of years to dawn. Now I understand I read some time
has sociology book that made me a deep impression and I have not never forgotten: "Humanity, said
the aforementioned book, taken as a collective life, not yet born. "Seeking after when born, and
after extensive research and calculations subtle, forecast to be born within fourteen thousand
five hundred years on, more or less. And if the collective humanity goes so reluctant to be born,
I fear that the victorious superman do double time in gestation, and only comes forth, not within
one hundred forty centuries, but within three hundred, then if our planet has not had a bad
encounter or stumble in the amplitude of the ether through which turns around and goes waltzing,
or you do not need water because which is combined with solids, or if not cool and inner fire goes
out, or if, by dint of rolling, no holes and eventually take the form of donut or ring, like Saturn.

Now
we dispose of the above objections, detracting from the arguments that it Mr. Gener supplied against
rapid progress against the conviction that we are close the target.

And in this case, cavilo me and I am inclined to believe that the happy outcome of progressive
movement, rather than the appearance of Superman, will the search and placement of the human
race, equality abhorred by Mr. Gener, if not impossible, the difficulty more every day that no one
stand out and excel.

As there will be no cruel and intolerant tyrants, no one can win the crown of martyrdom. Each one
can preach and disseminate the doctrine which he pleases, at ease and safely. The deletion of
the long and painful punishments prevent someone is distinguished by its sturdy energy to endure
them: the regulators and the Princes Constants may not reappear. Extinct poverty, charity, the generous
donation and the most beautiful works of mercy will not to be exercised and forget or be stunted
in the soul. If peace is made perpetual and wars are over, farewell military virtues, great
captains and valiant heroes. Discovered and figured out what remains to be discovered and to
find out, all will be wise and no Pilgrim invention enhance a mortal with an inch of height
above other mortals. Exhausted and hands and all matters epic, lyric and dramatic, tested all feelings,
and used to express the most natural, simple and proper workmanship style, prose writers and poets
will have to repeat what was said, and be kidnappers or imitators, exposing with a desire to be
original, the biggest fall in extravagance and absurdities: to be decadent, deliquescent, Impressionists,
Symbolists and naturalists. With own sculptors will occur when seeking to overcome by new trails
Phidias and Praxiteles. And the artists, if it aspires to be among his contemporary princes and
kings of his art, as it were in another age Rafael, Velazquez and Rembrandt, would fall into
mannerisms more disparate. In short: born equal progress and dissemination of culture harass
us all, and he who does not obey it, but to rise and shine on his
fellow will go crazy and will do about the sad hallmark of his madness.

For

this or for worse, this term progress is still very remote and may not arrive ever. We know
that full equality is impossible.
 Yet not
quite, for even as he gazed the onrushing line of the triumphant Stockaders sagged backward
at the centre, and the Doomsman yell broke out. What was it? What had happened?

Emerging from the portal of the White Tower came half a dozen bearers carrying between them
a chair in which sat a man--an old man with a shock of snow-white hair covering his massive
head. And those shoulders needed no identification from the familiar wolf-skin that lay across
them. This could be none other than Dom Gillian, Chief and Overlord of the Doomsmen, Father
of the Gray People. 

Long Preamble is the former, but not too well, to state here that although I have not I read
Death and the Devil and Heresies, D. Gener Pompey has been careless and not regional ill-will,
and now, after reading the new book by the same author entitled Friends and Teachers, found that
its author is worthy of careful consideration and special applause. And even in number and short, having
no place or time for more, I will give here some news of the book, trying to enhance the high
ingenious thinker clothing, elegant and easy writer and learned and discreet person, who has shown
the author to compose.

To enjoy an author need not agree with him on the opinions and beliefs, let less be persuaded
by their reasoning. Often the opposite often happens, and so happens to me with the book of
D. Pompey Gener. I have much to applaud in this book, and very says little that convinces me,
though I applaud the enthusiasm, knowledge and ingenuity with which he says. By doing take given
my applause, and allow me to contradict some of the assertions I Mr. Gener, considering them completely
wrong, or that run into problems and comment on which half are in
compliance with the true and just.

Friends and Teachers is a collection of portraits and portraits of all French writers, least
one, Joaquín María Bartrina. Just be the eulogy that makes this unique Gener wit if not to enhance
it with odious comparisons, calling for wordy, confused and diffuse to other poets of Spain,
and assuming that fame should have to live in Madrid, and no doubt part of a society of mutual
praise. I can not agree with Mr. Gener in Spain is no stepmother and mother of his best sons,
whose merit is not confesses until foreigners recognize and proclaim him, and that, in contrast,
puts the clouds of mediocrity and even intriguing annulments. Were not and are nullity or mediocrity,
Quintana, Gallego, Espronceda, Zorrilla, Hartzenbusch, García Gutiérrez, Tamayo, Querol, Núñez Maple,
Ferrari and not a few others, still alive, and not owe their reputation, or to praise Madrid's
newspapers, or the discovery and the statement they have made their
Foreign critics assert.

Mr. Gener Create Bartrina not worth more on the concept that it is formed after read his visage,
that the concept Bartrina that had formed before that reading. Such clearer once the first
concept. I, for one, I can not reconcile that resembles Bartrina while the simple, elegant,
honest, classic and afectadísimo Leopardi, false Baudelaire and extravagant. In the only predicament
can enter both the three poets, is in being the three unbelievers, sickly, sad and desperate. In
all others differ greatly. And if we speak frankly and Bartrina Baudelaire remain well under the
infinite distance of Leopardi, one of the most admirable lyric poets
that have occurred in Europe in this century, so glorious and fruitful
in this kind of poetry.

The other portraits, as I stopped and pointed, are all French writers, and I can not but rejoice that
judicious criticism is used in them and make them available in Spain. I also welcome the passionate
affection and generosity with which Mr. Gener heaped with praise. I agree and have agreed
that France has always pleasant and rich literature, and that is fruitful and happy mother
of original and elegant writers, whose works are perhaps the most read and celebrated in foreign
countries, through which thought and language and to the feelings of the French imposed a predominance
among other peoples. But this hegemony of France in letters and arts, not only provides France
with foreigners fundadísimo credit, but dazzling prestige, which solicits and encourages more
admiration blind, the more hyperbolic praise and very often the awkward imitation of the worst,
fashion originating in what is written and what we think, as there are in what you wear and
ware houses. Guard against this matter and be warned. Hence perhaps Mr. Gener characters portrayed
in his book are priced at their true worth even if we lower one-third
of the praise lavished Mr. Gener them.

The men faced each other steadily for perhaps a minute. Then Oxenford rapped his antagonist
smartly across the knuckles and sprang back out of reach. The colossus, with a growl, swung
his mace to right and left, striking at random, for Oxenford had cunningly contrived to turn
Dom Gillian so that the light was at his back. Quinton Edge must have noticed the ruse, for
he beckoned to an attendant and ordered that every available torch and cresset should be placed
about the arena. But the affair was over long before the command could be obeyed.

Again the giant struck out, and this time so strongly that he came near to losing his balance.
Oxenford, rushing in, discharged a quick half-arm blow on the Doomsman's right wrist, and the
mace dropped from the suddenly paralyzed grip. Confused and terror-stricken, Dom Gillian dropped
on all-fours, groping about in the darkness for the weapon that had rolled away and out of
immediate reach. Oxenford, drawing his knife, struck downward, aiming for the angle of neck
and collar-bone. But in his eagerness he overshot the mark, the blade making only a trifling
flesh wound, and the next instant Dom Gillian had him in his clutch. The two stood up together.

It seemed a long time, hours indeed, that Dom Gillian waited for his injured wrist to recover
its strength, holding Oxenford easily in his left hand and shaking the other incessantly to
restore the interrupted circulation. Even when at last satisfied that the wrist could be trusted
to do its duty, he did not appear to be in any hurry; he seemed to be meditating upon the most
effective use to which he could apply the advantage that he had gained. Progress is undefined. No one discerns the goal or the term:

    

Arcana et volvens fatorum Amplius movebo.

Achieving super-man, evolution and selection will emerge from her womb archisuper-man which can
treat the super man as merciless as this man has been treated.

And so without showing to the changes and promotions, per omnia secula seculorum.

Pray we like or dislike us, now we have an account, now we do not have an account, if the super-man
come, come no matter who weighs. Neither conservatives nor may prevent retrograde. About Nietzsche
and Gener this point are in perfect harmony. Let's see what we disagree Gener and what, in my
opinion, with great view, Nietzsche amendment to the flat. Let something first about the philosopher,
the most original and most fitting that, as sure Gener has flourished in the second half of the
nineteenth century. Nation was Polish, German citizen and professor Classical Philology, we do not
care to know at which university or institute. War came between Germany and France, which
France was defeated. Nietzsche And then, in compliance laws, was forced to take up arms and go to
war. Before those days Nietzsche was hardly distinguished, but being in the siege of Paris,
a town of Granada struck and knocked down his horse, and Nietzsche himself fell to the ground
bloodied and with a deep concussion. Nietzsche's disciples claim that this drop was similar teacher
in effect to which St. Paul had on the road to Damascus.

The truth is that the recovered Fall, Nietzsche became another man appeared prophet, apostle
and, finally, dude.

I remember I have not read but have heard of, in the classroom where I studied Seminar Philosophy,
without finding out later on what authority, documents or testimony is supported history, the most
learned Cornelius a Lapide in his childhood was a creature almost silly or insignificant at least, but
one day walking around his place, had the misfortune or fortunate to meet in the middle of two
games or bands of boys, who were stoning, and received a huge stone head. This upset him and
beat him so happily changed the brain, which are not well recovered from his grave and dangerous
wound, became one of the most Acute and sublime Jesuit scholars were in the seventeenth century
wrote luminous comments the Pentateuch, and other works are no less useful than ten or twelve
volumes together in folio; and, finally, died in Rome in the odor of sanctity. Nietzsche certainly
something had to happen similar. "Opinion of some German physiologists, Gener said that the concussion
he received the fall off the horse in front of the capital of the civilized world was, as the
fall of San Pablo on the road to Damascus, the source of his inspiration
and genius.

Be this as you want, the fact is that particular philosophical vision of the universe is developed
only after at this time. "

If Nietzsche had been Polish pure, completely Aryan, his philosophical view of the Universe
adjust your system exactly to Mr. Gener, but Mr. Gener suspected in body or blood of Nietzsche was
not a little of Mongol or Tartar, perhaps produced the mixture when they invaded the East of
Europe the hordes of Genghis Khan or Timur other Turanian fierce
conquerors. The truth is that in Nietzsche there are two elements
or factors of his genius, from both of atavism: an Aryan, and Gener
accepts all of this product factor, another Turanian or Mongolian
moving Nietzsche to be despotic, cruel and heartless. What brand
new fine art and profound is that it has not been discovered until the late nineteenth century
in France, Sweden or Russia? "So that Bourget, Ibsen and Tolstoy used more art exquisite and
profound than the authors of Don Quixote and La Celestina?

       *       *       *       *       *

Piers Minor, fighting in the press at the gate as became his stout breed, chanced to rescue
a boy from being crushed to death. The lad had been crowded up against a projecting angle and
was quite breathless when the Stockader, arching his back against the pressure, broke the jam
by sheer strength and pulled the stripling out of his dangerous position. But what a fine color
came back into the white cheeks as the twain recognized each other!

"You!" said Nanna, and at that moment she would have given all she possessed in the world for
just a skirt.

"You!" re-echoed Piers Minor, and immediately a horrible dumbness fell upon him.

The thunder of the captains and the shouting filled their ears, but they heard not, the red
light of battle danced before their eyes, but they saw not. Some miracle swept them clear of
the struggle, and guided them to the shelter afforded by a half-completed barricade of ox-carts. Nothing is left to investigate, clarify, tell and discuss bullfights, since
they started in Spain, perhaps before the foundation of Cadiz and the coming of Hercules the
Phoenicians, who built his columns, I wonder if in Calpe, or Avila or on both hills.

No historical figure who has ever fought for whom we do not speak the count. Until Francisco Pizarro,
conqueror of Peru, and even the most glorious Emperor Charles V, are bullfighters.

The real parties in which more or less splendor bulls have struggled to solemnize some event
pomp and increase public rejoicing, are mentioned in the book of Mr. Count with conscientiousness
and reliable documentary evidence, from which there was in the year , 1144 in León to celebrate
the marriage of Doña Urraca, daughter of King Alfonso VII, until
that was in Seville in 1877 to give away the king D. Alfonso XII.

Demonstrated quite clearly leaves the count that the national spectacle in Spain is the bullfighting.
It also demonstrates with grace, discretion and abundant copy reasons that such runs are not fierce,
or immoral, deserving of censure or bitter few subjects not authorized and several writers
of note have launched against them in times different. Those who have been identified and most
extreme in this century by their disapproval the bulls have been the illustrious Don Gaspar Melchor
de Jovellanos and the ingenious poet and marine Don José Vargas Ponce,
and recently D. Luis Vidart and the Marquis de San Carlos.

Against all Count them bravely battle of Navas, and succeeds, in my opinion, complete victory.

In
any case, so supporters and enemies of bullfighting, they can not less than delighted and instructed
to read the book here realize. All person of good taste and keen to know, if not convinced by
reading this book, have fun insurance and acquire a multitude of curious and strange news, without
ever feeling tired or boredom. This is the highest praise we can give and give with sincerity
and satisfaction the brand new work of the Count of Las Navas, widely known and celebrated as the
literary republic, and other works of scholarship as for his stories
and novels.

Another praise, however, the book also deserves the count, I consign here although I do not,
as the enviable quality that I praise the book serves as a basis
for as I say, and even to much I would say that I remain silent, fearful
of straining readers.

The book of the Count of Las Navas is very suggestive. Who, after having read or read, do not feel
invincible desire to make examination of conscience on the point
capital the book is to declare openly whether conviction or welcomes
the bullfights and to present arguments that support their disapproval
or praise?

Leaving away by the above I wish, I will enter my opinion here, although
no I ask for, intervening in the dispute, with independent discretion
and without prior inclination from anywhere.

"Bullfighting sin grievously against philanthropy or tell yourself against the affection and respect
that every human being should inspire us? This is the first question. The answer is clear, but there
can be no distinction. No distinction is no doubt that a party should be condemned in which
risk their lives for fun a few our neighbors. But when you consider
there are a multitude of other parties in the lives of our fellows
are exposed further, we can not be considered innocent, or if you
want some nocentes bullfighting.

A quarter of a mile away from the citadel they were halted by the sound of a heavy explosion.
Piers Minor spoke his astonishment frankly.

"Thunder on a cool night in May! Who ever heard of such a thing?" 

II

What do you have of bullfights the animal protection society,
society exists today in every civilized country?

The view that security must be very bad; But is it logical reasoning for the decision?


Half a dozen blocks away to the westward they could see flames shooting from the windows of
a warehouse. 

It is necessary to display the super-man. Every obstacle that hampers their emergence must be
destroyed. No pity, no pity. Such sentiments are pure and vile weakness unworthy of the great man,
the superman in the making. Volatile fattened
then I was a happy and I loved to eat, but the pre-show, Because of the fat, I grieved enough.
Still thinking of that, ground exclaiming the poet

    Labitur gutta ex oculis meis quoque nunc.

"The Shining One," she whispered, and clung to his arm. "See how his tongues of fire lick up
the dust of Doom.