Again were the maiden's eyes fixed searchingly upon the speaker, and again, conflicting with
the searching character of his own glance, were they withdrawn, under the direction of a high
sense of modest dignity. She had made the effort at recognition--that was evident even to him--and
had made it in vain.

"Entirely forgotten--well! better that than to have been remembered as the thing I was. Would
it were possible to be equally forgotten by the rest--but this, too, is vain and childish.
She must be taught to remember me."

Thus muttered the stranger to himself; assuming, however, an increased decision of manner at
the conclusion, he approached her, and tearing from his cheeks the huge whiskers that had half-obscured
them, he spoke in hurried accents:--

"Look on me now, Miss Colleton--look on me now, and while you gaze upon features once sufficiently
well known to your glance, let your memory but retrace the few years when it was your fortune,
and my fate, to spend a few months in Gwinnett county. Do you remember the time--do you remember
that bold, ambitious man, who, at that time, was the claimant for a public honor--who was distinguished
by you in a dance, at the ball given on that occasion--who, maddened by wine, and a fierce
passion which preyed upon him then, like a consuming fire, addressed you, though a mere child,
and sought you for his bride, who--but I see you remember all!"

"And are you then Creighton--Mr. Edward Creighton--and so changed!" And she looked upon him
with an expression of simple wonder.

"Ay, that was the name once-but I have another now. Would you know me better--I am Guy Rivers,
where the name of Creighton must not again be spoken. It is the name of a felon--of one under
doom of outlawry--whom all men are privileged to slay. I have been hunted from society--I can
no longer herd with my fellows--I am without kin, and am almost without kind. Yet, base and
black with crime--doomed by mankind--banished all human abodes--the slave of fierce passions--the
leagued with foul associates, I dared, in your girlhood, to love you; and, more daring still,
I dare to love you now. Fear not, lady--you are Edith Colleton to me; and worthless, and vile,
and reckless, though I have become, for you I can hold no thought which would behold you other
than you are--a creature for worship rather than for love. As such I would have you still;
and for this purpose do I seek you now. I know your feeling for this young man--I saw it then,
when you repulsed me. I saw that you loved each other, though neither of you were conscious
of the truth. You love him now--you would not have him perish--I know well how you regard him,
and I come, knowing this, to make hard conditions with you for his life."

"Keep me no longer in suspense--speak out, Mr. Creighton"--she cried, gaspingly.

"Rivers--Rivers--I would not hear the other--it was by that name I was driven from my fellows."

"Mr. Rivers, say what can be done--what am I to do--money--thanks, all that we can give shall
be yours, so that you save him from this fate."

"And who would speak thus for me? What fair pleader, fearless of man's opinion--that blights
or blesses, without reference to right or merit--would so far speak for me!"

"Many--many, Mr. Rivers--I hope there are many. Heaven knows, though I may have rejected in
my younger days, your attentions, I know not many for whom I would more willingly plead and
pray than yourself. I do remember now your talents and high reputation, and deeply do I regret
the unhappy fortune which has denied them their fulfilment."

"Ah, Edith Colleton, these words would have saved me once--now they are nothing, in recompense
for the hopes which are for ever gone. Your thoughts are gentle, and may sooth all spirits
but my own. But sounds that lull others, lull me no longer. It is not the music of a rich dream,
or of a pleasant fancy, which may beguile me into pleasure. I am dead--dead as the cold rock--to
their influence. The storm which blighted me has seared, and ate into the very core. I am like
the tree through which the worm has travelled--it still stands, and there is foliage upon it,
but the heart is eaten out and gone. Your words touch me no longer as they did--I need something
more than words and mere flatteries--flatteries so sweet even as those which come from your
lips--are no longer powerful to bind me to your service. I can save the youth--I will save
him, though I hate him; but the conditions are fatal to your love for him."

There was much in this speech to offend and annoy the hearer; but she steeled herself to listen,
and it cost her some effort to reply.

"I can listen--I can hear all that you may say having reference to him. I know not what you
may intend; I know not what you may demand for your service. But name your condition. All in
honor--all that a maiden may grant and be true to herself, all--all, for his life and safety."

"Still, I fear, Miss Colleton--your love for him is not sufficiently lavish to enable your
liberality to keep pace with the extravagance of my demand--"

"Hold, sir--on this particular there is no need of further speech. Whatever may be the extent
of my regard for Ralph, it is enough that I am willing to do much, to sacrifice much--in return
for his rescue from this dreadful fate. Speak, therefore, your demand--spare no word--delay
me, I pray, no longer."

"Hear me, then. As Creighton, I loved you years ago--as Guy Rivers I love you still. The life
of Ralph Colleton is forfeit--for ever forfeit--and a few days only interpose between him and
eternity. I alone can save him--I can give him freedom; and, in doing so, I shall risk much,
and sacrifice not a little. I am ready for this risk--I am prepared for every sacrifice--I
will save him at all hazards from his doom, upon one condition!"

"Speak! speak!"

"That you be mine--that you fly with me--that in the wild regions of the west, where I will
build you a cottage and worship you as my own forest divinity, you take up your abode with
me, and be my wife. My wife!--all forms shall be complied with, and every ceremony which society
may call for. Nay, shrink not back thus--" seeing her recoil in horror and scorn at the suggestion--"beware
how you defy me--think, that I have his life in my hands--think, that I can speak his doom
or his safety--think, before you reply!"

"There is no time necessary for thought, sir--none--none. It can not be. I can not comply with
the conditions which you propose. I would die first."

"And he will die too. Be not hasty, Miss Colleton--remember--it is not merely your death but
his--his death upon the gallows--"

"Spare me! spare me!"

"The halter--the crowd--the distorted limb--the racked frame--"

"Horrible--horrible!"

"Would you see this--know this, and reflect upon the shame, the mental agony, far greater than
all, of such a death to him?"

With a strong effort, she recovered her composure, though but an instant before almost convulsed--

"Have you no other terms, Mr. Rivers?"

"None--none. Accept them, and he lives--I will free him, as I promise. Refuse them--deny me,
and he must die, and nothing may save him then."

"Then he must die, sir!--we must both die--before we choose such terms. Sir, let me call my
father. Our conference must end here. You have chosen a cruel office, but I can bear its infliction.
You have tantalized a weak heart with hope, only to make it despair the more. But I am now
strong, sir--stronger than ever--and we speak no more on this subject."

"Yet pause--to relent even to-morrow may be too late. To-night you must determine, or never."

"I have already determined. It is impossible that I can determine otherwise. No more, sir!"

