When I awoke in the morning my heart sank at the tiny, creeping patter of fine snow on the
silk tent. Snow was one thing I greatly dreaded, for there was not a pair of snow-shoes amongst
us! A little snow would not do much harm, but if once snow began to fall we might have a foot
or two before it ceased, and then we should be in bad case. It stopped before noon, but the
half-inch that fell made the sled drag much heavier. The actual force to be exerted was not
the most laborious feature of pulling that sled; it was the jerk, jerk, jerk on the shoulders.
A dog's four legs give him much smoother traction than a man's two legs give, just as a four-cylinder
engine will turn a propeller with much less vibration than a two-cylinder engine. Every step
forward gave an impulse that spent itself before the next impulse was given, and the result
was that the shoulders grew sore.

We came that morning to the longest and roughest ice-jam we had so far encountered. It was
as though a thousand bulls had been turned loose in a mammoth plate-glass warehouse. Jagged
slabs of ice upended everywhere in the most riotous confusion, and it was impossible to pick
any way amongst them, so a man had to go ahead and hew a path. It was while thus engaged that
the doctor fell and injured his knee so severely on a sharp ice point that he hobbled in pain
the rest of the trip. This was a very serious matter to us, for, though he insisted on still
taking his trick at the traces, his effectiveness as a motive power was much diminished; and
we had no sooner thus hewed and smashed our way through that jam than we had to hew and smash
it across to the other side again in our search for passage.

[Sidenote: "BY THE BACK OF THE FACE"]

Then we came to a place where, in order to cut off a long sweeping curve of the river with
open water and bad shore ice, we went through a dry slough and had to drag those iron runners
over gravel and stones, where sometimes it was all the three of us could do to move the sled
a few feet at a time. Yet all along the banks were willows, and if we had only known then what
we know now we would have cut down and split some saplings and bound them over the iron, and
so have saved three fourths of that labour.

[Sidenote: BEAR MEAT AND BEANS]

So the day's run was short, though the most exhausting yet, and we were all thoroughly tired
out when we pitched the tent. I have note of a great supper of bear meat and beans, the meat
the spoil of our friend the prospector's gun. It is one of the compensations of human nature
that the satisfaction of appetite increases in pleasure in proportion to the bodily labour
that is done. With food abundant and at choice, I do not like bear meat and will not eat beans.
Yet my diary bears special note of the delicious meal they furnished on this occasion. Put
any philosopher in the traces, or set him ahead of the dog team on show-shoes, breaking trail
all day, and towards evening it is odds that his mind is not occupied with deep speculations
about the infinite and the absolute, but rather with the question of what he will have for
supper. Particularly should the grub be a little short, should fresh meat give out, or, above
all, should sugar be "shy," it is astonishing how one's mind runs on eating and what elaborate
imaginary repasts one partakes of. Yet of all food that a man ever eats there is none that
is so relished and gives such clear gustatory pleasure as the plain, rough fare of the camp--provided
it be well cooked. Greatly as we were in need of sleep, we got little, for the doctor's knee
pained him all night and poor Arthur developed a raging toothache that did not yield until
carbolic acid had been thrice applied.

Soon after we started the next day, the river narrowed and swept round a series of mountain
bluffs and we began to have the gloomiest expectations of trouble. It seemed certain that ice
would fail us for passage, and we would have to pack our sled and its load by slow relays over
the mountain. But to our delight we passed between the bluffs on good, firm, smooth ice, and
it was not until we emerged on the flat beyond that our difficulty began. So it is again and
again on the trail. Almost always it is the unexpected that happens; almost always it is something
quite different from what our apprehensions have dwelt upon that arises to hinder and distress
us. A tongue of level land that struck far out into the water, a cut mud bank with a current
so swift that no ice at all had formed along it, interposed an obstacle that it took hours
to circumvent. We had to leave the sled and cut a trail through the brush for half a mile along
this peninsula in order to reach a stretch of the river where the ice was resumed, and the
little snow that had fallen being quite insufficient to give the sled good passage, we had
an exceedingly arduous job in getting it across.

A mile or two of good going brought us in view of the smoke of a human habitation. What a blessed
sight often and often this waving column of blue smoke in the distance is! Sometimes it means
life itself to the Alaskan musher, and it always means warmth, shelter, food, companionship,
assistance; all that one human being can bring to another. "The bright and the balmy effulgence
of morn" never "breaks on the traveller faint and astray" with half the rejoicing that comes
with the first sight of mere smoke. "I believe I see smoke," cried Arthur, with the quick vision
of the native. "Where? Where?" we eagerly inquired, and the doctor left the handle-bars and
limped forward to the boy ahead with the axe. "Away yonder on that bank," pointed Arthur. "I
see it! I see it!" the doctor shouted; "we're coming to a house, we're coming to people!" The
trip was a severe apprenticeship to Alaskan life for a man straight from the New York hospitals,
although before the accident to his knee I had declared that if only they could be trained
to live on dry fish I thought a team of young doctors would haul a sled very well. He was delighted
at coming upon the first inhabited house we had seen since we helped Nelson to build his little
cabin--and that was only the second inhabited house in three hundred miles.

[Sidenote: BREAKING THROUGH]

But, perhaps because we grew less cautious in our excitement, almost immediately after we had
spied the smoke of the cabin we got into one of the worst messes of the whole trip. Arthur
had pushed ahead and we had followed with a spurt, and almost at the same time all three of
us became aware that we were on dangerous ice. Arthur cried, "The ice is breaking; go back!"
just as we began to feel it swaying under our feet. I shouted to the doctor, "Go on to the
bank quick!" and pushed with all my might, and we managed to make a few yards more towards
shallow water, over ice that bent and cracked at every step, before it gave way and let down
the sled and the men into two feet of water. Arthur had run safely over the breaking ice and
had gained the bank, and as I write, in my mind's eye I can see the doctor, who had been duly
instructed in the elementary lessons of the trail, standing in the water and calling to Arthur:
"Make a fire quick; make a fire. I'm all wet!"

But it was not necessary to make a fire, for the thermometer was no lower than 10° or 15° above
zero, and the chief trouble was not the wetting of our legs but the wetting of the contents
of the sled. Along the bank was stronger ice, and we managed, though not without much difficulty,
to get the sled upon it and to make our way to the Indian cabin.

As soon as old "Atler" (I have never been quite sure of what white man's name that is a corruption)
knew who we were, his hospitality, which had been ready enough at first sight, became most
cordial and expansive. While we pulled off our wet clothing his wife hung it up to dry and
had the kettle on and some tea making, and he and Arthur got out our wet bedding and festooned
it about the cabin. Most fortunately the things that would have suffered most from water did
not get wet. So there we lay all the afternoon, having made no more than six miles, and there
we lay all the next day, which was Sunday.

There was a sort of awful interest that centred upon one member of this family, a boy of seven
or eight years. The previous spring he had killed his uncle by the accidental discharge of
a .22 rifle, shooting him through the heart. The gun had been brought in loaded and cocked
and had been set in a corner of the cabin, and the child, playing with it, had pulled the trigger.
The carelessness of Indians with firearms is the frequent cause of terrible accidents like
this. The child was still too young to realise what he had done, but one fancies that later
it will throw a gloom on his life.

To my great relief and satisfaction I was able to arrange here for a young Indian man to accompany
us with his one dog. He was a native of those parts and knew every bend and turn of the river.
We were, indeed, in great need of help. The doctor's knee grew worse rather than better, and
Arthur was suffering the return of an old rheumatism in his leg. I was the only sound member
of the party, and my shoulders were galled by the rope and my feet tender and sore from continual
wearing of the crampons. We were now not quite half-way--some sixty miles lay behind us and
sixty-five before--and we had been travelling four days.

[Sidenote: "ONE-EYED WILLIAM"]

Divine service being done on Sunday morning, the whole of it well interpreted by Arthur to
the great satisfaction of the Indians, he and "One-Eyed William," our recruit, started out
to survey to-morrow's route. In this reconnaissance William broke through some slush ice at
the greatest depth of the river in seeking a safe place to cross, and, had Arthur not been
with him, would almost certainly have drowned, for the current was very swift and the man,
like most Indians, unable to swim a stroke;--though, indeed, swimming is of little avail for
escape out of such predicament and is a poor dependence in these icy waters winter or summer.
More beans boiled and a batch of biscuits baked against our departure, and evening prayer said
and interpreted, we were ready for bed again.

Our visit was a great delight to old Atler. An inflamed eye was much relieved by the doctor's
ministrations, and the natural piety which he shares with most Indians was gratified at the
opportunity of worship and instruction. A good old man, according to his lights, I take Atler
to be, well known for benevolence of disposition and particularly priding himself on being
a friend of the white man. He told us of one unworthy representative of that race he had helped
a year ago. The man had come out of the Hogatzitna (Hog River) country, entirely out of food,
himself and a couple of dogs nigh to starvation, and Atler had taken care of him for several
days while he recuperated and had given him grub and dog fish enough to get him to Bettles,
one hundred and thirty miles away, where he could purchase supplies. The old Indian had robbed
his own family's little winter stock of "white-man's grub" that this stranger might be provided,
and had never heard a word from him since, though he had promised to make return when he reached
Bettles.

Unfortunately Alaska's white population is sprinkled with men like this, men without heart
and without conscience, and it is precisely such rascals who are loudest in their contemptuous
talk of the Indians. It is such men who chop down the woodwork of cabins rather than be troubled
to take the axe into the forest a few rods away, who depart in the morning without making kindling
and shavings, careless how other travellers may fare so themselves be warm without labour;
who make "easy money" in the summer-time by dropping down the Yukon with a boat-load of "rot-gut"
whisky, leaving drunkenness and riot at every village they pass; who beget children of the
native women and regard them no more than a dog does his pups, indifferent that their own flesh
and blood go cold and hungry. They are the curse and disgrace of Alaska, and they often go
long time insolent and unwhipped because our poor lame law is not nimble enough to overtake
them; "to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness for ever," one's indignation is sometimes
disposed to thunder savagely with Saint Jude; and indeed there needs a future punishment to
redress the balance in this country.

[Sidenote: FIDO]

At break of day our reinforced company was off, Arthur and "One-Eyed William" going ahead to
sound the ice and pick the way, the dog "Fido" (such a name for a Siwash dog!) and myself in
the traces, the doctor at the handle-bars. The rest had benefited the doctor's knee, but walking
was still painful and he needed the support of the handle-bars all day. What a great difference
that one strong, willing little dog made! His steady pulling kept the sled in motion and relieved
one's shoulders of the galling jerk of the rope at every step. The going was "not too bad,"
as they say here, all day, though it carried one rather severe disappointment. William had
told us of a portage he thought we could take that would cut off eight or nine miles of the
river; but when we reached it the snow upon it proved insufficient to afford a passage, for
it was a rough niggerhead flat, and we had to swing around the outer edges of the great curves
the river makes, where alone was ice, with trouble and danger at every crossing.

The decision as to whether we should halt or go forward, as to whether ice was safe or unsafe,
as to whether we should cross the river or stay where we were--every decision that concerned
the secure advance of the party--I put wholly upon William, and would not permit myself or
any other to question his judgment or to argue it with him. There was no sense in half-measures;
this young man knew the river as none of us did, knew ice as none of us did, and we must put
ourselves entirely in his hands. The debate that had become usual at every doubtful course
arose at the portage just referred to, but it was at once suppressed by the announcement that
hereafter no one could have the floor but William, and that when he had spoken the matter was
settled. Day by day I think we all came to a keener realisation of how very dangerous a journey
we were making; it lay heavily on my mind that I had brought these two young men--whether by
mishap or mismanagement--into real peril of their lives. Again and again I blamed myself for
the delays that had deferred our start up the Koyukuk, again and again I wished that we had
waited longer before leaving the Pelican's winter quarters. I had even contemplated a week's
stay at Atler's, to give the river a chance to get into better shape, but unless there came
a very much sharper spell than we had had so far a week would not make much difference, and
our grub began to run short and Atler was none too well supplied. So it seemed best to push on.

The next day was full of toil and difficulty. There was no good ice to make fine time over
that day. Starting in the grey dawn, for mile after mile we had to haul the sled over crumbly
shell-ice that broke through to gravel; and when the shell-ice was done we came to a new bend
where a rapid current washed a steep mud bank. There was just a little shelf of ice, but the
brush overhung it so that the passage of the sled was not possible. William and Arthur started
with the axes to clear away the brush, but it seemed to me foolish to do that unless the ledge
held out and led somewhere, for the turn of the bank threw it out of sight. So they went forward
cautiously along that ledge to the end--and an end they found, sure enough, so that had we
followed the axemen with the sled we should have had to creep all the way back again. There
was nothing for it but to cut another land trail on a bench that we could reach where the sled
was stopped but that could not be reached at all farther on. A long and slow and laborious
job it was, that took most of the morning, to cut that trail and then get the load over it
to ice again.

By noon we were opposite the Red Mountain, one of the well-known Koyukuk landmarks, and on
the site of an old Indian fishing camp. William and Arthur had made a great fire when we came
up, and we heated some beans and made some tea and ate lunch. A mile farther on was the cabin
of a white man, and we paid him a brief visit and got a little tea from him, for ours was nearly
gone. It did me good to hear him sing the praises of Deaconess Carter, the trained nurse at
the mission. She had taken him in, crippled with rheumatism, and had cured him. Already the
new mission was proving a boon to whites as well as natives. We made no more than four or five
miles farther when, coming to spruce with no more in sight for a long distance, we pitched
the tent, all very tired.

That night the thermometer went to 5° below zero, the coldest weather of the season so far.
As a consequence the next day we had a new and very disagreeable trouble. The cold weather,
by increasing the amount of running ice in the still open stretches, had brought about a jam
that had raised the level of the water and caused an overflow of the ice--a very common phenomenon
of a closing river. We picked our way wet-foot much of the day, and towards evening came to
a complete impasse in the middle of the river, with open water in front and on one hand, and
new thin ice on the other. So we had to turn round and go back again a long way, the mid-river
being the only traversable place, until, when it seemed that we should have to go round another
bend to reach a crossing, Arthur proposed that he and William, who wore mukluks, should carry
the doctor and me, who wore moccasins across the overflow, and then rush the sled across; and
this we did, wetting its contents somewhat, however. We camped immediately, for we had landed
on impassable gravel.

[Sidenote: THE RED MOUNTAIN]

That night the thermometer went to 20° below zero, and we took good hope that the cold, which
began to approach the real cold of winter, would put an end to overflow; but, on the contrary,
it only aggravated the trouble. For the first mile or two there was nothing for it but to go
through it, and at 20° below it is a miserable business to be wading in moccasins even for
an hour. We had rearranged our load so that it stood up somewhat higher, but we could not avoid
wetting the things on the bottom of the sled, and the ice formed about it very inconveniently.
Moreover, the little dog, who had a great dislike to wetting his feet, began to give us a good
deal of trouble, and at one time nothing but the admirable presence of mind and prompt action
of William saved us from losing our whole load. We had reached a strip of new, dry ice formed
the night before, with black, rushing water on the left, towards which the slippery surface
sloped. Presently as we advanced we began to encounter a little overflow water, coming from
the bank on the right, seeping up between the ice and the bank; and that dog, to avoid wetting
his feet in the overflow, deliberately turned towards the open water and set the sled sliding
in the same direction. Without the crampons, which we had not used for the past few days, it
was impossible to hold the sled against the dog's traction, and in another moment we should
have lost everything, for the dog paid no heed to our voices, when William with a blow of his
axe cut the rope by which the dog pulled, and, grasping the sled and throwing himself full
length on the ice, managed to stop it on the very brink of the water. It was a close shave,
but once more we were safe; and the doctor, in the exuberance of his gratitude, said that night:
"If William wants a glass eye I'll send to New York to get him one." But when William learned
that the glass eye was a mere matter of looks and would in no wise improve his vision, he lost
interest in it. Looks do not count for much amongst the Koyukuk Indians.

That night was a long way off yet, however; we had other risks to run, other labours. Here
were two islands in the river, and the current, running like a mill-race and burdened with
ice cakes, swept around the shore of one of them leaving the passage between them quite dry.
There was no shore ice at all where the channel was, and it was so ugly-looking a reach that
had there been any there I am sure we should not have ventured it. There was nothing for it
but to drag the sled half a mile over the gravel, and we did it, the most heart-breaking labour
of the whole trip. It took us exactly an hour to make that half mile. William did not know
the trick of the split willows either, so we all four of us sweated for our ignorance. Shortly
after, our guide pointed out the spot where poor Ericson's frozen body was found, two years
and eight months before.

[Sidenote: A NARROW ESCAPE]

[Sidenote: RUBBER ICE]

Near the Kornuchaket (or the mouth of Old Man Creek), where the Koyukuk receives a considerable
tributary, we approached the most dangerous travelling we had had yet. The river here is swift
and deep, and there are several islands set in it. Most of its surface was frozen, but the
ice was very thin. William stopped the procession before we reached the bad stretch and went
hastily over a part of it. Under his single weight we could see the ice-sheet undulating. It
had been our rule that ice was not safe unless it took three blows of the axe to bring water,
but this ice gave water at a blow. When William returned he made quite an harangue, which Arthur
interpreted. He thought we could make it past the mouth of the creek, and if we could we should
find good going to Moses' Village. But we must go just as fast as we could travel; we must
not let the sled stop an instant. The ice would bend and crack; but he thought if we went quickly
we could get across. So for nearly a quarter of a mile we rushed that sled over "rubber" ice
that swayed and cracked and yielded under our feet and under the sled, until we reached the
bank of one of the islands, and then again we launched her and ran with her to the shore. Once
one of my feet broke through, and immediately the water welled up all around--with the steamboat
channel underneath--but without pause we increased our speed and made the strong shore ice
safely at last. No man will ever doubt the plasticity, the "viscosity" of ice, as it used to
be styled in the old glacier controversies, who has passed over the "rubber" ice that forms
under certain circumstances and at certain seasons on these rivers.

We would never, I am sure, have attempted that ice had not William been with us. We would have
struck a blow with the axe and declared it unsafe. Of course, it was unsafe; the whole journey
was unsafe, but I am convinced that this thin, continuous sheet of ice, cushioned actually
upon the surface of the water out of which it was growing, was really safer than much of the
thicker but brittle, unsupported ice we had unhesitatingly come over. Chemists tell us that
certain substances in the act of formation, which they call nascent substances, are extraordinarily
active and potent, and it may be that ice in the same state has a special tenacity of texture
which belongs to that state alone. I wish that I could have measured the thickness of that
ice. Where my foot went through I know it was very thin, but its thickness I will not venture
to guess. There was the distinct feeling that the water was bearing the ice up and when it
was punctured the water welled up with pressure behind it.

Beyond the Kornuchaket much more snow had fallen, and a few miles brought us to Moses' Village,
called grandiosely "Arctic City," since a trader had established a store and a road-house there.
At this spot a new overland mail trail from Tanana strikes the Koyukuk, and, although ten or
twelve miles remained, we felt that our journey was done. My sled dogs were there, and, as
I had not seen them for more than a year, that was a joyful reunion. Nanook's bark of welcome,
which no one but I ever got with quite the same inflection, was as grateful to me as all the
licking and slobbering of the others, for Nanook is a very independent beast, reserved in his
demonstrations and not wearing his heart on his sleeve, so to speak. They were all glad to
see me--Old Lingo and Nig, and even "Jimmy the Fake." Billy was dead. For fifteen or sixteen
months they had been boarded here, and, since fish had been very scarce the preceding summer,
their food had been chiefly bacon and rice and tallow, and there was a bill of close to four
hundred dollars against us! Dogs are very expensive things in this expensive country. When
used the winter through on the trail, and boarded the summer through at a fish camp, we estimate
that it costs one hundred dollars per head per annum to feed a dog; so that the maintenance
of a team of five dogs, which is the minimum practicable team, will cost five hundred dollars
per annum for food alone.

[Sidenote: SATURATED SNOW]

When we had eaten a good supper and were reclining on spring cots in the bunk house, there
was not one of us but confidently expected to be at the mission in the next forenoon. For a
week past the natives had been going to and fro in three or four hours. The river was completely
closed above here, and there was much more snow than we found below. So we hitched our own
dogs to our own sled the next morning, when the doctor had visited a sick person or two, and
started out on the last stretch of the journey. All went well until we had turned the long
bend at the head of which the old, abandoned post of Bergman is situated, just on the Arctic
Circle, but a mile or two beyond we were wallowing in saturated snow that stretched all across
the river right up to the banks on either side. An overflow was in progress, the water running
along the surface of the ice and soaking up the snow so that there was six inches of slush
all over it. We struggled along awhile, though from the first it seemed hopeless, and then
we gave it up and went back to the road-house. There would be no passing that stretch of river
with the sled until the cold had dealt with the overflow. It is almost always the unexpected
that happens. The next morning I put on a pair of snow-shoes--Doctor Burke's knee forbade him
their use--and taking William with me, mushed up through the slush and the snow to the mission,
leaving the others to come on with the team so soon as they found it practicable.

A mile before we reached the mission was the new village built by the Esquimaux--"Kobuk town"
they call it--and right in front of the village the Malamute Riffle, a noted difficulty of
navigation, was still running wide open, though all the rest of the river was long closed.
Near the riffle the Kobuks had a fish-trap, and some who were busy getting out fish saw and
recognised me, and the whole population came swarming out for greetings. It was good to see
these kindly, simple people again, to shake their hands and hear their "I glad I see you,"
which is the general native greeting where there is any English at all. Every one must shake
hands; even the babies on their mothers' backs stretch out their little fingers eagerly, and
if they be too small for that, the mother will take the little hand and hold it out. At the
bend we take a portage and a quarter of a mile brings us to the Allakaket, to the familiar
modest buildings of the mission, with its new Koyukuk village gradually clustering round it.
The whole scene was growing into almost the exact realisation of my dream when first I camped
on this spot two years and nine months before. There was a distinct thrill of pleasure at the
sight of the church. Built entirely of logs with the bark on, there was nothing visible anywhere
about it but spruce bark, save for the gleam of the gilded cross that surmounted the little
belfry. The roof, its regular construction finished, was covered with small spruce poles with
the bark on, nailed together at the apex, and where it projected well beyond the gables its
under-side was covered with bark, as well as the cornice all round that finished it off. Even
the window-frames and the door-panels were covered with bark. It was of the same tone because
of the selfsame substance as the forest still growing around it, and it gave at the first glance
the satisfied impression of fitness. It gave the feeling that it belonged where it was placed.
It is ill praising one's own work, but I had been keen to see how it would strike me, fresh
from the outside, after a year's absence, and I was very glad indeed that it pleased me again.

[Sidenote: A STARVING WHITE MAN]

I had no more than entered upon the warm welcome that waited at Saint John's-in-the-Wilderness,
and was still wondering at the homelike cosiness which the mission house had assumed under
the deft hands of the two ladies who occupied it, when there came an Indian with word of a
white man he had found starving in the wilderness fifteen miles away. Another native with a
dog team and a supply of immediate food was hastily despatched to bring the man in, and that
night the poor emaciated fellow, looking like a man of sixty-five or seventy though he was
really no more than forty, crawled out of the sled and tottered into the house. He had started
out from Tanana two months before with two pack-horses to make his way across to the Koyukuk
diggings, had lost his way and wandered aimlessly in that vast wilderness; one horse had been
drowned, the other he had killed for meat. He had made a raft to come down the Kornutna (Old
Man Creek) to the Koyukuk, knowing that there was a trading-post near its mouth, and had been
frozen in and forced to abandon it. Since that time he had been living on a few spoonfuls of
meal a day, with frozen berries, and once or twice a ptarmigan, and when Ned found him was
at the last extremity and had given up, intending to die where he was.

