David Garcia, Tiffany Vergon, Juliet Sutherland, Charles Franks, and the Online Distributed
Proofreaders Team

BROUGHT HOME.

BY

HESBA STRETTON.

CONTENTS.

    CHAPTER I.  UPTON RECTORY

   CHAPTER II.  ANN HOLLAND

  CHAPTER III.  WHAT WAS HER DUTY?

   CHAPTER IV.  A BABY'S GRAVE

    CHAPTER V.  TOWN'S TALK

   CHAPTER VI.  THE RECTOR'S RETURN

  CHAPTER VII.  WORSE THAN DEAD

 CHAPTER VIII.  HUSBAND AND WIFE

   CHAPTER IX.  SAD DAYS

    CHAPTER X.  A SIN AND A SHAME

   CHAPTER XI.  LOST

  CHAPTER XII.  A COLONIAL CURACY

 CHAPTER XIII.  SELF-SACRIFICE

  CHAPTER XIV.  FAREWELLS

   CHAPTER XV.  IN DESPAIR

  CHAPTER XVI.  A LONG VOYAGE

 CHAPTER XVII.  ALMOST SHIPWRECKED

CHAPTER XVIII.  SAVED

CHAPTER I.

UPTON RECTORY

So quiet is the small market town of Upton, that it is difficult to believe in the stir and
din of London, which is little more than an hour's journey from it. It is the terminus of the
single line of rails branching off from the main line eight miles away, and along it three
trains only travel each way daily. The sleepy streets have old-fashioned houses straggling
along each side, with trees growing amongst them; and here and there, down the roads leading
into the the country, which are half street, half lane, green plots of daisied grass are still
to be found, where there were once open fields that have left a little legacy to the birds
and children of coming generations. Half the houses are still largely built of wood from the
forest of olden times that has now disappeared; and ancient bow-windows jut out over the side
causeways. Some of the old exclusive mansions continue to boast in a breastwork of stone pillars
linked together by chains of iron, intended as a defence against impertinent intruders, but
more often serving as safe swinging-places for the young children sent to play in the streets.
Perhaps of all times of the year the little town looks its best on a sunny autumn morning,
with its fine film of mist, when the chestnut leaves are golden, and slender threads of gossamer
are floating in the air, and heavy dews, white as the hoar-frost, glisten in the sunshine.
But at any season Upton seems a tranquil, peaceful, out-of-the-world spot, having no connection
with busier and more wretched places.

There were not many real gentry, as the townsfolk called them, living near. A few retired Londoners,
weary of the great city, and finding rents and living cheaper at Upton, had settled in trim
villas, built beyond the boundaries of the town. But for the most part the population consisted
of substantial trades-people and professional men, whose families had been represented there
for several generations. As usual the society was broken up into very small cliques; no one
household feeling itself exactly on the same social equality as another; even as far down as
the laundresses and charwomen, who could tell whose husband or son had been before the justices,
and which families had escaped that disgrace. The nearest approach to that equality and fraternity
of which we all hear so much and see so little, was unfortunately to be found in the bar-parlor
and billiard-room of the Upton Arms; but even this was lost as soon as the threshold was recrossed,
and the boon-companions of the interior breathed the air of the outer world. "And her all know they
are not true nothing. There is not any I have ever seen who is so manly frank Mr. Upton trelyon--
not any one; and if She have seen that, if I have set it could very
much set, well, that is a misfortune, and I have to suffer she for
it." So,
what with a variety of domestic circumstances, and a diversity of religious opinions, it is
not to be wondered at that the society of Upton was broken up into very small circles indeed.

There was one point, however, on which all the townspeople were united. There could be no doubt
whatever as to the beauty of the old Norman church, lying just beyond the eastern boundary
of the town; not mingling with its business, but standing in a solemn quiet of its own, as
if to guard the repose of the sleepers under its shadow. The churchyard too, was beautiful,
with its grand and dusky old yew-trees, spreading their broad sweeping branches like cedars,
and with many a bright colored flower-bed lying amongst the dark green of the graves. The townspeople
loved to stroll down to it in the twilight, with half-stirred idle thoughts of better things
soothing away the worries and cares of the day. A narrow meadow of glebe-land separated the
churchyard from the Rectory garden, a bank of flowers and turf sloping up to the house. Nowhere
could a more pleasant, home-like dwelling be found, lightly covered with sweet-scented creeping
plants, which climbed up to the highest gable, and flung down long sprays of blossom-laden
branches to toss to and fro in the air. Many a weary, bedinned Londoner had felt heart-sick
at the sight of its tranquillity and peace.

The people of Upton, great and small, conformist or nonconformist, were proud of their rector.
It was no unusual sight for a dozen or more carriages from a distance to be seen waiting at
the church door for the close of the service, not only on a Sunday morning, when custom demands
the observance, but even in the afternoon, when public worship is usually left to servant-maids.
There was not a seat to be had for love or money, either by gentle or simple, after the reading
of the Psalms had begun. The Dissenters themselves were accustomed to attend church occasionally,
with a half-guilty sense, not altogether unpleasant, of acting against their principles. But
then the rector was always on friendly terms with them: and made no distinction, in distributing
Christmas charities, between the poor old folks who went to church or to chapel, Or, as it
was said regretfully, to no place at all. He had his failings; but the one point on which all
Upton agreed was, that their church and rector were the best between that town and London.

It was a hard struggle with David Chantrey, this beloved rector of Upton, to resolve upon leaving
his parish, though only for a time, when his physicians strenuously urged him to spend two
winters, and the intervening summer, in Madeira. Very definitely they assured him that such
an absence was his only chance of assuring a fair share of the ordinary term of human life.
But it was a difficult thing to do, apart from the hardness of the struggle; and the difficulty
just verged upon an impossibility. The living was not a rich one, its whole income being a
little under L400 a year. Now, when he had provided a salary for the curate who must take his
duty, and decided upon the smallest sum necessary for his own expenses, the remainder, in whatever
way the sum was worked, was clearly quite insufficient for the maintenance of his young wife
and child. They could not go with him; that was impossible. But how were they to live whilst
he was away? No doubt, if his difficulty had been known, there were many wealthy people among
his friends who would gladly have removed it; but not one of them even guessed at it. Was not
Mrs. Bolton, the widow of the late archdeacon, and the richest woman in Upton, own aunt to
the rector, David Chantrey?

Next to Mr. Chantrey himself, Mrs. Bolton was the most eminent personage in Upton. She had
settled there upon the archdeacon's death, which happened immediately after he had obtained
the living for his wife's favorite nephew. For some years she had been the only lady connected
with the rector, and had acted as his female representative. There was neither mansion nor
cottage which she had not visited. Now, my dear, what do you say? "" what a delightful frolic
it would be one to a few days, you know-- from in break away broken to London! "of course i mean you
for persuade our friends too to come here," the widow
explained. She turned to her hostess. So early and so completely had she obtained the little sovereignty
she had assumed, that when the rightful queen came there was no room for her. The rector's
wife was only known as a pretty and pleasant-spoken young lady, who left all the parish affairs
in Mrs. Bolton's hands.

It is not to be wondered at, then, that no one guessed at David Chantrey's difficulty, though
everybody knew the exact amount of his income. Neither he nor his wife hinted at it. Sophy
Chantrey would have freely given the world, had it been hers, to accompany her husband; but
there was no chance of that. A friend was going out on the same doleful search for health;
and the two were to take charge of each other. But how to live at all while David was away?
She urged that she could manage very well on seventy or eighty pounds a year, if she and her
boy went to some cheap lodgings in a strange neighborhood, where nobody knew them; but her
husband would not listen to such a plan. The worry and fret of his brain had grown almost to
fever-height, when his aunt made a proposal, which he accepted in impatient haste. This was
that Sophy should make her home at Bolton Villa for the full time of his absence; on condition
that Charlie, a boy of seven years old, full of life and spirits, should be sent to school
for the same term.

Sophy rebelled for a little while, but in vain. In thinking of the eighteen long and dreary
months her husband would be away, she had counted upon having the consolation of her child's
companionship. But no other scheme presented itself; and she felt the sacrifice must be made
for David's sake. A suitable school was found for Charlie; and he was placed in it a day or
two before she had to journey down to Southampton with her husband. No soul on deck that day
was more sorrowful than hers. David's hollow cheeks, and thin, stooping frame, and the feeble
hand that clasped hers till the last moment, made the hope of ever seeing him again seem a
mad folly. Her sick heart refused to be comforted. He was sanguine, and spoke almost gayly
of his return; but she was filled with anguish. A strong persuasion seized upon her that she
should see his face no more; and when the bitter moment of parting was over, she travelled
back alone, heart-stricken and crushed in spirit, to her new home under Mrs. Bolton's roof.

CHAPTER II.

ANN HOLLAND

Bolton Villa was not more than a stone's throw from the rectory and the church. Sophy could
hear the same shrieks of the martins wheeling about the tower, and the same wintry chant of
the robins amid the ivy creeping up it. The familiar striking of the church clock and the chime
of the bells rang alike through the windows of both houses. But there was no sound of her husband's
voice and no merry shout of Charlie's, and the difference was appalling to her. She could not
endure it.

