By the Peruvian Indians the coca plant is regarded as something sacred and mysterious, and
it sustained an important part in the religion of the Incas. In all ceremonies, whether religious
or warlike, it was introduced, for producing smoke at the great offerings, or as the sacrifice
itself. During divine worship the priests chewed coca leaves, and unless they were supplied
with them, it was believed that the favor of the gods could not be propitiated. It was also
deemed necessary that the supplicator for divine grace should approach the priests with an
Acullico in his mouth. It was believed that any business undertaken without the benediction
of coca leaves could not prosper; and to the shrub itself worship was rendered. During an interval
of more than 300 years Christianity has not been able to subdue the deep-rooted idolatry; for
everywhere we find traces of belief in the mysterious power of this plant. The excavators in
the mines of Cerro de Pasco throw masticated coca on hard veins of metal, in the belief that
it softens the ore, and renders it more easy to work. The origin of this custom is easily explained,
when it is recollected, that in the time of the Incas it was believed that the Coyas, or the
deities of metals, rendered the mountains impenetrable, if they were not propitiated by the
odor of coca. The Indians, even at the present time, put coca leaves into the mouths of dead
persons, to secure to them a favorable reception on their entrance into another world, and
when a Peruvian Indian on a journey falls in with a mummy, he, with timid reverence, presents
to it some coca leaves as his pious offering.

Soon after the conquest of Peru, when the Spaniards treated the Indians and all their customs
with contempt, coca became an object of aversion to the whites. The reverence rendered by the
natives to the coca plant induced the Spaniards to believe that it possessed some demoniacal
influence. The officers of the government and the clergy, therefore, endeavored, by all possible
means, to extirpate its use, and this is one cause, hitherto overlooked, of the hatred with
which the Indians regarded the Spaniards. In the second council held at Lima, in 1567, coca
was described "as a worthless object, fitted for the misuse and superstition of the Indians;"
and a royal decree of October 18, 1569, expressly declares that the notions entertained by
the natives that coca gives them strength, is an "illusion of the devil" (una elusion del Demonio).
The Peruvian mine owners were the first to discover the importance of the chacchar in assisting
the Indians to go through their excessive labor, and they, together with the plantation owners,
became the most earnest defenders of coca. The consequence was, that, in defiance of royal
and ecclesiastical ordinances, its use increased rather than diminished. One of the warmest
advocates of the plant was the Jesuit Don Antonio Julian, who, in a work entitled, "Perla de
America," laments that coca is not introduced into Europe instead of tea and coffee. "It is,"
he observes, "melancholy to reflect that the poor of Europe cannot obtain this preservative
against hunger and thirst; that our working people are not supported by this strengthening
plant in their long-continued labors."[100] In the year 1793, Dr. Don Pedro Nolasco Crespo
pointed out in a treatise the important advantages that would be derived from the use of the
coca plant, if introduced into the European navies, and he expresses a wish that experiments
of its utility in that way could be tried. Though it is not probable that Dr. Crespo's wish
will ever be realized, yet there is little doubt that the use of coca as a beverage on board
ship would be attended with very beneficial results. It would afford a nutritious refreshment
to seamen in the exercise of their laborious duties, and would greatly assist in counteracting
the unwholesome effects of salt provisions. As a stimulant it would be far less injurious than
ardent spirits, for which it might be substituted without fear of any of the evil consequences
experienced by the coqueros. After a long and attentive observation of the effects of coca,
I am fully convinced that its use, in moderation, is no way detrimental to health; and that
without it the Peruvian Indian, with his spare diet, would be incapable of going through the
labor which he now performs. The coca plant must be considered as a great blessing to Peru.
It is an essential means of preserving the nationality of the Indians, and in some measure
mitigating the melancholy fate of that once great race which disease and excessive labor now
threaten to destroy.

In former times the cultivation of coca in the Montaña de Vitoc was very considerable. Upwards
of 4,000 arobas used to be annually forwarded to the market of Tarma. Now only fifty arobas
are sent. Vitoc produces no fodder for horses or mules; those animals, therefore, are very
lean and feeble in this district, and are usually unfit for work after two years. Indeed, they
suffer so much from the attacks of the blood-sucking bat and the gad-fly (tabano), that after
being only a few weeks in the Montaña de Vitoc, their strength is exhausted, and they are scarcely
able to reach the Puna. Black cattle, on the contrary, thrive excellently; but it is not possible
to keep up herds, for the young calves are all devoured by the numerous animals of prey. The
llamas, which the Cholos bring from Tapo to Vitoc, are so enfeebled and overcome by the journey,
that on the second day after their arrival it is often found necessary to send them to a colder
district.

In this Montaña the large animals of prey seldom approach human habitations, though sometimes
the ounce pays them a visit, and the Cuguar descends from the Ceja. Other animals of the feline
genus are very numerous, and their depredations render it impossible to breed poultry. Even
the fabulous animal, called the carbunculo, is said to have been seen oftener than once in
Vitoc. In almost every place I visited on the coast, in the Sierra, and in the Montañas, extraordinary
stories concerning this animal were related; and many persons even assured me they had seen
him. The carbunculo is represented to be of the size of a fox, with long black hair, and is
only visible at night, when it slinks slowly through the thickets. If followed, he opens a
flap or valve in the forehead, from under which an extraordinary, brilliant, and dazzling light
issues. The natives believe that this light proceeds from a brilliant precious stone, and that
any fool hardy person who may venture to grasp at it rashly is blinded; then the flap is let
down, and the animal disappears in the darkness. Such are the stories related by the Indians;
and it appears that the belief of the existence of the carbunculo has prevailed in Peru from
the earliest times, and certainly before the conquest, so that its introduction cannot be attributed
to the Spaniards. It is even prevalent among many of the wild Indian tribes, by whom the early
missionaries were told the stories which they in their turn repeated about the animal. As yet
nobody has been fortunate enough to capture such an animal, though the Spaniards always showed
themselves very desirous to obtain possession of the precious jewel; and the viceroys, in their
official instructions to the missionaries, placed the carbunculo in the first order of desiderata.
What animal may have served as a foundation for those fabulous stories, it is certainly difficult
to decide; probably a different one in each particular district. On the coast it may have been
the añash (one of the mephitic animals), which seeks for his food only at night. I have often
observed for a moment a singularly brilliant flashing in the eyes of that animal when irritated.

The worst enemies of the delightful Montaña de Vitoc are the wild Indians, who are only separated
from the Christian Indians by the two rivers Aynamayo and Tullumayo. They belong to the ferocious
race of the Chunchos, and in their savage manners they somewhat resemble the Casibos and Campas.
They have their chief residence in Chibatizo, nine leagues from Pucara. Only three leagues
from Pacchapata, at the confluence of the Chanchamayo and Tullumayo, they have a pretty large
village; and Palmapata, which they temporarily took possession of, is situated still nearer.
They frequently extend their hunting excursions to the banks of the great rivers, and make
inroads upon the territory of Vitoc, cruelly murdering all the Cholos they meet with. Any kind
of friendly intercourse with them is impracticable. I took some pains to accomplish that object,
but without success. While they were on their hunting expeditions I have left in their huts
knives, fish-hooks, ear-rings, and other things. In return for these presents they left for
me some of their edible roots, among which were yuccas, but all were poisoned, so that, had
we not observed caution, I and my venturous companion, Klee, might have fallen victims to the
treachery of these Indians. The Chunchos, when on their expeditions, are almost in a state
of nudity. Sometimes they wear a short whitish-brown shirt without sleeves. This garment, when
worn by the chiefs, is red. Most of them dye their hair with achote (Bixa Orellana, L.), a
deep vermilion, and paint the face and breast of the same color. Their weapons consist of a
bow of chonta (Guilielma speciosa), with which they use two kinds of arrows. One kind are very
long, with round points and barbs of chonta; the others are shorter, and have points made of
reed, which inflict deep wounds, very difficult to be healed. They also use the great wooden
sword, the macana. A cross having been put up in the forest, they fastened to it a few days
afterwards a macana and two arrows, as symbols of irreconcilable enmity to Christians. Their
warlike instrument is a reed, two feet long and four inches broad, through which their howlings
resound in horrible discord.

It is a custom with the inhabitants of Vitoc to undertake two expeditions every year against
the Chunchos. They are the most laughable enterprises imaginable. All the Cholos of the valley,
with the Alcalde at their head, or rather in the midst of them, proceed, armed with sticks,
axes, forest knives, and two muskets,[101] to explore the banks of both rivers. The front ranks
advance with drums beating, and a number of Indians carry large calabashes filled with guarapo,
to which they pay their earnest devotions every half hour. When by accident some of the Chunchos
are seen, the Cholos fly with all the rapidity that terror can inspire, and cannot be got together
again till they reach their village; then they raise a tremendous shout, and when safe in their
dwellings boast proudly of their heroic deeds.

The Chunchos are in possession of a very rich bed of salt, some twelve or fourteen leagues
from Vitoc, from whence they permit the neighboring tribes with whom they are at peace, to
supply themselves with salt. Hostile tribes, such as the Campas and the Callisecas, sometimes
attempt to carry away salt, and then a sanguinary contest ensues. This stratum of salt comes
from the top of a hill, called the Cerro de la Sal, and it runs in the direction from south-west
to north-east, to the length of nearly three leagues, covering a breadth of about thirty ells.
The salt is mixed with red earth. It is probably a continuation of the great salt bed of Maynas,
stretching eastward along the left bank of the Perene. It may be presumed that it does not
extend as far as the immense Pajonal, as the Campas go for their salt to the Cerro de la Sal.

In former times various attempts were made to convert the Chunchos to Christianity; and these
attempts were partially successful. The first missionary who ventured among them was the intrepid
Fray Geronimo Ximenes. In 1635 he penetrated from Huancabamba to the Cerro de la Sal, and there
preached the gospel in the language of the people. He built a chapel, and then directed his
course south-west to Vitoc, where he founded the village San Buenaventura. Two years after
he embarked on the Chanchamayo, with the intention of extending his mission to the Campas tribe,
by whom he was killed, together with his companion, Fray Christoval Larios, and twenty-eight
other Spaniards. Several missionaries subsequently proceeded to the Cerro de la Sal, and found
favor with the natives, so that in 1640 they had no less than seven villages of converted Chunchos,
Amagas, and Campas; but only a few years afterwards all the missionaries and soldiers were
killed and the chapels were destroyed. The Franciscan monks, inspired by their indefatigable
zeal, ventured in 1671, on a new mission to the fatal Cerro de la Sal; and they had the good
fortune to found a village in which eight hundred Neophytes were collected. A second and smaller
village was founded in the vicinity of the destroyed San Buenaventura, and named Santa Rosa
de Quimiri; but the avarice of some Spaniards who fancied there were gold mines in the Cerro
de la Sal, induced them to get the missions withdrawn from the superintendence of the priests,
and to turn the whole into a political system. Then commenced the oppression of the Indians
in those parts. The consequence was a great insurrection in 1674, when all the whites were
massacred. Thus were the labors of the missionaries a second time annihilated. Every attempt
for the conversion of Indians was for a long time fruitless, and the missionaries who ventured
to approach them were shot. After the lapse of about thirty years, during which interval the
Chunchos had fallen back to their original savage state, the founder of the Convent of Ocopa,
Fray Francisco de San Jose, with four priests and two lay brothers, penetrated into the valley
of Vitoc, and entered upon the territory of the Chunchos. At this time (1709) Vitoc was first
peopled, and in the course of twenty years six large villages were built. In the year 1739
these missions, again flourishing, counted ten Christian villages and three thousand baptized
Indians. Three years afterwards the Indian insurrection, headed by the apostate Juan Santos,
destroyed all the missions of Central Peru.

Juan Santos was an Indian born at Huamanga, and he claimed descent from the last of the Incas.
This claim was probably well founded, for before the revolt he was called Atahuallpa, which
was the name of the Inca put to death by Pizarro. Juan Santos was haughty, high spirited, and
clever. In the year 1741 he killed, in a quarrel, a Spaniard of high rank, and to elude the
pursuit of justice, he fled to the forests. There he brooded over plans for taking vengeance
on the oppressors of his country. He first addressed himself to the tribes of the Campas, and
having gained them over, he proceeded to Quisopongo in the Pajonal. From thence, in the year
1742, he made his first attack on the mission of the Cerro de la Sal. The Spaniards had already
been warned of the intended rising, but they considered it too unimportant to call for serious
measures of repression; and whilst lulling themselves in their imagined security, they were
surprised and massacred by the Indians. The insurrection spread with incredible rapidity. Juan
Santos himself led all the principal attacks. In one night he took the fortress of Quimiri
with sixty-five men, all of whom were massacred in the most cruel manner. The well-defended
fort of Paucartambo was next taken by a small number of Chunchos, commanded by Juan Santos.
All the Christian churches were destroyed by the insurgents. The sacred images and the priests
were tied together, and cast into the rivers; the villages were burned, and the cultivated
fields laid waste. The number of Spanish soldiers killed in this insurrection was 245; the
number of priests, 26. In the course of a few weeks all the missions of central Peru were completely
destroyed, and terror spread even to the mountains. The Spanish government found it necessary
to adopt the most vigorous measures, for there was reason to fear that the mountain Indians
would revolt. Castles and forts were built on the frontiers of all the Montañas and strongly
garrisoned; but the insurrection did not extend further. The ultimate fate of Juan Santos Atahuallpa
has never been satisfactorily ascertained. Some assert that he became a powerful ruler, and
that as long as he lived the races of the Chunchos, Pacañes, Chichirrenes, Campas, and Simirinches,
were united. On an old manuscript in the monastery of Ocopa I found a marginal note, in which
it was said, "As to the monster, the apostate Juan Santos Atahuallpa, after his diabolical
destruction of our missions, the wrath of God was directed against him in the most fearful
manner. He died the death of Herod, for his living body was devoured by worms."

Shortly after the tragical downfall of these missions, two priests, Fra Francisco Otasua and
Fray Salvador Pando, visited the ruins of Quimiri, and endeavored to conciliate the rebels;
but in vain. After three months, during which they suffered dreadful ill treatment from the
Chunchos, they returned to the monastery of Ocopa.

These missionaries were all monks of the order of San Francisco. Their active zeal and heroic
submission to any sacrifice in furtherance of the cause in which they were embarked must excite
at once astonishment and admiration. Undaunted by incredible privations and laborious exertions
in the pathless forests, without food or shelter; undismayed by the continual apprehension
of a violent and cruel death, they courageously obeyed the inward impulse which inspired them
to preach the gospel to the wild Indians. When intelligence was received of the violent death
of one of the brotherhood, others immediately offered to supply the place of the victim, and
the superiors of the order had much difficulty in restraining the zealous monks. In the central
and northern missions of Peru, 129 Franciscan monks were murdered by the wild Indians. Those
who compose that number are recorded by name, but many others disappeared without leaving a
trace of what had become of them, and of course they are not included in the list. The number
of lay brethren who perished is much greater. It is indeed melancholy to reflect how little
advantage has been obtained by the sacrifice of so many valuable lives. The missions have nearly
all disappeared, and the Indians have now retrograded into the savage state in which they were
before the conquest of Peru.

The Franciscan monks were mild and patient teachers. They proceeded on the principle of leaving
the Christian religion to act for itself, and they scorned to promote it by any kind of compulsion.
The Dominicans, on the other hand, who came to Peru with the conquerors, preached Christianity
with fire and sword. The Jesuits, who headed the missions of Southern Peru, adopted the one
way or the other, as they found most advantageous to the object they had in view. By this means
they secured the attachment of the neophytes, and retained most of their conversions. Many
of the Jesuit missionaries were highly intelligent and well-informed men. We are indebted to
them for important geographical and statistical information, and in particular for some philological
works of great value, viz., a grammar and dictionary of the language of every tribe they converted.
The Dominican monks, who were mere ignorant fanatics, sacrificed to their blind zeal for conversion
all the monuments of the early civilization of the Peruvians, and restrained, rather than promoted,
the intellectual development of the people. The Franciscans, animated by pious inspiration,
earnestly preached the doctrines of Christ to the wild inhabitants of the distant forests;
but they communicated little information to the rest of world. A few imperfect maps, and some
scanty notices on the manners and customs of the Indians, are the whole amount of their laical
labors.

In the year 1779 an attempt was again made to penetrate to the Cerro de la Sal, and a road
was opened leading from Palca to Chanchamayo, where a fort was built; but at the expiration
of five years the government destroyed it, as continued irruptions of the Chunchos could not
be checked. In 1784, the governor of Tarma, Don Juan Maria de Galvas, supported by the Superior
of Ocopa, Fray Manuel Sobreviela, visited the valley of Vitoc, which had been abandoned since
the Indian insurrection. The new village of San Teodoro de Pucara was founded, and the destroyed
fort, Santa Ana de Colla, was rebuilt. The Montaña was soon peopled, and in a short time it
contained upwards of forty haciendas and large chacras. The village of Sorriano, scarcely two
leagues from Colla, was then inhabited by Chunchos, who showed a willingness to maintain friendly
intercourse with the occupants of Vitoc, from whom they took meat, tools, and other things,
which they repaid by agricultural labor. Unfortunately, the plantation owners soon began to
take an undue advantage of this friendly intercourse, and to charge exorbitant prices for the
articles required by the Indians. For a pin or a needle they demanded two days' work, for a
fishing-hook four, and for a wretched knife, eight, ten, or more. A rupture was the consequence.
The Chunchos burned their own village, and returned again to Chanchamayo. Still, however, they
continued on a sort of amicable footing with the Cholos, until one of the latter wantonly shot
a Chuncho at a festival. The tribe then mustered in thousands to avenge the murder. They destroyed
the Christian villages, and massacred all the inhabitants who were not able to fly. Thus was
Vitoc once more depopulated: Cardenas, the military governor of Tarma, made a fresh endeavor
to restore the cultivation of this fine valley. He made the road again passable, laid out the
large plantation Chuntabamba, built and garrisoned the Colla fort. The site of the former Chuncho
village, Sorriano, was converted into a cocal (or coca field), and the Montaña began once more
to assume a flourishing aspect. Still, however, the Chunchos continued to harass their neighbors,
particularly during the time of the coca harvest, which could not be gathered without military
protection. During one of the harvests a laborer was shot by the wild Indians, which so terrified
the Cholos, that they all fled to Sorriano. Soon after, Cardenas died, and the coca plantation
being neglected, became a waste. A few years afterwards the hacienda of Pacchapata was laid
out. During the war of independence the Spaniards destroyed Fort Colla, and the inhabitants
of Vitoc were left without any means of defence against their savage enemies. The last attempt
to reduce the Chunchos to subjection and order was made by a military expedition under the
command of General Don Francisco de Paula de Otero, but owing to ill-arranged plans it totally
failed. No more than twenty-five years have elapsed since the valley of Vitoc, with its rich
plantations, was in the most flourishing prosperity. Now only faint traces of its past cultivation
are discernible.

The history of the Montaña of Vitoc is the history of all the Montañas of Peru. In all, we
perceive the alternate rise and decline of cultivation and civilization, caused by the efforts
of the missionaries, and the incursions of the wild Indians. Throughout all these districts
the present condition exhibits a marked inferiority to the past, a circumstance which may be
accounted for by the long-continued civil war, during the contest for independence. Nevertheless,
the internal tranquillity of the country, and the increasing population, suggest favorable
prognostics for the future.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 98: See page 189.]

[Footnote 99: I allude here to individuals (and such cases are by no means singular) who have
attained the great age of 130. Supposing these Indians to have begun to masticate coca at ten
years old, and calculate their daily consumption as a minimum at one ounce, the result is the
consumption of twenty-seven hundred weight, in 120 years.]

[Footnote 100: The worthy Padre forgets the high price that would be charged for coca in Europe.
In Tarma and Huenuco the aroba (twenty-five pounds) costs at an average six Spanish dollars;
add to this the carriage to Lima, the freight to Europe, custom-house duties, &c., and this
price would be nearly doubled.]

[Footnote 101: The whole valley of Vitoc can furnish only two muskets, and these are in as
useless a state as possible. As for powder, there is a constant want of it. During my residence
in Vitoc I usually gave the Alcalde some of my powder when he went out with his Cholos, or
when there was a firing on festival days.

A glance at the history of Peru serves to show that prior to the Spanish conquest the Indians
were the subjects of a dynasty, to which they rendered willing obedience. We find, indeed,
an uninterrupted series of revolutions and wars, arising out of the continued extension of
the empire, to which nations differing one from another in language, religion, and manners,
were gradually annexed. For some time after their subjugation these nations struggled to recover
their independence, but the wise and mild government of the Incas gradually restored peace,
and established unity. In course of time, the magnitude of the empire led to its downfall.
Huayna Inca-Capac divided his dominions between his two sons. To the elder, Huascar, he gave
the southern portion of the empire, and to the younger, Atahuallpa, he gave the northern division.
Between the two brothers there arose disputes, which led to a sanguinary war; and in that fatal
interval, Pizarro, with his invading forces, landed in Peru. With a degree of speed, which
internal union among the people would have rendered impossible, the Spaniards made themselves
masters of the country, massacred alike sovereigns and subjects, destroyed the sanctuaries,
and established a new religion and new laws. The barbarous cruelties by which that religion
and those laws were upheld are too well known to require repetition here. Of the many oppressive
measures to which the Spaniards enforced submission from the conquered people, I will briefly
notice two: the Repartimiento and the Mita. The Repartimiento was the distribution, among the
natives, of articles of European production. These distributions were under the superintendence
of the provincial authorities, the corregidores, and the sub-delegados. The law was doubtless
intended, in its origin, for the advantage and convenience of the native Indians, by supplying
them with necessaries at a reasonable price. But, subsequently, the Repartimiento became a
source of oppression and fraud, in the hands of the provincial authorities. All the corregidores
and sub-delegados became traders. They purchased consignments of manufactured goods from Europe,
at a cheap rate, and sold them to the Indians at exorbitant prices. To add to the grievance,
the articles thus forced upon the natives were, in many instances, not necessaries, but objects
of luxury utterly useless to them. Even more oppressive and cruel than the Repartimiento, was
the Mita, which consisted of the forced labor of the Indians in the mines and plantations.
Every Spaniard who wished to work a mine, obtained from the corregidor a certain number of
Indians, to each of whom he gave daily four reals as wages, with the agreement of paying to
the government a yearly tax of eight dollars. The condition of the Indians who were distributed
to the plantation owners was even worse than that of the mine laborers; they received only
two reals per day, and were required to work in the fields from three in the morning until
after sunset. The Indians employed in this compulsory labor, whether in the mines or the plantations,
were called Mitas. But there was another sort of forced labor, for which no wages were paid.
It was indeed less toilsome than working in the mines and plantations, yet the Indians employed
in it were frequently subject to much ill-treatment. I allude to domestic service in the houses
of the corregidores, sub-delegados, and priests. The Indians thus employed were called Pongos,
and they were required to continue in their places for the space of a year, after which they
were discharged. A corregidor frequently had half a dozen of these pongos, whom he provided
with miserable food and wretched clothing.[102]

In the mines and plantations countless numbers of Indians were annually swept away by the excessive
labor consequent on the mita. Some writers estimate at nine millions the number of Indians
sacrificed in the mines in the course of three centuries. This estimate is certainly too high;
but three millions more may be added for the number of victims of the mita in the plantations.

That the government in Spain should have tolerated this barbarous system, so obviously calculated
to bring ruin on the nation, may naturally be matter of surprise. But a glance at the Indian
laws (Leyes de Indias) suffices to show the distinction between the intentions of the Spanish
government and the corrupt legislation of the country. The laws are, with some few exceptions,
conceived in a mild spirit, and show that their framers had in view the well-being of the colonies.
The execution of these laws was consigned to the superintendence of what was termed the Indian
council (Consejo de Indias). This council consisted of a certain number of men who resided
in Spain, and who either were only in part acquainted with the real state of things in South
America, or were bribed by Indian gold to wink at the abuses committed there. From this council
were chosen the viceroys and high authorities of the colonies, who, whilst in the exercise
of their official functions, amassed enormous wealth by unjust exactions from the Indians.
One of the latest viceroys of Peru was a man who arrived in Lima in a state of utter poverty,
and who, in the short space of three years, amassed the immense sum of five millions of dollars.

Could it be matter of surprise if at length the Indians rose against their oppressors, and
made an effort to shake off the heavy yoke of their tyrants? For two hundred years they had
borne it silently, without a single attempt to emancipate themselves. Juan Santos Atahuallpa
was the first who stirred up revolt against the Spaniards. The insurrection which he had headed,
though deemed too insignificant to fix the attention of the short-sighted government of Lima,
nevertheless, convinced the Indians that they were strong enough to make a stand against their
oppressors. Several partial risings in Southern Peru were speedily put down; a leader was wanted
to organize the disconnected plans and movements of the insurgents. This want was at length
supplied in the person of the ill-fated Tupac Amaru, cacique of Tungasuca, a descendant of
the last Inca.

The event which caused Tupac Amaru to attempt a movement against the Spaniards occurred in
1780. In that year, the corregidor of Tinta, Don Antonio Ariaga, made repartimientos to the
amount of 340,000 dollars, and with the most cruel rigor enforced payment of the useless articles
distributed. The cacique of Tungasuca assembled the irritated Indians, who seized the corregidor
and hanged him. This was the signal for a general rising in all the neighboring districts.
The forces of Tupac Amaru augmented daily. He was invested with the title of Inca, and treated
with the honors due to sovereignty. For several months an active war was maintained in the
Puna, where several towns and villages were taken by the insurgents. Tupac Amaru had made himself
master of the village of Chucuito, and was preparing to advance upon Cuzco, when, about the
end of April, 1781, he, and all his family, were made prisoners by the Spaniards. He was tried
and condemned to death, together with his wife, two sons, his brother-in-law, and several other
individuals of note among the Indians.

But the execution of Tupac Amaru, which was marked by circumstances of monstrous barbarity,
far from stemming the tide of revolution, served only to stimulate the vengeance of the insurgents.
They once more mustered their warlike bands, under the command of Casimiro Tupac Amaru, the
brother of the late cacique, his son Andres, and an intrepid Indian chief, named Nicacatari.
The latter, assisted by Andres, burned several villages of Upper Peru, and murdered all the
whites. They next advanced upon the strongly fortified town of Sorrata, whither the Spaniards
of the surrounding districts had fled for protection. The town was taken by the insurgents,
and the inhabitants, 22,000 in number, inhumanly put to death, with the exception of eighty-seven
priests and monks. The Indians then advanced westwards, defeating several Spanish corps, and
spreading terror and dismay through the country. But, that which neither the arms nor the executions
of the Spaniards could accomplish, was effected by their gold. A treacherous Indian, bribed
by the promise of a large reward, conducted a division of Spanish soldiers to the spot where
the chiefs were accustomed to meet, unattended by any guard, to hold their council. They were
surprised, captured, and condemned to death. Once more deprived of leaders, the Indians disbanded
and withdrew, some to their homes, and others into the forests. Numberless victims paid the
debt of retribution to the Spanish government, which now adopted every measure that could tend
to annihilate the nationality of the native Indians. Their dances, their music, their dress--all
that could revive the remembrance of their progenitors, was condemned to rigorous prohibition;
they were even forbidden the use of their mother tongue, the Quichua language. The only beneficial
result of these wars, in which upwards of a hundred thousand lives were sacrificed, was the
abolition of the Repartimientos, which had been the cause of the insurrections.

Peace was now, at least to appearance, restored; and if, occasionally, symptoms of disturbance
arose, they were immediately repressed. This state of things continued until the Creoles themselves
gave the signal of revolt, and the War of Independence broke out in all the Spanish colonies
of South America. In this enterprise the Indians readily took part. But it is a great mistake
to suppose that the Indian natives made common cause with the Creoles against the Spaniards
for the purpose of bringing about the present form of government. They wished to emancipate
themselves in order to establish their own dynasty and a government modelled after that of
their forefathers. They wanted not a republic, but a monarchy, and a sovereign chosen from
the sacred race of the Incas. Having no clear comprehension of the real object of the War of
Independence, the Indians, when they saw whites fighting against whites, directed their hostility
against all Pucacuncas (pale faces) without distinction, killing loyalists or patriots, just
as they happened to fall in their way. This hatred was so bitterly manifested, that in some
provinces all the whites and mestizos were obliged to fly, even though they were the most decided
enemies of the Spanish loyalists. In Jauja the Indians vowed not to leave even a white dog
or a white fowl alive, and they even scraped the whitewash from the walls of the houses.

The provisional government ordered levies of troops to be made in the provinces which had fallen
into the hands of the patriots; and then, for the first time, Indians were enrolled in the
army as regular troops. But it was only in a very few districts that they voluntarily took
part in the conflict for independence: they performed the forced service of conscripts, and
whenever an opportunity enabled them to retire from it, they did so. The Spanish dominion being
overthrown, the war terminated, and a republican constitution was established. The Indians
then clearly perceived that they had been made the tools of the leaders of the revolution.
Upon the whole, their condition was but little improved; for if they were relieved from some
oppressive laws, other hardships weighed heavily on them, and they found that they still were
slaves in the land of their fathers. The creoles, like the Spaniards, will draw the string
of despotism till it snaps. Then will arise another Indian insurrection like that headed by
Tupac Amaru, but with a more successful result. After a fearful struggle, they may reconquer
their fatherland, and re-establish their ancient constitution; and can it be matter of surprise
if they wreak cruel vengeance on the enemies of their race?

Since the War of Independence, the Indians have made immense progress. During the civil war,
which was kept up uninterruptedly for the space of twenty years, they were taught military
manoeuvres and the use of fire-arms. After every lost battle the retreating Indians carried
with them in their flight their muskets, which they still keep carefully concealed. They are
also acquainted with the manufacture of gunpowder, of which in all their festivals they use
great quantities for squibs and rockets. The materials for the preparation of gunpowder are
found in abundance in the valleys of the Sierra.

In the year 1841, when I was passing through a miserable village on the confines of one of
the Montañas of Central Peru, I took up my abode for some days in the hut of an Indian, and
whilst there I accidentally saw eighteen muskets which were deposited in a place of concealment.
I, quite unsuspectingly, inquired of the Indian, why he thought it requisite to keep so many
weapons of defence? He replied, with a sinister frown, that the time would come when he should
find them useful. I could easily perceive that my accidental discovery was by no means agreeable
to him; and from the very marked change which I observed in his manner. I deemed it prudent
to withdraw from the village and its vicinity. Whilst my horse was being saddled, I noticed
my host and some of his confidential friends engaged in very earnest conversation, and I could
easily perceive that I was the subject of it. On my departure the Indian asked me, with apparent
friendliness of manner, which way I was going? When I was beyond the sphere of his observation,
I deemed it prudent to proceed quite in an opposite direction from the route which I told him
I intended to take.

The character of the Peruvian Indian is essentially gloomy. It was not always so, if we may
give credit to the animated pictures drawn by early travellers in Peru; but three hundred years
of oppression and suffering have impressed their melancholy stamp on the feelings and manners
of the people. This gloominess is strikingly manifested in their songs, their dances, their
dress, and their whole domestic economy. The favorite musical instruments of the Indians are
those called the Pututo and the Jaina. The former is a large conch, on which they perform mournful
music, as the accompaniment of their funeral dances. In early times this conch was employed
in the solemnities of royal interments; now its use is exclusively reserved for the anniversaries
held in commemoration of certain events connected with the fallen Inca dynasty. The Jaina appears
to be of more modern origin; it is a rude kind of clarionet, made from a reed. Its tone is
indescribably melancholy, and it produces an extraordinary impression on the natives. If a
group of Indians are rioting and drinking, or engaged in furious conflict with each other,
and the sound of the Jaina is suddenly heard, the tumult ceases, as if by a stroke of magic.
A dead stillness prevails, and all listen devoutly to the magic tones of the simple reed; tones
which frequently draw tears from the eyes of the apathetic Indian.

Their garments are all of dark and sombre hues. Dark blue is a favorite color, and appears
to be generally adopted for mourning; for whenever the Indians follow a corpse to the grave,
they always wear dark blue ponchos. The dress of the men usually consists of short trowsers,
of coarse brown cloth, fastened round the waist by a girdle, and a woollen or cotton shirt.
They seldom wear a jacket, the ponchos of Alpaca wool being always the outer garment. On their
feet they wear sandals of untanned leather, which merely cover the toes, and are fastened round
the ancle.

The dress of the women consists of a loose under garment, without sleeves, and made of coarse
blue woollen cloth. It is confined round the waist by a broad girdle, called the huccau. Over
the arms are drawn black sleeves, reaching from the wrist to about the middle of the upper
arm. A sort of robe or tunic, called the anacu, descends from the shoulders to the knees. It
is fastened, not in front, but on one side. This garment is made of a thin sort of woollen
stuff. It is always black, being worn in token of mourning for the Incas. On the occasion of
certain festivals, the Indian women wear a particolored dress, called a faldillin. This garment
frequently exhibits the most glaring contrasts of color, one half being bright red, and the
other yellow, in addition to which it is sometimes adorned with flowers of brilliant hues,
and tasteless, gold embroidery. A mantilla, consisting of a narrow piece of woollen cloth,
passed over the shoulders, and fastened under the chin, either with a long silver pin, or a
cactus-thorn, completes the costume. In this mantilla, or in a poncho, mothers are accustomed
to wrap their infants, and fastening them to their backs, they carry them about in this manner
for a whole day, whilst engaged in their work.

In their domestic relations, the Indians are unsocial and gloomy. Husband, wife, and children
live together with but little appearance of affection. The children seem to approach their
parents timidly, and whole days sometimes elapse without the interchange of a word of kindness
between them. When the Indian is not engaged in out-door work, he sits gloomily in his hut,
chewing coca, and brooding silently over his own thoughts. To his friend he is more communicative
than to his wife. With the former, he will often discourse, apparently on some secret topic,
for the space of half a night; nevertheless, he cannot be accused of treating his wife with
any degree of cruelty, or of regarding her merely in the light of his slave, as is customary
among many uncivilized races of people.

Besides the official authorities, to which the Government exacts obedience, the Peruvian Indian
acknowledges other authorities, whose functions and power are similar to those which existed
under the Inca dynasty. In like manner, though they have embraced the Christian faith, yet
they obstinately adhere to certain religious ceremonies, which have been transmitted to them
by their idolatrous progenitors. Thus their religion is a singular combination of Christian
principles and heathenish forms. Hitherto the most patient and intelligent of their religious
instructors have failed to outroot this attachment to old forms. The Christian religion has
been spread among the Indians by force; and for centuries past, they have regarded the priests
only in the light of tyrants, who make religion a cloak for the most scandalous pecuniary extortions,
and whose conduct is in direct opposition to the doctrines they profess. If they render to
them unconditional obedience, accompanied by a sort of timid reverence, it is to be attributed
less to the operation of the Christian principle, than to a lingering attachment to the theocratic
government of the Incas, which has impressed the Peruvians with a sacred awe of religion.

The superstition with which the Indians are so deeply imbued is adverse to the inculcation
of pure religious faith; it is the more difficult to be eradicated, inasmuch as it has its
origin in early tradition, and has in later times been singularly blended with the Catholic
form of worship. Of this superstition I may here adduce some examples. As soon as a dying person
draws his last breath, the relatives, or persons in attendance, put coca leaves into the mouth
of the corpse, and light a wax candle. They then collect together the household goods and clothes
of the deceased and wash them in the nearest river. They put on the dead clothes, which are
made after the pattern of a monk's habit, and they hang round the neck of the corpse a little
bag, containing seeds of coca, maize, barley, quinua, &c., for his plantations in the next
world. In the evening ashes are strewed on the floor of the room, and the door is securely
fastened. Next morning the ashes are carefully examined to ascertain whether they show any
impression of footsteps; and imagination readily traces marks, which are alleged to have been
produced by the feet of birds, dogs, cats, oxen, or llamas. The destiny of the dead person
is construed by the foot-marks which are supposed to be discernible. The worst marks are those
of hens' claws, which are believed to denote that the soul of the deceased is doomed to irrevocable
perdition. The marks of the hoofs of llamas are considered favorable, and are believed to indicate
that the soul, after a short purgatory, will be transferred to the joys of paradise. The funeral
is conducted according to Christian forms, and under the superintendence of a priest. But as
soon as the priest takes his departure food is put into the grave along with the dead body,
which is interred without a coffin. I have sometimes seen one of the nearest relatives leap
into the grave and strike the body with his foot, but the meaning of this strange proceeding
I never could clearly understand. Some curious ceremonies are observed on All Souls' Day. In
every house in which a member of the family has died in the course of the year, a table is
laid out with brandy, coca, tobacco, together with some of the favorite dishes of the deceased
person, and the chamber is kept closed the whole day. The family firmly believe that the spirit
of their departed relative on that day revisits his earthly abode, and partakes of the repast
that is spread out on the table. A widow usually wears mourning for the space of twelve months.
In some provinces, on the anniversary of her husband's death, the widow puts on a bridal dress,
and over it her ordinary garments. All her relatives visit her in her dwelling, where, to the
accompaniment of doleful music, she takes the lead in a funeral dance. As the hour approaches
at which the husband died in the previous year, the dancing and the music become more and more
mournful; but whenever the hour is past one of the female friends approaches the widow and
removes her black mantilla. The other females then strip off the rest of her mourning garments,
and adorn her head with flowers. At length she appears in a complete bridal dress. The musicians
strike up a lively strain, to which the whole party dance, and the evening is passed in drinking
and merry-making.

Among the Peruvian Indians there are marked varieties of form and complexion. These differences
are most distinctly observable between the inhabitants of the coast and those of the mountain
and forest regions. In general, the Peruvian Indian is of middle height, rather slender, and
not very robust. The coast Indians are more plump than the inhabitants of other districts,
because they lead a less laborious life, and are less exposed to privations. It is scarcely
possible to trace any particular national physiognomy among the Indians. In each province a
distinct character is observable in the features of the inhabitants. The varieties of feature
are less distinctly marked than the differences of complexion. The peculiar tints of the skin
are decidedly defined, and indicate respectively the inhabitants of the three principal regions.
The colder the climate, the fairer is the skin. For example, the color of the Puna Indian is
a dark red-brown; that of the native of the Sierra is considerably lighter; it is a rusty red,
but still darker than that of the coast Indians; and the natives of the forests are yellow,
nearly approaching to maize color. These differences are singularly striking, when one has
an opportunity of seeing the inhabitants of the different regions in juxtaposition. It is curious
that the Cholos of the Puna, when they settle in the forests, become only a very little clearer;
and that, on the other hand, the yellow Indians of the Montaña, after being several years in
the Puna, still retain their characteristic tint. The women are, on the whole, extremely ugly,
with round, inexpressive faces. Their hands and feet are very small.

The Indians are, on the average, remarkable for longevity, though they frequently shorten their
lives by the intemperate use of strong drinks. Instances are not rare of Indians living to
be 120 or 130 years of age, and retaining full possession of their bodily and mental powers.
Stevenson mentions that on examining the church registers of Barranca, he found that within
an interval of seven years, eleven Indians had been interred, whose united ages amounted to
1207, being an average of 109 years to each. In the year 1839 there was living in the valley
of Jauja an Indian who, according to the baptismal register shown to me by the priest, was
born in the year 1697. He himself declared that he had not for the space of ninety years tasted
a drop of water, having drunk nothing but chicha. Since he was eleven years of age, he alleged
that he had masticated coca, at least three times every day, and that he had eaten animal food
only on Sundays; on all the other days of the week he had lived on maize, quinua, and barley.
The Indians retain their teeth and hair in extreme old age; and it is remarkable that their
hair never becomes white, and very seldom even grey. Those individuals whose advanced ages
have been mentioned above, had all fine black hair.

Since the Spanish conquest, the population of Peru has diminished in an almost incredible degree.
When we read the accounts given by the old historiographers of the vast armies which the Incas
had at their command; when we behold the ruins of the gigantic buildings, and of the numerous
towns and villages scattered over Peru, it is difficult to conceive how the land could have
been so depopulated in the lapse of three centuries. At the time of the conquest it was easy,
in a short space of time, to raise an army of 300,000 men, and, moreover, to form an important
reserved force; whilst now, the Government, even with the utmost efforts, can scarcely assemble
10,000 or 12,000 men. According to the census drawn up in 1836, Peru did not contain more than
1,400,000 men, being not quite so many as were contained at an earlier period in the department
of Cuzco alone. Unfortunately there is no possibility of obtaining anything approaching to
accurate estimates of the population of early periods; and even if such documents existed,
it would be difficult to deduce from them a comparison between Peru as it now is, and Peru
at the period when Bolivia, a part of Buenos Ayres, and Columbia, belonged to the mighty empire.
I will here quote only one example of the immense diminution of the population. Father Melendez
mentions that shortly after the conquest, the parish of Ancallama, in the province of Chancay,
contained 30,000 Indians fit for service (that is to say, between the ages of eighteen and
fifty); now, the same parish contains at most 140 individuals, of whom one-third are Mestizos.
The whole coast of Peru, now almost totally depopulated, was once so thickly inhabited, that
to subdue King Chimu, in North Peru alone, an army of 80,000 men was requisite. The causes
of the diminished Indian population of Peru have been so frequently and fully detailed by previous
writers, that I need not here do more than briefly advert to them. They are found in the extensive
and reckless massacres committed by the Spaniards during the struggle of the conquest; in the
suicides and voluntary deaths resorted to by the natives to escape from the power of their
oppressors; in the mita, the small-pox, the scarlet fever, and the introduction of brandy.
The mita alone, especially the labor in the mines, has swept away four times as many Indians
as all the other causes combined. Since the abolition of the mita, the Indian population has
been on the increase, though there has not yet been time for any marked result to become manifest;
the more especially, considering the numbers of lives sacrificed during the frequent civil
wars. Nevertheless, it is easy to foresee that a decided augmentation of the Indian inhabitants
of the western parts of South America will, ere long, be apparent.

Among the aboriginal inhabitants of Peru a variety of languages are in use. In the southern
parts of the country, particularly about Cuzco, the Quichua is spoken. It was the dialect of
the court, and that which was most generally diffused, and the Spaniards therefore called it
la lengua general. In the highlands of Central Peru, the Chinchaysuyo language prevailed. The
Indians of the coast, who belonged to the race of the Chunchos, spoke the Yunga. The Kauqui
was the language of that part of Central Peru which corresponds with the present province of
Yauyos. The inhabitants of the north-eastern parts of Peru, as far as the Huallaga, spoke the
Lama language,[103] and the natives of the highland regions of Quito spoke the Quiteña.[104]
These different languages, which, with the exception of the Lama, proceed all from one source,
differ so considerably, that the inhabitants of the several districts were reciprocally incapable
of understanding each other, and the Incas found it necessary to introduce the Quichua among
all the nations they subdued. The other dialects were thereby much corrupted, and at the time
of the Spanish invasion, they were seldom correctly spoken. This corruption was naturally increased
more and more after the arrival of the Spaniards, by the introduction of a new language. Only
for a few of the new articles brought by the Spaniards to Peru did the Indians form new names,
taking the roots of the words from their own language: for most things they adopted the Spanish
names. By this means, but still more by the future intercourse of the people with the invaders,
the purity of the natural language rapidly disappeared in proportion to the influence which
the Spaniards obtained by their increase in numbers and moral superiority. At present the Quichua
is a compound of all the dialects and the Spanish; it is spoken in the greatest purity in the
southern provinces, though even there it is much intermixed with Aymara words. In Central Peru
the Chinchaysuyo prevails, and on the coast the Spanish and the Yunga. The present Indians
and people of mixed blood, who of necessity must speak the ever-changing Quichua, and also
the Spanish, speak both in so corrupt a manner, that it is frequently almost impossible to
understand them.

The family of the Incas had a secret language of their own, which was not learned by subjects.
This language is now almost totally lost, not more than two dozen words of it being preserved.
In early times, the Quichua language was much cultivated. It was used officially in public
speaking, and professors were sent by the Inca family into the provinces to teach it correctly.
For poetry, the Quichua language was not very well adapted, owing to the difficult conjugation
of the verbs, and the awkward blending of pronouns with substantives. Nevertheless, the poetic
art was zealously cultivated under the Incas. They paid certain poets (called the Haravicus),
for writing festival dramas in verse, and also for composing love-songs and heroic poems. Few
of these heroic poems have been preserved, a circumstance the more to be regretted, as many
of them would doubtless have been important historical documents; but for that very reason,
the Spaniards spared no pains to obliterate every trace of them. Some of the love-songs have,
however, been preserved. In Quichua poetry, the lines are short, and seldom thoroughly rhythmical.
Rhymes were only exceptional, and were never sought for. The poetry was, therefore, merely
a sort of broken prose.

A specimen of one of the best of the Quichua love-songs is given by Garcilaso de la Vega, in
his "Commentaries and Poems." It is copied from papers left by a monk named Blas Valera; and
some lines of it are here subjoined. The subject is an old Peruvian tradition:--A maiden of
royal blood (ñusta) is appointed by the Creator of the world (Pacchacamac) in heaven, to pour
water and snow on the earth out of a pitcher; her brother breaks the pitcher, whereupon thunder
and lightning arise.

        Cumac ñusta      Beautiful Princess,
        Turallayquim     Thy Pitcher
        Puynuyquita      Thy brother hath broken
        Paquicayan       Here in Pieces;
        Hina mantara     For that blow
        Cunuñunun        It thunders; and lightning
        Yllapantac       Flashes all around.

