Notwithstanding the weather, that evening the mail came along, the white man who is the carrier,
two tall, strong natives, and nine dogs. Only since descending to the flat had they suffered
from the cold, for they found as great a difference as we did in the temperature; and they
were grateful to us for the trail we had broken. The hut was uncomfortably crowded that night
with seven people in it, but the thermometer stood at -56° and was rising, and gave us hope
that we might move along to-morrow. Augmented as our party was into seven men, three sleds,
and nineteen or twenty dogs, trail breaking would not be so arduous and progress would be much
accelerated. There was good hope, moreover, that the heavy snow was confined to the Koyukuk
valley and that when we passed out of it we should find better going.

The morning found a temperature of 45° below, and we sallied forth, quite an expedition. Four,
including myself, went ahead beating down the trail; one was at each gee pole, our team last,
getting advantage of everything preceding. So far as the trail had been broken we made good
time, covering the nine miles in about four hours. Another hour of somewhat slower progress
took us to the top of a hill, and here the mail-carrier's two Indians had run ahead and built
a great, roaring fire and arranged a wide, commodious couch of spruce boughs, and we cooked
our lunch and took our ease for half an hour. The sky had clouded again and the temperature
had risen to 28° below.

[Sidenote: CLOSE QUARTERS]

It is strange how some scenes of the trail linger in the memory, while others are completely
forgotten. This noon halt I always remember as one of the pleasantest of all my journeyings.
There was not a breath of wind, and the smoke rose straight into the air instead of volleying
and eddying into one's face as camp-fires so often do on whichever side of them one sits. We
were all weary with our five hours' trudge, and the rest was grateful; hungry, and the boiled
ham they had sent from the mission was delicious. The warmth of the great fire and the cosiness
of the thick, deep spruce boughs gave solid comfort, and the pipe after the meal was a luxurious
enjoyment.

From that on the going was heavier and our progress slower, but we kept at it till dark, and
still far into the night, fortunate in having two Indians who knew every step of the way, until
at last we reached the hut that marks the end of the second stage from the Koyukuk River, on
the top of a birch hill. We had made nineteen and a half miles that day and had taken eleven
hours to do it.

If the noon rest be remembered as one of the pleasantest episodes of the trail, that night
in the cabin on the hill I recall as one of the most miserable in my life. The hut was still
smaller than the previous one, like it without door and window, and so low that one was bent
double all the time. Walls and roof alike were covered with a thick coating of frost. The only
wood discoverable in the dark was half-dry birch which would not burn in the stove but sent
out volumes of smoke that blinded us. When the hut did begin to get a little warm, moisture
from the roof dropped on everything. There we seven men huddled together, chilly and damp,
choked and weary--a wretched band. There was no room for the necessary cooking operations;
we had to cook and eat in relays; and how we slept, in what way seven men managed to pack themselves
and stretch themselves in those narrow quarters, I cannot tell. However, we said our prayers
and went to bed, snow falling heavily. The Indians were soon snoring, but sleep would not come
to me, tired as I was, and I had not slept at all the previous night. So presently I took trional,
X grs., and dozed off till morning.

Then we resolved to divide forces rather than subject ourselves to the miserable inconvenience
of overcrowding these tiny huts, and at this stage of the journey it was possible to do so
without losing a whole day, for there was a cabin for the noon rest. It was arranged that the
mail-man should start first and make the full day's run if possible, while we should "call
it a day" at the half-way hut.

So Bob and his Indians sallied forth while yet my boys were reading their lessons to me, and
when they were done we hitched up and followed. And as soon as we were down the hill and started
along the bald flat, it was evident that we were out of the deep snowfall, for the present
at any rate, and we plucked up spirit, for we were now to cross the wide, open, wind-swept
uplands of the headwaters of the Melozitna and Tozitna, tributaries of the Yukon--the "Tozi"
and "Melozi," as the white men call them--where snow never lies deep or long. We were out of
the Koyukuk watershed now and in country drained by direct tributaries of the Yukon. The going
was now incomparably the best we had had since we left the mission, the snow was light and
we had the mail-carrier's trail; but, although the temperature had risen to 21° below, a keen
wind put our parkee hoods up and our scarfs around our faces and made our 60° below clothing
none too warm. In three hours we had reached the Melozi cabin, although that had included the
climbing of a long, steep hill, and here we stayed for the rest of the day and night and shot
some ptarmigan for supper, though we could easily have gone on and made the rest of the run.

The next day I sent the auxiliary sled and team and driver back to the Allakaket, keeping the
mission boy with me, however, to return with the mail-carrier, who was already late and must
go back as soon as he reached Tanana. I parted with the Indian regretfully, for he had been
most helpful and always good-natured and cheerful, and had really begun to learn a little at
our travelling night-school.

[Sidenote: THE STAKED TRAIL]

[Sidenote: THE ARCTIC SKIES]

A high wind was blowing, with the thermometer at 12° below, and the mail-man's trail was already
drifted over and quite indistinguishable in the dark, and we began to appreciate the recent
staking of this trail by the Road Commission. But for these stakes, set double, a hundred yards
apart, so that they formed a lane, it would have been difficult if not impossible for us to
travel on a day like this, for here was a stretch of sixteen or seventeen miles with never
a tree and hardly the smallest bush. The wind blew stronger and stronger directly in our faces
as we rose out of the Melozitna basin on the hill that is its watershed, and when the summit
was reached and we turned and looked back there was nothing visible but a white, wind-swept
waste. But ahead all the snow was most beautifully and delicately tinted from the reflection
of the dawn on ragged shredded clouds that streamed across the southeastern sky. Where the
sky was free of cloud it gave a wonderful clear green that was almost but not quite the colour
of malachite. It was exactly the colour of the water the propeller of a steamship churns up
where the Atlantic Ocean shallows to the rocky shore of the north coast of Ireland. The clouds
themselves caught a deep dull red from the sunrise, which the snow gave back in blush pink.
Such an exquisite colour harmony did the scene compose that the wind, lulling for a moment
on the crest of the hill, seemed charmed into peace by it.

The feast of colour brought a train of colour memories, one hard upon the heels of another,
as we went down the hill; the Catbells, this golden with bracken, that purple with heather,
and each doubled in the depths of Derwentwater; an October morning in the hardwood forests
of the mountains of Tennessee, when for half an hour every gorgeous tint of red and yellow
was lavishly flaunted--and then the whole pride and splendour of it wiped out at once by a
wind that sprang up; the encircling and towering reds and pinks of a gigantic amphitheatre
of rock in the Dolomites; a patch of flowers right against the snow in the high Rockies, so
intensely blue that it seemed the whole vault of heaven could be tinctured with the pigment
that one petal would distil. And, more inspiring than them all, there came the recollection
of that wonderful sunrise and those blazing mountains of the Alatna-Kobuk portage. Every land
has its glories, and the sky is everywhere a blank canvas for the display of splendid colour,
but the tints of the arctic sky are of an infinite purity of individual tone that no other
sky can show.

As we descended the hill into the Tozitna basin the wind rose again, now charged with heavy,
driving snow, while in the valley the underfoot snow grew deep, so that it was drawing to dusk
when we reached the cabin on a fork of the Tozitna where Bob the mail-man had spent the previous
night, and there we stayed.

The next day is worthy of record for the sharp contrast it affords. All the night it had snowed
heavily, and it snowed all the morning and into the afternoon. Some sixteen or seventeen inches
of snow had fallen since Bob and his party passed, and again we had no trail at all. Moreover--strange
plaint in January in Alaska!--the weather grew so warm that the snow continually balled up
under the snow-shoes and clung to the sled and the dogs. At noon the thermometer stood at 17°
above zero--and it was but four days ago that we recorded 70° below! It will be readily understood
how such wide and sudden ranges of temperature add to the inconvenience and discomfort of mushing.
Parkees, sweaters, shirts are shed one after the other, the fur cap becomes a nuisance, the
mittens a burden, and still ploughing through the snow he is bathed in sweat who had forgotten
what sweating felt like. The poor dogs suffer the most, for they have nothing they can shed
and they can perspire only through the mouth. Their tongues drop water almost in a stream,
they labour for their breath, and their eyes have a look that comes only with soft weather
and a heavy trail. So constantly do they grab mouthfuls of snow that the operation becomes
quite a check on our progress.

By two o'clock it was growing dusk, and we had but reached the bank of the other fork of the
Tozitna, not more than eight or nine miles from the cabin where we spent the night and yet
thirteen or fourteen miles from the cabin we had hoped to reach. Beyond the banks of the stream
was no more timber for a long distance; was such another stretch of open country as we had
passed the previous day. So here was another disappointment, for camp must be made now lest
there be no chance to make camp at all. But it was a good and comfortable camp, amidst the
large spruce of the watercourse. Such disappointments are part of life on the trail; and supper
done there was the more time for the boys.

The open country was again wind-swept, and being wind-swept the snow was somewhat hardened,
and we fought our way against a gale, covering the twelve and three quarter miles in ten hours,
Sunday though it was. At that last stage on the road to Tanana came out a young man from the
mission with a dog team and an Indian, anxious at our long delay, and Harry Strangman's name
is written here with grateful recognition of this kindness and many others. We went joyfully
into town on the morrow, the 17th of January, having taken fifteen days to make a journey that
is normally made in five.

[Sidenote: THE MAIL-CARRIER]

Half-way on that last day's mush we met the mail-man returning to the Koyukuk. So much had
he been delayed that there was danger of a fine and all sorts of trouble, and the mail had
been sent out to meet him at the noon cabin, together with a supply of grub for the return
trip. But the caterer, whoever he was, forgot candles, and the mail-man would have had to make
his way back to the Koyukuk without any means of artificial light, in the shortest days of
the year, had we not been able to supply him with half a dozen candles that remained to us.
It was a disappointment to George, the boy I had brought from the mission, that he must turn
round and go back also. He had never "seen Tanana," which is quite a metropolis to him, and
had looked forward to it keenly all the journey, but the boy braced up and took his disappointment
manfully. A pitiful procession it was that passed us by and took our boy away; the poor, wearied
dogs that had certainly earned the few days' rest they were so badly in need of left a trail
of blood behind them that was sickening to see. Almost every one of them had sore, frozen feet;
many of them were lame; and when we came to descend the long hill they had just climbed, right
at its brow, where the stiffest pull had been, was a claw from a dog's foot frozen into bloody
snow.

So far as there is anything heroic about the Alaskan trail, the mail-carriers are the real
heroes. They must start out in all weathers, at all temperatures; they have a certain specified
time in which to make their trips and they must keep within that time or there is trouble.
The bordering country of the Canadian Yukon has a more humane government than ours. There neither
mail-carrier nor any one else, save in some life-or-death emergency, with licence from the
Northwest Mounted Police, may take out horse or dogs to start a journey when the temperature
is lower than 45° below zero; but I have seen a reluctant mail-carrier chased out at 60° below
zero, on pain of losing his job, on the American side. Moreover, between the seasons, when
travel on the rivers is positively dangerous to life, the mail must still be despatched and
received, although so great is the known risk to the mail, as well as to the carrier, that
no one will send any letter that he cares at all about reaching its destination until the trails
are established or the steamboats run. But the virtually empty pouches must be transported
from office to office through the running, or over the rotting ice, just the same, on pain
of the high displeasure and penalty of a department without brains and without bowels. I have
often wished since I came to Alaska that I could be postmaster-general for one week, and so
I suppose has almost every other resident of the country.

The week following my arrival at Tanana was a solid week of cold weather, the thermometer ranging
around 50° and 60° below zero, and that means keeping pretty close to the house. Even the sentries
at the army post are withdrawn and the protection of the garrison is confided to a man who
watches the grounds from a glass-walled cupola above the headquarters building. Yet a week
of confinement and inaction grows tiresome after life in the open.

Sunday is always a busy day here. The mission and native village are three miles away from
the town, and service must be held at both. The mission at Tanana is not a happy place to visit
for one who has the welfare of the natives at heart. Despite faithful and devoted effort to
check it, the demoralisation goes on apace and the outlook is dark.

[Sidenote: SINGLE MEN IN BARRACKS]

"Single men in barracks don't grow into plaster saints," we are told; sometimes they seem to
grow into drunken, lustful devils without compassion for childhood, not to mention any feeling
of magnanimity towards a feebler race. And when a girl who has been rough-handled, or who has
been given drink until she is unable to resist the multiple outrage practised upon her, is
told to pick out the malefactors from a company of soldiers, all clean-shaven, all dressed
alike, all around the same age, she generally fails to identify altogether. So the offence
goes unwhipped, and the officer is likely as not to address a reprimand to the complaining
missionary for "preferring charges you are unable to substantiate." Yet an officer who had
himself written such a letter told me once that all Indians looked alike to him. Even should
the girl identify one or more men, they have usually half a dozen comrades ready to swear an alibi.

Add to the trouble given by the soldiers the constant operation of the slinking bootleggers
of the town, a score or more of whom are known to make money by this liquor peddling, and some
of whom do nothing else for a living, yet whom it is next to impossible to convict, owing to
the cumbrous machinery of the law and the attitude of juries, and it will be seen that the
hands of those who are fighting for the native race are tied.

What has been said about the military does not by any means apply to all, either officers or
men. Some of the officers have been decent, God-fearing men, conscious of the evil and zealous
to suppress it; some of the men, indeed in all probability most of the men, quite free from
such offence; some commanding officers have kept such a well-disciplined post that offences
of all kinds have been greatly reduced. But the commanding officer is changed every year, and
the whole force is changed every two years, so that there is no continuity of policy at the
post, and an administration that has grown familiar with conditions and that stands so far
as it can for clean living and sobriety and decency and the protection of the native people,
may be followed by one that is loftily ignorant of the situation, careless about offences against
morality, and impatient of any complaint.

Off by himself, separate from the demoralising influence of the low-down white, there is every
hope and encouragement in the effort to elevate and educate the Indian; set down cheek by jowl
with the riffraff of towns and barracks, his fate seems sealed.

[Sidenote: DEATH-RATE AND BIRTH-RATE]

Let these two mission stations, the Allakaket and Tanana, one hundred and fifty miles or so
apart by the winter trail, represent the two conditions. In six years' time there has been
manifest advance at the one and decay at the other. The birth-rate is greatly in excess of
the death-rate at the Allakaket, the death-rate greatly in excess of the birth-rate at Tanana.
In the year in which this journey was made there were thirty-four deaths and fourteen births
at Tanana, and while the difference was an unusually large one, yet in the six years referred
to there has not been one year in which the number of births exceeded the number of deaths.
One does not have to be a prophet to foresee the inevitable result, if the process be not stopped.

A tribute should be paid to the zeal, now of one, now of another army surgeon at Fort Gibbon
in tending the native sick, three miles away, when we have been unable to procure a physician
of our own for the place. The missionary nurse, for five years last past Miss Florence Langdon,
has been greatly helped in her almost desperate efforts here by the willing co-operation of
these medical officers of the army.

FOOTNOTE:

[B] See illustration, p. 374. The seventy-five miles up the Yukon was through the Lower Ramparts,
one of the most picturesque portions of this great river. The stream is confined in one deep
channel by lofty mountains on both banks, and the scenery at times is very bold and wild. But
its topography makes it the natural wind course of the country--a down-river wind in winter,
an up-river wind in summer blows almost continually. It was no colder than 5° below zero when
we started on the trip, but the wind made the travelling unpleasant. The second day it had
increased to a gale, and every mile we travelled it grew stronger. We travelled three hours,
and the last hour we made scarcely a mile. So thickly charged with flying snow was the wind
and so dead ahead that despite parkee hoods it blinded us, and the dogs could hardly be forced
to keep their heads towards it. Their faces were so coated with crusted snow that they looked
curiously like the face of harlequin in the pantomime. It did become literally intolerable,
and when Arthur said that he knew there was a cabin right across the river, we made our way
thither and shortly found it and lay there the rest of the day, the gale blowing incessantly.
This was disappointing, because it meant that I could not reach Rampart for the Sunday I had
appointed.

Next day the wind had ceased and the thermometer went down to 30° below zero. In places the
ice was blown clear of snow; in other places it was heavily drifted. By midday we had reached
the lonely telegraph station at "The Rapids," and were very kindly received by the signal-corps
men in charge. They gave us to eat and to drink and would take no money. There is little travel
on this part of the river nowadays, and the telegraph men are glad to see any one who may chance
to pass by. We pushed on heavily again, and had to stop and cut a gee pole presently, for it
was hard to handle the sled without it; but the gee pole always means laborious travel. The
cold was welcome; it meant no wind; and we were glad to see the thermometer drop lower than
50° below zero that night at the old mail cabin. The mail goes no longer on the Yukon River
from Fort Yukon to Tanana, and, barring this point, Rampart, towards which we were travelling,
which is supplied across country from the Hot Springs, over the route we should traverse, no
spot on that three hundred and fifty miles of river receives any mail at all. The population
is small and scattered, it is true; on the same grounds Alaska might be denied any mail at
all. There has been much resentment at this abandonment of the Yukon River by the post-office
and several petitions for its restoration, but it has not been restored.

[Sidenote: THE WIND-SWEPT YUKON]

We travelled all the next day at 50° below zero, and it was one of the pleasantest days of
the winter. There was not a breath of wind, the going steadily improved, and, best of all,
for three hours we were travelling in the sunshine for the first time this winter. Only those
who have been deprived of the sun can really understand how joyful and grateful his return
is. There was no heat in his rays, this last day of January; the thermometer stood at 49° below
at noon, and had risen but 5° since our start in the morning; but the mere sight of him glowing
in the south, where a great bend of the river gave him to us through a gap in the mountains,
was cheerful and invigorating after two months in which we had seen no more than his gilding
of the high snows. The sun gives life to the dead landscape, colour to the oppressive monotony
of white and black, and man's heart leaps to the change as jubilantly as does the face of nature.

[Sidenote: RAMPART AND ITS SALOON]

Rampart City differs from Circle City, the other decayed mining town of the Yukon River, only
in that the process is further advanced. Year by year there are a few less men on the creeks
behind it, a few less residents in the town itself. Its long, straggling water-front consists
in the main of empty buildings, the windows boarded up, the snow drifted high about the doors.
One store now serves all ends of trade, one liquor shop serves all the desire for drink of
the whites, and slops over through the agency of two or three dissolute squaw men and half-breeds
to the natives up and down the river.[C]

Rampart had one fat year, 1898, when many hundreds of gold seekers, approaching the Klondike
by Saint Michael and the lower Yukon were attracted and halted by the gold discoveries on Big
and Little Minook, and spent the winter here. The next spring news was brought of the rich
discoveries on Anvil Creek, behind Cape Nome, and an exodus began which grew into a veritable
stampede in 1900, when the gold discoveries in the beach itself were made. Rampart's large
population faded away as surely and as quickly to Nome as Circle City's population did to the
Klondike. The Indians are almost all gone from their village a mile above the town; they dwindled
away with the dwindling prosperity, some to Tanana, some to other points down the river; and
what used to be the worst small native community in the interior of Alaska has almost ceased
to exist. Most of the little band of white folks still remaining were gathered together at
night, and appreciated, I thought, their semiannual opportunity for Divine service.

[Sidenote: "DEVELOPED"]

There is no resisting the melancholy that hangs over a place like this. As one treads the crazy,
treacherous board sidewalks, full of holes and rotten planks, now rising a step or two, now
falling, and reads the dimmed and dirty signs that once flaunted their gold and colours, "Golden
North," "Pioneer," "Reception," "The Senate" (why should every town in Alaska have a "Senate"
saloon and not one a "House of Representatives"?), one conjures up the scenes of rude revelry
these drinking places witnessed a few years ago. How high the hopes of sudden riches burned
in the breasts of the men who went in and out of them, doomed to utter disappointment in the
vast majority! What a rapscallion crew, male and female, followed this great mob of gold seekers,
and grew richer as their victims grew poorer! What earned and borrowed and saved and begged
and stolen moneys were frittered away and flung away that winter; what health and character
were undermined! How the ribaldry and valiant, stupid blasphemy rang out in these tumbling-down
shanties! Go out on the creeks and see the hills denuded of their timber, the stream-beds punched
with innumerable holes, filled up or filling up, the cabins and sluice-boxes rotting into the
moss, here and there a broken pick and shovel, here and there a rusting boiler, and take notice
that this region has been "developed."

When the debit and credit sides of the ledger are balanced, what remains to Alaska of all these
thousands of men, of all the many hundreds of thousands of dollars they brought with them?
Those creeks, stripped, gutted, and deserted; this town, waiting for a kindly fire with a favouring
breeze to wipe out its useless emptiness; a few half-breed children at mission schools; a hardy
native tribe, sophisticated, diseased, demoralised, and largely dead--that seems the net result.

The portage trail from Rampart to the Tanana River goes up Minook Creek and follows the valley
to its head, then crosses a summit and passes down through several small mining settlements
to the Hot Springs. The trail saves traversing two sides of the triangle which it makes with
the two rivers.

The dogs' feet and legs had suffered so much from the deep snow and the heavy labour of the
journey out of the Koyukuk and the rough ice of the Yukon that I was compelled to have not
merely moccasins but moose-hide leggings made here, coming right up to the belly and tying
over the back. All the hair was worn away from the back of the legs and the skin was in many
places raw.

We had thought to cover the twenty-five or thirty miles up the valley and over the summit to
a road-house just beyond its foot, but rough drifted trails and a high wind held us back until
it was dark before the ascent was reached, and we pitched our tent and reserved the climb for
the morrow.

It was a hard grind owing to the drifted snow and the wind that still disputed our passage,
but the view from the summit, nearly eighteen hundred feet above last night's camp, was compensation
enough, for it gave us the great mountain, Denali, or, as the map makers and some white men
call it, Mount McKinley. Perhaps an hundred and fifty miles away, as the crow flies, it rose
up and filled all the angle of vision to the southwest. It is not a peak, it is a region, a
great soaring of the earth's crust, rising twenty thousand feet high; so enormous in its mass,
in its snow-fields and glaciers, its buttresses, its flanking spurs, its far-flung terraces
of foot-hills and approaches, that it completely dominates the view whenever it is seen at
all. I have heard people say they thought they had seen Denali, as I have heard travellers
say they thought they had seen Mount Everest from Darjiling; but no one ever thought he saw
Denali if he saw it at all. There is no possible question about it, once the mountain has risen
before the eyes; and although Mount Everest is but the highest of a number of great peaks,
while Denali stands alone in unapproached predominance, yet I think the man who has really
looked upon the loftiest mountain in the world could have no doubt about it ever after.

How my heart burns within me whenever I get view of this great monarch of the North! There
it stood, revealed from base to summit in all its stupendous size, all its glistening majesty.
I would far rather climb that mountain than own the richest gold-mine in Alaska. Yet how its
apparent nearness mocks one; what time and cost and labour are involved even in approaching
its base with food and equipment for an attempt to reach its summit! How many schemes I have
pondered and dreamed these seven years past for climbing it! Some day time and opportunity
and resource may serve, please God, and I may have that one of my heart's desires; if not,
still it is good to have seen it from many different coigns of vantage, from this side and
from that; to have felt the awe of its vast swelling bulk, the superb dignity of its firm-seated,
broad-based uplift to the skies with a whole continent for a pedestal; to have gazed eagerly
and longingly at its serene, untrodden summit, far above the eagle's flight, above even the
most daring airman's venture, and to have desired and hoped to reach it; to desire and hope
to reach it still.[D]

Plunging down the steep descent we went for four miles, and then after a hearty dinner at the
road-house, essayed to make twenty-one miles more to the Hot Springs. But night fell again
with a number of miles yet to come, the recent storm had furrowed the trail diagonally with
hard windrows of snow that overturned the sled repeatedly and formed an hindrance that grew
greater and greater, and again we made camp in the dark, short of our expected goal.

Of late I had been carrying an hip ring, a rubber ring inflated by the breath that is the best
substitute for a mattress. The ring had been left behind at Rampart, and so dependent does
one grow on the little luxuries and ameliorations one permits oneself that these two nights
in camp were almost sleepless for lack of it.

[Sidenote: THE HOT SPRINGS]

Three hours more brought us to the spacious hotel, with its forty empty rooms, that had been
put up, out of all sense or keeping, in a wild, plunging attempt to "exploit" the Hot Springs
and make a great "health resort" of the place. The hot water had been piped a quarter of a
mile or so to spacious swimming-baths in the hotel; all sorts of expense had been lavished
on the place; but it had been a failure from the first, and has since been closed and has fallen
into dilapidation. The bottoms have dropped out of the cement baths, the paper hangs drooping
from the damp walls, the unsubstantial foundations have yielded until the floors are heaved
like the waves of the sea.[E] But at this time the hotel was still maintained and we stayed
there, and its wide entrance-hall and lobby formed an excellent place to gather the inhabitants
of the little town for Divine service--again the only opportunity in the year.

What a curious phenomenon thermal springs constitute in these parts! Here is a series of patches
of ground, free from snow, while all the country has been covered two or three feet deep these
four months; green with vegetation, while all living things elsewhere are wrapped in winter
sleep. Here is open, rushing water, throwing up clouds of steam that settles upon everything
as dense hoar frost, while all other water is held in the adamantine fetters of the ice. Where
does that constant unfailing stream of water at 110° Fahrenheit come from? Where does it get
its heat? I know of half a dozen such thermal springs in Alaska,--one far away above the Arctic
Circle between the upper courses of the Kobuk and the Noatak Rivers, that I have heard strange
tales about from the Esquimaux and that I have always wanted to visit.

Whenever I see this gush of hot water in the very midst of the ice and the snow, I am reminded
of my surprise on the top of Mount Tacoma. We had climbed some eight thousand feet of snow
and were shivering in a bitter wind on the summit, yet when the hand was thrust in a cleft
of the rock it had to be withdrawn by reason of the heat. One knows about the internal fire
of some portion of the earth's mass, of course, but such striking manifestations of it, such
bold irruption of heat in the midst of the kingdom of the cold, must always bring a certain
astonishment except to those who take everything as a matter of course.

It is evident that this hot water, capable of distribution over a considerable area of land,
makes an exceedingly favourable condition for subarctic agriculture, and a great deal of ground
has been put under cultivation with large yield of potatoes and cabbage and other vegetables.
But the limitations of Alaskan conditions have shorn all profit from the enterprise. There
is no considerable market nearer than Fairbanks, almost two hundred miles away by the river.
If the potatoes are allowed to remain in the ground until they are mature, there is the greatest
danger of the whole crop freezing while on the way to market, and in any case the truck-farmers
around Fairbanks find that their proximity to the consumer more than offsets the advantage
of the Hot Springs.

[Sidenote: ARCTIC AGRICULTURE]

When the great initial difficulties of farming in Alaska are overcome, when the moss is removed
and the ground, frozen solidly to bedrock, is broken and thawed, when its natural acidity is
counteracted by the application of some alkali, and its reeking surface moisture is drained
away; when after three or four years' cultivation it begins to make some adequate return of
roots and greens, there remains the constant difficulty of a market. Around the mining settlements
and during the uncertain life of the mining settlements, truck-farming pays very well, but
it could easily be overdone so that prices would fall below the point of any profit at all.
Transportation is expensive, and rates for a short haul on the rivers are high, out of all
proportion to rates for the long haul from the outside, so that potatoes from the Pacific coast
are brought in and sold in competition with the native-grown. And despite the protestations
of the agricultural experimental stations, the outside or "chechaco" potato has the advantage
of far better quality than that grown in Alaska. Tastes differ, and a man may speak only as
he finds. For my part, I have eaten native potatoes raised in almost every section of interior
Alaska, and have been glad to get them, but I have never eaten a native potato that compared
favourably with any good "outside" potato. The native potato is commonly wet and waxy; I have
never seen a native potato that would burst into a glistening mass of white flour, or that
had the flavour of a really good potato.

There has been much misconception about the interior of Alaska that obtains yet in some quarters,
although there is no excuse for it now. Not only the interior of Alaska, but all land at or
near sea-level in the arctic regions that is not under glacial ice-caps, is snow free and surface-thawed
in the summer and has a luxuriant vegetation. The polar ox (Sverdrup's protest against the
term "musk-ox" should surely prevail) ranges in great bands north of the 80th parallel and
must secure abundant food; and when Peary determined the insularity of Greenland he found its
most northerly point a mass of verdure and flowers.

No doubt potatoes and turnips, lettuce and cabbage, could be raised anywhere in those regions;
the intensity of the season compensates for its shortness; the sun is in the heavens twenty-four
hours in the day, and all living things sprout and grow with amazing rankness and celerity
under the strong compulsion of his continuous rays. Spring comes literally with a shout and
a rush here in Alaska, and must cry even louder and stride even faster in the "ultimate climes
of the pole." If the possibility of raising garden-truck and tubers constitutes a "farming
country," then all the arctic regions not actually under glacial ice may be so classed.

Any one who visits the Koyukuk may see monster turnips and cabbages raised at Coldfoot, near
the 68th parallel; from Sir William Parry's description we may feel quite sure that vegetables
of size and excellence might be raised at the head of Bushnan's Cove of Melville Island, on
the 75th parallel; he called it "an arctic paradise"; Greely reported "grass twenty-four inches
high and many butterflies" in the interior of Grinnell Land under the 82d parallel; and if
gold were ever discovered on the north coast of Greenland one might quite expect to hear that
some enterprising Swede was growing turnips and cabbages at Cape Morris Jessup above the 83d
parallel, and getting a dollar a pound for them.

In favourable seasons and in favourable spots of interior Alaska certain early varieties of
Siberian oats and rye have been matured, and it stands to the credit of the Experiment Station
at Rampart that a little wheat was once ripened there, though it took thirteen months from
the sowing to the ripening. When the rest of the world fills up so that economic pressure demands
the utilisation of all earth that will produce any sort of food, it may be that large tracts
in Alaska will be put under the plough; but it is hard to believe that nine tenths of all this
vast country will ever be other than wild waste land. At present the farming population is
strictly an appendage of the mining population, and the mining population rather diminishes
than increases.

Your health resort that no one will resort to is a dull place at best and a poor dependence
for merchandising, so that the little town of Hot Springs is fortunate in having some mining
country around it to fall back upon for its trade. We lay an extra day there, waiting for the
stage from Fairbanks to break trail for us through the heavy, drifted snow, having had enough
of trail breaking for a while. At midnight the stage came, two days late, and its coming caused
me as keen a sorrow and as great a loss as I have had since I came to Alaska.

[Sidenote: NANOOK'S DEATH]

We knew naught of it until the next morning, when, breakfast done and the sled lashed, we were
ready to hitch the dogs and depart. They had been put in the horse stable for there was no
dog house; the health resorter, actual or prospective, is not likely to be a dog man one supposes;
but they were loose in the morning and came to the call, all but one--Nanook. Him we sought
high and low, and at last Arthur found him, but in what pitiful case! He dragged himself slowly
and painfully along, his poor bowels hanging down in the outer hide of his belly, fearfully
injured internally, done for and killed already. It was not difficult to account for it. When
the horses came in at midnight, one of them had kicked the dog and ruptured his whole abdomen.

There was no use in inquiring whose fault it was. The dogs should have been chained; so much
was our fault. But it was hard to resist some bitter recollection that before this "exploitation"
of the springs, when there was a modest road-house instead of a mammoth hotel, there had been
kennels for dogs instead of nothing but stables for horses.

I doubt if all the veterinary surgeons in the world could have saved the dog, but there was
none to try; and there was only one thing to do, hate it as we might. Arthur and I were grateful
that neither of us had to do it, for the driver of the mail stage, who had some compunctions
of conscience, I think, volunteered to save us the painful duty. "I know how you feel," he
said slowly and kindly; "I've got a dog I think a heap of myself, but that dog ain't nothin'
to me an' I'll do it for you."

Nanook knew perfectly well that it was all over with him. Head and tail down, the picture of
resigned dejection, he stood like a petrified dog. And when I put my face down to his and said
"Good-bye," he licked me for the first time in his life. In the six years I had owned him and
driven him I had never felt his tongue before, though I had always loved him best of the bunch.
He was not the licking kind.

We hitched up our diminished team and pulled out, for we had thirty miles to make in the short
daylight and we had lost time already; and as we crossed the bridge over the steaming slough
we saw the man going slowly down to the river with the dog, the chain in one hand, a gun in
the other. My eyes filled with tears; I could not look at Arthur nor he at me as I passed forward
to run ahead of the team, and I was glad when I realised that we had drawn out of ear-shot.

All day as I trudged or trotted now on snow-shoes and now off, as the trail varied in badness,
that dog was in my mind and his loss upon my heart, the feel of his tongue upon my cheek. It
takes the close companionship between a man and his dogs in this country, travelling all the
winter long, winter after winter, through the bitter cold and the storm and darkness, through
the long, pleasant days of the warm sunshine of approaching spring, sharing labour and sharing
ease, sharing privation and sharing plenty; it takes this close companionship to make a man
appreciate a dog. As I reckoned it up, Nanook had fallen just short of pulling my sled ten
thousand miles. If he had finished this season with me he would have done fully that, and I
had intended to pension him after this winter, to provide that so long as he lived he should
have his fish and rice every day. Some doubt I had had of old Lingo lasting through the winter,
but none of Nanook, and they were the only survivors of my original team.

[Sidenote: THE TALKING DOG]

Nanook was in as good spirits as ever I knew him that last night, coming to me and plumping
his huge fore paws down on my moccasins, challenging me to play the game of toe treading that
he loved; and whenever he beat me at it he would seize my ankle in his jaws and make me hop
around on one foot, to his great delight. He was my talking dog. He had more different tones
in his bark than any other dog I ever knew. He never came to the collar in the morning, he
never was released from it at night, without a cheery "bow-wow-wow." And we never stopped finally
to make camp but he lifted up his voice. There was something curious about that. Only two nights
before, when we had been unable to reach the health resort owing to wind-hardened drifts right
across the trail that overturned the heavy sled again and again, swing the gee pole as one
would, and had stopped several times in the growing dusk to inspect a spot that seemed to promise
a camping place, Arthur had remarked that Nanook never spoke until the spot was reached on
which we decided to pitch the tent. What faculty he had of recognising a good place, of seeing
that both green spruce and dry spruce were there in sufficient quantity, I do not know--or
whether he got his cue from the tones of our voice--but he never failed to give tongue when
the stop was final and never opened his mouth when it was but tentative.

I could almost tell the nature of any disturbance that arose from the tone of Nanook's bark.
Was it some stray Indian dog prowling round the camp; was it the distant howling of wolves;
was it the approach of some belated traveller--there was a distinct difference in the way he
announced each. I well remember the new note that came into his passionate protest when he
was chained to a stump at the reindeer camp, and the foolish creatures streamed all over the
camping-ground that night. To have them right beside him and yet be unable to reach them, to
have them brushing him with their antlers while he strained helplessly at the chain, was adding
insult to injury. And he kept me awake over it all night and told me about it at intervals
all next day.

The coat that dog had was the heaviest and thickest I ever saw. On his back the long hair parted
in the middle, and underneath the hair was fur and underneath the fur was wool. He was an outdoors
dog strictly. It was only in the last year or two that he could be induced voluntarily to enter
a house; he seemed, like Mowgli, to have a suspicion of houses. And if he did come in he had
no respect for the house at all. When first I had him he would dig and scratch out of a dog-house
on the coldest night, if he could, and lay himself down comfortably on the snow. Cold meant
little to him. Fifty, sixty, seventy below zero, all night long at such temperatures he would
sleep quite contentedly. The only difference I could see that these low temperatures made to
him was an increasing dislike to be disturbed. When he had carefully tucked his nose between
his paws and adjusted his tail over all, he had gone to bed, and to make him take his nose
out of its nest and uncurl himself was like throwing the clothes off a sleeping man. He never
dug a hole for himself in the snow. I never saw a dog do that yet. In my opinion that is one
of the nature-faker's stories. A dog lies in snow just as he lies in sand, with the same preliminary
turn-round-three-times that has been so much speculated about. We always make a bed for them,
when it is very cold, by cutting and stripping a few spruce boughs, and they highly appreciate
such a couch and will growl and fight if another dog try to take it. They need more food and
particularly they need more fat when they lie out at extreme low temperatures, and we seek
to increase that element in their rations by adding tallow or bacon or bear's-grease--or seal
oil--or whatever oleaginous substance we can come by.

[Sidenote: CANINE CHARACTER]

He was a most independent dog was Nanook, a thoroughly bad dog, as one would say in some use
of that term--a thief who had no shame in his thievery but rather gloried in it. If you left
anything edible within his ingenious and comprehensive reach he regarded it as a challenge.
There comes to me a ludicrous incident that concerned a companion of one winter journey. He
had carefully prepared a lunch and had wrapped it neatly in paper, and he placed it for a moment
on the sled while he turned to put his scarf about him. But in that moment Nanook saw it and
it was gone. Through the snow, over the brush, in and out amongst the stumps the chase proceeded,
until Nanook was finally caught and my companion recovered most of the paper, for the dog had
wolfed the grub as he ran. He would stand and take any licking you offered and never utter
a sound but give a bark of defiance when you were done, and he would bear you no ill will in
the world and repeat his offence at the next opportunity. Yet so absurdly sensitive was he
in other matters of his person that the simple operation of clipping the hair from between
his toes, to prevent the "balling-up" of the snow, took two men to perform, one to sit on the
dog and the other to ply the scissors, and was accompanied always with such howls and squeals
as would make a hearer think we were flaying him alive.

Nanook's acquaintance with horses began in Fairbanks the first season I owned him, before I
had had the harness upon him, when he was rising two years old. The dogs and I were staying
at the hospital we had just established--because in those days there was nowhere else to stay--waiting
for the winter. One of the mining magnates of the infancy of the camp (broken and dead long
since; Bret Harte's lines, "Busted himself in White Pine and blew out his brains down in 'Frisco,"
often occur to me as the sordid histories of to-day repeat those of fifty years ago) had imported
a saddle-horse and, as the mild days of that charming autumn still deferred the snow, he used
to ride out past the hospital for a canter.

The dog had learned to lift the latch of the gate of the hospital yard with his nose and get
out, and when I put a wedge above the latch for greater security he learned also to circumvent
that precaution. And whenever the horse and his rider passed, Nanook would open the gate and
lead the whole pack in a noisy pursuit that changed the canter to a run and brought us natural
but mortifying remonstrance.

The rider had just passed and the dogs had pursued as usual, and I had rushed out and recalled
them with difficulty. Nanook I had by the collar. Dragging him into the yard, shutting the
gate, and putting in the wedge, I picked up a stick and gave him a few sharp blows with it.
Then flinging him off, I said: "Now, you stay in here; I'll give you a sound thrashing if you
do that again!" I was just getting acquainted with him then. The moment I loosed his collar
the dog went deliberately to the gate, stood on his hind legs while he pulled out the wedge
with his teeth, lifted the latch with his nose and swung open the gate, and standing in the
midst turned round and said to me: "Bow-wow-wow-wow-wow-wow!" It was so pointed that a passer-by,
who had paused to see the proceedings and was leaning on the fence, said to me: "Well, you
know where you can go to. That's the doggonedest dog I ever seen!"

[Sidenote: PARTNERS]

It was a pleasure to come back to Nanook after any long absence--a pleasure I was used to look
forward to. There was no special fawning or demonstration of affection; he was not that kind;
that I might have from any of the others; but from none but Nanook the bark of welcome with
my particular inflection in it that no one else ever got. "Well, well; here's the boss again;
glad to see you back"; that was about all it said. For he was a most independent dog and took
to himself an air of partnership rather than subjection. Any man can make friends with any
dog if he will, there is no question about that, but it takes a long time and mutual trust
and mutual forbearance and mutual appreciation to make a partnership. Not every dog is fit
to be partner with a man; nor every man, I think, fit to be partner with a dog.

Well, that long partnership was dissolved by the horse's hoof and I was sore for its dissolution.
There was none left now that could remember the old days of the team save Lingo, and he grew
crusty and somewhat crabbed. He was still the guardian of the sled, still the insatiable hand-shaker,
but he grew more and more unsocial with his mates, and we heard his short, sharp, angry double
bark at night more frequently than we used to. He reminded me of the complaining owl in Gray's
"Elegy." He resented any dog even approaching the sled, resented the dogs moving about at all
to disturb his "ancient solitary reign."

His work was well-nigh done, and old Lingo had honestly earned his rest. With the end of this
winter he would enter upon the easy old age that I had designed for both of them. Lingo had
never failed me; never let his traces slack if he could keep them taut, never in his life had
whip laid on his back to make him pull; a faithful old work dog for whom I had a hearty respect
and regard. But he never found his way to my heart as Nanook did. I loved Nanook, and had lost
something personal out of my life in losing him. There are other dogs that I am fond of--better
dogs in some ways that either Nanook or Lingo, swifter certainly--but I think I shall never
have two dogs again that have meant as much to me as these two. All the other dogs were of
the last two years and thought they belonged to Arthur, who fed them and handled them most.
But Nanook and Lingo had seen boys come and boys go, and they knew better.

Six years is not very much of a man's life, but it is all a dog's life; all his effective working
life. Nanook had given it all to me, willingly, gladly. He pulled so freely because he loved
to pull. He delighted in the winter, in the snow and the cold; rejoiced to be on the trail,
rejoiced to work. When we made ready to depart after a few days at a mission or in a town,
Nanook was beside himself with joy. He would burst forth into song as he saw the preparations
in hand, would run all up and down the gamut of his singular flexible voice, would tell as
plainly to all around as though he spoke it in English and Indian and Esquimau that the inaction
had irked him, that he was eager to be gone again.

Well, he was dead; as fine a dog as ever lived; as faithful and intelligent a creature as any
man ever had, not of human race, for servant, companion, and friend. And I thought the more
of myself that he had put his tongue to my cheek when I said good-bye to him.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: THE AMATEUR PHOTOGRAPHER]

Here on the Tanana was one of the most interesting original characters of the many in the land:
an old inhabitant of Alaska and of the Northwest who had followed many avocations and was now
settled down on the river bank, with a steamboat wood-yard, a road-house for the entertainment
of occasional travellers, and a little stock of trade goods chiefly for Indians of the vicinity.
A round, fat, pursy man he was, past the middle life, with a twinkling eye and a bristling
moustache, and a most amazing knack of picking up new words and using them incorrectly. He
had fallen out with the great trading company of Alaska and did almost all his purchasing from
a "mail-order house" in Chicago, the enormous quarto catalogue on the flimsiest thin paper
issued by that establishment being his chief book of reference and his choice continual reading.
He would declaim by the hour on the iniquitous prices that prevail in the interior and had
the quotations of prices of every conceivable merchandise from his vade mecum at his fingers' ends.

But his chief passion of the past two or three years was photography, in the which he had made
but little progress, despite considerable expenditures; and he had come to the conclusion about
the time of our visit that what he needed was a fine lens, although, as a matter of fact, he
had never learned to use his cheap one. He had recently become acquainted with sensitive film
and had ordered a supply. By a transposition of letters, which the nature of the substance
doubtless confirmed in his mind when it arrived, he always spoke of these convenient strips
of celluloid as "flims," and was just now most eloquently indignant that, although he had broken
utterly with the Northern Commercial Company and refused to trade with them at all, the supply
of "flims" he had received from the mail-order house were labelled "N. C." "Them blamed monopolists
has cornered the flims," he exclaimed, and was hardly persuaded that the letters signified
"non-curling" and did not darkly hint at a conspiracy in restraint of trade.

He produced and displayed a number of pieces of apparatus of a generally useless kind which
he had ordered on the strength of their much advertising, and he observed sententiously, "We
armatures get badly imposed upon." Here were patent gimcrack printing devices, although he
had scarce anything worth printing; all sorts of atrocious fancy borders with which he sought
in vain to embellish out-of-focus under-exposures; orthochromatic filters and colour screens
with which he was eliminating undesirable rays, although the chief thing his negatives lacked
was light of any kind. His soiled and stained development trays were scattered about a large
table amidst dirty cups and saucers and plates and dishes, while at the other end of the table,
surmounting a pile of thumbed and greasy magazines and newspapers, lay the monstrous mail-order
catalogue with pencilled indications of further apparatus to be purchased.

But his zeal and enthusiasm and resolute riding of his hobby were very attractive. If he ever
gets out of his head the notion that success depends upon apparatus he will doubtless become
a photographer of sorts. Enthusiasm of any kind other than mining and "mushing" enthusiasm
is so rare in this land that it is welcome even when it seems wasted. He had recently discovered
the wax match in his catalogue, and as a parting gift he presented me with a box of "them there
wax vespers which beats the sulphur match all to thunder."

[Sidenote: THE SULPHUR MATCH]

But they do not. Nothing in this country can take the place of the old-fashioned sulphur match,
long since banished from civilised communities, and the sulphur match is the only match a man
upon the trail will employ. Manufactured from blocks of wood without complete severance, so
that the ends of the matches are still held together at the bottom in one solid mass, it is
easy to strip one off at need and strike it upon the block. A block of a hundred such matches
will take up much less space than fifty of any other kind of match, and the blocks may be freely
carried in any as they are commonly carried in every pocket without fear of accidental ignition.
The only fire producer that it is worth while supplementing the sulphur match with is the even
older-fashioned flint and steel, which to a man who smokes is a convenience in a wind. All
the modern alcohol and gasoline pocket devices are extinguished by the lightest puff of wind,
but the tinder, once ignited, burns the fiercer for the blast. With dry, shredded birch-bark
I have made a fire upon occasion from the flint and steel. One resource may here be mentioned,
since we are on the subject, which is always carried in the hind-sack of my sled against difficulty
in fire making. It is a tin tobacco-box filled with strips of cotton cloth cut to the size
of the box and the whole saturated with kerosene. One or two of these strips will help very
greatly in kindling a fire when damp twigs or shavings are all that are at hand. A few camphor
balls (the ordinary "moth balls") will serve equally well; and there may come a time, on any
long journey, when the forethought that has provided such aid will be looked back upon with
very great satisfaction.

       *       *       *       *       *

The mail trail from Tanana to Fairbanks touches the Tanana River only at one point, a few miles
beyond the Hot Springs; but, as we wished to visit Nenana, we had to leave the mail trail after
two days more of uneventful travel and strike out to the river and over its surface for seventeen
or eighteen miles.

[Sidenote: A NOTABLE GENTLEWOMAN]

Nenana is a native village situated on the left bank of the Tanana, a little above the confluence
of the Nenana River with that stream, and we have established an important and flourishing
school there which receives its forty pupils from many points on the Yukon and Tanana Rivers.
None but thoroughly sound and healthy children of promise, full natives or half-breeds, are
received at the school, and we seek to give both boys and girls opportunity for the cultivation
of the native arts and for some of the white man's industrial training, in addition to the
ordinary work of the schoolroom. The school was started and had the good fortune of its first
four years' life under the care of a notable gentlewoman, Miss Annie Cragg Farthing, who was
yet at its head at the time of this visit, but who died suddenly, a martyr to her devotion
to the children, a year later; and a great Celtic cross in concrete, standing high on the bluff
across the river, now marks the spot of her own selection--a spot that gives a fine view of
Denali--where her body rests, and also the Alaskan mission's sense of the extraordinary value
of her life.

It would be easy to give striking instances of the potency and stretch of this remarkable woman's
influence amongst the native people, an influence--strange as it may sound to those who deem
any half-educated, under-bred white woman competent to take charge of an Indian school--due
as much to her wide culture, her perfect dignity and self-possession, her high breeding, as
to the love and consecrated enthusiasm of her character. It is no exaggeration to say that
Miss Farthing's work has left a mark broad and deep upon the Indian race of this whole region
that will never be wiped out.

There is no greater pleasure than to spend a few days at this school; to foregather again with
so many of the hopeful young scamps that one has oneself selected here and there and brought
to the place; to mark the improvement in them, the taming and gentling, the drawing out of
the sweet side of the nature that is commonly buried to the casual observer in the rudeness
and shyness of savage childhood. To romp with them, to tell them tales and jingles, to get
insensibly back into their familiar confidence again, to say the evening prayers with them,
to join with their clear, fresh voices in the hymns and chants, is indeed to rejuvenate oneself.
And to go away believing that real strength of character is developing, that real preparation
is making for an Indian race that shall be a better Indian race and not an imitation white
race, is the cure for the discouragement that must sometimes come to all those who are committed
heart and soul to the cause of the Alaskan native. School-teachers, it would seem, ought never
to grow old; they should suck in new youth continually from the young life around them; and
children are far and away the most interesting things in the world, more interesting even than
dogs and great mountains.

[Sidenote: CHIVALROUS INDIAN YOUTH]

All the boys in the school, I think, swarmed across the river with us when we started away
early in the morning, and the elder ones ran with the sled along the portage, mile after mile,
until I turned them back lest they be late for school.

But when they were gone, still I saw them, saw them gathered round the grey-haired lady I had
left, fawning upon her with their eyes, their hearts filled with as true chivalry as ever animated
knight or champion of the olden time. Tall, upstanding fellows of sixteen or seventeen, clean-limbed
and broad-shouldered, wild-run all their lives; hunters, with a tale of big game to the credit
of some of them would make an English sportsman envious; unaccustomed to any restraint at all
and prone to chafe at the slightest; unaccustomed to any respect for women, to any of the courtesies
of life, I saw them fly at a word, at a look, to do her bidding, saw cap snatched from head
if they encountered her about the buildings, saw them jump up and hold open the door if she
moved to pass out of a room, saw the eager devotion that would have served her upon bended
knee had they thought it would please her. It was wonderful, the only thing of quite its kind
I had ever seen in my life.

When early in the school's history an old medicine-man at Nenana had been roused to animosity
by her refusal to countenance an offensive Indian custom touching the adolescent girls, and
had defiantly announced his intention to make medicine against her, I can see her now, her
staff in her hand, attended by two or three of her devoted youths, invading the midnight pavilion
of the conjurer, in the very midst of his conjurations, tossing his paraphernalia outside,
laying her staff smartly across the shoulders of the trembling shaman, and driving the gaping
crew helter-skelter before her, their awe of the witchcraft overawed by her commanding presence.
I make no apology that I thought of the scourge of small cords that was used on an occasion
in the temple at Jerusalem, when I heard of it. It gave a shrewder blow to the lingering tyrannical
superstition of the medicine-man than decades of preaching and reasoning would have done. No
man living could have done the thing with like effect, nor any woman save one of her complete
self-possession and natural authority. The younger villagers chuckle over the jest of it to
this day, and the old witch-doctor himself was crouching at her feet and, as one may say, eating
out of her hand, within the year.

I saw these boys again, in my mind's eye, gone back to their homes here and there on the Yukon
and the Tanana after their two or three years at this school, carrying with them some better
ideal of human life than they could ever get from the elders of the tribe, from the little
sordid village trader, from most of the whites they would be thrown with, keeping something
of the vision of gentle womanhood, something of the "unbought grace of life," something of
the keen sense of truth and honour, of the nobility of service, something deeper and stronger
than mere words of the love of God, which they had learned of her whom they all revered; each
one, however much overflowed again by the surrounding waters of mere animal living, tending
a little shrine of sweeter and better things in his heart.

[Sidenote: LONG-REMEMBERED TEACHING]

Here, three years after the visit and the journey narrated, when these words are written with
diaries and letters and memoranda around me, I am just come from a long native powwow, a meeting
of all the Indians of a village for the annual election of a village council, important in
the evolution of that self-government we covet for these people, but undeniably tedious. And,
because at our missions we seek to associate with us every force that looks to the betterment
of the natives, we had invited the new government teacher, a lady of long experience in Indian
schools, to be present. She had sat patiently through the protracted meeting, and at its close,
when she rose to go, a young Indian man jumped up and held her fur cloak for her and put it
gently about her shoulders. When she had thanked him she asked with a smile: "Where did you
learn to be so polite?" A gleam came into the fellow's eyes, then he dropped them and replied,
"Miss Farthing taught me."

Two days before, returning from a journey, I had spent the night at a road-house kept by a
white man married to an Indian woman. There was excellent yeast bread on the table, and good
bread is a rare thing in Alaska. "Where did you learn to make such good bread?" I inquired
of the woman. There came the same light to her eyes and the same answer to her lips. Yet it
was nine years ago, long before the school at Nenana was started, that this Indian boy and
girl had been under Miss Farthing's teaching at Circle City.

They tell us there is no longer much place or use for gentility in the world, for men and women
nurtured and refined above the common level; tell us in particular that woman is only now emancipating
herself from centuries of ineffectual nonage, only now entering upon her active career.

Yet I am of opinion, from such opportunities to observe and compare as my constant travel has
given me, that the quiet work of this gracious woman of the old school, with her dignity that
nothing ever invaded and her poise that nothing ever disturbed, is perhaps the most powerful
single influence that has come into the lives of the natives of interior Alaska.

Two days brought us past the little native village and mission at Chena (which is pronounced
Shen-aẁ), past the little white town of the same name, to Fairbanks, the chief town of interior
Alaska. Chena is at the virtual head of the navigation of the Tanana River and is quite as
near to the gold-producing creeks as Fairbanks, which latter place is not on the Tanana River
at all but on a slough, impracticable for almost any craft at low water. For every topographical
reason, from every consideration of natural advantage, Chena should have been the river port
and town of these gold-fields. But Chena was so sure of her manifold natural advantages that
she became unduly confident and grasping. When the traders at Fairbanks offered to remove to
Chena at the beginning of the camp, if the traders at Chena would provide a site, the offer
was scornfully rejected. "They would have to come, anyway, or go out of business." But they
did not come; rather they put their backs up and fought. And because Fairbanks was enterprising
and far-sighted, while Chena was avaricious and narrow, because Fairbanks offered free sites
and Chena charged enormously for water-front, business went the ten miles up the often unnavigable
slough and settled there, and by and by built a little railway that it might be independent
of the uncertain boat service. The company came, the courts came, the hospital came, the churches
came, and Chena woke up from its dreams of easy wealth to find itself and its manifold natural
advantages passed by and ignored and the big town firmly established elsewhere.

How well I remember the virulent little newspaper published at Chena in those days and the
bitterness and vituperation it used to pour out week by week! One wishes a file of it had been
preserved. Alaskan journalism has presented many amusing curiosities that no one has had leisure
to collect, but nothing more amusing than the frenzy of impotent wrath Chena vented when it
saw its cherished prospects and opportunities slipping out of its grasp for ever.

        "If of all words on tongue or pen,
         The saddest are 'it might have been,'
         Full sad are those we often see,
         It is, but it hadn't ought to be."

It takes Bret Harte to strike the note for such rivalry and such disappointment.

FOOTNOTES:

[C] In December, 1912, a determined effort was made by the better element of the little handful
of white people in this town to secure the withdrawal of the licence of this saloon. The justice
of the peace, the government school-teacher, the postmaster, and others went up to Fairbanks
(a week's journey over the trail) and opposed the granting of the licence in court. It was
shown that the white men of the locality were so reduced in numbers that the business could
not be carried on at a profit unless liquor was sold, directly or indirectly, to the Indians.
But because by hook and by crook the names of a majority of one or two of all the white residents
of the precinct were secured for a petition in favour of the licence (two or three were secured
by telegraph at the last moment) the judge held that he had no option under the law but to
grant the licence. So, on the one hand, it is a felony to sell liquor to Indians, and annually
thousands of dollars are expended in trying to suppress such sale, while, on the other hand,
a man is licenced to sell liquor when it is shown that he cannot make a living unless he sells
to Indians; that is to say he is virtually granted a licence to sell to Indians. This note
is not intended to reflect upon the judge who granted the licence, although all his predecessors
have not put that construction upon the law, but upon a law open to that construction.

[D] This was written some two years before the opportunity came. On the 7th of June, 1913,
the writer and three companions reached the summit of Denali. ("The Ascent of Denali," Charles
Scribner's Sons, 1914.)

[E] In 1913 it was finally destroyed by fire. The outward and visible signs of the Wild West
are gone; the dance-halls and gambling tables are a thing of the past; the creeks are all connected
with Fairbanks by railway and telephone; an early closing movement has prevailed in the shops;
and the local choral society is lamenting the customary dearth of tenors for its production
of "The Messiah."

Despite the steady decline in the gold output of late years, a drop of from twenty millions
down to four or five, there is little visible decay in its trade, and despite stampedes to
new diggings all over Alaska, there is no marked visible diminution in its population, though
as a matter of fact both must have largely fallen off. The thing that more than any other has
sustained the spirits and retained the presence of the business men is the expectation that
seems to grow brighter and brighter, of the development of a quartz camp now that the placers
are being exhausted. And in that hope lies the chance of Fairbanks to become the one permanent
considerable town of interior Alaska. It is a substantial place, with good business houses
and many comfortable homes electric-lit, steam-heated, well protected against fire--better
than against flood--and, though it does not display the style and luxury of the palmy days
of Nome, it has amenities enough to make disinterested visitors and passers-by wish that its
hard-rock hopes may be realised.

[Sidenote: FAIRBANKS]

The little log church that is still, as a local artist put it, "the only thing in Fairbanks
worth making a picture of," no longer stands open all day and all night as the town's library
and reading-room, but has withdrawn into decorous Sabbath use in favour of the commodious public
library built by a Philadelphia churchman; the hospital adjoining it, that for two or three
years cared for all the sick of the camp, is supplemented by another and a larger across the
slough; young birch-trees have been successfully planted all along the principal streets, and
the front yards everywhere are ablaze with flowers the summer through. You may eat hot-house
lettuce and radishes in March; hot-house strawberries (at about ten cents apiece) in July and
August; while common outdoor garden-truck of all kinds is plentiful and good in its short season.

We had another canine misfortune while we lay there. Doc, one of our leaders, got his chain
twisted around his foot the night before we were to leave, and, in pulling to free it, stopped
the circulation of the blood and the foot froze. It was as hard as wood and sounded like wood
when it hit the sidewalks, from which the snow had been cleared, as the dog came limping along.
An hour's soaking in cold water drew the frost out of the foot, and we swathed it in cotton
saturated with carron oil, upon which it swelled so greatly that it was impossible to tell
the extent of the injury or to determine whether or not the dog would ever be of use again.
A kindly nurse at the hospital undertook his care, and we left him behind. One does not buy
a dog so late in the season, with all the idle summer to feed him through, if any shift can
be made to avoid it, and there was a Great Dane pup at the Salchaket, forty miles away, that
I might pick up as I passed and perhaps make some use of for the remainder of the winter.

That mission was the next stop on our journey, and we reached it over the level mail trail,
the chief winter highway of Alaska, connecting Fairbanks with Valdez on the coast. Three times
a week there is a horse stage with mail and passengers passing over this trail each way, together
with much other travel. The Alaska Road Commission has lavished large sums of money upon it,
and the four hundred miles or thereabout is made in a week.

[Sidenote: THE SALCHAKET]

A day and a half brought us to the Salchaket, one of a chain of missions along the Tanana River,
established by the energy and zeal of the Reverend Charles Eugene Betticher, Jr., during his
incumbency at Fairbanks, that have already brought a great change for the better in native
conditions. Five years had elapsed since last I visited this tribe, a reconnoitring visit on
one of the first steamboats that ever went up the Tanana River above Fairbanks, and it was
a delight to see the new, clean village with the little gardens round the cabins, and to note
the appreciative attitude which the Indians showed. So highly do they value the missionary
nurse in charge that however far afield their hunting may lead them, one of their number is
sent back every week to see that the mission does not lack wood and water and meat; a simple,
docile, kindly people that one's heart warms to.

This mission was our last outpost to the south. My farther journey had for its prime object
the visiting of the natives of the upper Tanana as far as the Tanana Crossing, some two hundred
and fifty miles beyond the Salchaket, the inquiring into their condition and into the desirability
of establishing a post amongst them.

[Sidenote: THE UPPER TANANA]

The upper Tanana is probably one of the most difficult streams in the world to navigate that
can by any stretch of the term be called navigable. The great Alaskan range begins to approach
the Tanana River so soon as one gets above Fairbanks. Its prominent peaks, ten thousand to
twelve thousand feet high, are continually in view from one angle to another as one pursues
the river trail, and come constantly nearer and nearer. All the streams that are confluent
with the Tanana on its left bank are glacial streams draining the high ice of these mountains.
They come down laden thick with silt, at times foaming torrents, at times merely trickling
watercourses that seam with numerous small runnels the wide deltas at their mouths. The tributaries
of the right bank flow for the most part through heavily wooded country, and come out cleanly
into the river. So the glacial waters form shoals and bars, and the woodland waters during
freshets pile them high with driftwood. Such is the chief characteristic of the upper Tanana;
a multiplicity of swift, narrow channels amidst bars laden with drift. It is subject to sudden
rises of great violence; the attempt to stem a freshet on the upper Tanana is a hair-raising
experience as the log of the Pelican would show, but does not come within this narrative. Owing
to the origin of much of its water, the Tanana is often in flood in dry, hot seasons, when
other rivers run meagrely, as well as in times of rain. It cannot be stemmed in flood; its
shoals deny passage in drouth; there must be just the right stage of water to permit its navigation,
and that stage, "without o'erflowing, full," is not often found of duration to serve the voyage
after the month of June.

A river difficult to navigate in summer is usually a river difficult to travel upon in winter,
and the upper Tanana is notoriously dangerous and treacherous. Scarce a winter or a summer
that it does not claim victims. It is emphatically a "bad river." Therefore, as far as there
is any travel to speak of, land trails parallel the river. Past Richardson where the next night
is spent, a decayed mining and trading town that dates back to the stampedes of 1905-6 when
it was thought the upper Tanana would prove rich in gold, past Tenderfoot Creek on which the
discoveries were made, past the mouth of the Big Delta with the great bluff on the opposite
shore and the rushing black water at its foot that never entirely closes all the winter, and
on the other hand the wide barrens of the Big Delta itself giving the whole fine sweep of the
Alaskan range, we came at length to McCarthy's, the last telegraph station on the river,--for
the line strikes across country thence to Valdez following the government trail,--and there
spent another night, and here we leave the government-made trail and take to the river surface
and the wilderness.

Twelve miles through the woods along the left bank of the river brought us to the aptly named
Clearwater Creek, a tributary that comes only from the foot-hills and carries no glacial water.
This stream by reason of hot springs runs wide open all the winter and must be crossed by a
ferry--a raft on a heavy wire. The man who owned the ferry and the house adjacent was gone
from home, so we proceeded to cross as best we could. The raft was so small that first we took
the dogs across then unloaded the sled and took part of the load, and returned for the remainder
and the sled itself. Finally a canoe was loaded on the raft and, when it had been moored on
the side we found it, Arthur paddled himself back. It was a strange scene, rafting and paddling
a canoe in interior Alaska on the 2d of March, with the thermometer at -15°. Some eight miles
farther along the portage trail we came to a little cabin about dusk, but disdaining its dirt
and darkness we pitched our tent.

Another eighteen miles the next day is noted in my diary for pleasant woodland travel and for
the particular interest of the numerous animal tracks we passed. Here a moose had crossed the
trail, ploughing through the snow like a great cart-horse; here for two or three miles a lynx
had urgent business in the direction of the Healy River. A lynx will always follow a trail
if there be one, and will pick out the best going on the ice or snow in the absence of trail.
I once followed a lynx track from the head of the Dall River to its mouth, and, save for turning
aside occasionally to investigate a clump of willows or brush, the lynx was an excellent guide.
Here were rabbit tracks and every now and then the little sharp tracks of a squirrel. We stopped
for lunch under a tall cottonwood-tree, and Arthur pointed out that the trunk, up to a high
crotch, was all seamed by bear claws. He said that the black bear climbed the same tree season
after season, and told me that, according to the Indians, this was chiefly done when first
he came from his winter den,--for the purpose of getting his bearings, as the boy suggested
with a chuckle. A fox, a marten, and a weasel had all passed across lately, and of course then
came the exclamation that scarce fails from native lips when a fox track is seen: "I wonder
if it were a black fox!" A black fox means sudden wealth beyond the dreams of avarice to an
Indian, and any fox track may be the track of a black fox.

The end of that portage brought us out on the Tanana River opposite the little trading-post
at the mouth of the Healy--the last post of any kind we should see.

[Sidenote: INDIAN TRADERS]

The trader, by whom we were hospitably entertained, had heard of our projected occupation of
the upper Tanana, and alert to his own interests, was anxious to know the plans for the establishment
of a mission--plans which were yet all to make. He naturally favoured this spot, which it was
already plain was quite out of the question, but professed his readiness to move to any place
that we might decide upon, and his entire sympathy and co-operation.

The question of the trader, which always arises upon the establishment of a new mission site,
is an important and sometimes a vexatious one, for he wields an influence amongst the Indians
second only to that of the mission itself, and may be either a great help or a great hindrance.
There is a natural desire to secure a man of character for the new post, and at the same time
a natural reluctance to disturb vested interests and arouse bitter enmity by diverting trade.
The suggestion has often been made that the mission should itself undertake a store in the
interest of the natives, but those with most experience in such matters will agree that it
is the wisdom of the bishop that sets his face against mission trading. The two offices are
so essentially dissimilar as to be almost incompatible with one another; either the person
in charge is a missionary first and a trader afterwards, in which case the store suffers, or
he is a trader first and a missionary afterwards, in which case he is not a missionary at all.
A clean, sober, and honest trader, content to take his time about getting rich, is a blessing
to an Indian community. There are some such, one thinks, but they are not numerous. The profits
are large, though the turnover is but one a year; the capital required is small; it is a life
with much leisure; but in the main it attracts only a certain class of men.

A band of Indians to whom word of our visit had been sent had come down the river this far
to meet us and escort us, but dog food was scarce and our arrival was delayed, and they had
been compelled to return to their hunting camp whither we must follow them. We were now farther
up the Tanana River than either of us had ever been before; the country had the fascination
of a new country; every bend of the river held unknown possibilities, and the keenness and
elation that only the penetration of a new country brings were upon the boy as well as upon myself.

The river and the mountains were already drawn much closer together, and as we pursued our
journey upon the one we had continual fine views of the other. The going was good--too good--for
much of it was new ice and spoke of recent overflow, and all too soon we came upon the water.
At the mouth of the Johnson River, one of the glacial streams, the whole river was overflowed,
and we waded for a mile through water that deepened continually until there was risk of wetting
our load. Then we were compelled to take to the woods and to cut a portage around the worst
and deepest of it, and so passed beyond it to good ice and to an empty cabin where we spent
the night, glad to be sheltered from an exceedingly bitter wind that had blown all day and
had taken all the pleasure out of travel.

[Sidenote: THE THERMOS BOTTLES]

It is in such weather particularly that the thermos flasks prove such a boon to the musher.
To stop and build a fire in the wind means to get chilled through. There is no pleasure in
it at all, and I would rather push on until the day's journey is done. But the native boy must
have his lunch, and will build a fire in any sort of weather and make a pot of tea. The thermos
bottle, with its boiling-hot cocoa, gives one the stimulation and nourishment that are desired
without stopping for more than a few moments. I have carried a pair of these bottles all day
at 60° below zero, and, when opened, snow had to be put into the cocoa before it was cool enough
to drink. Of course it is perfectly simple--all the astonishing things are--but I never open
one of those bottles in the cold weather and pour out its contents without marvelling at it.

We left the river and struck inland towards the foot-hills of the Alaskan range, a long, rough
journey over a trail that had been made by the band that came out to the Healy to meet us,
and had been travelled no more than by their coming and going. The snow in this region had
been as much lighter than usual as the snow in the Koyukuk had been heavier. Through the tangle
of prostrate trunks of a burned-over forest and the dense underbrush that follows such a fire,
with not enough snow to give smooth passage over the obstacles, we made our toilsome way, the
labour of the dogs calling for the continual supplement of the men, one at the gee pole and
one at the handle-bars. Some twenty miles, perhaps, a long day's continuous journey, we pushed
laboriously into the hills and then pitched our tent; but in a few miles, next morning, we
had struck the main Indian trail from the village near the Tanana Crossing, by which the hunting
party had come, and what little was left of the journey went easily enough until we reached
the considerable native encampment.

The men were all gone after moose save one half-naked, blear-eyed old paralytic, a dreadful
creature who shambled and hobbled up asking for tobacco. The women were expecting us, however,
and took the encamping out of our hands entirely, setting up the tent, hauling stove wood and
splitting it up, making our couch of spruce boughs, starting a fire, and bringing a plentiful
present of moose and caribou meat for ourselves and our dogs. Nothing could have been kinder
than our reception; the full hospitality of the wilderness was heaped upon us. It was not until
dark that the men returned, and we had all the afternoon to get acquainted with the women and
children. Already the chief difficulty we had to encounter presented itself. These people did
not speak the language of the lower Tanana and middle Yukon--Arthur's language--at all. Their
speech had much more affinity with the upper Yukon language, and it dawned upon me that they
were not of the migration that had pushed up the Tanana River from the Yukon, as all the natives
as far as the Salchaket certainly did, were not of that tribe or that movement at all, but
had come across country by the Ketchumstock from the neighbourhood of Eagle--the route we should
return to the Yukon by--and were of the Porcupine and Peel River stock. This was certainly
a surprise; I had deemed all the Tanana River Indians of the same extraction and tongue, but
the stretch of bad water from the Salchaket to the Tanana Crossing was evidently the boundary
between two peoples.

[Sidenote: CHIEF ISAAC]

That night we met Chief Isaac and the principal men of his tribe. At first it seemed that such
broken English as three or four of them had would be our only medium of intercourse, but later
one was discovered who had visited the lower Tanana and the Yukon and who understood Arthur
indifferently well, and by the double interpretation, halting and inefficient, but growing
somewhat better as we proceeded, it was possible to enter into communication. These preliminaries
arranged, the chief made a set speech of dignity and force. He thanked me for coming to them,
and regretted he had not been able to wait longer at the Healy River to help us to his camp.
When he was a boy he had been across to the Yukon and had seen Bishop Bompas, and had been
taught and baptized by him, but he was an old man now and he had forgotten what he had learned.
I was the first minister most of his people had ever seen. They heard that Indians in other
places had mission and school, and they had felt sorry a long time that no one came to teach
them; for they were very ignorant, little children who knew nothing, and when they heard a
rumour that a mission and school would be brought to them their hearts were very glad. Wherever
we should see fit to "make mission," there he and his people would go, and would help build
for us and help us in every way; but he hoped it would be near Lake Mansfield and the Crossing,
where most of them lived at present. Farther down the river was not so good for their hunting
and fishing, but they would go wherever we said. That was the burden of the chief's speech.

I took a liking to the old man at once. He was evidently a chief that was a chief. The chieftainship
here was plainly not the effete and decaying institution it is in many places on the Yukon.
He spoke for all his people without hesitation or question, and one felt that what he said
was law amongst them.

There followed for two days an almost continuous course of instruction in the elements of the
Christian faith and Christian morals, all day long and far into the night, with no more interval
than cooking and eating required. In the largest tent of the encampment, packed full of men
and women, the children wedged in where they could get, myself seated on a pile of robes and
skins, my interpreters at my side, my hearers squatted on the spruce boughs of the floor, the
instruction went on. As it proceeded, the interpretation improved, though it was still difficult
and clumsy, as speaking through two minds and two mouths must always be. Whenever I stopped
there was urgent request to go on, until at last my voice was almost gone with incessant use.
Over and over the same things I went; the cardinal facts of religion--the Incarnation, the
Crucifixion, the Resurrection, the Ascension; the cardinal laws of morality--the prohibition
of murder, adultery, theft, and falsehood; that something definite might be left behind that
should not be lost in the vagueness of general recollection, and always with the insistence
that this was God's world and not the devil's world, a world in which good should ultimately
prevail in spite of all opposition.

[Sidenote: SAVAGE, HEATHEN, PAGAN]

It is at once a high privilege and a solemn responsibility to deal with souls to whom the appeal
of the Christian religion had never before been made, as were most of my hearers. One cannot
call them "heathen." One never thinks of these Alaskan natives as heathen. "Savage" and "heathen"
and "pagan" all meant, of course, in their origin, just country people, and point to some old-time,
tremendous superciliousness of the city-bred, long since disappeared, except, perhaps, from
such places as Whitechapel and the Bowery. A savage is simply a forest dweller, a heathen a
heath dweller, and for a large part of each year I come, etymologically, within the terms myself.
But with its ordinary implication of ferocity and bloodthirstiness it is absurd to apply the
word "savage" to the mild and gentle Alaskan Indian, and, with its ordinary implication of
bowing down to wood and stone, it is misleading to apply the term "heathen" to those who never
made any sort of graven image.

Much has been written, and cleverly written, about the Alaskan Indian that is preposterously
untrue. Arthur, my half-breed boy, had recently been reading a story by Jack London, dealing
with the Indians in the vicinity of Tanana, where he was bred and born, and his indignation
at the representation of his people in this story was amusing. The story was called The Wit
of Porportuk, and it presented a native chief in almost baronial state, with slaves waiting
upon him in a large banqueting hall and I know not what accumulated wealth of furs and gold.
Such pictures are far more flagrantly untrue to any conditions that ever existed in Alaska
than anything Fenimore Cooper wrote about the Five Nations. There were never any slaves in
the interior; there was never any wealth amongst the Indians; there was never any state and
circumstance of life. And the more one lives amongst them and knows them, the less one believes
that they could ever have been a warlike people, despite their own traditions. Sporadic forays,
fostered by their ignorant dread of one another or stirred up by rival medicine-men, there
may have been between different tribes--and there certainly were between the Indians and the
Esquimaux--with ambuscade and slaughter of isolated hunting parties that ventured too far beyond
the confines of their own territory; and one such affair would furnish tradition for generations
to dilate upon. I have myself found all the men of Nulato gone scouting, or hiding--I could
not determine which--in the hills with their guns, upon a rumour that the "Huskies," or Esquimaux,
were coming; I have known the Indians of the Yukon and the Tanana, and as far as the Koyukuk,
excited and alarmed over the friendly visit of a handful of ragged natives from the Copper
River to Nenana at Christmas time, although in either case it must certainly have been fifty
years since there was any actual hostile incursion, and probably much longer.

[Sidenote: A GENTLE, TIMID PEOPLE]

They are a very timid people, and an exceedingly peaceable people. Years and years may be spent
amongst them without knowledge of a single act of violence between Indian men; they do not
quarrel and fight. Bold enough in the chase, willing to face dangers of ice and water and wild
beast, they have a dread of anything like personal encounter, and will submit to a surprising
amount of imposition and overbearing on the part of a white man without resorting to it. I
knew a certain white man who claimed a whole river valley north of the Yukon as his, who warned
off hunting parties of Indians who ventured upon it, and made them give up game killed in "his
territory." They came to the mission and complained about it, but they never withstood the
usurper. It ought to be added that it always appeared more as the making good of a practical
joke than as a serious pretension, but the point is--the Indians submitted.

So far as these natives of the interior are concerned they were never idolaters. I cannot find
that they had any distinct notion of worship at all. Their religion had root in a certain frantic
terror of the unknown, and found expression in ceaseless efforts to propitiate the malign spirits
surrounding them on every side. Thus they were given over to the mastery of those amongst them
who had the traditional art of such propitiation, and fell more or less completely under that
cruellest and most venal of sways, the tyranny of the witch-doctor. It is impossible to doubt,
and hard to exaggerate, the grinding and brutal exactions to which this rule led. Anything
that a man possessed might be demanded and must be yielded, on pain of disease and death, even
to the whole season's catch of fur or the deflowering of a young daughter. The utmost greed
and lust that can disgrace humanity found its Indian expression in the lives of some of these
medicine-men.

Since every sort of tyranny has its vulnerable spot, since the despotism of Russia was tempered
by assassination and of Japan by the effect of public suicide, so melioration of the tyranny
of the medicine-man seems to have been found in rivalry amongst members of the craft itself.
Oppressed beyond endurance by one practitioner, allegiance would be transferred to some new
claimant of occult powers, and the breaking of the monopoly of magic would be followed by a
temporary lightening of the burdens. Some of the most lurid of Alaskan legends deal with the
thaumaturgic contests of rival medicine-men, and one judges that sleight of hand and even hypnotic
suggestion were cultivated to a fine point.

To such minds the Christian teaching comes with glad and one may say instantaneous acceptance.
Their attitude is entirely childlike. They are anxious to be told more and more about it, to
be told it over and over again. There is never the slightest sign of incredulity. It does not
occur to them as possible that a man should be sent all this way to them, should hunt them
up and seek them out to tell it to them, unless it were true. And one learns over again how
universal is the appeal the Christian religion, and in particular the Life of Our Lord, makes
to mankind. I have seen Indians and Esquimaux mixed, hearing for the first time the details
of the Passion, stirred to as great indignation as was that barbarian chieftain who laid his
hand on his sword and cried, "Would I and my men had been there!" or those Western cowboys,
so the story runs, bred in illiteracy and irreligion, to whose children a school-teacher had
given an account of the same great events, and who rode up to the schoolhouse the next day
with guns and ropes, and asked: "Which way did them blamed Jews go?"

The medicine-man lies low; may himself profess acceptance of the new teaching, may even really
accept it (for it is very hard, indeed, to follow and judge all the mental processes of an
Indian)--yes, though it expressly sweep all his devils away, out of the sick, out of the wind
and storm, from off every grave mound, though it leave him no paltry net-tearing or trap-springing
sprite to work upon with his conjurations; yet the old superstition dies hard, often crops
up when one had thought it perished, and even sometimes maintains itself, sub rosa, side by
side with definite, regular Christian worship.

[Sidenote: THE OLD, OLD STORY]

The arctic explorer Stefanson, a careful and acute observer who has had exceptional opportunities
for observation of the intimate life of the Esquimaux, has written much lately of the grafting
of Christianity upon native superstition and the existence of both together, as though it were
some new thing or newly noticed by himself. Yet every one familiar with the history of Christianity
knows that it has characterised the progress of religion in all ages. There was never a people
yet that did not in great measure do this thing, nor is it reasonable to suppose that it could
have been otherwise. It is impossible to make a tabula rasa of men's minds. It is impossible
to uproot customs of immemorial antiquity without leaving some rootlets behind. And what is
acquired joins itself insensibly to what is retained, and either the incongruity is hidden
beneath a change of nomenclature or is not hidden at all. Our own social life is threaded through
and through with customs and practices which go back to a superstitious origin. The matter
is such a commonplace of history that it is bootless to labour it here.

A scientist is only a "scientist." How that name tends continually to depreciate itself as
the pursuit of physical science is divorced more and more completely from a knowledge of literature,
from a knowledge of the humanities! And a scientist is a poor guide to an acquaintance with
man, civilised or uncivilised. To come to the study of any race of man, even the most primitive,
without some knowledge of all the long history of man, of all the long history of man's thought,
man's methods, man's strivings, man's accomplishments, man's failures, is to come so ill equipped
that no just conclusions are likely to be reached. Your exclusive "scientist"--and such are
most of them to-day--may be competent to deal with circles and triangles, with wheels and levers
with cells and glands, with germs and bacilli and micro-organisms generally, with magnetos
and dynamos, with all the heavenly host if you like, but he has no equipment to deal with man!
Somatic anthropology in particular tends to assume in some quarters such an overimportance
that one falls back upon the recollection that the original head measurers were hatters and
that all hatters are proverbially mad. The occupation would seem to carry the taint.

It was with much pleasure that I was able to hold out hope to Chief Isaac of the mission and
the school he desired so earnestly for his people. It must not be supposed that all of them
were in the completely unevangelised state which has been dwelt upon, that to all of them the
teaching of those two full days was novel; some of them, like the chief himself, had been across
to the Yukon long ago and still bore some trace of the early labours of the Church of England
missionaries to whom this region of Alaska that adjoins Canada is so much indebted. Others
had once been to the Ketchumstock, upon the occasion of a visit from our missionary at Eagle,
and had received instruction from him. But there were many present in that tent who had never
seen any missionary, never had any teaching, to whom it was wholly new save as they might have
picked up some inkling from those that had been more fortunate.

[Sidenote: TRIBAL CONNECTIONS]

When we left this encampment Isaac sent two of his young men to guide us, with a sled drawn
by three or four small dogs, so gaily caparisoned with tapis and ribbons, tinsel, and pompons,
that they might have been circus dogs. Here again is evidence of this tribe's affinity with
the upper Yukon natives, and so with those of the Mackenzie. I never saw the tapis, a broad,
bright ornamented cloth that lies upon the dog's back under his harness, on the Middle Yukon.
It is characteristic of the Peel River Indians who come across by the Rampart House and La
Pierre House.

A few hours' journey brought us to the Tanana River again, which we crossed, and took a portage
on the other side that went up a long defile and then along a ridge and then down another long
defile until at night we reached the native village at Lake Mansfield; a picturesque spot,
for the lake is entirely surrounded by mountains except on the side which opens to the river.
Here the Alaskan range and the Tanana River have approached so close that the water almost
washes the base of the foot-hills, and the scenery is as fine and bold as any in Alaska. And
here, at Lake Mansfield, if only there were navigable connection between the lake and the river
into which it drains, would be an admirable place for a mission station.

A couple of hours next day took us the seven remaining miles to the Tanana Crossing. Here,
at that time, was a station of the military telegraph connecting Valdez on the coast with Fort
Egbert (Eagle) on the Yukon, a line maintained, at enormous expense, purely for military purposes.
It passed through an almost entirely uninhabited country in which perhaps scarcely a dozen
messages would originate in a year. The telegraph-line and Fort Egbert itself are now abandoned.
Strategic considerations constitute a vague and variable quantity.

It was strange to find this little station with two or three men of the signal-corps away out
here in the wilderness. Their post was supplied by mule pack-train from Fort Egbert, more than
two hundred miles away, and they told me that only ten pounds out of every hundred that left
Fort Egbert reached the Crossing, so self-limited is a pack-train through such country. We
amused ourselves calculating just how much farther mules and men could go until they ate up
all they could carry.

The Tanana Crossing is a central spot for the Indians of this region. Two days' journey up
the river was the village of the Tetlin Indians. Two days' journey into the mountain range
were the Mantasta Indians. Two days' journey across towards the Yukon were the Ketchumstock
Indians. Most of them would congregate at this spot for certain parts of the year, should we
plant a mission there, and despite the picturesque situation of Lake Mansfield, it looked as
if the Crossing were the best point for building.

[Sidenote: THE TANANA CROSSING]

Our route lay northeast, across country to Fortymile on the Yukon, two hundred and fifty miles
away, along the trail for the greater part of the distance by which the mule train reached
the Tanana Crossing. The first five miles was all up-hill, a long, stiff, steady climb to the
crest of the mountain that rises just behind the Crossing. We had to take it slowly, with frequent
stops, so steep was the grade, and every now and then we got tantalising glimpses through the
timber of the scene that spread wider and wider below us. Bend after bend of the Tanana River
unfolded itself; the Alaskan range gave peak after peak; there lay Lake Mansfield, deep in
its amphitheatre of hills, with the Indian village at its head.

At last my impatience for the view that promised made me leave the boys (we still had Isaac's
young men) and push on alone to the top. And it was indeed by far the noblest view of the winter,
one of the grandest and most extensive panoramas I had ever seen in my life.

Perhaps three miles away, as the crow flies, from the river, and seventeen hundred and fifty
feet above it, as the aneroid gave it, we were already on the watershed, and everywhere in
the direction we were travelling the wide-flung draws and gullies of the Fortymile River stretched
out, so clear and beautiful a display of the beginnings of a great drainage system that my
attention was arrested, notwithstanding my eagerness for the sight that awaited my turning
around. But it was upon turning around and looking in the direction from which we had come
that the grandeur and sublimity entered into the scene. There was, indeed, no one great dominating
feature in this prospect as in the view of Denali from the Rampart portage, but the whole background,
bounding the vision completely, was one vast wall of lofty white peaks, stretching without
a break for a hundred miles. Enormous cloud masses rose and fell about this barrier, now unfolding
to reveal dark chasms and glittering glaciers, now enshrouding them again. In the middle distance
the Tanana River wound and twisted its firm white line amidst broken patches of snow and timber
far away to either hand, and, where glacial affluents discharged into it, were finer, threadlike
lines that marked the many mouths. The thick spruce mantling the slope in the foreground gave
a sombre contrast to the fields of snow, and the yellow March sunshine was poured over all
the wide landscape save where the great clouds contended with the great mountains.

The boys had stopped to build a fire and brew some tea before leaving the timber, and I was
glad of it, for it gave me the chance to gaze my fill upon the inspiring and fascinating scene
in the pleasant warmth of the mountain top, with the thermometer at 30° in the shade and just
12° higher in the sunshine.

[Sidenote: A NOBLE VIEW]

How grateful I was for the clear bright day! What a disappointment it has been again and again
to reach such an eminence and see--nothing! It was the most extensive view of the great Alaskan
range I had ever secured--that long line of sharp peaks that stretches and broadens from the
coast inland until it culminates in the highest point of the North American continent and then
curves its way back to the coast again. Of course, what lay here within the vision was only
a small part of one arm of the range; it stopped far short of Denali on the one hand and Mount
Sanford on the other, though it included Mount Kimball and Mount Hayes; yet it was the most
impressive sight of a mountain chain I had ever beheld. It was a sight to be glad and grateful
for, to put high amongst one's joyful remembrances; and with this notable sight we bade farewell
to the Tanana valley.

Down the hill we went into Fortymile water and into a rolling country crossed by the military
mule trail. If the morning had been glorious the evening was full of penance. Long before night
our feet were sore from slipping and sliding into those wretched mule tracks. One cannot take
one's eyes from the trail for a moment, every footstep must be watched, and even then one is
continually stumbling.

We were able, however, to rig our team with the double hitch that is so much more economical
of power than the tandem hitch, whenever the width of the trail permits it. We now carry a
convertible rig, so that on narrow trails or in deep snow we can string out the dogs one in
front of the other, and when the trail is wide enough can hitch them side by side. "Seal,"
the Great Dane pup we got at the Salchaket, was a good and strong puller, but he had no coat
and no sense. It is bad enough to have no coat in this country, but to have no coat and no
sense is fatal--as he found. His feet were continually sore and he had to be specially provided
for at night if it were at all cold--a dog utterly unsuited to Alaska.

Thirty miles of such going as has been described is tiring in the extreme, and when we reached
the Lone Cabin, behold! fifteen Indians camped about it, for whom, when supper was done, followed
two hours of teaching and the baptism of six children. I would have liked to have stayed a
day with them, but if we were to spend Palm Sunday at Fortymile and Easter at Eagle as had
been promised, the time remaining did no more than serve; and there was a large band of Indians
to visit at Ketchumstock.

The next day took us into and across the Ketchumstock Flats, a wide basin surrounded by hills
and drained by the Mosquito Fork of the Fortymile. The telegraph-line, supported on tripods
against the summer yielding of the marshy soil, cuts straight across country. This basin and
the hills around form one of the greatest caribou countries, perhaps, in the world. All day
we had passed fragments of the long fences that were in use in times past by the Indians for
driving the animals into convenient places for slaughter.

The annual migration of the vast herd that roams the section of Alaska between the Yukon and
the Tanana Rivers swarms over this Flat and through these hills, and we were told at the Ketchumstock
telegraph station by the signal-corps men that they estimated that upward of one hundred thousand
animals crossed the Mosquito Fork the previous October.

[Sidenote: CARIBOU]

The big game of Alaska is not yet seriously diminished, though there was need for the legal
protection that has of late years been given. It is probable that more caribou and young moose
are killed every year by wolves than by hunters. Only in the neighbourhood of a considerable
settlement is there danger of reckless and wasteful slaughter, and some attention is paid by
game wardens to the markets of such places. The mountain-sheep stands in greater danger of
extermination than either caribou or moose. Its meat, the most delicious mutton in the world,
as it has been pronounced by epicures, brings a higher price than other wild meat, and it is
easy to destroy a band completely. The sheep on the mountains of the Alaskan range nearest
to Fairbanks have, it is said, been very greatly diminished, and that need not be wondered
at when one sees sled load after sled load, aggregating several tons of meat, brought in at
one shipment. The law protecting the sheep probably needs tightening up.

The big game is a great resource to all the people of the country, white and native. It is
no small advantage to be able to take one's gun in the fall and go out in the valleys and kill
a moose that will suffice for one man's meat almost the whole winter, or go into the hills
and kill four or five caribou that will stock his larder equally well. The fresh, clean meat
of the wilds has to most palates far finer flavour than any cold-storage meat that can be brought
into the country; and, save at one or two centres of population and distribution, cold-storage
meat is not available at all. Without its big game Alaska would be virtually uninhabitable.
Therefore most white men are content that the necessary measures be taken to prevent the wasteful
slaughter of the game; for the rights of the prospector and trapper and traveller, and the
rights of the natives to kill at any time what is necessary for food, are explicitly reserved.

[Sidenote: THE KETCHUMSTOCK]

We reached the village and telegraph post of Ketchumstock for the night only to find all the
natives gone hunting; but since they had gone in the direction of Chicken Creek, towards which
we were travelling, we were able to catch up with them the next morning without going far out
of our way. While we were pitching our tent near their encampment came two or three natives
with dog teams, and as the dogs hesitated to pass our dogs, loose on the trail, a voluble string
of curses in English fell from the Indian lips. Such is usually the first indication of contact
with white men, and in this case it spoke of the proximity of the mining on Chicken Creek.
To discover the women chewing tobacco was to add but another evidence of the sophistication
of this tribe; a different people from Chief Isaac's tribe, different through many years' familiarity
with the whites at these diggings. If the mission to be built at the Crossing tends to keep
these Indians on the Tanana River and thus away from the demoralisation of the diggings, it
will do them solid service.

In some way foul and profane language falls even more offensively from Indians than from whites;
for the same reason, perhaps, that it sounds more offensive and shocking from children than
from adults. Sometimes the Indian does not in the least understand the meaning of the words
he uses; they are the first English words he ever heard and he hears them over and over again.

So here another day and a half was spent in instruction. There are some forty souls in this
tribe and they have had teaching from time to time, though not in the last few years, at the
mouths of missionaries from Yukon posts. Most of the adults had been baptized; I baptized sixteen
children. One curious feature of my stay was the megaphonic recapitulation of the heads of
the instruction, after each session, by an elderly Indian who stood out in the midst of the
tents. What on earth this man, with his town-crier voice, was proclaiming at such length, we
were at a loss to conjecture, and upon inquiry were informed: "Them women, not much sense;
one time tell 'em, quick forget; two time tell 'em, maybe little remember." So when we stopped
for dinner and for supper and for bed, each time this brazen-lunged spieler stood forth and
reiterated the main points of the discourse "for the hareem," as Doughty would say, whose account
of the attitude of the Arabs to their women often reminds me of the Alaskan Indians. It was
interesting, but I should have preferred to edit the recapitulation.

When all was done for the day and we thought to go to bed came an Indian named "Bum-Eyed-Bob"
(these white man's nicknames, however dreadful, are always accepted and used) for a long confabulation
about the affairs of the tribe, and I gathered incidentally that gambling at the telegraph
station had been the main diversion of the winter. It seems ungracious to insist so much upon
the evil influence of the white men--we had been cordially received and entertained at that
very place, and our money refused--but there is little doubt that the abandonment of the telegraph-line
will be a good thing for these natives. Put two or three young men of no special intellectual
resource or ambition down in a lonely spot like this, with no society at all save that of the
natives and practically nothing to do, and there is a natural and almost inevitable trend to
evil. To the exceptional man with the desire of promotion, with books, and all this leisure,
it would be an admirable opportunity, but he would be quite an exceptional man who should rise
altogether superior to the temptations to idleness and debauchery. One may have true and deep
sympathy with these young men and yet be conscious of the harm they often bring about.

Ten miles or so from the encampment brought us to Chicken Creek, and from that point we took
the Fortymile River. The direct trail to Eagle with its exasperating mule tracks was now left,
and our journey was on the ice. But so warm was the weather that 16th of March that we were
wet-foot all day, and within the space of eight hours that we were travelling we had snow,
sleet, rain, and sunshine. Leaving the main river, we turned up Walker Fork and, after a few
miles, leaving that, we turned up Jack Wade Creek and pursued it far up towards its head ere
we reached the road-house for the night.

[Sidenote: THE FORTYMILE]

We were now on historic ground, so far as gold mining in Alaska is concerned. The "Fortymilers"
bear the same pioneer relation to gold mining in the North that the "Fortyniners" bear to gold
mining in California. Ever since 1886 placers have been worked in this district, and it still
yields gold, though the output and the number of men are alike much reduced. It is interesting
to talk with some of the original locators of this camp, who may yet be found here and there
in the country, and to learn of the conditions in those early days when a steamboat came up
the Yukon once in a season bringing such supplies and mail as the men received for the year.
It was here that the problem of working frozen ground was first confronted and solved; here
that the first "miner's law" was promulgated, the first "miners' meeting" dealt out justice.
Your "old-timer" anywhere is commonly laudator temporis acti, but there is good reason to believe
that these early, and certainly most adventurous, gold-miners, some of whom forced a way into
the country when there were no routes of travel, and subsisted on its resources while they
explored and prospected it, were men of a higher stamp than many who have come in since. The
extent to which that early prospecting was carried is not generally known, for these men, after
the manner of their kind, left no record behind them. There are few creek beds that give any
promise at all in the whole of this vast country that have not had some holes sunk in them.
Even in districts so remote as the Koyukuk, signs of old prospecting are encountered. When
a stampede took place to the Red Mountain or Indian River country of the middle Koyukuk in
1911-12, I was told that there was not a creek in the camp that did not show signs of having
been prospected long before, although it had passed altogether out of knowledge that this particular
region had ever been visited by prospectors.

[Sidenote: "SNIPING ON THE BARS"]

As the Fortymile is the oldest gold camp in the North, some of its trail making is of the best
in Alaska. In particular the trail from the head of Jack Wade Creek down into Steel Creek reminded
one of the Alpine roads in its bold, not to say daring, engineering. It drops from bench to
bench in great sweeping curves always with a practicable grade, and must descend nigh a thousand
feet in a couple of miles. At the mouth of Steel Creek we are on the Fortymile River again,
having saved a day's journey by this traverse. And here, on the Fortymile, we passed several
men "sniping on the bars," as the very first Alaskan gold-miners did on this same river, and
probably on these same bars, twenty-five years ago. One hand moved the "rocker" to and fro
and the other poured water into it with the "long Tom"; so was the gold washed out of the gravel
taken from just below the ice. It was interesting to see this primitive method still in practice
and to learn from the men that they were making "better than wages."

The Fortymile is a very picturesque but most tortuous river. In one place, called appropriately
"The Kink," I was able to clamber over a ridge of rocks and reach another bend of the river
in six or seven minutes, and then had to wait twenty-five minutes for the dog team, going at
a good clip, to come around to me. At length we reached the spot where a vista cut through
the timber that clothes both banks, marked the 141st meridian, the international boundary,
and passed out of Alaska into British territory. A few miles more brought us to Moose Creek,
where a little Canadian custom-house is situated, and there we spent the night.

The next day we reached the Yukon; passing gold dredges laid up for the winter and other signs
of still-persisting mining activity, going through the narrow wild cañon of the Fortymile,
and so to the little town at its mouth of the same name, where there is a mission of the Church
of England and a post of the Royal Northwest Mounted Police. I never come into contact with
this admirable body of men without wishing that we had a similar body charged with the enforcement
of the law in Alaska.

Sunday was spent there officiating for the layman in charge of the mission and in interesting
talk with the sergeant of police about the annual winter journey from Dawson to Fort McPherson
on the McKenzie, from which he had just returned with a detail of men. The next winter he and
his detail lost their way and starved and froze to death on the same journey.

Here at one time was a flourishing Indian mission and school, and here Bishop Bompas, the true
"Apostle of the North," lived for some time. The story of this man's forty-five years' single-eyed
devotion to the Indians of the Yukon and McKenzie Rivers is one of the brave chapters of missionary
history. But the Church of England "does not advertise." Writers about Alaska, even writers
about Alaskan missions, carefully collect all the data of the early Russian missions on the
coast, but ignore altogether the equally influential and lasting work done along five hundred
miles of what is now the American Yukon by the missionary clergy of the English Church before
and after the Purchase. Bishop Bompas identified himself so closely with the natives as to
become almost one of them in the eyes of the white men, and many curious stories linger amongst
the old-timers as to his habits and appearance. It is interesting to know that the bishop was
a son of that Sergeant Bompas of the English bar from whom Dickens drew the character of Sergeant
Buzfuz, counsel for the plaintiff in the famous suit of "Bardell v. Pickwick."

But the natives have all left Fortymile, some to the large village of Moosehide just below
Dawson, some to Eagle. The town, too, like all the upper Yukon towns, is much decayed; the
custom-house, the police barracks, the company's store, the road-house, and the little mission
embracing nearly all its activities and housing nearly all its population.

There is always some feeling of satisfaction in reaching the broad highway of the Yukon again,
even though rough ice make bad going and one of the most notorious, dirty road-houses in the
North hold its menace over one all day and amply fulfil it at night. There is indeed so little
travel on the river now that it does not pay any one to keep a road-house save as incidental
to a steamboat wood camp and summer fishing station. Two short days' travel brought us across
the international boundary again to Eagle in Alaska, where at that time Fort Egbert was garrisoned
with two companies of soldiers.

[Sidenote: EAGLE]

Eagle and Fort Egbert together, for the one begins where the other ends, have perhaps the finest
and most commanding situation of any settlement on the Yukon River. The mountains rise with
dignity just across the water and break pleasingly into the valley of Eagle Creek, a few miles
up-stream. To the rear of the town an inconsiderable flat does but give space and setting before
the mountains rise again; while just below the military post stands the bold and lofty bluff
called the Eagle Rock, with Mission Creek winding into the Yukon at its foot. Robert Louis
Stevenson said that Edinburgh has the finest situation of any capital in Europe and pays for
it by having the worst climate of any city in the world. It would not be just to paraphrase
this description with regard to Eagle, for while it is unsurpassed on the Yukon for site, there
are spots on that river where still more disagreeable weather prevails; yet it cannot be denied
that the position of the place subjects it to exceedingly bitter winds, or that the valley
of Eagle Creek, which gives pleasing variety to the prospect, acts also as a channel to convey
the full force of the blast. Climate everywhere is a very local thing; topographical considerations
often altogether outweigh geographical; and nowhere is this truer than in Alaska. Commanding
sites are necessarily exposed sites, and he who would dwell in comfort must build in seclusion.

A native village of eighty or ninety souls, with its church and school, lies three miles up-stream
from the town, so that the relative positions of village, town, and military post exactly duplicate
those at Tanana. It must at once be stated, however, that this situation has not led to anything
like the demoralisation amongst the natives at Eagle that thrusts itself into notice at the
other place. Whether it were the longer training in Christian morals that lay behind these
people, or better hap in the matter of post commanders (certainly there was never such scandalous
irregularity and indifference at Egbert as marked one administration at Gibbon), or the vigilance
during a number of consecutive years of an especially active deputy marshal and the wisdom
and concern through an even longer period of a commissioner much above the common stamp,[F]
or all these causes combined, the natives at Eagle have not suffered from the proximity of
soldiers and civilians in the same measure as the natives at Tanana. Drunkenness and debauchery
there have been again and again, but they have been severely checked and restrained by both
the civil and military authorities.

It was pleasant during Holy Week and Easter to see so many of the enlisted men of the garrison
taking part in the services in town; pleasant, especially, to see officers and men singing
together in the choir, a tribute to the tact and zeal of the earnest layman in charge of this
mission; and it was pleasant at the village to hear the native liturgy again and to see old
men and women following the lessons in the native Bible.

[Sidenote: FORT EGBERT ABANDONED]

Fort Egbert is abandoned now, another addition to the melancholy of the Yukon; its extensive
buildings, barracks, and officers' quarters, post-exchange and commissariat, hospital, sawmill,
and artisans' shops, a spacious, complete gymnasium only recently built, are all vacant and
deserted. In the yards lie three thousand cords of dry wood, a year's supply; cut on the hills,
awaiting the expected annual contracts, lie as many more--six thousand cords of wood left to
rot! Some of us perverse "conservationists," upon whom the unanimous Alaskan press delights
to pour scorn, lament the trees more than the troops.

One may write thus and yet have many pleasant personal associations with the post and those
who have lived there. A large and varied military acquaintanceship is acquired by regular visits
to these Alaskan forts, for the whole command changes every two years. If one stayed in the
country long enough one would get to know the whole United States army, as regiment after regiment
spent its brief term of "foreign service" in the North. Gazing upon the empty quarters, the
occasion of my first visit came back vividly, when there was diphtheria amongst the natives
at Circle and none to cope with it save the missionary nurse. The civil codes containing no
provision for quarantine, the United States commissioner at Circle could not help, and the
Indians grew restive and rebellious, and when Christmas came broke through the restrictions
completely. Even some of the whites of the place defied her prohibition and attended native
dances and encouraged the Indians in their self-willed folly.

[Sidenote: SOME ARMY OFFICERS]

So I went up the week's journey to Eagle and sought assistance from Major Plummer, the officer
commanding the post, who, after telegraphing to Washington, promptly despatched a hospital
steward and a couple of soldiers, and placed them entirely at the nurse's disposal. "I don't
think we have any law for it," he said, "but we'll bluff it out." And bluff it out they did
very effectively until the disease was stamped out, and then they thoroughly disinfected and
whitewashed every cabin that had been occupied by the sick. I used to tell that nurse that,
so far as I knew, she was the only woman who had ever had command of United States soldiers.

Then there was Captain Langdon of the same regiment, the scholarly soldier, with the account
of every great campaign in history at his fingers' ends. I recollect one evening, when we had
been talking of the Peninsular War, I ventured to spring on him the ancient schoolboy conundrum:
"What lines are those, the most famous ever made by an Englishman, yet that are never quoted?"
"Lines?" said he, "lines?" though I don't think he had ever heard the jest. "They must be the
Lines of Torres Vedras." How well I remember the musical box that used to arouse me at seven
in the morning, however late we had sat talking the night before!

And that young lieutenant, of wealthy New York people, just arrived from West Point, who was
sent by another commandant to report upon the condition of the natives at the village and who
came back and reported the whole population in utter destitution and recommended the issue
of free rations to them all! As a matter of fact, during the administration of this commanding
officer, some sixteen or eighteen persons were put upon the list for gratuitous grub, and it
took a written protest to get them off. For no one who has the welfare of the natives at heart
can tolerate the notion of making them paupers; these who have always fended abundantly for
themselves, and can entirely do so yet. With free rations there would be no more hunting, no
more trapping, no more fishing; and a hardy, self-supporting race would sink at once to sloth
and beggary and forget all that made men of them. If it were designed to destroy the Indian
at a blow, here is an easy way to do it. Yet there are some, obsessed with the craze about
what is called education, regarding it as an end in itself and not as a means to any end, who
recommend this pauperising because it would permit the execution of a compulsory school-attendance
law. Or is it a personal delusion of mine that esteems an honest, industrious, self-supporting
Indian who cannot read and write English above one who can read and write English--and can
do nothing else--and so separates me from many who are working amongst the natives?

These days at the end of March, when the sun shines more than twelve hours in the twenty-four,
are too long for the ordinary winter day's twenty-five miles or so, and yet not quite long
enough, even if man and dogs could stand it, to double the stage; so that there is much daylight
leisure at road-houses. One grows anxious, after four months on the trail, to be done with
it; to draw as quickly as may be to one's "thawing-out" place. One even becomes a little impatient
of the continual dog talk and mining talk of the road-houses, to which one has listened all
the winter. On the other hand, the travelling is very pleasant and the going usually very good,
so that one may often ride on the sled for long stretches.

By river and portage--one portage that comes so finely down to the Yukon from a bench that
there is pleasure in anticipating the view it affords--in two days we reached the Nation road-house,
just below the mouth of the Nation River, a name that has always puzzled me. Here all night
long the wolves howling around the carcass of a horse kept our dogs awake, and the whimpering
of the dogs kept us awake. The country beyond the Yukon to the northeast, the large area included
between the Yukon and the Porcupine, into which the Nation River offers passage, is one of
the wildest and least known portions of Alaska, abounding in game and beasts of prey.

[Sidenote: THE GLARE OF THE SUN]

At the Charley River we visited the native village and held service and instruction as well
as inadequate interpretation permitted. Round Coal Creek and Woodchopper Creek the scenery
becomes bold and attractive, but we found, as usual, that as we pushed farther and farther
down the river the snow was deeper and the going not so good. The sun grows very bright upon
the snow these days of late March and early April. Even through heavily tinted glasses it inflames
the eyes more or less, and a couple of hours without protection would bring snow-blindness.
Bright days at this season are the only days in all the year when the camera shutter may be
used at its full speed. When the sun comes out after a flurry of new snow in April, the light
is many times greater than in midsummer.

We reached Circle in a day and a half from Woodchopper Creek, in time to spend Sunday there.
Circle had not changed much in the five years that had elapsed since the first visit to it
mentioned in these pages. The slender trellis of the wireless telegraph had added a prominent
feature to its river bank; a few more empty cabins had been torn down for fire-wood. Here it
was necessary to shoot the Great Dane pup we got at the Salchaket. His feet were still very
sore and he quite useless for the next winter, while Doc was returned to me from Fairbanks,
not much the worse for his severe frost-bite. Indian after Indian begged for the dog, but I
had more regard for him than to turn him over to the tender mercies of an Indian. There are
exceptional Indians, but for my part I would rather be a dead dog than an ordinary Indian's
dog--so he died.

There remained the seventy-five or eighty miles through the Yukon Flats to Fort Yukon--always
the most dangerous stretch of the river, and at this season, when the winter's trail was beginning
to break up, particularly so. It would be entirely practicable to cut a land trail that should
not touch the river at all, or not at more than one point, between Circle and Fort Yukon, and
such a portage besides removing all the danger would save perhaps twenty miles. In many places
it was necessary for one of us to go ahead with an axe, constantly sounding and testing the
ice. Here and there we made a circuit around open water into which the ice that bore the trail
had collapsed bodily--one of them a particularly ugly place, with black water twenty feet deep
running at six or seven miles an hour. I never pass this stretch of river without a feeling
of gratitude that I am safely over it once more.

[Sidenote: CAPTAIN AMUNDSEN]

As we left the Halfway Island we passed an Indian from Fort Yukon going up the river with dogs
and toboggan, and I chuckled, as I returned his very polite salutation and shook hands with
him, at the success of the way he had been dealt with the previous fall, for he had been a
particularly churlish fellow with an insolent manner. Six or seven years before he had been
taken by Captain Amundsen, of the Gjoa, as guide along this stretch of the river. It will be
remembered that when that skilful and fortunate navigator had reached Herschell Island from
the east, he left his ship in winter quarters and made a rapid journey with Esquimaux across
country to Fort Yukon expecting to find a telegraph station there from which he could send
word of his success. But to his disappointment he found it necessary to go two hundred and
thirty miles farther up the river to Eagle, before he could despatch his message. So he left
his Esquimaux at Fort Yukon and took this Indian as guide. And in his modest and most interesting
book he mentions the man's surliness and says he was glad to get rid of him at Circle.

Some new outbreak of insolence for which he had been flung out of a store decided that he must
be dealt with, and I sent for him, for the chief, the native minister, and the interpreter.
With these assessors beside me, and Captain Amundsen's book open on the table, I spoke to the
man of his general conduct and reputation. I read the derogatory remark about him in the book
"printed for all the world to read," and told him that of all the people, white and native,
the captain had met on his journeys, only one was spoken of harshly and he was the one. It
made a great impression on the man. The chief and the native minister followed it up with their
harangues, and the net result was a thorough change in his whole attitude and demeanour. He
told us he felt the shame of being held up to the world as rude and impudent and would try
to amend. He has tried so successfully that he is now one of the politest and most courteous
Indians in the village, for which, if this should ever chance to reach Captain Amundsen's eye,
I trust he will accept our thanks.

Fort Yukon, where the headquarters of the archdeaconry of the Yukon are now fixed, grows in
native population and importance. A new and sightly church, a new schoolhouse, a new two-story
mission house, a medical missionary and a nurse in residence, as well as a native clergyman,
mark the Indian metropolis of this region and perhaps of all interior Alaska. Self-government
is fostered amongst the people by a village council elected annually, that settles native troubles
and disputes and takes charge of movements for the general good, and of the relief of native
poverty. The resident physician has been appointed justice of the peace and there is effort
to enforce the law of the land at a place where every man has been a law unto himself. But
it is a very slow and difficult matter to enforce law in this country at all, and more particularly
at these remote points; and the class of white men who are to be found around native villages,
many of whom "fear not God neither regard man," pursue their debauchery and deviltry long time
unwhipped.

FOOTNOTE:

[F] I take pleasure in naming Mr. U. G. Myers as the United States commissioner in question
and Mr. Jack Robinson as the deputy United States marshal, and I mention their names the more
readily because Mr. Myers, after his long and excellent service, has just been removed for
political reasons. It is characteristic of a gold discovery in a new district that it sets
men feverishly to work prospecting all the adjacent country, and sends them as far afield from
it as the new base of supplies will allow them to stretch their tether. A glance at the map
will show that the Innoko and Iditarod country lies between the two great rivers of Alaska,
the Yukon and the Kuskokwim, much lower down the Yukon than any of the earlier gold discoveries;
that is to say that while the Tanana gold fields lie off the Middle Yukon, the Circle fields
off the upper Yukon, the Iditarod camp belongs to the lower river. The Innoko workings were
not extensive nor very rich, but they furnished a base for prospecting from which the Iditarod
was reached, and Flat Creek, in the latter district, promised to be wonderfully rich. Immediately
upon the news of this strike reaching the other camps of the interior, preparations were made
far and wide for migrating thither upon the opening of Yukon navigation, and the early summer
of 1910 saw a wild stampede to the Iditarod. Saloon-keepers, store-keepers, traders of all
kinds, and the rag-tag and bobtail that always flock to a new camp were on the move so soon
as the ice went out. From Dawson, from the Fortymile, from Circle, from Fairbanks, from the
Koyukuk, and as soon as Bering Sea permitted, from Nome, all sorts of craft bore all sorts
of people to the new Eldorado, while the first through steamboats from the outside were crowded
with people from the Pacific coast eager to share in the opportunity of wealth. The sensational
magazines had been printing article after article about "The incalculable riches of Alaska,"
and here were people hoping to pick some of it up. Iditarod City sprang into life as the largest
"city" of the interior; the centre of gravity of the population of the interior of Alaska was
shifted a thousand miles in a month.

Iditarod City furnished a new and large base of supplies. Amidst the heterogeneous mass of
humanity that swarmed into the place, though by no means the largest element in it, were experienced
prospectors from every other district in Alaska. Under the iniquitous law that then prevailed
and has only recently been modified, by which there was no limit at all to the number of claims
in a district which one man could stake for himself and others, every creek adjacent to Flat
Creek, every creek for many miles in every direction, had long since been tied up by the men
with lead-pencils and hatchets. So the newly arrived prospectors must spread out yet wider,
and they were soon scattered over all the rugged hundred miles between Iditarod City and the
Kuskokwim River. Here and there they found prospects; and here and there what promised to be
"pay." They started a new town, Georgetown, on the Kuskokwim itself; another town sprang up
on the Takotna, a tributary of the Kuskokwim; and the great Commercial Company of Alaska, ever
alert for new developments, put a steamboat on the Kuskokwim and built trading-posts at both
these points. Thus the Kuskokwim country, which for long had been one of the least-known portions
of Alaska, was opened up almost at a stroke.

[Sidenote: CAMP AT 50° BELOW]

It was my purpose to visit Iditarod City during the winter of 1910-11, although, by reason
of the distance to be travelled, a journey thither would involve the omission of the customary
winter visit to upper Yukon points. When the northern trip to the Koyukuk was returned from
at Tanana, a sad journey had to be made to Nenana to bury the body of Miss Farthing, and Doctor
Loomis, missionary physician at Tanana, who accompanied me on this errand, had almost as rough
a breaking-in to the Alaska trail as we came back to Tanana again as Doctor Burke had in our
journey over the "first ice" of the Koyukuk two years before. Two feet of new snow lay on the
trail, and the thermometer went down to 60° below zero. We were camped once on the mail trail,
unable to reach a road-house, at 50° below zero.

[Sidenote: THE ROUTE TO THE IDITAROD]

From Tanana the beaten track to the Iditarod lay one hundred and sixty miles down the Yukon
to Lewis's Landing, and then across country by the Lewis Cut-Off one hundred miles to Dishkaket
on the Innoko, and thence across country another hundred miles to Iditarod City. But I designed
to penetrate to the Iditarod by another route. I had long desired to visit Lake Minchúmina
and its little band of Indians, and to pass through the upper Kuskokwim country. So I had engaged
a Minchúmina Indian as a guide, and laid my course up the Tanana River to the Coschaket, and
then due south across country to Lake Minchúmina and the upper Kuskokwim.

The Cosna is a small stream confluent with the Tanana, about thirty miles above the mouth of
that river, and we had hoped to reach it by the river trail upon the same day we left the mission
at Tanana, the 18th of February, 1911. But the trail was too heavy and the going too slow and
the start too late. When we had reached Fish Creek, about half-way, it was already growing
dark, and we were glad to stop in a native cabin, where was an old widow woman with a blind
daughter. The daughter, unmarried, had a little baby, and I inquired through Walter who the
father was and whether the girl had willingly received the man or if he had taken advantage
of her blindness. She named an unmarried Indian, known to me, and declared that she had not
been consenting. It seemed a paltry and contemptible trick to take advantage of a fatherless
blind girl. I baptized the baby and resolved to make the man marry the girl.

The next night we reached the Coschaket, which, following the Indian rule, means "mouth of
the Cosna," and found that our guide, Minchúmina John, had already relayed a load of grub that
Walter had previously brought here from Tanana, one day's march upon our journey. Our course
from the Coschaket left the Tanana River and struck across country by an old Indian trail that
had not been used that winter. Through scrubby spruce and over frozen lakes and swamps, crossing
the Cosna several times--a narrow little river with high steep banks--the trail went, until
it brought us to a hunting camp of the Indians, about eighteen miles from the Coschaket. Here
our stuff was cached and here we spent the night, doctoring the sick amongst them as well as
we could. My eyes had been sorely tried this day despite dark smoked glasses, for we were travelling
almost due south, and the sun was now some hours in the sky and yet low enough to shine right
in one's face. So Walter stopped at a birch-tree, stripped some of the bark, and made an eye-shade
that was a great comfort and relief.

From this place began the slow work of double-tripping. The unbroken snow was too deep to permit
the hauling of our increased load over it without a preliminary breaking out of a trail on
snow-shoes. So camp was left standing and Walter and John went ahead all day and returned late
at night with eight or nine miles of trail broken, while I stayed in camp and had dog feed
cooked and supper ready. The next day we advanced the camp so far as the trail was broken.
A moose had used the trail for some distance, however, since the boys left it, and his great
plunging hoofs had torn up the snow worse than a horse would have done.

A driving wind and heavy snowfall had drifted the new trail in the night so badly, moreover,
that we were not able to cover the full stretch that had been snow-shoed, but camped in the
dusk after we had gone eight miles. Eight miles in two days was certainly very poor travel,
and at this rate our supplies would never take us down to the forks of the Kuskokwim. Yet there
was no other way in which we could proceed. The weather was exceedingly mild, too mild for
comfort--the thermometer ranging from 20° to 25° above--and the dogs felt the unseasonable
warmth. It took us all that week to make the watershed between the drainage of the Tanana and
the drainage of the Kuskokwim, a point about half-way to Lake Minchúmina. One day trail was
broken, the next day the loads went forward. Tie the dogs as securely as one would, it was
not safe to go off and leave our supplies exposed to the ravages that a broken chain or a slipped
collar might bring, so two went forward and I sat down in camp. The boys on their return usually
brought with them a few brace of ptarmigan or grouse or spruce hen or, at the least, a rabbit
or so.

[Sidenote: THE CAMP-ROBBERS]

The camp-robbers, to my mind the most interesting of Alaskan birds, became very friendly and
tame on these vigils. They stay in the country all the winter, when most birds have migrated,
like prosperous mine owners, to less rigorous climates; they turn up everywhere, in the most
mysterious way, so soon as one begins to make any preparation for camping, and they are bold
and fearless and take all sorts of chances. On this journey more than once they alighted on
a moving sled and pecked at the dried fish that happened to be exposed. Yet they are so alert
and so quick in their movements that it would be difficult to catch them were they actually
under one's hand. One of them, during a long day in camp, grew so tame that it pecked crumbs
off the toe of my moccasin, and in another day or two would, one feels sure, have eaten out
of the hand. There is a curious belief, strongly intrenched in the Alaskan mind, that the nest
of this most common bird has never been found, and that the Smithsonian Institution has a standing
offer of a large sum of money for the discovery. They build in the spruce-trees, ten or twelve
feet above the ground, a nest of rough twigs, and lay five very small eggs, grey spotted with
black. This, at any rate, is the description that Walter gives me of a nest he discovered with
the bird sitting upon it, and I have found the boy's accounts of such matters entirely trustworthy.
It is curious, however, that the nest of a bird so common all over Alaska as the camp-robber
should be so rarely found. At times they are very mischievous and destructive, and the man
who builds a careless cache will often be heard denouncing them, but to my mind a bird who
gives us his enlivening company throughout the dead of an Alaskan winter deserves what pickings
he can get.

[Sidenote: SOFT WEATHER]

On Saturday, the 25th of February, after climbing a rather stiff hill, we passed temporarily
out of Yukon into Kuskokwim waters, for the tributaries of these two great drainage systems
interlock in these hills. At the foot of the hill we stopped for lunch, a roaring fire was
soon built, and a great cube of beaten snow impaled upon a stake was set up before the fire
to drip into a pan for tea water, while the boys roasted rabbits. In a few hours more we were
on the banks of one of the tributaries of the East Fork (properly the North Fork) of the Kuskokwim.
Here, in an unoccupied native cabin, we made our camp and lay over Sunday, and here began the
most remarkable spell of weather I have known in the interior at this season of the year. The
thermometer rose to 37° and then to 40°; the snow everywhere was thawing, and presently it
began to rain steadily. It was the first time I had seen a decided thaw in February, let alone
rain.

Next day the rain turned to snow, but since the thermometer still stood around 40°, the snow
melted as it fell, and we were wet through all day. The snow underfoot, however, was so much
less and so much harder that we were able to proceed without preliminary trail breaking. But
it was a most disagreeable day and the prelude to a more disagreeable night. Soft, wet snow
clings to everything it touches. The dogs are soon carrying an additional burden; balls of
snow form on all projecting tufts of hair; masses of snow must continually be beaten off the
sled. Every time a snow-shoe is lifted from the ground it lifts a few pounds of snow with it.
One's moccasins and socks are soon wet through, and the feet, encased in this sodden cold covering,
grow numb and stay so. We crossed a considerable mountain pass in driving snow, and should
never have found the way without John, for much of it was above timber, and when it took us
through woods the blazes on the trees were so bleached with age as to be difficult of recognition.
The Indians have used this trail for generations; but few white men have ever passed along it.

Wet snow, wet spruce boughs, wet tent, wet wood, wet clothing make poor camping. Water-proof
equipment is so rarely needed on the winter trail that one does not bother with it. But the
climate of the Kuskokwim valley is evidently different from that of the rest of the interior,
if, as John said, such weather is not remarkable in these parts at this season. A third day
was of much the same description; thawing and heavily snowing all day, the thermometer between
36° and 40°. The labour of going ahead of the teams and breaking trail, on the snow-shoes,
through slush, grew so great that I relinquished it to John and took the handle-bars of his
sled. We were approaching Lake Minchúmina, but the hills that led us into Yukon waters once
more and should have given us views of the lake and the great mountains beyond gave nothing.
It is a keen disappointment to be utterly denied great views, the expectation of which has
been a support through long distances and fatigues.

At noon we built a fire with considerable difficulty, but once it was started we plied it with
fuel till we had a noble, roaring bonfire, and we hung our wet socks and moccasins and parkees
and caps and mitts around it and stayed there until they were dry, though the resumption of
our journey in the continuous melting snow soon wet everything through again.

[Sidenote: LAKE MINCHÚMINA]

At length, late in the evening of the 28th of February, we descended a long ridge and came
upon the northeastern shore of Lake Minchúmina, one of the most considerable lakes of interior
Alaska. It stretched its broad expanse away into the misty distance, the farther shore quite
invisible, the snow driving slowly over it, and it looked as though we had stumbled by mistake
upon the shores of the Arctic Ocean. There was no sort of trail upon it and the snow-shoes
sank through the melting snow of its surface into the water that lay upon the ice and brought
up a load of slush at every step; yet the going would have been still worse without them. The
recollection of the six miles we trudged across that lake is a dismal recollection of utter
fatigue, of mechanical lifting and falling of encumbered feet with the recurring feeling that
it would be impossible to lift them any more. All across that lake I ate snow, and that and
the back-ache legacy of an old strain are my signs of approaching exhaustion. Four hours passed
ere we heard the noise of dogs and saw the glimmer of a light through the darkness, and the
hearts of men and beasts alike leaped to the expectation of rest and shelter. We had feared
the village might be deserted and were rejoiced that the Indians were still there.

Never was hospitality more grateful than that we had from the little remote band of natives
at the Minchúmina village. They made a pot of tea and fried some flap-jacks for us, and that
was our supper, though I think the boys ate some boiled moose meat from a pot on the stove.
We had plenty of grub, but were too weary to cook it; we spread our bedding down on the floor
amongst a dozen others and fell almost at once into a deep sleep. Almost at once; for the arrival
of our eight dogs had made a commotion amongst the canine population of the place, that after
repeated outbreaks of noisy animosity and defiance seemed to turn by common consent into a
friendly and most protracted howling contest in which my malamute "Muk" plainly outdid all
competitors. How much longer the noise would have kept up it is hard to say--dogs never seem
too tired to howl--but when the limit of Indian patience was reached, an aged crone rolled
out of the bed into which she had rolled "all standing," seized a staff and went outdoors to
lay it impartially upon the backs of all the disturbers of the peace, domestic and foreign,
with a screech that was as formidable as the blows. The rest was silence.

The next morning a dozen alarm-clocks went off within a few minutes of each other. Every adult
in that cabin owned a separate alarm-clock, and rose, one supposes, to the summons of no other
timepiece. At any rate, the clocks went off at intervals, and the natives arose one by one
and seemed hugely to enjoy the clatter. Let one purchase a new thing and every individual in
the community must have one also.

But what struck me instantly upon arising was the miraculous transformation that had taken
place outdoors. The sun was shining brilliantly through a clear sky! I hastened to dress and,
not waiting for breakfast, seized my camera and started out. The chinook was over; the sharp,
welcome tang of frost was in the air; the snow was hard underfoot. Out upon the gleaming surface
of the lake I went for nigh a mile, resolutely refusing to look behind. I knew what vision
awaited me when I turned around, had, indeed, caught a slight glimpse as I left the cabin,
and I wanted the smooth, open foreground of the lake that I might see it to the best advantage.

[Sidenote: DENALI AND HIS WIFE]

There is probably no other view of North America's greatest mountain group comparable to that
from Lake Minchúmina. From almost every other coign of vantage in the interior I had seen it
and found it more or less unsatisfying. Only from distant points like the Pedro Dome or the
summit between Rampart and Glen Gulch does the whole mass and uplift of it come into view with
dignity and impressiveness. At close range the peaks seem stunted and inconspicuous, their
rounded, retreating slopes lacking strong lines and decided character. But from the lake the
precipitous western face of Denali and Denali's Wife rise sheer, revealed by the level foreground
of the snow from base to summit. It was, indeed, a glorious scene. There stood the master peak,
seeming a stupendous vertical wall of rock rising twenty thousand feet to a splendid sharp
crest perhaps some forty or fifty miles away; there, a little farther to the south, rose the
companion mass, a smaller but still enormous elevation of equally savage inaccessibility; while
between them, near the base, little sharp peaks stretched like a corridor of ruined arches
from mass to mass. One was struck at once by the simple appropriateness of the native names
for these mountains. The master peak is Denali--the great one; the lesser peak is Denali's
Wife; and the little peaks between are the children. And my indignation kindled at the substitution
of modern names for these ancient mountain names bestowed immemorially by the original inhabitants
of the land! Is it too late to strike Mount McKinley and Mount Foraker from the map? The names
were given fifteen or sixteen years ago only, by one who saw them no nearer than a hundred
miles. Is it too late to restore the native names contemptuously displaced?

The majesty of the scene grew upon me as I gazed, and presently hand went to camera that some
record of it might be attempted. But alas for the limitations of photography! I knew, even
as I made the exposures, first at one one-hundredth of a second and then at one-fiftieth, that
there was little hope of securing a picture; the air was yet faintly hazy with thin vapour;
the early sun made too acute an angle with the peaks; and the yellow lens screen was left in
the hind-sack of the sled. It was even as I feared. When developed some months later, the film
held absolutely no trace of the mighty mountains that had risen so proudly before it. I promised
myself that at noon, when the sun had removed to a greater distance from the mountains and
made a more favourable angle with them, I would return and try again; but by noon had come
another sudden, violent change of the weather, and snow was falling once more.

[Sidenote: THE MINCHÚMINA FOLK]

So I got no picture, save the picture indelibly impressed upon my memory, of the noblest mountain
scene I had ever gazed upon which made memorable this 1st of March; perhaps one of the noblest
mountain scenes in the whole world, for one does not recall another so great uplift from so
low a base. The marshy, flat country that stretches from Minchúmina to the mountains cannot
be much more than one thousand feet above the sea. Those awful precipices dropping thousands
of feet at a leap, those peaks rising serene and everlasting into the highest heaven, the overwhelming
size and strength and solidity of their rocky bulk, all this sank into my heart, and there
sprang up once again the passionate desire of exploring the bowels of them, of creeping along
their glaciers and up their icy ridges, of penetrating their hidden chambers, inviolate since
the foundation of the world, and maybe scaling their ultimate summits and looking down upon
all the earth even as they look down!

Men, however, and not mountains, made the immediate demand upon one's interest and attention,
and I returned to breakfast and the duties of the day. The Minchúmina people are a very feeble
folk, some sixteen all told at the time of our visit, greatly reduced by the epidemics of the
last decade, living remote from all others on the verge of their race's habitat. They trade
chiefly at Tanana, a hundred and thirty miles or so away, walking an annual trip thither with
their furs, and owning a nominal allegiance to our mission at that place. It was the first
time that any clergyman had ever visited them, and the whole of the day was spent with them,
discovering what they knew and trying to teach them a little more. The people sat around on
the floor and hung upon the lips of the interpreter. But what a barrier a difference of language
is! An interpreter is like a mountain pass, a means of access but at the cost of time and labour.
He does not remove the obstruction. The Minchúmina people occupy a fine country that could
amply support ten times the Indian population that now inhabits it. We were, indeed, now entering
a country that has been almost depopulated by successive epidemics of contagious diseases.
The measles in 1900 slew most of them, and diphtheria in 1906 destroyed all the children and
many of the adults that remained. The chief of this little band wore a hat proudly adorned
with ribbons and plumes, and flew a flag before his dwelling with the initials of the North
American Trading and Transportation Company on it--a defunct Alaskan corporation. We could
not learn the origin thereof; the flag and the letters were plainly home-made. It was probably
a mere imitation of a flag he had seen years ago at Tanana, copied without knowledge of the
meaning of the letters, as the Esquimaux often copy into the decoration of their clothing and
equipment the legends from canned foods.

Lake Minchúmina drains by a fork of the Kantishna River into the Tanana and so into the Yukon.
Just beyond the southwestern edge of the lake runs a deep gully for perhaps a mile that leads
to another lake called Tsórmina, which drains into Minchúmina. And just beyond Tsórmina is
a little height of land, on the other side of which lies Lake Sishwóymina, which drains into
the Kuskokwim. So that little height of land is another watershed between Alaska's two great
rivers. Lakes Tsórmina and Sishwóymina are not on any maps; indeed, this region has never been
mapped save very crudely from the distant flanks of Denali upon one of Alfred Brook's early
bold journeys into the interior of Alaska on behalf of the Geological Survey. Although the
Russians had establishments on the lower Kuskokwim seventy-five years ago, and the river is
the second largest in Alaska and easy of navigation, yet the white man had penetrated very
little into this country until the Innoko and Iditarod "strikes" of 1908 and 1909 respectively.

It was our plan to follow the main valley of the Kuskokwim until the confluence of the Takotna
with that stream, just below the junction of the main North and South Forks of the Kuskokwim,
and then strike northwestward across country to the Iditarod.

The snow had passed and the sun was bright and the thermometer around zero all day when we
left Minchúmina to pursue our journey. The welcome change in the weather had brought a still
more welcome change in travel. The decided and continued thaw followed by sharp cold had put
a crust on the snow that would hold up the dogs and the sled and a man on small trail snow-shoes
anywhere. Trail making was no longer necessary, and in two days we made upward of fifty miles.
So much difference does surface make.

[Sidenote: TALIDA]

Across the end of Lake Minchúmina, across Tsórmina and Sishwóymina and a number of lesser lakes
we went, following a faint show-shoe trail towards a distant mountain group to the southwest,
the Talida Mountains, at the foot of which lay the Talida village. On the other hand, to the
east and southeast, we had tantalising glimpses through haze and cloud of the two great mountains,
and presently of the lesser peaks of the whole Alaskan range, sweeping its proud curve to the
coast. For a long way on the second day we travelled on the flat top of a narrow ridge that
must surely have been a lateral moraine of a glacier, what time the ice poured down from the
heights and stretched far over this valley--then through scattered timber, increasing in size
and thickness and already displaying character that differed somewhat from the familiar forests
of the Yukon. The show-shoe trail we were following was made by a messenger despatched by the
Minchúmina people to invite the Talida people to a potlatch; for the caches were filled with
moose meat beyond local consumption. Early on the second day we met him returning and learned
that he had gone on to yet another village a day's journey farther, still on our route.

The people were all gone hunting from the tiny native hamlet of Talida, but we entered a cabin
and made ourselves at home. We had passed into the region where the Greek Church holds nominal
sway, of which the icons with little candles before them on the walls gave token. No priest
ever visits them, but a native at a village on the south fork where is a church holds some
position analogous to that of a lay reader. The nearest priest is a half-breed, ill spoken
of for irregularity of life, some two hundred miles farther down the river. The Greek Church
is relaxing its hold in Alaska, perhaps inevitably, and suffers sadly since the removal of
the bishop from Sitka from lack of supervision. Also we had passed out of Indian country into
the land of the Esquimaux, for these people, far up towards the head of the river as they were,
had yet come at some period from the mouth. We were out of Walter's language range now, and
were glad that the bilingual John of the march country was with us to serve as interpreter.

Standing proudly up against the wall in one corner of the cabin was a rather pathetic object
to my eyes--an elaborate gilt-handled silk umbrella. There needed no one to tell its story;
it spoke of a visit to the Yukon with furs to sell and the usual foolish purchase of gay and
glittering trash--novel and quite useless. What easy prey these poor people are to the wiles
of the trader! Said one of them to me recently, when I asked the purpose of an "annex" to his
store with a huge billiard-table in it--at an exclusive native village--"It's to get their
money; there's no use trying to fool you; if we can't get it one way we've got to get it another."
This gorgeous silk umbrella was concrete expression of the same sentiment. It was bought outside,
it was brought into the country, it was set on exhibition in the store, because some trader
judged it likely to attract a native eye. No one, white or native, uses an umbrella in interior
Alaska.

We made twenty-five miles the next day through a wide, open country, well wooded in places
with a park-like distribution of trees, unwonted in our travels and attractive. A new species
of spruce threw thick branches right down to the ground and tapered up to a perfect cone; each
tree apart from the others and surrounded by sward instead of underbrush. There was a dignity
about these trees that the common Yukon spruce never attains. Rolling hills of small elevation
stretched on either hand and game signs abounded. After eight hours of such travel we spoke
of camping, but presently saw footprints in the snow and pushed on to the bank of a little
river, the Chedolothna, where stood a cabin, a tent, and several high caches. Here, with two
families that occupied the cabin, we stayed the night.

[Sidenote: MEASLES AND DIPHTHERIA]

Six people at this place, six at Talida, sixteen at Minchúmina, make up all the population
of a region perhaps a hundred and fifty miles square. Yet it is a noble Indian country, one
of the most favourable in all the interior, capable of supporting hundreds of people. Signs,
indeed, of a much larger occupation of it were not wanting, and all accounts speak of the wholesale
destruction of the natives by disease. We were told of a village a little farther up this stream
where every living being, save one old man, died of diphtheria five years previously, while
those who have heard the stories of the horrors of the epidemic of measles in 1900, usually
connected in some way with the stampede to Nome of that year when the disease seems to have
entered the country, will understand how a region once thickly peopled, for Alaska, has become
the most thinly peopled in all the territory.

A half-breed trader, long resident at a point perhaps two hundred miles lower down the Kuskokwim,
told me of coming back to a populous village after an absence of a few weeks, to find every
person dead and the starving dogs tearing at the rotting corpses. It is terrible to think what
the irruption of a new disease may mean to these primitive natives. Even a disease like measles,
rarely fatal and not commonly regarded as serious amongst whites, takes to itself a strange
and awful virulence when it invades this virgin blood. The people know no proper treatment;
maddened by the itching rash that covers the body, they fling off all cover, rush outdoors
naked, whatever the weather, and either roll in the snow or plunge into the stream; with the
result that the disease "strikes in" and kills them. Such is the description that is given
of its course along the lower Yukon and Kuskokwim. At many a Yukon village half the people
died, despite the aid the few missionaries then on the river could afford; upon the Kuskokwim
the havoc seems to have been still greater. Six years later, death again stalked through this
region after having visited the Yukon, and this time seized his victims by the throat. In another
chapter has been given some account of an outbreak of diphtheria on the Chandalar, following
a more serious epidemic at Circle City and Fort Yukon. It was during that same winter the disease
raged in this region, remote from any sort of medical or even intelligent lay aid, and swept
off all the children that had been spared by the measles or had been born since that time.
At our next stopping-place we saw the graves of nineteen children who died in one day!

[Sidenote: THE INDIAN GUIDE]

We learned that we were now within one day's travel of a road-house, at or near the junction
of the forks of the Kuskokwim, and that a government trail had been surveyed and staked from
the Iditarod to the Sushitna, passing close to the same point, and that during the present
winter road-houses had sprung up along the western portion of it, so that we should not have
to make camp again on the way to Iditarod City. All of which Minchúmina John had collected
from the people in the cabin, and now presented to me as reason why he should be released from
further service. I was loath to let him go until we were actually at the road-house described,
but he wanted to go back to the lake for the potlatch then preparing, and said that two days'
delay would bar him from the best of the festivities.

So I settled with him, giving him fifty dollars of the sixty dollars covenanted to the Iditarod,
and grub enough to take him back to the lake, and a rifle, for he was unprovided with firearms,
and he went his way back, richly content, to the gorging of unlimited moose meat that awaited
him, and the boy and I went ours. So far as merely his company was concerned I was not sorry
to lose him. The old saying holds good upon the trail that "two is company and three is none."
He interfered with my boy's lessons. Since he had scarce any English, and could not be ignored,
the conversation was mainly in Indian. In a word he pulled the company down to a native level.
And I was anxious that Walter's education should proceed.

This boy had been with me for two years, winter and summer, and it was a great pleasure to
witness his gracious development of body, mind, and character. Clean-limbed, smooth-skinned,
slender, and supple, his Indian blood showing chiefly in a slight swarth of complexion and
aquilinity of feature, he now approached his twentieth year and began to gain the strength
of his manhood and to give promise of more than the average stature and physical power. With
only one full year's schooling behind him, the year before he came to me, his active intelligence
had made such quick use of it that there was good foundation to build upon; and our desultory
lessons in camp--reading aloud, writing from dictation, geography and history in such snippets
as circumstances permitted--were eagerly made the most of, and his mental horizon broadened
continually. Until his sixteenth year he had lived amongst the Indians almost exclusively and
had little English and could not read nor write. He was adept in all wilderness arts. An axe,
a rifle, a flaying knife, a skin needle with its sinew thread--with all these he was at home;
he could construct a sled or a pair of snow-shoes, going to the woods for his birch, drying
it and steaming it and bending it; and could pitch camp with all the native comforts and amenities
as quickly as anybody I ever saw. He spoke the naked truth, and was so gentle and unobtrusive
in manner that he was a welcome guest at the table of any mission we visited. Miss Farthing
at Nenana had laid her mark deep upon him in the one year he was with her.

[Sidenote: THE HALF-BREED]

Before he came to me I had another half-breed for two years, and before that there had been
a series of full-blooded native boys. I found the half-breed greatly preferable. With full
command of the native language, with such insight into the native mind as few white men ever
attain, he combines the white man's quickness of apprehension and desire for knowledge; and
the companionship had been pleasant and profitable. Both these boys had picked up quickly and
efficiently, without the slightest previous experience, the running and the care of the four-cylinder
gasoline engine of the mission launch, and took a great and intelligent interest in all machinery.
As an interpreter the half-breed is far superior to most full-bloods; he takes one's purport
immediately; his mind seems to leap with the speaker's mind, not only to follow faithfully
but to anticipate. And the further his English progresses, so much the more excellent interpreter
does he become.

My heart goes out to the large and rapidly increasing number of these youths of mixed blood
in Alaska. It is common to hear them spoken of slightingly and contemptuously. There is what
my mind always regards as a damnable epigram current in the country to the effect that the
half-breed inherits the vices of both races and the virtues of neither. The white man who utters
this saying with a chuckle at his second-hand wit has generally not much virtue to transmit,
were virtue heritable. But to thoughtful men nowadays this talk of the inheritance of virtues
and vices is mere folly. The half-breed in Alaska, as elsewhere, is the product of his environment.
Often without legitimate father--although in an Indian community, where nothing is secret,
his parentage is usually well known--he is left for some native woman to support with the aid
of her native husband. He is reared with the full-blooded offspring of the couple in the frankness
that knows no reserve and the intimacy that knows no restraint, of Indian life. The full extent
of that frankness and intimacy shocks even the loosest-living white man when he first becomes
aware of it. Where religion and decency have not been faithfully inculcated there is no bound
to it at all--it is complete. Presently, as his superior intellectual inheritance begins to
manifest itself, as he grows up into consciousness that he is different from, and in many ways
superior to, the Indians around him, he is naturally drawn to such white society as comes his way.

[Sidenote: THE LOW-DOWN WHITE]

In this book a good deal has been said, and, it may be thought by the reader, said with a good
deal of asperity, about the whites who frequent Indian communities and come most into contact
with the native people; yet the more the author sees of this class, the less is he disposed
to modify any of the strictures he has put upon it. "The Low-Down White" is the subject of
one of the most powerful and scathing of Robert Service's ballads, those most unequal productions
with their mixture of strength and feebleness, of true and forced notes, the best of which
should certainly live amongst the scant literature of the North. And, indeed, the spectacle
of the man of the higher race, with all the age-long traditions and habits of civilisation
behind him, descending below the level of the savage, corrupting and debauching the savage
and making this corrupting and debauching the sole exercise of his more intelligent and cultivated
mind, is one that has aroused the disgust and indignation of whites in all quarters of the
world. Kipling and Conrad have drawn him in the East; Robert Louis Stevenson in the South Sea
Islands; any army officer will draw him for you in the Philippines, which lack as yet their
great delineator; Service has not overdrawn him on the Yukon.

Now, it is to this man's society, for lack of other white society open to him, that the young
half-breed who feels his father's blood stirring within him is drawn and is made welcome. He
finds standards even lower, because more sophisticated, than the standards of the Indians themselves.
He finds that honesty and morality are a sham, religion a laughing-stock. He finds the chastity
of women and the honour of men sneeringly regarded as non-existent. He is taught to curse and
swear, to talk lewdly, to drink and gamble. He is taught that drunkenness and sensuality are
the only enjoyments worth looking forward to, and he soon becomes as vile as his preceptors.
The back room of the Indian trader's store is often the scene of this tuition--barroom, assignation
house, gambling hell in one. But let that same youth be taken early in hand by one who has
a care for him and will be at some personal pains to train him cleanly and uprightly, and he
is as amenable to the good influences as he would be to the bad if they were his sole environment.
Conscious all the time of his equivocal position, shy and timid about asserting himself amongst
whites, he is easy prey to the viciously as he is apt pupil to the virtuously disposed.

What is said here of the male half-breeds applies a fortiori to the female. Unless early taken
in hand by the missionary, or put under the protection of some church boarding-school--and
sometimes despite all such care and teaching--the lot of the half-breed girl is a sad one;
and some of the lowest and vilest women of the land are of mixed blood.

The half-breed is assuredly to be reckoned with in the future of Alaska. He is here to stay.
He is here in increasing numbers. He is the natural leader of the Indian population. There
seems little doubt that when he cares to assert his rights he is already an American citizen,
although judicial decisions are uncertain and conflicting in this matter.

The missions in the interior have recognised, though perhaps somewhat tardily, the importance
of the half-breeds, and have picked them up here and there along the rivers and become responsible
for their decent rearing. Some, assuredly, of the future leaders of the native people are now
in training at the mission schools. Some, unfortunately, are in quite as assiduous training
by the unscrupulous Indian trader and his coterie of low-down whites.

The skies had threatened snow since we arose, and when our diminished expedition was well upon
its way the snow began to fall. For thirty-six hours it fell without cessation. Three days
of good travel had put us forward seventy-five or eighty miles; now once more we were "up against"
deep snow and trail breaking. An old native whom we met on his way to the potlatch later in
the day spread out his hands with a look of despair and cried: "Good trail all lose'm!" All
day we pushed on against the driving storm, the flakes stinging our faces and striking painfully
against our eyeballs, now following a narrow steep woodland trail, now awhile along a creek
bed, now across open country with increasing difficulty in finding our way, until it grew dark
while yet we were some miles from our destination, and we made camp; and all night long the
heavy snow continued.

So soon as we had struck our tent, crusted with ice, and had broken up our wet camp next morning
there was trouble about finding the trail. Wide open spaces with never an indication of direction
stretched before us. Again and again we cast about, the boy to the left, I to the right, to
find some blaze or mark, but much of the course lay across open country that bore none. And
then I sorely regretted having let John go back. Some miles before we came to a stop the previous
evening, we passed a native encampment with naught but women and children in it--the men gone
hunting. But we could not speak with them or get any information from them, for our Kuskokwim
interpreter was gone. And now it seemed likely that we should lose our way in this wilderness.
At last we were entirely at a loss, the boy returning on the one side and I on the other from
wide detours, in which we had found no sign at all. The snow still fell heavily; there lay
more than a foot of it upon the late crust; trail or sign of a trail, on the snow or above
it, was not at all.

[Sidenote: THE DOG GUIDES]

Then occurred one of the most remarkable things I have known in all my journeyings. Straight
ahead in the middle distance I spied two stray dogs making a direct course towards us; not
wandering about, but evidently going somewhere. Now there are no such things as unattached
dogs in Alaska; any dog entirely detached from human ownership and some sort of human maintenance
would soon be a dead dog. The explanation, full of hope, sprang at once to the boy's mind.
The dogs must belong to the native encampment some six miles back, and they had been to the
road-house for what scraps they could pick up, and were returning. It was probably a daily
excursion and they had doubtless followed their accustomed trail. So it turned out. All the
way to that road-house, eight miles farther, we followed the trail left by those dogs, growing
fainter and fainter indeed as the new snow fell upon it, but still discernible until we had
almost reached the road-house. It led across open swampy wastes, and presently across two considerable
lakes, over which we should never have been able to find our way, for the trail swung to one
hand or the other and did not leave the lake in the same general direction by which it had
reached it. Walter cut a bundle of boughs and staked the trail out as we pursued it, lest we
should return this way, but from the moment we saw the dogs there was never any question about
the trail; they kept it perfectly. We were four and a half hours making the eight miles or
so to Nicoli's Village and the road-house, but we might have been days making it but for those
dogs. And at the road-house we learned that the boy's theory of their movements was the right
one. They came across the twelve or fourteen miles every day for such scraps as they could pick up.

[Sidenote: THE WILDERNESS POET]

So here was our first white man in sixteen days, an intelligent man of meagre education, with
a great bent for versifying. A courteous approval of one set of verse brought upon us the accumulated
output of years in the wilderness without much opportunity of audience, as one supposes, and
most of the afternoon and evening was thus spent. Amidst the overwrought sentimentality and
faulty scansion which marked most of the pieces was one simple little poem that struck a true
note, said its little say, and quit--without a superfluous word. Its author set no store by
it at all compared with his more pretentious and meretricious work; yet it was the one poem
in the whole mass. It described the writing of a letter to his father; he had spent all he
had in prospecting and working a small claim, and had just realised that a year's labour was
gone for naught. His father would worry if he got no word at all, but there was no use telling
the old man he was broke, so he just wrote that he was well, and that was all. The old man
would come pretty near understanding anyway. In simple lines that scanned and rhymed naturally,
that was what the three or four stanzas said. And it was so typical of many a man's situation
in this country, gave so simply and well the reason why many men cease writing to their relatives
at all, that it pleased me and seemed of value. That note came from the heart and from the
life's experience.

Nicoli's Village is a very small place with a mere handful of people, situated on the South
Fork of the Kuskokwim some forty miles by river above the junction of the forks. Before the
epidemics devastated it it had been a considerable native community. A Greek church, which
the natives built entirely themselves, and which boasted a large painted icon of sorts, was
the most important building in the place, and was served by the lay minister referred to before.
Thus far the Kuskokwim is navigable for vessels of light draught, and a small stern-wheel steamboat
lay wintering upon the bank.

[Sidenote: ROAD-HOUSES]

Our way now left the Kuskokwim and struck across country to a point just below the junction
of the forks, and then across country again to a tributary of the right bank, the Takotna;
with a general northerly direction. Road-houses there indeed were, in the crudity and discomfort
of their first season, and other evidences of the proximity of the white man. Here were two
men camped, hunting moose for the Iditarod market, more than a hundred and twenty-five miles
away, and here, at the end of the second day, near the mouth of the Takotna, was the new post
of the Commercial Company in the charge of an old acquaintance who welcomed us warmly and entertained
us most hospitably. After camping and road-house experience of nearly three weeks, a comfortable
bed and well-spread table, and the general unmistakable ménage of a home-making woman are very
highly enjoyed. That night the whole population of the settlement, fourteen persons, gathered
in the store for Divine service.

Sixteen miles farther on was another settlement, the "Upper Takotna" Post, with a rival company
established and some larger population. Here, also, we spent a night with old Fairbanks acquaintances.
We were yet a hundred miles from Iditarod City, and the trail lay over a very rugged, hilly
country, up one creek to its head, over a divide, and down another, in the way of the usual
cross-country traverse.

There had not been so much snowfall in this section, but the weather began to be very severe.
The thermometer fell to -45° and -50° and -55° on three successive nights, and all day long
rose not above -20°, with a keen wind. The cost of transporting supplies to the road-houses
on this trail justified the high prices charged--one dollar and a half for a poor meal of rabbits
and beans and bacon, or ptarmigan and beans and bacon, and one dollar for a lunch of coffee,
bread and butter, and dried fruit. But no such exigency could be pleaded to excuse the dirt
and discomfort and lack of the commonest provision of outhouse decency at most of these places--'twas
mere shiftlessness. There is not often much middle ground in Alaskan road-houses; they are
either very good in their way or very bad; either kept by professional victuallers who take
pride in them or by idle incompetents who make an easy living out of the necessities of travellers.
One wishes that some of the old-time travellers who used to wax so eloquently indignant over
the inns in the Pyrenees could make a winter journey in the interior of Alaska.

One thing pleased me at these road-houses. The only reading-matter in any of them consisted
of magazines bearing the rubber stamp of Saint Matthew's Reading-Room at Fairbanks, part of
a five-hundred-pound cargo of magazines which the mission launch Pelican brought to the Iditarod
the previous summer; virtually the only reading-matter in the whole camp. It was pleasant to
know that we had been able to avert the real calamity of a total absence of anything to read
for a whole winter throughout this wide district. But, although they were brought to the Iditarod
and distributed absolutely free, each of these magazines had cost the road-house keeper twenty-five
cents for carriage over the trail from Iditarod City, and they had been read to death. Some
of them were so black and greasy from continued handling that the print at the edges of the
pages was almost unreadable.

These creeks swarmed with ptarmigan, and it was well they did, for the new camp was ill supplied
with food, and we found ourselves in a region of growing scarcity as we approached the Iditarod.
The ptarmigan seem to have supplemented the meagre stocks in the Iditarod during this winter
of 1910-11 as effectively as the rabbits did in the Fairbanks camp in the scarce winter of
1904-5. In place after place the whole creek valley, where it was open, was crisscrossed with
ptarmigan tracks, and the birds rose in coveys, uttering their harsh, guttural cry at every
turn of the trail.

The summit between the head of Moose Creek and the head of Bonanza Creek is again a watershed
between the waters of the Kuskokwim and the waters of the Yukon; for Moose Creek is tributary
to the Takotna and Bonanza Creek is tributary to Otter Creek, which is tributary to the Iditarod
River. The "summit" is high above timber-line, and when the trail has reached it it does not
descend immediately but pursues a hogback ridge for a mile and a half at about the summit level.
We passed over it in clear, bright weather without difficulty, but it would be a bad passage
in wind or snow or fog. The rugged, broken country, with small, rounded domes of hills, stretched
away in all directions, a maze of little valleys threading in and out amongst them.

[Sidenote: PLACE-NAMES]

The Bonanza Creek road-house was by far the best of any between the Kuskokwim and the Iditarod,
and showed what can be done for comfort, even under adverse circumstances, by a couple who
care and try. But how the names of gold-bearing creeks, or creeks that are expected to be gold-bearing
are repeated again and again in every new camp! I once counted up the following list of mining
place-names in Alaska: Bonanza Creeks, 10; Eldorados and Little Eldorados, 10; Nugget Creeks
or Gulches, 17; Gold Creeks, 12; Gold Runs, 7. Nor is it only in creeks with auriferous deposit
or expectation of auriferous deposit that this reduplication occurs; there are Bear Creeks,
16; Boulder Creeks, 13; Moose Creeks, 13; Willow Creeks, 17; Canyon Creeks, 12; Glacier Creeks, 14.

The imagination of the average prospector is not his most active faculty, but even when his
imagination is given play and he names a place "Twilight," as he did the original settlement
at this base of supplies, the ineradicable prose of trade comes along the next summer and changes
it to "Iditarod City." There must have been some remarkable personality strong enough to repress
the "chamber of commerce" at Tombstone, Arizona, or the place would have lost its distinctive
name so soon as it grew large enough to have mercantile establishments instead of stores.

[Sidenote: IDITAROD CITY]

We went through "Discovery Otter" and into "Flat City," on Flat Creek, the jealous rival of
Iditarod City, and so over the hills to Iditarod City, on the wings of a storm. The wind whirled
the snow behind us and drove the sled along almost on top of the dogs. In its bleak situation
and its exposure to the full force of the wind, Iditarod City reminds one of Nome or Candle
on the Seward Peninsula. The hills and flats that surround it are in the main treeless, and
the snow drifts and drives over everything. Almost all the week that we spent in the town it
was smothered up in a howling wind-storm, so that it was quite a serious undertaking to walk
a block or two along the streets. Deep drifts were piled up on all the corners and on the lee
side of all buildings. We reached Iditarod City on Monday, the 13th of March. Until the following
Friday morning was no cessation or moderation of the wind-storm; and this, they told us, represented
most of the weather since the 1st of January.

Overgrown and overdone in every way, the place presented all the features, sordid and otherwise,
of a raw mining town. Prices had risen enormously on all manner of supplies, for everything
that was not actually "short" was believed to be "cornered." Bacon was ninety cents a pound;
butter one dollar and a half a pound; flour was twenty dollars a hundred pounds, and most things
in like ratio. Some said the grub was not in the camp; others that the tradesmen had it cached
away waiting for the still higher prices they believed would obtain before fresh supplies could
arrive in July. There was a general feeling of disappointment and discouragement, enhanced
by discomfort and actual suffering from the terrible stormy weather of the winter and the exorbitant
and growing price of provisions. Many men without occupation were living on one meal a day.
The saloons and the parasitical classes, male and female, seemed to flourish and to play their
usual prominent part in the life of such places. The doings of notorious women whose sobriquets
seemed household words, the lavish expenditures of certain men upon them, the presents of diamonds
they received, with the amount paid for them, constituted a large part of the general talk.

One is compelled to admire the vigour and enthusiastic enterprise, daunted by no difficulty,
that is displayed in the wonderfully rapid upraising of a new mining-camp town. The building
goes far ahead of the known wealth of the camp and commonly far ahead of the reasonable expectation.
But the element of chance is so important a factor in placer mining that the whole thing partakes
more of the nature of gambling than of a commercial venture. Any new camp may suddenly present
the world with a new Klondike; with riches abundant and to spare for every one who is fortunate
enough to be on the spot. Here was Flat Creek with a surprisingly rich deposit; why should
there not be a dozen such amidst the multitudinous creeks of the district? How could any one
know that it would be almost the only creek on which pay would be found at all? For there is
no law about the distribution of gold deposits; there is not even a general rule that has not
its notable exceptions. It is very generally believed by the old prospectors and miners that
somewhere in the Bible may be found these words, "Silver occurs in veins, but gold is where
you find it," which of course, is a mere misreading or faulty remembering of a verse in the
Book of Job: "Surely there is a vein for the silver and a place for the gold where they fine
it" (refine it). But that "gold is where you find it" is about the only law touching auriferous
deposits that holds universally good.

Three long parallel streets of one and two story wooden buildings, with cross streets connecting
them, made up the town. Because the country is poorly timbered, the usual log construction
had yielded in the main to framed buildings, and great quantities of lumber had been brought
the previous summer from Fairbanks, and even from Nome and the outside, to supplement the low-grade
output of two local mills. But the price of building materials had been very high, and the
average dwelling was very small and incommodious. People accustomed to the comparative luxury
of the older camps had suffered a good deal from the lack of all domestic conveniences in this
new will-o'-the-wisp of an eldorado.

So there the town stretched away, lumber and paper,--the usual tinder-box Alaskan construction--stores
slap up against one another, with no alleyways between; in the busiest part of it and along
the water-front even an adequate provision of side streets grudged; furnace-heated and kiln-dried
and gasoline-lit; waiting for the careless match and the fanning wind and the five minutes'
start that should send it all up in smoke. A week after we left it came; as it came to Dawson,
as it came to Nome, as it came to Fairbanks, without teaching any lesson or leaving any precautionary
regulations on the statute book to save men from their own competitive greed. Two or three
weeks after the fire, however, it was all rebuilt, and a plunging local bank held mortgages
on most of the structures for the cost of the new material--and holds them yet.

[Sidenote: THOUSANDS WITHOUT CHURCH]

With at least a thousand people resident in the town, not to mention the thousands more out
upon the creeks and at Flat City and "Discovery[G] Otter," there was no minister of religion
of any sort in the whole region, nor had public Divine service been conducted since the occasion
of the Pelican's visit the previous summer. Yet there were many in the place who sorely missed
the opportunities of worship. Twice on Sunday the largest dancing hall in the town was crowded
at service; at night it could have been filled a second time with those unable to get in.

Places like this present very difficult problems to those desirous of providing for their religious
need. To occupy them at all they should be occupied at once when yet eligible sites may be
had for the staking; if they prosper, to come into them later means buying at a high price.
Yet what seventh son of a seventh son shall have foresight enough to tell the fortunes of them?
The North is strewn with "cities" of one winter. Nor is the selection of suitable men to minister
to such communities a simple matter. Amidst the overthrow of all the usual criteria of conduct,
the fading out of the usual dividing lines and the blending into one another of the usual divisions,
it requires a tactful and prudent man "to keep the happy mean between too much stiffness in
refusing and to much easiness in admitting" variations from conventional standards. His point
of view, if he is to have any influence whatever, must not exclude the point of view of the
great majority; he must accept the situation in order to have any chance of improving the situation.
And yet in the fundamentals of character and conduct he must be unswerving. And if on any such
fundamental the battle gauge is thrown down, he must take it up and fight the quarrel out at
whatever cost.

We left Iditarod City on Monday, the 20th of March, the dogs the fatter and fresher for their
week's rest, resolved not to return by the Kuskokwim but to take the beaten trail out to the
Yukon, and so all the way up that stream to Fort Yukon. The monthly mail had arrived a few
days previously--a monthly mail was all that the thousands of men in this camp could secure--and
had gone out again the very next morning, before people had time to answer their letters, before
the registered mail had even been delivered. So our departure for the Yukon was eagerly seized
upon and advertised as a means of despatching probably the last mail that would go outside
over the ice. I was sworn in as special carrier, and a heavy sack of first-class mail added
to our load as far as Tanana. The first stage of thirty miles led to Dikeman, a town at the
headwaters of ordinary steamboat navigation of the Iditarod River, at which the Commercial
Company had built a depot and extensive warehouse, since in the main abandoned. Two streets
of cabins lined the bank, but forty or fifty souls comprised the population, and almost all
of them gathered for Divine service that night.

[Sidenote: THE "MOVING OF THE MEAT"]

From Dikeman to Dishkaket, on the Innoko River, a distance of some seventy miles, our route
lay over one of the dreariest and most dismal regions in all Alaska. It is one succession of
lakes and swamps, with narrow, almost knife-edge, ridges between, fringed with stunted spruce.
Far as the eye could reach to right and left the country was the same; it is safe to say broadly
that all the land between the Iditarod and Innoko Rivers is of this character. We passed over
it in mild weather, but it must be a terrible country to cross in storm or through deep snow.
For ten miles at a stretch there was scarcely a place where a man might make a decent camp.
At a midway road-house was gathered the greatest assemblage of dogs and loaded sleds I had
ever seen together at one time, each team with an Indian driver; they must have covered a quarter
or a third of a mile. It was a freight train engaged in transporting a whole boat-load of butcher's
meat to Iditarod City, the cargo of a steamboat that had frozen in on the Yukon the previous
October or early November. All the winter through efforts had been made to get this meat two
hundred odd miles overland to its destination; but the weather had been so stormy and the snow
so deep that near the end of March most of it was still on the way, and some yet far down the
trail towards the Yukon waiting for another trip of the teams.

Dishkaket was merely a native village on the Innoko River two or three years before; but since
three new trails from the Yukon come together here--from Kaltag Nulato, and Lewis's Landing--and
in the other directions two trails branch off here, to the Innoko diggings at Ophir and to
the Iditarod, a store or two and a couple of road-houses had sprung up.

From Dishkaket, after crossing the Innoko, we took the most northerly of the three trails to
the Yukon, the Lewis Cut-Off, a trail of a hundred miles that strikes straight across country
and reaches the Yukon eighty miles farther up that stream than the Nulato trail and a hundred
and twenty miles farther up than the Kaltag trail. The Kaltag trail is the trail to Nome; the
Nulato trail is the mail trail simply because it suits the contractors to throw business to
Nulato. The Lewis Cut-Off is the direct route, the shortest by about a hundred miles, but it
was cut by the private individual whose name it bears, and leads out to his store and road-house
on the Yukon; so a rival road-house was built close by on the river and the prestige and advertisement
of the "United States mail route" thrown to the trail that covers one hundred unnecessary miles--for
no other reason than to deprive Lewis of the legitimate fruit of his enterprise.

The character of the country changed so soon as the Innoko was crossed; the wide swamps gave
place to a broken, light-timbered country of ridges and hollows, and the rough, laborious,
horse-ruined trail across it made bad travelling. "Buckskin Bill," with his cayuses, was also
engaged in "moving the meat." The measured miles, moreover, gave place to estimated miles,
and the nominal twenty-five we made the first day was probably not much more than twenty.

[Sidenote: MILLINERY]

The first fifty miles of the country between the Innoko and the Yukon is much the same, and
we were climbing and descending ridges for a couple of days. Then we crossed a high ridge and
dropped out of Innoko waters into the valley of the Yukatna, a tributary of the Yukon, and
passed down this valley for thirty or forty miles, and then across some more broken country
to the Yukon. At one of the road-houses a woman was stopping, going in with three or four large
sled loads of millinery and "ladies' furnishings." We were told that the merchandise had cost
her twelve thousand dollars in Fairbanks, and that she expected to realise thirty thousand
dollars by selling it to the "sporting" women of the Iditarod, now a whole winter debarred
from "the latest imported French fashions." This woman was dressed in overalls, like a man,
and the drivers of her teams, two white men and a native, cursed and swore and used filthy
language to the dogs in her presence. It always angers me to hear an Indian curse; to hear
one curse in the presence of a white woman was particularly disgusting and exasperating; but
what could one expect when the white men put no slightest restraint upon themselves and the
woman seemed utterly indifferent? I called the Indian aside and spoke very plainly to him,
and he ceased his ribaldry; but the white men still poured it out as they struggled to hitch
their many dogs. At last I could stand it no longer. "Madam," I said to the woman, "I don't
know who you are, save that you are a white woman, and as a white woman, if I were you, I would
make those blackguards treat me with more respect than to use such language before me." She
flushed and made no reply. The men, who heard what I said, scowled and made no reply. Presently
dispositions were done and the train moved off, but I did not hear any more foul language.
This is set down here chiefly because it was the first and only time in all his travels in
Alaska that the writer heard such language in such presence.

Another road-house was kept by a man who had been cook upon a recent arctic expedition off
the coast of Alaska, and he gave some interesting inside information about an enterprise the
published narrative of which had always seemed unsatisfactory. It was just gossip from a drunken
scamp, but it filled several gaps in the book.

As we approached the Yukon we passed several meat caches where great quarters of beef sewn
up in burlap were piled on the side of the trail. At one of these caches the camp-robbers had
been at work industriously. They had stripped the burlap from parts of several quarters, exposing
the fat, and had dug out and carried it away little by little until it was all gone. The hard-frozen
lean probably defied their best efforts; at any rate, the fat offered less resistance. But
where else in the world could men dump quarters of beef beside the road and go off and leave
them for weeks with no more danger of depredation than the bills of birds can effect?

A few miles from the river the rival road-house signs began to appear. "Patronise Lewis; he
cut this trail at his own expense," pleaded one. "Why go five miles out of your way," sneered
another. Lewis's road-house is across the wide Yukon, and there was no point in crossing the
river save one's determination to lend no countenance to the spitefulness of these mail runners.
So across the river we went and were glad to be on the Yukon again. The next morning we encountered
the same rival signs at the point where the trail from Lewis's joined the "mail trail."

[Sidenote: "TREASURE ISLAND"]

Most of our travelling was now upon the surface of the Yukon, and four hundred and fifty miles
of it stretched ahead of us ere our winter's travel should end at Fort Yukon. Four hours brought
us to the military telegraph station at Melozi, and we were able to send word ahead that we
were safely out of the Kuskokwim wilderness. Then a portage was crossed and then the river
pursued again until with about thirty miles to our credit we made camp. The days were lengthening
out now, the weather growing mild, although a keen, cold, down-river breeze was rarely absent,
and travel began to be pleasant and camping no hardship. We preferred camping, on several scores,
when the day's work had not been too arduous, chief amongst them being that it gave more opportunity
and privacy for Walter's schooling. He was reading Treasure Island aloud, and I was getting
as great pleasure from renewing as he from beginning an acquaintance with that prince of all
pirate stories. Kokrines and Mouse Point one day, the next The Birches; we passed these well-known
Yukon landmarks, camping, after a run of thirty-eight miles, some six miles beyond the last-named
place, with a run of forty-four miles before us to Tanana. I judged it too much; but the trail
was greatly improved and we decided to attempt it in one stage. A misreading of the watch,
so that I roused myself and Walter at 3.30 A. M. instead of 5.15 A. M., and did not realise
the mistake until the fire was made and it was not worth while returning to bed, gave us a
fine start and we made good progress. Gold Mountain (so called, one supposes, because there
is no gold there; there is no other reason), Grant Creek, "Old Station" were passed by, and
at length Tanana loomed before us while yet ten miles away. In just eleven hours we ran the
forty-four miles, making, with three additional miles out to the mission, forty-seven altogether,
by far the longest journey of the winter. We reached Tanana on the 1st of April, just six weeks
since we left.

[Sidenote: AN UNTRAVELLED RIVER]

We spent eight days at Tanana, including two Sundays, Passion Sunday and Palm Sunday, but I
was under an old promise to spend Easter there also. Now, Easter, 1911, fell on the 16th of
April, and for the three-hundred-mile journey to Fort Yukon a period of ten or twelve days
at the least would be necessary, that might easily stretch to two weeks. Travelling on the
Yukon ice so late in April as this would involve was not only fraught with great difficulty
and discomfort, but also with actual danger, and I had to beg to be absolved of my promise.
Some considerable preparation was on foot for the festival, and I was loath to leave, for Tanana
was then without any resident minister, but it seemed foolish to take the chances that would
have to be taken if we stayed.

Five days of almost ceaseless snow-storm during our stay at Tanana did not give prospect of
good travelling, and, indeed, when we pulled out from the mission on the Monday in Holy Week
there was no sign of any trail. From Tanana up to Fort Yukon there is very little travel; since
the whole of this long stretch of river was deprived of winter mail a year or two before, no
through travel at all. Cabins may usually be found to camp in, but there are no road-houses.
What travel still takes place is local.

The journey divided itself into two roughly equal parts, a hundred and fifty miles through
the Lower Ramparts, and a hundred and fifty miles through the Yukon Flats, almost all of it
on the surface of the river. It was hoped to reach Stephen's Village, a native settlement just
within the second half of the journey, for Easter.

Snow does not lie long at rest upon the river within the Ramparts, and particularly within
the narrow, cañon-like stretch of seventy-five miles from Tanana to Rampart City. Violent and
almost ceaseless down-stream winds sweep the deep defile in the mountains through which the
river winds its course. In places the ice is bare of snow; in places the snow is piled in huge,
hardened drifts. So strong and so persistent is this wind that it is often possible to skate
over an uninterrupted black surface of ice, polished like plate glass, for twenty miles on
a down-river journey. To make way over such a surface up-stream, against such wind, is, however,
almost impossible. The dogs get no footing and the wind carries the sled where it listeth.
The journey so far as Rampart City has been described before; it will suffice now that it took
three days of toilsome battling against wind and bad surface, with nights spent upon the floor
of grimy cabins. So cold was the wind that it is noted in my diary with surprise, on the 12th
of April, that I had worn fur cap, parkee, and muffler all day, as though it had been the dead
of winter instead of three weeks past the vernal equinox.

On Wednesday night there was Divine service at Rampart, and on Maundy Thursday, after four
miles upon the river, we took the portage of eleven miles that cuts a chord to the arc of the
greatest bend of the river within the Ramparts and so saves nine miles. Three miles more took
us to the deserted cabin at the site of the abandoned coal-mine opposite the mouth of the Mike
Hess River, here confluent with the Yukon, and in that cabin we spent the night, having had
the high, bitter wind in our faces all day. We hated to leave the shelter of the wooded portage
and face the blast of the last three miles.

[Sidenote: WIND AND SNOW]

We woke the next morning to a veritable gale of wind and snow, and lay in the cabin till noon,
occupied with the exercises of the solemn anniversary. The wind having then abated somewhat
and the snow ceased, we sallied forth, still hopeful of making Stephen's Village for Easter.
But when we got down upon the river surface it became doubtful if we could proceed, and as
we turned the first bend we encountered a fresh gale that did not fall short of a blizzard.
The air was filled with flying snow that stung our faces and blinded us. The dogs' muzzles
became incrusted with snow and their eyes filled with it so that it was hard to keep them facing
it. I could not see the boy at all when he was a hundred feet ahead of the team. We struggled
along for four miles, and, since it was then evident that we could not go much farther without
useless risk, we turned to a spot on the bank where Walter knew another deserted cabin to stand;
for he knows every foot of this section of the river and once spent a summer, camped at the
coal-mine, fishing. The spot was reached, but the cabin was gone. The fish rack still stood
there, but the cabin was burned down. There was nothing for it but to return to the coal-mine
cabin; so, for the first and only time in all my journeyings, it was necessary to abandon a
day's march that had been entered upon and go back whence we had come. We ran before the gale
at great speed and were within the cabin again by 2.30 P. M. All the evening and all night
the storm raged, and I was in two minds about running back to Rampart before it for Easter,
since it was now out of the question to reach Stephen's Village. If the season had not been
so far advanced this is what I should have done, but it would set us back three days more on
the journey, and on reflection I was not willing to take that chance with the break-up so near.

So on the morning of Easter Eve we sallied up-stream again, snow falling and driving heavily,
and the wind still strong but with yesterday's keen edge blunted. By the time we had beaten
around the long bend up which we had fought our way the day before, the snow had ceased, and
by noon the wind had dropped and the sun was shining, and in a few moments of his unobscured
strength all the loose snow on the sled was melted--a warning of the rapidity with which the
general thaw would proceed once the skies were clear. That night saw us in the habitable though
dirty, deserted cabin at Salt Creek (so called, one supposes, because the water of it is perfectly
fresh) at which we had hoped to lodge the previous night.

[Sidenote: ALASKAN "FORTS"]

Buoyed by the hope of doing a double stage in a clear, windless day and thus reaching Stephen's
Village for service at night, we made a very early start that beautiful Easter morning. But
it was not to be. Such trail as there was ran high up on the bank ice--level, doubtless, when
it was made much earlier in the season, but now at a slope towards the middle of the river
through the falling of the water, and seamed with great cracks. Such a trail, called a "sidling"
trail in the vernacular of mushing, is always difficult and laborious to travel, for the sled
slips continually off it into the loose snow or the ice cracks, and often for long stretches
at a time one man must hold up the nose of the sled while the other toils at the handle-bars.
In one place, while thus holding the front of the sled on the trail, Walter slipped into an
ugly ice crack concealed by drifted snow, and so wedged his foot that I had difficulty in extricating
him. The last two bends of the river within the Ramparts seemed interminable and it was 6.30
P. M., with twelve hours' travel behind us, when we reached old Fort Hamlin, on the verge of
the Yukon Flats. These "forts," it might be explained, if one chose to pursue the elucidation
of Alaskan nomenclature in the same strain, are so called because they never had any defences
and never needed any. As a matter of fact, in the early days, when the Hudson Bay Company made
its first establishments on the upper river, there was supposed to be some need of fortification,
and Fort Selkirk and Fort Yukon were stockaded. Fort Selkirk, indeed, was sacked and burned
sixty years ago, but not by Yukon Indians. The Chilkats from the coast, indignant at the loss
of their middle-man profits by the invasion of the interior, crossed the mountains, descended
the river, and destroyed the post. It thus became customary to call a trading-post a "fort,"
and every little point where a store and a warehouse stood was so dignified. Hence Fort Reliance,
Fort Hamlin, Fort Adams.

For years Fort Hamlin had been quite deserted, but now smoke issued from the stovepipe and
dogs gave tongue at our approach, and we found a white man with an Esquimau wife from Saint
Michael and a half-breed child dwelling there and carrying a few goods for sale. With him we
made our lodging, and with him and his family said our evening service of Easter, and so to
bed, thoroughly tired.

[Sidenote: TRAVELLING BY NIGHT]

A mile beyond Fort Hamlin the Ramparts suddenly cease and the wide expanse of the Yukon Flats
opens at once. Ten miles or so brought us to Stephen's Village, where we had been long expected
and where a very busy day was spent. A number of Indians were gathered and there were children
to baptize and couples to marry, as well as the lesson of the season to teach. It was a great
disappointment that we had been unable to get here before, and matter of regret that, being
here at such labour, only so short a time could be spent. But the closing season called to
us loudly. A mild, warm day set all the banks running with melting snow and made the surface
of the river mushy. There was really no time to lose, for the next seventy-five miles was to
give us the most difficult and disagreeable travelling of the journey. Here, in the Flats,
where is greatest need of travel direction on the whole river, was no trail at all beyond part
of the first day's journey. Within the Ramparts the river is confined in one channel; however
bad the travelling may be, there is no danger of losing the way; but in the Flats the river
divides into many wide channels and these lead off into many more back sloughs, with low, timbered
banks and no salient landmarks at all. Behind us were the bluffs of the Ramparts, already growing
faint; afar off on the horizon, to the right, were the dim shapes of the Beaver Mountains.
All the rest was level for a couple of hundred miles.

A local trail to a neighbouring wood-chopper's took us some twelve miles, and then we were
at a loss. The general direction we knew, and previous journeys both in winter and summer gave
us some notion of the river bends to follow, but we wallowed and floundered until late at night
before we reached the cabin we were bound for, the snow exceeding soft and wet for hours in
the middle of the day.

The time had plainly come to change our day travel into night travel, for freezing was resumed
each night after the sun was set, and the surface grew hard again. So at this cabin we lay
all the next day, with an interesting recluse of these parts who knows many passages of Shakespeare
by heart, and who drew us a chart of our course to the next habitation, marking every bend
to be followed and the place where the river must be crossed. But there is always difficulty
in getting a new travel schedule under way, and we did not leave until five in the morning
instead of at two as we had planned. This gave us insufficient time to make the day's march
before the sun softened the snow, and moccasins grew wet, and snow-shoe strings began to stretch,
and the webbing underfoot to yield and sag--and we had to content ourselves with half a stage.
By nine P. M. we were off again and did pretty well until the night grew so dark that we could
no longer distinguish our landmarks. Then we went to the bank and built a big fire and made
a pot of tea and sat and dozed around it for a couple of hours or so until the brief darkness
of Alaskan spring was overpast, and the dawn began to give light enough to see our way again.

When our course lay on the open river, the snow had crust enough to hold us upon our snow-shoes;
but when it took us through little sheltered sloughs, the crust was too thin and we broke through
all the time, and that makes slow, painful travel. At last we came to a portage that cuts off
a number of miles, but the snow slope by which the top of the bank should be reached had a
southern exposure and was entirely melted and gone. The dogs had to be unhitched, the sled
to be unloaded, the stuff packed in repeated journeys up the steep bank, and the sled hauled
up with a rope. Then came the repacking and reloading and the rehitching; and when the portage
was crossed the same thing had to be done to get down to the river bed again. Twice more on
that day the process was gone through, and each time it took nigh an hour to get up the bank,
so that it was around noon, and the snow miserably wet and mushy again, when we reached Beaver
and went to bed at the only road-house between Fort Yukon and Tanana.

"Beaver City" owes its existence to quartz prospects in the Chandalar, in which men of money
and influence in the East were interested. The Alaska Road Commission had built a trail some
years before from the Chandalar diggings out to the Yukon, striking the river at this point,
and on the opposite side of the river another trail is projected and "swamped out" direct to
Fairbanks. The opening up of this route was expected to bring much travel through Beaver, and
a town site was staked and many cabins built. But "Chandalar quartz" remains an interesting
prospect, and the Chandalar placers have not proved productive, and all but a few of the cabins
at "Beaver City" are unoccupied. If "the Chandalar" should ever make good, "Beaver City" will
be its river port.

[Sidenote: LAST DAY]

We left Beaver at eleven P. M. on Friday night, hoping in two long all-night runs to cover
the eighty miles and reach Fort Yukon by Sunday morning. Here was the first trail since we
left Stephen's Village and the first fairly good trail since we left Tanana, for there had
been some recent travel between Fort Yukon and Beaver. Here for the first time we had no need
of snow-shoes, and when they have been worn virtually all the winter through and nigh a couple
of thousand miles travelled in them, walking is strange at first in the naked moccasin. It
is a blessed relief, however, to be rid of even the lightest of trail snow-shoes. We stepped
out gaily into a beautiful clear night, with a sharp tang of frost in the air, and even the
dogs rejoiced in the knowledge that the end of the journey was at hand. All night long we made
good time and kept it up without a stop until eight o'clock in the morning, when we reached
an inhabited but just then unoccupied cabin and ate supper or breakfast as one chooses to call
it and went to bed, having covered fully half the distance to Fort Yukon. About noon we were
rudely awakened by one of the usual Alaskan accompaniments of approaching summer. The heat
of the sun was melting the snow above us, and water came trickling through the dirt roof upon
our bed. We moved to a dry part of the cabin and slept again until the evening, and at nine
P. M. entered upon what we hoped would be our last run.

But once more our plans to spend Sunday were frustrated. The trail led through dry sloughs
from which the advancing thaw had removed the snow in great patches. Sometimes the sled had
to be hauled over bare sand; sometimes wide detours had to be made to avoid such sand; sometimes
pools of open water covered with only that night's ice lay across our path. By eight o'clock
in the morning we estimated that we were not more than seven or eight miles from Fort Yukon.
But already the snow grew soft and our feet wet, and the dogs were very weary with the eleven
hours' mushing. It would take a long time and much toil to plough through slush, even that
seven or eight miles. So I gave the word to stop, and we made an open-air camp on a sunny bank,
and after breakfast we covered our heads in the blankets from the glare of the sun, and slept
till five. Then we ate our last trail meal, and were washed up and packed up and hitched up
an hour and more before the snow was frozen enough for travel. A couple of hours' run took
us to Fort Yukon, and so ended the winter journey of 1910-11, on the 23d of April, having been
started on the 17th of November. We were back none too soon. Every day we should have found
travelling decidedly worse. In a few more days the river would have begun to open in places,
and only the middle would be safe for travel, with streams of water against either bank and
no way of getting ashore. Seventeen days later the ice was gone out and the Yukon flowing bank
full.

FOOTNOTE:

[G] The "claim" on a creek on which gold is first found is called "Discovery"; the claims above
are numbered one, two, three, etc., "above" and the claims below, one, two, three, etc., "below."

CHAPTER XI

THE NATIVES OF ALASKA

