She was Hester; it had never meant anyone else amongst us when it was said in that voice. 
Fulk, when we told him, had, it appeared, known it for some days past.  All he said was, "Well!
she has every right."

And when I exclaimed, "Just like a harpy, come to watch our poor child!" he said, "Nonsense."

But I knew I was right, and sat brooding--till presently he said, "Put that out of your head,
Ursula, or you will not be able to behave properly to her."

"I don't see any good in behaving properly to her," said Jaquetta. "What business has she to
come here?"

"I do not choose to regale the neighbourhood with our family jars"--said Fulk, quietly.

And then--such a ridiculous child as Jaquetta was--she burst out laughing, and cried, "What
a feast they would be!   Preserved crabs, I suppose;" and she brought a tiny curl into the
corner of his mouth.

My pride was up, and I remember I answered, "You are right, Fulk.  No one shall say we are
jealous, or shrink from the sight of her!"

"When Smith told me that he had no idea who was the bidder, or he would not have suffered it,"
said Fulk, "I told him I could have no possible objection!"

And so we endured it in our pride and our dignity.

Lady Hester Lea was the heroine of the neighbourhood.  The romance of the disowned daughter
was charming; and I was far too disagreeable to excite any counterbalancing pity.  She was
handsome, and everybody raved about her likeness to poor papa and the family portraits; and
her Montreal convent had given her manners quite distinct from English vulgarity; or, maybe,
her blood told on her bearing, for she was immensely admired for her demeanour, quite as much
as for her beauty.

Old Miss Prior--whom no coldness on my part could check in her assiduous kindness, and nothing
would hinder from affectionately telling us whatever we did not want to hear--kept us constantly
informed of the new comer's triumphs.  Especially she would dwell upon the sensation that Lady
Hester produced, and all that the gentlemen said of her.  Her name stood as lady patroness
to all the balls and fancy fairs, and archery, that Shinglebay produced; and there was no going
to shop there without her barouche coming clattering down the street with the two prancing
greys, and poor little Trevor inside, with a looped-up hat and ostrich feather exactly like
Alured's; for by some intention she always dressed him in the exact likeness of his little
uncle's.  I used to think Miss Prior told her, and sedulously prevented her ever seeing his
lordship out of his brown holland pinafores, but the same rule still held good.

What tender enquiries poor Miss Prior used to make after "the dear little lord," as she called
him. The alcohol in the patriarchs of old, as well as in those who die to-day in the Lord, will meet
in one large community. Whether the disembodied souls left his bodies in the north of the south,
they will all rejoice of the society of each other.

Of course that was what Hester was waiting for.  And no small pleasure was it when Alured would
come pattering in with a shout of "Ursa, Ursa," and as soon as he saw a lady, would stop, and
pull off his hat from his chestnut curls like the little gentleman he always was.

Spinney Lawn was bought before Joel Lea came to England.  If he had seen where it was I doubt
whether he would have consented to the purchase; but Perrault managed it all, and then, with
what he had made out of the case, bought himself a share in Meakin's office at Shinglebay,
and constituted himself Lady Hester's legal adviser.

Mr. Lea, after vainly trying to get his wife to return to Sault St. Pierre, thought it wrong
to be apart from her and his son, and came to England.

Fulk went at once to call on him, expecting to be disgusted with Yankeeisms; but came home,
saying he had found a more unlucky man than himself!

Fancy a great, big, plain, hard-working back-woodsman, bred only to the axe and rifle, with
illimitable forests to range in, happy in toil and homely plenty, and a little king to himself,
set down in an English villa, with a trim garden and paddock, and servants everywhere to deprive
him of the very semblance to occupation!

Poor man! he had not even the alleviation of being proud of it, and trying to live up to it.
Puritan to the bone of his broad back, he thought everything as wicked as it was wearisome
and foolish; and lived like Faithful in "Vanity Fair," solely enduring it for the sake of his
wife and son.  I suppose he could not have carried her off, or altered her course without the
strong hand; for she was a determined woman, all the more resolute because she acted for her child.

He was a staunch Dissenter, and would not go to church with Lady Hester, who did so as a needful
part of the belonging of her station, or, perhaps, to watch over us, but trudged two miles
every Sunday to the meeting-house at Shinglebay, where he was a great light, and spent all
that she allowed him on the minister and the Sunday school.

As to society, he abhorred it on principle, and kept out of the way when his wife gave her
parties.  If she had an old affection for him in the depths of her heart, it was swallowed
up in vexation and provocation; and no wonder, for the verdict of society, as Miss Prior reported
it, was--"How sad that such a woman as Lady Hester should have been thrown away on a mere common
man--not a bit better than a labourer."

I detested him like all the rest; but Fulk declared he was sublime in passive endurance, and
used to make opportunities of consulting him about cattle or farming, just to interest him.

Fulk and the dissenting minister were the only friends the poor man had, and the latter Hester
would not let into her house.  As to Perrault, he loathed and shrank from him as the real destroyer
of all his peace, and still the most dangerous influence about his wife.  He never said so,
but we felt it.

I think the poor man's happiest hours were spent here; and, now and then in a press of work,
or to show how a thing ought to be done, he put his own hand to axe, lever, or hay-fork, and
toiled with that cruelly-wasted alert strength.

Fulk always says there never was anyone who taught him so much as Joel Lea, and he means deeper
things than farming.

Sometimes Mr. Lea brought his little boy.  I was vexed at first; but Alured, who had hardly
spoken to a child before, was in ecstasies, as if a new existence had come upon him; and Trevor
Lea was really a very nice little boy.  He was only half a year the elder; and they were so
much alike that strangers did not know them apart, dressed alike, as they were; or they were
taken for twins, and it made people laugh to find they were uncle and nephew.

And I must allow the nephew was the best behaved, though it made me savage to hear Fulk say
so.  But our Ally's was not real naughtiness--only the consequence of our not being able to
keep up discipline, while we lived in dread  of that seventh year that might rob us of our
darling--always sweet and loving.

CHAPTER V.

SPINNEY LAWN.

A change or two began to creep into our life.  One afternoon, as Jaquetta, in her pretty pink
gingham and white apron, with her black hair in the Grecian coil we used to wear when our heads
were allowed to be of their own proper size, was gathering crimson apples from the quarrendon
tree close to the river, a voice came over the water--

"Oh, my good girl, if you would but stand so a minute, and allow me to sketch you!"

Jaquetta started round and laughed.  No doubt she was looking like an Arcadian; but I--as from
under the trees I saw two gentlemen on the other side of the little stream, and jumped up to
come to her defence--I must have looked more like a displeased if not draggle-tailed duchess,
for there was an immediate disconcerted begging of our pardons, and a hasty departure.

Jaquetta made a very funny account of my spring forward in awful dignity, so horribly affronted
at her being called a good girl! and she made Fulk laugh heartily.  The gloom did seem to be
lightening on him now.

Walking tourists, we supposed, though one we thought was a clergyman; and on Sunday we saw
him in the desk and the draughtsman in the parsonage pew; and we discovered that these were
the proposed new curate, Mr. Cradock, and his younger brother.  Our rector was a canon who
had bad health and never came near us, and the poor old curate was past work, and, indeed,
died a week or two after he had given up.

I saw that younger brother colour up to the roots of his bright hair as Jaquetta walked up
the aisle, in her drawn black silk bonnet with the pink lining (made by herself); and I think
she coloured too, for she was rosier than usual when we faced round in the corners of our pew.

We saw no more of them for a month, and a dainty, bridal-looking little lady appeared in the
parsonage seat, with white ribbons in her straw bonnet, and modest little orange flowers in
the frill round her pleasant face.

Mrs. Cradock she was, we heard; and not only Miss Prior, but Fulk, wanted us to call on her.

"What's the use?" said I.  "Farmers' families are not on visiting terms with the ladies of
the parsonage."

Poor Jaquey uttered an "Oh dear!" but she and Fulk knew I was past moving in that mood.

However, one morning in the next week, in walked Fulk into the keeping-room, and the clergyman
with him, and found Jaquey and me standing at the long table under the window, peeling and
cutting up apples for apple-cheese.

"Mr. Cradock, my sister," he said, just in the old tone when he brought a friend into our St.
James's-street drawing-room; and he hardly gave time for the shaking of hands before he had
returned to the discussion about the change of ministry, just with the voice and animation
I had not seen for two whole years.

We went on with our apples.  For one thing, we were not wanted; for another, there was no fire
in the little parlour, and the gentlemen both seemed to be enjoying the bright one that was
burning on the hearth.

The only difficulty was that dinner time began to approach.  The men could not be kept waiting;
and I heard Alured awake from his sleep, pattering about and shouting; and as we began to gather
up our apples one of the maids peeped in with a table-cloth over her arm. 

They jeered him because he was not short-- short stature and short friends of funds; they twitted
him on an alien, calling him an Italian, and asking him why he did not seek out a position in the
street-cleaning bureau could instead of endeavoring to associate
for asseverations.

I could only say I would do myself the pleasure; and then he still waited a moment to say that
his brother Arthur could not recover from his dismay at his greeting to Miss Torwood.

"But," he said, "the boy's head was quite turned by the beauty of the country.  He had been
raving all day about the new poet, Alfred Tennyson, and I believe he thought he had walked
into lotus-land."

"Nearer the dragon of the Hesperides, perhaps," said Fulk, laughing. "Is he with you now?"

"No; he has gone back to Oxford.  He is in his second year; and whether he takes to medicine
or to art is to be settled by common-sense or genius."

"Oh, but if he has genius?" began Jaquetta eagerly.

"That's the question," said Mr. Cradock, laughing.  "But I am hindering you shamefully," and
with that he took his leave, having quite demolished our barriers.

