CHILDREN OF THE MIST

BY

EDEN PHILLPOTTS

Author of "Down Dartmoor Way," "Some Everyday Folks," "My Laughing Philosopher," "Lying Prophets,"
etc.

1898

    BOOK I--THE BOY'S ROMANCE

       I  THE PIXIES' PARLOUR
      II  A CLEAR UNDERSTANDING
     III  EXIT WILL
      IV  BY THE RIVER
       V  THE INCIDENT OF MR. JOEL FORD
      VI  AN UNHAPPY POET
     VII  LIBATION TO POMONA
    VIII  A BROTHERS' QUARREL
      IX  OUTSIDE EXETER GAOL
       X  THE BRINGING OF THE NEWS
      XI  LOVE AND GREY GRANITE
     XII  A STORY-BOOK
    XIII  THE MILLER'S OFFER
     XIV  LOGIC

    BOOK II--THE ENTERPRISE

       I  SPRINGTIME
      II  NEWTAKE FARM
     III  OVER A RIDING-WHIP
      IV  DEFEATED HOPES
       V  THE ZEAL OF SAM BONUS
      VI  A SWARM OF BEES
     VII  AN OFFER OF MARRIAGE
    VIII  MR. BLEE FORGETS HIMSELF
      IX  A DIFFERENCE WITH THE DUCHY
       X  CONNECTING LINKS
      XI  TOGETHER
     XII  THROUGH ONE GREAT DAY
    XIII  THE WILL
     XIV  A HUNDRED POUNDS
      XV  "THE ANGEL OF THE DARKER DRINK"
     XVI  BEFORE THE DAWN
    XVII  MISSING

    BOOK III--HIS GRANITE CROSS

       I  BABY
      II  THE KNIGHT OF FORLORN HOPES
     III  CONCERNING THE GATE-POST
      IV  MARTIN'S RAID
       V  WINTER
      VI  THE CROSS UPREARED
     VII  GREY TWILIGHT

    BOOK IV--HIS SECRET

        I    A WANDERER RETURNS
       II    HOPE RENEWED
      III    ANSWERED
       IV    THE END OF THE FIGHT
        V    TWO MIGHTY SURPRISES
       VI    THE SECRET OUT
      VII    SMALL TIMOTHY
     VIII    FLIGHT
       IX    UNDER COSDON BEACON
        X    BAD NEWS FOR BLANCHARD
       XI    PHOEBE TAKES THOUGHT
      XII    NEW YEAR'S EVE AND NEW YEAR'S DAY
     XIII    MR. LYDDON'S TACTICS
      XIV    ACTION
       XV    A BATTLE
      XVI    A PAIR OF HANDCUFFS
     XVII    SUSPENSE
    XVIII    THE NIGHT OF JUBILEE

CHILDREN OF THE MIST

BOOK I

THE BOY'S ROMANCE

CHAPTER I

THE PIXIES' PARLOUR

Phoebe Lyddon frowned, and, as an instant protest, twin dimples peeped into life at the left
corner of her bonny mouth. In regarding that attractive ripple the down-drawn eyebrows were
forgotten until they rose again into their natural arches. A sweet, childish contour of face
chimed with her expression; her full lips were bright as the bunch of ripe wood-strawberries
at the breast of her cotton gown; her eyes as grey as Dartmoor mists; while, for the rest,
a little round chin, a small, straight nose, and a high forehead, which Phoebe mourned and
kept carefully concealed under masses of curly brown hair, were the sole features to be specially
noted about her. She was a trifle below the standard of height proper to a girl of nineteen,
but all compact, of soft, rounded lines, plump, fresh of colour, healthy, happy, sweet as a
ripe apple.

From a position upon swelling hillsides above the valley of a river, she scanned the scene
beneath, made small her eyes to focus the distance, and so pursued a survey of meadow and woodland,
yet without seeing what she sought. Beneath and beyond, separated from her standpoint by grasslands
and a hedge of hazel, tangled thickets of blackthorn, of bracken, and of briar sank to the
valley bottom. Therein wound tinkling Teign through the gorges of Fingle to the sea; and above
it, where the land climbed upward on the other side, spread the Park of Whiddou, with expanses
of sweet, stone-scattered herbage, with tracts of deep fern, coverts of oak, and occasional
habitations for the deer.

This spectacle, through a grey veil of fine rain, Phoebe noted at mid-afternoon of a day in
early August; and, as she watched, there widened a rift under the sun's hidden throne, and
a mighty, fan-shaped pencil of brightness straggled downwards, proceeded in solemn sweep across
the valley, and lighted the depths of the gorge beyond with a radiance of misty silver. The
music of jackdaws welcomed this first indication of improved weather; then Phoebe's sharp eyes
beheld a phenomenon afar off through the momentary cessation of the rain. Three parts of a
mile away, on a distant hillside, like the successive discharges of a dozen fowling-pieces,
little blotches of smoke or mist suddenly appeared. Rapidly they followed each other, and sometimes
the puffs of vapour were exploded together, sometimes separately. For a moment the girl felt
puzzled; then she comprehended and laughed.

"'Tis the silly auld sheep!" she said to herself. "They 'm shakin 'theer fleeces 'cause they
knaw the rain's over-past. Bellwether did begin, I warrant, then all the rest done the same."

Each remote member of the flock thus freed its coat from the accumulated moisture of a long
rainfall; then the huddled heap, in which they had combined to withstand the weather and show
tail to the western storm, began to scatter. With coughs and sneezes the beasts wandered forward
again, and pursued their business of grazing.

Steadily the promises of the sky multiplied and Phoebe's impatience increased. Her position
did not, however, depend for comfort upon the return of sunshine, for she stood out of the
weather, where sundry giant rocks to the number of five arose in a fantastic pile. Nature's
primal architects were responsible for the Pixies' Parlour, and upon the awful morning of Dartmoor's
creation these enormous masses had first been hurled to their present position--outposts of
the eternal granite, though themselves widely removed from the central waste of the Moor. This
particular and gigantic monument of the past stands with its feet in land long cultivated.
Plough and harrow yearly skirt the Pixies' Parlour; it rises to-day above yellow corn, to-morrow
amid ripening roots; it crowns the succeeding generations of man's industry, and watches a
ceaseless cycle of human toil. The rocks of which it is composed form a sort of rude chamber,
sacred to fairy folk since a time before the memory of the living; briars and ivy-tods conceal
a part of the fabric; a blackthorn, brushed at this season with purple fruit, rises above it;
one shadowed ledge reveals the nightly roosting place of hawk or raven; and marks of steel
on the stone show clearly where some great or small fragment of granite has been blasted from
the parent pile for the need of man. Multi-coloured, massive, and picturesque, the Parlour,
upon Phoebe Lyddon's visit to it, stood forth against the red bosom of naked land; for a fierce
summer had early ripened the vanished harvest, and now its place was already ploughed again,
while ashes of dead fire scattered upon the earth showed where weed and waste had been consumed
after ingathering of the grain.

Patches of August blue now lightened the aerial grey; then sunshine set a million gems twinkling
on the great bejewelled bosom of the valley. Under this magic heat an almost instantaneous
shadowy ghost of fresh vapour rose upon the riparian meadows, and out of it, swinging along
with the energy of youth and high spirits, came a lad. Phoebe smiled and twinkled a white handkerchief
to him, and he waved his hat and bettered his pace for answer.

Soon Will Blanchard reached his sweetheart, and showed himself a brown, straight youngster,
with curly hair, pugnacious nose, good shoulders, and a figure so well put together that his
height was not apparent until he stood alongside another man. Will's eyes were grey as Phoebe's,
but of a different expression; soft and unsettled, cloudy as the recent weather, full of the
alternate mist and flash of a precious stone, one moment all a-dreaming, the next aglow. His
natural look was at first sight a little stern until a man came to know it, then this impression
waned and left a critic puzzled. The square cut of his face and abrupt angle of his jaw did
not indeed belie Will Blanchard, but the man's smile magically dissipated this austerity of
aspect, and no sudden sunshine ever brightened a dark day quicker than pleasure made bright
his features. It was a sulky, sleepy, sweet, changeable face--very fascinating in the eyes
of women. His musical laugh once fluttered sundry young bosoms, brightened many pretty eyes
and cheeks, but Will's heart was Phoebe Lyddon's now--had been for six full months--and albeit
a mere country boy in knowledge of the world, younger far than his one-and-twenty years of
life, and wholly unskilled in those arts whose practice enables men to dwell together with
friendship and harmony, yet Will Blanchard was quite old enough and wise enough and rich enough
to wed, and make a husband of more than common quality at that--in his own opinion.

Fortified by this conviction, and determined to wait no longer, he now came to see Phoebe.
Within the sheltering arms of the Pixies' Parlour he kissed her, pressed her against his wet
velveteen jacket, then sat down under the rocks beside her.

"You 'm comed wi' the sun, dear Will."

"Ay--the weather breaks. I hope theer'll be a drop more water down the river bimebye. You got
my letter all right?"

"Ess fay, else I shouldn't be here. And this tremendous matter in hand?"

"I thought you'd guess what 't was. I be weary o' waitin' for 'e. An' as I comed of age last
month, I'm a man in law so well as larnin', and I'm gwaine to speak to Miller Lyddon this very
night."

Phoebe looked blank. There was a moment's silence while Will picked and ate the wood-strawberries
in his sweetheart's dress.

"Caan't 'e think o' nothin' wiser than to see faither?" she said at last.

"Theer ban't nothin' wiser. He knaws we 'm tokened, and it's no manner o' use him gwaine on
pretendin' to himself 't isn't so. You 'm wife-old, and you've made choice o' me; and I'm a
ripe man, as have thought a lot in my time, and be earnin' gude money and all. Besides, 't
is a dead-sure fact I'll have auld Morgan's place as head waterkeeper, an' the cottage along
with it, in fair time."

"Ban't for me to lift up no hindrances, but you knaw faither."

"Ess, I do--for a very stiff-necked man."

"Maybe 't is so; but a gude faither to me."

"An' a gude friend to me, for that matter. He aint got nothing 'gainst me, anyway--no more
's any man living."

"Awnly the youth and fieriness of 'e."

"Me fiery! I lay you wouldn't find a cooler chap in Chagford."

"You 'm a dinky bit comical-tempered now and again, dear heart."

He flushed, and the corners of his jaw thickened.

"If a man was to say that, I'd knock his words down his throat."

"I knaw you would, my awn Will; an' that's bein' comical-tempered, ban't it?"

"Then perhaps I'd best not to see your faither arter all, if you 'm that way o' thinkin',"
he answered shortly.

Then Phoebe purred to him and rubbed her cheek against his chin, whereon the glint vanished
from his eyes, and they were soft again.

"Mother's the awnly livin' sawl what understands me," he said slowly.

"And I--I too, Will!" cried Phoebe. "Ess fay. I'll call you a holy angel if you please, an'
God knaws theer 's not an angel in heaven I'd have stead of 'e."

"I ban't no angel," said Will gravely, "and never set up for no such thing; but I've thought
a lot 'bout the world in general, and I'm purty wise for a home-stayin' chap, come to think
on it; and it's borne in 'pon me of late days that the married state 's a gude wan, and the
sooner the better."

"But a leap in the dark even for the wisest, Will?"

"So's every other step us takes for that matter. Look at them grasshoppers. Off they goes to
glory and doan't knaw no more 'n the dead wheer they'll fetch up. I've seed 'em by the river
jump slap in the water, almost on to a trout's back. So us hops along and caan't say what's
comin' next. We 'm built to see just beyond our awn nose-ends and no further. That's philosophy."

"Ban't comfortin' if 't is," said Phoebe.

"Whether or no, I'll see your faither 'fore night and have a plain answer. I'm a straight,
square man, so's the miller."

"You'll speed poorly, I'm fearin', but 't is a honest thing; and I'll tell faither you 'm all
the world to me. He doan't seem to knaw what it is for a gal to be nineteen year old somehow."

Solemnly Will rose, almost overweighted with the consciousness of what lay before him.

"We'll go home-along now. Doan't 'e tell him I'm coming. I'll take him unbeknawnst. And you
keep out the way till I be gone again."

"Does your mother knaw, Will?"

"Ess, she an' Chris both knaw I be gwaine to have it out this night. Mother sez I be right,
but that Miller will send me packing wi' a flea in my ear; Chris sez I be wrong to ax yet awhile."

"You can see why that is; 'she 's got to wait herself," said Phoebe, rather spitefully.

"Waitin' 's well enough when it caan't be helped. But in my case, as a man of assured work
and position in the plaace, I doan't hold it needful no more."

Together the young couple marched down over the meadows, gained the side of the river, and
followed its windings to the west. Through a dip in the woods presently peeped the ancient
stannary town of Chagford, from the summit of its own little eminence on the eastern confines
of Dartmoor. Both Will and Phoebe dwelt within the parish, but some distance from the place
itself. She lived at Monks Barton, a farm and mill beside the stream; he shared an adjacent
cottage with his mother and sister. Only a bend of the river separated the dwellings of the
lovers--where Rushford Bridge spanned the Teign and beech and fir rose above it.

In a great glory of clearness after rain, boy and girl moved along together under the trees.
The fisherman's path which they followed wound where wet granite shone and ivy glimmered beneath
the forest; and the leaves still dripped briskly, making a patter of sound through the underwood,
and marking a thousand circles and splashes in the smooth water beneath the banks of the stream.
Against a purple-grey background of past rain the green of high summer shone bright and fresh,
and each moss-clad rock and fern-fringed branch of the forest oaks sent forth its own incense
of slender steam where the sunlight sparkled and sucked up the moisture. Scarce half a mile
from Phoebe's home a shining yellow twig bent and flashed against the green, and a broad back
appeared through a screen of alder by the water's edge.

"'T is a rod," said Will. "Bide a moment, and I'll take the number of his ticket. He 'm the
first fisherman I've seen to-day."

As under-keeper or water-bailiff to the Fishing Association, young Blanchard's work consisted
in endless perambulation of the river's bank, in sharp outlook for poacher and trespasser,
and in the survey of fishermen's bridges, and other contrivances for anglers that occurred
along the winding course of the waters. His also was the duty of noting the license numbers,
and of surprising those immoral anglers who sought to kill fish illegally on distant reaches
of the river. His keen eyes, great activity, and approved pluck well fitted Will for such duties.
He often walked twenty miles a day, and fishermen said that he knew every big trout in the
Teign from Fingle Bridge to the dark pools and rippling steps under Sittaford Tor, near the
river's twin birthplaces. He also knew where the great peel rested, on their annual migration
from sea to moor; where the kingfisher's nest of fish-bones lay hidden; where the otter had
her home beneath the bank, and its inland vent-hole behind a silver birch.

Will bid the angler "good afternoon," and made a few general remarks on sport and the present
unfavourable condition of the water, shrunk to mere ribbons of silver by a long summer drought.
The fisherman was a stranger to Will--a handsome, stalwart man, with a heavy amber moustache,
hard blue eyes, and a skin tanned red by hotter suns than English Augusts know. His disposition,
also, as it seemed, reflected years of a tropic or subtropic existence, for this trivial meeting
and momentary intrusion upon his solitude resulted in an explosion as sudden as unreasonable
and unexpected.

"Keep back, can't you?" he exclaimed, while the young keeper approached his side; "who 's going
to catch fish with your lanky shadow across the water?"

Will was up in arms instantly.

"Do 'e think I doan't knaw my business? Theer 's my shadder 'pon the bank a mile behind you;
an' I didn't ope my mouth till you'd fished the stickle to the bottom and missed two rises."

This criticism angered the elder man, and he freed his tailfly fiercely from the rush-head
that held it.

"Mind your own affairs and get out of my sight, whoever you are. This river's not what it used
to be by a good deal. Over-fished and poached, and not looked after, I'll swear."

Thus, in ignorance, the sportsman uttered words of all most like to set Will Blanchard's temper
loose--a task sufficiently easy at the best of times.

"What the hell d' you knaw 'bout the river?" he flamed out. "And as to 'my affairs,' 't is
my affairs, an' I be water-bailiff, an' I'll thank you for the number of your ticket--so now then!"

"What's become of Morgan?" asked the other.

"He 'm fust, I be second; and 't is my job to take the license numbers."

"Pity you're such an uncivil young cub, then."

"Gimme your ticket directly minute!"

"I'm not going to."

The keeper looked wicked enough by this time, but he made a great effort to hold himself in.

"Why for not?"

"Because I didn't take one."

"That ban't gwaine to do for me."

"Ban't it? Then you'll have to go without any reason. Now run away and don't bleat so loud."

"Look here," retorted Will, going straight up to the fisherman, and taking his measure with
a flashing eye, "You gimme your ticket number or your name an' address, else I'll make 'e."

They counted nearly the same inches, but the angler was the elder, and a man of more powerful
build and massive frame than his younger opponent. His blue eyes and full, broad face spoke
a pugnacity not less pronounced than the keeper's own finer features indicated; and thus these
two, destined for long years to bulk largely each upon the life of the other, stood eye to
eye for the first time. Will's temper was nearly gone, and now another sneer set it loose with
sudden and startling result.

"Make me, my young moorcock? Two more words and I'll throw you across the river!"

The two words were not forthcoming, but Will dropped his stick and shot forward straight and
strong as an angry dog. He closed before the stranger could dispose of his rod, gripped him
with a strong wrestling hold, and cross-buttocked him heavily in the twinkling of an eye. The
big man happily fell without hurt upon soft sand at the river's brink; but the indignity of
this defeat roused his temper effectually. He grinned nevertheless as he rose again, shook
the sand off his face, and licked his hands.

"Good Devon, sure enough, my son; now I'll teach you something you never heard tell of, and
break your damned fool's neck for you into the bargain!"

But Phoebe, who had wandered slowly on, returned quickly at the sound of the scuffle and high
words. Now she fluttered between the combatants and rendered any further encounter for the
time impossible. They could not close again with the girl between them, and the stranger, his
anger holding its breath, glanced at her with sudden interest, stayed his angry growl, suffered
rage to wane out of his eyes and frank admiration to appear in them.

"Doan't be fighting!" cried Phoebe. "Whatever's the mischief, Will? Do bate your speed of hand!
You've thrawed the gentleman down, seemin'ly."

"Wheer 's his ticket to then?"

"Why, it isn't Miller Lyddon's young maid, surely!" burst out the fisherman; "not Phoebe grown
to woman!"

A Devon accent marked the speech, suddenly dragged from him by surprise.

"Ess, I be Phoebe Lyddon; but don't 'e fall 'pon each other again, for the Lard's sake," she said.

"The boy 's as tetchy in temper as a broody hen. I was only joking all the time, and see how
he made me pay for my joke. But to think I should remember you! Grown from bud to pretty blossom,
by God! And I danced you on my knee last time I saw you!"

"Then you 'm wan of they two Grimbal brothers as was to be home again in Chagford to-day!"
exclaimed Will.

"That's so; Martin and I landed at Plymouth yesterday. We got to Chagford early this morning."

Will laughed.

"I never!" he said. "Why, you be lodging with my awn mother at the cottage above Rushford Bridge!
You was expected this marnin', but I couldn't wait for 'e. You 'm Jan Grimbal--eh?"

"Right! And you're a nice host, to be sure!"

"'T is solemn truth, you 'm biding under our roof, the 'Three Crowns' bein' full just now.
And I'm sorry I thrawed 'e; but you was that glumpy, and of course I didn't know 'e from Adam.
I'm Will Blanchard."

"Never mind, Will, we'll try again some day. I could wrestle a bit once, and learned a new
trick or two from a Yankee in Africa."

"You've come back 'mazin' rich they say, Jan Grimbal?"

"So, so. Not millionaires, but all right--both of us, though I'm the snug man of the two. We
got to Africa at the right moment, before 1867, you know, the year that O'Reilly saw a nigger-child
playing with the first Kimberley diamond ever found. Up we went, the pair of us. Things have
hummed since then, and claims and half-claims and quarter-claims are coming to be worth a Jew's
eye. We're all right, anyway, and I've got a stake out there yet."

"You 'm well pleased to come back to dear li'l Chagford after so many years of foreign paarts,
I should think, Mr. Grimbal?" said Phoebe.

"Ay, that I am. There's no place like Devon, in all the earth, and no spot like Chagford in
Devon. I'm too hard grit to wink an eyelid at sight of the old scenes again myself; but Martin,
when he caught first sight of great rolling Cosdon crowning the land--why, his eyes were wetted,
if you'll believe it."

"And you comed right off to fish the river fust thing," said Will admiringly.

"Ay, couldn't help it. When I heard the water calling, it was more than my power to keep away.
But you're cruel short of rain, seemingly, and of course the season 's nearly over."

"I'll shaw you dark hovers, wheer braave feesh be lying yet," promised Will; and the angler
thanked him, foretelling a great friendship. Yet his eyes rarely roamed from Phoebe, and anon,
as all three proceeded, John Grimbal stopped at the gate of Monks Barton and held the girl
in conversation awhile. But first he despatched Will homewards with a message for his mother.
"Let Mrs. Blanchard know we'll feed at seven o'clock off the best that she can get," he said;
"and tell her not to bother about the liquor. I'll see to that myself."

CHAPTER II

A CLEAR UNDERSTANDING

Monks Barton, or Barton Monachorum, as the farm was called in a Tudor perambulation of Chagford,
owed its name to traditions that holy men aforetime dwelt there, performed saintly deeds, and
blessed a spring in the adjacent woods, whose waters from that date ever proved a magical medicament
for "striking" of sore eyes. That the lands of the valley had once been in monastic possession
was, however, probable enough; and some portions of the old farm did in truth rise upon the
ruins of a still more ancient habitation long vanished. Monks Barton stood, a picturesque agglomeration
of buildings, beside the river. The mill-wheel, fed by a stream taken from the Teign some distance
up the valley and here returned again to the parent water, thundered on its solemn round in
an eternal twinkling twilight of dripping ferns and green mosses; while hard by the dwelling-house
stood and offered small diamond panes and one dormer-window to the south. Upon its whitewashed
face three fruit-trees grew--a black plum, a cherry, a winter pear; and before the farmhouse
stretched a yard sloping to the river ford, where a line of massive stepping-stones for foot-passengers
crossed the water. On either side of this space, walled up from the edge of the stream, little
gardens of raspberry and gooseberry bushes spread; and here, too, appeared a few apple-trees,
a bed of herbs, a patch of onions, purple cabbages, and a giant hollyhock with sulphur-coloured
blossoms that thrust his proud head upwards, a gentleman at large, and the practical countrymen
of the kitchen-garden. The mill and outbuildings, the homestead and wood-stacks embraced a
whole gamut of fine colour, ranging from the tawny and crimson of fretted brick and tile to
varied greys of drying timber; from the cushions and pillows of moss and embroidery of houseleeks
and valerian, that had flourished for fifty years on a ruined shippen, to the silver gleam
of old thatches and the shining gold of new. Nor was the white face of the dwelling-house amiss.
Only one cold, crude eye stared out from this time-tinctured scene; only one raw pentroof of
corrugated iron blotted it, made poets sigh, artists swear, and Miller Lyddon contemplate more
of the same upon his land.

A clucking and grunting concourse of fowls and pigs shared the farmyard; blue pigeons claimed
the roof; and now, in the westering light, with slow foot, sweet breath, and swelling udder,
many kine, red as the ripe horse-chestnut, followed each other across the ford, assembled themselves
together and lowed musically to the milkers. Phoebe Lyddon and John Grimbal still stood at
the farm-gate, and they watched, as a boy and an aged man came forward with buckets and stools.
Then, to the muffled thud of the water-wheel and the drone and murmur of the river, was added
a purr of milk, foaming into tin pails, and sharp, thin monitions from the ancient, as he called
the cows by their names and bid them be still.

In John Grimbal, newly come from South Africa, this scene awakened a lively satisfaction and
delight. It told him that he was home again; and so did the girl, though it seemed absurd to
think that Phoebe had ever sat upon his knee and heard his big stories, when as yet he himself
was a boy and the world still spread before him unconquered. He mused at the change and looked
forward to bringing himself and his success in life before those who had known him in the past.
He very well remembered who had encouraged his ambitions and spoken words of kindness and of
hope; who also had sneered, criticised his designs unfavourably, and thrown cold water upon
his projects. John Grimbal meant to make certain souls smart as he had smarted; but he feared
his brother a little in this connection, and suspected that Martin would not assert himself
among the friends of his youth, would not assume a position his riches warranted, would be
content with too humble a manner of life.

As a matter of fact, the ambition of neither extended much beyond a life of peace among the
scenes of his childhood; but while the younger traveller returned with unuttered thanksgivings
in his heart that he was privileged again to see the land he loved and henceforth dwell amid
its cherished scenes, the greater energy and wider ambition of his brother planned a position
of some prominence if not power. John was above all else a sportsman, and his programme embraced
land, a stout new dwelling-house, preserves of game in a small way, some fishing, and the formation
of a new rifle-corps at Chagford. This last enterprise he intended to be the serious business
of life; but his mind was open to any new, agreeable impressions and, indeed, it received them
at every turn. Phoebe Lyddon awoke a very vital train of thoughts, and when he left her, promising
to come with his brother on the following day to see the miller, John Grimbal's impressionable
heart was stamped with her pretty image, his ear still held the melody of her voice.

He crossed the stepping-stones, sat down upon the bank to change his flies, and looked at the
home of Phoebe without sentiment, yet not without pleasure. It lay all cuddled on the bosom
of a green hill; to the west stretched meadows and orchard along the winding valley of the
river; to the east extended more grass-land that emerged into ferny coombs and glades and river
dells, all alive with the light of wild flowers and the music of birds, with the play of dusky
sunshine in the still water, and of shadows on the shore.

A little procession of white ducks sailed slowly up the river, and each as it passed twisted
its head to peer up at the spectator. Presently the drake who led them touched bottom, and
his red-gold webs appeared. Then he paddled ashore, lifted up his voice, waggled his tail,
and with a crescendo of quacking conducted his harem into the farmyard. One lone Muscovy duck,
perchance emulating the holy men of old in their self-communion, or else constrained by circumstance
to a solitary life, appeared apart on a little island under the alders. A stranger in a strange
land, he sat with bent head and red-rimmed, philosophic eyes, regarding his own breast while
sunset lights fired the metallic lustre of his motley. Quite close to him a dead branch thrust
upwards from the water, and the river swirled in oily play of wrinkles and dimples beyond it.
Here, with some approach to his old skill, the angler presently cast a small brown moth. It
fell lightly and neatly, cocked for a second, then turned helplessly over, wrecked in the sudden
eddy as a natural insect had been. A fearless rise followed, and in less than half a minute
a small trout was in the angler's net. John Grimbal landed this little fish carefully and regarded
it with huge satisfaction before returning it to the river. Then, having accomplished the task
set by sudden desire,--to catch a Teign trout again, feel it, smell it, see the ebony and crimson,
the silver belly warming to gold on its sides and darkening to brown and olive above,--having
by this act renewed sensations that had slept for fifteen years, he put up his rod and returned
to his temporary quarters at the dwelling of Mrs. Blanchard.

His brother was waiting in the little garden to welcome him. Martin walked up and down, smelled
the flowers, and gazed with sober delight upon the surrounding scene. Already sunset fires
had waned; but the high top of the fir that crowned Rushford Bridge still glowed with a great
light on its red bark; an uprising Whiddon, where it lay afar off under the crown of Cranbrook,
likewise shone out above the shadowed valley.

Martin Grimbal approached his brother and laid his hand upon the fisherman's arm. He stood
the smaller in stature, though of strong build. His clean-shaved face had burned much darker
than John's; he was indeed coffee-brown and might have been mistaken for an Indian but for
his eyes of ordinary slate-grey. Without any pretension to good looks, Martin Grimbal displayed
what was better--an expression of such frank benignity and goodness that his kind trusted him
and relied upon him by intuition. Honest and true to the verge of quixotism was this man in
all dealings with his fellows, yet he proved a faulty student of character. First he was in
a measure blinded by his own amiable qualities to acute knowledge of human nature; secondly,
he was drawn away from humanity rather than not, for no cynic reason, but by the character
of his personal predilections and pursuits.

"I've seen father's grave, John," were his first words to his brother. "It's beside the mother's,
but that old stone he put up to her must be moved and--"

"All right, all right, old chap. Stones are in your line, not mine. Where's dinner? I want
bread, not a stone, eh?"

Martin did not laugh, but shrugged his shoulders in good-tempered fashion. His face had a measure
of distinction his brother's lacked, and indeed, while wanting John's tremendous physical energy
and robust determination, he possessed a finer intellect and instinct less animal. Even abroad,
during their earlier enterprises, Martin had first provided brains sufficient for himself and
John; but an accident of fortune suddenly favoured the elder; and while John took full care
that Martin should benefit with himself, he was pleased henceforth to read into his superior
luck a revelation of superior intelligence, and from that moment followed his own inclinations
and judgment. He liked Martin no less, but never turned to him for counsel again after his
own accidental good fortune; and henceforward assumed an elder brother's manner and a show
of superior wisdom. In matters of the world and in knowledge of such human character as shall
be found to congregate in civilisation's van, or where precious metals and precious stones
have been discovered to abound, John Grimbal was undoubtedly the shrewder, more experienced
man; and Martin felt very well content that his elder brother should take the lead. Since the
advent of their prosperity a lively gratitude had animated his mind. The twain shared nothing
save bonds of blood, love of their native land, and parity of ambition, first manifested in
early desires to become independent. Together they had gone abroad, together they returned;
and now each according to his genius designed to seek happiness where he expected to find it.
John still held interests in South Africa, but Martin, content with less fortune, and mighty
anxious to be free of all further business, realised his wealth and now knew the limits of
his income.

The brothers supped in good spirits and Will Blanchard's sister waited upon them. Chris was
her "brother in petticoats," people said, and indeed she resembled him greatly in face and
disposition. But her eyes were brown, like her dead father's, and a gypsy splendour of black
hair crowned her head. She was a year younger than Will, wholly wrapped up in him and one other.

A familiarity, shy on Martin's side and patronising in John, obtained between the brothers
and their pretty attendant, for she knew all about them and the very cottage in which their
parents had dwelt and died. The girl came and went, answered John Grimbal's jests readily,
and ministered to them as one not inferior to those she served. The elder man's blue eyes were
full of earthy admiration. He picked his teeth between the courses and admired aloud, while
Chris was from the room.

"'Tis wonderful how pretty all the women look, coming back to them after ten years of nigger
girls. Roses and cream isn't in it with their skins, though this one's dark as a clear night--Spanish
fashion."

"Miss Blanchard seems very beautiful to me certainly," admitted Martin.

"I've seen only two maids--since setting foot in Chagford," continued his brother, "and it
would puzzle the devil to say which was best to look at."

"Your heart will soon be lost, I'll wager--to a Chagford girl, I hope. I know you talked about
flying high, but you might be happier to take a mate from--well, you understand."

"It's all very well to build theories on board ship about bettering myself socially and all
that, but it's rot; I'll be knocked over by one of the country witches, I know I shall,--I
feel it. I love the sound of the Devon on their lips, and the clear eyes of them, and the bright
skin. 'Tis all I can do to keep from hugging the women, and that's a fact. But you, you cold-blooded
beggar, your heart's still for the grey granite and the old ghostly stones, and creepy, lonely
places on the Moor! We're that different, you and me."

Martin nodded thoughtfully, and, the meal being now ended, both men strolled out of doors,
then wandered down to smoke a pipe on Rushford Bridge and listen to the nightly murmur of the
river. Darkness moved on the face of land and water; twilight had sucked all the colour away
from the valley; and through the deepening monochrome of the murk there passed white mists
with shadowy hands, and peeped blind pale eyes along the winding water, where its surface reflected
the faded west. Nocturnal magic conjured the least meadow into an unmeasured sea of vapour;
awoke naiads in the waters and dryads in the woods; transformed the solemn organ music of great
beetles into songs of a roaming spirit; set unseen shapes stirring in the starlight; whispered
of invisible, enchanted things, happy and unhappy, behind the silence.

A man moved from the bridge as the brothers reached it. Then Will Blanchard, knocking out his
pipe and taking a big inspiration, set his face steadily toward Monks Barton and that vital
interview with Miller Lyddon now standing in the pathway of his life.

He rapped at the farm door and a step came slowly down the stone-paved passage. Then Billy
Blee, the miller's right-hand man, opened to him. Bent he was from the small of the back, with
a highly coloured, much wrinkled visage, and ginger hair, bleached by time to a paler shade.
His poll was bald and shining, and thick yellow whiskers met beneath a clean-shorn chin. Billy's
shaggy eyebrows, little bright eyes, and long upper lip, taken with the tawny fringe under
his chops, gave him the look of an ancient and gigantic lion-monkey; and indeed there was not
lacking in him an ape-like twist, as shall appear.

"Hullo! boy Blanchard! An' what might you want?" he asked.

"To see Miller."

"Come in then; we'm all alone in kitchen, him and me, awver our grog and game. What's the matter
now?"

"A private word for Miller's ear," said Will cautiously.

"Come you in then. Us'll do what we may for 'e. Auld heads be the best stepping-stones young
folks can have, understood right; awnly the likes of you mostly chooses to splash through life
on your awn damn silly roads."

Mr. Blee, whose friendship and familiarity with his master was of the closest, led on, and
Will soon stood before Mr. Lyddon.

The man who owned Monks Barton, and who there prosperously combined the callings of farmer
and miller, had long enjoyed the esteem of the neighbourhood in which he dwelt, as had his
ancestors before him, through many generations. He had won reputation for a sort of silent
wisdom. He never advised any man ill, never hesitated to do a kindly action, and himself contrived
to prosper year in, year out, no matter what period of depression might be passing over Chagford.
Vincent Lyddon was a widower of sixty-five--a grey, thin, tall man, slow of speech and sleepy
of eye. A weak mouth, and a high, round forehead, far smoother than his age had promised, were
distinguishing physical features of him. His wife had been dead eighteen years, and of his
two children one only survived. The elder, a boy toddling in early childhood at the water's
edge, was unmissed until too late, and found drowned next day after a terrible night of agony
for both parents. Indeed, Mrs. Lyddon never recovered from the shock, and Phoebe was but a
year old when her mother died. Further, it need only be mentioned that the miller had heard
of Will's courting more than once, but absolutely refused to allow the matter serious consideration.
The romance was no more than philandering of children in his eyes.

"Will--eh? Well, my son, and how can I serve you?" asked the master of Monks Barton, kindly
enough. He recrossed his legs, settled in his leather chair, and continued the smoking of a
long clay pipe.

"Just this, Mr. Lyddon," began Will abruptly. "You calls me your 'son' as a manner o' speech,
but I wants to be no less in fact."

"You ban't here on that fool's errand, bwoy, surely? I thought I'd made my mind clear enough
to Phoebe six months ago."

"Look you here now. I be earnin' eighteen shillings a week an' a bit awver; an' I be sure of
Morgan's berth as head-keeper presently; an' I'm a man as thinks."

"That's brave talk, but what have 'e saved, lad?" inquired Mr. Blee.

The lover looked round at him sharply.

"I thought you was out the room," he said. "I be come to talk to Miller, not you."

"Nay, nay, Billy can stay and see I'm not tu hard 'pon 'e," declared Mr. Lyddon. "He axed a
proper question. What's put by to goody in the savings' bank, Will?"

"Well--five pounds; and 't will be rose to ten by Christmas, I assure 'e."

"Fi' puns! an' how far 's that gwaine?"

"So far as us can make it, in coourse."

"Doan't you see, sonny, this ban't a fair bargain? I'm not a hard man--"

"By gor! not hard enough by a powerful deal," said Billy.

"Not hard on youth; but this match, so to call it, looks like mere moonshine. Theer 's nought
to it I can see--both childer, and neither with as much sense as might sink a floatin' straw."

"We love each other wi' all our hearts and have done more 'n half a year. Ban't that nothing?"

"I married when I was forty-two," remarked the miller, reflectively, looking down at his fox-head
slippers, the work of Phoebe's fingers.

"An' a purty marryin' time tu!" declared Mr. Blee. "Look at me," he continued, "parlous near
seventy, and a bacherlor-man yet."

"Not but Widow Comstock will have 'e if you ax her a bit oftener. Us all knows that," said
the young lover, with great stratagem.

Billy chuckled, and rubbed his wrinkles.

"Time enough, time enough," he answered, "but you--scarce out o' clouts--why, 't is playin'
at a holy thing, that's what 't is--same as Miss Phoebe, when she was a li'l wee cheel, played
at bein' parson in her night-gownd, and got welted for it, tu, by her gude faither."

"We 'm both in earnest anyway--me and Phoebe."

"So am I," replied the miller, sitting up and putting down his pipe; "so am I in earnest, and
wan word 's gude as a hunderd in a pass like this. You must hear the truth, an' that never
broke no bones. You 'm no more fitted to have a wife than that tobacco-jar--a hot-headed, wild-fire
of a bwoy--"

"A right Jack-o'-Lantern, as everybody knaws," suggested Mr. Blee.

"Ess fay, 'tis truth. Shifting and oncertain as the marsh gallopers on the moor bogs of a summer
night. Awnly a youth's faults, you mind; but still faults. No, no, my lad, you've got to fight
your life's battle and win it, 'fore you'm a mate for any gal; an' you've got to begin by fightin'
yourself, an' breaking an' taming yourself, an' getting yourself well in hand. That's a matter
of more than months for the best of us."

"And then?" said Will, "after 'tis done? though I'm not allowin' I'm anything but a ripe man
as I stand here afore you now."

"Then I'd say, 'I'm glad to see you grawed into a credit to us all, Will Blanchard, and worth
your place in the order o' things; but you doan't marry Phoebe Lyddon--never, never, never,
not while I'm above ground.'"

His slow eyes looked calmly and kindly at Will, and he smiled into the hot, young, furious face.

"That's your last word then?"

"It is, my lad."

"And you won't give a reason?"

"The reason is, 'what's bred in the bone comes out in the flesh.' I knawed your faither. You'm
as volatile as him wi'out his better paarts."

"Leave him wheer he lies--underground. If he'd lived 'stead of bein' cut off from life, you'd
'a' bin proud to knaw him."

"A gypsy-man and no better, Will," said Mr. Blee. "Not but what he made a gude end, I allow."

"Then I'll be up and away. I've spoke 'e fair, Miller--fair an' straight--an' so you to me.
You won't allow this match. Then we'll wed wi'out your blessin', an' sorry I shall be."

"If that's your tune, my young rascal, I'll speak again! Phoebe's under age, remember that,
and so sure as you dare take her a yard from her awn door you'll suffer for it. 'Tis a clink
job, you mind--a prison business; and what's more, you 'm pleased to speak so plain that I
will tu, and tell 'e this. If you dare to lift up your eyes to my child again, or stop her
in the way, or have speech with her, I'll set p'liceman 'pon 'e! For a year and more she 'm
not her awn mistress; and, at the end of that time, if she doan't get better sense than to
tinker arter a harum-scarum young jackanapes like you, she ban't a true Lyddon. Now be off
with 'e an' doan't dare to look same way Phoebe 's walkin', no more, else theer'll be trouble
for 'e."

"Wonnerful language, an' in a nutshell," commented Billy, as, blowing rather hard, the miller
made an end of his warning.

"Us'll leave it theer, then, Mr. Lyddon; and you'll live to be sorry ever you said them words
to me. Ess fay, you'll live to sing different; for when two 's set 'pon a matter o' marryin',
ban't fathers nor mothers, nor yet angels, be gwaine to part 'em. Phoebe an' me will be man
an' wife some day, sure 's the sun 's brighter 'n the mune. So now you knaw. Gude night to 'e."

He took up his hat and departed; Billy held up his hands in mute amazement; but the miller
showed no emotion and relighted his pipe.

"The rising generation do take my breath away twenty times a day," said Mr. Blee. "To think
o' that bwoy, in li'l frocks awnly yesterday, standin' theer frontin' two aged men wi' such
bouldacious language!"

"What would you do, Billy, if the gal was yourn?"

"Same as you, to a hair. Bid her drop the chap for gude 'n all. But theer 's devil's pepper
in that Blanchard. He ain't done with yet."

"Well, well, he won't shorten my sleep, I promise you. Near two years is a long time to the
young. Lord knaws wheer a light thing like him will be blawed to, come two years. Time 's on
my side for certain. And Phoebe 's like to change also."

"Why, a woman's mind 's no more 'n a feather in a gale of wind at her time o' life; though
to tell her so 's the sure way to make her steadfast."

A moment later Phoebe herself entered. She had heard Will depart and now, in a fever of impatience,
crept with bright, questioning eyes to her father's chair. Whereupon Mr. Blee withdrew in a
violent hurry. No one audibly desired him to do so, but a side-look from the girl was enough.

CHAPTER III

EXIT WILL

Phoebe's conversation with her father occupied a space of time extending over just two minutes.
He met her eager eyes with a smile, patted her head, pinched her ear, and by his manner awakened
a delicious flutter of hope in the girl before he spoke. When, therefore, Phoebe learned that
Will was sent about his business for ever, and must henceforth be wholly dismissed from her
mind, the shock and disappointment of such intelligence came as a cruel blow. She stood silent
and thunderstruck before Miller Lyddon, a world of reproaches in her frightened eyes; then
mutely the corners of her little mouth sank as she turned away and departed with her first
great sorrow.

Phoebe's earliest frantic thought had been to fly to Will, but she knew such a thing was impossible.
There would surely be a letter from him on the following morning hidden within their secret
pillar-box between two bricks of the mill wall. For that she must wait, and even in her misery
she was glad that with Will, not herself, lay decision as to future action. She had expected
some delay; she had believed that her father would impose stern restrictions of time and make
a variety of conditions with her sweetheart; she had even hoped that Miller Lyddon might command
lengthened patience for the sake of her headstrong, erratic Will's temper and character; but
that he was to be banished in this crushing and summary fashion overwhelmed Phoebe, and that
utterly. Her nature, however, was not one nourished from any very deep wells of character.
She belonged to a class who suffer bitterly enough under sorrow, but the storm of it while
tearing like a tropical tornado over heart and soul, leaves no traces that lapse of time cannot
wholly and speedily obliterate. On them it may be said that fortune's sharpest strokes inflict
no lasting scars; their dispositions are happily powerless to harbour the sustained agony that
burrows and gnaws, poisons man's estimate of all human affairs, wrecks the stores of his experience,
and stamps the cicatrix of a live, burning grief on brow and brain for ever. They find their
own misery sufficiently exalted; but their temperament is unable to sustain a lifelong tribulation
or elevate sorrow into tragedy. And their state is the more blessed. So Phoebe watered her
couch with tears, prayed to God to hear her solemn promises of eternal fidelity, then slept
and passed into a brief dreamland beyond sorrow's reach.

Meantime young Blanchard took his stormy heart into a night of stars. The moon had risen; the
sky was clear; the silvery silence remained unbroken save for the sound of the river, where
it flowed under the shadows of great trees and beneath aerial bridges and banners of the meadow
mists. Will strode through this scene, past his mother's cottage, and up a hill behind it,
into the village. His mind presented in turn a dozen courses of action, and each was built
upon the abiding foundation of Phoebe's sure faithfulness. That she would cling to him for
ever the young man knew right well; no thought of a rival, therefore, entered into his calculations.
The sole problem was how quickest to make Mr. Lyddon change his mind; how best to order his
future that the miller should regard him as a responsible person, and one of weight in affairs.
Not that Will held himself a slight man by any means; but he felt that he must straightway
assert his individuality and convince the world in general and Miller Lyddon in particular
of faulty judgment. He was very angry still as he retraced the recent conversation. Then, among
those various fancies and projects in his mind, the wildest and most foolish stood out before
him as both expedient and to be desired. His purpose in Chagford was to get advice from another
man; but before he reached the village his own mind was established.

Slated and thatched roofs glimmered under moonlight, and already the hamlet slept. A few cats
crept like shadows through the deserted streets, from darkness into light, from light back
to darkness; and one cottage window, before which Will Blanchard stood, still showed a candle
behind a white blind. Most quaint and ancient was this habitation--of picturesque build, with
tiny granite porch, small entrance, and venerable thatches that hung low above the upper windows.
A few tall balsams quite served to fill the garden; indeed so small was it that from the roadway
young Blanchard, by bending over the wooden fence, could easily reach the cottage window. This
he did, tapped lightly, and then waited for the door to be opened.

A man presently appeared and showed some surprise at the sight of his late visitor.

"Let me in, Clem," said Will. "I knawed you'd be up, sitting readin' and dreamin'. 'T is no
dreamin' time for me though, by God! I be corned straight from seeing Miller 'bout Phoebe."

"Then I can very well guess what was last in your ears."

Clement Hicks spoke in an educated voice. He was smaller than Will but evidently older. Somewhat
narrow of build and thin, he looked delicate, though in reality wiry and sound. He was dark
of complexion, wore his hair long for a cottager, and kept both moustache and beard, though
the latter was very scant and showed the outline of his small chin through it. A forehead remarkably
lofty but not broad, mounted almost perpendicularly above the man's eyes; and these were large
and dark and full of fire, though marred by a discontented expression. His mouth was full-lipped,
his other features huddled rather meanly together under the high brow: but his face, while
admittedly plain even to ugliness, was not commonplace; for its eyes were remarkable, and the
cast of thought ennobled it as a whole.

Will entered the cottage kitchen and began instantly to unfold his experiences.

"You knaw me--a man with a level head, as leaps after looking, not afore. I put nothing but
plain reason to him and he flouted me like you might a cheel. An' I be gwaine to make him eat
his words--such hard words as they was tu! Think of it! Me an' Phoebe never to meet no more!
The folly of sayin' such a thing! Wouldn't 'e reckon that grey hairs knawed better than to
fancy words can keep lovers apart?"

"Grey hairs cover old brains; and old brains forget what it feels like to have a body full
o' young blood. The best memory can't keep the feeling of youth fresh in a man."

"Well, I ban't the hot-headed twoad Miller Lyddon thinks, or pretends he thinks, anyway. I'll
shaw un! I can wait, an' Phoebe can wait, an' now she'll have to. I'm gwaine away."

"Going away. Why?"

"To shaw what 's in me. I ban't sorry for this for some things. Now no man shall say that I'm
a home-stayin' gaby, tramping up an' down Teign Vale for a living. I'll step out into the wide
world, same as them Grimbals done. They 'm back again made of money, the pair of 'em."

"It took them fifteen years and more, and they were marvellously lucky."

"What then? I'm as like to fare well as they. I've worked out a far-reaching plan, but the
first step I've thought on 's terrible coorious, an' I reckon nobody but you'd see how it led
to better things. But you 'm book-larned and wise in your way, though I wish your wisdom had
done more for yourself than it has. Anyway, you 'm tokened to Chris and will be one of the
family some day perhaps when Mother Coomstock dies, so I'll leave my secret with you. But not
a soul else--not mother even. So you must swear you'll never tell to man or woman or cheel
what I've done and wheer I be gone."

"I'll swear if you like."

"By the livin' God."

"By any God you believe is alive."

"Say it, then."

"By the living God, I, Clement Hicks, bee-master of Chagford, Devon, swear to keep the secret
of my friend and neighbour, William Blanchard, whatever it is."

"And may He tear the life out of you if you so much as think to tell."

Hicks laughed and shook his hair from his forehead.

"You're suspicious of the best friend you've got in the world."

"Not a spark. But I want you to see what an awful solemn thing I reckon it."

"Then may God rot me, and plague me, and let me roast in hell-fire with the rogues for ever
and a day, if I so much as whisper your news to man or mouse! There, will that do?"

"No call to drag in hell fire, 'cause I knaw you doan't set no count on it. More doan't I.
Hell's cold ashes now if all what you ve said is true. But you've sworn all right and now I'll
tell 'e."

He bent forward and whispered in the other's ear, whereon Hicks started in evident amazement
and showed himself much concerned.

"Good Heavens! Man alive, are you mad?"

"You doan't 'zactly look on ahead enough, Clem," said Will loftily. "Ban't the thing itself's
gwaine to make a fortune, but what comes of it. 'Tis a tidy stepping-stone lead-in' to gert
matters very often, as your books tell, I dare say."

"It can't lead to anything whatever in your case but wasted years."

"I'm best judge of that. I've planned the road, and if I ban't home again inside ten year as
good a man as Grimbal or any other I'll say I was wrong."

"You're a bigger fool than even I thought, Blanchard."

Will's eye flashed.

"You 'm a tidy judge of a fule, I grant," he said angrily, "or should be. But you 'm awnly
wan more against me. You'll see you 'm wrong like the rest. Anyway, you've got to mind what
you've sweared. An' when mother an' Chris ax 'e wheer I be, I'll thank you to say I'm out in
the world doin' braave, an' no more."

"As you like. It 's idle, I know, trying to make you change your mind."

A thin voice from an upper chamber of the cottage here interrupted their colloquy, and the
mother of the bee-keeper reminded him that he was due early on the following day at Okehampton
with honey, and that he ought long since to be asleep.

"If that's Will Blanchard," she concluded, "tell un to be off home to bed. What 's the wisdom
o' turning night hours into day like this here?"

"All right, mother," shouted Will. "Gude-night to 'e. I be off this moment."

Then bidding his friend farewell, he departed.

"Doan't think twice o' what I said a minute since. I was hot 'cause you couldn't see no wisdom
in my plan. But that's the way of folks. They belittle a chap's best thoughts and acts till
the time comes for luck to turn an' bring the fruit; then them as scoffed be the first to turn
round smilin' an' handshaking and sayin', 'What did us say? Didn't us tell 'e so from the very
beginning?'"

Away went the youthful water-keeper, inspired with the prospect of his contemplated flight.
He strode home at a rapid pace, to find all lights out and the household in bed. Then he drank
half a pint of cider, ate some bread and cheese, and set about a letter to Phoebe.

A little desk on a side-table, the common property of himself, his mother, and sister, was
soon opened, and materials found. Then, in his own uncial characters, that always tended hopefully
upward, and thus left a triangle of untouched paper at the bottom of every sheet, Will wrote
a letter of two folios, or eight complete pages. In this he repeated the points of his conversation
with Phoebe's father, told her to be patient, and announced that, satisfied of her unfailing
love and steadfastness through all, he was about to pass into the wider world, and carve his
way to prosperity and fortune. He hid particulars from her, but mentioned that Clement Hicks
would forward any communications. Finally he bid her keep a stout heart and live contented
in the certainty of ultimate happiness. He also advised Phoebe to forgive her father. "I have
already done it, honor bright," he wrote; "'t is a wise man's part to bear no malice, especially
against an old grey body whose judgment 'pears to be gone bad for some reason." He also assured
Phoebe that he was hers until death should separate them; in a postscript he desired her to
break his departure softly to his mother if opportunity to do so occurred; and, finally, he
was not ashamed to fill the empty triangles on each page with kisses, represented by triangles
closely packed. Bearing this important communication, Will walked out again into the night,
and soon his letter awaited Phoebe in the usual receptacle. He felt therein himself, half suspecting
a note might await him, but there was nothing. He hesitated for a moment, then climbed the
gate into Monks Barton farmyard, went softly and stood in the dark shadow of the mill-house.
The moon shone full upon the face of the dwelling, and its three fruit-trees looked as though
painted in profound black against the pale whitewash; while Phoebe's dormer-window framed the
splendour of the reflected sky, and shone very brightly. The blind was down, and the maiden
behind it had been asleep an hour or two; but Will pictured her as sobbing her heart out still.
Perhaps he would never see her again. The path he had chosen to follow might take him over
seas and through vast perils; indeed, it must do so if the success he desired was to be won.
He felt something almost like a catch in his throat as he turned away and crossed the sleeping
river. He glanced down through dreaming glades and saw one motionless silver spot on the dark
waters beneath the alders. Sentiment was at its flood just then, and he spoke a few words under
his breath. "'Tis thicky auld Muscovy duck, roostin' on his li'l island; poor lone devil wi'
never a mate to fight for nor friend to swim along with. Worse case than mine, come to think
on it!" Then an emotion, rare enough with him, vanished, and he sniffed the night air and felt
his heart beat high at thoughts of what lay ahead.

Will returned home, made fast the outer door, took off his boots, and went softly up a creaking
stair. Loud and steady music came from the room where John Grimbal lay, and Blanchard smiled
when he heard it. "'Tis the snore of a happy man with money in his purse," he thought. Then
he stood by his mother's door, which she always kept ajar at night, and peeped in upon her.
Damaris Blanchard slumbered with one arm on the coverlet, the other behind her head. She was
a handsome woman still, and looked younger than her eight-and-forty years in the soft ambient
light. "Muneshine do make dear mother so purty as a queen," said Will to himself. And he would
never wish her "good-by," perhaps never see her again. He hastened with light, impulsive step
into the room, thinking just to kiss the hand on the bed, but his mother stirred instantly
and cried, "Who's theer?" with sleepy voice. Then she sat up and listened--a fair, grey-eyed
woman in an old-fashioned night-cap. Her son had vanished before her eyes were opened, and
now she turned and yawned and slept again.

Will entered his own chamber near at hand, doffed for ever the velveteen uniform of water-keeper,
and brought from a drawer an old suit of corduroy. Next he counted his slight store of money,
set his 'alarum' for four o'clock, and, fifteen minutes later, was in bed and asleep, the time
then being a little after midnight.

CHAPTER IV

BY THE RIVER

Clement Hicks paid an early visit to Will's home upon the following morning. He had already
set out to Okehampton with ten pounds of honey in the comb, and at Mrs. Blanchard's cottage
he stopped the little public vehicle which ran on market-days to the distant town. That the
son of the house was up and away at dawn told his family nothing, for his movements were at
all times erratic, and part of his duty consisted in appearing on the river at uncertain times
and in unexpected localities. Clement Hicks often called for a moment upon his way to market,
and Chris, who now greeted her lover, felt puzzled at the unusual gravity of his face. She
turned pale when she heard his tremendous news; but the mother was of more Spartan temperament
and received intelligence of Will's achievement without changing colour or ceasing from her
occupation.

Between Damaris Blanchard and her boy had always existed a perfect harmony of understanding,
rare even in their beautiful relationship. The thoughts of son and mother chimed; not seldom
they anticipated each other's words. The woman saw much of her dead husband reflected in Will
and felt a moral conviction that through the storms of youth, high temper, and inexperience,
he would surely pass to good things, by reason of the strenuous honesty and singleness of purpose
that actuated him; he, on his side, admired the great calmness and self-possession of his mother.
She was so steadfast, so strong, and wiser than any woman he had ever seen. With a fierce,
volcanic affection Will Blanchard loved her. She and Phoebe alike shared his whole heart.

"It is a manly way of life he has chosen, and that is all I may say. He is ambitious and strong,
and I should be the last to think he has not done well to go into the world for a while," said
Clement.

"When is he coming back again?" asked Chris.

"He spoke of ten years or so."

"Then 'twill be more or less," declared Mrs. Blanchard, calmly. "Maybe a month, maybe five
years, or fifteen, not ten, if he said ten. He'll shaw the gude gold he's made of, whether
or no. I'm happy in this and not surprised. 'Twas very like to come arter last night, if things
went crooked."

"'Tis much as faither might have done," said Chris.

"'Tis much what he did do. Thank you for calling, Clem Hicks. Now best be away, else they'll
drive off to Okehampton without 'e."

Clement departed, Chris wept as the full extent of her loss was impressed upon her, and Mrs.
Blanchard went up to her son's room. There she discovered the velveteen suit with a card upon
them: "Hand over to Mr. Morgan, Head Water-keeper, Sandypark." She looked through his things,
and found that he had taken nothing but his money, one suit of working clothes, and a red tie--her
present to him on his birthday during the previous month. All his other possessions remained
in their usual places. With none to see, the woman's eye moistened; then she sat down on Will's
bed and her heart grew weak for one brief moment as she pictured him fighting the battle. It
hurt her a little that he had told Clement Hicks his intention and hid it from his mother.
Yet as a son, at least, he had never failed. However, all affairs of life were a matter of
waiting, more or less, she told herself; and patience was easier to Damaris Blanchard than
to most people. Under her highest uneasiness, maternal pride throbbed at thought of the manly
independence indicated by her son's action. She returned to the duties of the day, but found
herself restless, while continually admonishing Chris not to be so. Her thoughts drifted to
Monks Barton and Will's meeting with his sweetheart's father. Presently, when her daughter
went up to the village, Mrs. Blanchard put off her apron, donned the cotton sunbonnet that
she always wore from choice, and walked over to see Mr. Lyddon. They were old friends, and
presently Damaris listened sedately to the miller without taking offence at his directness
of speech. He told the story of his decision and Will's final reply, while she nodded and even
smiled once or twice in the course of the narrative.

"You was both right, I reckon," she said placidly, looking into Mr. Lyddon's face. "You was
wise to mistrust, not knawin' what's at the root of him; and he, being as he is, was in the
right to tell 'e the race goes to the young. Wheer two hearts is bent on joining, 'tis join
they will--if both keeps of a mind long enough."

"That's it, Damaris Blanchard; who's gwaine to b'lieve that a bwoy an' gal, like Will an' Phoebe,
do knaw theer minds? Mark me, they'll both chaange sweethearts a score of times yet 'fore they
come to mate."

"Caan't speak for your darter, Lyddon; but I knaw my son. A masterful bwoy, like his faither
before him, wild sometimes an' wayward tu, but not with women-folk. His faither loved in wan
plaace awnly. He'll be true to your cheel whatever betides, or I'm a fule."

"What's the use of that if he ban't true to himself? No, no, I caan't see a happy ending to
the tale however you look at it. Wish I could. I fear't was a ugly star twinkled awver his
birthplace, ma'am."

"'Twas all the stars of heaven, Miller," said the mother, frankly, "for he was born in my husband's
caravan in the auld days. We was camped up on the Moor, drawn into one of them roundy-poundies
o' grey granite stones set up by Phoenicians at the beginning of the world. Ess fay, a braave
shiny night, wi' the li'l windows thrawed open to give me air. An' 'pon Will's come-of-age
birthday, last month, if us didn't all drive up theer an' light a fire an' drink a dish of
tea in the identical spot! 'Tis out Newtake' way."

"Like a story-book."

"'Twas Clem Hicks, his thought, being a fanciful man. But I'll bid you gude-marnin' now. Awnly
mind this, as between friends and without a spark of malice: Will Blanchard means to marry
your maid, sure as you'm born, if awnly she keeps strong for him. It rests with her, Miller,
not you."

"Much what your son said in sharper words. Well, you'm out o' reckoning for once, wise though
you be most times; for if a maiden's happiness doan't rest with her faither, blamed if I see
wheer it should. And to think such a man as me doan't knaw wiser 'n two childern who caan't
number forty year between 'em is flat fulishness, surely?"

"I knaw Will," said Mrs. Blanchard, slowly and emphatically; "I knaw un to the core, and that's
to say more than you or anybody else can. A mother may read her son like print, but no faither
can see to the bottom of a wife-old daughter--not if he was Solomon's self. So us'll wait an'
watch wi'out being worse friends."

She went home again the happier for her conversation; but any thought that Mr. Lyddon might
have been disposed to devote to her prophecy was for the time banished by the advent of John
Grimbal and his brother.

Like boys home from school, they dwelt in the present delight of their return, and postponed
the varied duties awaiting them, to revel again in the old sights, sounds, and scents. To-day
they were about an angling excursion, and the fishers' road to Fingle lying through Monks Barton,
both brothers stopped a while and waited upon their old friend of the mill, according to John's
promise of the previous afternoon. Martin carried the creel and the ample luncheon it contained;
John smoked a strong cigar and was only encumbered with his light fly-rod; the younger designed
to accompany his brother through Fingle Valley; then leave him there, about his sport, and
proceed alone to various places of natural and antiquarian interest. But John meant fishing
and nothing else. To him great woods were no more than cover for fur and feathers; rivers and
streams meant a vehicle for the display of a fly to trout, and only attracted him or the reverse,
according to the fish they harboured. When the moorland waters spouted and churned, cherry
red from their springs in the peat, he deemed them a noble spectacle; when, as at present,
Teign herself had shrunk to a mere silver thread, and the fingerling trout splashed and wriggled
half out of water in the shallows, he freely criticised its scanty volume and meagre depths.

Miller Lyddon welcomed the men very heartily. He had been amongst those who dismissed them
with hope to their battle against the world, and now he reminded them of his sanguine predictions.
Will Blanchard's disappearance amused John Grimbal and he laughed when Billy Blee appeared
red-hot with the news. Mr. Lyddon made no secret of his personal opinion of Blanchard, and
all debated the probable design of the wanderer.

"Maybe he's 'listed," said John, "an' a good thing too if he has. It makes a man of a young
fellow. I'm for conscription myself--always have been."

"I be minded to think he've joined the riders," declared Billy. "Theer comed a circus here
last month, with braave doin's in the way of horsemanship and Merry Andrews, and such like
devilries. Us all goes to see it from miles round every year; an' Will was theer. Circus folk
do see the world in a way denied to most, and theer manner of life takes 'em even as far as
Russia and the Indies I've heard."

"Then there's the gypsy blood in him--" declared Mr. Lyddon, "that might send him roaming oversea,
if nothing else did."

"Or my great doings are like to have fired him," said John. "How's Phoebe?" he continued, dismissing
Will. "I saw her yesterday--a bowerly maiden she's grown--a prize for a better man that this
wild youngster, now bolted God knaws where."

"So I think," agreed the miller, "an' I hope she'll soon forget the searching grey eyes of
un and his high-handed way o' speech. Gals like such things. Dear, dear! though he made me
so darned angry last night, I could have laughed in his faace more 'n wance."

"Missy's under the weather this marnin'," declared Billy. "Who tawld her I ban't able to say,
but she knawed he'd gone just arter feedin' the fowls, and she went down valley alone, so slow,
wi' her purty head that bent it looked as if her sunbonnet might be hiding an auld gran'mother's
poll."

"She'll come round," said Martin; "she's only a young girl yet."

"And there 's fish as good in the sea as ever came out, and better," declared his brother.
"She must wait for a man who is a man,--somebody of good sense and good standing, with property
to his name."

Miller Lyddon noted with surprise and satisfaction John Grimbal's warmth of manner upon this
question; he observed also the stout, hearty body of him, and the handsome face that crowned
it. Then the brothers proceeded down-stream, and the master of Monks Barton looked after them
and caught himself hoping that they might meet Phoebe.

At a point where the river runs between a giant shoulder of heather-clad hill on one side and
the ragged expanses of Whiddon Park upon the other, John clambered down to the streamside and
began to fish, while Martin dawdled at hand and watched the sport. A pearly clearness, caught
from the clouds, characterised earth as well as air, and proved that every world-picture depends
for atmosphere and colour upon the sky-picture extended above it. Again there was movement
and some music, for the magic of the wind in a landscape's nearer planes is responsible for
both. The wooded valley lay under a grey and breezy forenoon; swaying alders marked each intermittent
gust with a silver ripple of upturned foliage, and still reaches of the river similarly answered
the wind with hurrying flickers and furrows of dimpled light. Through its transparent flood,
where the waters ran in shadow and escaped reflections, the river revealed a bed of ruddy brown
and rich amber. This harmonious colouring proceeded from the pebbly bottom, where a medley
of warm agate tones spread and shimmered, like some far-reaching mosaic beneath the crystal.
Above Teign's shrunken current extended oak and ash, while her banks bore splendid concourse
of the wild water-loving dwellers in that happy valley. Meadowsweet nodded creamy crests; hemlock
and fool's parsley and seeding willow-herb crowded together beneath far-scattered filigree
of honeysuckles and brambles with berries, some ripe, some red; while the scarlet corals of
briar and white bryony gemmed every riotous trailing thicket, dene, and dingle along the river's
brink; and in the grassy spaces between rose little chrysoprase steeples of wood sage all set
in shining fern. Upon the boulders in midstream subaqueous mosses, now revealed and starved
by the drought, died hard, and the seeds of grasses, figworts, and persicarias thrust up flower
and foliage, flourishing in unwonted spots from which the next freshet would rudely tear them.
Insect life did not abundantly manifest itself, for the day was sunless; but now and again,
with crisp rattle of his gauze wings, a dragon-fly flashed along the river. Through these scenes
the Teign rolled drowsily and with feeble pulses. Upon one bank rose the confines of Whiddon;
on the other, abrupt and interspersed with gulleys of shattered shale, ascended huge slopes
whereon a whole summer of sunshine had scorched the heather to dry death. But fading purple
still gleamed here and there in points and splashes, and the lesser furze, mingling therewith,
scattered gold upon the tremendous acclivities even to the crown of fir-trees that towered
remote and very blue upon the uplifted sky-line. Swallows, with white breasts flashing, circled
over the river, and while their elevation above the water appeared at times tremendous, the
abrupt steepness of the gorge was such that the birds almost brushed the hillside with their
wings. A sledge, laden with the timber of barked sapling oaks, creaked and jingled over the
rough road beside the stream; a man called to his horses and a dog barked beside him; then
they disappeared and the spacious scene was again empty, save for its manifold wild life and music. 

F. Bevan and H. C. Hall and four men wounded. To the westward of the railway line a detachment
of thirty of Rimington's Guides successfully reconnoitred as far as Prieska. Though the information
brought back by these reconnaissances was mainly negative, on the 18th November Major R. N.
R. Reade, Lord Methuen's Intelligence officer, was able from various sources of information to
report that a force, estimated at from 700 to 1,200 men, with four guns, was at or near Belmont;
and that a small commando under Jourdaan had been successfully recruiting from the disloyal farmers
in the districts of Barkly West, Campbell, Douglas, and Griquatown, which lay to the west and
north-west of the line of advance to Kimberley.

[Sidenote: Constitution of 1st Division.] Thanks to the strenuous
efforts of the staff and the departmental corps, the reconstituted
first division [147] was by the 20th of November ready to take the
field.

Equipped with mule transport, and marching with a minimum of baggage, Lord Methuen's column consisted
of about 7,726 infantry, 850 cavalry and mounted infantry, two batteries
of Royal Field artillery, four companies of Royal engineers and a
Naval brigade.

[Footnote 147: For the causes which led to the partial dispersion of the 1st division on its
arrival in South Africa, see Chapter XI.] It was thus composed:-- Naval brigade-- Captain R. C. Prothero,
R. N.:-- Four naval 12-pr. 12-cwt. guns, with 363 officers and men
of the Royal Navy, sailors, Royal Marine artillery and Royal Marine
Light Infantry.

[148] [Footnote 148: Owing to difficulties with transport, the Naval brigade did not reach the
1st division until 1 a. m. on the 23rd.] Mounted troops:-- 9th Lancers.

One company mounted infantry Northumberland Fusiliers.

One company mounted infantry Loyal North Lancashire. Half company mounted infantry King's Own Yorkshire
Light Infantry. New South Wales Lancers (30 of all ranks). Rimington's
Guides.

Royal Field
Artillery:-- Brigade division R. F. A.-- Lt.-Colonel F. H. Hall. 18th and 75th Field batteries
(15-pr. guns).

[149] Royal Engineers-- Lt.-Colonel J. B. Sharpe:-- 7th Field company. 8th Railway company. 11th
Field company. 30th Fortress company. Telegraph section. [Footnote 149: The 62nd Field battery, which
formed part of Colonel Hall's brigade division of artillery, was
left on the line of communication, and did not rejoin until the battle
of Modder River.] 1st (Guards) brigade-- Major-General Sir H. E. Colvile:--
3rd battalion Grenadier Guards.

1st battalion Coldstream Guards. [150] 2nd battalion Coldstream Guards.
1st battalion Scots Guards.

[Footnote 150: The 1st battalion Coldstream Guards landed from Gibraltar
on 16th November, and was detained at Orange River, guarding the railway
until the 22nd, when it was relieved by the 1st battalion Highland
Light Infantry and at once pushed on to Belmont, where it arrived
late on the night of the 22nd.] 9th Infantry brigade-- Maj.-Gen. R.
S. R. Fetherstonhaugh:-- [151] 1st battalion Northumberland Fusiliers.

Half-battalion 1st Loyal North Lancashire. [152] 2nd battalion Northamptonshire. 2nd battalion
King's Own Yorkshire Light Infantry.

[Footnote 151: Two companies of the Royal Munster Fusiliers also arrived
at Belmont from Orange River on the 22nd November, and were attached to the
9th brigade.] [Footnote 152: The remainder of this battalion formed
part of the garrison of Kimberley.] The medical services for the 9th
infantry brigade were furnished by the divisional Field Hospital of
the 1st division, and the 3rd brigade Field Hospital formed the new
divisional Field Hospital.

Subsequently,
when the 3rd (Highland) brigade joined Lord Methuen's force at Modder
river, its Field Hospital was provided by the 2nd division Field
Hospital and the Bearer company by "A." company Cape Medical Staff
Corps, under Lieut.-Col. Hartley, V. C. [Sidenote: Supporting forces.

Wauchope. French.] Behind the 1st division, the Highland brigade, under Maj.-Gen. A. G. Wauchope,
guarded the railway up to the Orange river, and overawed the disaffected
element among the inhabitants along the line of communication.

In the neighbourhood of Colesberg, Lieut.-General French, with a mixed force of all arms, was
engaged in stemming the tide of invasion from the Free State, and
by incessantly occupying the attention of the commandos opposed to
him, prevented their massing against Lord Methuen's right flank as he
advanced towards Kimberley.

[Sidenote: March fully known by Boers. They prepare to meet it.]
The Boers were not taken by surprise by Lord Methuen's preparations
for an advance.

Their spies and sympathisers kept them fully informed of all the steps taken. In anticipation
of a dash upon Kimberley they had carefully prepared defensive positions
along the railway at Belmont and at Rooilaagte, or, as we term it,
Graspan.

To some 2,500 burghers, under Commandant Jacobus Prinsloo, was entrusted
the duty of thrusting the British back towards the Orange; and, if the
task should prove beyond their strength, De la Rey, who, with his
commando was then investing the southern defences of Kimberley, could
easily reinforce them.

A large supply of stores had been collected at
Jacobsdal, while subsidiary depôts had been formed at Graspan and
in the neighbourhood of Koffyfontein.

[Sidenote: 4 a. m., Nov.
21st., march begins.] At 4 a. m., on the 21st of November, the 1st division
marched from their bivouac on the northern bank of the Orange river.
The General followed the course of the railway in order to facilitate
the carriage of supplies, not only for his own column, but also for
the inhabitants of the town into which he was to throw stores and
reinforcements.

The troops halted about 8 a. m. at Fincham's farm, near Witteputs, twelve miles north of the Orange
River bridge. The 9th Lancers and mounted infantry were at once thrown
forward with orders to reconnoitre northwards on a front of about
twelve miles.

They found the enemy in some strength among the hills which lie to
the east of Belmont station, and drew fire, fortunately with very
slight loss.

Lieut.-Colonel Willoughby Verner, D. A. A. G., for topography to
the army corps, sketched the Boer position from the low hills east
of Thomas'farm, about a mile and a half south-east of Belmont station.

[153] These sketches were subsequently reproduced and distributed among the officers of the column before
the action of the 23rd. Later in the day Lord Methuen himself studied
the ground from the hills near Thomas'farm, and then returned to
Witteputs, followed by the mounted troops, many of whom had covered
forty miles during the day.

[Footnote 153: See map No. 10.] [Sidenote: Approach to Belmont.] In the grey of the morning of
the 22nd of November, the mounted infantry swooped from Witteputs upon Thomas'farm, occupied it,
and threw out a chain of posts facing the station of Belmont and the hills to the east. Lord Methuen,
with his staff, the brigadiers commanding the infantry brigades,
Lt.-Col. Hall, C. R. A., and Lt.-Col. Sharpe, C. R. E., arrived shortly
afterwards, and again reconnoitred the Boer position from the high
ground above Thomas'farm.

When the General had completed his reconnaissance, he dictated the
orders for the attack which he proposed to deliver on the morrow.

Then, leaving the mounted infantry to hold the ground they occupied, and to protect the companies
of Royal engineers who were on their way from Witteputs to repair
the railway, Lord Methuen returned with his staff to the column, to
prepare for a further advance that afternoon.

During the morning there was intermittent firing between the mounted infantry outposts and parties
of the enemy, who occasionally showed themselves for a short time, and then disappeared without
affording any clue as to the strength of the force concealed among the kopjes. In the afternoon
the Boers brought two guns into action, chiefly directed against the 7th Field company R. E., then
employed in improving the supply of water at the site selected for that night's bivouac near
Thomas'farm. To silence this artillery fire the 18th and 75th batteries were hurriedly despatched
from Witteputs, and in order to save the troops at Belmont as quickly
as possible from this annoyance, the Officer Commanding trotted nearly
the whole distance.

The horses, still weak from the effects of the long sea voyage, suffered
severely from the strain.

Five indeed actually died of exhaustion, and all were so weary that during the engagement of the
23rd, the artillery was unable to move with any degree of rapidity. [Sidenote: Division gathers before
Belmont, Nov. 22nd.] At 4.30 p. m. the remainder of the troops marched
from Witteputs and reached their bivouac at Thomas'farm just before
nightfall.

CHAPTER XIII. BELMONT. [154] [Footnote 154: See maps Nos. 10 and 10 (a).] [Sidenote: The Boer position
Nov. 23rd/ 99.] Lord Methuen's dispositions for attack were necessarily determined by the
ground which the Boers had taken up to oppose his advance.

Some two miles to the south-east of Belmont station a hill, in form like a sugar-loaf, rises abruptly
about 280 feet above the veld.

From it extends northwards a broken line of kopjes which for several
miles runs parallel with the railway in its course from Orange River
station to Kimberley. Twelve hundred yards to the north of the "Sugar Loaf"
there is a precipitous hill of nearly equal height, which acquired
the name of the "Razor Back."

The northern side of it overhangs a steep ravine, some 600 yards wide. The most important feature
of the range, termed "Mont Blanc" by Lord Methuen, stretches northward from beyond this ravine for
three miles.

It is irregular in outline and broadens on its northern face to a
width of a mile.

Its average height may be taken at 300 feet above the plain.

To the south and west its slopes are very steep; on the east they present fewer difficulties; on
the north they are comparatively easy. Between Mont Blanc and the railway is a secondary line
of heights about a mile and a half long, of an average width of 1,200 yards. The northern portion
of this western range is a steep-sided, flat-topped hill, called "Table Mountain" in the orders
for the battle; it lies about a mile due west of the central portion of Mont Blanc. Its average
height is perhaps 100 feet lower than Mont Blanc, but here and there
its surface is broken by knolls which dominate not only the plateau
itself, but the surrounding country in every direction.

A well-defined depression, almost amounting to a valley, running from
south-east to north-west, separates Table Mountain from the southern
half of the western heights. To these the name of "Gun Hill" has been
given.

Gun Hill consists of a series of undulations, bounded on the west and
south by kopjes, in places as precipitous as the sides of Table Mountain,
and varying in height from 80 to 120 feet above the plain. After the
engagement the most southerly of these knolls became known to Lord
Methuen's force as "Grenadier Hill."

The valley between Mont Blanc and the western range is open, but intersected by deep dongas running from
the north and north-east. The hills in both lines of heights are covered with huge iron-stone boulders,
in places so steeply piled that men have to climb them on hands and knees, and their indented
outlines form many salients from which cross fire can be poured on troops advancing to the attack.
[Sidenote: Position as presented to the assailants Nov. 23rd.] As seen from the railway, the
direct line of advance on Kimberley, the Mont Blanc range stands out of the veld like a fortress.
This, the main range, is surrounded on the south and east by a level plain which affords advancing
troops no cover from fire.

Its western face, fronting the railway, has as natural outworks the
heights of Table Mountain and Gun Hill.

Thus, when Lord Methuen at first designed to drive off the Boers who flanked and menaced his further
progress, the nearest part of the enemy's position to him was Gun
Hill, and beyond this, further north, was Table Mountain, while supporting
these from the east was the main ridge of Mont Blanc.

Therefore, in order to clear away the enemy thus threatening him
on his right, it was necessary first to arrange the positions of rendezvous
so that the division should be arrayed against the hills about to
be assailed.

Thus the 9th brigade on the left of the attack looked towards Table
Mountain.

The Guards on the right, that is, to the south of the 9th brigade,
similarly faced Gun Hill.

The Guards were both nearer to the part to be assailed by them, and
more immediately opposite to it, than was the 9th brigade to the object
of its attack.

[Sidenote: Mode of attack as designed.] The 9th brigade was to assault the western face of Table
Mountain, while the Guards'brigade attacked Gun Hill. As soon as the enemy had been driven off
Table Mountain, the 9th brigade was to move eastwards, swinging its
left round so as to attack Mont Blanc from the north, while supported
by the fire of the Guards from the eastern side of Gun Hill.

The 75th battery on the left, the Naval guns and the 18th battery on the right, were to co-operate
with the infantry by searching the heights with shrapnel. The mounted troops were to guard the
flanks, prevent the escape of the enemy to the east, and, if possible, capture the Boer laager.
With this object, two squadrons of the 9th Lancers under Colonel B. Gough were to be on the left
flank of the 9th brigade, with one and a half companies of mounted infantry; while the remaining
squadron of the 9th Lancers, a company of M. I. and Rimington's Guides, the whole under Major M.
F. Rimington, were to work on the outer flank of the brigade of Guards. The troops were to march
off from their respective rendezvous at 3 a. m. By this attack on Mont Blanc from the north, after
the outworks of Table Mountain and Gun Hill had been carried, the Boers would be driven, not back
along the railway towards Kimberley, but eastwards, well off Lord Methuen's proposed line of advance.
[Sidenote: Strength and disposition of Boers.] The enemy under Jacobus Prinsloo consisted of the
Jacobsdal, Winburg, Fauresmith and Bloemfontein commandos, with detachments from Kroonstad, Hoopstad
and Boshof. It is difficult to arrive at an exact conclusion as to
their strength, for the Boers themselves do not agree as to the number
of burghers who took part in the action.

Their estimates vary from 2,100 to 2,500 men, with two field guns and a pom-pom. Their artillery, however,
hardly fired at all, nor were the reinforcements which De la Rey brought from Kimberley actively
engaged. The exact ground held by each commando cannot be accurately stated, but their approximate
dispositions are shown upon the maps No. 10 and 10 (a). There is some reason to believe that the
Boer general had intended to throw part of his right wing across the railway, as trenches were
found west of the line, so constructed as to bring flanking fire against an attack on Table Mountain;
but whether these works were occupied on the morning of the 23rd cannot be ascertained. That the
enemy had posts along the line to the north of Belmont is proved by the fact that one of these parties
was captured by Colonel Gough's detachment of mounted men. [Sidenote: 3.15 a. m. Nov. 23rd.
Attack begins.] The troops left their bivouacs about 2 a. m. on the
23rd, reached their respective rendezvous at the time appointed, and
at about 3.15 moved off towards the various parts of the enemy's position,
to the attack of which they had been assigned.

[Sidenote: Guards move against Gun Hill.] In the assault on Gun Hill
by the brigade of Guards, the two battalions of the Coldstream Guards
were in reserve; the 1st battalion Scots Guards and the 3rd battalion
Grenadier Guards were detailed to deliver the attack.

As the latter battalions, moving in line of quarter-column, reached the wire fences along the
railway line, they demolished them or scrambled through them as best they could [155] and then
deployed into fighting formation. Four half companies, extended to five paces, formed the firing
line of each battalion, supported at 200 paces distance by the remainder of these four companies, also
extended to five paces. The battalion reserve, which followed about
200 paces behind the supports, consisted of four companies, which
moved in the same formation as the leading companies but with a smaller
extension between the men.

As soon as the deployment was completed the advance began, and the troops moved forward through
the darkness, over ground fairly open, but here and there made difficult
by rocks and ant-bear holes.

The only sound to be heard was the steady tramp of feet, which in the stillness of the night could
be distinguished many hundred yards away by the 9th brigade. In admirable order, with their intervals
and distances well maintained, the long lines of men advanced, straining
their eyes to catch a glimpse of the kopjes they were to attack,
and wondering when the Boers would open fire upon them.

They had not long to wait.

Towards 4 a. m., when the outlines of the hills began dimly to appear against the first glimmer
of dawn, a violent burst of musketry rang out. Each rifle as it flashed against the dark background
showed where it had been discharged. The enemy were thus seen to be dotted at irregular intervals
in two tiers on the skyline and the upper slopes of the heights. [Footnote 155: In some cases
it was found that the wires were too strong to be cut by the wire-cutters.] [Sidenote: Attack of
Scots Guards.] The Scots Guards, who were marching on the point marked+ c+ on map No. 10, were
within about 150 yards of the foot of the kopje, and had hardly fixed bayonets, when the enemy
opened upon them. Col. A. H. Paget ordered the charge to be sounded, and, with a ringing cheer,
his men carried the hill with comparatively small loss, to find themselves exposed, not only
to frontal but to cross fire from both flanks. Theer
be parchments that laugh at the Queen's awn Privy Council and make the Court of Parliament
look a mere fule afore 'em. But it doan't do to be 'feared o' far-reachin' oaths when you 'm
signing such a matter, for 't is in the essence of 'em that the parties should swear deep."

"I'll mind what you say, Billy," promised Grimbal; "I'll pump old Ford as dry as I can, then
be off to London and get such a good, binding deed of purchase as you suggest."

And it was this determination that presently led to a violent breach between the young man
and his elder.

John waited upon Mr. Ford, at Mrs. Blanchard's cottage, where he had first lodged with his
brother on their return from abroad, and found the lawyer exceedingly pleasant when he learned
the object of Grimbal's visit. Together they drove over to the Red House, and its intending
tenant soon heard all there was to tell respecting price and the provisions under which the
estate was to be disposed of. For this information he expressed proper gratitude, but gave
no hint of his future actions.

Mr. Ford heard nothing more for a fortnight. Then he ascertained that John Grimbal was in the
metropolis, that the sale of the Red House and its lands had been conducted by the London agent,
and that no penny of the handsome commission involved would accrue to him. This position of
affairs greatly (and to some extent reasonably) angered the local man, and he did not forgive
what he considered a very flagrant slight. Extreme acerbity was bred in him, and his mind,
vindictive by nature, cherished from that hour a hearty detestation of John Grimbal. The old
man, his annual holiday ruined by the circumstance, went home to Newton, vowing vague vengeance
and little dreaming how soon opportunity would offer to deal his enemy a return blow; while
the purchaser of the Red House laughed at Ford's angry letters, told him to his face that he
was a greedy old rascal, and went on his way well pleased with himself and fully occupied with
his affairs.

Necessary preliminaries were hastened; an architect visited the crumbling fabric of the old
Red House and set about his plans. Soon, upon the ancient foundations, a new dwelling began
to rise. The ancient name was retained at Martin's entreaty and the surrounding property developed.
A stir and hum crept through the domain. Here was planting of young birch and larch; here clearing
of land; here mounds of manure steamed on neglected fallows. John Grimbal took up temporary
quarters in the home farm that he might be upon the spot at all hours; and what with these
great personal interests, good news of his property in Africa, and the growing distraction
of one soft-voiced, grey-eyed girl, the man found his life a full and splendid thing.

That he should admit Phoebe into his thoughts and ambitions was not unreasonable for two reasons:
he knew himself to be heartily in love with her by this time, and he had heard from her father
a definite statement upon the subject of Will Blanchard. Indeed, the miller, from motives of
worldly wisdom, took an opportunity to let John Grimbal know the situation.

"No shadow of any engagement at all," he said. "I made it plain as a pikestaff to them both.
It mustn't be thought I countenanced their crack-brained troth-plighting. 'T was by reason
of my final 'Nay' that Will went off. He 's gone out of her life, and she 'm free as the air.
I tell you this because you may have heard different, and you mix with the countryside and
can contradict any man who gives out otherwise. And, mind you, I say it from no ill-will to
the bwoy, but out of justice to my cheel."

Thus, to gain private ends, Mr. Lyddon spoke, and his information greatly heartened the listener.
John had more than once sounded Phoebe on the subject of Will during the past few months, and
was bound to confess that any chance he might possess appeared small; but he was deeply in
love and a man accustomed to have his own way. Increasing portions of his time and thought
were devoted to this ambition, and when Phoebe's father spoke as recorded, Grimbal jumped at
the announcement and pushed for his own hand.

"If a man that was a man, with a bit of land and a bit of stuff behind him, came along and
asked to court her, 't would be different, I suppose?" he inquired.

"I'd wish just such a man might come, for her sake."

"Supposing I asked if I might try to win Phoebe?"

"I'd desire your gude speed, my son. Nothing could please, me better."

"Then I've got you on my side?"

"You really mean it? Well, well! Gert news to be sure, an' I be pleased as Punch to hear 'e.
But take my word, for I'm richer than you by many years in knawledge of the world, though I
haven't seen so much of it. Go slow. Wait a while till that brown bwoy graws a bit dim in Phoebe's
eyes. Your life 's afore you, and the gal 's scarce marriageable, to my thinking. Build your
house and bide your time."

"So be it; and if I don't win her presently, I sha'n't deserve to."

"Ess, but taake time, lad. She 'm a dutiful, gude maiden, and I'd be sore to think my awn words
won't carry their weight when the right moment comes for speaking 'em. Blanchard's business
pulled down the corners of her purty mouth a bit; but young hearts caan't keep mournful for ever."

Billy Blee then took his turn on the argument. Thus far he had listened, and now, according
to his custom, argued on the popular side and bent his sail to the prevalent wind of opinion.

"You say right, Miller. 'T is out of nature that a maid should fret her innards to fiddlestrings
'bout a green bwoy when theer's ripe men waitin' for her."

"Never heard better sense," declared John Grimbal, in high good-humour; and from the red-letter
hour of that conversation he let his love grow into a giant. A man of old-fashioned convictions,
he honestly believed the parent wise who exercised all possible control over a child; and in
this case personal interest prompted him the more strongly to that opinion. Common sense the
world over was on his side, and no man with the facts before him had been likely to criticise
Miller Lyddon on the course of action he thought proper to pursue for his daughter's ultimate
happiness. That he reckoned without his host naturally escaped the father's thought at this
juncture. Will Blanchard had dwindled in his mind to the mere memory of a headstrong youngster,
now far removed from the scene of his stupidity and without further power to trouble. That
he could advise John to wait a while until Will's shadow grew less in Phoebe's thought, argued
kindness and delicacy of mind in Mr. Lyddon. Will he only saw and gauged as the rest of the
world. He did not fathom all of him, as Mrs. Blanchard had said; while concerning Phoebe's
inner heart and the possibilities of her character, at a pinch, he could speak with still less
certainty. She was a virgin page, unturned, unscanned. No man knew her strength or weakness;
she did not know it herself.

Time progressed; the leaf fell and the long drought was followed by a mild autumn of heavy
rains. John Grimbal's days were spent between the Red House and Monks Barton. His rod was put
up; but he had already made friends and now shot many partridges. He spent long evenings in
the society of Phoebe and her father at the farm; and the miller not seldom contrived to be
called away on these occasions. Billy proved ever ready to assist, and thus the two old men
did the best in their power to aid Grimbal's suit. In the great, comfortable kitchen, generally
at some distance from each other, Phoebe and the squire of the new Red House would sit. She,
now suspecting, was shy and uneasy; he, his wits quickened by love, displayed a tact and deftness
of words not to have been anticipated from him. At first Phoebe took fire when Grimbal criticised
Will in anything but a spirit of utmost friendliness; but it was vital to his own hopes that
he should cloud the picture painted on her heart if he could; so, by degrees and with all the
cleverness at his command, he dropped gall into poor Phoebe's cup in minute doses. He mourned
the extreme improbability of Blanchard's success, grounding his doubt on Will's uneven character;
he pictured Blanchard's fight with the world and showed how probable it was that he would make
it a losing battle by his own peculiarities of temper. He declared the remoteness of happiness
for Miss Lyddon in that direction to be extreme; he deplored the unstable nature of a young
man's affection all the world over; and he made solid capital out of the fact that not once
since his departure had her lover communicated with Phoebe. She argued against this that her
father had forbidden it; but Mr. Grimbal overrode the objection, and asked what man in love
would allow himself to be bound by such a command. As a matter of fact, Will had sent two messages
at different times to his sweetheart. These came through Clement Hicks, and only conveyed the
intelligence that the wanderer was well.

So Phoebe suffered persistent courting and her soft mould of mind sank a little under the storm.
Now, weary and weak, she hesitated; now a wave of strength fortified her spirit. That John
Grimbal should be dogged and importunate she took as mere masculine characteristics, and the
fact did not anger her against him; but what roused her secret indignation almost as often
as they met was his half-hidden air of sanguine confidence. He was humble in a way, always
the patient lover, but in his manner she detected an indefinable, irritating self-confidence--the
demeanour of one who already knows himself a conqueror before the battle is fought.

Thus the position gradually developed. As yet her father had not spoken to Phoebe or pretended
to any knowledge of what was doing; but there came a night, at the end of November, when John
Grimbal, the miller, and Billy sat and smoked at Monks Barton after Phoebe's departure to bed.
Mr. Blee, very well knowing what matter moved the minds of his companions, spoke first.

"Missy have put on a temperate way of late days it do seem. I most begin to think that cat-a-mountain
of a bwoy 's less in her thoughts than he was. She 'm larnin' wisdom, as well she may wi' sich
a faither."

"I doan't knaw what to think," answered Mr. Lyddon, somewhat gloomily. "I ban't so much in
her confidence as of auld days. Damaris Blanchard's right, like enough. A maid 's tu deep even
for the faither that got her, most times. A sweet, dear gal as ever was, for all that. How
fares it, John? She never names 'e to me, though I do to her."

"I'm biding my time, neighbour. I reckon 't will be right one day. It only makes me feel a
bit mean now and again to have to say hard things about young Blanchard. Still, while she 's
wrapped up there, I may whistle for her."

"You 'm in the right," declared Billy. "'T is an auld sayin' that all manner of dealings be
fair in love, an' true no doubt, though I'm a bachelor myself an' no prophet in such matters."

"All's fair for certain," admitted John, as though he had not before considered the position
from this standpoint.

"Ay, an' a darter's welfare lies in her faither's hand. Thank God, I'm not a parent to my knowledge;
but 'tis a difficult calling in life, an' a young maiden gal, purty as a picksher, be a heavy
load to a honest mind."

"So I find it," said the miller.

"You've forbid Will--lock, stock, and barrel--therefore, of coourse, she 's no right to think
more of him, to begin with," continued the old man. It was a new idea.

"Come to think of it, she hasn't--eh?" asked John.

"No, that's true enough," admitted Mr. Lyddon.

"I speak, though of low position, but well thought of an' at Miller's right hand, so to say,"
continued Mr. Blee; "so theer 't is: Missy's in a dangerous pass. Eve's flesh be Eve's flesh,
whether hid under flannel or silk, or shawed mother-naked to the sun after the manner of furrin
cannibals. A gal 's a gal; an' if I was faither of such as your darter, I'd count it my solemn
duty to see her out of the dangers of life an' tidily mated to a gude man. I'd say to myself,
'Her'll graw to bless me for what I've done, come a few years.'"

So Billy Blee, according to his golden rule, advised men upon the road they already desired
to follow, and thus increased his reputation for sound sense and far-reaching wisdom.

"It's true, every word he says," declared John Grimbal.

"I believe it," answered the miller; "though God forbid any word or act of mine should bring
wan tear to Phoebe's cheek. Yet, somehow, I doan't knaw but you 'm right."

"I am, believe me. It's the truth. You want Phoebe's real happiness considered, and that now
depends on--well, I'll say it out--on me. We have reached the point now when you must speak,
as you promised to speak, and throw the weight of your influence on my side. Then, after you've
had your say, I'll have mine and put the great question."

Mr. Lyddon nodded his head and relapsed into taciturnity.

CHAPTER VI

AN UNHAPPY POET

That a man of many nerves, uncertain in temper and with no physical or temporal qualifications,
should have won for himself the handsomest girl in Chagford caused the unreflective to marvel
whenever they considered the point. But a better knowledge of Chris Blauchard had served in
some measure to explain the wonder. Of all women, she was the least likely to do the thing
predicted by experience. She had tremendous force of character for one scarce twenty years
of age; indeed, she lived a superlative life, and the man, woman, child, or dog that came within
radius of her existence presently formed a definite part of it, and was loved or detested according
to circumstances. Neutrality she could not understand. If her interests were wide, her prejudices
were strong. A certain unconscious high-handedness of manner made the circle of her friends
small, but those who did love her were enthusiastic. Upon the whole, the number of those who
liked her increased with years, and avowed enemies had no very definite reasons for aversion.
Of her physical perfections none pretended two opinions; but the boys had always gone rather
in fear of Chris, and the few men who had courted her during the past few years were all considerably
her seniors. No real romance entered into this young woman's practical and bustling life until
the advent of Clement Hicks, though she herself was the flame of hearts not a few before his
coming.

Neurotic, sensual, as was Chris herself in a healthy fashion, a man of varying moods, and perhaps
the richer for faint glimmerings of the real fire, Hicks yet found himself no better than an
aimless, helpless child before the demands of reality. Since boyhood he had lived out of touch
with his environment. As bee-keeper and sign-writer he made a naked living for himself and
his mother, and achieved success sufficient to keep a cottage roof over their heads, but that
was all. Books were his only friends; the old stones of the Moor, the lonely wastes, the plaintive
music of a solitary bird were the companions of his happiest days. He had wit enough to torture
half his waking hours with self-analysis, and to grit his teeth at his own impotence. But there
was no strength, no virile grip to take his fate in his own hands and mould it like a man.
He only mourned his disadvantages, and sometimes blamed destiny, sometimes a congenital infirmity
of purpose, for the dreary course of his life. Nature alone could charm his sullen moods, and
that not always. Now and again she spread over the face of his existence a transitory contentment
and a larger hope; but the first contact with facts swept it away again. His higher aspirations
were neither deep nor enduring, and yet the man's love of nature was lofty and just, and represented
all the religion he had. No moral principles guided him, conscience never pricked. Nevertheless,
thus far he had been a clean liver and an honest man. Vice, because it affronted his sense
of the beautiful and usually led towards death, did not attract him. He lived too deep in the
lap of Nature to be deceived by the pseudo-realism then making its appearance in literature,
and he laughed without mirth at these pictures from city-bred pens at that time paraded as
the whole truth of the countryman's life. The later school was not then above the horizon;
the brief and filthy spectacle of those who dragged their necrosis, marasmus, and gangrene
of body and mind across the stage of art and literature, and shrieked Decay, had not as yet
appeared to make men sicken; the plague-spot, now near healed, had scarce showed the faintest
angry symptom of coming ill. Hicks might under no circumstances have been drawn in that direction,
for his morbidity was of a different description. Art to this man appeared only in what was
wholesome; it even embraced a guide to conduct, for it led him directly to Nature, and Nature
emphatically taught him the value of obedience, the punishment of weakness, the reward for
excess and every form of self-indulgence. But a softness in him shrank from these aspects of
the Mother. He tried vainly and feebly to dig some rule of life from her smiles alone, to read
a sermon into her happy hours of high summer sunshine. Beauty was his dream; he possessed natural
taste, and had cultivated the same without judgment. His intricate disposition and extreme
sensitiveness frightened him away from much effort at self-expression; yet not a few trifling
scraps and shreds of lyric poetry had fallen from his pen in high moments. These, when the
mood changed, he read again, and found dead, and usually destroyed. He was more easily discouraged
than a child who sets out to tell its parent a story, and is all silence and shamefaced blushes
at the first whisper of laughter or semblance of a smile. The works of poets dazed him, disheartened
him, and secret ambitions toward performance grew dimmer with every book he laid his hands
on. Ambition to create began to die; the dream scenery of his ill-controlled mental life more
and more seldom took shape of words on paper; and there came a time when thought grew wholly
wordless for him; a mere personal pleasure, selfish, useless, unsubstantial as the glimmer
of mirage over desert sands.

Into this futile life came Chris, like a breath of sweet air from off the deep sea. She lifted
him clean out of his subjective existence, awoke a healthy, natural love, built on the ordinary
emotions of humanity, galvanised self-respect and ambition into some activity, and presently
inspired a pluck strong enough to propose marriage. That was two years ago; and the girl still
loved this weakly soul with all her heart, found his language unlike that of any other man
she had seen or heard, and even took some slight softening edge of culture into herself from
him. Her common sense was absolutely powerless to probe even the crust of Clement's nature;
but she was satisfied that his poetry must be a thing as marketable as that in printed books.
Indeed, in an elated moment he had assured her that it was so. During the earlier stages of
their attachment, she pestered him to write and sell his verses and make money, that their
happiness might be hastened; while he, on the first budding of his love, and with the splendid
assurance of its return, had promised all manner of things, and indeed undertaken to make poems
that should be sent by post to the far-away place where they printed unknown poets, and paid
them. Chris believed in Clement as a matter of course. His honey must at least be worth more
to the world than that of his bees. Over her future husband she began at once to exercise the
control of mistress and mother; and she loved him more dearly after they had been engaged a
year than at the beginning of the contract. By that time she knew his disposition, and instead
of displaying frantic impatience at it, as might have been predicted, her tolerance was extreme.
She bore with Clem because she loved him with the full love proper to such a nature as her
own; and, though she presently found herself powerless to modify his character in any practical
degree, his gloomy and uneven mind never lessened the sturdy optimism of Chris herself, or
her sure confidence that the future would unite them. Through her protracted engagement Mrs.
Blanchard's daughter maintained a lively and sanguine cheerfulness. But seldom was it that
she lost patience with the dreamer. Then her rare, indignant outbursts of commonplace and common
sense, like a thunderstorm, sweetened the stagnant air of Clement's thoughts and awoke new,
wholesome currents in his mind.

As a rule, on the occasion of their frequent country walks, Clem and Chris found personal problems
and private interests sufficient for all conversation, but it happened that upon a Sunday in
mid-December, as they passed through the valley of the Teign, where the two main streams of
that river mingle at the foothills of the Moor, the subject of Will and Phoebe for a time at
least filled their thoughts. The hour was clear and bright, yet somewhat cheerless. The sun
had already set, from the standpoint of all life in the valley, and darkness, hastening out
of the east, merged the traceries of a million naked boughs into a thickening network of misty
grey. The river beneath these woods churned in winter flood, while clear against its raving
one robin sang little tinkling litanies from the branch of an alder.

Chris stood upon Lee Bridge at the waters' meeting and threw scraps of wood into the river;
Clem sat upon the parapet, smoked his pipe, and noted with a lingering delight the play of
his sweetheart's lips as her fingers strained to snap a tough twig. Then the girl spoke, continuing
a conversation already entered upon.

"Phoebe Lyddon's that weak in will. How far's such as her gwaine in life without some person
else to lean upon?"

"If the ivy cannot find a tree it creeps along the ground, Chrissy."

"Ess, it do; or else falls headlong awver the first bank it comes to. Phoebe's so helpless
a maiden as ever made a picksher. I mind her at school in the days when we was childer together.
Purty as them china figures you might buy off Cheap Jack, an' just so tender. She'd come up
to dinky gals no bigger 'n herself an' pull out her li'l handkercher an' ax 'em to be so kind
as to blaw her nose for her! Now Will's gone, Lard knaws wheer she'll drift to."

"To John Grimbal. Any man could see that. Her father's set on it."

"Why don't Will write to her and keep her heart up and give her a little news? 'Twould be meat
an' drink to her. Doan't matter 'bout mother an' me. We'll take your word for it that Will
wants to keep his ways secret. But a sweetheart--'tis so differ'nt. I wouldn't stand it!"

"I know right well you wouldn't. Will has his own way. We won't criticise him. But there's
a masterful man in the running--a prosperous, loud-voiced, bull-necked bully of a man, and
one not accustomed to take 'no' for his answer. I'm afraid of John Grimbal in this matter.
I've gone so far as to warn Will, but he writes back that he knows Phoebe."

"Jan Grimbal's a very differ'nt fashion of man to his brother; that I saw in a moment when
they bided with us for a week, till the 'Three Crowns' could take 'em in. I hate Jan--hate
him cruel; but I like Martin. He puts me in mind o' you, Clem, wi' his nice way of speech and
tender quickness for women. But it's Phoebe we'm speaking of. I think you should write stern
to Will an' frighten him. It ban't fair fightin', that poor, dear Phoebe 'gainst the will o'
two strong men."

"Well, she's had paltry food for a lover since he went away. He's got certain ideas, and she'll
hear direct when--but there, I must shut my mouth, for I swore by fantastic oaths to say nothing."

"He ought to write, whether or no. You tell Will that Jan Grimbal be about building a braave
plaace up under Whiddon, and is looking for a wife at Monks Barton morning, noon, an' evening.
That's like to waken him. An' tell him the miller's on t'other side, and clacking Jan Grimbal
into Phoebe's ear steadier than the noise of his awn water-wheel."

"And she will grow weak, mark me. She sees that red-brick place rising out of the bare boughs,
higher and higher, and knows that from floor to attics all may be hers if she likes to say
the word. She hears great talk of drawing-rooms, and pictures, and pianos, and greenhouses
full of rare flowers, and all the rest--why, just think of it!"

"Ban't many gals as could stand 'gainst a piano, I daresay."

"I only know one--mine."

Chris looked at him curiously.

"You 'm right. An' that, for some queer reason, puts me in mind of the other wan, Martin Grimbal.
He was very pleasant to me."

"He's too late, thank God!"

"Ess, fay! An' if he'd comed afore 'e, Clem, he'd been tu early. Theer's awnly wan man in the
gert world for me."

"My gypsy!"

"But I didn't mean that. He wouldn't look at me, not even if I was a free woman. 'T was of
you I thought when I talked to Mr. Grimbal. He'm well-to-do, and be seekin' a house in the
higher quarter under Middledown. You an' him have the same fancy for the auld stones. So you
might grow into friends--eh, Clem? Couldn't it so fall out? He might serve to help--eh? You
'm two-and-thirty year auld next February, an' it do look as though they silly bees ban't gwaine
to put money enough in the bank to spell a weddin' for us this thirty year to come. Theer's
awnly your aunt, Widow Coomstock, as you can look to for a penny, and that tu doubtful to count
on."

"Don't name her, Chris. Good Lord! poor drunken old thing, with that crowd of hungry relations
waiting like vultures round a dying camel! Never think of her. Money she has, but I sha'n't
see the colour of it, and I don't want to."

"Well, let that bide. Martin Grimbal's the man in my thought."

"What can I do there?"

"Doan't knaw, 'zactly; but things might fall out if he got to like you, being a bookish sort
of man. Anyway, he's very willing to be friends, for that he told me. Doan't bear yourself
like Lucifer afore him; but take the first chance to let him knaw your fortune's in need of
mendin'."

"You say that! D' you think self-respect is dead in me?" he asked, half angry.

There was no visible life about them, so she put her arms round him.

"I ax for love of 'e, dearie, an' for want of 'e. Do 'e think waitin' 's sweeter for me than
for you?"

Then he calmed down again, sighed, returned the caress, touched her, and stroked her breast
and shoulder with sudden earthly light in his great eyes.

"It 's hard to wait."

"That's why I say doan't lose chances that may mean a weddin' for us, Clem. Theer 's so much
hid in 'e, if awnly the way to bring it out could be found."

"A mine that won't pay working," he said bitterly, the passion fading out of eyes and voice.
"I know there 's something hidden; I feel there 's a twist of brain that ought to rise above
keeping bees and take me higher than honey-combs. Yet look at hard truth. The clods round me
get enough by their sweat to keep wives and feed children. I'm only a penniless, backboneless,
hand-to-mouth wretch, living on the work of laborious insects."

"If it ban't your awn fault, then whose be it, Clem?"

"The fault of Chance--to pack my build of brains into the skull of a pauper. This poor, unfinished
abortion of a head-piece of mine only dreams dreams that it cannot even set on paper for others
to see."

"You've given up trying whether it can or not, seemin'ly. I never hear tell of no verses now."

"What 's the good? But only last night, so it happens, I had a sort of a wild feeling to get
something out of myself, and I scribbled for hours and hours and found a little morsel of a rhyme."

"Will 'e read it to me?"

He showed reluctance, but presently dragged a scrap of paper out of his, pocket. Not a small
source of trouble was his sweetheart's criticism of his verses.

"It was the common sight of a pair of lovers walking tongue-tied, you know. I call it 'A Devon
Courting.'"

He read the trifle slowly, with that grand, rolling sea-beat of an accent that Elizabeth once
loved to hear on the lips of Raleigh and Drake.

  "Birds gived awver singin',
   Flittermice was wingin',
   Mists lay on the meadows--
     A purty sight to see.
   Down-long in the dimpsy, the dimpsy, the dimpsy,
     Down-long in the dimpsy
   Theer went a maid wi' me.

  "Five gude mile o' walkin',
   Not wan word o' talkin',
   Then I axed a question
     And put the same to she.
   Up-long in the owl-light, the owl-light, the owl-light,
     Up-long in the owl-light,
   Theer corned my maid wi' me.

"But I wonder you write the common words, Clem--you who be so much tu clever to use 'em."

"The words are well enough. They were not common once."

"Well, you knaw best. Could 'e sell such a li'l auld funny thing as that for money?"

He shook his head.

"No; it was only the toil of making it seemed good. It is worthless."

"An' to think how long it took 'e! If you'd awnly put the time into big-fashioned verses full
of the high words you've got. But you knaw best. Did 'e hear anything of them rhymes 'bout
the auld days you sent to Lunnon?"

"They sent them back again. I told you 't was wasting three stamps. It 's not for me, I know
it. The world is full of dumb singers. Maybe I haven't got even a pinch of the fire that must
break through and show its flame, no matter what mountains the earth tumbles on it. God knows
I burn hot enough sometimes with great thoughts and wild longings for love and for sweeter
life and for you; but my fires--whether they are soul-fires or body-fires--only burn my heart out."

She sighed and squeezed his hand, understanding little enough of what he said.

"We must be patient. 'T is a solid thing, patience. I'm puttin' by pence; but it 's so plaguy
little a gal can earn, best o' times and with the best will."

"If I could only write the things I think! But they vanish before pen and paper and the need
of words, as the mists of the night vanish before the hard, searching sun. I am ignorant of
how to use words; and those in the world who might help me will never know of me. As for those
around about, they reckon me three parts fool, with just a little gift of re-writing names
over their dirty shop-fronts."

"Yet it 's money. What did 'e get for that butivul fox wi' the goose in his mouth you painted
'pon Mr. Lamacraft's sign to Sticklepath?"

"Ten shillings."

"That's solid money."

"It isn't now. I bought a book with it--a book of lies."

Chris was going to speak, but changed her mind and sighed instead.

"Well, as our affairs be speeding so poorly, we'd best to do some gude deed an' look after
this other coil. You must let Will knaw what 's doin' by letter this very night. 'T is awnly
fair, you being set in trust for him."

"Strange, these Grimbal brothers," mused Clement, as the lovers proceeded in the direction
of Chagford. "They come home with everything on God's earth that men might desire to win happiness,
and, by the look of it, each marks his home-coming by falling in love with one he can't have."

"Shaws the fairness of things, Clem; how the poor may chance to have what the rich caan't buy;
so all look to stand equal."

"Fairness, you call it? The damned, cynical irony of this whole passion-driven puppet-show--that's
what it shows! The man who is loved cannot marry the woman he loves lest they both starve;
the man who can give a woman half the world is loathed for his pains. Not that he 's to be
pitied like the pauper, for if you can't buy love you can buy women, and the wise ones know
how to manufacture a very lasting substitute for the real thing."

"You talk that black and bitter as though you was deep-read in all the wickedness of the world,"
said Chris; "yet I knaw no man can say sweeter things than you sometimes."

"Talk! It 's all talk with me--all snarling and railing and whining at hard facts, like a viper
wasting its venom on steel. I'm sick of myself--weary of the old, stale round of my thoughts.
Where can I wash and be clean? Chrissy, for God's sake, tell me."

"Put your hope in the Spring," she said, "an' be busy for Will."

In reality, with the approach of Christmas, affairs between Phoebe and the elder Grimbal had
reached a point far in advance of that which Clement and Chris were concerned with. For more
than three months, and under a steadily increasing weight of opposition, Miller Lyddon's daughter
fought without shadow of yielding. Then came a time when the calm but determined iteration
of her father's desires and the sledge-hammer love-making of John Grimbal began to leave an
impression. Even then her love for Will was bright and strong, but her sense of helplessness
fretted her nerves and temper, and her sweetheart's laconic messages, through the medium of
another man, were sorry comfort in this hour of tribulation. With some reason she felt slighted.
Neither considering Will's peculiarities, nor suspecting that his silence was only, the result
of a whim or project, she began to resent it. Then John Grimbal caught her in a dangerous mood.
Once she wavered, and he had the wisdom to leave her at the moment of victory. But on the next
occasion of their meeting, he took good care to keep the advantage he had gained. Conscious
of his own honest and generous intentions, Grimbal went on his way. The subtler manifestations
of Phoebe's real attitude towards him escaped his observation; her reluctance he set down as
resulting from the dying shadow of affection for Will Blanchard. That she would be very happy
and proud and prosperous in the position of his wife, the lover was absolutely assured. He
pursued her with the greater determination, in that he believed he was saving her from herself.
What were some few months of vague uncertainty and girlish tears compared with a lifetime of
prosperity and solid happiness? John Grimbal made Phoebe handsome presents of pretty and costly
things after the first great victory. He pushed his advantage with tremendous vigour. His great
face seemed reflected in Phoebe's eyes when she slept as when she woke; his voice was never
out of her ears. Weary, hopeless, worn out, she prayed sometimes for strength of purpose. But
it was a trait denied to her character and not to be bestowed at a breath. Her stability of
defence, even as it stood, was remarkable and beyond expectation. Then the sure climax rolled
in upon poor Phoebe. Twice she sought Clement Hicks with purpose to send an urgent message;
on each occasion accident prevented a meeting; her father was always smiling and droning his
desires into her ear; John Grimbal haunted her. His good-nature and kindness were hard to bear;
his patience made her frantic. So the investment drew to its conclusion and the barriers crumbled,
for the forces besieged were too weak and worn to restore them; while a last circumstance brought
victory to the stronger and proclaimed the final overthrow. 

After the relief of Ladysmith, Captain Jones reorganised the Naval brigade with ranks and ratings
from the Forte, Philomel, and Tartar. The Terribles and Powerfuls rejoined their ships by March
13th. So reconstituted, the brigade served on with the Natal Field Force until June 24th, 1900,
when all but the Philomel's and Tartar's men, under Lieutenant Halsey, were recalled to their
ships. Lieutenant Halsey, with four officers and thirty-eight men of the Philomel, one officer
and eighteen men of the Tartar, remained until October, 1900, when
they also returned.

[Sidenote: All Naval brigades within recall.] Essential as were the
services rendered on shore [84] it was always arranged that, if it
had become advisable at any time to recall officers and men to their
ships, they should be able to rejoin them long before their presence
was needed on board.

Also as soon as any article,
including guns and ammunition, was landed from the fleet it was replaced
from England. When it became clear that the safety of Durban was assured,
its naval defence force was re-embarked; but Captain Percy Scott remained
on shore with his staff as Commandant until 14th March, 1900.

His work there, in preparing and sending additional guns to General Buller-- among them a 6-in.
gun on a wheeled carriage-- and also as an able Commandant of Durban under martial law, was
highly appreciated. [85] [Footnote 84: See despatches giving the views of Sir Redvers Buller, etc., on
these.] [Footnote 85: See despatch from the Governor of Natal to Admiral Harris, dated 9.3.00,
and letter from the Colonial Office to the Admiralty, dated 7.5.00.] [Sidenote: Natal Naval Volunteers.]
A welcome addition was made to the strength of the Natal brigade
by a party of Natal Naval Volunteers, under Lieutenants T. Anderton
and Nicholas Chiazzari, who with forty-eight men of all ratings, joined
Captain Jones'force at Frere on 10th December, and reinforced the
crews of the 4· 7-in. guns.

Lieut. Barrett, N. N. V., also joined the Naval brigade with the
Natal Field Force after the relief of Ladysmith.

The Natal Naval Volunteers proved to be a most valuable addition to the brigade, composed as they
were of intelligent, resourceful men, who were familiar with the
ways of the country, and many of whom spoke both the Taal and native
languages. But poor Phoebe felt that the main issues as to conscience were now
only too clear; her last anchor was wrenched from its hold, and that night, through a mist
of unhappy tears, she succumbed, promised to marry John Grimbal and be queen of the red castle
now rising under Cranbrook's distant heights.

That we have dealt too scantily with her tragic experiences may be suspected; but the sequel
will serve to show how these circumstances demand no greater elaboration than has been accorded
to them.

CHAPTER VII

LIBATION TO POMONA

A WINTER moon threw black shadows from stock and stone, tree and cot in the valley of the Teign.
Heavy snow had fallen, and moor-men, coming down from the highlands, declared it to lie three
feet deep in the drifts. Now fine, sharp weather had succeeded the storm, and hard frost held
both hill and vale.

On Old Christmas Eve a party numbering some five-and-twenty persons assembled in the farmyard
of Monks Barton, and Billy Blee, as master of the pending ceremonies, made them welcome. Some
among them were aged, others youthful; indeed the company consisted mostly of old men and boys,
a circumstance very easily understood when the nature of their enterprise is considered. The
ancients were about to celebrate a venerable rite and sacrifice to a superstition, active in
their boyhood, moribund at the date with which we are concerned, and to-day probably dead altogether.
The sweet poet[2] of Dean Prior mentions this quaint, old-time custom of "christening" or "wassailing"
the fruit-trees among Christmas-Eve ceremonies; and doubtless when he dwelt in Devon the use
was gloriously maintained; but an adult generation in the years of this narrative had certainly
refused it much support. It was left to their grandfathers and their sons; and thus senility
and youth preponderated in the present company. For the boys, this midnight fun with lantern
and fowling-piece was good Christmas sport, and they came readily enough; to the old men their
ceremonial possessed solid value, and from the musty storehouse of his memory every venerable
soul amongst them could cite instances of the sovereign virtue hid in such a procedure.

[2] The sweet poet.

  "Wassaile the trees, that they may beare
   You many a Plum, and many a Peare;
   For more or lesse fruites they will bring,
   As you doe give them Wassailing."

   Hesperides.

"A brave rally o' neighbours, sure 'nough," cried Mr. Blee as he appeared amongst them. "Be
Gaffer Lezzard come?"

"Here, Billy."

"Hast thy fire-arm, Lezzard?"

"Ess, 't is here. My gran'son's carrying of it; but I holds the powder-flask an' caps, so no
ruin be threatened to none."

Mr. Lezzard wore a black smock-frock, across the breast of which extended delicate and skilful
needlework. His head was hidden under an old chimney-pot hat with a pea-cock's feather in it,
and, against the cold, he had tied a tremendous woollen muffler round his neck and about his
ears. The ends of it hung down over his coat, and the general effect of smock, comforter, gaitered
shanks, boots tied up in straw, long nose, and shining spectacles, was that of some huge and
ungainly bird, hopped from out a fairy-tale or a nightmare.

"Be Maister Chappie here likewise?" inquired Billy.

"I'm waitin'; an' I've got a fowling-piece, tu."

"That's gude then. I be gwaine to carry the auld blunderbuss what's been in Miller Lyddon's
family since the years of his ancestors, and belonged to a coach-guard in the King's days.
'T is well suited to apple-christenin'. The cider's here, in three o' the biggest earth pitchers
us'a' got, an' the lads is ready to bring it along. The Maister Grimbals, as will be related
to the family presently, be comin' to see the custom, an' Miller wants every man to step back-along
arterwards an' have a drop o' the best, 'cordin' to his usual gracious gudeness. Now, Lezzard,
me an' you'll lead the way."

Mr. Blee then shouldered his ancient weapon, the other veteran marched beside him, and the
rest of the company followed in the direction of Chagford Bridge. They proceeded across the
fields; and along the procession bobbed a lantern or two, while a few boys carried flaring
torches. The light from these killed the moonbeams within a narrow radius, shot black tongues
of smoke into the clear air, and set the meadows glimmering redly where contending radiance
of moon and fire powdered the virgin snow with diamond and ruby. Snake-like the party wound
along beside the river. Dogs barked; voices rang clear on the crystal night; now and again,
with laughter and shout, the lads raced hither and thither from their stolid elders, and here
and there jackets carried the mark of a snowball. Behind the procession a trampled grey line
stretched out under the moonlight. Then all passed like some dim, magic pageant of a dream;
the distant dark blot of naked woodlands swallowed them up, and the voices grew faint and ceased.
Only the endless song of the river sounded, with a new note struck into it by the world of snow.

For a few moments the valley was left empty, so empty that a fox, who had been prowling unsuccessfully
about Monks Barton since dusk, took the opportunity to leave his hiding-place above the ducks'
pool, cross the meadows, and get him home to his earth two miles distant. He slunk with pattering
foot across the snow, marking his way by little regular paw-pits and one straight line where
his brush roughened the surface. Steam puffed in jets from his muzzle, and his empty belly
made him angry with the world. At the edge of the woods he lifted his head, and the moonlight
touched his green eyes. Then he recorded a protest against Providence in one eerie bark, and
so vanished, before the weird sound had died.

Phoebe Lyddon and her lover, having given the others some vantage of ground, followed them
to their destination--Mr. Lyddon's famous orchard in Teign valley. The girl's dreary task of
late had been to tell herself that she would surely love John Grimbal presently--love him as
such a good man deserved to be loved. Only under the silence and in the loneliness of long
nights, only in the small hours of day, when sleep would not come and pulses were weak, did
Phoebe confess that contact with him hurt her, that his kisses made her giddy to sickness,
that all his gifts put together were less to her than one treasure she was too weak to destroy--the
last letter Will had written. Once or twice, not to her future husband, but to the miller,
Phoebe had ventured faintly to question still the promise of this great step; but Mr. Lyddon
quickly overruled all doubts, and assisted John Grimbal in his efforts to hasten the ceremony.
Upon this day, Old Christmas Eve, the wedding-day lay not a month distant and, afterwards the
husband designed to take his wife abroad for a trip to South Africa. Thus he would combine
business and pleasure, and return in the spring to witness the completion of his house. Chagford
highly approved the match, congratulated Phoebe on her fortune, and felt secretly gratified
that a personage grown so important as John Grimbal should have chosen his life's partner from
among the maidens of his native village.

Now the pair walked over the snow; and silent and stealthy as the vanished fox, a grey figure
followed after them. Dim as some moon-spirit against the brightness, this shape stole forward
under the rough hedge that formed a bank and threw a shadow between meadow and stream. In repose
the grey man, for a man it was, looked far less substantial than the stationary outlines of
fences and trees; and when he moved it had needed a keen eye to see him at all. He mingled
with the moonlight and snow, and became a part of a strange inversion of ordinary conditions;
for in this white, hushed world the shadows alone seemed solid and material in their black
nakedness, in their keen sharpness of line and limit, while things concrete and ponderable
shone out a silvery medley of snow-capped, misty traceries, vague of outline, uncertain of
shape, magically changed as to their relations by the unfamiliar carpet now spread between them.

The grey figure kept Phoebe in sight, but followed a path of his own choosing. When she entered
the woods he drew a little nearer, and thus followed, passing from shadow to shadow, scarce
fifty yards behind.

Meanwhile the main procession approached the scene of its labours. Martin Grimbal, attracted
by the prospect of reading this page from an old Devonian superstition, was of the company.
He walked with Billy Blee and Gaffer Lezzard; and these high priests, well pleased at their
junior's attitude towards the ceremony, opened their hearts to him upon it.

"'T is an ancient rite, auld as cider--maybe auld as Scripture, to, for anything I've heard
to the contrary," said Mr. Lezzard.

"Ay, so 't is," declared Billy Blee, "an' a custom to little observed nowadays. But us might
have better blooth in springtime an' braaver apples come autumn if the trees was christened
more regular. You doan't see no gert stock of sizable apples best o' years now--li'l scrubbly
auld things most times."

"An' the cider from 'em--poor roapy muck, awnly fit to make 'e thirst for better drink," criticised
Gaffer Lezzard.

"'Tis this way: theer's gert virtue in cider put to apple-tree roots on this particular night,
accordin' to the planets and such hidden things. Why so, I can't tell 'e, any more 'n anybody
could tell 'e why the moon sails higher up the sky in winter than her do in summer; but so
't is. An' facts be facts. Why, theer's the auld 'Sam's Crab' tree in this very orchard we'm
walkin' to. I knawed that tree three year ago to give a hogshead an' a half as near as damn
it. That wan tree, mind, with no more than a few baskets of 'Redstreaks' added."

"An' a shy bearer most times, tu," added Mr. Lezzard.

"Just so; then come next year, by some mischance, me being indoors, if they didn't forget to
christen un! An', burnish it all! theer wasn't fruit enough on the tree to fill your pockets!"

"Whether 't is the firing into the branches, or the cider to the roots does gude, be a matter
of doubt," continued Mr. Lezzard; but the other authority would not admit this.

"They 'm like the halves of a flail, depend on it: wan no use wi'out t'other. Then theer's
the singing of the auld song: who's gwaine to say that's the least part of it?"

"'T is the three pious acts thrawn together in wan gude deed," summed up Mr. Lezzard; "an'
if they'd awnly let apples get ripe 'fore they break 'em, an' go back to the straw for straining,
'stead of these tom-fule, new-fangled hair-cloths, us might get tidy cider still."

By this time the gate of the orchard was reached; Gaffer Lezzard, Billy, and the other patriarch,
Mr. Chapple,--a very fat old man,--loaded their weapons, and the perspiring cider-carriers
set down their loads.

"Now, you bwoys, give awver runnin' 'bout like rabbits," cried out Mr. Chapple. "You 'm here
to sing while us pours cider an' shoots in the trees; an' not a drop you'll have if you doan't
give tongue proper, so I tell 'e."

At this rebuke the boys assembled, and there followed a hasty gabbling, to freshen the words
in young and uncertain memories. Then a small vessel was dipped under floating toast, that
covered the cider in the great pitchers, and the ceremony of christening the orchard began.
Only the largest and most famous apple-bearers were thus saluted, for neither cider nor gunpowder
sufficient to honour more than a fraction of the whole multitude existed in all Chagford. The
orchard, viewed from the east, stretched in long lines, like the legions of some arboreal army;
the moon set sparks and streaks of light on every snowy fork and bough; and at the northwestern
foot of each tree a network of spidery shadow-patterns, sharp and black, extended upon the snow.

Mr. Blee himself made the first libation, led the first chorus, and fired the first shot. Steaming
cider poured from his mug, vanished, sucked in at the tree-foot, and left a black patch upon
the snow at the hole of the trunk; then he stuck a fragment of sodden toast on a twig; after
which the christening song rang out upon the night--ragged at first, but settling into resolute
swing and improved time as its music proceeded. The lusty treble of the youngsters soon drowned
the notes of their grandfathers; for the boys took their measure at a pace beyond the power
of Gaffer Lezzard and his generation, and sang with heart and voice to keep themselves warm.
The song has variants, but this was their version--

  "Here 's to thee, auld apple-tree,
   Be sure you bud, be sure you blaw,
   And bring forth apples good enough--
   Hats full, caps full, three-bushel bags full,
          Pockets full and all--
   Hurrah! Hurrah! Hurrah!
              Hats full, caps full, three-bushel bags full,
                  Hurrah! Hurrah! Hurrah!"

Then Billy fired his blunderbuss, and a flame leapt from its bell mouth into the branches of
the apple-tree, while surrounding high lands echoed its report with a reverberating bellow
that rose and fell, and was flung from hill to hill, until it gradually faded upon the ear.
The boys cheered again, everybody drank a drop of the cider, and from under a cloud of blue
smoke, that hung flat as a pancake above them in the still air, all moved onward. Presently
the party separated into three groups, each having a gunner to lead it, half a dozen boys to
sing, and a dwindling jar of cider for the purposes of the ceremony. The divided choirs clashed
their music, heard from a distance; the guns fired at intervals, each sending forth its own
particular detonation and winning back a distinctive echo; then the companies separated widely
and decreased to mere twinkling, torchlit points in the distance. Accumulated smoke from the
scattered discharges hung in a sluggish haze between earth and moon, and a sharp smell of burnt
powder tainted the sweetness of the frosty night.

Upon this scene arrived John Grirnbal and his sweetheart. They stood for a while at the open
orchard gate, gazed at the remote illumination, and heard the distant song. Then they returned
to discussion of their own affairs; while at hand, unseen, the grey watcher moved impatiently
and anxiously. The thing he desired did not come about, and he blew on his cold hands and swore
under his breath. Only an orchard hedge now separated them, and he might have listened to Phoebe's
soft speech had he crept ten yards nearer, while John Grimbal's voice he could not help hearing
from time to time. The big man was just asking a question not easy to answer, when an unexpected
interruption saved Phoebe from the difficulty of any reply.

"Sometimes I half reckon a memory of that blessed boy still makes you glum, my dear. Is it
so? Haven't you forgot him yet?"

As he spoke an explosion, differing much in sound from those which continued to startle the
night, rang suddenly out of the distance. It arose from a spot on the confines of the orchard,
and was sharp in tone--sharp almost as the human cries which followed it. Then the distant
lights hastened towards the theatre of the catastrophe. "What has happened?" cried Phoebe,
thankful enough to snatch conversation away from herself and her affairs.

"Easy to guess. That broken report means a burst gun. One of those old fools has got excited,
put too much powder into his blunderbuss and blown his head off, likely as not. No loss either!"

"Please, please go and see! Oh, if 'tis Billy Blee come to grief, faither will be lost. Do
'e run, Mr. Grimbal--Jan, I mean. If any grave matter's failed out, send them bwoys off red-hot
for doctor."

"Stop here, then. If any ugly thing has happened, there need be no occasion for you to see it."

He departed hastily to where a distant galaxy of fiery eyes twinkled and tangled and moved
this way and that, like the dying sparks on a piece of burnt paper.

Then the patient grey shadow, rewarded by chance at last, found his opportunity, slipped into
the hedge just above Grimbal's sweetheart, and spoke to her.

"Phoebe, Phoebe Lyddon!"

The voice, dropping out of empty air as it seemed, made Phoebe jump, and almost fall; but there
was an arm gripped round her, and a pair of hot lips on hers before she had time to open her
mouth or cry a word.

"Will!"

"Ess, so I be, alive an' kicking. No time for anything but business now. I've followed 'e for
this chance. Awnly heard four day ago 'bout the fix you'd been drove to. An' Clem's made it
clear 't was all my damn silly silence to blame. I had a gert thought in me and wasn't gwaine
to write till--but that's awver an' done, an' a purty kettle of feesh, tu. We must faace this
coil first."

"Thank God, you can forgive me. I'd never have had courage to ax 'e."

"You was drove into it. I knaw there's awnly wan man in the world for 'e. Ban't nothin' to
forgive. I never ought to have left 'e--a far-seein' man, same as me. Blast him! I'd like to
tear thicky damned fur off you, for I lay it comed from him."

"They were killing me, Will; and never a word from you."

"I knaw, I knaw. What's wan girl against a parish full, an' a blustering chap made o' diamonds?"

"The things doan't warm me; they make me shiver. But now--you can forgive me--that's all I
care for. What shall I do? How can I escape it? Oh, Will, say I can!"

"In coourse you can. Awnly wan way, though; an' that's why I'm here. Us must be married right
on end. Then he's got no more power over 'e than a drowned worm, nor Miller, nor any."

"To think you can forgive me enough to marry me after all my wickedness! I never dreamed theer
was such a big heart in the world as yourn."

"Why, we promised, didn't us? We'm built for each other. I knawed I'd only got to come. An'
I have, at cost, tu, I promise 'e. Now we'll be upsides wi' this tramp from furrin paarts,
if awnly you do ezacally what I be gwaine to tell you. I'd meant to write it, but I can speak
it better as the chance has come."

Phoebe's heart glowed at this tremendous change in the position. She forgot everything before
sight and sound of Will. The nature of her promises weakened to gossamer. Her first love was
the only love for her, and his voice fortified her spirit and braced her nerves. A chance for
happiness yet remained and she, who had endured enough, was strong in determination to win
it yet at any cost if a woman could.

"If you awnly knawed the half I've suffered before they forced me, you'd forgive," she said.
His frank pardon she could hardly realise. It seemed altogether beyond the desert of her weakness.

"Let that bide. It's the future now. Clem's told me everything. Awnly you and him an' Chris
knaw I'm here. Chris will serve 'e. Us must play a hidden game, an' fight this Grimbal chap
as he fought me--behind back. Listen; to-day fortnight you an' me 'm gwaine to be married afore
the registrar to Newton Abbot. He 'm my awn Uncle Ford, as luck has it, an' quite o' my way
o' thinkin' when I told him how 't was, an' that Jan Grimbal was gwaine to marry you against
your will. He advised me, and I'm biding in Newton for next two weeks, so as the thing comes
out right by law. But you've got to keep it still as death."

"If I could awnly fly this instant moment with 'e!"

"You caan't. 'T would spoil all. You must stop home, an' hear your banns put up with Grimbal,
an' all the rest of it. Wish I could! Meat an' drink 't would be, by God! But he'll get his
pay all right. An' afore the day comes, you nip off to Newton, an' I'll meet 'e, an' us'll
be married in a wink, an' you'll be back home again to Monks Barton 'fore you knaw it."

"Is that the awnly way? Oh, Will, how terrible!"

"God knaws I've done worse 'n that. But no man's gwaine to steal the maid of my choosin' from
me while I've got brains and body to prevent it."

"Let me look at you, lovey--just the same, just the same! 'Tis glorious to hear your voice
again. But this thin coat, so butivul in shaape, tu! You 'm a gentleman by the look of it;
but 't is summer wear, not winter."

"Ess, 'tis cold enough; an' I've got to get back to Newton to-night. An' never breathe that
man's name no more. I'll shaw 'e wat 's a man an' what ban't. Steal my true love, would 'e?--God
forgive un, I shaan't--not till we 'm man an' wife, anyway. Then I might. Give 'e up! Be I
a chap as chaanges? Never--never yet."

Phoebe wept at these words and pressed Will to her heart.

"'Tis strength, an' fire, an' racing blood in me to hear 'e, dear, braave heart. I was that
weak without 'e. Now the world 's a new plaace, an' I doan't doubt fust thought was right,
for all they said. I'll meet 'e as you bid me, an' nothin' shall ever keep me from 'e now--nothing!"

"'T is well said, Phoebe; an' doan't let that anointed scamp kiss 'e more 'n he must. Be braave
an' cunnin', an' keep Miller from smelling a rat. I'd like to smash that man myself now wheer
he stands,--Grimbal I mean,--but us must be wise for the present. Wipe your shiny eyes an'
keep a happy faace to 'em, an' never let wan of the lot dream what's hid in 'e. Cock your li'l
nose high, an' be peart an' gay. An' let un buy you what he will,--'t is no odds; we can send
his rubbish back again arter, when he knaws you'm another man's wife. Gude-bye, Phoebe dearie;
I've done what 'peared to me a gert deed for love of 'e; but the sight of 'e brings it down
into no mighty matter."

"You've saved my life, Will--saved all my days; an' while I've got a heart beating 't will
be yourn, an' I'll work for 'e, an' slave for 'e, an' think for 'e, an' love 'e so long as
I live--an' pray for 'e, tu, Will, my awn!"

He parted from her as she spoke, and she, by an inspiration, hurried towards the approaching
crowd that the trampled marks of the snow where she had been standing might not be noted under
the gleam of torches and lanterns.

John Grimbal's prophecy was happily not fulfilled in its gloomy completeness: nobody had blown
his head off; but Billy Blee's prodigality of ammunition proved at last too much for the blunderbuss
of the bygone coach-guard, and in its sudden annihilation a fragment had cut the gunner across
the face, and a second inflicted a pretty deep flesh-wound on his arm. Neither injury was very
serious, and the general escape, as John Grimbal pointed out, might be considered marvellous,
for not a soul save Billy himself had been so much as scratched.

With Martin Grimbal on one side and Mr. Chapple upon the other, the wounded veteran walked
slowly and solemnly along. The dramatic moments of the hour were dear to him, and while tolerably
confident at the bottom of his mind that no vital hurt had been done, he openly declared himself
stricken to death, and revelled in a display of Christian fortitude and resignation that deceived
everybody but John Grimbal. Billy gasped and gurgled, bid them see to the bandages, and reviewed
his past life with ingenuous satisfaction.

"Ah, sawls all! dead as a hammer in an hour. 'T is awver. I feel the life swelling out of me."

"Don't say that, Billy," cried Martin, in real concern. "The blood's stopped flowing entirely now."

"For why? Theer's no more to come. My heart be pumping wind, lifeless wind; my lung-play's
gone, tu, an' my sight's come awver that coorious. Be Gaffer Lezzard nigh?"

"Here, alongside 'e, Bill."

"Gimme your hand then, an' let auld scores be wiped off in this shattering calamity. Us have
differed wheer us could these twoscore years; but theer mustn't be no more ill-will wi' me
tremblin' on the lip o' the graave."

"None at all; if 't wasn't for Widow Coomstock," said Gaffer Lezzard. "You 'm tu pushing theer,
an' I say it even now, for truth's truth, though it be the last thing a man's ear holds."

"Break it to her gentle," said Billy, ignoring the other's criticism; "she'm on in years, and
have cast a kindly eye awver me since the early sixties. My propositions never was more than
agreeable conversation to her, but it might have come. Tell her theer's a world beyond marriage
customs, an' us'll meet theer."

Old Lezzard showed a good deal of anger at this speech, but being in a minority fell back and
held his peace.

"Would 'e like to see passon, dear sawl?" asked Mr. Chapple, who walked on Billy's left with
his gun reversed, as though at a funeral.

"Me an' him be out, along o' rheumatics keeping me from the House of God this month," said
the sufferer, "but at a solemn death-bed hour like this here, I'd soon see un as not. Ban't
no gert odds, for I forgive all mankind, and doan't feel no more malice than a bird in a tree."

"You're a silly old ass," burst out Grimbal roughly. "There's nothing worth naming the matter
with you, and you know it better than we do. The Devil looks after his own, seemingly. Any
other man would have been killed ten times over."

Billy whined and even wept at this harsh reproof. "Ban't a very fair way to speak to an auld
gunpowder-blawn piece, like what I be now," he said; "gormed if 't is."

"Very onhandsome of 'e, Mr. Grimbal," declared the stout Chappie; "an' you so young an' in
the prime of life, tu!"

Here Phoebe met them, and Mr. Blee, observing the signs of tears upon her face, supposed that
anxiety for him had wet her cheeks, and comforted his master's child.

"Doan't 'e give way, missy. 'T is all wan, an' I ban't 'feared of the tomb, as I've tawld 'em.
Us must rot, every bone of us, in our season, an' 't is awnly the thought of it, not the fear
of it, turns the stomach. But what's a wamblyness of the innards, so long as a body's sawl
be ripe for God?"

"A walkin' sermon!" said Mr. Chappie.

Doctor Parsons was waiting for Billy at Monks Barton, and if John Grimbal had been brusque,
the practitioner proved scarcely less so. He pronounced Mr. Blee but little hurt, bandaged
his arm, plastered his head, and assured him that a pipe and a glass of spirits was all he
needed to fortify his sinking spirit. The party ate and drank, raised a cheer for Miller Lyddon
and then went homewards. Only Mr. Chappie and Gaffer Lezzard entered the house and had a wineglass
or two of some special sloe gin. Mr. Lezzard thawed and grew amiable over this beverage, and
Mr. Chappie repeated Billy's lofty sentiments at the approach of death for the benefit of Miller
Lyddon.

"'T is awnly my fearless disposition," declared the wounded man with great humility; "no partic'lar
credit to me. I doan't care wan iotum for the thought of churchyard mould--not wan iotum. I
knaw the value of gude rich soil tu well; an' a man as grudges the rames[3] of hisself to the
airth that's kept un threescore years an' ten's a carmudgeonly cuss, surely."

[3] Rames = skeleton; remains.

"An' so say I; theer's true wisdom in it," declared Mr. Chapple, while the miller nodded.

"Theer be," concluded Gaffer Lezzard. "I allus sez, in my clenching way, that I doan't care
a farden damn what happens to my bones, if my everlasting future be well thought on by passon.
So long as I catch the eye of un an' see um beam 'pon me to church now an' again, I'm content
with things as they are."

"As a saved sawl you 'm in so braave a way as the best; but, to say it without rudeness, as
food for the land a man of your build be nought, Gaffer," argued Mr. Chapple, who viewed the
veteran's withered anatomy from his own happy vantage ground of fifteen stone.

But Gaffer Lezzard would by no means allow this.

"Ban't quantity awnly tells, my son. 'T is the aluminium in a man's bones that fats land--roots
or grass or corn. Anybody of larnin', 'll tell 'e that. Strip the belly off 'e, an', bone for
bone, a lean man like me shaws as fair as you. No offence offered or taken, but a gross habit's
mere clay and does more harm than gude underground."

Mr. Chapple in his turn resented this contemptuous dismissal of tissue as matter of no agricultural
significance. The old men went wrangling home; Miller Lyddon and Billy retired to their beds;
the moon departed behind the distant moors; and all the darkened valley slept in snow and starlight.

CHAPTER VIII

A BROTHERS' QUARREL

Though Phoebe was surprised at Will Blanchard's mild attitude toward her weakness, she had
been less so with more knowledge. Chris Blanchard and her lover were in some degree responsible
for Will's lenity, and Clement's politic letter to the wanderer, when Phoebe's engagement was
announced, had been framed in words best calculated to shield the Miller's sore-driven daughter.
Hicks had thrown the blame on John Grimbal, on Mr. Lyddon, on everybody but Phoebe herself.
Foremost indeed he had censured Will, and pointed out that his own sustained silence, however
high-minded the reason of it, was a main factor in his sweetheart's sufferings and ultimate
submission.

In answer to this communication Blanchard magically reappeared, announced his determination
to marry Phoebe by subterfuge, and, the deed accomplished, take his punishment, whatever it
might be, with light heart. Given time to achieve a legal marriage, and Phoebe would at least
be safe from the clutches of millionaires in general.

Much had already been done by Will before he crept after the apple-christeners and accomplished
his meeting with Phoebe. A week was passed since Clement wrote the final crushing news, and
during that interval Will had been stopping with his uncle, Joel Ford, at Newton Abbot. Fate,
hard till now, played him passing fair at last. The old Superintendent Registrar still had
a soft corner in his heart for Will, and when he learnt the boy's trouble, though of cynic
mind in all matters pertaining to matrimony, he chose to play the virtuous and enraged philosopher,
much to his nephew's joy. Mr. Ford promised Will he should most certainly have the law's aid
to checkmate his dishonourable adversary; he took a most serious view of the case and declared
that all thinking men must sympathise with young Blanchard under such circumstances. But in
private the old gentleman rubbed his hands, for here was the very opportunity he desired as
much as a man well might--the chance to strike at one who had shamefully wronged him. His only
trouble was how best to let John Grimbal know whom he had to thank for this tremendous reverse;
for that deed he held necessary to complete his revenge.

As to where Will had come from, or whither he was returning, after his marriage Joel Ford cared
not. The youngster once wedded would be satisfied; and his uncle would be satisfied too. The
procedure of marriage by license requires that one of the parties shall have resided within
the Superintendent's district for a space of fifteen days preceding the giving of notice; then
application in prescribed form is made to the Registrar; and his certificate and license are
usually received one clear day later. Thus a resident in a district can be married at any time
within eight-and-forty hours of his decision. Will Blanchard had to stop with his uncle nine
or ten days more to complete the necessary fortnight, and as John Grimbal's marriage morning
was as yet above three weeks distant, Phoebe's fate in no way depended upon him.

Mr. Ford explained the position to Will, and the lover accepted it cheerfully.

"As to the marriage, that'll be hard and fast as a bench of bishops can make it; but wedding
a woman under age, against the wish of her legal guardian, is an offence against the law. Nobody
can undo the deed itself, but Miller Lyddon will have something to say afterwards. And there's
that blustering blackguard, John Grimbal, to reckon with. Unscrupulous scoundrel! Just the
sort to be lawless and vindictive if what you tell me concerning him is true."

"And so he be; let un! Who cares a brass button for him? 'T is awnly Miller I thinks of. What's
worst he can do?"

"Send you to prison, Will."

"For how long?"

"That I can't tell you exactly. Not for marrying his daughter of course, but for abduction--that's
what he'll bring against you."

"An' so he shall, uncle, an' I'll save him all the trouble I can. That's no gert hardship--weeks,
or months even. I'll go like a lark, knawin' Phoebe's safe."

So the matter stood and the days passed. Will's personal affairs, and the secret of the position
from which he had come was known only to Clement Hicks. The lover talked of returning again
thither after his marriage, but he remained vague on that point, and, indeed, modified his
plans after the above recorded conversation with his uncle. Twice he wrote to Phoebe in the
period of waiting, and the letter had been forwarded on both occasions through Clement. Two
others knew what was afoot, and during that time of trial Phoebe found Chris her salvation.
The stronger girl supported her sinking spirit and fortified her courage. Chris mightily enjoyed
the whole romance, and among those circumstances that combined to make John Grimbal uneasy
during the days of waiting was her constant presence at Monks Barton. There she came as Phoebe's
friend, and the clear, bright eyes she often turned on him made him angry, he knew not why.
As for Mrs. Blanchard, she had secretly learnt more than anybody suspected, for while Will
first determined to tell her nothing until afterwards, a second thought rebuked him for hiding
such a tremendous circumstance from his mother, and he wrote to her at full length from Newton,
saying nothing indeed of the past but setting out the future in detail. Upon the subject Mrs.
Blanchard kept her own counsel.

Preparations for Phoebe's wedding moved apace, and she lived in a dim, heart-breaking dream.
John Grimbal, despite her entreaties, continued to spend money upon her; yet each new gift
brought nothing but tears. Grown desperate in his determination to win a little affection and
regard before marriage, and bitterly conscious that he could command neither, the man plied
her with what money would buy, and busied himself to bring her happiness in spite of herself.
Troubled he was, nevertheless, and constantly sought the miller that he might listen to comforting
assurances that he need be under no concern.

"'T is natural in wan who's gwaine to say gude-bye to maidenhood so soon," declared Mr. Lyddon.
"I've thought 'bout her tears a deal. God knaws they hurt me more 'n they do her, or you either;
but such sad whims and cloudy hours is proper to the time. Love for me's got a share in her
sorrow, tu. 'T will all be well enough when she turns her back on the church-door an' hears
the weddin'-bells a-clashing for her future joy. Doan't you come nigh her much during the next
few weeks."

"Two," corrected Mr. Grimbal, moodily.

"Eh! Awnly two! Well, 't is gert darkness for me, I promise you--gert darkness comin' for Monks
Barton wi'out the butivul sound an' sight of her no more. But bide away, theer's a gude man;
bide away these coming few days. Her last maiden hours mustn't be all tears. But my gifts do
awnly make her cry, tu, if that's consolation to 'e. It's the tenderness of her li'l heart
as brims awver at kindness."

In reality, Phoebe's misery was of a complexion wholly different. The necessity for living
thus had not appeared so tremendous until she found herself launched into this sea of terrible
deception. In operation such sustained falsity came like to drive her mad. She could not count
the lies each day brought forth; she was frightened to pray for forgiveness, knowing every
morning must see a renewal of the tragedy. Hell seemed yawning for her, and the possibility
of any ultimate happiness, reached over this awful road of mendacity and deceit, was more than
her imagination could picture. With loss of self-respect, self-control likewise threatened
to depart. She became physically weak, mentally hysterical. The strain told terribly on her
nature; and Chris mourned to note a darkness like storm-cloud under her grey eyes, and unwonted
pallor upon her cheek. Dr. Parsons saw Phoebe at this juncture, prescribed soothing draughts,
and ordered rest and repose; but to Chris the invalid clung, and Mr. Lyddon was not a little
puzzled that the sister of Phoebe's bygone sweetheart should now possess such power to ease
her mind and soothe her troubled nerves.

John Grimbal obeyed the injunction laid upon him and absented himself from Monks Barton. All
was prepared for the ceremony. He had left his Red House farm and taken rooms for the present
at "The Three Crowns." Hither came his brother to see him four nights before the weddingday.
Martin had promised to be best man, yet a shadow lay between the brothers, and John, his mind
unnaturally jealous and suspicious from the nature of affairs with Phoebe, sulked of late in
a conviction that Martin had watched his great step with unfraternal indifference and denied
him the enthusiasm and congratulation proper to such an event.

The younger man found his brother scanning a new black broadcloth coat when he entered. He
praised it promptly, whereupon John flung it from him and showed no more interest in the garment.
Martin, not to be offended, lighted his pipe, took an armchair beside the fire, and asked for
some whiskey. This mollified the other a little; he produced spirits, loaded his own pipe,
and asked the object of the visit.

"A not over-pleasant business, John," returned his brother, frankly; "but 'Least said, soonest
mended.' Only remember this, nothing must ever lessen our common regard. What I am going to
say is inspired by my--"

"Yes, yes--cut that. Spit it out and have done with it. I know there's been trouble in you
for days. You can't hide your thoughts. You've been grim as a death's-head for a month--ever
since I was engaged, come to think of it. Now open your jaws and have done."

John's aggressive and hectoring manner spoke volubly of his own lack of ease. Martin nerved
himself to begin, holding it his duty, but secretly fearing the issue in the light of his brother's
hard, set face.

"You've something bothering you too, old man. I'm sure of it. God is aware I don't know much
about women myself, but--"

"Oh, dry up that rot! Don't think I'm blind, if you are. Don't deceive yourself. There's a
woman-hunger in you, too, though perhaps you haven't found it out yet. What about that Blanchard
girl?"

Martin flushed like a schoolboy; his hand went up over his mouth and chin as though to hide
part of his guilt, and he looked alarmed and uneasy.

John laughed without mirth at the other's ludicrous trepidation.

"Good heavens! I've done nothing surely to suggest--?"

"Nothing at all--except look as if you were going to have a fit every time you get within a
mile of her. Lovers know the signs, I suppose. Don't pretend you're made of different stuff
to the rest of us, that's all."

Martin removed his hand and gasped before the spectacle of what he had revealed to other eyes.
Then, after a silence of fifteen seconds, he shut his mouth again, wiped his forehead with
his hand, and spoke.

"I've been a silly fool. Only she's so wonderfully beautiful--don't you think so?"

"A gypsy all over--if you call that beautiful."

The other flushed up again, but made no retort.

"Never mind me or anybody else. I want to speak to you about Phoebe, if I may, John. Who have
I got to care about but you? I'm only thinking of your happiness, for that's dearer to me than
my own; and you know in your heart that I'm speaking the truth when I say so."

"Stick to your gate-posts and old walls and cow-comforts and dead stones. We all know you can
look farther into Dartmoor granite than most men, if that's anything; but human beings are
beyond you and always were. You'd have come home a pauper but for me."

"D' you think I'm not grateful? No man ever had a better brother than you, and you've stood
between me and trouble a thousand times. Now I want to stand between you and trouble."

"What the deuce d' you mean by naming Phoebe, then?"

"That is the trouble. Listen and don't shout me down. She's breaking her heart--blind or not
blind, I see that--breaking her heart, not for you, but Will Blanchard. Nobody else has found
it out; but I have, and I know it's my duty to tell you; and I've done it."

An ugly twist came into John Grimbal's face. "You've done it; yes. Go on."

"That's all, brother, and from your manner I don't believe it's entirely news to you."

"Then get you gone, damned snake in the grass! Get gone, 'fore I lay a hand on you! You to
turn and bite me! Me, that's made you! I see it all--your blasted sheep's eyes at Chris Blanchard,
and her always at Monks Barton! Don't lie about it," he roared, as Martin raised his hand to
speak; "not a word more will I hear from your traitor's lips. Get out of my sight, you sneaking
hypocrite, and never call me 'brother' no more, for I'll not own to it!"

"You'll be sorry for this, John."

"And you too. You'll smart all your life long when you think of this dirty trick played against
a brother who never did you no hurt. You to come between me and the girl that's promised to
marry me! And for your own ends. A manly, brotherly plot, by God!"

"I swear, on my sacred honour, there's no plot against you. I've never spoken to a soul about
this thing, nor has a soul spoken of it to me; that's the truth."

"Rot you, and your sacred honour too! Go, and take your lies with you, and keep your own friends
henceforth, and never cross my threshold more--you or your sacred, stinking honour either."

Martin rose from his chair dazed and bewildered. He had seen his brother's passion wither up
many a rascal in the past; but he himself had never suffered until now, and the savagery of
this language hurled against his own pure motives staggered him. He, of course, knew nothing
about Will Blanchard's enterprise, and his blundering and ill-judged effort to restrain his
brother from marrying Phoebe was absolutely disinterested. It had been a tremendous task to
him to speak on this delicate theme, and regard for John alone actuated him; now he departed
without another word and went blankly to the little new stone house he had taken and furnished
on the outskirts of Chagford under Middledown. He walked along the straight street of whitewashed
cots that led him to his home, and reflected with dismay on this catastrophe. The conversation
with his brother had scarcely occupied five minutes; its results promised to endure a lifetime.

Meanwhile, and at the identical hour of this tremendous rupture, Chris Blanchard, well knowing
that the morrow would witness Phoebe's secret marriage to her brother, walked down to see her.
It happened that a small party filled the kitchen of Monks Barton, and the maid who answered
her summons led Chris through the passage and upstairs to Phoebe's own door. There the girls
spoke in murmurs together, while various sounds, all louder than their voices, proceeded from
the kitchen below. There were assembled the miller, Billy Blee, Mr. Chapple, and one Abraham
Chown, the police inspector of Chagford, a thin, black-bearded man, oppressed with the cares
of his office.

"They be arranging the programme of festive delights," explained Phoebe. "My heart sinks in
me every way I turn now. All the world seems thinking about what's to come; an' I knaw it never
will."

"'T is a wonnerful straange thing to fall out. Never no such happened before, I reckon. But
you 'm doin' right by the man you love, an' that's a thought for 'e more comfortin' than gospel
in a pass like this. A promise is a promise, and you've got to think of all your life stretching
out afore you. Will's jonic, take him the right way, and that you knaw how to do--a straight,
true chap as should make any wife happy. Theer'll be waitin' afterwards an' gude need for all
the patience you've got; but wance the wife of un, allus the wife of un; that's a butivul thing
to bear in mind."

"'T is so; 't is everything. An' wance we'm wed, I'll never tell a lie again, an' atone for
all I have told, an' do right towards everybody."

"You caan't say no fairer. Be any matter I can help 'e with?"

"Nothing. It's all easy. The train starts for Moreton at half-past nine. Sam Bonus be gwaine
to drive me in, and bide theer for me till I come back from Newton. Faither's awnly too pleased
to let me go. I said 't was shopping."

"An' when you come home you'll tell him--Mr. Lyddon--straight?"

"Everything, an' thank God for a clean breast again."

"An' Will?"

"Caan't say what he'll do after. Theer'll be no real marryin' for us yet a while. Faither can
have the law of Will presently,--that's all I knaw."

"Trust Will to do the right thing; and mind, come what may to him, theer's allus Clem Hicks
and me for friends."

"Ban't likely to be many others left, come to-morrow night. But I've run away from my own thoughts
to think of you and him often of late days. He'll get money and marry you, won't he, when his
aunt, Mrs. Coomstock, dies?"

"No; I thought so tu, an' hoped it wance; but Clem says what she've got won't come his way.
She's like as not to marry, tu--there 'm a lot of auld men tinkering after her, Billy Blee
among 'em."

Sounds arose from beneath. They began with harsh and grating notes, interrupted by a violent
hawking and spitting. Then followed renewal of the former unlovely noises. Presently, at a
point in the song, for such it was, half a dozen other voices drowned the soloist in a chorus.

"'T is Billy rehearsin' moosic," explained Phoebe, with a sickly smile. "He haven't singed
for a score of years; but they've awver-persuaded him and he's promised to give 'em an auld
ballet on my wedding-day."

"My stars! 't is a gashly auld noise sure enough," criticised Phoebe's friend frankly; "for
all the world like a stuck pig screechin', or the hum of the threshin' machine poor faither
used to have, heard long ways off."

Quavering and quivering, with sudden painful flights into a cracked treble, Billy's effort
came to the listeners.

    "'Twas on a Monday marnin'
       Afore the break of day,
     That I tuked up my turmit-hoe
       An' trudged dree mile away!"

Then a rollicking chorus, with rough music in it, surged to their ears--

    "An' the fly, gee hoppee!
     The fly, gee whoppee!
     The fly be on the turmits,
     For 't is all my eye for me to try
     An' keep min off the turmits!"

Mr. Blee lashed his memory and slowly proceeded, while Chris, moved by a sort of sudden mother-instinct
towards pale and tearful Phoebe, strained her to her bosom, hugged her very close, kissed her,
and bid her be hopeful and happy.

"Taake gude heart, for you 'm to mate the best man in all the airth but wan!" she said; "an',
if 't is awnly to keep Billy from singing in public, 't is a mercy you ban't gwaine to take
Jan Grimbal. Doan't 'e fear for him. There'll be a thunder-storm for sartain; then he'll calm
down, as better 'n him have had to 'fore now, an' find some other gal."

With this comfort Chris caressed Phoebe once more, heartily pitying her helplessness, and wishing
it in her power to undertake the approaching ordeal on the young bride's behalf. Then she departed,
her eyes almost as dim as Phoebe's. For a moment she forgot her own helpless matrimonial projects
in sorrow for her brother and his future wife. Marriage at the registry office represented
to her, as to most women, an unlovely, uncomfortable, and unfinished ceremony. She had as easily
pictured a funeral without the assistance of the Church as a wedding without it.

CHAPTER IX

OUTSIDE EXETER GAOL

Within less than twelve hours of the time when she bid Chris farewell Phoebe Lyddon was Phoebe
Lyddon no more. Will met her at Newton; they immediately proceeded to his uncle's office; and
the Registrar had made them man and wife in space of time so brief that the girl could hardly
realise the terrific event was accomplished, and that henceforth she belonged to Will alone.
Mr. Ford had his little joke afterwards in the shape of a wedding-breakfast and champagne.
He was gratified at the event and rejoiced to be so handsomely and tremendously revenged on
his unfortunate enemy. The young couple partook of the good things provided for them; but appetite
was lacking to right enjoyment of the banquet, and Will and his wife much desired to escape
and be alone.

Presently they returned to the station and arrived there before Phoebe's train departed. Her
husband then briefly explained the remarkable course of action he designed to pursue.

"You must be a braave gal and think none the worse of me. But't is this way: I've broke law,
and a month or two, or six, maybe, in gaol have got to be done. Your faither will see to that."

"Prison! O, Will! For marryin' me?"

"No, but for marryin' you wi'out axin' leave. Miller Lyddon told me the upshot of taking you,
if I done it; an' I have; an' he'll keep his word. So that's it. I doan't want to make no more
trouble; an' bein' a man of resource I'm gwaine up to Exeter by first train, so soon as you've
started. Then all bother in the matter will be saved Miller."

"O Will! Must you?"

"Ess fay, 't is my duty. I've thought it out through many hours. The time'll soon slip off;
an' then I'll come back an' stand to work. Here's a empty carriage. Jump in. I can sit along
with 'e for a few minutes."

"How ever shall I begin? How shall I break it to them, dearie?"

"Hold up your li'l hand," said Will with a laugh. "Shaw 'em the gawld theer. That'll speak
for 'e. 'S truth!" he continued, with a gesture of supreme irritation, "but it's a hard thing
to be snatched apart like this--man an' wife. If I was takin' 'e home to some lew cot, all
our very awn, how differ'nt 't would be!"

"You will some day."

"So I will then. I've got 'e for all time, an' Jan Grimbal's missed 'e for all time. Damned
if I ban't a'most sorry for un!"

"So am I,--in a way,--as you are. My heart hurts me to think of him. He'll never forgive me."

"Me, you mean. Well, 't is man to man, an' I ban't feared of nothing on two legs. You just
tell 'em that 't was to be, that you never gived up lovin' me, but was forced into lyin' and
such-like by the cruel way they pushed 'e. Shaw 'em the copy of the paper if they doan't b'lieve
the ring. An' when Miller lifts up his voice to cuss me, tell un quiet that I knawed what must
come of it, and be gone straight to Exeter Gaol to save un all further trouble. He'll see then
I'm a thinking, calculating man, though young in years."

Phoebe was now reduced to sighs and dry sobs. Will sat by her a little longer, patted her hands
and spoke cheerfully. Then the train departed and he jumped from it as it moved and ran along
the platform with a last earnest injunction.

"See mother first moment you can an' explain how 't is. Mother'll understand, for faither did
similar identical, though he wasn't put in clink for it."

He waved his hand and Phoebe passed homewards. Then the fire died out of his eyes and he sighed
and turned. But no shadow of weakness manifested itself in his manner. His jaw hardened, he
smote his leg with his stick, and, ascertaining the time of the next train to Exeter, went
back to bid Mr. Ford farewell before setting about his business.

Will told his uncle nothing concerning the contemplated action; and such silence was unfortunate,
for had he spoken the old man's knowledge must have modified his fantastic design. Knowing
that Will came mysteriously from regular employment which he declined to discuss, and assuming
that he now designed returning to it, Mr. Ford troubled no more about him. So his nephew thanked
the Registrar right heartily for all the goodness he had displayed in helping two people through
the great crisis of their lives, and went on his way. His worldly possessions were represented
by a new suit of blue serge which he wore, and a few trifles in a small carpet-bag.

It was the past rather than the present or future which troubled Will on his journey to Exeter;
and the secret of the last six months, whatever that might be, lay heavier on his mind than
the ordeal immediately ahead of him. In this coming achievement he saw no shame; it was merely
part payment for an action lawless but necessary. He prided himself always on a great spirit
of justice, and justice demanded that henceforth he must consider the family into which he
had thus unceremoniously introduced himself. To no man in the wide world did he feel more kindly
disposed than to Miller Lyddon; and his purpose was now to save his father-in-law all the annoyance
possible.

Arrived at Exeter, Will walked cheerfully away to the County Gaol, a huge red-brick pile that
scarce strikes so coldly upon the eye of the spectator as ordinary houses of detention. Grey
and black echo the significance of a prison, but warm red brick strikes through the eye to
the brain, and the colour inspires a genial train of ideas beyond reason's power instantly
to banish. But the walls, if ruddy, were high, and the rows of small, remote windows, black
as the eye-socket of a skull, stretched away in dreary iron-bound perspective where the sides
of the main fabric rose upward to its chastened architectural adornments. Young Blanchard grunted
to himself, gripped his stick, from one end of which was suspended his carpet-bag, and walked
to the wicket at the side of the prison's main entrance. He rang a bell that jangled with tremendous
echoes among the naked walls within; then there followed the rattle of locks as the sidegate
opened, and a warder looked out to ask Will his business. The man was burly and of stout build,
while his fat, bearded face, red as the gaol walls themselves, attracted Blanchard by its pleasant
expression. Will's eyes brightened at the aspect of this janitor; he touched his hat very civilly,
wished the man "good afternoon," and was about to step in when the other stopped him.

"Doan't be in such a hurry, my son. What's brought 'e, an' who do 'e want?"

"My business is private, mister; I wants to see the head man."

"The Governor? Won't nobody less do? You can't see him without proper appointment. But maybe
a smaller man might serve your turn?"

Will reflected, then laughed at the warder with that sudden magic of face that even softened
hard hearts towards him.

"To be plain, mate, I'm here to stop. You'll be sure to knaw 'bout it sooner or late, so I'll
tell 'e now. I've done a thing I must pay for, and 't is a clink job, so I've comed right along."

The warder grew rather sterner, and his eye instinctively roamed for a constable.

"Best say no more, then. Awnly you've comed to the wrong place. Police station's what you want,
I reckon."

"Why for? This be County Gaol, ban't it?"

"Ess, that's so; but we doan't take in folks for the axin'. Tu many queer caraters about."

Will saw the man's eyes twinkle, yet he was puzzled at this unexpected problem.

"Look here," he said, "I like you, and I'll deal fair by you an' tell you the rights of it.
Step out here an' listen."

"Mind, what you sez will be used against you, then."

"Theer ban't no secret in it, for that matter."

The husband thereupon related his recent achievement, and concluded thus:

"So, having kicked up a mort o' trouble, I doan't want to make no more--see? An' I stepped
here quiet to keep it out of the papers, an' just take what punishment's right an' vitty for
marryin' a maid wi'out so much as by your leave. Now, then, caan't 'e do the rest?"

He regarded the warder gravely and inquiringly, but as the red-faced man slowly sucked up the
humour of the situation, his mouth expanded and his eyes almost disappeared. Then he spoke
through outbursts and shakings of deep laughter.

"Oh Lard! Wheerever was you born to?"

Will flushed deeply, frowned, and clenched his fists at this question.

"Shut your gert mouth!" he said angrily. "Doan't bellow like that, or I'll hit 'e awver the
jaw! Do'e think I want the whole of Exeter City to knaw my errand? What's theer to gape an'
snigger at? Caan't 'e treat a man civil?"

This reproof set the official off again, and only a furious demand from Blanchard to go about
his business and tell the Governor he wanted an interview partially steadied him.

"By Gor! you'll be the death of me. Caan't help it--honour bright--doan't mean no rudeness
to you. Bless your young heart, an' the gal's, whoever she be. Didn't 'e knaw? But theer! course
you didn't, else you wouldn't be here. Why, 't is purty near as hard to get in prison as out
again. You'll have to be locked up, an' tried by judge an' jury, and plead guilty, and be sentenced,
an' the Lard He knaws what beside 'fore you come here. How do the lawyers an' p'licemen get
their living?"

"That's news. I hoped to save Miller Lyddon all such trouble."

"Why not try another way, an' see if you can get the auld gentleman to forgive 'e?"

"Not him. He'll have the law in due time."

"Well, I'm 'mazin' sorry I caan't oblige 'e, for I'm sure we'd be gude friends, an' you'd cheer
us all up butivul."

"But you 'm certain it caan't be managed?"

"Positive."

"Then I've done all a man can. You'll bear witness I wanted to come, won't 'e?"

"Oh yes, I'll take my oath o' that. I shaan't forget 'e."

"All right. And if I'm sent here again, bimebye, I'll look out for you, and I hopes you'll
be as pleasant inside as now."

"I'll promise that. Shall be awnly tu pleased to make you at home. I like you; though, to be
frank, I reckon you'm tu gnat-brained a chap to make a wife happy."

"Then you reckon a damned impedent thing! What d' you knaw 'bout it?"

"A tidy deal. I've been married more years than you have hours, I lay."

"Age ban't everything; 't is the fashion brains in a man's head counts most."

"That's right enough. 'T is something to knaw that. Gude-bye to 'e, bwoy, an' thank you for
makin' me laugh heartier than I have this month of Sundays."

"More fule you!" declared Will; but he was too elated at the turn of affairs to be anything
but amiable just now. Before the other disappeared, he stopped him.

"Shake hands, will 'e? I thank you for lightenin' my mind--bein' a man of law, in a manner
of speakin'. Ess, I'm obliged to 'e. Of coourse I doan't want to come to prison 'zackly. That's
common sense."

"Most feel same as you. No doubt you're in the wrong, though the law caan't drop on honest,
straightforrard matrimony to my knowledge. Maybe circumstances is for 'e."

"Ess, they be--every jack wan of 'em!" declared Will. "An' if I doan't come here to stop, I'll
call in some day and tell 'e the upshot of this coil in a friendly way."

"Do so, an' bring your missis. Shall be delighted to see the pair of 'e any time. Ax for Thomas
Bates."

Will nodded and marched off, while the warder returned to his post, and when he had again made
fast the door behind him, permitted the full splendor of his recent experience to tumble over
his soul in a laughter perhaps louder than any heard before or since within the confines of
one of Her Majesty's prisons.

CHAPTER X

THE BRINGING OF THE NEWS

Phoebe meantime returned to Chagford, withdrew herself into her chamber, and feverishly busied
brains and hands with a task commended that morning by Will when she had mentioned it to him.
The various trinkets and objects of value lavished of late upon her by John Grimbal she made
into a neat packet, and tied up a sealskin jacket and other furs in a second and more bulky
parcel. With these and a letter she presently despatched a maid to Mr. Grimbal's temporary
address. Phoebe's note explained how, weak and friendless until the sudden return of Will into
her life, she had been thrown upon wickedness, falsehood, and deceit to win her own salvation
in the face of all about her. She told him of the deed done that day, begged him to be patient
and forget her, and implored him to forgive her husband, who had fought with the only weapons
at his command. It was a feeble communication, and Phoebe thought that her love for Will might
have inspired words more forcible; but relief annihilated any other emotion; she felt thankful
that the lying, evasion, and prevarication of the last horrible ten days were at an end. From
the nightmare of that time her poor, bruised conscience emerged sorely stricken; yet she felt
that the battle now before her was a healthy thing by comparison, and might serve to brace
her moral senses rather than not. 

He found himself again without money, and by a coincidence which must be mentioned, the diligence from
Paris to Rouen was robbed, during his stay at Tournebut, in November, 1806, at the Mill of Monflaines,
about a hundred yards from Authevernes, where the preceding attacks had taken place. The booty
was not large this time, and when d'Aché again took the road to Mandeville
his resources consisted of six hundred francs.

He was obliged to spend the winter in torturing idleness; there is no indication of his movements
till February, 1807.

The time fixed for the great events was drawing near, and it was
important to make them known.

He decided on the plan of a manifesto which was to be widely circulated through the whole province,
and would not allow any one to assist in drawing it up.

This proclamation, written in the name of the princes, stipulated a general amnesty, the retention
of those in authority, a reduction of taxation, and the abolition
of conscription.

Lanoë, summoned to Mandeville, received ten louis and the manuscript
of the manifesto, with the order to get it printed as secretly as
possible.

The crafty Norman promised, slipped the paper into the lining of his coat, and after a fruitless-- and
probably very feeble-- attempt on a printer's apprentice at Falaise, returned it to Flierlé, with
many admonitions to be prudent, but only refunded five louis.

Flierlé first applied to a bookseller in the Froide Rue at Caen. The latter, as soon as he found
out what it contained, refused his assistance.

An incident now occurred, the importance of which it is difficult to discover, but which seems
to have been great, to judge from the mystery in which it is shrouded.

Whether he had received some urgent communication from England, or whether, in his state of destitution,
he had thought of claiming the help of his friends at Tournebut, d'Aché despatched Flierlé
to Mme. de Combray, and gave him two letters, advising him to use
the greatest discretion.

Flierlé set out on horseback from Caen in the morning of March 13th. At dawn next day he arrived
at Rouen, and immediately repaired to the house of a Mme. Lambert, a milliner in the Rue de
l'Hôpital, to whom one of the letters was addressed. "I gave it to her," he said, "on her
staircase, without speaking to her, as I had been told to do, and set out that very morning for
Tournebut, where I arrived between two and three o'clock. I gave Mme. de Combray the other letter,
which she threw in the fire after having read it."

Flierlé slept at the château. Next day Bonnoeil conducted him to Louviers, and there intrusted
a packet of letters to him addressed to d'Aché. Both directed their steps to Rouen, and the
German fetched from the Rue de l'Hôpital, the milliner's reply, which
she gave him herself without saying a word.

He immediately continued his journey, and by March 20th was back at Mandeville, and placed the
precious mail in d'Aché's hands.

The latter had scarcely read it before he sent David word to get his boat ready, and without
losing a moment, the letters which had arrived from Rouen were taken out to sea to the English
fleet, to be forwarded to London.

We are still ignorant of the contents of these mysterious despatches, and inquiry on this point
is reduced to supposition. Some pretended that d'Aché sent the manifesto to Mme. de Combray, and
that it was clandestinely printed in the cellars at Tournebut; others maintain that towards March
15th Bonnoeil returned from Paris, bringing with him the correspondence of the secret royalist
committee which was to be sent to the English Cabinet via Mandeville.

D'Aché certainly attached immense importance to this expedition, which ought, according to him,
to make the princes decide on the immediate despatch of funds, and to hasten the preparation for the
attack on the island of Tahitou. But days passed and no reply came. In the agony of uncertainty
he decided to approach Le Chevalier, whom he only knew by reputation as being a shrewd and resolute
man. The meeting took place at Trévières towards the middle of April, 1807. Le Chevalier brought
one of his aides-de-camp with him, but d'Aché came alone.

The names of these two men are so little known, they occupy such a very humble place in history,
that we can hardly imagine, now that we know how pitifully their
dreams miscarried, how without being ridiculous they could fancy that
any result whatever could come of their meeting.

The surroundings made them consider themselves important: d'Aché was-- or thought he was-- the
mouthpiece of the exiled King; as for Le Chevalier, whether from vainglory or credulity he
boasted of an immense popularity with the Chouans, and spoke mysteriously of the royalist
committee which, working in Paris, had succeeded, he said, in rallying
to the cause men of considerable importance in the entourage of the
Emperor himself.

Since he had been Mme.

Acquet's adored lover, Le Chevalier's visits to the Café Hervieux had become rarer; his parasites
had dispersed, and although he still kept up his house in the Rue Saint-Sauveur at Caen, he spent
the greater part of his time either at Falaise or at La Bijude, where his devoted mistress
alternately lived.

The police of Count Caffarelli, Prefect of Calvados, had ceased keeping an eye on him, and he even
received a passport for Paris, whither he went frequently.

He always returned more confident than before, and in the little group amongst whom he lived
at Falaise-- consisting of his cousin, Dusaussay, two Chouan comrades, Beaupaire and Desmontis;
a doctor in the Frotté army, Révérend; and the Notary of the Combray
family, Maître Febre-- he was never tired of talking in confidence
about the secret Royalist Committee, and the near approach of the
Restoration.

The revolution which was to bring it about, was to be a very peaceful one, according to him. Bonaparte,
taken prisoner by two of his generals, each at the head of 40,000
men, was to be handed over to the English and replaced by "a regency,
the members of which were to be chosen from among the senators who
could be trusted."

The Comte d'Artois was then to be recalled-- or his son, the Duc de Berry-- to take possession
of the kingdom as Lieutenant-General.

Did Le Chevalier believe in this Utopia? It has been said that in propagating it "he only sought
to intoxicate the people and excite them to acts of pillage, the
profits of which would come to him without any of the danger."

This accusation fits in badly with the chivalrous loyalty of his character. It seems more probable
that on one of his journeys to Paris he fell into the trap set by the spy Perlet who, paid
by the princes to be their chief intelligence agent, sold their correspondence to Fouché and
handed over to the police the royalists who brought the letters. This Perlet had invented,
as a bait for his trap, a committee of powerful persons who, he boasted, he had won over to
the royal cause, and doubtless Le Chevalier was one of his only too numerous victims. Whatever
it was, Le Chevalier took a pride in his high commissions, and went to meet d'Aché as an equal, if
not a rival.

At the beginning, the conference was more than cold.

These two men, so different in appearance and character, both aspired
to play a great part and were instinctively jealous of each other.

Their own personal feelings divided them. One was the lover of Mme. Acquet de Férolles, the
other was the friend of Mme. de Combray, and the latter blamed her daughter for her misconduct,
and had forbidden her ever to come back to Tournebut. Le Chevalier, after the usual civilities,
refused to continue the conversation till he was informed of the exact nature of the powers
conferred by the King on his interlocutor, and the authority with
which he was invested.

Now, d'Aché had never had any written authority, and arrogantly intrenched himself behind
the confidence which the princes had shown in him from the very first days of the revolution. He
stated that he was expecting a regular commission from them. Whereupon Le Chevalier, seizing
the advantage, called him an "agent of the English," and placing his pistols on the table "invited
him to blow out his brains immediately." They both grew calmer, however,
and explained their plans.

Le Chevalier knew most of the Norman Chouans, either from having fought by their side, or from having
made their acquaintance in the various prisons in Caen or Evreux, wherein he had been confined.
He therefore undertook the enrollment and management of the army, the command of which he would
assign to two men who were devoted to him.

The name of one is not published; they say he was an ex-chief of Staff to Charette. The other
was famous through the whole revolt of the Chouans under the pseudonym of General Antonio; his
real name was Allain, and he had been working with Le Chevalier since the year IX. The latter was
sure also of the cooperation of his friend M. de Grimont, manager of the stud at Argentan, who would
furnish the prince's army with the necessary cavalry; besides which he offered to go to Paris
for the "great event," and took upon himself with the assistance of certain accomplices "to
secure the imperial treasury." D'Aché, for his part, was to go to England to fetch the King,
and was to preside over the disembarkation and lead the Russo-Swedish
army through insurgent Normandy to the gates of the capital.

Their work thus assigned, the two men parted allies, but not friends.

D'Aché was offended at Le Chevalier's pretensions; the latter returning
to Mme.

Acquet, did not disguise the fact that, in his opinion, d'Aché was nothing but a common intriguer
and an agent of England.

There still remained the question of money which, for the moment, took precedence of all others.
They had agreed that it was necessary to pillage the coffers of the
state whilst waiting the arrival of subsidies from England, but neither
d'Aché nor Le Chevalier expressed himself openly; each wished to leave
the responsibility of the theft to the other.

Later, they both obstinately rejected it, Le Chevalier affirming that d'Aché had ordered the
stopping of public conveyances in the King's name, while d'Aché disowned Le Chevalier, accusing
him of having brought the cause into disrepute by employing such
means.

The dispute is of little interest. The money was lacking, and not only were the royal coffers
empty, but what was of more immediate importance, Le Chevalier and his friends were without resources.
In consequence of leading a wild life and sacrificing himself for
his party, he had spent his entire fortune, and was overwhelmed with
debts.

The lawyer Vanièr, who was entrusted with the management of his business affairs, lost his head
at the avalanche of bills, protests and notes of hand which poured into his office, and which
it was impossible to meet. The lawyer Lefebre, a fat and sensual free-liver, was equally low in
funds, and laid on the government the blame of the confusion into which his affairs had fallen,
though it had been entirely his own fault. As for Le Chevalier himself, he attributed his ruin,
not without justice, to his disinterestedness and devotion to the royal cause, which was his
excuse for the past and the future. Mme. Acquet, who loved him blindly, had given her last louis
to provide for his costly liberality. Touching letters from her are extant, proving how attached
she was to him: "I am herewith sending you a letter from Mme.

Blins" (a creditor). "My only regret is that I have not the sum. It would have given me great
pleasure to pay it for you, and then you would never have known.... I love you with all my heart.
I am entirely yours, and there is nothing I would not do for you.... Love me as I love you.
I embrace you tenderly."

"There is nothing I would not do for you,"-- and the poor woman was wretched in the knowledge that
the hero whom she idolised was hampered for want of small sums of money. She could not ward
off the trouble, since her demand for a separation had recently been refused. Acquet was triumphant.
She was reduced to living on a modest pension of 2,000 francs, and not able to sell what she
had inherited from her father.

One evening, when she and Lanoë were alone in the Hôtel de Combray, in the Rue du Tripot at
Falaise, one part of which was rented to the collector of taxes, she heard through the wall the
chinking of the money, which they were packing into bags. On hearing it she fell into a sort
of delirium, thinking that here was the wherewithal to satisfy her
lover's fancies.... "Lanoë," she said suddenly, "I must have some
money; I only want 10,000 francs."

The terrified Lanoë gave her no answer then, but a few days later,
when he was driving her back in her cabriolet to Falaise from La Bijude,
she returned to the charge, and gave him a piece of yellow wax wrapped
up in cotton telling him to go and take an impression of the tax collector's
lock as soon as they arrived at the Rue du Tripot.

Lanoë excused himself, saying that the house belonged to M. Timoléon,
and that disagreeable consequences might arise. But she insisted. "I must
have the impression," she said. "I do not tell you why I want it, but
I will have it." Lanoë, to get out of a task he did not like, went away and
secretly took an impression of the lock of the hayloft.

A key was made by this pattern, and when night came the Marquise de Combray's
daughter stole down-- holding her breath and walking noiselessly--
to the tax collector's office, and vainly tried to open the door.*****
About the same time Le Chevalier, who had just returned from a journey
to Paris, heard from the lawyer Vanièr, who was quite as much in debt
as his client, that the pecuniary situation was desperate.

"I dread," wrote Vanièr, "the accomplishment of the psalm: Unde veniet auxilium nobis quia
perimus." To which Le Chevalier replied, as he invariably did: "In six weeks, or perhaps less,
the King will be again on his throne. Brighter days will dawn, and we shall have good posts.
Now is the time to show our zeal, for those who have done nothing will, as is fair, have nothing
to expect."

He added that the hour was propitious, "since Bonaparte was in the
middle of Germany with his whole army."

He loved to talk this way, as it made him appear, as it were, Napoleon's rival, raising him to
the place he held in his own imagination. CHAPTER V THE AFFAIR OF QUESNAY The lawyer, Lefebre,
of high stature, with broad shoulders and florid complexion, loved to dine well, and spent his time
between billiards, "Calvados" and perorations in the cafés. For taking this part in the conspiracy
he expected a fat sinecure on the return of the Bourbons, in recompense for his devotion. Early
in April, 1807, Lefebre and Le Chevalier were dining together at the Hôtel du Point-de-France
at Argentan. They had found Beaurepaire, Desmontis and the Cousin Dusaussay there; they went to
the café and stayed there several hours.

Allain, called General Antonio, whom Le Chevalier had chosen as his chief lieutenant, appeared
and was presented to the others.

Allain was over forty; he had a long nose, light eyes, a face pitted
with smallpox, and a heavy black beard; the manner of a calm and steady
bourgeois.

Le Chevalier took a playing card, tore half of it off, wrote a line
on it and gave it to Allain, saying, "This will admit you."

They talked awhile in the embrasure of a window, and the lawyer caught these words: "Once in the
church, you will go out by the door on the left, and there find a lane; it is there...." When Allain
had gone Le Chevalier informed his friends of the affair on hand. At the approach of each term, funds
were passed between the principal towns of the department; from Alençon,
Saint-Lô and Evreux money was sent to Caen, but these shipments took
place at irregular dates, and were generally accompanied by an escort
of gendarmes.

As the carriage which took the funds to Alençon usually changed horses at Argentan, it was sufficient
to know the time of its arrival in that town to deduce therefrom the hour of its appearance elsewhere.
Now Le Chevalier had secured the cooperation of a hostler named Gauthier, called "Boismâle," who
was bribed to let Dusaussay know when the carriage started. Dusaussay lived at Argentan, and
by starting immediately on horseback, he could easily arrive at the place where the conspirators
were posted several hours before the carriage.
Storm succeeded storm, explosion followed upon explosion, and the thought of the vanity of
such a display only rendered him more frantic. Then chance reminded the raging maniac of that
thing he had done, and now, removed from the deed by a little time, he gloried in it.

"Blast the devil--short shrift he got--given straight into my hand! I swore to kill him when
I heard it; an' I have--pitched him over the bridge and broken his blasted neck. I'd burn in
ragin' hell through ten lifetimes to do it again. But that's done once for all. And you can
tell your whore of a daughter she's a widow, not a wife!"

"God be gude to us!" cried Billy, while Mr. Lyddon started in dismay. "Is this true you'm tellin'?
Blue murder? An' so, like's not, his awn mother'll find un when she goes to draw water in the
marnin'!"

"Let her, and his sister, too; and my God-damned brother! All in it--every cursed one of 'em.
I'd like--I'd like--Christ--"

He broke off, was silent for a moment, then strode out of the room towards the staircase. Mr.
Lyddon heard him and rushed after him with Billy. They scrambled past and stood at the stair-foot
while Grimbal glanced up in the direction of Phoebe's room, and then glared at the two old men.

"Why not, you doddering fools? Can you still stand by her, cursed jade of lies? My work's only
half done! No man's ever betrayed me but he's suffered hell for it; and no woman shall."

He raged, and the two with beating hearts waited for him.

Then suddenly laughing aloud, the man turned his back, and passed into the night without more
words.

"Mad, so mad as any zany!" gasped Mr. Blee. "Thank God the whim's took un to go. My innards
was curdlin' afore him!"

The extravagance of Grimbal's rage had affected Mr. Lyddon also. With white and terrified face
he crept after Grimbal, and watched that tornado of a man depart.

"My stars! He do breathe forth threatenings and slaughters worse 'n in any Bible carater ever
I read of," said the miller, "and if what he sez be true--"

"I'll wager 't is. Theer 's method in him. Your son-in-law, if I may say it, be drownded, sure
's death. What a world!"

"Get the lanterns and call Sam Bonus. He must stand to this door an' let no man in while we
'm away. God send the chap ban't dead. I don't like for a long-cripple to suffer torture."

"That's your high religion. An' I'll carry the brandy, for 't is a liquor, when all 's said,
what 's saved more bodies in this world than it 's damned sawls in the next, an' a thing pleasant,
tu, used with sense--specially if a man can sleep 'fore 't is dead in un."

"Hurry, hurry! Every minute may mean life or death. I'll call Bonus; you get the lanterns."

Ten minutes later a huge labourer stood guard over Monks Barton, and the miller, with his man,
entered upon their long and fruitless search. The thaw had come, but glimmering ridges of snow
still outlined the bases of northern-facing hedges along the river. With infinite labour and
some difficulty they explored the stream, then, wet and weary, returned by the southern bank
to their starting-point at Rushford Bridge. Here Billy found a cloth cap by the water's edge,
and that was the only evidence of Will's downfall. As they clambered up from the river Mr.
Lyddon noted bright eyes shining across the night, and found that the windows of Mrs. Blanchard's
cottage were illuminated.

"They 'm waitin' for him by the looks of it," he said. "What ought us to do, I wonder?"

Billy never objected to be the bearer of news, good or ill, so that it was sensational; but
a thought struck him at seeing the lighted windows.

"Why, it may be he's theer! If so, then us might find Grimbal didn't slay un arter all. 'T
was such a miz-maze o' crooked words he let fly 'pon us, that perhaps us misread un."

"I wish I thought so. Come. Us can ax that much."

A few minutes later they stood at Mrs. Blanchard's door and knocked. The widow herself appeared,
fully dressed, wide awake, and perfectly collected. Her manner told Mr. Lyddon nothing.

"What might you want, Miller?"

"'T is Will. There's bin blows struck and violence done, I hear."

"I can tell 'e the rest. The bwoy's paid his score an' got full measure. He wanted to be even
with you, tu, but they wouldn't let un."

"If he ban't dead, I'll make him smart yet for his evil act."

"I warned 'e. He was cheated behind his back, an' played with the same cards what you did,
and played better."

"Wheer is he now? That's what I want to knaw."

"Up in the house. They met on the bridge an' Grimbal bested him, Will bein' weary an' empty-bellied.
When the man flinged him in the stream, he got under the arch behind the rocks afore he lost
his head for a time and went senseless. When he comed to he crawled up the croft and I let un in."

"Thank God he's not dead; but punishment he shall have if theer's justice in the land."

"Bide your time. He won't shirk it. But he's hurted proper; you might let Jan Grimbal knaw,
't will ease his mind."

"Not it," declared Billy; "he thought he'd killed un; cracked the neck of un."

"The blow 'pon his faace scatted abroad his left nostril; the fall brawked his arm, not his
neck; an' the spurs t' other was wearin' tored his leg to the bone. Doctor's seen un; so tell
Grimbal. Theer's pleasure in such payment."

She spoke without emotion, and showed no passion against the master of the Red House. When
Will had come to her, being once satisfied in her immediate motherly agony that his life was
not endangered, she allowed her mind a sort of secret, fierce delight at his performance and
its success in the main issue. She was proud of him at the bottom of her heart; but before
other eyes bore herself with outward imperturbability.

"You'll keep the gal, I reckon?" she said quietly; "if you can hold hand off Will till he'm
on his legs again, I'd thank you."

"I shall do what I please, when I please; an' my poor fule of a daughter stops with me as long
as I've got power to make her."

"Hope you'll live to see things might have been worse."

"That's impossible. No worse evil could have fallen upon me. My grey hairs a laughing-stock,
and your awn brother's hand in it. He knawed well enough the crime he was committing."

"You've a short memory, Miller. I lay Jan Grimbal knaws the reason if you doan't. The worm
that can sting does, if you tread on it. Gude-night to 'e."

"An' how do you find yourself now?" Billy inquired, as his master and he returned to Monks Barton.

"Weary an' sick, an' filled with gall. Was it wrong to make the match, do 'e think, seein'
't was all for love of my cheel? Was I out to push so strong for it? I seem I done right, despite
this awful mischance."

"An' so you did; an' my feelin's be the same as yours to a split hair, though I've got no language
for em at this unnatural hour of marnin'," said Billy.

Then in silence, to the bobbing illumination of their lanterns, Mr. Lyddon and his familiar
dragged their weary bodies home.

CHAPTER XI

LOVE AND GREY GRANITE

The lofty central area of Devon has ever presented a subject of fascination to geologists;
and those evidences of early man which adorn Dartmoor to-day have similarly attracted antiquarian
minds for many generations past. But the first-named student, although his researches plunge
him into periods of mundane time inconceivably more remote than that with which the archaeologist
is concerned, yet reaches conclusions more definite and arrives at a nearer approximation to
truth than any who occupy themselves in the same area with manifold and mysterious indications
of early humanity's sojourn. The granite upheaval during that awful revolt of matter represented
by the creation of Dartmoor has been assigned to a period between the Carboniferous and Permian
eras; but whether the womb of one colossal volcano or the product of a thousand lesser eruptions
threw forth this granite monster, none may yet assert. Whether Dartmoor first appeared as a
mighty shield, with one uprising spike in its midst, or as a target supporting many separate
bosses cannot be declared; for the original aspect of the region has long vanished, though
our worn and weathered land of tors still shadows, in its venerable desolation, those sublimer,
more savage glories manifested ere the eye of man or beast existed to receive an image of them.

But the earliest human problems presented by Devon's watershed admit of no sure solution, albeit
they date from a time adjacent contrasted with that wherein the land was born. Nature's message
still endures for man to read as his knowledge grows; but the records of our primal fellows
have grown dim and uncertain as the centuries rolled over them. There exists, however, within
the lofty, lonely kingdom of the granite, a chain of human evidences extending from prehistoric
ages to the ruined shepherd's cot of yesterday. At many spots a spectator may perceive in one
survey the stone ruin of the Danmonian's habitation, and hypaethral temple or forum, the heather-clad
debris left by Elizabethan streamers of alluvial tin, the inky peat-ridges from which a moorman
has just cut his winter firing. But the first-named objects, with kindred fragments that have
similarly endured, chiefly fire imagination. Seen grey at gloaming time, golden through sunny
dawns, partaking in those spectral transformations cast upon the moor by the movement of clouds,
by the curtains of the rain, by the silver of breaking day, the monotone of night and the magic
of the moon, these relics reveal themselves and stand as a link between the present and the
far past. Mystery broods over them and the jealous wings of the ages hide a measure of their
secret. Thus far these lonely rings of horrent stones and the alignments between them have
concealed their story from modern man, and only in presence of the ancient pound, the foundations
of a dwelling, the monolith that marked a stone-man's sepulchre, the robbed cairn and naked
kistvaen, may we speak with greater certainty and, through the glimmering dawn of history and
the records of Britain's earliest foes, burrow back to aboriginal man on Dartmoor. Then research
and imagination rebuild the eternal rings of granite and, erecting upon them tall domes of
thatch and skins on wattle ribs, conceive the early village like a cluster of gigantic mushrooms,
whose cowls are uplifted in that rugged fastness through the night of time. We see Palaeolithic
man sink into mother earth before the superior genius of his Neolithic successor; and we note
the Damnonian shepherds flourishing in lonely lodges and preserving their flocks from the wolf,
while Egypt's pyramids were still of modern creation, and the stars twinkled in strange constellations,
above a world innocent as yet of the legends that would name them. The stone-workers have vanished
away, but their labour endures; their fabricated flints still appear, brought to light from
barrows and peat-ties, from the burrows of rabbits and the mounds of the antiquary mole; the
ruins of their habitations, the theatres of their assemblies and unknown ceremonies still stand,
and probably will continue so to do as long as Dartmoor's bosom lies bare to the storm and
stress of the ages.

Modern man has also fretted the wide expanse, has scratched its surface and dropped a little
sweat and blood; but his mansion and his cot and his grave are no more; plutonic rock is the
only tablet on which any human story has been scribbled to endure. Castles and manor-houses
have vanished from the moorland confines like the cloudy palaces of a dream; the habitations
of the mining folk shall not be seen to-day, and their handiwork quickly returns to primitive
waste; fern and furze hide the robbed cairn and bury the shattered cross; flood and lightning
and tempest roam over the darkness of a region sacred to them, and man stretches his hand for
what Nature touches not; but the menhir yet stands erect, the "sacred" circles are circles
still, and these, with like records of a dim past, present to thinking travellers the crown
and first glory of the Moor. Integral portions of the ambient desolation are they--rude toys
that infant humanity has left in Mother Nature's lap; and the spectacle of them twines a golden
thread of human interest into the fabric of each lonely heath, each storm-scarred mountain-top
and heron-haunted stream. Nothing is changed since skin-clad soldiers and shepherds strode
these wastes, felt their hearts quicken at sight of women, or their hands clench over celt-headed
spears before danger. Here the babies of the stone-folk, as the boys and girls to-day, stained
their little mouths and ringers with fruit of briar and whortle; the ling bloomed then as now;
the cotton-grass danced its tattered plume; the sphagnum mosses opened emerald-green eyes in
marsh and quaking bog; and hoary granite scattered every ravine and desert valley. About those
aboriginal men the Moor spread forth the same horizon of solemn enfolding hills, and where
twinkle the red hides of the moor-man's heifers through upstanding fern, in sunny coombs and
hawthorn thickets, yesterday the stone-man's cattle roamed and the little eyes of a hidden
bear followed their motions. Here, indeed, the first that came in the flesh are the last to
vanish in their memorials; here Nature, to whom the hut-circle of granite, all clad in Time's
lichen livery of gold and grey, is no older than the mushroom ring shining like a necklace
of pearls within it--Nature may follow what course she will, may build as she pleases, may
probe to the heart of things, may pursue the eternal Law without let from the pigmies; and
here, if anywhere from man's precarious standpoint, shall he perceive the immutable and observe
a presentment of himself in those ephemera that dance above the burn at dawn, and ere twilight
passes gather up their gauze wings and perish.

According to individual temperament this pregnant region attracts and fascinates the human
spectator or repels him. Martin Grimbal loved Dartmoor and, apart from ties of birth and early
memories, his natural predilections found thereon full scope and play. He was familiar with
most of those literary productions devoted to the land, and now developed an ambition to add
some result of personal observation and research to extant achievements. He went to work with
method and determination, and it was not until respectable accumulations of notes and memoranda
already appeared as the result of his labours that the man finally--almost reluctantly--reconciled
himself to the existence of another and deeper interest in his life than that furnished by
the grey granite monuments of the Moor. Hide it from himself he could no longer, nor yet wholly
from others. As in wild Devon it is difficult at any time to escape from the murmur of waters
unseen, so now the steady flood of this disquieting emotion made music at all waking hours
in Martin's archaeologic mind, shattered his most subtle theories unexpectedly, and oftentimes
swept the granite clean out of his head on the flood of a golden river.

After three months of this beautiful but disquieting experience, Martin resigned himself to
the conclusion that he was in love with Chris Blanchard. He became very cautious and timid
before the discovery. He feared much and contemplated the future with the utmost distrust.
Doubt racked him; he checked himself from planning courses of conduct built on mad presumptions.
By night, as a sort of debauch, in those hours when man is awake and fancy free, he conceived
of a happy future with Chris and little children about him; at morning light, if any shadow
of that fair vision returned, he blushed and looked round furtively, as though some thought-reader's
cold eye must be sneering at such presumption. He despaired of finding neutral ground from
which his dry mind could make itself attractive to a girl. Now and again he told himself that
the new emotion must be crushed, in that it began to stand between him and the work he had
set himself to do for his county; but during more sanguine moods he challenged this decision
and finally, as was proper and right, the flood of the man's first love drowned menhir and
hut-circle fathoms deep, and demanded all his attention at the cost of mental peace. An additional
difficulty appeared in the fact that the Blanchard family were responsible for John Grimbal's
misfortune; and Martin, without confusing the two circumstances, felt that before him really
lay the problem of a wife or a brother. When first he heard of the event that set Chagford
tongues wagging so briskly, he rightly judged that John would hold him one of the conspirators;
and an engagement to Chris Blanchard must certainly confirm the baffled lover's suspicions
and part the men for ever. But before those words, as they passed through his brain, Martin
Grimbal stopped, as the peasant before a shrine. "An engagement to Chris Blanchard!" He was
too much a man and too deep merged in love to hesitate before the possibility of such unutterable
happiness.

For his brother he mourned deeply enough, and when the thousand rumours bred of the battle
on the bridge were hatched and fluttered over the countryside, Martin it was who exerted all
his power to stay them. Most people were impressed with the tragic nature of the unfortunate
John's disappointment; but his energetic measures since the event were held to pay all scores,
and it was believed the matter would end without any more trouble from him. Clement Hicks entertained
a different opinion, perhaps judging John Grimbal from the secrets of his own character; but
Will expressed a lively faith that his rival must now cry quits, after his desperate and natural
but unsuccessful attempt to render Phoebe a widow. The shattered youth took his broken bones
very easily, and only grunted when he found that his wife was not permitted to visit him under
any pretence whatever; while as for Phoebe, her wild sorrow gradually lessened and soon disappeared
as each day brought a better account of Will. John Grimbal vanished on the trip which was to
have witnessed his honeymoon. He pursued his original plans with the modification that Phoebe
had no part in them, and it was understood that he would return to Chagford in the spring.

Thus matters stood, and when his brother was gone and Will and Phoebe had been married a month,
Martin, having suffered all that love could do meantime, considered he might now approach the
Blanchards. Ignorantly he pursued an awkward course, for wholly unaware that Clement Hicks
felt any interest in Will and his sister beyond that of friendship, Martin sought from him
the general information he desired upon the subject of Chris, her family and concerns.

Together the two men went upon various excursions to ancient relics that interested them both,
though in different measure. It was long before Martin found courage to bring forth the words
he desired to utter, but finally he managed to do so, in the bracing conditions that obtained
on Cosdon Beacon upon the occasion of a visit to its summit. By this time he had grown friendly
with Hicks and must have learnt all and more than he desired to know but for the bee-keeper's
curious taciturnity. For some whim Clement never mentioned his engagement; it was a subject
as absent from his conversation as his own extreme poverty; but while the last fact Martin
had already guessed, the former remained utterly concealed from him. Neither did any chance
discover it until some time afterwards.

The hut-circles on Cosdon's south-eastern flank occupied Martin's pencil. Clement gazed once
upon the drawing, then turned away, for no feeling or poetry inspired the work; it was merely
very accurate. The sketches made, both men ascended immense Cosdon, where its crown of cairns
frets the long summit; and here, to the sound of the wind in the dead heather, with all the
wide world of Northern Devon extended beneath his gaze under a savage sunset, Martin found
courage to speak. At first Hicks did not hear. His eyes were on the pageant of the sky and
paid tribute of sad thought before an infinity of dying cloud splendours. But the antiquary
repeated his remark. It related to Will Blanchard, and upon Clement dropping a monosyllabic
reply his companion continued:

"A very handsome fellow, too. Miss Blanchard puts me in mind of him."

"They're much alike in some things. But though Chris knows her brother to be good to look at,
you'll never get Will to praise her. Funny, isn't it? Yet to his Phoebe, she's the sun to a star."

"I think so too indeed. In fact, Miss Blanchard is the most beautiful woman I ever saw."

Clement did not answer. He was gazing through the sunset at Chris, and as he looked he smiled,
and the sadness lifted a little from off his face.

"Strange some lucky fellow has not won her before now," proceeded the other, glancing away
to hide the blush that followed his diplomacy.

Here, by all experience and reason, and in the natural sequence of events Clement Hicks might
have been expected to make his confession and rejoice in his prize, but for some cause, from
some queer cross-current of disposition, he shut his mouth upon the greatest fact of his life.
He answered, indeed, but his words conveyed a false impression. What sinister twist of mind
was responsible for his silence he himself could not have explained; a mere senseless monkey-mischief
seemed to inspire it. Martin had not deceived him, because the elder man was unused to probing
a fellow-creature for facts or obtaining information otherwise than directly. Clement noted
the false intonation and hesitation, recollected his sweetheart's allusion to Martin Grimbal,
and read into his companion's question something closely akin to what in reality lay behind
it. His discovery might have been expected to hasten rather than retard the truth, and a first
impulse in any man had made the facts instantly clear; but Clement rarely acted on impulse.
His character was subtle, disingenuous, secretive. Safe in absolute possession, the discovery
of Martin's attachment did not flutter him. He laughed in his mind; then he pictured Chris
the wife of this man, reviewed the worldly improvement in her position such a union must effect,
and laughed no more. Finally he decided to hold his peace; but his motives for so doing were
not clear even to himself.

"Yes," he answered, "but she's not one to give her hand without her heart."

These words, from Martin's point of view, embraced a definite assurance that Chris was free;
and, as they walked homewards, he kept silence upon this thought for the space of half an hour.
The uneasy hopes and black fears of love circled him about. Perhaps his timorous mind, in some
moods, had been almost relieved at declaration of the girl's engagement to another. But now
the tremendous task of storming a virgin heart lay ahead of him, as he imagined. Torments unfelt
by those of less sensitive mould also awaited Martin Grimbal. The self-assertive sort of man,
who rates himself as not valueless, and whose love will not prevent callous calculation on
the weight of his own person and purse upon the argument, is doubtless wise in his generation,
and his sanguine temperament enables him to escape oceans of unrest, hurricanes of torment;
but self-distrust and humility have their value, and those who are oppressed by them fall into
no such pitiable extreme as that too hopeful lover on whose sanguine ear "No" falls like a
thunderbolt from red lips that were already considered to have spoken "Yes." A suitor who plunges
from lofty peaks of assured victory into failure falls far indeed; but Martin Grimbal stood
little chance of suffering in that sort as his brother John had done.

The antiquary spoke presently, fearing he must seem too self-absorbed, but Clement had little
to say. Yet a chance meeting twisted the conversation round to its former topic as they neared
home. Upon Chagford Bridge appeared Miller Lyddon and Mr. Blee. The latter had been whitewashing
the apple-tree stems--a course to which his master attached more importance than that pursued
on Old Christmas Eve--and through the gathering dusk the trunks now stood out livid and wan
as a regiment of ghosts.

"Heard from your brother since he left?" Mr. Lyddon inquired after evening greetings.

"I cannot yet. I hope he may write, but you are more likely to hear than I."

"Not me. I'm nothing to un now."

"Things will come right. Don't let it prey on your mind. No woman ever made a good wife who
didn't marry where her heart was," declared Martin, exhibiting some ignorance of the subject
he presumed to discuss.

"Ah! you was ag'in' us, I mind," said the miller, drawing in. "He said as much that terrible
night."

"He was wrong--utterly. I only spoke for his good. I saw that your daughter couldn't stand
the sight of him and shivered if he touched her. It was my duty to speak. Strange you didn't
see too."

"So easy to talk afterwards! I had her spoken word, hadn't I? She'd never lied in all her life
afore. Strange if I had seen, I reckon."

"You frightened her into falsehood. Any girl might have been expected to lie in that position,"
said Clement coolly; then Mr. Blee, who had been fretting to join the conversation, burst into
it unbidden.

"Be gormed if I ban't like a cat on hot bricks to hear 'e! wan might think as Miller was the
Devil hisself for cruelty instead o' bein', as all knaws, the most muty-hearted[4] faither
in Chagford."

[4] Muty-hearted = soft-hearted.

"As to that, I doan't knaw, Billy," declared Mr. Lyddon stoutly; "I be a man as metes out to
the world same measure as I get from the world. Right is right, an' law is law; an' if I doan't
have the law of Will Blanchard--"

"There's little enough you can do, I believe," said Hicks; "and what satisfaction lies in it,
I should like to know, if it's not a rude question?"

The old man answered with some bitterness, and explained his power.

"William Blanchard's done abduction, according to Lawyer Bellamy of Plymouth; an' abduction's
felony, and that's a big thing, however you look 'pon it."

"Long an' short is," cut in Billy, who much desired to air a little of his new knowledge, "that
he can get a sentence inside the limits of two years, with or without hard labour; at mercy
of judge and jury. That's his dose or not his dose, 'cording to the gracious gudeness of Miller."

"Will's nearly ready to go," said Clement. "Let his arm once be restored, and he'll do your
hard labour with a good heart, I promise you. He wants to please Mr. Lyddon, and will tackle
two months or two years or twenty."

"Two an' not a second less--with hard labour I'll wager, when all's taken into account."

"Why are you so hot, Billy Blee? You're none the worse."

"Billy's very jealous for me, same as Elijah was for the Lard o' Hosts," said Mr. Lyddon.

Then Martin and Clement climbed the steep hill that lay between them and Chagford, while the
miller and his man pursued their way through the valley.

CHAPTER XII

A STORY-BOOK

Despite the miller's explicit declaration, there was yet a doubt as to what he might do in
the matter of Will Blanchard. Six weeks is a period of time that has often served to cool dispositions
more fiery, purposes more inflexible than those of Mr. Lyddon, and his natural placidity of
temperament, despite outbreaks, had begun to reassert itself. Billy Blee, misunderstanding
his master in this, suspected that the first fires of rage were now sunk into a conflagration,
not so visible, but deeper and therefore more dangerous to the sufferer, if not to other people.
He failed to observe that each day of waiting lessened the miller's desire towards action,
and he continued to urge some step against Will Blanchard, as the only road by which his master's
peace of mind might be regained. He went further, and declared delay to be very dangerous for
Mr. Lyddon's spleen and other physical organs. But though humanity still prevented any definite
step, Billy's master so far adopted his advice as to see a solicitor and learn what the law's
power might be in the matter. Now he knew, as was recorded in the previous chapter; and still
Mr. Lyddon halted between two opinions. He usually spoke on the subject as he had spoken to
Martin Grimbal and Clement Hicks; but in reality he felt less desire in the direction of revenge
than he pretended. Undoubtedly his daughter contributed not a little to this irresolution of
mind. During the period of Will's convalescence, his wife conducted herself with great tact
and self-restraint. Deep love for her father not only inspired her, but also smoothed difficulties
from a road not easy. Phoebe kept much out of sight until the miller's first dismay and sorrow
had subsided; then she crept back into her old position and by a thousand deft deeds and proper
speeches won him again unconsciously. She anticipated his unspoken desire, brightened his every-day
life by unobtrusive actions, preserved a bright demeanour, never mentioned Will, and never
contradicted her father when he did so.

Thus the matter stood, and Mr. Lyddon held his hand until young Blanchard was abroad again
and seeking work. Then he acted, as shall appear. Before that event, however, incidents befell
Will's household, the first being an unexpected visit from Martin Grimbal; for the love-sick
antiquary nerved himself to this great task a week after his excursion to Cosdon. He desired
to see Will, and was admitted without comment by Mrs. Blanchard. The sufferer, who sat at the
kitchen fire with his arm still in a sling, received Martin somewhat coldly, being ignorant
of the visitor's friendly intentions. Chris was absent, and Will's mother, after hoping that
Mr. Grimbal would not object to discuss his business in the kitchen, departed and left the
men together.

"Sit down," said Will. "Be you come for your brother or yourself?"

"For myself. I want to make my position clear. You must not associate me with John in this
affair. In most things our interests were the same, and he has been a brother in a thousand
to me; but concerning Miss--Mrs. Blanchard--he erred in my opinion--greatly erred--and I told
him so. Our relations are unhappily strained, to my sorrow. I tell you this because I desire
your friendship. It would be good to me to be friends with you and your family. I do not want
to lose your esteem by a misunderstanding."

"That's fair speech, an' I'm glad to hear 'e say it, for it ban't my fault when a man quarrels
wi' me, as anybody will tell 'e. An' mother an' Chris will be glad. God knaws I never felt
no anger 'gainst your brother, till he tried to take my girl away from me. Flesh an' blood
weern't gwaine to suffer that."

"Under the circumstances, and with all the difficulties of your position, I never could blame you."

"Nor Phoebe," said the other warmly. "I won't have wan word said against her. Absolute right
she done. I'm sick an' savage, even now, to think of all she suffered for me. I grits my teeth
by night when it comes to my mind the mort o' grief an' tears an' pain heaped up for her--just
because she loved wan chap an' not another."

"Let the past go and look forward. The future will be happy presently."

"In the long run 't will for sure. Your brother's got all he wants, I reckon, an' I doan't
begrudge him a twinge; but I hope theer ban't no more wheer that comed from, for his awn sake,
'cause if us met unfriendly again, t' other might go awver the bridge, an' break worse 'n his arm."

"No, no, Blanchard, don't talk and think like that. Let the past go. My brother will return
a wiser man, I pray, with his great disappointment dulled."

"A gert disappointment! To be catched out stealin', an' shawed up for a thief!"

"Well, forgive and forget. It's a valuable art--to learn to forget."

"You wait till you 'm faaced wi' such trouble, an' try to forget! But we 'm friends, by your
awn shawm', and I be glad 't is so. Ax mother to step in from front the house, will 'e? I'd
wish her to know how we 'm standin'."

Mrs. Blanchard appeared with her daughter, and subsequent conversation banished a haunting
sense of disloyalty to his brother from Martin's mind. Chris never looked more splendid or
more sweet than in that noon, new come from a walk with Clement Hicks. Martin listened to her
voice, stayed as long as he dared, and then departed with many emotions breaking like a storm
upon his lonely life. He began to long for her with overwhelming desire. He had scarcely looked
at a woman till now, and this brown-eyed girl of twenty, so full of life, so beautiful, set
his very soul helplessly adrift on the sea of love. Her sudden laugh, like Will's, but softer
and more musical, echoed in the man's ear as he returned to his house and, in a ferment, tramped
the empty rooms.

His own requirements had been amply met by three apartments, furnished with sobriety and great
poverty of invention; but now he pictured Chris singing here, tripping about with her bright
eyes and active fingers. Like his brother before him, he fell back upon his money, and in imagination
spent many pounds for one woman's delight. Then from this dream he tumbled back into reality
and the recollection that his goddess must be wooed and won. No man ever yet failed to make
love from ignorance how to begin, but the extent and difficulties of his undertaking weighed
very heavily on Martin Grimbal at this juncture. To win even a measure of her friendship appeared
a task almost hopeless. Nevertheless, through sleepless nights, he nerved himself to the tremendous
attempt. There was not so much of self-consciousness in him, but a great store of self-distrust.
Martin rated himself and his powers of pleasing very low; and unlike the tumultuous and volcanic
methods of John, his genius disposed him to a courtship of most tardy development, most gradual
ripening. To propose while a doubt existed of the answer struck him as a proceeding almost
beyond the bounds of man's audacity. He told himself that time would surely show what chance
or hope there might be, and that opportunity must be left to sneak from the battle at any moment
when ultimate failure became too certainly indicated. In more sanguine moods, however, by moonlight,
or alone on the high moors, greater bravery and determination awoke in him. At such times he
would decide to purchase new clothes and take thought for externals generally. He also planned
some studies in such concerns as pleased women if he could learn what they might be. His first
deliberate if half-hearted attack relied for its effect upon a novel. Books, indeed, are priceless
weapons in the armory of your timid lover; and let but the lady discover a little reciprocity,
develop an unsuspected delight in literature, as often happens, and the most modest volume
shall achieve a practical result as far beyond its intrinsic merit as above the writer's dream.

Martin, then, primed with a work of fiction, prayed that Chris might prove a reader of such
things, and called at Mrs. Blanchard's cottage exactly one fortnight after his former visit.
Chance favoured him to an extent beyond his feeble powers to profit by. Will was out for a
walk, and Mrs. Blanchard being also from home, Martin enjoyed conversation with Chris alone.
He began well enough, while she listened and smiled. Then he lost his courage and lied, and
dragging the novel from his pocket, asserted that he had bought the tale for her brother.

"A story-book! I doubt Will never read no such matter in his life, Mr. Grimbal."

"But get him to try. It's quite a new thing. There's a poaching adventure and so forth--all
very finely done according to the critical journals."

"He'll never sit down to that gert buke."

"You read it then, and tell him if it is good."

"Me! Well, I do read now and again, an' stories tu; but Will wouldn't take my word. Now if
Phoebe was to say 't was braave readin', he'd go for it fast enough."

"I may leave it, at any rate?"

"Leave it, an' thank you kindly."

"How is Will getting on?"

"Quite well again. Awnly riled 'cause Mr. Lyddon lies so low. Clem told us what the miller
can do, but us doan't knaw yet what he will do."

"Perhaps he doesn't know himself," suggested Martin. The name of "Clem," uttered thus carelessly
by her, made him envious. Then, inspired by the circumstance, a request which fairly astounded
the speaker by its valour dropped on his listener's ear.

"By the way, don't call me 'Mr. Grimbal.' I hope you'll let me be 'Martin' in a friendly way
to you all, if you will be so very kind and not mind my asking."

The end of the sentence had its tail between its legs, but he got the words cleanly out, and
his reward was great.

"Why, of course, if you'd rather us did; an' you can call me 'Chris' if you mind to," she said,
laughing. "'T is strange you took sides against your brother somehow to me."

"I haven't--I didn't--except in the matter of Phoebe. He was wrong there, and I told him so,--"

He meant to end the sentence with the other's name, only the word stuck in his throat; but
"Miss Blanchard" he would not say, after her permission, so left a gap.

"He'll not forgive 'e that in a hurry."

"Not readily, but some day, I hope. Now I must really go--wasting your precious time like this;
and I do hope you may read the book."

"That Will may?"

"No--yes--both of you, in fact. And I'll come to know whether you liked it. Might I?"

"Whether Will liked it?"

She nodded and laughed, then the door hid her; while Martin Grimbal went his way treading upon
air. Those labourers whom he met received from him such a "Good evening!" that the small parties,
dropping back on Chagford from their outlying toil, grinned inquiringly, they hardly knew at what.

Meantime, Chris Blanchard reflected, and the laughter faded out of her eyes, leaving them grave
and a little troubled. She was sufficiently familiar with lovers' ways. The bold, the uncouth,
the humble, and timorous were alike within her experience. She watched this kind-faced man
grow hot and cold as he spoke to her, noted the admixture of temerity and fear that divided
his mind and appeared in his words. She had seen his lips tremble and refuse to pronounce her
name; and she rightly judged that he would possibly repeat it aloud to himself more than once
before he slept that night. Chris was no flirt, and now heartily regretted her light and friendly
banter upon the man's departure. "I be a silly fule, an' wouldn't whisper a word of this to
any but Clem," she thought, "for it may be nothing but the nervous way of un, an' such a chap
's a right to seek a sight further 'n me for a wife; an' yet they all 'pear the same, an' act
the same soft sort o' style when they 'm like it." Then she considered that, seeing what friendship
already obtained between Clement and Martin Grimbal, it was strange the latter still went in
ignorance. "Anyways, if I'm not wrong, the sooner he 'm told the better, for he's a proper
fashioned man," she thought.

While Chris was still revolving this matter in her mind, Mrs. Blanchard returned with some news.

"Postmistress stepped out of the office wi' this as I corned down the village," she said. "'T
is from Mrs. Watson, I fancy."

Her daughter brought a light, and the letter was perused. "Uncle 's took bad," Mrs. Blanchard
presently announced; "an' sends to say as he wants me to go along an' help Sarah Watson nurse un."

"Him ill! I never thought he was made of stuff to be ill."

"I must go, whether or no. I'll take the coach to Moreton to-morrow."

Mrs. Blanchard mentally traversed her wardrobe as she drank tea, and had already packed in
anticipation before the meal was ended. Will, on returning, was much perturbed at this bad
news, for since his own marriage Uncle Ford had become a hero among men to him.

"What's amiss she doan't say--Mrs. Watson--but it's more 'n a fleabite else he wouldn't take
his bed. But I hopes I'll have un to rights again in a week or so. 'Mind me to take a bottle
of last summer's Marshmally brew, Chris. Doctors laugh at such physic, but I knaw what I knaw."

"Wonder if't would better him to see me?" mused Will.

"No, no; no call for that. You'll be fit to stand to work by Monday, so mind your business
an' traapse round an' look for it. Theer 's plenty doin' 'pon the land now, an' I want to hear
you' ve got a job 'fore I come home. Husbands must work for two; an' Phoebe'll be on your hands
come less than a couple o' years."

"One year and five months and seven days 't is."

"Very well. You've got to mind a brace of things meantime; to make a vitty home for her by
the sweat of your body, an' to keep your hands off her till she 'm free to come to 'e."

"Big things both, though I ban't afeared of myself afore 'em. I've thought a lot in my time,
an' be allowed to have sense an' spirit for that matter."

"Spirit, ess fay, same as your faither afore you; but not so much sense as us can see wi'out
lightin' cannel."

"Wonder if Uncle Joel be so warm a man as he'd have us think sometimes of an evenin' arter
his hot whiskey an' water?" said Chris.

"Don't 'e count on no come-by-chance from him. He's got money, that I knaw, but ban't gwaine
to pass our way, for he tawld me so in as many words. Sarah Watson will reap what he's sawed;
an' who shall grumble? He 'm a just man, though not of the accepted way o' thinkin'."

"Why for didn't he marry her?" asked Will.

"Caan't tell'e, more'n the dead. Just a whim. I asked her same question, when I was last to
Newton, an' she said 't was to save the price of a licence she reckoned, though in his way
of life he might have got matrimony cheap as any man. But theer 't is. Her 's bin gude as a
wife to un--an' better 'n many--this fifteen year."

"A very kind woman to me while I was biding along with uncle," said Will. "All the same you
should have some of the money."

"I'm well as I be. An' this dead-man-shoe talk's vain an' giddy. I lay he'm long ways from
death, an' the further the better. Now I be gwaine to pack my box 'fore supper."

Mrs. Blanchard withdrew, and Chris, suddenly recollecting it, mentioned Martin Grimbal's visit.
Will laughed and read a page or two of the story-book, then went out of doors to see Clement
Hicks; and his sister, with a spare hour before her while a rabbit roasted, sat near the spit
and occupied her mind with thought.

Will's business related to himself. He was weary of waiting for Mr. Lyddon, and though he had
taken care to let Phoebe know by Chris that his arm was well and strong enough for the worst
that might be found for it to do, no notice was taken of his message, no sign escaped the miller.

All interested persons had their own theories upon this silence. Mrs. Blanchard suspected that
Mr. Lyddon would do nothing at all, and Will readily accepted this belief; but he found it
impossible to wait with patience for its verification. This indeed was the harder to him because
Clement Hicks predicted a different issue and foretold an action of most malignant sort on
the miller's part. What ground existed for attributing any such deed to Mr. Lyddon was not
manifest, but the bee-keeper stuck to it that Will's father-in-law would only wait until he
was in good employment and then proceed to his confusion.

This conviction he now repeated.

"He's going to make you smart before he's done with you, if human nature's a factor to rely
upon. It's clear to me."

"I doan't think so ill of un. An' yet I ban't wishful to leave it to chance. You, an' you awnly,
knaw what lies hid in the past behind me. The question is, should I take that into account
now, or go ahead as if it never had failed out?"

"Let it alone, as it has let you alone. Never rake it up again, and forget it if you can. That's
my advice to you. Forget you ever--"

"Hush!" said Will. "I'd rather not hear the word, even 'pon your lips."

They then discussed the main matter from the opposite vantage-grounds of minds remote in every
particular; but no promising procedure suggested itself to either man, and it was not until
upon his homeward way that Will, unaided, arrived at an obvious and very simple conclusion.
With some glee he welcomed this idea.

"I'll just wait till Monday night," he said to himself, "an' then I'll step right down to Miller,
an' ax un what's in the wind, an' if I can help his hand. Then he must speak if he's a man."

CHAPTER XIII

THE MILLER'S OFFER

Will, followed his determination and proceeded to Monks Barton on the following Monday evening,
at an hour when he knew that Mr. Lyddon would have finished supper and be occupied about a
pipe or a game of cards with Mr. Blee. The old men occasionally passed an hour at "oaks" or
"cribbage" before retiring, but on this occasion they were engaged in conversation, and both
looked up with some surprise when Blanchard appeared.

"You--you here again!" said the miller, and his mouth remained slightly open after the words.

"You 'm allus setting sober hair on end--blessed if you ain't!" was Billy's comment.

Will, for his part, made no introductory speeches, but went straight to the point.

"Theer's my arm," he said, thrusting it out before him. "'T is mended so neat that Doctor Parsons
says no Lunnon bone-setter could have done it better. So I've comed just to say theer's no
call for longer waitin'. 'T was a sportsmanlike thing in you, Miller Lyddon, to bide same as
you did; and now, if you'd set the law movin' an' get the job out o' hand, I'd thank you kindly.
You see, if they put me in for two year, 't will leave mighty li'l time to get a home ready
for Phoebe against the day she comes of age."

"You needn't be at any trouble about that."

"But I shall be. Do 'e think my wife's gwaine to be any differ'nt to lesser folks? A home she'll
have, an' a braave, vitty home, tu, though I've got to sweat blood for it. So if you'd take
your bite so soon as convenient, you'd sarve me."

"I doan't say you 'm axin' anything onreasonable," said Mr. Lyddon, thoughtfully. "An' what
might you think o'doin, when you comes out o' prison?"

"First gude work that offers."

"Maybe you doan't kuaw that chaps whose last job was on the treadmill finds it uncommon hard
to get another?"

"Depends what they was theer for, I should reckon, Miller"

"Not a bit of it. Gaol-birds is all feathered alike inside clink, an' honest men feathers 'em
all alike when they come out," declared Will's father-in-law.

"A sheer Cain, as no man will touch by the hand--that's what you'll be," added Billy, without
apparent regret.

"If that's so," said Will, very calmly, "you'd best to think twice 'fore you sends me. I've
done a high-handed deed, bein' forced into the same by happenings here when I went off last
summer; but 't is auld history now. I'd like to be a credit to 'e some time, not a misery for
all time. Why not--?" He was going to suggest a course of action more favourable to himself
than that promised; but it struck him suddenly that any attitude other than the one in which
he had come savoured of snivelling for mercy. So he stopped, left a break of silence, and proceeded
with less earnestness in his voice.

"You've had a matter of eight weeks to decide in, so I thought I might ax'e, man to man, what's
gwaine to be done."

"I have decided," said the miller coldly; "I decided a week ago."

Billy started and his blue eyes blinked inquiringly. He sniffed his surprise and said "Well!"
under his breath.

"Ess, 't is so, I didn't tell 'e, Blee, 'cause I reckoned you'd try an' turn me from my purpose,
which wasn't to be done."

"Never--not me. I'm allus in flat agreement with 'e, same as any wise man finds hisself all times."

"Well, doan't 'e take it ill, me keepin' it to myself."

"No, no--awnly seem' how--"

"If it 's all the same," interrupted Will, "I'd like to knaw what you 'm gwaine for to do."

"I'm gwaine to do nort, Will Blanchard--nort at all. God He knaws you 've wronged me, an' more
'n me, an' her--Phoebe--worst of all; but I'll lift no hand ag'in' you. Bide free an' go forrard
your awn way--"

"To the Dowl!" concluded Billy.

There was a silence, then Will spoke with some emotion.

"You 'm a big, just man, Miller Lyddon; an' if theer was anything could make me sorry for the
past--which theer ban't--'t would be to knaw you've forgived me."

"He ain't done no such thing!" burst out Mr. Blee. "Tellin' 'e to go to the Dowl ban't forgivin'
of 'e!"

"That was your word," answered Will hotly, "an' if you didn't open your ugly mouth so wide,
an' shaw such a 'mazing poor crop o' teeth same time, me an' Miller might come to onderstanding.
I be here to see him, not you."

"Gar! you 'm a beast of a bwoy, looked at anyhow, an' I wouldn't have no dealin's with 'e for
money," snorted the old man.

"Theer we'll leave it then, Blanchard," said Mr. Lyddon, as Will turned his back upon the last
speaker without answering him. "Go your way an' try to be a better man; but doan't ax me to
forget what 's passed--no, nor forgive it, not yet. I'll come to a Christian sight of it some
day, God willin'; but it 's all I can say that I bear you no ill-will."

"An' I'm beholden enough for that. You wait an' keep your eye on me. I'll shaw you what's in
me yet. I'll surprise 'e, I promise. Nobody in these paarts 'cept mother, knaws what 's in
me. But, wi'out boastful words, I'll prove it. Because, Miller, I may assure 'e I'm a man as
have thought a lot in my time 'bout things in general."

"Ess, you'm a deep thinker, I doan't doubt. Now best to go; an', mind, no dealins wi' Phoebe,
for that I won't stand."

"I've thought that out, tu. I'll give 'e my word of honour 'pon that."

"Best to seek work t'other side the Moor, if you ax me. Then you'll be out the way."

"As to that, I'd guessed maybe Martin Grimbal, as have proved a gert friend to me an' be quite
o' my way o' thinking, might offer garden work while I looked round. Theer ban't a spark o'
pride in me--tu much sense, I hope, for that."

The miller sighed.

"You've done a far-reachin' thing, as hits a man from all sorts o' plaaces, like the echo in
Teign Valley. I caan't see no end to it yet."

"Martin Grimbal's took on Wat Widdicombe, so you needn't fule yourself he'll give 'e work,"
snapped Mr. Blee.

"Well, theer be others."

And then that sudden smile, half sly, half sweet, leapt to Will's eyes and brightened all his
grave face, as the sun gladdens a grey sky after rain.

"Look now, Miller Lyddon, why for shouldn't you, the biggest man to Chagford, give me a bit
of work? I ban't no caddlin'[5] chap, an' for you--by God, I'd dig a mountain flat if you axed me!"

[5] Caddling = loafing, idling.

"Well, I be gormed!" gasped Billy. It was a condition, though whether physical or mental he
only knew, to which Will reduced Mr. Blee upon every occasion of their meeting.

"You hold your jaw an' let me talk to Mr. Lyddon. 'Tis like this, come to look at it: who should
work for 'e same as what I would? Who should think for my wife's faither wi' more of his heart
than me? I'd glory to do a bit of work for 'e--aye, I would so, high or low; an' do it in a
way to make you rub your eyes!"

Billy saw the first-formed negative die still-born on his master's lips. He began to cry out
volubly that Monks Barton was over-manned, and that scandal would blast every opening bud on
the farm if such a thing happened. Will glared at him, and in another moment Mr. Blee might
have suffered physically had not the miller lifted his hand and bid both be silent.

For a full minute no man spoke, while in Mr. Lyddon's mind proceeded a strange battle of ideas.
Will's audacity awakened less resentment than might have been foreseen. The man had bent before
the shock of his daughter's secret marriage and was now returning to his customary mental condition.
Any great altitude of love or extremity of hate was beyond Mr. Lyddon's calibre. Life slipped
away and left his forehead smooth. Sorrow brought no great scars, joy no particular exaltation.
This temperament he had transmitted to Phoebe; and now she came into his mind and largely influenced
him. A dozen times he opened his mind to say "No," but did not say it. Personal amiability
could hardly have overcome natural dislike of Blanchard at such a moment, but the unexpected
usually happens when weak natures are called upon to make sudden decisions; and though such
may change their resolve again and again at a later date and before new aspects of the problem,
their first hasty determination will often be the last another had predicted from them.

A very curious result accrued from Mr. Lyddon's mental conflict, and it was reached by an accidental
train of thought. He told himself that his conclusion was generous to the extreme of the Christian
ideal; he assured himself that few men so placed had ever before acted with such notable magnanimity;
but under this repeated mental asseveration there spoke another voice which he stifled to the
best of his power. The utterance of this monitor may best be judged from what followed.

"If I gave you work you'd stand to it, Will Blanchard?" he asked at length.

"Try me!"

"Whatsoever it might be?"

"Try me. Ban't for me to choose."

"I will, then. Come to-morrow by five, an' Billy shall show 'e what's to do."

It would be difficult to say which, of those who heard the miller's resolve received it with
most astonishment. Will's voice was almost tremulous.

"You'll never be sorry, never. I couldn't have hoped such a thing. Caan't think how I comed
to ax it. An' yet--but I'll buckle to anything and everything, so help me. I'll think for 'e
an' labour for 'e as no hireling that was ever born could, I will. An' you've done a big, grand-fashion
thing, an' I'm yours, body an' bones, for it; an' you'll never regret it."

The young man was really moved by an issue so unexpected. He had uttered his suggestion on
the spur of the moment, as he uttered most things, and such a reception argued a greatness
of heart and generosity of spirit quite unparalleled in his experience. So he departed wishing
all good on Mr. Lyddon and meaning all good with his whole soul and strength.

When he had gone the miller spoke; but contrary to custom, he did not look into Mr. Blee's
face while so doing.

"You'm astonished, Billy," he said, "an' so be I, come to think of it. But I'm gettin' tu auld
to fret my life away with vain strife. I be gwaine to prove un. He'd stand to anything, eh?
'Twas his word."

"An' well he might."

"Can 'e picture Blanchard cleaning out the pigs' house?"

"No fay!"

"Or worse?"

"Ah!"

They consulted, and it presently appeared that Mr. Lyddon deliberately designed to set Will
about the most degrading task the farm could furnish.

"'Twill sting the very life of un!" said Billy gleefully, and he proceeded to arrange an extremely
trying programme for Will Blanchard.

"Doan't think any small spite leads me to this way of dealing with un," explained Mr. Lyddon,
who knew right well that it was so. "But 'tis to probe the stuff he's made of. Nothing should
be tu hard for un arter what he've done, eh?"

"You'm right. 'Tis true wisdom to chastise the man this way if us can, an' shake his wicked pride."

Billy's genius lent itself most happily to this scheme. He applauded the miller's resolution
until his master himself began to believe that the idea was not unjust; he ranged airily, like
a blue-fly, from one agglomeration of ordure to another; and he finally suggested a task, not
necessary to dwell on, but which reached the utmost height or depth of originality in connection
with such a subject. Mr. Lyddon laboured under some shadow of doubt, but he quickly agreed
when his man reminded him of the past course of events.

"'Tis nothin', when all's said. Who'd doubt if he'd got to choose between that or two year
in gaol? He'm lucky, and I'll tell un so come the marnin'."

Thus matters were left, and the miller retired in some secret shame, for he had planned an
act which, if great in the world's eye, had yet a dark side from his own inner view of it;
but Mr. Blee suffered no pang from conscience upon the question. He heartily disliked Blanchard,
and he contemplated the morrow with keen satisfaction. If his sharp tongue had power to deepen
the wound awaiting Will's self-respect, that power would certainly be exercised.

Meantime the youth himself passed homeward in a glow of admiration for Mr. Lyddon.

"I'd lay down my life smilin' for un," he told Chris, who was astounded at his news. "I'll
think for un, an' act for un, till he'll feel I'm his very right hand. An' if I doan't put
a spoke in yellow Billy's wheel, call me a fule. Snarling auld swine! But Miller! Theer's gude
workin' religion in that man; he'm a shining light for sartain."

They talked late upon this wondrous turn of fortune, then Will recollected his mother and nothing
would serve but that he wrote instantly to tell her of the news.

"It'll cheer up uncle, tu, I lay," he said.

"A letter comed while you was out," answered Chris; "he'm holding his awn, but 'tis doubtful
yet how things be gwaine to fare in the upshot."

"Be it as 'twill, mother can do more 'n any other living woman could for un," declared Will.

CHAPTER XIV

LOGIC

As Mr. Blee looked out upon a grey morning, the sallows leaping from silver to gold, from bud
to blossom, scattered brightness through the dawn, and the lemon catkins of the hazel, the
russet tassels of alders, brought light along the river, warmth into the world. A bell beat
five from Chagford Church tower, and the notes came drowsily through morning mists. Then quick
steps followed on the last stroke of the hour and Will stood by Billy's side in Monks Barton
farmyard. The old man raised his eyes from contemplation of a spade and barrow, bid Blanchard
"Good morning" with simulated heartiness, and led the way to work, while Will followed, bringing
the tools. They passed into a shrubbery of syringa bushes twenty yards distant, and the younger
man, whose humour had been exceedingly amiable until that moment, now flushed to his eyes before
the spectacle of his labour.

"Do 'e mean that Miller's got nothin' for me to do but this?"

"Plenty, plenty, I 'sure 'e; but that ban't your business, be it? Theer's the work, an' I'd
rather 'twas yourn than mine. Light your pipe an' go ahead. Not a purty job, more 'tis; but
beggars mustn't be choosers in this hard world."

Billy bolted after these remarks. He heard a growl behind him, but did not look round. Half
an hour later, he crept back again by a circuitous route, watched Will awhile unseen, then
stole grinning away to milk the cows.

The young man, honestly thunderstruck at the task planned for him, judged that thinking would
not mend matters, and so began to work quickly without stopping to reflect. But his thoughts
could not be controlled, any more than his disposition changed. A growing consciousness of
deep and deliberate insult surged up in him. The more he brooded the slower he worked, and
finally anger mastered determination. He flung down his spade, saluted a red sunrise with the
worst language at his command, and strode down to the river. Here, for some time and until
blue smoke began to climb from the kitchen chimney of the farm, Will paced about; then with
a remarkable effort returned to his task. He actually started again, and might have carried
the matter to completion; but an evil demon was abroad, and Billy, spying the young man at
work anew, reappeared.

"You'm makin' poor speed, my son," he said, viewing the other's progress with affected displeasure.

It proved enough, for Will's smouldering fires were ready to leap at any fuel.

"Go to blue, blazing hell!" he cried. "You'm at the bottom of this business, I'll lay a pound.
Get out o' my sight, you hookem-snivey auld devil, or I'll rub your dirty ginger poll in it,
sure's death!"

"My stars! theer's crooked words! Do 'e try an' keep tighter hand on your temper, Blanchard.
A man should knaw hisself anyways 'fore he has the damn fulishness to take a wife. An' if you
ax me--"

Mr. Blee's remarks were here brutally arrested, for the contents of Will's spade saluted his
furrowed features, and quite obliterated the old man. He fled roaring, and the other flung
his spade twenty yards away, overturned his wheelbarrow, and again strode to the river. He
was fairly bubbling and boiling now, nor did the business of cleaning gaiters and boots, arms
and hands, restore him to peace. A black pig gazed upon him and grunted as he came up from
the water. It seemed to him a reincarnation of Billy, and he kicked it hard. It fled screaming
and limping, while Will, his rage at full flood, proceeded through the farmyard on his way
home. But here, by unhappy chance, stood Mr. Lyddon watching his daughter feed the fowls. Her
husband ran full upon Phoebe, and she blushed in a great wave of joy until the black scowl
upon his face told her that something was amiss. His evident anger made her start, and the
involuntary action upset her bowl of grain. For a moment she stood motionless, looking upon
him in fear, while at her feet fought and struggled a cloud of feathered things around the
yellow corn.

"If you've done your job, Will, may'st come and shaake Phoebe by the hand," said Mr. Lyddon
nervously, while he pretended not to notice the other's passion.

"I haven't done it; and if I had, is a scavenger's hand fit to touch hers?" thundered Blanchard.
"I thought you was a man to swear by, and follow through thick an' thin," he continued, "but
you ban't. You'm a mean, ill-minded sawl, as would trample on your awn flesh an' blood, if
you got the chance. Do your awn dirty work. Who be I that you should call on me to wallow in
filth to please your sour spite?"

"You hear him, you hear him!" cried out the miller, now angry enough himself. "That's how I'm
sarved for returnin' gude to his evil. I've treated un as no man else on God's airth would
have done; and this is what I gets. He's mad, an' that's to speak kind of the wretch!"

The young wife could only look helplessly from one to the other. That morning had dawned very
brightly for her. A rumour of what was to happen reached her on rising, but the short-lived
hope was quickly shattered, and though she had not seen him since their wedding-day, Phoebe
was stung into bitterness against Will at this juncture. She knew nothing of particulars, but
saw him now pouring harsh reproaches on her father, and paying the miller's unexampled generosity
with hard and cruel words. So she spoke to her husband.

"Oh, Will, Will, to say such things! Do 'e love me no better 'n that? To slight dear faither
arter all he's forgiven!"

"If you think I'm wrong, say it, Phoebe," he answered shortly. "If you'm against me, tu--"

"'Against you!' How can you speak so?"

"No matter what I say. Be you on his side or mine? 'Cause I've a right to knaw."

"Caan't 'e see 'twas faither's gert, braave, generous thought to give 'e work, an' shaw a lesson
of gudeness? An' then we meet again--"

"Ess fay--happy meetin' for wife an' husband, me up to the eyes in--Theer, any fule can see
'twas done a purpose to shame me."

"You're a fule to say it! 'Tis your silly pride's gwaine to ruin all your life, an' mine, tu.
Who's to help you if you've allus got the black monkey on your shoulder like this here?"

"You'm a overbearin', headstrong madman," summed up the miller, still white with wrath; "an'
I've done with 'e now for all time. You've had your chance an' thrawed it away."

"He put this on me because I was poor an' without work."

"He didn't," cried the girl, whose emotions for a moment took her clean from Will to her father.
"He never dreamed o' doin' any such thing. He couldn't insult a beggar-man; an' you knaw it.
'Tis all your ugly, wicked temper!"

"Then I'll take myself off, an' my temper, tu," said Will, and prepared to do so; while Mr.
Lyddon listened to husband and wife, and his last hope for the future dwindled and died, as
he heard them quarrel with high voices. His daughter clung to him and supported his action,
though what it had been she did not know.

"Caan't 'e see you're breakin' faither's heart all awver again just as 'twas mendin'?" she
said. "Caan't 'e sing smaller, if 'tis awnly for thought of me? Doan't, for God's love, fling
away like this."

"I met un man to man, an' did his will with a gude thankful heart, an' comed in the dawn to
faace a job as--"

"'Tweren't the job, an' you knaw it," broke in Mr. Lyddon. "I wanted to prove 'e an' all your
fine promises; an' now I knaw their worth, an' your worth. An' I curse the day ever my darter
was born in the world, when I think she'm your wife, an' no law can break it."

He turned and went into the house, and Phoebe stood alone with her husband.

"Theer!" cried Will. "You've heard un. That was in his heart when he spoke me so fair. An'
if you think like he do, say it. Lard knaws I doan't want 'e no more, if you doan't want me!"

"Will! How can you! An' us not met since our marriage-day. But you'm cruel, cruel to poor faither."

"Say so, an' think so; an' b'lieve all they tell 'e 'gainst your lawful husband; an' gude-bye.
If you'm so poor-spirited as to see your man do thicky work, you choosed wrong. Not that 'tis
any gert odds. Stop along wi' your faither as you loves so much better 'n me. An' doan't you
fear I'll ever cross his threshold again to anger un, for I'd rather blaw my brains out than
do it."

He shook and stuttered with passion; his eyes glowed, his lips changed from their natural colour
to a leaden blue. He groped for the gate when he reached it, and passed quickly out, heedless
of Phoebe's sorrowful cry to him. He heard her light step following and only hastened his speed
for answer. Then, hurrying from her, a wave of change suddenly flowed upon his furious mind,
and he began to be very sorry. Presently he stopped and turned, but she had stayed her progress
by now, and for a moment's space stood and watched him, bathed in tears. At the moment when
he hesitated and looked back, however, his wife herself had turned away and moved homewards.
Had she been standing in one place, Will's purposes would perchance have faded to air, and
his arm been round her in a moment; but now he only saw Phoebe retreating slowly to Monks Barton;
and he let her go.

Blanchard went home to breakfast, and though Chris discovered that something was amiss, she
knew him too well to ask any questions. He ate in silence, the past storm still heaving in
a ground-swell through his mind. That his wife should have stood up against him was a sore
thought. It bewildered the youth utterly, and that she might be ignorant of all details did
not occur to him. Presently he told his wrongs to Chris, and grew very hot again in the recital.
She sympathised deeply, held him right to be angry, and grew angry herself.

"He 'm daft," she said, "an' I'd think harder of him than I do, but that he's led by the nose.
'Twas that auld weasel, Billy Blee, gived him the wink to set you on a task he knawed you'd
never carry through."

"Theer's truth in that," said Will; then he recollected his last meeting with the miller's
man, and suddenly roared with laughter.

"'Struth! What a picter he was! He agged an' agged at me till I got fair mad, an'--well, I
spiled his meal, I do b'lieve."

His merriment died away slowly in a series of long-drawn chuckles. Then he lighted his pipe,
watched Chris cleaning the cups and plates, and grew glum again.

"'Twas axin' me--a penniless chap; that was the devil of it. If I'd been a moneyed man wi'out
compulsion to work, then I'd have been free to say 'No,' an' no harm done. De'e follow?"

"I'm thankful you done as you did. But wheer shall 'e turn now?"

"Doan't knaw. I'll lay I'll soon find work."

"Theer's some of the upland farms might be wanting harrowin' an' seed plantin' done."

"Who's to Newtake, Gran'faither Ford's auld plaace, I wonder?"

"'Tis empty. The last folks left 'fore you went away. Couldn't squeeze bare life out of it.
That's the fourth party as have tried an' failed."

"Yet gran'faither done all right."

"He was a wonnerful man of business, an' lived on a straw a day, as mother says. But the rest--they
come an' go an' just bury gude money theer to no better purpose than the gawld at a rainbow foot."

"Well, I'll go up in the village an' look around before Miller's got time to say any word against
me. He'll spoil my market if he can, I knaw."

"He'd never dare!"

"I'd have taken my oath he wouldn't essterday. Now I think differ'nt. He never meant friendship;
he awnly wanted for me to smart. Clem Hicks was right."

"Theer's Mr. Grimbal might give 'e work, I think. Go an' ax un, an' tell un I sent 'e."

A moment later Chris was sorry she had made this remark.

"What be talkin' 'bout?" Will asked bluntly. "Tell un you sent me?"

"Martin wants to be friends."

"'Martin,' is it?"

"He axed me to call un so."

"Do he knaw you'm tokened to Clem?"

"Caan't say. It almost 'peared as if he didn't last time he called."

"Then sooner he do the better. Axed you to call un 'Martin'!"

He stopped and mused, then spoke again.

"Our love-makin's a poor business, sure enough. I've got what I wanted an', arter this marnin',
could 'most find it in me to wish my cake was dough again; an' you--you ain't got what you
want, an' ban't no gert sign you will, for Clem's the weakest hand at turnin' a penny ever I met."

"I'll wait for un, whether or no," said Chris, fiercely. "I'll wait, if need be, till we'm
both tottling auld mumpheads!"

"Ess; an' when Martin Grimbal knaws that is so, 'twill be time enough to ax un for work, I
dare say,--not sooner. Better he should give Clem work than me. I'd thought of him myself,
for that matter."

"I've axed Clem to ax un long ago, but he won't."

"I'll go and see Clem right away. 'Tis funny he never let the man knaw 'bout you. Should have
been the first thing he tawld un."

"Perhaps he thought 'twas so far off that--"

"Doan't care what he thought. Weern't plain dealin' to bide quiet about that, an' I shall tell
un so."

"Well, doan't 'e quarrel with Clem. He'm 'bout the awnly friend you've got left now."

"I've got mother an' you. I'm all right. I can see as straight as any man, an' all my brain-work
in the past ban't gwaine to be wasted 'cause wan auld miller fellow happens to put a mean trick
on me. I'm above caring. I just goes along and remembers that people has their failings."

"We must make allowance for other folk."

"So us must; an' I be allus doin' it; so why the hell doan't they make allowance for me? That's
why I boil awver now an' again--damn it! I gets nought but kicks for my halfpence--allus have;
an' I won't stand it from mortal man much longer!"

Chris kept her face, for Will's views on conduct and man's whole duty to man were no new thing.

"Us must keep patient, Will, 'specially with the auld."

"I be patient. It 'mazes me, looking back, to see what I have suffered in my time. But a man's
a man, not a post or a holy angel. Us wouldn't hear such a deal about angels' tempers either
if they'd got to faace all us have."

"That's profanity an' wickedness."

"'Tis truth. Any fule can be a saint inside heaven; an' them that was born theer and have flown
'bout theer all theer time, like birds in a wood, did ought to be even-tempered. What's to
cross'em?"

"You shouldn't say such things!"

Suddenly a light came into his eyes.

"I doan't envy 'em anyway. Think what it must be never to have no mother to love 'e! They 'm
poor, motherless twoads, for all their gold crowns an' purple wings."

"Will! whatever will 'e say next? Best go to Clem. An' forget what I spoke 'bout Martin Grimbal
an' work. You was wiser'n me in that."

"I s'pose so. If a man ban't wiser 'n his sister, he's like to have poor speed in life," said Will.

Then he departed, but the events of that day were still very far from an end, and despite the
warning of Chris, her brother soon stood on the verge of another quarrel. It needed little
to wake fresh storms in his breast and he criticised Clement's reticence on the subject of
his engagement in so dictatorial and hectoring a manner that the elder man quickly became incensed.
They wrangled for half an hour, Hicks in satirical humour, Will loud with assurances that he
would have no underhand dealings where any member of his family was concerned. Clement presently
watched the other tramp off, and in his mind was a dim thought. Could Blanchard forget the
past so quickly? Did he recollect that he, Clement Hicks, shared knowledge of it? "He's a fool,
whichever way you look at him," thought the poet; "but hardly such a fool as to forget that,
or risk angering me of all men."

Later in the day Will called at a tap-room, drank half a pint of beer, and detailed his injuries
for the benefit of those in the bar. He asked what man amongst them, situated as he had been,
had acted otherwise; and a few, caring not a straw either way, declared he had showed good
pluck and was to be commended; But the bulky Mr. Chapple--he who assisted Billy Blee in wassailing
Miller Lyddon's apple-trees--stoutly criticised Will, and told him that his conduct was much
to blame. The younger argued against this decision and explained, with the most luminous diction
at his command, that 'twas in the offering of such a task to a penniless man its sting and
offence appeared.

"He knawed I was at low ebb an' not able to pick an' choose. So he gives me a starvin' man's
job. If I'd been in easy circumstances an' able to say 'Yes' or 'No' at choice, I'd never have
blamed un."

"Nonsense and stuff!" declared Mr. Chapple. "Theer's not a shadow of shame in it."

"You'm Miller's friend, of coourse," said Will.

"'Tis so plain as a pike, I think!" squeaked a hare-lipped young man of weak intellect who
was also present. "Blanchard be right for sartain."

"Theer! If soft Gurney sees my drift it must be pretty plain," said Will, in triumph.

"But as 'tis awnly him that does, lad," commented Mr. Chapple, drily, "caan't say you've got
any call to be better pleased. Go you back an' do the job, like a wise man."

"I'd clear the peat out o' Cranmere Pool sooner!" said Will.

And he turned homewards again, wretched enough, yet fiercely prodding his temper when it flagged,
and telling himself repeatedly that he had acted as became a man of spirit and of judgment.
Then, upon a day sufficiently leaden and dreary until that moment, burst forth sudden splendours,
and Will's life, from a standpoint of extreme sobriety in time, instantly passed to rare brightness.
Between the spot on the highway where Chris met him and his arrival at home, the youth enjoyed
half a lifetime of glorious hopes and ambitions; but a cloud indeed shadowed all this overwhelming
joy in that the event responsible for his change of fortune was itself sad.

While yet twenty yards from her brother Chris cried the news to him.

"He's dead--Uncle--he went quite sudden at the end; an' he'm to lie to Chagford wi' gran'faither
an' gran'mother."

"Dead! My God! An' I never seed un more! The best friend to me ever I had--leastways I thought
so till this marnin'."

"You may think so still."

"Ess, so I do. A kind man inside his skin. I knawed un better'n most people--an' he meant well
when he married me, out of pure love to us both."

"He's left nobody no money but Mrs. Watson and you."

"If 'tis five pound, 'tis welcome to-day; an' if 'tis five shillin', I'll thank un an' spend
it 'pon a ring to wear for un. He was a gude auld blid, an' I'm sorry he's gone."

"Will, Uncle's left 'e a thousand pound!"

"What! You'm jokin'."

"Solemn truth. 'Tis in mother's letter."

A rush of joy lighted up the young man's face. He said not a word; then his eyes grew moist.

"To think as he could have loved a daft fule like me so well as that! Me--that never done nothin'--no,
not so much as to catch a dish of trout for un, now an' again, when he was here."

"You couldn't, bein' water-keeper."

"What matter for that? I ought to have poached for un, seein' the manner of man he was."

He kept silence for a while, then burst out--

"I'll buy the braavest marble stone can be cut. Nobody shall do it but me, wi' doves or anchors
or some such thing on it, to make it a fine sight so long as the world goes on."

"Theer's plenty room 'pon the auld slate, for that matter," said Chris.

"Damn the auld slate! The man shall have white marble carvings, I tell 'e, if I've got to spend
half the money buying 'em. He b'lieved in me; he knawed I'd come to gude; an' I'm grateful to un."

During the evening Will was unusually silent and much busied with thought. He knew little of
the value of money, and a thousand pounds to his mind represented possibilities wholly beyond
the real power of that sum to achieve. Chris presently visited the vicarage, and after their
supper, brother and sister sat late and discussed the days to come. When the girl retired,
Will's thoughts for a moment concerned themselves with the immediate past rather than the future;
and then it was that he caught himself blankly before his own argument of the morning. To him
the force of the contention, now that his position was magically changed, appeared strong as
before. A little sophistry had doubtless extricated him from this dilemma, but his nature was
innocent of it, and his face grew longer as the conclusion confronting him became more clear.
From his own logic--a mysterious abstraction, doubtless--he found it difficult to escape without
loss of self-respect. He still held that the deed, impossible to him as a pauper, might be
performed without sacrifice of dignity or importance by a man of his present fortune. So the
muddle-headed youth saw his duty straight ahead of him; and he regretted it heartily, but did
not attempt to escape from it.

Ten minutes later, in his working clothes, he set out to Monks Barton, carrying an old horn
lantern that had swung behind his father's caravan twenty years before. At the farm all lights
were out save one in the kitchen; but Will went about his business as silently as possible,
and presently found the spade where he had flung it, the barrow where he had overthrown it
in the morning. So he set to work, his pipe under his nose, his thoughts afar off in a golden
paradise built of Uncle Ford's sovereigns.

Billy Blee, whose attic window faced out upon the northern side of the farm, had gone to bed,
but he was still awake, and the grunt of a wheelbarrow quickly roused him. Gazing into the
night he guessed what was doing, dragged on his trousers, and hurried down-stairs to his master.

The miller sat with his head on his hand. His pipe was out and the "night-cap" Phoebe had mixed
for him long ago, remained untasted.

"Guy Fawkes an 'angels! here's a thing! If that Jack-o'-lantern of a bwoy ban't back again.
He'm delvin' theer, for all the world like a hobgoblin demon, red as blood in the flicker of
the light. I fancied't was the Dowl hisself. But 't is Blanchard, sure. Theer's some dark thought
under it, I'll lay, or else he wants to come around 'e again."

His master doubted not that Billy was dreaming, but he went aloft and looked to convince himself.
In silence and darkness they watched Will at work. Then Mr. Blee asked a question as the miller
turned to go.

"What in thunder do it mean?"

"God knaws, I doan't. The man or bwoy, or whatever you call un, beats me. I ban't built to
tackle such a piece as him. He's took a year off my life to-day. Go to your bed, Billy, an'
let un bide."

"Gormed if I wouldn't like to slip down an' scat un ower the head for what he done to me this
marnin'. Such an auld man as me, tu! weak in the hams this ten year."

"But strong in the speech. Maybe you pricked him with a bitter word, an'--theer, theer, if
I ban't standin' up for the chap now! Yet if I've wished un dead wance, I have fifty times
since I first heard tell of un. Get to bed. I s'pose us'll knaw his drift come to-morrow."

Mr. Lyddon and Billy retired, and both slept ere Will Blanchard's work was done. Upon its completion
he sought the cold nocturnal waters of the river, and then did a thing he had planned an hour
before. Entering the farmyard, he flung a small stone at Phoebe's window in the thatch, then
another. But the first had roused his wife, for she lay above in wakefulness and sorrow. She
peeped out, saw Blanchard, knew him in the lantern light, and opened the window.

"Will, my awn Will!" she said, with a throbbing voice.

"Ess fay, lovey! I knawed you'd sleep sweeter for hearin' tell I've done the work."

"Done it?"

"Truth."

"It was a cruel, wicked shame; an' the blame's Billy Blee's, an' I've cried my eyes out since
I heard what they set you to do; an' I've said what I thought; an' I'm sorry to bitterness
about this marnin', dear Will."

"'T is all wan now. I've comed into a mort of money, my Uncle Ford bein' suddenly dead."

"Oh, Will, I could a'most jump out the window!"

"'T would be easier for me to come up-long."

"No, no; not for the world, Will!"

"Why for not? An' you that lovely, twinklin' in your white gownd, an' me your lawful husband,
an' a man o' money! Damned if I ain't got a mind to climb up by the pear-tree!"

"You mustn't, you mustn't! Go away, dear, sweet Will. An' I'm so thankful you've forgiven me
for being so wicked, dear heart."

"Everybody'll ax to be forgiven now, I reckon; but you--theer ban't nothin' to forgive you
for. You can tell your faither I've forgived un to-morrow, an' tell un I'm rich, tu. 'T will
ease his mind. Theer, an' theer, an theer!"

Will kissed his hand thrice, then vanished, and his wife shut her window and, kneeling, prayed
out thankful prayers.

As her husband crossed Rushford Bridge, his thought sped backward through the storm and sunshine
of past events. But chiefly he remembered the struggle with John Grimbal and its sequel. For
a moment he glanced below into the dark water.

"'T is awver an' past, awver an' past," he said to himself. "I be at the tail of all my troubles
now, for theer's nought gude money an' gude sense caan't do between 'em."

BOOK II

HIS ENTERPRISE

CHAPTER I

SPRINGTIME

Nature, waking at the song of woodland birds to find herself naked, fashioned with flying fingers
such a robe of young green and amber, hyacinth and pearl as only she can weave or wear. A scent
of the season rose from multitudinous "buds, and bells, and stars without a name"; while the
little world of Devon, vale and forest, upland and heathery waste, rejoiced in the new life,
as it rang and rippled with music and colour even to the granite thrones of the Moor. Down
by the margin of Teign, where she murmured through a vale of wakening leaves and reflected
asphodels bending above her brink, the valley was born again in a very pageant of golden green
that dappled all the grey woods, clothed branch and bough anew, ran flower-footed over the
meadow, hid nests of happy birds in every dell and dingle, and spread luxuriant life above
the ruin of the year that was gone. A song of hope filled each fair noon; no wasted energy,
no unfulfilled intent as yet saddened the eye; no stunted, ruined nursling of Nature yet spoke
unsuccess; no canker-bitten bud marked the cold finger of failure; for in that first rush of
life all the earthborn host had set forth, if not equal, at least together. The primroses twinkled
true on downy coral stems and the stars of anemone, celandine, and daisy opened perfect. Countless
consummate, lustrous things were leaping, mingling, and uncurling, aloft and below, in the
mazes of the wood, at the margins of the water. Verdant spears and blades expanded; fair fans
opened and tendrils twined; simultaneous showers of heart-shaped, arrow-shaped, flame-shaped
foliage, all pure emerald and translucent beryl, made opulent outpouring of that new life which
now pulsed through the Mother's million veins. Diaphanous mist wreaths and tender showers wooed
the Spring; under silver gauze of vernal rain rang wild rapture of thrushes, laughter of woodpeckers,
chime and chatter of jackdaws from the rock, secret crooning of the cushat in the pines. From
dawn till dusk the sweet air was winnowed by busy wings; from dawn till dusk the hum and murmur
of life ceased not. Infinite possibility, infinite promise, marked the time; and man shared
a great new hope with the beasts and birds, and wild violet of the wood. Blood and sap raced
gloriously together, while a chorus of conscious and unconscious creation sang the anthem of
the Spring in solemn strophe and antistrophe.

As life's litany rises once again, and before the thunder of that music rolling from the valleys
to the hills, human reason yearly hesitates for a moment, while hope cries out anew above the
frosty lessons of experience. For a brief hour the thinker, perhaps wisely, turns from memory,
as from a cloud that blots the present with its shadow, and spends a little moment in this
world of opal lights and azure shades. He forgets that Nature adorned the bough for other purpose
than his joy; forgets that strange creatures, with many legs and hungry mouths, will presently
tatter each musical dome of rustling green; forgets that he gazes upon a battlefield awaiting
savage armies, which will fill high Summer with ceaseless war, to strew the fair earth with
slain. He suffers dead Winter to bury her dead, seeks the wine of life that brims in the chalices
of Spring flowers: plucks blade and blossom, and is a child again, if Time has so dealt with
him that for a little he can thus far retrace his steps; and, lastly, he turns once more to
the Mother he has forgotten, to find that she has not forgotten him. The whisper of her passing
in a greenwood glade is the murmur of waters invisible and of life unseen; the scent of her
garment comes sweet on the bloom of the blackthorn; high heaven and lowly forget-me-not alike
mirror the blue of her wonderful eyes; and the gleam of the sunshine on rippling rivers and
dreaming clouds reflects the gold of her hair. She moves a queen who, passing through one fair
corner of her world-wide kingdom, joys in it. She, the sovereign of the universe, reigns here
too, over the buds and the birds, and the happy, unconsidered life of weald and wold. Each
busy atom and unfolding frond is dear to her; each warm nest and hidden burrow inspires like
measure of her care and delight; and at this time, if ever, we may think of Nature as forgetting
Death for one magic moment, as sharing the wide joy of her wakening world, as greeting the
young mother of the year's hopes, as pressing to her bosom the babes of Spring with many a
sunny smile and rainbowed tear.

Through the woods in Teign Valley passed Clement Hicks and his sweetheart about a fortnight
after Lawyer Ford had been laid to rest in Chagford Churchyard. Chris talked about her brother
and the great enterprise he had determined upon. She supported Will and spoke with sanguine
words of his future; but Clement regarded the project differently.

"To lease Newtake Farm is a fool's trick," he said. "Everybody knows the last experiments there.
The place has been empty for ten months, and those who touched it in recent years only broke
their hearts and wasted their substance."

"Well, they weern't such men as Will. Theer's a fitness about it, tu; for Will's awn gran'faither
prospered at Newtake; an' if he could get a living, another may. Mother do like the thought
of Will being there somehow."

"I know it. The sentiment of the thing has rather blinded her natural keen judgment. Curious
that I should criticise sentiment in another person; but it 's like my cranky, contrary way.
Only I was thinking of Will's thousand pounds. Newtake will suck it out of his pocket quicker
than Cranmere sucks up a Spring shower."

"Well, I'm more hopeful. He knows the value of money; an' Phoebe will help him when she comes
up. The months slip by so quickly. By the time I've got the cobwebs out of the farm an' made
the auld rooms water-sweet, I dare say theer'll be talk of his wife joining him."

"You going up! This is the first I've heard of it."

"I meant to tell 'e to-day. Mother is willing and I'm awnly tu glad. A man's a poor left-handed
thing 'bout a house. I'd do more 'n that for Will."

"Pity he doesn't think and do something for you. Surely a little of this money--?"

"Doan't 'e touch on that, Clem. Us had a braave talk 'pon it, for he wanted to make over two
hundred pound to me, but I wouldn't dream of it, and you wouldn't have liked me tu. You 'm
the last to envy another's fair fortune."

"I do envy any man fortune. Why should I starve, waiting for you, and--?"

"Hush!" she said, as though she had spoken to a little child. "I won't hear no wild words to-day
in all this gude gold sunshine."

"God damn everything!" he burst out. "What a poor, impotent wretch He's made me--a thing to
bruise its useless hands beating the door that will never open! It maddens me--especially when
all the world's happy, like to-day--all happy but me. And you so loyal and true! What a fool
you are to stick to me and let me curse you all your life!"

"Doan't 'e, doan't 'e, Clem," said Chris wearily. She was growing well accustomed to these
ebullitions. "Doan't grudge Will his awn. Our turn will come, an' perhaps sooner than we think
for. Look round 'pon the sweet fresh airth an' budding flowers. Spring do put heart into a
body. We 'm young yet, and I'll wait for 'e if 't is till the crack o' doom."

"Life's such a cursed short thing at best--just a stormy day between two nights, one as long
as past time, the other all eternity. Have you seen a mole come up from the ground, wallow
helplessly a moment or two, half blind in the daylight, then sink back into the earth, leaving
only a mound? That's our life, yours and mine; and Fate grudges that even these few poor hours,
which make the sum of it, should be spent together. Think how long a man and woman can live
side by side at best. Yet every Sunday of your life you go to church and babble about a watchful,
loving Maker!"

"I doan't know, Clem. You an' me ban't everybody. You've told me yourself as God do play a
big game, and it doan't become this man or that woman to reckon their-selves more important
than they truly be."

"A great game, yes; but a cursed poor game--for a God. The counters don't matter, I know; they'll
soon be broken up and flung away; and the sooner the better. It's living hell to be born into
a world where there's no justice--none for king or tinker."

"Sit alongside of me and smell the primrosen an' watch thicky kingfisher catching the li'l
trout. I doan't like 'e in these bitter moods, Clem, when your talk's all dead ashes."

He sat by her and looked out over the river. It was flooded in sunlight, fringed with uncurling
green.

"I'm sick and weary of life without you. 'Conscious existence is a failure,' and the man who
found that out and said it was wise. I wish I was a bird or beast--or nothing. All the world
is mating but you and me. Nature hates me because I survive from year to year, not being fit
to. The dumb things do her greater credit than ever I can. The--"

"Now, I'll go--on my solemn word, I'll go--if you grumble any more! Essterday you was so different,
and said you'd fallen in love with Miss Spring, and pretended to speak to her and make me jealous.
You didn't do that, but you made me laugh. An' you promised a purty verse for me. Did 'e make
it up after all? I lay not."

"Yes, I did. I wasted two or three hours over it last night."

"Might 'e get ten shillings for it, like t' other?"

"It's not worth the paper it's on, unless you like it. Your praise is better than money to
me. Nobody wants any thoughts of mine. Why should they?"

"Not when they 'm all sour an' poor, same as now; but essterday you spoke like to a picture-book.
Theer's many might have took gude from what you said then."

He pulled a scrap of paper from his pocket and flung it into her lap.

"I call it 'Spring Rain,'" he said. "Yesterday the world was grey, and I was happy; to-day
the world is all gold, and I'm finding life harder and heavier than usual. Read it out slowly
to me. It was meant to be read to the song of the river, and never a prettier voice read a
rhyme than yours."

Chris smoothed the paper and recited her lover's lyrics. They had some shadow of music in them
and echoed Clem's love of beautiful things; but they lacked inspiration or much skill.

  "'Neath unnumbered crystal arrows--
      Crystal arrows from the quiver
      Of a cloud--the waters shiver
   In the woodland's dim domain;
   And the whispering of the rain
   Tinkles sweet on silver Teign--
             Tinkles on the river.

  "Through unnumbered sweet recesses--
      Sweet recesses soft in lining
      Of green moss with ivy twining--
   Daffodils, a sparkling train,
   Twinkle through the whispering rain,
   Twinkle bright by silver Teign,
             With a starry shining.

  "'Mid unnumbered little leaf-buds--
      Little leaf-buds surely bringing
      Spring once more--song birds are winging;
   And their mellow notes again
   Throb across the whispering rain,
   Till the banks of silver Teign
             Echo with their singing."

Chris, having read, made customary cheerful comment according to her limitations.

"'T is just like essterday--butivul grawing weather, but 'pears to me it's plain facts more
'n poetry. Anybody could come to the streamside and see it all for themselves."

"Many are far away, pent in bricks and mortar, yearning deep to see the dance of the Spring,
and chained out of sight of it. This might bring one glimpse to them."

"An' so it might, if you sold it for a bit of money. Then it could be printed out for 'em like
t'other was."

"You don't understand--you won't understand--even you."

"I caan't please 'e to-day. I likes the li'l verses ever so. You do make such things seem butivul
to my ear--an' so true as a photograph."

Clem shivered and stretched his hand for the paper. Then, in a moment, he had torn it into
twenty pieces and sent the fragments afloat.

"There! Let her take them to the sea with her. She understands. Maybe she'll find a cool corner
for me too before many days are passed."

Chris began to feel her patience failing.

"What, in God's name, have I done to 'e you should treat me like this?" she asked, with fire
in her eyes.

"Been fool enough to love me," he answered. "But it's never too late for a woman to change
her mind. Leave a sinking ship, or rather a ship that never got properly launched, but, sticking
out of its element, was left to rot. Why don't you leave me, Chris?"

She stroked his hand, then picked it up and laid her soft cheek against it.

"Not till the end of the world comes for wan of us, Clem. I'll love 'e always, and the better
and deeper 'cause you 'm so wisht an' unlucky somehow. But you 'm tu wise to be miserable all
your time."

"You ought to make me a man if anything could. I burn away with hopes and hopes, and more hopes
for the future, and miss the paltry thing at hand that might save me."

"Then miss it no more, love; seek closer, an' seek sharper. Maybe gude work an' gude money
's awnly waitin' for 'e to find it. Doan't look at the moon an' stars so much; think of me,
an' look lower."

Slowly the beauty of the hour and the sweet-hearted girl at his elbow threw some sunshine into
Clement's moody heart. For a little while the melancholy and shiftless dreamer grew happier.
He promised renewed activity in the future, and undertook, as a first step towards Martin Grimbal,
to inform the antiquary of that great fact which his foolish whim had thus far concealed.

"Chance might have got it to his ears through more channels than one, you would have thought;
but he's a taciturn man, asks no questions, and invites no confidences. I like him the better
for it. Next week, come what may, I'll speak to him and tell him the truth, like a plain, blunt
man."

"Do 'e that very thing," urged Chris. "Say we'm lovers these two year an' more; an' that you'd
be glad to wed me if your way o' life was bettered. Ban't beggin', as he knaws, for nobody
doubts you'm the most book-learned man in Chagford after parson."

Together they followed the winding of the river and proceeded through the valley, by wood,
and stile, and meadow, until they reached Rushford Bridge. Here they delayed a moment at the
parapet and, while they did so, John Grimbal passed on foot alone.

"His house is growing," said Clement, as they proceeded to Mrs. Blanchard's cottage.

"Aye, and his hearth will be as cold as his heart--the wretch! Well he may turn his hard face
away from me and remember what fell out on this identical spot! But for God's gude grace he'd
have been hanged to Exeter 'fore now."

"You can't put yourself in his shoes, Chris; no woman can. Think what the world looked like
to him after his loss. The girl he wanted was so near. His hands were stretched out for her;
his heart was full of her. Then to see her slip away."

"An' quite right, tu; as you was the first to say at the time. Who's gwaine to pity a thief
who loses the purse he's stole, or a poacher that fires 'pon another man's bird an' misses it?"

"All the same, I doubt he would have made a better husband for Phoebe Lyddon than ever your
brother will."

His sweetheart gasped at criticism so unexpected.

"You--you to say that! You, Will's awn friend!"

"It's true; and you know it as well as anybody. He has so little common sense."

But Chris flamed up in an instant. Nothing the man's cranky temper could do had power to irritate
her long. Nothing he might say concerning himself or her annoyed her for five minutes; but,
upon the subject of her brother, not even from Clem did Chris care to hear a disparaging word
or unfavourable comment. And this criticism, of all others, levelled against Will angered her
to instant bitter answer before she had time to measure the weight of her words.

"'Common sense'! Perhaps you'll be so kind as to give Will Blanchard a li'l of your awn--you
being so rich in it. Best look at home, and see what you can spare!"

So the lovers' quarrel which had been steadily brewing under the sunshine now bubbled over
and lowered thunder-black for the moment, as such storms will.

Clement Hicks, perfectly calm now that his sweetheart's temper was gone, marched off; and Chris,
slamming the cottage door, vanished, without taking any further leave of him than that recorded
in her last utterance.

CHAPTER II

NEWTAKE FARM

Clement Hicks told the truth when he said that Mrs. Blanchard fell something short of her usual
sound judgment and sagacity in the matter of Will's enterprise. The home of childhood is often
apt enough to exercise magic, far-reaching attraction, and even influence a mind for the most
part unsentimental. To Damaris the thought of her son winning his living where her father had
done so was pleasant and in accordance with eternal fitness. Not without emotion did she accompany
Will to Newtake Farm while yet the proposed bargain awaited completion; not without strange
awakenings in the dormant recesses of her memory did Will's mother pass and pass again through
the scenes of her earliest days. From the three stone steps, or "upping stock," at the farmhouse
door, whereat a thousand times she had seen her father mount his horse, to the environment
of the farmyard; from the strange, winding staircase of solid granite that connected upper
and lower storeys, to each mean chamber in Newtake, did Mrs. Blanchard's eyes roam thoughtfully
amid the ghosts of recollections. Her girl's life returned and the occasional bright days gleamed
forth again, vivid by contrast with the prevailing grey. So active became thought that to relieve
her mind she spoke to Will.

"The li'l chamber over the door was mine," she said; "an' your poor uncle had the next. I can
just mind him, allus at his books, to his faither's pride. Then he went away to Newton to join
some lawyer body an' larn his business. An' I mind the two small maids as was my elder sisters
and comed betwixt me an' Joel. Both died--like candles blawed out roughly by the wind. They
wasn't made o' the stuff to stand Dartymoor winters."

She paused for a few moments, then proceeded:

"Theer, to west of the yard, is a croft as had corn in it wan year, though 'tis permanent grass
now, seemin'ly. Your faither corned through theer like a snake by night more'n wance; an' oftentimes
I crept down house, shivering wi' fear an' love, to meet him under moonlight while the auld
folks slept. Tim he'd grawed to a power wi' the gypsy people by that time; but faither was
allus hard against un. He hated wanderers in tents or 'pon wheels, or even sea-gwaine sailor-men--he
carried it that far. Then comed a peep o' day when Tim's bonny yellow caravan 'peared around
the corner of that windin' road what goes all across the Moor. At the first stirring of light,
I was ready an' skipped out; an', to this hour, I mind the last thing as touched me kindly
was the red tongue of the sheep-dog. He ran a mile after the van, unhappy-like; then Tim ordered
un away, an' he stood in the white road an' held up his paw an' axed a question as plain as
a human. So Tim hit un hard wi' a gert stone, an' he yelped an' gived me up for lost, an' bolted
home wi' his tail between his legs an' his eye thrawed back full of sadness over his shoulder.
Ess fay! I can see the dust puffin' up under his pads in the grey dawn so clear as I can see you."

Again she stopped, but only for breath.

"They never answered my writings. Faither wouldn't an' mother didn't dare. But when I was near
my time, Timothy, reckoning they'd yield then if ever, arranged to be in Chagford when I should
be brought to bed. Yet 'twas ordained differ'nt, an' the roundy-poundy, wheer the caravan was
drawed up when the moment corned, be just round theer on Metherill hill, as you knaws. So it
happened right under the very walls of Newtake. In the stone circle you comed; an' by night
arterwards, sweatin' for terror, your gran'mother, as had heard tell of it, sneaked from Newtake
to kiss me an' press you to her body. Faither never knawed till long arter; an' though mother
used to say she heard un forgive me on his death-bed, 'twas her awn pious wish echoing in her
awn ears I reckon. But that's all awver an' done."

Mrs. Blanchard now sank into silent perambulation of the deserted chambers. In the kitchen
the whitewash was grimy, the ceiling and windows unclean. Ashes of a peat fire still lay upon
the cracked hearthstone, and a pair of worn-out boots, left by a tramp or the last tenant,
stood on the window-sill. Dust and filth were everywhere, but no indication of dampness or decay.

"A proper auld rogue's-roost of dirt 'tis just now," said Will; "but a few pound spent in the
right way will do a deal for it."

"An' soap an' water more," declared Mrs. Blanchard, escaping from her reverie. "What's to be
spent landlord must spend," she continued. "A little whitewash, and some plaster to fill them
holes wheer woodwork's poking through the ceiling, an' you'll be vitty again. 'Tis lonesome-like
now, along o' being deserted, an' you'll hear the rats galloping an' gallyarding by night,
but 'twill soon be all it was again--a dear li'l auld plaace, sure enough!"

She eyed the desolation affectionately.

"Theer's money in it, any way, for what wan man can do another can."

"Aye, I hope so, I b'lieve 'tis so; but you'll have to live hard, an' work hard, an' be hard,
if you wants to prosper here. Your gran'faither stood to the work like a giant, an' the sharpest-fashion
weather hurt him no worse than if he'd been a granite tor. Steel-built to his heart's core,
an' needed to be."

"An' I be a stern, far-seein' man, same as him. 'Tis generally knawn I'm no fule; and my heart's
grawed hard, tu of late days, along wi' the troubles life's brought."

She shook her head.

"You'm your faither's son, not your gran'faither's. Tim was flesh an' blood, same as you. T'other
was stone. Stone's best, when you've got to fight wi' stone; but if flesh an' blood suffers
more, it joys more, tu. I wouldn't have 'e differ'nt--not to them as loves 'e, any way."

"I sha'n't change; an' if I did to all the world else, 'twouldn't be to you, mother. You knaw
that, I reckon. I'm hopeful; I'm more; I'm 'bout as certain of fair fortune as a man can be.
Venwell rights[6] be mine, and theer's no better moorland grazing than round these paarts.
The farm-land looks a bit foul, along o' being let go to rack, but us'll soon have that clean
again, an' some gude stuff into it, tu. My awn work'll be staring me in the faace before summer;
an' by the time Phoebe do come to be mistress, nobody'll knaw Newtake, I promise 'e."

[6] Venwell rights = Venville rights.

Mrs. Blanchard viewed with some uneasiness the spectacle of valley-born and valley-nurtured
Phoebe taking up her abode on the high lands. For herself she loved them well, and the Moor
possessed no terrors for her; but she had wit to guess that her daughter-in-law would think
and feel differently. Indeed, neither woman nor man might reasonably be blamed for viewing
the farm without delight when first brought within the radius of its influence.

Newtake stood, a squat and unlovely erection, under a tar-pitched roof of slate. Its stone
walls were coated with a stucco composition, which included tallow as an ingredient and ensured
remarkable warmth and dryness. Before its face there stretched a winding road of white flint,
that climbed from the village, five miles distant, and soon vanished amid the undulations of
the hills; while, opposite, steep heathery slopes and grassy coombs ascended abruptly to masses
of weathered granite; and at the rear a hillside, whereon Metherill's scattered hut-circles
made incursions even into the fields of the farm, fell to the banks of Southern Teign where
she babbled between banks of brake-fern and heather. Swelling and sinking solemnly along the
sky, Dartmoor surrounded Newtake. At the entrance of the yard stood a broken five-barred gate
between twin masses of granite; then appeared a ragged outbuilding or two, with roofs of lichen-covered
slate; and upon one side, in a row, grew three sycamores, bent out of all uprightness by years
of western winds, and coated as to their trunks with grey lichen. Behind a cowyard of shattered
stone pavement and cracked mud stood the farm itself, and around it extended the fields belonging
thereto. They were six or seven in number, and embraced some five-and-fifty acres of land,
mostly indifferent meadow.

Seen from the winding road, or from the bird's-eye elevation of the adjacent tor, Newtake,
with its mean ship-pens and sties, outbuildings and little crofts, all huddled together, poverty-stricken,
time-fretted, wind-worn, and sad of colour, appeared a mere forlorn fragment of civilisation
left derelict upon the savage bosom of an untamable land. At dusk a handful of officers and men succeeded
in making their way to the Scots Guards'machine gun which had been silenced in the morning, and
brought it back, together with one or two wounded men of the detachment who lay around it. At intervals
during the day the British right flank was annoyed by shots from Boers on the plain to the east
of the Riet. These men several times appeared to be about to make a serious attack upon this
part of the line, but their purpose always withered up under the fire of the Grenadiers'Maxim
gun, of detachments of the Guards left to hold the southern reservoir, and of the mounted infantry
and 9th Lancers on the extreme right rear.

[Sidenote: Grenadiers and 2nd Coldstream move at 7 a. m., Nov. 28th, straight for river east of
bridge.] [Sidenote: They are stopped at 1,000 yards from it.] When
the Scots Guards commenced their turning movement, the Grenadiers
and the 2nd battalion of the Coldstream began their frontal attack,
and arrived within 1,000 or 1,100 yards of the enemy who lined the
river bank.

[175] At this range the hostile fire was so severe that it became
impossible to get nearer and, as the day wore on, the difficulty of
keeping the men supplied with ammunition grew more and more serious.

When night put an end to the engagement, in many companies the soldiers had but ten cartridges left
in their pouches with which to cover an attack, or repel a counter-stroke. So long as the men
lay flat on the ground they were little molested, as a growth of thistles hid them from the
enemy's view, but any attempt to move brought upon them a shower of bullets, to which they were
unable to reply with any effect, as the Boers, perfectly protected by their trenches or concealed by the
vegetation which lined the river bank, suffered little from the shrapnel of the supporting British
guns, and could not be seen by the infantry. [Footnote 175: A few groups of officers and men were
able to win their way three or four hundred yards nearer to the Boer
defences, but with heavy loss.] [Sidenote: 18th and 75th batteries
support Guards.] [Sidenote: Naval guns engage Boer guns.] The 18th
and 75th batteries came into action to the east of the railway, and
after various short duels with Boer guns which appeared and disappeared
on different parts of the field, they covered the movements of the
brigade of Guards.

The 75th battery was to the left rear of the 2nd Coldstream, first at 1,700, then at 1,200 yards,
range.

There it remained till 4 p. m. when, owing to casualties and want
of ammunition, it was ordered to fall back a few hundred yards.

The 18th battery, two hundred yards to the left rear of the 75th,
opened fire at 1,400 yards range; the targets for both batteries were
the buildings and enclosures stretching eastward for a mile from the
railway bridge.

The Naval brigade, about 250 strong, under the command of Major A. E. Marchant, R. M. L. I., had
been brought up by rail from Enslin under the escort of an armoured train. At about 7 a. m. their
four 12-pr. 12-cwt. guns began to engage the enemy's artillery from a knoll, a little to the west of
the line, distant 4,800 yards from the broken bridge. [Sidenote: The 9th brigade advance.] While the
Guards, covered by the fire of the artillery, were preparing for
the already described movements, Major-General Pole-Carew, as ordered
by Lord Methuen, led the 9th brigade towards the broken railway bridge,
the point assigned as his object.

But Pole-Carew speedily realised that by the time the first line of the Guards'brigade had fully extended,
their left would almost reach the railway, and would therefore overlap his right. To obtain more
room, and also in the hope of being able to turn the right flank of the enemy, he marched westward,
and, thanks to a slight swell in the ground, was able to reach the railway, some 2,000 yards south
of the broken bridge, without attracting much attention. But as soon as the Northumberland
Fusiliers were in the act of crossing the line from east to west,
the Boer guns opened upon them and a few minutes later, about 7.30
a. m., the whole river bed, west of the bridge, burst into one wide
fusilade.

In order to maintain touch with the Guards, and to protect the westward
march of his brigade, the Major-General ordered the Northumberland
Fusiliers to change direction to their right, extend, and endeavour
to beat down the enemy's enfilading musketry, which was pouring across
the plain, here smooth as a glacis and as destitute of cover.

Soon afterwards he found it necessary to leave half the battalion of the
Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders to prolong the line of the Northumberland
Fusiliers to the left; and, later, he was compelled to direct the King's
Own Yorkshire Light Infantry yet further to prolong the covering
force, behind whose protection he was making the westward march.

The continual necessity thus to increase the numbers employed in this protective work now left
him only the half-battalion of the Loyal North Lancashire and the half-battalion of the Argyll
and Sutherland Highlanders available for carrying out the original design. [Sidenote: Attempt
to take Boer outposts.] The left of the King's Own Yorkshire Light Infantry made their way to
within a few hundred yards of a farmhouse and kraal, some 300 yards south of the river. These
buildings and a patch of rocky ground to the west were strongly held as outworks by the Boers; and
Major-General Pole-Carew, being convinced by a report from Captain E. S. Bulfin, his brigade-major,
that they covered a ford across the Riet, endeavoured to take them, but without success. In
the hope of bringing enfilade fire upon the defenders, he sent a small party of Argyll and
Sutherland Highlanders into a donga, which runs into the river between the farmhouse and the
nearest Boer trench on the left bank. Advancing with a rush, this detachment reached the river bed
without loss, and was subsequently reinforced by another handful of the same battalion. [Sidenote: After
some delay they are captured.] About 11 a. m. an order reached Pole-Carew telling him that as the
Guards were crossing the river, his battalion near the railway was to cease fire so as to avoid
the possibility of injuring their comrades. This order was with the greatest difficulty conveyed
to the right of the 9th brigade, but as soon as it was obeyed, the musketry of the Boers so redoubled
in intensity that in self-defence the troops had to re-open fire.
Almost immediately after the message had arrived, Lord Methuen came
up and told Pole-Carew that the Guards had not succeeded in their
attempt to cross.

His purpose was to arrange for concerted action on the left flank.

The Major-General explained to him the local situation, and said that he proposed to reinforce the
little party of Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders in the river bank, and under cover of their fire
on the farm, rush it, and then make every effort to cross the river by the islands at Rosmead.
Lord Methuen approved, and some twenty or thirty more of the Argyll and Sutherland rushed down into
the donga. A strong flanking patrol of the King's Own Yorkshire Light Infantry, under Lt. R. M.
D. Fox, supported by a detachment of the Argyll and Sutherland, was now
utilised for the attack on the house and kraal. The Boers did not make a
vigorous resistance but retreated across the river as the British
advanced, and at about 11.30 the farm and the rocky ground were in
Major-General Pole-Carew's hands.

The enemy on the north bank had been so greatly shaken by the fire of two guns of the 18th battery, under
Capt. G. T. Forestier-Walker, that they were already in retreat from
Rosmead when the King's Own Yorkshire Light Infantry attacked the
farmhouse.

This section, which at 10.15 a. m. was sent to assist the 9th brigade
by Col. Hall, the officer commanding the artillery, had come into
action on a small knoll south-west of the village of Rosmead, on the
extreme left of the line, and its shells had dislodged a party of
about 300 Boers, who were seen galloping away northwards from Rosmead
and from the wood to the east of it.

[Sidenote: Situation at 11.30 a. m. Nov. 28th.] At 11.30 a. m. the
general situation was as follows:-- the half battalion Loyal North
Lancashire was close to the southern bank facing a ford, to which
it had been sent by Capt. Bulfin.

The farm covering the weir was in our hands; thence eastwards to
the railway stretched the 9th brigade, immovable under the fire of
the Boers entrenched along both banks. The small detachment of Argyll
and Sutherland Highlanders held the donga between the farm and the
nearest Boer trench on the south bank.

[Sidenote: Lodgments on further bank.] [Sidenote: Rosmead is captured.]
A few minutes later Lieut.-Col. Barter, K. O. Y. L. I., followed
by a few men of various corps, began to cross the river by the weir,
while a quarter of a mile lower down the stream two companies of the
Loyal North Lancashire under Major Coleridge commenced the passage
of the drift.

Major-General Pole-Carew now despatched a messenger to inform Lord Methuen, who had returned to
the centre of the line, that he had made a lodgment on the right bank and required reinforcements.
But there were no troops in hand. No battalions had been retained
as final reserve, and the only troops not engaged were the baggage guard
of six companies of the Northampton regiment and three companies
of Royal engineers.

All that could be done was to direct various officers to convey orders to the 9th brigade, and
to the companies of the Guards in its immediate neighbourhood to
move westward, in support of the movement on the extreme left.

But their efforts served to prove once more the truth of the axiom that when once troops are heavily engaged
in the fire-fight, they can only advance or retire; for it was found impossible to withdraw any
large number of men from the right and centre of the 9th brigade. Without waiting for the reinforcements
he had asked for, the Major-General, as soon as he had collected about 150 men of various corps,
dashed into the river, and partly by wading through water up to the men's armpits, partly by
scrambling along the wall of the weir, brought his party safely into Rosmead. [Sidenote: Pole-Carew
moves against Modder River village.] After making preparations to repulse any attempt by the enemy
to recapture the village, the Brigadier began to organise a force with which to push up the
right bank towards Modder River village, and thus attack the heart of the defence. In about an
hour he had collected some five hundred men of various corps, and leaving part of the Loyal North
Lancashire to guard Rosmead, he advanced eastward to capture this
important post.

On his right, in the brushwood, were some of the Argyll and Sutherland
Highlanders.

On the left were parties of the King's Own Yorkshire Light Infantry under Colonel Barter, and
some of the Loyal North Lancashire. A company of Northumberland Fusiliers, commanded by Major
the Hon. C. Lambton, followed in support; and a patrol of Rimington's Guides scouted on the
left flank. [Sidenote: Vigorous resistance by Albrecht.] At first his men were little exposed to
fire, but when they reached the neighbourhood of Fraser's farm they found the enemy prepared for
them.

A storm of bullets, and of inverted shrapnel from Albrecht's guns
[176] (at the spot where these guns are shown 500 yards north-west
of the bridge), fell upon them as they endeavoured to cross long hedges
of prickly pear, and to climb through strong wire fences.

Nor were other Boer artillerymen, posted close to the railway station,
unobservant of the British flanking movement.

Their shells fell thick among the ranks of the detachment, while the burghers in the trenches on the
south side of the river, turning their aim from the right and centre of the 9th brigade, poured
their fire against those who were the more dangerous enemy, because threatening to cut off their retreat.
The Brigadier had expected that the party of Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders, placed in the donga
on the left bank of the river, would have kept these Boers in check by flanking fire; but owing
to a mistake either in the delivery, or in the interpretation, of an order, the officers had
brought their men across the Riet and had joined in the advance along the right bank. [Footnote
176: Major Albrecht fought his guns with great determination; his infantry escort, according to Boer
accounts, retreated when they saw the advance of the British, and
his ammunition was almost exhausted, but his gunners stood their
ground.] [Sidenote: Pole-Carew is obliged to fall back to Rosmead.]
[Sidenote: Nov. 28th/ 99.] [Sidenote: Lord Methuen being wounded command
devolves on Colvile.] Captain Forestier-Walker, who was now in action
with the section of the 18th battery near the farm which had been
carried earlier in the day by the King's Own Yorkshire Light Infantry,
vigorously shelled the trees and brushwood in front of our men as
they advanced, but his efforts were much hampered by the fact that
the undergrowth was so thick that it was impossible to see exactly
how far forward they were.

All attempts to establish communication by signal, between the officer commanding the 9th brigade
and the troops on the south side of the river, failed. The attack broke down from want of strength
to drive it home, and the baffled troops sullenly fell back to Rosmead. They were so closely pressed
by the enemy's musketry that, in order to cover the retreat, two officers, Major H. F. Coleridge,
North Lancashire, and Captain T. Irvine, Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders, each with ten or
eleven men of different battalions, threw themselves into farmhouses, which they stubbornly defended
until, many hours later, after their detachments had suffered severe
loss, they were ordered to evacuate their posts.

On his return to the village Major-General Pole-Carew found that
the British strength on the north bank had been increased by the arrival
of 300 officers and men of the Royal engineers, and of part of a company
of the 2nd battalion of the Coldstream Guards.

After writing to Lord Methuen to report his failure to force his way up the right bank, and to ask for
co-operation in the fresh attempt for which he was then rallying his troops, Pole-Carew heard
a rumour that Lord Methuen had been wounded, and that Major-General Colvile was now in command
of the division. The rumour was true. Lord Methuen had been wounded at about 4 p. m. near
the centre of the line, and one of his staff officers, Colonel H. P. Northcott, had previously
fallen mortally wounded, while conveying orders for the reinforcement
of the troops on the north bank.

Not long after this news came in, the officer commanding the two guns of the 18th battery, still
in action near the farm to the south of Rosmead, reported that he heard through the officer commanding
the artillery that Major-General Colvile had issued orders for a vigorous
bombardment of the position by the artillery till dusk, when the
Guards were to attack the left of the Boer line with the bayonet.

Pole-Carew then considered whether, in view of the projected movement
of the Guards'brigade, his local attack was still feasible.

He decided that, owing to the configuration of the ground over which both bodies of troops would
have to move in the darkness, the danger was so great lest his detachment should enfilade the Guards as to
prohibit an advance from Rosmead. All, therefore, that could be done was to secure firmly that
village. [Sidenote: 62nd battery with four guns arrives after forced march.] While the little column
had been striving in vain to force its way up the right bank of the river, the situation on the
left bank had remained unchanged. The infantry lay prone on the ground, engaged in a desultory
fire-fight with an unseen enemy, while the artillery continued to
shell the buildings and the river-banks near the railway bridge. During
the course of the afternoon Colonel Hall, commanding the artillery,
had received a welcome reinforcement of four guns of the 62nd battery,
under Major E. J. Granet.

The 62nd, which had been left to guard the Orange River bridge, received orders late on the 26th to
leave two guns at that camp, and proceed with all speed to rejoin Lord Methuen's division. Owing to a deficiency
in rolling stock, no railway transport was available, and it became necessary for the battery
to march the whole way.

Starting at 10 a. m. on the 27th, Major Granet reached Belmont, thirty
miles distant, at dusk. He halted there till 6 a. m. on the 28th, when,
escorted by twenty-five of the Royal Munster Fusiliers mounted infantry,
he marched to Honey Nest Kloof, where he decided to water and feed
his horses.

He had but just halted, when a message
reached him that there was fighting on the Riet river and that guns
and ammunition were urgently required there.

He started immediately, and despite the heavy ground over which he
had to pass, reached the battlefield a little after 2 p. m. In twenty-eight
hours the 62nd battery had covered sixty-two miles, at the expense
of six horses which fell dead in the traces, and of about forty more,
which never recovered from the fatigue of this forced march.

The battery was
first sent to the left to support the advance up the north bank of
the river, but before it had opened fire, Colonel Hall ordered Major
Granet more to the eastward, as he was afraid that the shells might
fall among the detachment during its progress through the trees and
brushwood which concealed its movements.

At 2.45 p. m., the 62nd came
into action 1,200 yards from the south bank, behind a swell in the
ground which covered the gunners from the waist downwards. Its fire, aimed
first at the north bank, was distributed laterally, and then for depth,
with good results, as the enemy's musketry slackened, and numbers
of men were seen stealing away. About 5 p. m., to support the projected
attack by the Guards, the battery was moved close to a sandpit on
the west of the railway, where it was joined by the section of the
18th from the left of the line.

[Sidenote: Colvile breaks off the fight.] After considerable delay, caused by the difficulty of sending
messages across the shot-swept plain, Major-General Colvile was informed that Lord Methuen had been
wounded, and that the command of the division had devolved upon him. He handed over the Guards'brigade
to Colonel Paget, Scots Guards, with orders to collect his battalions for the attack upon the left of the
Boer line, but soon afterwards decided that it was too late to risk the passage of the river
at night with troops exhausted by hunger, thirst, and the burning heat of an exceptionally hot day.
He therefore resolved to break off the fight till daybreak next morning, and directed Colonel
Paget to form up his brigade for the night at the southern reservoir. [Sidenote: Pole-Carew holds Rosmead,
and concentrates 9th brigade on north bank.] [Sidenote: Boers abandon position. Night, Nov.
28-29.] As soon as Major-General Pole-Carew reluctantly abandoned the idea of renewing his attack
along the north bank of the Riet, he posted his troops for the defence of Rosmead. He realised the
risks which he ran in holding so isolated a position throughout the night, but he and his staff
considered that the importance of maintaining the lodgment, which had been effected on the enemy's
side of the Riet, made it worth while to incur the danger. To the Royal engineers, under Major G. F.
Leverson, was allotted the western face of the village; the Yorkshire Light Infantry held the north,
and the Loyal North Lancashire the north-east; the Argyll and Sutherland guarded the east. The
men lined the walls, banks, and houses at a yard and a half apart, in groups of six, of whom
five rested while one stood sentry. In the centre of the village was the reserve, two companies of
the Northumberland Fusiliers, and a company of the 2nd battalion Coldstream Guards. The remainder of
the 9th brigade was ordered to cross the river. To guide them, two fires were lit at the drift;
and by daybreak the whole command was concentrated on the north bank. It was reinforced by the
1st Highland Light Infantry, who had arrived during the night by rail from Orange River.
In the grey of the morning, while the Guards were preparing to support the 9th brigade, the guns
[177] re-opened fire upon Modder River village, but it was soon discovered that during the night the
enemy had abandoned his position, and had disappeared with all his
guns and pom-poms.

With horses utterly tired out, immediate pursuit was impossible,
though by midday patrols of mounted men had regained touch with such
of the Boers as had fallen back upon Magersfontein.

By the afternoon, the whole division had crossed the Riet, and was concentrated on its northern
bank.

[Footnote 177: On the 28th, the field batteries expended ammunition as follows:-- 18th 1,029
rounds 62nd 247 "75th 1,008" The Naval guns 260 "] [Sidenote: Casualties of Nov. 28th.] The British
casualties consisted of four officers killed (among whom was Lieut.-Colonel H. R. Stopford,
commanding the 2nd battalion Coldstream Guards) and 19 wounded; among the other ranks 67 were
killed, and 370 wounded. [178] The losses among the Boers are not accurately
known, but 23 burghers were found dead in Rosmead and buried near
the village, while 27 bodies were subsequently found in the river
itself.

[Footnote 178: For details as to casualties, see Appendix 6.] CHAPTER XVI. THE RAID ON SOUTHERN NATAL.
[179] [Footnote 179: See map No. 4.] [Sidenote: The relation of Ladysmith to the defence of Natal.]
Throughout the operations in Natal during the opening phase of the war, Sir G. White had held that
a mobile force, concentrated north of the Tugela, afforded better protection to the central and
southern portions of the colony than any number of detachments stationed
on the lines of communication.

"Ess; an' when 'tis wedlock wi' Blanchard, an' winter on Dartymoor, 'twould tame the daughter
of the Dowl, if he had wan."

Billy laughed at this thought. His back rounded as he sat in his chair, his head seemed to
rise off his lower jaw, and the yellow frill of hair under his chin stood stiffly out.

"He's my son-in-law; you 'pear to forget that, Blee," said Mr. Lyddon; "I'm sure I wish I could,
if 'twas even now an' again."

Thereupon Billy straightened his face and cast both rancour and merriment to the winds.

"Why, so he be; an' grey hairs should allus make allowance for the young youths; though I ain't
forgot that spadeful o' muck yet, an' never shall. But theer's poison in bwoy's blood what
awnly works out of the brain come forty. I'm sure I wish nothing but well to un. He's got his
saving graces, same as all of us, if we could but see 'em; an' come what may, God looks arter
His awn chosen fules, so theer's hope even for Blanchard." "Cold consolation," said Mr. Lyddon
wearily; "but't is all we've got. Two nights since I dreamt I saw un starvin' on a dunghill.
'T was a parable, I judge, an' meant Newtake Farm."

CHAPTER IV

DEFEATED HOPES

Below Newtake Farm the river Teign wound, with many a foaming fall and singing rapid, to confluence
with her twin sister in the valley beneath. Here, at a certain spot, above the forest and beneath
the farm, stood Martin Grimbal on a bright afternoon in May. Over his head rose a rowan, in
a soft cloud of serrated foliage, with clusters of grey-green flower buds already foretelling
the crimson to come; about his feet a silver army of uncurling fronds brightened the earth
and softened the sharp edges of the boulders scattered down the coomb. Here the lover waited
to the music of a cuckoo, and his eyes ever turned towards a stile at the edge of the pine
woods, two hundred yards distant from him.

The hour was one of tremendous possibilities, because Fate had been occupied with Martin through
many days, and now he stood on the brink of great joy or sorrow. Clement Hicks had never spoken
to him. During his quarrel with Chris, which lasted a fortnight, the bee-keeper purposely abstained
from doing her bidding, while after their reconciliation every other matter in the world was
swallowed up for a time in the delight of renewed love-making. The girl, assuming throughout
these long weeks that Martin now knew all, had met him in frank and kindly spirit on those
occasions when he planned to enjoy her society, and this open warmth awoke renewed heart for
Grimbal, who into her genial friendship read promise and from it recruited hope. His love now
dominated his spiritual being and filled his life. Grey granite was grey granite only, and
no more. During his long walks by pillar-stone, remote row, and lonely circle, Chris, and Chris
alone, occupied his brain. He debated the advisability of approaching Will, then turned rather
to the thought of sounding Mrs. Blanchard, and finally nerved himself to right action and determined
to address Chris. He felt this present heart-shaking suspense must be laid at rest, for the
peace of his soul, and therefore he took his courage in his hands and faced the ordeal.

That day Chris was going up to Newtake. She had not yet settled there, though her brother and
Sam Bonus were already upon the ground, but the girl came and went, busying her fingers with
a hundred small matters that daily increased the comfort of the little farm. Her way lay usually
by the coomb, and Martin, having learned that she was visiting Will on the occasion in question,
set out before her and awaited her here, beside the river, in a lonely spot between the moorland
above and the forest below. He felt physically nervous, yet hope brightened his mind, though
he tried to strangle it. Worn and weary with his long struggle, he paced up and down, now looking
to the stile, now casting dissatisfied glances upon his own person. Shaving with more than
usual care, he had cut his chin deeply, and, though he knew it not, the wound had bled again
since he left home and ruined both his collar and a new tie, put on for the occasion.

Presently he saw her. A sunbonnet bobbed at the stile and Chris appeared, bearing a roll of
chintz for Newtake blinds. In her other hand she carried half a dozen bluebells from the woods,
and she came with the free gait acquired in keeping stride through long tramps with Will when
yet her frocks were short. Martin loved her characteristic speed in walking. So Diana doubtless
moved. The spring sunshine had found Chris and the clear, soft brown of her cheek was the most
beautiful thing in nature to the antiquary. He knew her face so well now: the dainty poise
of her head, the light of her eyes, the dark curls that always clustered in the same places,
the little updrawing at the corner of her mouth as she smiled, the sudden gleam of her teeth
when she laughed, and the abrupt transitions of her expression from repose to gladness, from
gladness back again into repose.

She saw the man before she reached him, and waved her bluebells to show that she had done so.
Then he rose from his granite seat and took off his hat and stood with it off, while his heart
thundered, his eye watered, and his mouth twitched. But he was outwardly calm by the time Chris
reached him.

"What a surprise to find 'e here, Martin! Yet not much, neither, for wheer the auld stones
be, theer you 'm to be expected."

"How are you, Chris? But I needn't ask. Yes, I'm fond of the stones."

"Well you may be. They talk to 'e like friends, seemingly. An' even I knaw a sight more 'bout
'em now. You've made me feel so differ'nt to 'em, you caan't think."

"For that matter," he answered, leaping at the chance, "you've made me feel different to them."

"Why, how could I, Martin?"

"I'll tell you. Would you mind sitting down here, just for a moment? I won't keep you. I've
no right to ask for a minute of your time; but there's dry moss upon it--I mean the stone;
and I was waiting on purpose, if you'll forgive me for waylaying you like this. There's a little
thing--a big thing, I mean--the biggest--too big for words almost, yet it wants words--and
yet sometimes it doesn't--at least--I--would you sit here?"

He was breathing rather hard, and his words were tripping. Managing his voice ill, the tones
of it ran away from bass to shrill treble. She saw it all at a glance, and realised that Martin
had been blundering on, in pure ignorance and pure love, all these weary weeks. She sat down
silently and her mind moved like light along the wide gamut of fifty emotions in a second.
Anger and sorrow strove together,--anger with Clem and his callous, cynic silence, sorrow for
the panting wretch before her. Chris opened her mouth to speak, then realised where her flying
thoughts had taken her and that, as yet, Martin Grimbal had said nothing. Her unmaidenly attitude
and the sudden reflection that she was about to refuse one before he had asked her, awoke a
hysteric inclination to laugh, then a longing to cry. But all the anxious-visaged man before
her noted was a blush that waved like auroral light from the girl's neck to her cheek, from
her cheek to her forehead. That he saw, and thought it was love, and thanked the Lord in his
clumsy fashion aloud.

"God be praised! I do think you guess--I do think you guess! But oh, my dear, my dear, you
don't know what 's in my heart for you. My little pearl of a Chris, can you care for such a
bear of a man? Can you let me labour all my life long to make your days good to you? I love
you so--I do. I never thought when the moment came I should find tongue to speak it, but I
have; and now I could say it fifty thousand times. I'd just be proud to tie your shoe-string,
Chris, my dear, and be your old slave and--Chris! my Chris! I've hurt you; I've made you cry!
Was I--was I all wrong? Don't, don't--I'll go--Oh, my darling one, God knows I wouldn't--"

He broke off blankly and stood half sorrowful, half joyous. He knew he had no right as yet
to go to the comfort of the girl now sobbing beside him, but hope was not dead. And Chris,
overcome by this outpouring of love, now suffered very deep sorrow, while she turned away from
him and hid her face and wept. The poor distracted fool still failed to guess the truth, for
he knew tint tears are the outcome of happiness as well as misery. He waited, open-mouthed,
he murmured something--God knows what--then he went close and thought to touch her waist, but
feared and laid his hand gently on her shoulder.

"Don't 'e!" she said; and he began to understand and to struggle with himself to lessen her
difficulty.

"Forgive me--forgive me if you can, Chris. Was I all wrong? Then I ought to have known better--but
even an old stick like me--before you, Chris. Somehow I--but don't cry. I wouldn't have brought
the tears to your eyes for all the world--dense idiot I am--"

"No, no, no; no such thing 't all, Martin. 'Tis I was cruel not to see you didn't knaw. You've
been treated ill, an' I'm cryin' that such a gude--gude, braave, big-hearted man as you, should
be brought to this for a fule of a gal like me. I ban't worthy a handshake from 'e, or a kind
word. An'--an'--Clem Hicks--Clem be tokened to me these two year an' more. He'm the best man
in the world; an' I hate un for not tellin' 'e--an'--an'--"

Chris sobbed herself to the end of her tears; and the man took his trial--like a man. His only
thought was the sadness his blunder had brought with it for her. To misread her blush seemed
in his humility a crime. His consistent unselfishness blinded him, for an instant at least,
to his own grief. He blamed himself and asked pardon and prepared to get away out of her sight
as soon as possible.

"Forgive me, Chris--I needn't ask you twice, I know--such a stupid thing--I didn't understand--I
never observed: but more shame to me. I ought to have seen, of course. Anybody else would--any
man of proper feeling."

"How could 'e see it with a secret chap like him? He ought to have told 'e; I bid un speak
months since; an' I thought he had; an' I hate un for not doing it!"

"But you mustn't. Don't cry any more, and forget all about it. I could almost laugh to think
how blind I've been. We'll both laugh next time we meet. If you're happy, then I'll laugh always.
That's all I care for. Now I know you're happy again, I'm happy, too, Chris--honour bright.
And I'll be a friend still--remember that--always--to you--to you and him."

"I hate un, I say."

"Why, he didn't give me credit for being such a bat--such a mole. Now I must be away. We'll
meet pretty soon, I expect. Just forget this afternoon as though it had never been, even though
it's such a jolly sunny one. And remember me as a friend--a friend still for all my foolishness.
Good-by for the present. Good-by."

He nodded, making the parting a slight thing and not missing the ludicrous in his anxiety to
spare her pain. He went down the valley, leaving her sitting alone. He assumed a jaunty air
and did not look round, but hastened off to the stile. Never in his most light-hearted moments
had he walked thus or struck right and left at the leaves and shrubs with such a clumsy affectation
of nonchalance. Thus he played the fool until out of sight; then his head came down, and his
feet dragged, and his walk and mien grew years older than his age. He stopped presently and
stood still, staring upon the silence. Westering sunlight winnowed through the underwood, splashed
into its sombre depths and brightened the sobriety of a grey carpet dotted with dead cones.
Sweet scents floated downward upon the sad whisper that lives in every pine forest; then came
suddenly a crisp rattle of little claws and a tiny barking, where two red squirrels made love,
high aloft, amid the grey lichens and emerald haze of a great larch that gleamed like a green
lamp through the night of the dark surrounding foliage.

Martin Grimbal dropped his stick and flung down his body in the hushed and hidden dreamland
of the wood. Now he knew that his hope had lied to him, that the judgment he prided himself
upon, and which had prompted him to this great deed, was at fault. The more than common tact
and delicacy of feeling he had sometimes suspected he possessed in rare, exalted moments, were
now shown vain ideas born from his own conceit; and the event had proved him no more subtle,
clever, or far-seeing than other men. Indeed, he rated himself as an abject blunderer and thought
he saw how a great overwhelming fear, at the bottom of his worship of Chris, had been the only
true note in all that past war of emotions. But he had refused to listen and pushed forward;
and now he stood thus. Looking back in the light of his defeat, his previous temerity amazed
him. His own ugliness, awkwardness, and general unfitness to be the husband of Chris were ideas
now thrust upward in all honesty to the top of his mind. No mock modesty or simulated delicacy
inspired them, for after defeat a man is frank with himself. Whatever he may have pretended
before he puts his love to the test, however he may have blinded himself as to his real feelings
and beliefs before he offers his heart, after the event has ended unfavourably his real soul
stands naked before him and, according to his character, he decides whether himself or the
girl is the fool. Grimbal criticised his own audacity with scanty compassion now; and the thought
of the tears of Chris made him clench one hand and smash it hard again and again into the palm
of the other. No passionate protest rose in his mind against the selfish silence of Clement
Hicks; he only saw his own blindness and magnified it into an absolute offence against Chris.
Presently, as the sunlight sank lower, and the straight stems of the pines glimmered red-gold
against the deepening gloom, Martin retraced the scene that was past and recalled her words
and actions, her tears, the trembling of her mouth, and that gesture when the wild flowers
dropped from her hand and her fingers went up to cover her eyes. Then a sudden desire mastered
him: to possess the purple of her bluebell bouquet. He knew she would not pick it up again
when he was gone; so he returned, stood in that theatre of Fate beneath the rowan, saw where
her body had pressed the grass, and found the fading flowers.

Then he turned to tramp home, with the truth gnawing his heart at last. The excitement was
over, all flutter of hope and fear at rest. Only that bitter fact of failure remained, with
the knowledge that one, but yesterday so essential and so near, had now vanished like a rainbow
beyond his reach.

Martin's eyes were opened in the light of this experience. John came into his mind, and estimating
his brother's sufferings by his own, the stricken man found room in his sad heart for pity.

CHAPTER V

THE ZEAL OF SAM BONUS

Under conditions of spring and summer Newtake Farm flattered Will's hopes not a little. He
worked like a giant, appropriated some of that credit belonging to fine weather, and viewed
the future with very considerable tranquillity. Of beasts he purchased wisely, being guided
in that matter by Mr. Lyddon; but for the rest he was content to take his own advice. Already
his ambition extended beyond the present limits of his domain; already he contemplated the
possibility of reclaiming some of the outlying waste and enlarging his borders. If the Duchy
might spread greedy fingers and inclose "newtakes," why not the Venville tenants? Many besides
Will asked themselves that question; the position was indeed fruitful of disputes in various
districts, especially on certain questions involving cattle; and no moorland Quarter breathed
forth greater discontent against the powers than that of which Chagford was the central parish.

Sam Bonus, inspired by his master's sanguine survey of life, toiled amain, believed all that
Will predicted, and approved each enterprise he planned; while as for Chris, in due time she
settled at Newtake and undertook woman's work there with her customary thoroughness and energy.
To her lot fell the poultry, the pair of fox-hound puppies that Will undertook to keep for
the neighbouring hunt, and all the interior economy and control of the little household.

On Sundays Phoebe heard of the splendid doings at Newtake; upon which she envied Chris her
labours, and longed to be at Will's right hand. For the present, however, Miller Lyddon refused
his daughter permission even to visit the farm; and she obeyed, despite her husband's indignant
protests.

Thus matters stood while the sun shone brightly from summer skies. Will, when he visited Chagford
market, talked to the grizzled farmers, elaborated his experience, shook his head or nodded
it knowingly as they, in their turn, discussed the business of life, paid due respect to their
wisdom, and offered a little of his own in exchange for it. That the older men lacked pluck
was his secret conviction. The valley folk were braver; but the upland agriculturists, all
save himself, went in fear. Their eyes were careworn, their caution extreme; behind the summer
they saw another shadow forever moving; and the annual struggle with those ice-bound or water-logged
months of the early year, while as yet the Moor had nothing for their stock, left them wearied
and spiritless when the splendour of the summer came. They farmed furtively, snatching at such
good as appeared, distrusting their own husbandry, fattening the land with reluctance, cowering
under the shadow of withered hopes and disappointments too numerous to count. Will pitied this
mean spirit and, unfamiliar with wet autumns and hard winters on the high land, laughed at
his fellow-countrymen. But they were kind and bid him be cautious and keep his little nest-egg
snug.

"Tie it up in stout leather, my son," said a farmer from Gidleigh. "Ay, an' fasten the bag
wi' a knot as'll take 'e half an hour to undo; an' remember, the less you open it, the better
for your peace of mind."

All of which good counsel Blanchard received with expressions of gratitude, yet secretly held
to be but the croaking of a past generation, stranded far behind that wave of progress on which
he himself was advancing crest-high.

It happened one evening, when Clement Hicks visited Newtake to go for a walk under the full
moon with Chris, that he learnt she was away for a few days. This fact had been mentioned to
Clement; but he forgot it, and now found himself here, with only Will and Sam Bonus for company.
He accepted the young farmer's invitation to supper, and the result proved unlucky in more
directions than one. During this meal Clem railed in surly vein against the whole order of
things as it affected himself, and made egotistical complaint as to the hardness of life; then,
when his host began to offer advice, he grew savage and taunted Will with his own unearned
good fortune. Blanchard, weary after a day of tremendous physical exertion, made sharp answer.
He felt his old admiration for Clem Hicks much lessened of late, and it nettled him not a little
that his friend should thus attribute his present position to the mere accident of a windfall.
He was heartily sick of the other's endless complaints, and now spoke roughly and to the point.

"What the devil's the gude of this eternal bleat? You'm allus snarlin' an' gnashin' your teeth
'gainst God, like a rat bitin' the stick that's killin' it."

"And why should God kill me? You've grown so wise of late, perhaps you know."

"Why shouldn't He? Why shouldn't He kill you, or any other man, if He wants the room of un
for a better? Not that I believe parson's stuff more 'n you; but grizzlin' your guts to fiddlestrings
won't mend your fortune. Best to put your time into work, 'stead o' talk--same as me an' Bonus.
And as for my money, you knaw right well if theer'd been two thousand 'stead of wan, I'd have
shared it with Chris."

"Easy to say! If there had been two, you would have said, 'If it was only four'! That's human
nature."

"Ban't my nature, anyway, to tell a lie!" burst out Will.

"Perhaps it's your nature to do worse. What were you about last Christmas?"

Blanchard set down knife and fork and looked the other in the face. None had heard this, for
Bonus, his meal ended, went off to the little tallet over a cattle-byre which was his private
apartment.

"You'd rip that up again--you, who swore never to open' your mouth upon it?"

"You're frightened now."

"Not of you, anyway. But you'd best not to come up here no more. I'm weary of you; I don't
fear you worse than a blind worm; but such as you are, you've grawed against me since my luck
comed. I wish Chris would drop you as easy as I can, for you'm teachin' her to waste her life,
same as you waste yours."

"Very well, I'll go. We're enemies henceforth, since you wish it so."

"Blamed if you ban't enough to weary Job! 'Enemies'! It's like a child talkin'. 'Enemies'!
D'you think I care a damn wan way or t'other? You'm so bad as Jan Grimbal wi' his big play-actin'
talk. He'm gwaine to cut my tether some day. P'r'aps you'll go an' help un to do it! The past
is done, an' no man who weern't devil all through would go back on such a oath as you sweared
to me. An' you won't. As to what's to come, you can't hurt a straight plain-dealer, same as
me, though you'm free an' welcome to try if you please to."

"The future may take care of itself; and for your straight speaking I'll give you mine. Go
your way and I'll go my way; but until you beg my forgiveness for this night's talk I'll never
cross your threshold again, or speak to you, or think of you."

Clement rose from his unfinished food, picked up his hat, and vanished, and Will, dismissing
the matter with a toss of his head and a contemptuous expiration of breath, gave the poet's
plate of cold potato and bacon to a sheep-dog and lighted his pipe.

Not ten hours later, while yet some irritation at the beekeeper's spleen troubled Blanchard's
thoughts as he laboured upon his land, a voice saluted him from the highway and he saw a friend.

"An' gude-marnin' to you, Martin. Another braave day, sure 'nough. Climb awver the hedge. You'm
movin' early. Ban't eight o'clock."

"I'm off to the 'Grey Wethers,' those old ruined circles under Sittaford Tor, you know. But
I meant a visit to you as well. Bonus was in the farmyard and brought me with him."

"Ess fay, us works, I tell 'e. We'm fightin' the rabbits now. The li'l varmints have had it
all theer way tu long; but this wire netting'll keep 'em out the corn next year an' the turnips
come autumn. How be you fearin'? I aint seen 'e this longful time."

"Well, thank you; and as busy as you in my way. I'm going to write a book about the Dartmoor
stones."

"'S truth! Be you? Who'll read it?"

"Don't know yet. And, after all, I have found out little that sharper eyes haven't discovered
already. Still, it fills my time. And it is that I'm here about."

"You can go down awver my land to the hut-circles an' welcome whenever you mind to."

"Sure of it, and thank you; but it's another thing just now--your brother-in-law to be. I think
perhaps, if he has leisure, he might be useful to me. A very clever fellow, Hicks."

But Will was in no humour to hear Clement praised just then, or suggest schemes for his advancement.

"He'm a weak sapling of a man, if you ax me. Allus grumblin', an' soft wi' it--as I knaw--none
better," said Blanchard, watching Bonus struggle with the rabbit netting.

"He's out of his element, I think--a student--a bookish man, like myself."

"As like you as chalk's like cheese--no more. His temper, tu! A bull in spring's a fule to
him. I'm weary of him an' his cleverness."

"You see, if I may venture to say so, Chris--"

"I knaw all 'bout that. 'Tis like your gudeness to try an' put a li'l money in his pocket wi'out
stepping on his corns. They 'm tokened. Young people 's so muddle-headed. Bees indeed! Nice
things to keep a wife an' bring up a fam'ly on! An' he do nothin' but write rhymes, an' tear
'em up again, an' cuss his luck, wi'out tryin' to mend it. I thought something of un wance,
when I was no more 'n a bwoy, but as I get up in years I see the emptiness of un."

"He would grow happy and sweeter-hearted if he could marry your sister."

"Not him! Of course, if it's got to be, it will be. I ban't gwaine to see Chris graw into an
auld maid. An' come bimebye, when I've saved a few hunderd, I shall set 'em up myself. But
she's makin' a big mistake, an', to a friend, I doan't mind tellin' 'e 'tis so."

"I hope you're wrong. They'll be happy together. They have great love each for the other. But,
of course, that's nothing to do with me. I merely want Hicks to undertake some clerical work
for me, as a matter of business, and I thought you might tell me the best way to tackle him
without hurting his feelings. He's a proud man, I fancy."

"Ess; an' pride's a purty fulish coat for poverty, ban't it? I've gived that man as gude advice
as ever I gived any man; but what's well-thought-out wisdom to the likes of him? Get un a job
if you mind to. I shouldn't--not till he shaws better metal and grips the facts o' life wi'
a tighter hand."

"I'll sound him as delicately as I can. It may be that his self-respect would strengthen if
he found his talents appreciated and able to command a little money. He wants something of
that sort--eh?"

"Doan't knaw but what a hiding wouldn't be so gude for un as anything," mused Will. There was
no animosity in the reflection. His ill-temper had long since vanished, and he considered Clement
as he might have considered a young, wayward dog which had erred and brought itself within
reach of the lash.

"I was welted in my time hard an' often, an' be none the worse," he continued.

Martin smiled and shook his head.

"Might have served him once; too late now for that remedy, I fear."

There was a brief pause, then Will changed the conversation abruptly.

"How's your brother Jan?" he asked.

"He's furnishing his new house and busy about the formation of a volunteer corps. I met him
not long since in Fingle Gorge."

"Be you friends now, if I may ax?"

"I tried to be. We live and learn. Things happened to me a while ago that taught me what I
didn't know. I spoke to him and reminded him of the long years in Africa. Blood's thicker than
water, Blanchard."

"So 'tis. What did he make of it?"

"He looked up and hesitated. Then he shook his head and set his face against me, and said he
would not have my friendship as a gift."

"He's a gude hater."

"Time will bring the best of him to the top again some day. I understand him, I think. We possess
more in common than people suppose. We feel deeply and haven't a grain of philosophy between us."

"Well, I reckon I've allus been inclined to deep ways of thought myself; and work up here,
wi' nothing to break your thoughts but the sight of a hawk or the twinkle of a rabbit's scut,
be very ripening to the mind. If awnly Phoebe was here! Sometimes I'm in a mood to ramp down-long
an' hale her home, whether or no. But I sweats the longing out o' me wi' work."

"The day will soon come. Time drags with me just now, somehow, but it races with you, I'll
warrant. I must get on with my book, and see Hicks and try and persuade him to help me."

"'Tis like your big nature to put it that way. You'rn tu soft-hearted a man to dwell in a house
all alone. Let the dead stones bide, Martin, an' look round for a wife. Theer's more gude advice.
Blamed if I doan't advise everybody nowadays! Us must all come to it. Look round about an'
try to love a woman. 'T will surprise 'e an' spoil sleep if you can bring yourself to it. But
the cuddlin' of a soft gal doan't weaken man's thews and sinews neither. It hardens 'em, I
reckon, an' puts fight in the most poor-spirited twoad as ever failed in love. 'Tis a manly
thing, an' 'boldens the heart like; an', arter she's said 'Yes' to 'e, you'll find a wonnerful
change come awver life. 'Tis all her, then. The most awnself[8] man feels it more or less,
an' gets shook out of his shell. You'll knaw some day. Of course I speaks as wan auld in love
an' married into the bargain."

[8] Awnself=selfish.

"You speak from experience, I know. And is Phoebe as wise as you, Will?"

"Waitin' be harder for a wummon. They've less to busy the mind, an' less mind to busy, for
that matter."

"That's ungallant."

"I doan't knaw. 'Tis true, anyway. I shouldn't have failed in love wi' her if she'd been cleverer'n
me."

"Or she with you, perhaps?"

"P'r'aps not. Anyway as it stands we'm halves of a whole: made for man and wife. I reckon I
weern't wan to miss my way in love like some poor fules, as wastes it wheer they might see't
wasn't wanted if they'd got eyes in their heads."

"What it is to be so wise!"

Will laughed joyously in his wisdom.

"Very gude of 'e to say that. 'Tis a happy thing to have sense enough. Not but we larn an' larn."

"So we should. Well, I must be off now. I'm safe on the Moor to-day!"

"Ess, by the looks of it. Theer'll likely come some mist after noon, but shouldn't be very thick."

So they parted, Blanchard having unconsciously sown the seed of an ugly crop that would take
long in reaping. His remarks concerning Clement Hicks were safe enough with Martin, but another
had heard them as he worked within earshot of his master. Bonus, though his judgment was scanty,
entertained a profound admiration for Will; and thus it came about, that a few days later,
when in Chagford, he called at the "Green Man" and made some grave mischief while he sang his
master's praises. He extolled the glorious promise of Newtake, and the great improvements already
visible thereon; he reflected not a little of Will's own flamboyant manner to the secret entertainment
of those gathered in the bar, and presently he drew down upon himself some censure.

Abraham Chown, the police inspector, first shook his head and prophesied speedy destruction
of all these hopes; and then Gaffer Lezzard criticised still more forcibly.

"All this big-mouthed talk's cracklin' of thorns under a potsherd," hesaid. "You an' him be
just two childern playin' at shop in the gutter, an' the gutter's wheer you'll find yourselves
'fore you think to. What do the man knaw? Nothin'."

"Blanchard's a far-seein' chap," answered Sam Bonus stoutly. "An' a gude master; an' us'll
stick together, fair or foul."

"You may think it, but wait," said a small man in the corner. Charles Coomstock, nephew of
the widow of that name already mentioned, was a wheelwright by trade and went lame, owing to
an accident with hot iron in youth.

"Ax Clem," continued Mr. Coomstock. "For all his cranky ways he knaws Blanchard better'n most
of us, an' I heard un size up the chap t'other day in a word. He said he hadn't wit enough
to keep his brains sweet."

"He'm a braave wan to talk," fired back Bonus. "Him! A poor luny as caan't scrape brass to
keep a wife on. Blanchard, or me either, could crack un in half like a dead stick."

"Not that that's anything for or against," declared Gaffer Lezzard. "Power of hand's nought
against brain."

"It gaws a tidy long way 'pon Dartymoor, however," declared Bonus. "An' Blanchard doan't set
no 'mazin' store on Hicks neither, if it comes to words. I heard un say awnly t'other forenoon
that the man was a weak saplin', allus grumblin', an' might be better for a gude hiding."

Now Charles Coomstock did not love his cousin Clement. Indeed, none of those who had, or imagined
they had, any shadow of right to a place in Mary Coomstock's will cared much for others similarly
situated; but the little wheelwright was by nature a spreader of rumours and reports--an intelligencer,
malignant from choice. He treasured this assertion, therefore, together with one or two others.
Sam, now at his third glass, felt his heart warm to Will. He would have fought with tongue
or fist on his behalf, and presently added to the mischief he had already done.

"To shaw 'e, neighbours, just the man he is, I may tell 'e that a larned piece like Martin
Grimbal ackshually comed all the way to Newtake not long since to ax advice of un. An' 'twas
on the identical matter of this same Hicks. Mr. Grimbal wanted to give un some work to do,
'bout a book or some such item; an' Will he ups and sez, 'Doan't,' just short an' straight
like that theer. 'Doan't,' he sez. 'Let un shaw what's in un first'; an' t'other nodded when
he said it."

Having now attested his regard for the master of Newtake, Sam jogged off. He was pleased with
himself, proud of having silenced more than one detractor, and as his little brain turned the
matter over, his lips parted in a grin.

Coomstock meanwhile had limped into the cottage where Clement lived with his mother. He did
not garble his news, for it needed no artistic touch; and, with nice sense of his perfect and
effective instrument, he realised the weapon was amply sharp enough without whetting, and employed
the story as it came into his hand. But Mr. Coomstock was a little surprised and disappointed
at his cousin's reserve and self-restraint. He had hoped for a hearty outburst of wrath and
the assurance of wide-spreading animosity, yet no such thing happened, and the talebearer presently
departed in some surprise. Mrs. Hicks, indeed, had shrilled forth a torrent of indignation
upon the sole subject equal to raising such an emotion in her breast, for Clem was her only
son. The man, however, took it calmly, or appeared to do so; and even when Charles Coomstock
was gone he refused to discuss the matter more.

But had his cousin, with Asmodeus-flight, beheld Clement during the subsequent hours which
he spent alone, it is possible that the wheelwright had felt amply repaid for his trouble.
Not until dawn stole grey along the village street; not until sparrows in the thatch above
him began their salutation to the morning; not until Chagford rookery had sent forth a harmonious
multitude to the hills and valleys did Clement's aching eyes find sleep. For hours he tossed
and turned, now trembling with rage, now prompted by some golden thread in the tangled mazes
of his mind to discredit the thing reported. Blanchard, as it seemed, had come deliberately
and maliciously between him and an opportunity to win work. He burnt to know what he should
do; and, like a flame of forked light against the sombre background of his passion, came the
thought of another who hated Blanchard too. Will's secret glowed and gleamed like the writing
on the wall; looking out, Hicks saw it stamped on the dark earth and across the starry night;
and he wished to God that the letters might so remain to be read by the world when it wakened.
Finally he slept and dreamed that he had been to the Red House, that he had spoken to John
Grimbal, and returned home again with a bag of gold.

When his mother came to call him he was lying half uncovered in a wild confusion of scattered
bed-clothes; and his arms and body were jerking as a dog's that dreams. She saw a sort of convulsion
pinch and pucker his face; then he made some inarticulate sounds--as it were a frantic negation;
and then the noise of his own cry awakened him. He looked wildly round and lifted his hands
as though he expected to find them full.

"Where is it? Where is it? The bag of money? I won't--I can't--Where is it, I say?"

"I wish I knawed, lovey. Dream-gawld, I'm afeared. You've bin lying cold, an' that do allus
breed bad thoughts in sleep. 'Tis late; I done breakfast an hour ago. An' Okehampton day, tu.
Coach'll be along in twenty minutes."

He sighed and dragged the clothes over himself.

"You'd best go to-day, mother. The ride will do you good, and I have plenty to fill my time
at home."

Mrs. Hicks brightened perceptibly before this prospect. She was a little, faded woman, with
a brown face and red-rimmed, weak eyes, washed by many years of sorrow to the palest nondescript
colour. She crept through the world with no ambition but to die out of the poorhouse, no prayer
but a petition that the parish might not bury her at the end, no joy save in her son. Life
at best was a dreary business for her, and an occasional trip to Okehampton represented about
the only brightness that ever crept into it. Now she bustled off full of excitement to get
the honey, and, having put on a withered bonnet and black shawl, presently stood and waited
for the omnibus.

Her son dwelt with his thoughts that day, and for him there was no peace or pleasure. Full
twenty times he determined to visit Newtake at once and have it out with Will; but his infirmity
of purpose acted like a drag upon this resolution, and his pride also contributed a force against
it. Once he actually started, and climbed up Middledown to reach the Moor beyond; then he changed
his mind again as new fires of enmity swept through it. His wrongs rankled black and bitter;
and, faint under them, he presently turned and went home shivering though the day was hot.

CHAPTER VI

A SWARM OF BEES

Above Chagford rise those lofty outposts of Dartmoor, named respectively Nattadown and Middledown.
The first lies nearer to the village, and upon its side, beneath a fir wood which crowns one
spur, spread steep wastes of fern and furze. This spot was a favourite one with Clement Hicks,
and a fortnight after the incidents last related he sat there smoking his pipe, while his eyes
roved upon the scene subtended before him. The hill fell abruptly away, and near the bottom
glimmered whitewashed cots along a winding road. Still lower down extended marshy common land,
laced with twinkling watercourses and dotted with geese; while beyond, in many a rise and fall
and verdant undulation, the country rolled onwards through Teign valley and upwards towards
the Moor. The expanse seen from this lofty standpoint extended like a mighty map, here revealing
a patchwork of multicoloured fields, here exhibiting tracts of wild waste and wood, here beautifully
indicating by a misty line, seen across ascending planes of forest, the course of the distant
river, here revealing the glitter of remote waters damaskeened with gold. Little farms and
outlying habitations were scattered upon the land; and beyond them, rising steadily to the
sky-line, the regions of the Moor revealed their larger attributes, wider expanses, more savage
and abrupt configurations of barren heath and weathered tor. The day passed gradually from
gloom to brightness, and the distance, already bathed in light, gleamed out of a more sombre
setting, where the foreground still reflected the shadows of departing clouds, like a picture
of great sunshine framed in darkness. But the last vapours quickly vanished; the day grew very
hot and, as the sky indicated noon, all things beneath Clement's eyes were soaked in a splendour
of June sunlight. He watched a black thread lying across a meadow five miles away. First it
stretched barely visible athwart the distance green; in half an hour it thickened without apparent
means; within an hour it had absorbed an eighth part at least of the entire space. Though the
time was very unusual for tilling of land, Hicks knew that the combined operations of three
horses, a man, and a plough were responsible for this apparition, and he speculated as to how
many tremendous physical and spiritual affairs of life are thus wrought by agents not visible
to the beholder. Thus were his own thoughts twisted back to those speculations which now perpetually
haunted them like the incubus of a dream. What would Will Blanchard say if he woke some morning
to find his secret in John Grimbal's keeping? And, did any such thing happen, there must certainly
be a mystery about it; for Blanchard could no more prove how his enemy came to learn his secret
than might some urban stranger guess how the dark line grew without visible means on the arable
ground under Gidleigh.

From these dangerous thoughts he was roused by the sight of a woman struggling up the steep
hill towards him. The figure came slowly on, and moved with some difficulty. This much Hicks
noted, and then suddenly realised that he beheld his mother. She knew his haunt and doubtless
sought him now. Rising, therefore, he hastened to meet her and shorten her arduous climb. Mrs.
Hicks was breathless when Clement reached her, and paused a while, with her hand pressed to
her side, before she could speak. At length she addressed him, still panting between the syllables.

"My heart's a pit-pat! Hurry, hurry, for the Lard's sake! The bees be playin'[9] an' they'll
call Johnson if you ban't theer directly minute!"

[9] Playing = swarming.

Johnson, a thatcher, was the only other man in Chagford who shared any knowledge of apiarian
lore with Clement.

"Sorry you should have had the journey only for that, mother. 'Twas so unlikely a morning,
I never thought to hear of a swarm to-day. I'll start at once, and you go home quietly. You're
sadly out of breath. Where is it?"

"To the Red House--Mr. Grimbal's. It may lead to the handlin' of his hives for all us can say,
if you do the job vitty, as you 'm bound to."

"John Grimbal's!"

Hicks stood still as though this announcement had turned him into stone.

"Ess fay! Why do 'e stand glazin' like that? A chap rode out for 'e 'pon horseback; an' a bit
o' time be lost a'ready. They 'm swarmin' in the orchard, an' nobody knaws more 'n the dead
what to be at."

"I won't go. Let them get Johnson."

"'Won't go'! An' five shillin' hangin' to it, an' Lard knaws what more in time to come! 'Won't
go'! An' my poor legs throbbin' something cruel with climbin' for 'e!"

"I--I'm not going there--not to that man. I have reason."

"O my gude God!" burst out the old woman, "what'll 'e do next? An' me--as worked so hard to
find 'e--an' so auld as I am! Please, please, Clem, for your mother--please. Theer's bin so
little money in the house of late days, an' less to come. Doan't, if you love me, as I knaws
well you do, turn your back 'pon the scant work as falls in best o' times."

The man reflected with troubled eyes, and his mother took his arm and tried to pull him down
the hill.

"Is John Grimbal at home?" he asked.

"How shude I knaw? An' what matter if he is? Your business is with the bees, not him. An' you've
got no quarrel with him because that Blanchard have. After what Will done against you, you
needn't be so squeamish as to make his enemies yourn."

"My business is with the bees--as you say, mother," he answered slowly, repeating her words.

"Coourse 'tis! Who knaws a half of what you knaw 'bout 'em? That's my awn braave Clem! Why,
there might be a mort o' gude money for a man like you at the Red House!"

"I'll go. My business is with the bees. You walk along slowly, or sit down a while and get
your breath again. I'll hurry."

She praised him and blessed him, crying after him as he departed,--"You'll find all set out
for 'e--veil, an' gloves, an' a couple of bee-butts to your hand."

The man did not reply, but soon stumbled down the steep hill and vanished; then five-and-twenty
minutes later, with the implements of his trade, he stood at the gate of the Red House, entered,
and hastened along the newly planted avenue.

John Grimbal had not yet gone into residence, but he dwelt at present in his home farm hard
by; and from this direction he now appeared to meet the bee-keeper. The spectacle of Grimbal,
stern, grave, and older of manner than formerly, impressed Hicks not a little. In silence,
after the first salutation, they proceeded towards an adjacent orchard; and from here as they
approached arose an extravagant and savage din, as though a dozen baited dogs, each with a
tin kettle at his tail, were madly galloping down some stone-paved street, and hurtling one
against the other as they ran.

"They can stop that row," said Hicks. "'Tis an old-fashioned notion that it hurries swarming,
but I never found it do so."

"You know best, though beating on tin pots and cans at such a time's a custom as old as the hills."

"And vain as many others equally old. I have a different method to hurry swarming."

Now they passed over the snows of a million fallen petals, while yet good store of flowers
hung upon the trees. June basked in the heart of the orchard and a delicious green sweetness
and freshness marked the moment. Crimson and cream, all splashed with sunlight, here bloomed
against a sky of summer blue, here took a shade from the new-born leaves and a shadow from
branch and bough. To the eye, a mottled, dimpled glory of apple-blossom spread above grey trunks
and twisted branches, shone through deep vistas of the orchard, brightened all the distance;
while upon the ear, now growing and deepening, arose one sustained and musical susurration
of innumerable wings.

"You will be wise to stay here," said Hicks. He himself stopped a moment, opened his bag, put
on his veil and gloves, and tucked his trousers inside his stockings.

"Not I. I wish to see the hiving."

Twenty yards distant a play of light and glint and twinkle of many frantic bees converged upon
one spot, as stars numerically increase towards the heart of a cluster. The sky was full of
flying insects, and their wings sparkled brightly in the sun; though aloft, with only the blue
for background, they appeared as mere dark points filling the air in every direction. The swarm
hung at the very heart of a little glade. Here two ancient apple-trees stood apart, and from
one low bough, stretched at right angles to the parent stem, and not devoid of leaves and blossoms,
there depended a grey-brown mass from which a twinkling, flashing fire leaped forth as from
gems bedded in the matrix. Each transparent wing added to the dazzle under direct sunlight;
the whole agglomeration of life was in form like a bunch of grapes, and where it thinned away
to a point the bees dropped off by their own weight into the grass below, then rose again and
either flew aloft in wide and circling flight or rushed headlong upon the swarm once more.
Across the iridescent cluster passed a gleam and glow of peacock and iris, opal and mother-of-pearl;
while from its heart ascended a deep murmur, telling of tremendous and accumulated energy suddenly
launched into this peaceful glade of apple-blossom and ambient green. The frenzy of the moment
held all that little laborious people. There was none of the concerted action to be observed
at warping, or simultaneous motion of birds in air and fishes in water; but each unit of the
shining army dashed on its own erratic orbit, flying and circling, rushing hither and thither,
and sooner or later returning to join the queen upon the bough.

The glory of the moment dominated one and all. It was their hour--a brief, mad ecstasy in short
lives of ceaseless toil. To-day they desisted from their labours, and the wild-flowers of the
waste places, and the old-world flowers in cottage gardens were alike forgotten. Yet their
year had already seen much work and would see more. Sweet pollen from many a bluebell and anemone
was stored and sealed for a generation unborn; the asphodels and violets, the velvet wallflower
and yellow crocuses had already yielded treasure; and now new honey jewels were trembling in
the trumpets of the honeysuckle, at the heart of the wild rose, within the deep cups of the
candid and orange lilies, amid the fairy caps of columbines, and the petals of clove-pinks.
There the bees now living laboured, and those that followed would find their sweets in the
clover,--scarlet and purple and white,--in the foxgloves, in the upland deserts of the heather
with their oases of euphrasy and sweet wild thyme.

"Is it a true swarm or a cast?" inquired John Grimbal.

"A swarm, without much question, though it dawned an unlikely day for an old queen to leave
the hive. Still, the weather came over splendid enough by noon, and they knew it was going
to. Where are your butts? You see, young maiden queens go further afield than old ones. The
latter take but a short flight for choice."

"There they are," said Grimbal, pointing to a row of thatched hives not far off. "So that should
be an old queen, by your showing. Is she there?"

"I fancy so by the look of them. If the queen doesn't join, the bees break up, of course, and
go back to the butt. But I've brought a couple of queens with me."

"I've seen a good few drones about the board lately."

"Sure sign of swarming at this season. Inside, if you could look, you'd find plenty of queen
cells, and some capped over. You'd come across a murder or two as well. The old queens make
short work of the young ones sometimes."

"Woman-like."

Hicks admitted the criticism was just. Then, being now upon his own ground, he continued to
talk, and talk well, until he won a surly compliment from his employer.

"You're a bee-master, in truth! Nobody'll deny you that."

Clement laughed rather bitterly.

"Yes, a king of bees. Not a great kingdom for man to rule."

The other studied his dark, unhappy face. Trouble had quickened Grimbal's own perceptions,
and made him a more accurate judge of sorrow when he saw it than of yore.

"You've tried to do greater things and failed, perhaps," he said.

"Why, perhaps I have. A man's a hive himself, I've thought sometimes--a hive of swarming, seething
thoughts and experiences and passions, that come and go as easily as any bees, and store the
heart and brain."

"Not with honey, I'll swear."

"No--gall mostly."

"And every hive's got a queen bee too, for that matter," said Grimbal, rather pleased at his
wit responsible for the image.

"Yes; and the queens take each other's places quick enough, for we're fickle brutes."

"A strange swarm we hive in our hearts, God knows."

"And it eats out our hearts for our pains."

"You've found out that, have you?" asked John curiously.

"Long ago."

"Everybody does, sooner or later."

There was a pause. Overhead the multitude dwindled while the great glimmering cluster on the
tree correspondingly increased, and the fierce humming of the bees was like the sound of a
fire. Clement feared nothing, but he had seen few face a hiving without some distrust. The
man beside him, however, stood with his hands in his pockets, indifferent and quite unprotected.

"You will be wiser to stand farther away, Mr. Grimbal. You're unlikely to come off scot-free
if you keep so close."

"What do I care? I've been stung by worse than insects."

"And I also," answered Clement, with such evident passion that the other grew a little interested.
He had evidently pricked a sore point in this moody creature.

"Was it a woman stung you?"

"No, no; don't heed me."

Clement was on guard over himself again. "Your business is with bees"--his mother's words echoed
in his mind to the pulsing monotone of the swarm. He tried to change the subject, sent for
a pail of water, and drew a large syringe from his bag, though the circumstances really rendered
this unnecessary. But John Grimbal, always finding a sort of pleasure in his own torment, took
occasion to cross-question Clement.

"I suppose I'm laughed at still in Chagford, am I not? Not that it matters to me."

"I don't think so; an object of envy, rather, for good wives are easier to get than great riches."

"That's your opinion, is it? I'm not so sure. Are you married?"

"No."

"Going to be, I'll wager, if you think good wives can be picked off blackberry bushes."

"I don't say that at all. But I am going to be married certainly. I'm fortunate and unfortunate.
I've won a prize, but--well, honey's cheap. I must wait."

"D' you trust her? Is waiting so easy?"

"Yes, I trust her, as I trust the sun to swing up out of the east to-morrow, to set in the
west to-night. She's the only being of my own breed I do trust. As for the other question,
no--waiting isn't easy."

"Nor yet wise. I shouldn't wait. Tell me who she is. Women interest me, and the taking of 'em
in marriage."

Hicks hesitated. Here he was drifting helpless under this man's hard eyes--helpless and yet
not unwilling. He told himself that he was safe enough and could put a stop on his mouth when
he pleased. Besides, John Grimbal was not only unaware that the bee-keeper knew anything against
Blanchard, but had yet to learn that anybody else did,--that there even existed facts unfavourable
to him. Something, however, told Hicks that mention of the common enemy would result from this
present meeting, and the other's last word brought the danger, if danger it might be, a step
nearer. Clement hesitated before replying to the question; then he answered it.

"Chris Blanchard," he said shortly, "though that won't interest you."

"But it does--a good deal. I've wondered, some time, why I didn't hear my own brother was going
to marry her. He got struck all of a heap there, to my certain knowledge. However, he 's escaped.
The Lord be good to you, and I take my advice to marry back again. Think twice, if she's made
of the same stuff as her brother."

"No, by God! Is the moon made of the same stuff as the marsh lights?"

Concentrated bitterness rang in the words, and a man much less acute than Grimbal had guessed
he stood before an enemy of Will. John saw the bee-keeper start at this crucial moment; he
observed that Hicks had said a thing he much regretted and uttered what he now wished unspoken.
But the confession was torn bare and laid out naked under Grimbal's eyes, and he knew that
another man besides himself hated Will. The discovery made his face grow redder than usual.
He pulled at his great moustache and thrust it between his teeth and gnawed it. But he contrived
to hide the emotion in his mind from Clement Hicks, and the other did not suspect, though he
regretted his own passion. Grimbals next words further disarmed him. He appeared to know nothing
whatever about Will, though his successful rival interested him still.

"They call the man Jack-o'-Lantern, don't they? Why?"

"I can't tell you. It may be, though, that he is erratic and uncertain in his ways. You cannot
predict what he will do next."

"That's nothing against him. He's farming on the Moor now, isn't he?"

"Yes."

"Where did he come from when he dropped out of the clouds to marry Phoebe Lyddon?"

The question was not asked with the least idea of its enormous significance. Grimbal had no
notion that any mystery hung over that autumn time during which he made love to Phoebe and
Will was absent from Chagford. He doubted not that for the asking he could learn how Will had
occupied himself; but the subject did not interest him, and he never dreamed the period held
a secret. The sudden consternation bred in Hicks by this question astounded him not a little.
Indeed, each man amazed the other, Grimbal by his question, Hicks by the attitude which he
assumed before it.

"I'm sure I haven't the least idea," he answered; but his voice and manner had already told
Grimbal all he cared to learn at the moment; and that was more than his wildest hopes had even
risen to. He saw in the other's face a hidden thing, and by his demeanour that it was an important
one. Indeed, the bee-keeper's hesitation and evident alarm before this chance question proclaimed
the secret vital. For the present, and before Clement's evident alarm, Grimbal dismissed the
matter lightly; but he chose to say a few more words upon it, for the express purpose of setting
Hicks again at his ease.

"You don't like your future brother-in-law?"

"Yes, yes, I do. We've been friends all our lives--all our lives. I like him well, and am going
to marry his sister--only I see his faults, and he sees mine--that's all."

"Take my advice and shut your eyes to his faults. That's the best way if you are marrying into
his family. I've got cause to think ill enough of the scamp, as you know and everybody knows;
but life's too short for remembering ill turns."

A weight rolled off Clement's heart. For a moment he had feared that the man knew something;
but now he began to suspect Grimbal's question to be what in reality it was--casual interrogation,
without any shadow of knowledge behind it. Hicks therefore breathed again and trusted that
his own emotion had not been very apparent. Then, taking the water, he shot a thin shower into
the air, an operation often employed to hasten swarming, and possibly calculated to alarm the
bees into apprehension of rain.

"Do wasps ever get into the hives?" asked Mr. Grimbal abruptly.

"Aye, they do; and wax-moths and ants, and even mice. These things eat the honey and riddle
and ruin the comb. Then birds eat the bees, and spiders catch them. Honey-bees do nothing but
good that I can see, yet Nature 's pleased to fill the world with their enemies. Queen and
drone and the poor unsexed workers--all have their troubles; and so has the little world of
the hive. Yet during the few weeks of a bee's life he does an amount of work beyond imagination
to guess at."

"And still finds time to steal from the hives of his fellows?"

"Why, yes, if the sweets are exposed and can be tasted for nothing. Most of us might turn robbers
on the same terms. Now I can take them, and a splendid swarm, too--finest I've seen this year."

The business of getting the glittering bunch of bees into a hive was then proceeded with, and
soon Clement had shaken the mass into a big straw butt, his performance being completely successful.
In less than half an hour all was done, and Hicks began to remove his veil and shake a bee
or two off the rim of his hat.

John Grimbal rubbed his cheek, where a bee had stung him under the eye, and regarded Hicks
thoughtfully.

"If you happen to want work at any time, it might be within my power to find you some here,"
he said, handing the bee-master five shillings. Clement thanked his employer and declared he
would not forget the offer; he then departed, and John Grimbal returned to his farm.

CHAPTER VII

AN OFFER OF MARRIAGE

Billy Blee, who has appeared thus far as a disinterested spectator of other people's affairs,
had yet his own active and personal interests in life. Them he pursued, at odd times, and in
odd ways, with admirable pertinacity; and as a crisis is now upon him and chance knits the
outcome of it into the main fabric of this narrative, Billy and his actions command attention.

Allusion has already been made, and that frequently, to one Widow Coomstock, whose attractions
of income, and the ancillary circumstance of an ample though elderly person, had won for her
certain admirers more ancient than herself. Once butt-woman, or sextoness, of Chagford Church,
the lady had dwelt alone, as Miss Mary Reed, for fifty-five years--not because opportunity
to change her state was denied her, but owing to the fact that experience of life rendered
her averse to all family responsibilities. Mary Reed had seen her sister, the present Mrs.
Hicks, take a husband, had watched the result of that step; and this, with a hundred parallel
instances of misery following on matrimony, had determined her against it. But when old Benjamin
Coomstock, the timber merchant and coal-dealer, became a widower, this ripe maiden, long known
to him, was approached before his wife's grave became ready for a stone. To Chagford's amazement
he so far bemeaned himself as to offer the sextoness his hand, and she accepted it. Then, left
a widow after two years with her husband, Mary Coomstock languished a while, and changed her
methods of life somewhat. The roomy dwelling-house of her late partner became her property
and a sufficient income went with it. Mr. Coomstock's business had been sold in his lifetime;
the money was invested, and its amount no man knew, though rumour, which usually magnifies
such matters, spoke of a very handsome figure; and Mrs. Coomstock's lavish manner of life lent
confirmation to the report. But though mundane affairs had thus progressed with her, the woman's
marriage was responsible for very grave mental and moral deterioration. Prosperity, and the
sudden exchange of a somewhat laborious life for the ease and comfort of independence, played
havoc with Widow Coomstock. She grew lax, gross in habit and mind, self-indulgent, and ill-tempered.
When her husband died her old friends lost sight of her, while only those who had reason to
hope for a reward still kept in touch with her, and indeed forced themselves upon her notice.
Everybody predicted she would take another husband; but, though it was now nearly eight years
since Mr. Coomstock's death, his widow still remained one. Gaffer Lezzard and Billy Blee had
long pursued her with varying advantage, and the latter, though his proposals were declined,
yet saw in each refusal an indication to encourage future hope.

Now, urged thereto by whispers that Mr. Lezzard had grown the richer by three hundred pounds
on the death of a younger brother in Australia, Billy determined upon another attack. He also
was worth something--less indeed than three hundred pounds; though, seeing that he had been
earning reasonably good wages for half a century, the fact argued but poor thrift in Mr. Blee.
Of course Gaffer Lezzard's alleged legacy could hardly be a sum to count with Mrs. Coomstock,
he told himself; yet his rival was a man of wide experience and an oily tongue: while, apart
from any question of opposition, he felt that another offer of marriage might now be made with
decorum, seeing that it was a full year since the last. Mr. Blee therefore begged for a half-holiday,
put on his broadcloth, blacked his boots, anointed his lion-monkey fringe and scanty locks
with pomatum, and set forth. Mrs. Coomstock's house stood on the hill rising into the village
from Chagford Bridge. A kitchen garden spread behind it; in front pale purple poppies had the
ill-kept garden to themselves.

As he approached, Mr. Blee felt a leaden weight about his newly polished boots, and a distinct
flutter at the heart, or in a less poetical portion of his frame.

"Same auld feeling," he reflected. "Gormed if I ban't gettin' sweaty 'fore the plaace comes
in sight! 'Tis just the sinkin' at the navel, like what I had when I smoked my first pipe,
five-and-forty years agone!"

The approach of another man steadied Billy, and on recognising him Mr. Blee forgot all about
his former emotions and gasped in the clutch of a new one. It was Mr. Lezzard, evidently under
some impulse of genial exhilaration. There hung an air of aggression about him, but, though
he moved like a conqueror, his gait was unsteady and his progress slow. He had wit to guess
Billy's errand, however, for he grinned, and leaning against the hedge waved his stick in the
air above his head.

"Aw, Jimmery! if it ban't Blee; an' prinked out for a weddin', tu, by the looks of it!"

"Not yourn, anyway," snapped back the suitor.

"Well, us caan't say 'zactly--world 's full o' novelties."

"Best pull yourself together, Gaffer, or bad-hearted folks might say you was bosky-eyed.[10]
That ban't no novelty anyway, but 't is early yet to be drunk--just three o'clock by the church."

[10] Bosky-eyed = intoxicated.

Mr. Blee marched on without waiting for a reply. He knew Lezzard to be more than seventy years
old and usually regarded the ancient man's rivalry with contempt; but he felt uneasy for a
few moments, until the front door of Mrs. Coomstock's dwelling was opened to him by the lady
herself.

"My stars! You? What a terrible coorious thing!" she said.

"Why for?"

"Come in the parlour. Theer! coorious ban't the word!"

She laughed, a silly laugh and loud. Then she shambled before him to the sitting-room, and
Billy, familiar enough with the apartment, noticed a bottle of gin in an unusual position upon
the table. The liquor stood, with two glasses and a jug of water, between the Coomstock family
Bible, on its green worsted mat, and a glass shade containing the stuffed carcass of a fox-terrier.
The animal was moth-eaten and its eyes had fallen out. It could be considered in no sense decorative;
but sentiment allowed the corpse this central position in a sorry scheme of adornment, for
the late timber merchant had loved it. Upon Mrs. Coomstock's parlour walls hung Biblical German
prints in frames of sickly yellow wood; along the window-ledge geraniums and begonias flourished,
though gardeners had wondered to see their luxuriance, for the windows were seldom opened.

"'It never rains but it pours,'" said Widow Coomstock. She giggled again and looked at Billy.
She was very fat, and the red of her face deepened to purple unevenly about the sides of her
nose. Her eyes were bright and black. She had opened a button or two at the top of her dress,
and her general appearance, from her grey hair to her slattern heels, was disordered. Her cap
had fallen off on to the ground, and Mr. Blee noticed that her parting was as a broad turnpike
road much tramped upon by Time. The room smelt stuffy beyond its wont and reeked not only of
spirits but tobacco. This Billy sniffed inquiringly, and Mrs. Coomstock observed the action.
"'Twas Lezzard," she said. "I like to see a man in comfort. You can smoke if you mind to. Coomstock
always done it, and a man's no man without, though a dirty habit wheer they doan't use a spittoon."

She smiled, but to herself, and was lost in thought a moment. He saw her eyes very bright and
her head wagging. Then she looked at him and laughed again.

"You'm a fine figure of a man, tu," she said, apropos of nothing in particular. But the newcomer
understood. He rumpled his hair and snorted and frowned at the empty glasses.

"Have a drop?" suggested Mrs. Coomstock; but Billy, of opinion that his love had already enjoyed
refreshment sufficient for the time, refused and answered her former remark.

"A fine figure?--yes, Mary Coomstock, though not so fine for a man as you for a woman. Still,
a warm-blooded chap an' younger than my years."

"I've got my share o' warm blood, tu, Billy."

It was apparent. Mrs. Coomstock's plump neck bulged in creases over the dirty scrap of white
linen that represented a collar, while her massive bust seemed bursting through her apparel.

"Coourse," said Mr. Blee, "an' your share, an' more 'n your share o' brains, tu. He had bad
luck--Coomstock--the worse fortune as ever fell to a Chaggyford man, I reckon."

"How do 'e come at that, then?"

"To get 'e, an' lose 'e again inside two year. That's ill luck if ever I seen it. Death's a
envious twoad. Two short year of you; an' then up comes a tumour on his neck unbeknawnst, an'
off he goes, like a spring lamb."

"An' so he did. I waked from sleep an' bid un rise, but theer weern't no more risin' for him
till the Judgment."

"Death's no courtier. He'll let a day-labourer go so peaceful an' butivul as a child full o'
milk goes to sleep; while he'll take a gert lord or dook, wi' lands an' moneys, an' strangle
un by inches, an' give un the hell of a twistin'. You caan't buy a easy death seemin'ly."

"A gude husband he was, but jealous," said Mrs. Coomstock, her thoughts busy among past years;
and Billy immediately fell in with this view.

"Then you'm well rid of un. Theer's as gude in the world alive any minute as ever was afore
or will be again."

"Let 'em stop in the world then. I doan't want 'em."

This sentiment amused the widow herself more than Billy. She laughed uproariously, raised her
glass to her lips unconsciously, found it empty, grew instantly grave upon the discovery, set
it down again, and sighed.

"It's a wicked world," she said. "Sure as men's in a plaace they brings trouble an' wickedness.
An' yet I've heard theer's more women than men on the airth when all's said."

"God A'mighty likes 'em best, I reckon," declared Mr. Blee.

"Not but what 't would be a lonesome plaace wi'out the lords of creation," conceded the widow.

"Ess fay, you 'm right theer; but the beauty of things is that none need n't be lonely, placed
same as you be."

"'Once bit twice shy,'" said Mrs. Coomstock. Then she laughed again. "I said them very words
to Lezzard not an hour since."

"An' what might he have answered?" inquired Billy without, however, showing particular interest
to know.

"He said he wasn't bit. His wife was a proper creature."

"Bah! second-hand gudes--that's what Lezzard be--a widow-man an' eighty if a day. A poor, coffin-ripe
auld blid, wi' wan leg in the graave any time this twenty year."

Mrs. Coomstock's frame heaved at this tremendous criticism. She gurgled and gazed at Billy
with her eyes watering and her mouth open.

"You say that! Eighty an' coffin-ripe!"

"Ban't no ontruth, neither. A man 's allus ready for his elm overcoat arter threescore an'
ten. I heard the noise of his breathin' paarts when he had brown kitty in the fall three years
ago, an' awnly thrawed it off thanks to the gracious gudeness of Miller Lyddon, who sent rich
stock for soup by my hand. But to hear un, you might have thought theer was a wapsies' nest
in the man's lungs."

"I doan't want to be nuss to a chap at my time of life, in coourse."

"No fay; 't is the man's paart to look arter his wife, if you ax me. I be a plain bachelor
as never thought of a female serious 'fore I seed you. An' I've got a heart in me, tu. Ban't
no auld, rubbishy, worn-out thing, neither, but a tough, love-tight heart--at least so 't was
till I seed you in your weeds eight year agone."

"Eight year a widow! An' so I have been. Well, Blee, you've got a powerful command of words,
anyways. That I'll grant you."

"'T is the gert subject, Mary."

He moved nearer and put down his hat and stick; she exhibited trepidation, not wholly assumed.
Then she helped herself to more spirits.

"A drop I must have to steady me. You men make a woman's heart go flutterin' all over her buzzom,
like a flea under her--"

She stopped and laughed, then drank. Presently setting down the glass again, she leered in
a manner frankly animal at Mr. Blee, and told him to say what he might have to say and be quick
about it. He fired a little at this invitation, licked his lips, cleared his throat, and cast
a nervous glance or two at the window. But nobody appeared; no thunder-visaged Lezzard frowned
over the geraniums. Gaffer indeed was sound asleep, half a mile off, upon one of those seats
set in the open air for the pleasure and convenience of wayfarers about the village. So Billy
rose, crossed to the large sofa whereon Mrs. Coomstock sat, plumped down boldly beside her
and endeavoured to get his arm round the wide central circumference of her person. She suffered
this courageous attempt without objection. Then Billy gently squeezed her, and she wriggled
and opened her mouth and shut her eyes.

"Say the word and do a wise thing," he urged. "Say the word, Mary, an' think o' me here as
master, a-keeping all your damn relations off by word of command."

She laughed.

"When I be gone you'll see some sour looks, I reckon."

"Nothing doan't matter then; 't is while you 'm here I'd protect 'e 'gainst 'em. Look, see!
ban't often I goes down on my knees, 'cause a man risin' in years, same as me, can pray to
God more dignified sittin'; but now I will." He slid gingerly down, and only a tremor showed
the stab his gallantry cost him.

"You 'm a masterful auld shaver, sure 'nough!" said Mrs. Coomstock, regarding Billy with a
look half fish like, half affectionate.

"Rise me up, then," he said. "Rise me up, an' do it quick. If you love me, as I see you do
by the faace of you, rise me up, Mary, an' say the word wance for all time. I'll be a gude
husband to 'e an' you'll bless the day you took me, though I sez it as shouldn't."

She allowed her fat left hand, with the late Mr. Coomstock's wedding-ring almost buried in
her third finger, to remain with Billy's; and by the aid of it and the sofa he now got on his
legs again. Then he sat down beside her once more and courageously set his yellow muzzle against
her red cheek. The widow remained passive under this caress, and Mr. Blee, having kissed her
thrice, rubbed his mouth and spoke.

"Theer! 'T is signed and sealed, an' I'll have no drawin' back now."

"But--but--Lezzard, Billy. I do like 'e--I caan't hide it from 'e, try as I will--but him--"

"I knawed he was t'other. I tell you, forget un. His marryin' days be awver. Dammy, the man's
'most chuckle headed wi' age! Let un go his way an' say his prayers 'gainst the trump o' God.
An' it'll take un his time to pass Peter when all 's done--a bad auld chap in his day. Not
that I'd soil your ears with it."

"He said much the same 'bout you. When you was at Drewsteignton, twenty year agone--"

"A lie--a wicked, strammin', gert lie, with no more truth to it than a auld song! He 'm a venomous
beast to call home such a thing arter all these years."

"If I did take 'e, you'd be a gude an' faithful husband, Billy, not a gad-about?"

"Cut my legs off if I go gaddin' further than to do your errands."

"An' you'll keep these here buzzin' parties off me? Cuss 'em! They make my life a burden."

"Doan't fear that. I'll larn 'em!"

"Theer 's awnly wan I can bide of the whole lot--an' that's my awn nephew, Clem Hicks. He'll
drink his drop o' liquor an' keep his mouth shut, an' listen to me a-talkin' as a young man
should. T'others are allus yelpin' out how fond they be of me, and how they'd go to the world's
end for me. I hate the sight of 'em."

"A time-servin' crew, Mary; an' Clement Hicks no better 'n the rest, mark my word, though your
sister's son. 'T is cupboard love wi' all. But money ban't nothin' to me. I've been well contented
with enough all my life, though 't is few can say with truth that enough satisfies 'em."

"Lezzard said money was nothin' to him neither, having plenty of his awn. 'T was my pusson,
not my pocket, as he'd falled in love with."

"Burnish it all! Theer 's a shameful speech! 'Your pusson'! Him! I'll tell you what Lezzard
is--just a damn evil disposition kep' in by skin an' bones--that's Lezzard. 'Your pusson'!"

"I'm afraid I've encouraged him a little. You've been so backward in mentioning the subject
of late. But I'm sure I didn't knaw as he'd got a evil disposition."

"Well, 't is so. An' 't is awnly your bigness of heart, as wouldn't hurt a beetle, makes you
speak kind of the boozy auld sweep. I'll soon shaw un wheer he's out if he thinks you 'm tinkering
arter him!"

"He couldn't bring an action for breach, or anything o' that, could he?"

"At his time of life! What Justice would give ear to un? An' the shame of it!"

"Perhaps he misunderstood. You men jump so at a conclusion."

"Leave that to me. I'll clear his brains double-quick; aye, an' make un jump for somethin'!"

"Then I suppose it's got to be. I'm yourn, Billy, an' theer needn't be any long waitin' neither.
To think of another weddin' an' another husband! Just a drop or I shall cry. It's such a supporting
thing to a lone female."

Whether Mrs. Coomstock meant marriage or Plymouth gin, Billy did not stop to inquire. He helped
her, filled Lezzard's empty glass for himself, and then, finding his future wife thick of speech,
bleared of eye, and evidently disposed to slumber, he departed and left her to sleep off her
varied emotions.

"I'll mighty soon change all that," thought Mr. Blee. "To note a fine woman in liquor 's the
frightfullest sight in all nature, so to say. Not but what with Lezzard a-pawin' of her 't
was enough to drive her to it."

That night the lover announced his triumph, whereon Phoebe congratulated him and Miller Lyddon
shook his head.

"'T is an awful experiment, Billy, at your age," he declared.

"Why, so 't is; but I've weighed the subject in my mind for years and years, an 't wasn't till
Mary Coomstock comed to be widowed that I thought I'd found the woman at last. 'T was lookin'
tremendous high, I knaw, but theer 't is; she'll have me. She 'm no young giglet neither, as
would lead me a devil's dance, but a pusson in full blooth with ripe mind."

"She drinks. I doan't want to hurt your feelings; but everybody says it is so," declared the
miller.

"What everybody sez, nobody did ought to believe," returned Mr. Blee stoutly. "She 'm a gude,
lonely sawl, as wants a man round the house to keep off her relations, same as us has a dog
to keep down varmints in general. Theer 's the Hickses, an' Chowns, an' Coomstocks all a-stickin'
up theer tails an' a-purrin' an' a-rubbin' theerselves against the door-posts of the plaace
like cats what smells feesh. I won't have none of it. I'll dwell along wi' she an' play a husband's
part, an' comfort the decline of her like a man, I warn 'e."

"Why, Mrs. Coomstock 's not so auld as all that, Billy," said Phoebe. "Chris has often told
me she's only sixty-two or three."

But he shook his head.

"Ban't a subject for a loving man to say much on, awnly truth 's truth. I seed it written in
the Coomstock Bible wan day. Fifty-five she were when she married first. Well, ban't in reason
she twald the naked truth 'bout it, an' who'd blame her on such a delicate point? No, I'd judge
her as near my awn age as possible; an' to speak truth, not so well preserved as what I be."

"How's Monks Barton gwaine to fare without 'e, Blee?" whined the miller.

"As to that, be gormed if I knaw how I'll fare wi'out the farm. But love--well, theer 't is.
Theer 's money to it, I knaw, but what do that signify? Nothin' to me. You'll see me frequent
as I ride here an' theer--horse, saddle, stirrups, an' all complete; though God He knaws wheer
my knees'll go when my boots be fixed in stirrups. But a man must use 'em if theer 's the dignity
of money to be kept up. 'T is just wan of them oncomfortable things riches brings with it."

While Miller Lyddon still argued with Billy against the step he now designed, there arrived
from Chagford the stout Mr. Chappie, with his mouth full of news.

"More weddin's," he said. "I comed down-long to tell 'e, lest you shouldn't knaw till to-morrow
an' so fall behind the times. Widow Coomstock 's thrawed up the sponge and gived herself to
that importuneous auld Lezzard. To think o' such a Methuselah as him--aulder than the century--fillin'
the eye o' that full-bodied--"

"It's a black lie--blacker 'n hell--an' if't was anybody but you brought the news I'd hit un
awver the jaw!" burst out Mr. Blee, in a fury.

"He tawld me hisself. He's tellin' everybody hisself. It comed to a climax to-day. The auld
bird's hoppin' all awver the village so proud as a jackdaw as have stole a shiny button. He'm
bustin' wi' it in fact."

"I'll bust un! An' his news, tu. An' you can say, when you'm axed, 't is the foulest lie ever
falled out of wicked lips."

Billy now took his hat and stick from their corner and marched to the door without more words.

"No violence, mind now, no violence," begged Mr. Lyddon. "This love-making 's like to wreck
the end of my life, wan way or another, yet. 'T is bad enough with the young; but when it comes
to auld, bald-headed fules like you an' Lezzard--"

"As to violence, I wouldn't touch un wi' the end of a dung-fork--I wouldn't. But I'm gwaine
to lay his lie wance an' for all. I be off to parson this instant moment. An' when my banns
of marriage be hollered out next Sunday marnin', then us'll knaw who 'm gwaine to marry Mother
Coomstock an' who ban't. I can work out my awn salvation wi' fear an' tremblin' so well as
any other man; an' you'll see what that God-forsaken auld piece looks like come Sunday when
he hears what's done an' caan't do nought but just swallow his gall an' chew 'pon it."

CHAPTER VIII

MR. BLEE FORGETS HIMSELF

The Rev. James Shorto-Champernowne made no difficulty about Billy's banns of marriage, although
he doubtless held a private opinion upon the wisdom of such a step, and also knew that Mrs.
Coomstock was now a very different woman from the sextoness of former days. He expressed a
hope, however, that Mr. Blee would make his future wife become a regular church-goer again
after the ceremony; and Billy took it upon himself to promise as much for her. There the matter
ended until the following Sunday, when a sensation, unparalleled in the archives of St. Michael's,
awaited the morning worshippers.

Under chiming of bells the customary congregation arrived, and a perceptible wave of sensation
swept from pew to pew at the appearance of more than one unfamiliar face. Of regular attendants
we may note Mrs. Blanchard and Chris, Martin Grimbal, Mr. Lyddon, and his daughter. Mr. Blee
usually sat towards the back of the church at a point immediately behind those benches devoted
to the boys. Here he kept perfect order among the lads, and had done so for many years. Occasionally
it became necessary to turn a youngster out of church, and Billy's procedure at such a time
was masterly; but of opinion to-day that he was a public character, he chose a more conspicuous
position, and accepted Mr. Lyddon's invitation to take a seat in the miller's own pew. He felt
he owed this prominence, not only to himself, but to Mrs. Coomstock. She, good soul, had been
somewhat evasive and indefinite in her manner since accepting Billy, and her condition of nerves
on Sunday morning proved such that she found herself quite unable to attend the house of prayer,
although she had promised to do so. She sent her two servants, however, and, spending the time
in private between spirtual and spirituous consolations of Bible and bottle, the widow soon
passed into a temporary exaltation ending in unconsciousness. Thus her maids found her on returning
from church.

Excitement within the holy edifice reached fever-heat when a most unwonted worshipper appeared
in the venerable shape of Mr. Lezzard. He was supported by his married daughter and his grandson.
They sought and found a very prominent position under the lectern, and it was immediately apparent
that no mere conventional attendance for the purpose of praising their Maker had drawn Mr.
Lezzard and his relations. Indeed he had long been of the Baptist party, though it derived
but little lustre from him. Much whispering passed among the trio. Then his daughter, having
found the place she sought in a prayer-book, handed it to Mr. Lezzard, and he made a big cross
in pencil upon the page and bent the volume backwards so that its binding cracked very audibly.
Gaffer then looked about him with a boldness he was far from feeling; but the spectacle of
Mr. Blee, hard by, fortified his spirit. He glared across the aisle and Billy glared back.

Then the bells stopped, the organ droned, and there came a clatter of iron nails on the tiled
floor. Boys and men proceeded to the choir stalls and Mr. Shorto-Champernowne fluttered behind,
with his sermon in his hand. Like a stately galleon of the olden time he swept along the aisle,
then reached his place, cast one keen glance over the assembled congregation, and slowly sinking
upon his hassock enveloped his face and whiskers in snowy lawn and prayed a while.

The service began and that critical moment after the second lesson was reached with dreadful
celerity. Doctor Parsons, having read a chapter from the New Testament, which he emerged from
the congregation to do, and which he did ill, though he prided himself upon his elocution,
returned to his seat as the Vicar rose, adjusted his double eyeglasses and gave out a notice
as follows:

"I publish the banns of marriage between William Blee, Bachelor, and Mary Coomstock, Widow,
both of this parish.

There was a momentary pause. Then, nudged by his daughter, who had grown very pale, Gaffer
Lezzard rose. His head shook and he presented the appearance of a man upon the verge of palsy.
He held up his hand, struggled with his vocal organs and at last exploded these words, sudden,
tremulous, and shrill:

"I deny it an' I defy it! The wummon be mine!"

Mr. Lezzard succumbed instantly after this effort. Indeed, he went down as though shot through
the head. He wagged and gasped and whispered to his grandson,--

"Wheer's the brandy to?"

Whereupon this boy produced a medicine bottle half full of spirits, and his grandfather, with
shaking fingers, removed the cork and drank the contents. Meantime the Vicar had begun to speak;
but he suffered another interruption. Billy, tearing himself from the miller's restraining
hand, leapt to his feet, literally shaking with rage. He was dead to his position, oblivious
of every fact save that his banns of marriage had been forbidden before the assembled Christians
of Chagford. He had waited to find a wife until he was sixty years old--for this!

"You--you to do it! You to get up afore this rally o' gentlefolks an' forbid my holy banns,
you wrinkled, crinkled, baggering auld lizard! Gormed if I doan't wring your--"

"Silence in the house of God!" thundered Mr. Shorto-Champernowne, with tones so resonant that
they woke rafter echoes the organ itself had never roused. "Silence, and cease this sacrilegious
brawling, or the consequences will be unutterably serious! Let those involved," he concluded
more calmly, "appear before me in the vestry after divine service is at an end."

Having frowned, in a very tragic manner, both on Mr. Blee and Mr. Lezzard, the Vicar proceeded
with the service; but though Gaffer remained in his place Billy did not. He rose, jammed on
his hat, glared at everybody, and assumed an expression curiously similar to that of a stone
demon which grinned from the groining of two arches immediately above him. He then departed,
growling to himself and shaking his fists, in another awful silence; for the Vicar ceased when
he rose, and not until Billy disappeared and his footfall was heard no more did the angry clergyman
proceed.

A buzz and hubbub, mostly of laughter, ascended when presently Mr. Shorto-Champernowne's parishioners
returned to the air; and any chance spectator beholding them had certainly judged he stood
before an audience now dismissed from a theatre rather than the congregation of a church.

"Glad Will weern't theer, I'm sure," said Mrs. Blanchard. "He'd 'a' laughed out loud an' made
bad worse. Chris did as 't was, awnly parson's roarin' luckily drowned it. And Mr. Martin Grimbal,
whose eye I catched, was put to it to help smilin'."

"Ban't often he laughs, anyway," said Phoebe, who walked homewards with her father and the
Blanchards; whereon Chris, from being in a boisterous vein of merriment, grew grave. Together
all returned to the valley. Will was due in half an hour from Newtake, and Phoebe, as a special
favour, had been permitted to dine at Mrs. Blanchard's cottage with her husband and his family.
Clement Hicks had also promised to be of the party; but that was before the trouble of the
previous week, and Chris knew he would not come.

Meantime, Gaffer Lezzard, supported by two generations of his family, explained his reasons
for objecting to Mr. Blee's proposed marriage.

"Mrs. Coomstock be engaged, right and reg'lar, to me," he declared. "She'd gived me her word
'fore ever Blee axed her. I seed her essterday, to hear final 'pon the subjec', an' she tawld
me straight, bein' sober as you at the time, as 't was me she wanted an' meant for to have.
She was excited t' other day an' not mistress of herself ezacally; an' the crafty twoad took
advantage of it, an' jawed, an' made her drink an' drink till her didn't knaw what her was
sayin' or doin'. But she'm mine, an' she'll tell 'e same as what I do; so theer's an end on 't."

"I'll see Mrs. Coomstock," said the Vicar. "I, myself will visit her to-morrow."

"Canst punish this man for tryin' to taake her from me?"

"Permit yourself no mean desires in the direction of revenge. For the present I decline to
say more upon the subject. If it were possible to punish, and I am not prepared to say it is
not, it would be for brawling in the house of God. After an experience extending over forty
years, I may declare that I never saw any such disreputable and horrifying spectacle."

So the Lezzard family withdrew and, on the following day, Mrs. Coomstock passed through most
painful experiences.

To the clergyman, with many sighs and tears, she explained that Mr. Lezzard's character had
been maligned by Mr. Blee, that before the younger veteran she had almost feared for her life,
and been driven to accept him out of sheer terror at his importunity. But when facts came to
her ears afterwards, she found that Mr. Lezzard was in reality all he had declared himself
to be, and therefore returned to him, threw over Mr. Blee, and begged the other to forbid the
banns, if as she secretly learnt, though not from Billy himself, they were to be called on
that Sunday. The poor woman's ears tingled under Mr. Shorto-Champernowne's sonorous reproof;
but he departed at last, and by the time that Billy called, during the same day, she had imbibed
Dutch courage sufficient to face him and tell him she had changed her mind. She had erred--she
confessed it. She had been far from well at the time and, upon reconsideration of the proposal,
had felt she would never be able to make Mr. Blee happy, or enjoy happiness with him.

As a matter of fact, Mrs. Coomstock had accepted both suitors on one and the same afternoon.
First Gaffer, who had made repeated but rather vague allusion to a sum of three hundred pounds
in ready money, was taken definitely; while upon his departure, the widow, only dimly conscious
of what was settled with her former admirer, said, "Yes" to Billy in his turn. Had a third
suitor called on that event-ful afternoon, it is quite possible Mrs. Coomstock would have accepted
him also.

The conversation with Mr. Blee was of short duration, and ended by Billy calling down a comprehensive
curse on the faithless one and returning to Monks Barton. He had attached little importance
to Lezzard's public protest, upon subsequent consideration and after the first shock of hearing
it; but there was no possibility of doubting what he now learned from Mrs. Coomstock's own
lips. That she had in reality changed her mind appeared only too certain.

So he went home again in the last extremity of fury, and Phoebe, who was alone at the time,
found herself swept by the hurricane of his wrath. He entered snorting and puffing, flung his
hat on the settle, his stick into the corner; then, dropping into a seat by the fire, he began
taking off his gaiters with much snuffling and mumbling and repeated inarticulate explosions
of breath. This cat-like splutter always indicated deep feeling in Mr. Blee, and Phoebe asked
with concern what was the matter now.

"Matter? Tchut--Tchut--Theer ban't no God--that's what's the matter!"

"Billy! How can you?"

"She'm gwaine to marry t'other, arter all! From her awn lips I've heard it! That's what I get
for being a church member from the womb! That's my reward! God, indeed! Be them the ways o'
a plain-dealin' God, who knaws what's doin' in human hearts? No fay! Bunkum an' rot! I'll never
lift my voice in hymn nor psalm no more, nor pray a line o' prayer again. Who be I to be treated
like that? Drunken auld cat! I cussed her--I cussed her! Wouldn't marry her now if she axed
wi' her mouth in the dirt. Wheer's justice to? Tell me that. Me in church, keepin' order 'mong
the damn boys generation arter generation, and him never inside the door since he buried his
wife. An' parson siding wi' un, I'll wager. Mother Coomstock 'll give un hell's delights, that's
wan gude thought. A precious pair of 'em! Tchut! Gar!"

"I doan't really think you could have loved Mrs. Coomstock overmuch, Billy, if you can talk
so ugly an' crooked 'bout her," said Phoebe.

"I did, I tell 'e--for years an' years. I went down on my knees to the bitch--I wish I hadn't;
I'll be sorry for that to my dying day. I kissed her, tu,--s' elp me, I did. You mightn't think
it, but I did--a faace like a frost-bitten beetroot, as 't is!"

"Doan't 'e, please, say such horrible things. You must be wise about it. You see, they say
Mr. Lezzard has more money than you. At least, so Mrs. Coomstock told her nephew, Clement Hicks.
Every one of her relations is savage about it."

"Well they may be. Why doan't they lock her up? If she ban't mad, nobody ever was. 'Money'!
Lezzard! Lying auld--auld--Tchut! Not money enough to pay for a graave to hide his rotten bones,
I lay. Oh, 't is enough to--theer, what 's the use of talkin'? Tchut--Tchut!"

At this point Phoebe, fearing even greater extravagances in Mr. Blee's language, left him to
consider his misfortunes alone. Long he continued in the profoundest indignation, and it was
not until Miller Lyddon returned, heard the news, and heartily congratulated Billy on a merciful
escape, that the old man grew a little calmer under his disappointment, and moderated the bitterness
and profanity of his remarks.

CHAPTER IX

A DIFFERENCE WITH THE DUCHY

Newtake Farm, by reason of Will's recent occupancy, could offer no very considerable return
during his first year as tenant; but that he understood and accepted, and the tribulation which
now fell upon him was of his own making. To begin with, Sam Bonus vanished from the scene.
On learning, soon after the event, that Bonus had discussed Hicks and himself at Chagford,
and detailed his private conversation with Martin Grimbal, Blanchard, in a fury, swept off
to the loft where his man slept, roused him from rest, threw down the balance of his wages,
and dismissed him on the spot. He would hear no word in explanation, and having administered
a passionate rebuke, departed as he had come, like a whirlwind. Sam, smarting under this injustice,
found the devil wake in him through that sleepless night, and had there stood rick or stack
within reach of revenge, he might have dealt his master a return blow before morning. As usual,
after the lapse of hours, Will cooled down, modified his first fiery indignation, and determined,
yet without changing his mind, to give Bonus an opportunity of explaining the thing he had
done. Chris had brought the news from Clement himself, and Will, knowing that his personal
relations with Clement were already strained, felt that in justice to his servant he must be
heard upon the question. But, when he sought Sam Bonus, though still the dawn was only grey,
he found the world fuller for him by another enemy, for the man had taken him at his word and
departed. During that day and the next Will made some effort to see Bonus, but nothing came
of it, so, dismissing the matter from his mind, he hired a new labourer--one Teddy Chown, son
of Abraham Chown, the Inspector of Police--and pursued his way.

Then his unbounded energy led him into difficulties of a graver sort. Will had long cast covetous
eyes on a tract of moorland immediately adjoining Newtake, and there being little to do at
the moment, he conceived the adventurous design of reclaiming it. The patch was an acre and
a half in extent--a beggarly, barren region, where the heather thinned away and the black earth
shone with water and disintegrated granite. Quartz particles glimmered over it; at the centre
black pools of stagnant water marked an abandoned peat cutting; any spot less calculated to
attract an agricultural eye would have been hard to imagine; but Blanchard set to work, began
to fill the greedy quag in the midst with tons of soil, and soon caused the place to look business-like--at
least in his own estimation. As for the Duchy, he did not trouble himself. The Duchy itself
was always reclaiming land without considering the rights and wrongs of the discontented Venville
tenants, and Will knew of many a "newtake" besides this he contemplated. Indeed, had not the
whole farm, of which he was now master, been rescued from the Moor in time past? He worked
hard, therefore, and his new assistant, though not a Bonus, proved stout and active. Chris,
who still dwelt with her brother, was sworn to secrecy respecting Will's venture; and so lonely
a region did the farm occupy that not until he had put a good month of work into the adjacent
waste were any of those in authority aware of the young farmer's performance.

A day came when the new land was cleaned, partly ploughed, and wholly surrounded by a fence
of split stumps, presently to be connected by wires. At these Chown was working, while Will
had just arrived with a load of earth to add to the many tons already poured upon that hungry
central patch. He held the tailboard of the cart in his hand and was about to remove it; when,
looking up, his heart fluttered a moment despite his sturdy consciousness of right. On the
moor above him rode grey old Vogwell, the Duchy's man. His long beard fluttered in the wind,
and Will heard the thud of his horse's hoofs as he cantered quickly to the scene, passed between
two of the stakes, and drew up alongside Blanchard.

"Marnin', Mr. Vogwell! Fine weather, to be sure, an' gude for the peat next month; but bad
for roots, an' no mistake. Will 'e have a drink?"

Mr. Vogwell gazed sternly about him, then fixed his little bright eyes on the culprit.

"What do this mean, Will Blanchard?"

"Well, why not? Duchy steals all the gude land from Venwell men; why for shouldn't us taake
a little of the bad? This here weern't no gude to man or mouse. Ban't 'nough green stuff for
a rabbit 'pon it. So I just thought I'd give it a lick an' a promise o' more later on."

"'A lick an' a promise'! You've wasted a month's work on it, to the least."

"Well, p'raps I have--though ban't wasted. Do 'e think, Mr. Vogwell, as the Duchy might be
disposed to give me a hand?"

Will generally tackled difficulties in this audacious fashion, and a laugh already began to
brighten his eye; but the other quenched it.

"You fool! You knawed you was doin' wrong better'n I can tell you--an' such a plaace! A babe
could see you 'm workin' awver living springs. You caan't fill un even now in the drouth, an'
come autumn an' rain 't will all be bog again."

"Nothing of the sort," flamed out Will, quite forgetting his recent assertion as to the poverty
of the place. "Do 'e think, you, as awnly rides awver the Moor, knaws more about soil than
I as works on it? 'Twill be gude proofy land bimebye--so good as any Princetown way, wheer
the prison men reclaim, an' wheer theer's grass this minute as carries a bullock to the acre.
First I'll plant rye, then swedes, then maybe more swedes, then barley; an', with the barley,
I'll sow the permanent grass to follow. That's gude rotation of crops for Dartymoor, as I knaw
an' you doan't; an' if the Duchy encloses the best to rob our things[11], why for shouldn't we--"

[11] Things = beasts; sheep and cattle.

"That'll do. I caan't bide here listenin' to your child's-talk all the marnin'. What Duchy
does an' doan't do is for higher 'n you or me to decide. If this was any man's work but yours
I'd tell Duchy this night; but bein' you, I'll keep mute. Awnly mind, when I comes this way
a fortnight hence, let me see these postes gone an' your plough an' cart t' other side that
wall. An' you'll thank me, when you've come to more sense, for stoppin' this wild-goose chase.
Now I'll have a drop o' cider, if it's all the same to you."

Will opened a stone jar which lay under his coat at hand, and answered as he poured cider into
a horn mug for Mr. Vogwell--

"Here's your drink; but I won't take your orders, so I tell 'e. Damn the Duchy, as steals moor
an' common wheer it pleases an' then grudges a man his toil."

"That's the spirit as'll land 'e in the poorhouse, Will Blanchard," said Mr. Vogwell calmly;
"and that's such a job as might send 'e to the County Asylum," he added, pointing to the operations
around him. "As to damning Duchy," he continued, "you might as well damn the sun or moon. They'd
care as little. Theer 'm some varmints so small that, though they bite 'e with all their might,
you never knaw it; an' so 't is wi' you an' Duchy. Mind now, a fortnight. Thank 'e--so gude
cider as ever I tasted; an' doan't 'e tear an' rage, my son. What's the use?"

"'Twould be use, though, if us all raged together."

"But you won't get none to follow. 'Tis all talk. Duchy haven't got no bones to break or sawl
to lose; an' moormen haven't got brains enough to do aught in the matter but jaw."

"An' all for a royal prince, as doan't knaw difference between yether an' fuzz, I lay," growled
Will. "Small blame to moormen for being radical-minded these days. Who wouldn't, treated same
as us?"

"Best not talk on such high subjects, Will Blanchard, or you might get in trouble. A fortnight,
mind. Gude marnin' to 'e."

The Duchy's man rode off and Will stood angry and irresolute. Then, seeing Mr. Vogwell was
still observing him, he ostentatiously turned to the cart and tipped up his load of earth.
But when the representative of power had disappeared--his horse and himself apparently sinking
into rather than behind a heather ridge--Will's energy died and his mood changed. He had fooled
himself about this enterprise until the present, but he could no longer do so. Now he sat down
on the earth he had brought, let his horse drag the cart after it, as it wandered in search
of some green thing, and suffered a storm of futile indignation to darken his spirit.

Blanchard's unseasoned mind had, in truth, scarcely reached the second milestone upon the road
of man's experience. Some arrive early at the mental standpoint where the five senses meet
and merge in that sixth or common sense, which may be defined as an integral of the others,
and which is manifested by those who possess it in a just application of all the experience
won from life. But of common sense Will had none. He could understand laziness and wickedness
being made to suffer; he could read Nature's more self-evident lessons blazoned across every
meadow, displayed in every living organism--that error is instantly punished, that poor food
starves the best seed, that too much water is as bad as too little, that the race is to the
strong, and so forth; but he could not understand why hard work should go unrewarded, why good
intentions should breed bad results, why the effect of energy, self-denial, right ambitions,
and other excellent qualities is governed by chance; why the prizes in the great lottery fall
to the wise, not to the well-meaning. He knew himself for a hard worker and a man who accomplished,
in all honesty, the best within his power. What his hand found to do he did with his might;
and the fact that his head, as often as not, prompted his hand to the wrong thing escaped him.
He regarded his life as exemplary, felt that he was doing all that might in reason be demanded,
and confidently looked towards Providence to do the rest. To find Providence unwilling to help
him brought a wave of riotous indignation through his mind on each occasion of making that
discovery. These waves, sweeping at irregular intervals over Will, left the mark of their high
tides, and his mind, now swinging like a pendulum before this last buffet dealt by Fate in
semblance of the Duchy's man, plunged him into a huge discontent with all things. He was ripe
for mischief and would have quarrelled with his shadow; but he did worse--he quarrelled with
his mother.

She visited him that afternoon, viewed his shattered scheme, and listened as Will poured the
great outrage upon her ear. Coming up at his express invitation to learn the secret, which
he had kept from her that her joy might be the greater, Mrs. Blanchard only arrived in time
to see his disappointment. She knew the Duchy for a bad enemy, and perhaps at the bottom of
her conservative heart felt no particular delight at the spectacle of Newtake enlarging its
borders. She therefore held that everything was for the best, and counselled patience; whereupon
her son, with a month's wasted toil staring him in the face, rebelled and took her unconcerned
demeanour ill. Damaris also brought a letter from Phoebe, and this added fuel to the flame.
Will dwelt upon his wife's absence bitterly.

"Job's self never suffered that, for I read 'bout what he went through awnly last night, for
somethin' to kill an hour in the evenin'. An' I won't suffer it. It's contrary to nature, an'
if Phoebe ban't here come winter I'll go down an' bring her, willy-nilly."

"Time'll pass soon enough, my son. Next summer will be here quick. Then her'll have grawin'
corn to look at and fine crops risin', an' more things feedin' on the Moor in sight of her
eyes. You see, upland farms do look a little thin to them who have lived all their time in
the fatness of the valleys."

"If I was bidin' in one of them stone roundy-poundies, with nothin' but a dog-kennel for a
home, she ought to be shoulder to shoulder wi' me. Did you leave my faither cause other people
didn't love un?"

"That was differ'nt. Theer s Miller Lyddon. I could much wish you seed more of him an' let
un come by a better 'pinion of 'e. 'T s awnly worldly wisdom, true; but--"

"I'm sick to death o' worldly wisdom! What's it done for me? I stand to work nine an' ten hour
a day, an' not wi'out my share o' worldly wisdom, neither. Then I'm played with an' left to
whistle, I ban't gwaine to think so much, I tell 'e. It awnly hurts a man's head, an' keeps
him wakin' o' nights. Life's guess-work, by the looks of it, an' a fule's so like to draw a
prize as the wisest."

"That's not the talk as'll make Newtake pay, Will. You 'm worse than poor Blee to Monks Barton.
He's gwaine round givin' out theer ban't no God 't all, 'cause Mrs. Coomstock took auld Lezzard
'stead of him."

"You may laugh if you like, mother. 'Tis the fashion to laugh at me seemin'ly. But I doan't
care. Awnly you'll be sorry some day, so sure as you sit in thicky chair. Now, as you've nothin'
but blame, best to go back home. I'll put your pony in the shafts. 'Twas a pity you corned
so far for so little."

He went off, his breast heaving, while the woman followed him with her eyes and smiled when
he was out of sight. She knew him so well, and already pictured her repentant son next Sunday.
Then Will would be at his mother's cottage, and cut the bit of beef at dinner, and fuss over
her comfort according to his custom.

She went into the farmyard and took the pony from him and led it back into the stall. Then
she returned to him and put her arm through his and spoke.

"Light your pipe, lovey, an' walk a li'l way along down to the stones on the hill, wheer you
was born. Your auld mother wants to talk to 'e."

CHAPTER X

CONNECTING LINKS

Spaces of time extending over rather more than a year may now be dismissed in a chapter.

Chris Blanchard, distracted between Will and her lover, stayed on at Newtake after the estrangement,
with a hope that she might succeed in healing the breach between them; but her importunity
failed of its good object, and there came an August night when she found her own position at
her brother's farm grow no longer tenable.

The blinds were up, and rays from the lamp shot a broad band of light into the farmyard, while
now and again great white moths struck soft blows against the closed window, then vanished
again into the night. Will smoked and Chris pleaded until a point, beyond which her brother's
patience could not go, was reached. Irritation grew and grew before her ceaseless entreaty
on Clement's behalf; for the thousandth time she begged him to write a letter of apology and
explanation of the trouble bred by Sam Bonus; and he, suddenly rising, smashed down his clay
pipe and swore by all his gods he would hear the name of Hicks mentioned in his house no more.
Thus challenged to choose between her lover and her brother, the girl did not hesitate. Something
of Will's own spirit informed her; she took him at his word and returned home next morning,
leaving him to manage his own household affairs henceforth as best he might.

Upon the way to Chagford Chris chanced to meet with Martin Grimbal, and, having long since
accepted his offer of friendship, she did not hesitate to tell him of her present sorrow and
invite his sympathy. From ignorance rather than selfishness did Chris take Martin literally
when he had hoped in the past they might remain friends, and their intercourse was always maintained
by her when chance put one in the other's way--at a cost to the man beyond her power to guess.

Now he walked beside her, and she explained how only a word was wanting between Will and Clement
which neither would speak. Hicks had forgiven Will, but he refused to visit Newtake until he
received an apology from the master of it; and Blanchard bore no ill-will to Clement, but declined
to apologise for the past. These facts Martin listened to, while the blood beat like a tide
within his temples, and a mist dimmed his eyes as the girl laid her brown hand upon his arm
now and again, to accentuate a point. At such moments the truth tightened upon his soul and
much distressed him.

The antiquary had abandoned any attempt to forget Chris, or cease from worshipping her with
all his heart and soul; but the emotion now muzzled and chained out of sight he held of nobler
composition than that earlier love which yearned for possession. Those dreary months that dragged
between the present and his first disappointment had served as foundations for new developments
of character in the man. He existed through a period of unutterable despair and loneliness;
then the fruits of bygone battles fought and won came to his aid, and long-past years of self-denial
and self-control fortified his spirit. The reasonableness of Martin Grimbal lifted him slowly
but steadily from the ashes of disappointment; even his natural humility helped him, and he
told himself he had no more than his desert. Presently, with efforts the very vigour of which
served as tonic to character, he began to wrestle at the granite again and resume his archaeologic
studies. Speaking in general terms, his mind was notably sweetened and widened by his experience;
and, resulting from his own failure to reach happiness, there awoke in him a charity and sympathy
for others, a fellow-feeling with humanity, remarkable in one whose enthusiasm for human nature
was not large, whose ruling passion, until the circumstance of love tinctured it, had led him
by ways which the bulk of men had pronounced arid and unsatisfying. Now this larger insight
was making a finer character of him and planting, even at the core of his professional pursuits,
something deeper than is generally to be found there. His experience, in fact, was telling
upon his work, and he began slowly to combine with the labour of the yard-measure and the pencil,
the spade and the camera, just thoughts on the subject of those human generations who ruled
the Moor aforetime, who lived and loved and laboured there full many a day before Saxon keel
first grated on British shingle.

To Chris did Martin listen attentively. Until the present time he had taken Will's advice and
made no offer of work to Clement; but now he determined to do so, although he knew this action
must mean speedy marriage for Chris. Love, that often enough can shake a lifetime of morality,
that can set ethics and right conduct and duty playing a devil's dance in the victim's soul,
that can change the practised customs of a man's life and send cherished opinions, accepted
beliefs, and approved dogmas spinning into chaos before its fiery onslaught--love did not thus
overpower Martin Grimbal. His old-fashioned mind was no armour against it, and in that the
passion proved true; religion appeared similarly powerless to influence him; yet now his extreme
humility, his natural sense of justice and the dimensions of his passion itself combined to
lead him by a lofty road. Chris desired another man, and Martin Grimbal, loving her to that
point where her perfect happiness dominated and, indeed, became his own, determined that his
love should bear fruit worthy of its object.

This kindly design was frustrated, however, and the antiquary himself denied power to achieve
the good action that he proposed, for on visiting Clement in person and inviting his aid in
the clerical portions of a considerable work on moorland antiquities, the poet refused to assist.

"You come too late," he said coldly. "I would not help you now if I could, Martin Grimbal.
Don't imagine pride or any such motive keeps me from doing so. The true reason you may guess."

"Indeed! I can do nothing of the sort. What reason is there against your accepting an offer
to do remunerative and intellectual work in your leisure hours--work that may last ten years
for all I can see to the contrary?"

"The reason is that you invited another man's judgment upon me, instead of taking your own.
Better follow Will Blanchard's advice still. Don't think I'm blind. It is Chris who has made
you do this."

"You're a very difficult man to deal with, really. Consider my suggestion, Hicks, and all it
might mean. I desire nothing but your welfare."

"Which is only to say you are offering me charity."

Martin looked at the other quietly, then took his hat and departed. At the door he said a last
word.

"I don't want to think this is final. You would be very useful to me, or I should not have
asked you to aid my labour. Let me hear from you within a week."

But Clement was firm in his folly; while, although they met on more than one occasion, and
John Grimbal repeated his offer of regular work, the bee-keeper refused that proposal, also.
He made some small sums out of the Red House hives, but would not undertake any regular daily
labour there. Clement's refusal of Martin resulted from his own weak pride and self-conscious
stupidity; but a more subtle tangle of conflicting motives was responsible for his action in
respect of the elder Grimbal's invitation. Some loyalty to the man whom he so cordially disliked
still inhabited his mind, and with it a very considerable distrust of himself. He partly suspected
the reason of John Grimbal's offer of work, and the possibility of sudden temptation provoking
from him utterance of words best left unsaid could not be ignored after his former experience
at the hiving of the swarm.

So he went his way and told nobody--not even Chris--of these opportunities and his action concerning
them. Such reticence made two women sad. Chris, after her conversation with Martin, doubted
not but that he would make some effort, and, hearing nothing as time passed, assumed he had
changed his mind; while Mrs. Hicks, who had greatly hoped that Clement's visit to the Red House
might result in regular employment, felt disappointed when no such thing occurred.

The union of Mr. Lezzard and Mrs. Coomstock was duly accomplished to a chorus of frantic expostulation
on the part of those interested in the widow's fortune. Mr. Shorto-Champernowne, having convinced
himself that the old woman was in earnest, could find no sufficient reason for doing otherwise
than he was asked, and finally united the couple. To Newton Abbot they went for their honeymoon,
and tribulation haunted them from the first. Mrs. Lezzard refused her husband permission to
inquire any particulars of her affairs from her lawyer--a young man who had succeeded Mr. Joel
Ford--while the Gaffer, on his side, parried all his lady's endeavours to learn more of the
small fortune concerning which he had spoken not seldom before marriage. Presently they returned
to Chagford, and life resolved itself into an unlovely thing for both of them. Time brought
no better understanding or mutual confidence; on the contrary, they never ceased from wrangling
over money and Mrs. Lezzard's increasing propensity towards drink. The old man suffered most,
and as his alleged three hundred pounds did not appear, being, indeed, a mere lover's effort
of imagination, his wife bitterly resented marriage under such false pretences, and was never
weary of protesting. Of her own affairs she refused to tell her husband anything, but as Mr.
Lezzard was found to possess no money at all, it became necessary to provide him with a bare
competence for the credit of the family. He did his best to win a little more regard and consideration,
in the hope that when his wife passed away the reward of devotion might be reaped; but she
never forgave him, expressed the conviction that she would outlive him by many years, and exhausted
her ingenuity to make the old man rue his bargain. Only one experience, and that repeated as
surely as Mr. Blee met Mr. Lezzard, was more trying to the latter than all the accumulated
misfortune of his sorry state--Gaffer's own miseries appeared absolutely trivial by comparison
with Mr. Blee's comments upon them.

With another year Blanchard and Hicks became in some sort reconciled, though the former friendship
was never renewed. The winter proved a severe one, and Will experienced a steady drain on his
capital, but he comforted himself in thoughts of the spring, watched his wheat dapple the dark
ground with green, and also foretold exceptional crops of hay when summer should return. The
great event of his wife's advent at Newtake occupied most of his reflections; while as for
Phoebe herself the matter was never out of her mind. She lived for the day in June that should
see her by her husband's side; but Miller Lyddon showed no knowledge of the significance of
Phoebe's twenty-first birthday; and when Will brought up the matter, upon an occasion of meeting
with his father-in-law, the miller deprecated any haste.

"Time enough--time enough," he said. "You doan't want no wife to Newtake these years to come,
while I do want a darter to home."

So Phoebe, albeit the course of operations was fully planned, forbore to tell her father anything,
and suffered the day to drift nearer and nearer without expressly indicating the event it was
to witness.

CHAPTER XI

TOGETHER

Though not free from various temporal problems that daily demanded solution, Will very readily
allowed his mind a holiday from all affairs of business during the fortnight that preceded
his wife's arrival at Newtake. What whitewash could do was done; a carpet, long since purchased
but not laid down till now, adorned the miniature parlour; while out of doors, becoming suddenly
conscious that not a blossom would greet Phoebe's eyes, Will set about the manufacture of a
flower-bed under the kitchen window, bound the plat with neat red tiles, and planted therein
half a dozen larkspurs--Phoebe's favourite flower--with other happy beauties of early summer.
The effort looked raw and unhappy, however, and as ill luck would have it, these various plants
did not take kindly to their changed life, and greeted Phoebe with hanging heads.

But the great morning came at last, and Will, rising, with the curious thought that he would
never sleep in the middle of his bed again, donned his best dark-brown velveteens and a new
pair of leathern gaiters, then walked out into the air, where Chown was milking the cows. The
day dawned as brightly as the events it heralded, and Will, knowing that his mother and Chris
would be early at Newtake, strolled out to meet them. Over against the farm rose moorland crowned
by stone, and from off their granite couches grey mists blushing to red now rose with lazy
deliberation and vanished under the sun's kiss. A vast, sweet, diamond-twinkling freshness
filled the Moor; blue shadows lay in the dewy coombs, and sun-fires gleamed along the heather
ridges. No heath-bell as yet had budded, but the flame of the whins splashed many undulations,
and the tender foliage of the whortleberry, where it grew on exposed granite, was nearly scarlet
and flashed jewel-bright in the rich texture of the waste. Will saw his cattle pass to their
haunts, sniffed the savour of them on the wind, and enjoyed the thought of being their possessor;
then his eyes turned to the valley and the road which wound upwards from it under great light.
A speck at length appeared three parts of a mile distant and away started Blauchard, springing
down the hillside to intercept it. His heart sang within him; here was a glorious day that
could never come again, and he meant to live it gloriously.

"Marnin', mother! Marnin', Chris! Let me get in between 'e. Breakfast will be most ready by
time we'm home. I knawed you d keep your word such a rare fashion day!"

Will soon sat between the two women, while Mrs. Blanchard's pony regulated its own pace and
three tongues chattered behind it. A dozen brown paper parcels occupied the body of the little
cart, for Damaris had insisted that the wedding feast should be of her providing. It was proposed
that Chris and her mother should spend the day at Newtake and depart after drinking tea; while
Phoebe was to arrive in a fly at one o'clock.

After breakfast Chris busied herself indoors and occupied her quick fingers in putting a dozen
finishing touches; while Mrs. Blanchard walked round the farm beside Will, viewed with outspoken
approval or secret distrust those evidences of success and failure spread about her, and passed
the abandoned attempt to reclaim land without a word or sign that she remembered. Will crowed
like a happy child; his mother poured advice into his unheeding ears; and then a cart lumbered
up with a great surprise in it. True to her intention Mrs. Blanchard had chosen the day of
Phoebe 's arrival to send the old piano to Newtake, and now it was triumphantly trundled into
the parlour, while Will protested and admired. It added not a little to the solid splendour
of the apartment, and Mrs. Blanchard viewed it with placid but genuine satisfaction. Its tarnished
veneer and red face looked like an old honest friend, so Will declared, and he doubted not
that his wife would rejoice as he did.

Presently the cart destined to bring Phoebe's boxes started for Chagford under Ted Chown's
direction. It was a new cart, and the owner hoped that sight of it, with "William Blanchard,
Newtake," nobly displayed on the tail-board, would please his father-in-law.

Meantime, at Monks Barton the great day had likewise dawned, but Phoebe, from cowardice rather
than philosophy, did not mention what was to happen until the appearance of Chown made it necessary
to do so.

Mr. Blee was the first to stand bewildered before Ted's blunt announcement that he had come
for Mrs. Blanchard's luggage.

"What luggage? What the douce be talkin' 'bout?" he asked.

"Why, everything, I s'pose. She 'm comin' home to-day--that's knawn, ban't it?"

"Gormed if 'tis! Not by me, anyways--nor Miller, neither."

Then Phoebe appeared and Billy heard the truth.

"My! An' to keep it that quiet! Theer'll be a tidy upstore when Miller comes to hear tell--"

But Mr. Lyddon was at the door and Phoebe answered his questioning eyes.

"My birthday, dear faither. You must remember--why, you was the first to give me joy of it!
Twenty-one to-day, an' I must go--I must--'tis my duty afore everything."

The old man's jaw fell and he looked the picture of sorrowful surprise.

"But--but to spring it like this! Why to-day? Why to-day? It's madness and it's cruelty to
fly from your home the first living moment you've got the power. I'd counted on a merry evenin,'
tu, an' axed more 'n wan to drink your gude health."

"Many's the merry evenings us'll have, dear faither, please God; but a husband's a husband.
He've been that wonnerful patient, tu, for such as him. 'T was my fault for not remindin' you.
An' yet I did, now an' again, but you wouldn't see it. Yet you knawed in your heart, an' I
didn't like to pain 'e dwellin' on it overmuch."

"How did I knaw? I didn't knaw nothin' 't all 'bout it. How should I? Me grawin' aulder an'
aulder, an' leanin' more an' more 'pon 'e at every turn. An' him no friend to me--he 's never
sought to win me--he 's--"

"Doan't 'e taake on 'bout Will, dearie; you'll come to knaw un better bimebye. I ban't gwaine
so far arter all; an' it's got to be."

Then the miller worked himself into a passion, dared Chown to take his daughter's boxes, and
made a scene very painful to witness and quite futile in its effect. Phoebe could be strong
at times, and a life's knowledge of her father helped her now. She told Chown to get the boxes
and bade Billy help him; she then followed Mr. Lyddon, who was rambling away, according to
his custom at moments of great sorrow, to pour his troubles into any ear that would listen.
She put her arm through his, drew him to the riverside and spoke words that showed she had
developed mentally of late. She was a woman with her father, cooed pleasantly to him, foretold
good things, and implored him to have greater care of his health and her love than to court
illness by this display of passion. Such treatment had sufficed to calm the miller in many
of his moods, for she possessed great power to soothe him, and Mr. Lyddon now set increased
store upon his daughter's judgment; but to-day, before this dreadful calamity, every word and
affectionate device was fruitless and only made the matter worse. He stormed on, and Phoebe's
superior manner vanished as he did so, for she could only play such a part if quite unopposed
in it. Now her father silenced her, frightened her, and dared her to leave him; but his tragic
temper changed when they returned to the farm and he found his daughter's goods were really
gone. Then the old man grew very silent, for the inexorable certainty of the thing about to
happen was brought home to him at last.

Before a closed hackney carriage from the hotel arrived to carry Phoebe to Newtake, Miller
Lyddon passed through a variety of moods, and another outburst succeeded his sentimental silence.
When the vehicle was at the gate, however, his daughter found tears in his eyes upon entering
the kitchen suddenly to wish him "good-by." But he brushed them away at sight of her, and spoke
roughly and told her to be gone and find the difference between a good father and a bad husband.

"Go to the misery of your awn choosin'; go to him an' the rubbish-heap he calls a farm! Thankless
an' ontrue,--go,--an' look to me in the future to keep you out of the poorhouse and no more.
An' that for your mother's sake--not yourn."

"Oh, Faither!" she cried, "doan't let them be the last words I hear 'pon your lips. 'T is cruel,
for sure I've been a gude darter to 'e, or tried to be--an'--an'--please, dear faither, just
say you wish us well--me an' my husband. Please say that much. I doan't ax more."

But he rose and left her without any answer. It was then Phoebe's turn to weep, and blinded
with tears she slipped and hurt her knee getting into the coach. Billy thereupon offered his
aid, helped her, handed her little white fox terrier m after her, and saw that the door was
properly closed.

"Be o' good cheer," he said, "though I caan't offer 'e much prospects of easy life in double
harness wi' Will Blanchard. But, as I used to say in my church-gwaine days, 'God tempers the
wind to the shorn lamb.' Be it as 'twill, I dare say theer 's many peaceful years o' calm,
black-wearin' widowhood afore 'e yet, for chaps like him do shorten theer days a deal by such
a tearin', high-coloured, passionate way of life."

Mr. Blee opened the gate, the maids waved their handkerchiefs and wept, and not far distant,
as he heard the vehicle containing his daughter depart, Mr. Lyddon would have given half that
he had to recall the spoken word. Phoebe once gone, his anger vanished and his love for her
won on him like sunshine after storm. Angry, indeed, he still was, but with himself.

For Phoebe, curiosity and love dried her tears as she passed upward towards the Moor. Then,
the wild land reached, she put her head out of the window and saw Newtake beech trees in the
distance. Already the foliage of them seemed a little tattered and thin, and their meagreness
of vesture and solitary appearance depressed the spectator again before she arrived at them.

But the gate, thrown widely open, was reached at last, and there stood Will and Mrs. Blanchard,
Chris, Ted Chown, and the great bobtailed sheep-dog, "Ship," to welcome her. With much emotion
poor Phoebe alighted, tottered and fell into the bear-hug of her husband, while the women also
kissed her and murmured over her in their sweet, broad Devon tongue. Then something made Will
laugh, and his merriment struck the right note; but Ship fell foul of Phoebe's little terrier
and there was a growl, then a yelp and a scuffling, dusty battle amid frightened fowls, whose
protests added to the tumult. Upon this conflict descended Will's sapling with sounding thuds
administered impartially, and from the skirmish the smaller beast emerged lame and crying,
while the sheep-dog licked the blood off his nose and went to heel with a red light glimmering
through his pale blue eyes.

Happiness returned indoors and Phoebe, all blushes and praises, inspected her new home and
the preparations made within it for her pleasure. Perhaps she simulated more joy than the moment
brought, for such a day, dreamed of through years, was sure in its realisation to prove something
of an anti-climax after the cruel nature of all such events. Despite Chris and her ceaseless
efforts to keep joy at the flood, a listlessness stole over the little party as the day wore
on. Phoebe found her voice not to be relied upon and felt herself drifting into that state
between laughter and tears which craves solitude for its exhibition. The cows came home to
be milked, and there seemed but few of them after the great procession at Monks Barton. Yet
Will demanded her separate praises for each beast. In the little garden he had made, budding
flowers, untimely transplanted, hung their heads. But she admired with extravagant adjectives,
and picked a blossom and set it in her dress. Anon the sun set, with no soft lights and shadows
amidst the valley trees she knew, when sunset and twilight played hide-and-seek beside the
river, but slowly, solemnly, in hard, clean, illimitable glory upon horizons of granite and
heather. The peat glowed as though it were red-hot, and night brooded on the eastern face of
every hill. Only a jangling bell broke the startling stillness then, and, through long weeks
afterwards the girl yearned for the song of the river, as one who has long slept by another's
side sadly yearns for the sound of their breathing by night, when they are taken away. Phoebe
had little imagination, but she guessed already that the life before her must differ widely
from that spent under her father's roof. Despite the sunshine of the time and the real joy
of being united to her husband at last, she saw on every side more evidences of practical life
than she had before anticipated. But these braced her rather than not, and she told herself
truly that the sadness at bottom of her heart just then was wholly begotten of the past and
her departure from home. Deep unrest came upon her as she walked with her husband and listened
to his glad voice. She longed greatly to be alone with him that her heart might be relieved.
She wanted his arms round her; she wanted to cry and let him kiss the tears away.

Damaris Blanchard very fully understood much that was passing through her daugher-in-law's
mind, and she hastened her departure after an early cup of tea. She took a last look at all
the good things she had provided for the wedding supper--a meal she declared must not be shared
with Will and Phoebe--and so made ready to depart. It was then her turn, and her bosom throbbed
with just one dumb, fleeting shadow of fear that found words before her second thought had
time to suppress them.

"You won't love me no less, eh, Will?" she whispered, holding his hand between hers; and he
saw her grey eyes almost frightened in the gloaming.

"My God, no! No, mother; a man must have a dirty li'l heart in un if it ban't big enough to
hold mother an' wife."

She gripped his hand tighter.

"Ess fay, I knaw, I knaw; but doan't 'e put your mother first now,--ban't nature. God bless
an' keep the both of 'e. 'Twill allus be my prayer."

The cart rattled away, Chris driving, and such silence as Phoebe had never known held the darkening
land. She noted a yellow star against the sombre ridge of the world, felt Will's arm round
her and turned to him, seeking that comfort and support her nature cried out for. 

Cronje had already detached to Douglas 200 men and two guns, under Commandant Liebenberg, to
support a Cape rebel, L. F. Steinkamp, in raising the standard of revolt in those regions. To
counteract this effort, Prieska had been re-occupied on 27th January
by Lieut.-Colonel Alderson with a battery and 600 M. I., but their
immediate return to De Aar was necessary, as the mounted men were
needed for the general advance.

A diversion on a larger scale was now planned. By Lord Roberts'order Lord Methuen temporarily
attached to the Highland brigade two squadrons of the 9th Lancers, the 62nd Field battery, and
the 7th company R. E., and directed Major-General MacDonald to march at 5.30 on the morning of the
4th February to Koodoesberg Drift, where the road from Kimberley to Douglas crosses the Riet at
about twenty miles below its junction with the Modder, and to begin the construction of a fort
covering this passage of the river. The column halted at Fraser's Drift, seven miles out, and
there bivouacked for the night. Koodoesberg Drift was reached the following day. The hot season
was at its height. A reconnaissance was pushed to the north-west.

The top of the Koodoesberg, a long, flat-topped kopje, about 1,200
yards from the river, was seized.

It completely commanded the drift. A mounted patrol of fifteen Boers retired from this hill as
the British cavalry approached.

General MacDonald's force passed that night on the south bank, being covered by two companies
of infantry on the far side of the river.

At daylight, on the 6th of February, the construction of a redoubt suitable for 200 men on a
small knoll to the north of the drift was begun. Almost immediately a patrol of 9th Lancers
reported that about 300 of the enemy [316] were creeping up the northern
slope of the Koodoesberg.

The Major-General accordingly ordered his brigade-major, Lieut.-Colonel Ewart, to advance
rapidly with the working parties on the hill and try to anticipate
the assailants at the summit.

Ewart, supported by the Highland Light Infantry under Lt.-Colonel
Kelham, succeeded in doing so.

A Boer detachment which had already reached the top retired hastily. It was then found that
the plateau was some two miles in length, and therefore too extensive for complete occupation.
Kelham was accordingly ordered to hold its southern edge, and the R. E. began to build sangars
across the narrow Nek which divided the south of the hill from the main plateau. The Black Watch
was moved over the river to the right bank in support. In the afternoon arrived large reinforcements,
which had been despatched by Cronje from Scholtz Nek to aid De Wet.

These, estimated by the British troops to be about 2,000 strong, [317]
enabled the enemy to push on again up the reverse slopes of the Berg
and definitely establish themselves on the northern and western edges
of the plateau.

On this the British field-works were further strengthened.

Visser's homestead, a farmhouse lying in the plain to the south-east
of the kopje and to the north of the drift, was placed in a state
of defence, and occupied by two companies of the Black Watch.

The two squadrons of 9th Lancers during this time were manoeuvred
by Major Little near to the farm, with the object of inducing the
Boers to come out into the open and attack, but they confined themselves
all that afternoon to heavy sniping.

At dusk the companies of the H. L. I. on the eastern extremity of the Berg were relieved by another
company of that battalion and four companies of the Seaforth.

[Footnote 316: The actual strength of this force was 350.

Its leader was C. De Wet.] [Footnote 317: General De Wet officially reported that he only received
a reinforcement of 200 men.

Other Boer accounts give his total strength during the action as
800.] [Sidenote: Course of struggle.] As soon as it was dark the Boers
dragged a gun, which, with a further reinforcement of 200 men, had
been received from Cronje, up the north-western slopes of the hill,
and at 9 a. m. (7th February) they opened with shrapnel on the breastworks
at the eastern edge of the plateau.

The troops holding that ground were
now reinforced by two more companies of the H. L. I. and four of the
Black Watch, Lieut.-Colonel Hughes-Hallett being placed in command.
A little later the cavalry patrols reported that a party of Boers was passing
across Painter's Drift, two miles down the river, to attack the left
flank.

The defence of the bank of the Riet had been entrusted to Lt.-Colonel A.
Wilson, commanding the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders, and that officer
despatched two and a half companies of his battalion with two guns,
under Major E. B. Urmston, to meet this movement.

The rest of Major Granet's battery was in action on the left bank of the river against the enemy's artillery.
On the Koodoesberg itself there was a sharp fight, and a few of the burghers crept within 300
yards of the British sangars. The heat of the day was intense, and considerable difficulty
was experienced in conveying water and ammunition up the steep slopes of the kopje to the British
fighting line.

Unfortunately, this steepness at the same time rendered it almost impossible to withdraw the wounded.
Meanwhile Major Urmston's detachment frustrated the attempt of the enemy, a Ladybrand commando
under Commandant Froneman, to work down the bed of the river from Painter's Drift. [Sidenote: MacDonald
receives reinforcements.] [Sidenote: MacDonald withdrawn.] General MacDonald had early in the morning
telegraphed to the Modder camp for reinforcements. In response to this request a cavalry brigade,
with two batteries R. H. A. had been sent out under Major-General Babington, [318] and about 3.15
p. m. could be seen at a distance of about four or five miles to the north approaching the river.
MacDonald now hoped to assume the offensive, and reinforced Hughes-Hallett
with the remaining half-battalion of the Seaforth, preparatory to
a direct attack upon the Boers on the plateau, but, owing to some
misunderstanding, concerted action with the cavalry brigade was not
arranged until too late, and the general advance was accordingly postponed
until the following morning.

The enemy, meanwhile, fully realised that the arrival of the cavalry
brigade rendered his isolated position on the plateau no longer tenable.

The burghers, therefore, began slipping away from the hill, and by
nightfall had practically evacuated it, leaving their gun for some
time on the kopje unprotected save by a small escort.

General Babington tried to follow them up, but the Household cavalry, which was in front, was
checked by wire fences and came under heavy rifle fire. Their attempt
to cut off the gun was also quite stopped by musketry from some thick
bush and broken ground. The Boers subsequently succeeded in removing
the piece during the night, although its descent from the kopje was
a task of some serious labour and took two hours.

The Commander-in-Chief's object in making this feint against the enemy's right had been gained.
He had arrived that morning at the Modder camp, and now ordered the
two brigades to return. General MacDonald therefore withdrew on the evening
of the 8th of February, having first ascertained by a reconnaissance
that the enemy had completely evacuated both the Berg and Painter's
Drift.

[Footnote 318: O. and R. batteries R. H. A., composite regiment of Household
cavalry, 16th Lancers, one squadron 10th Hussars, one squadron 12th
Lancers, and two troops of the Scots Greys.] [Sidenote: Results of
demonstration.] The British losses during this action were two officers
and four men killed, and five officers and forty-two men wounded.

The Boers admitted a loss of five killed and six wounded. Locally
the results of the engagement were hardly satisfactory, but nevertheless
its effect was exactly what had been hoped for, as General Cronje
at once began to reinforce his right and further strengthen his entrenchments
on that side.

A simultaneous demonstration, also made to the westward, by a body of 1,500 men under Brig.-Gen. Broadwood,
helped to confirm the Boer leaders'assumption that the relief of
Kimberley would be attempted by the west route.

Broadwood reached Sunnyside on the 7th, hoping to strike a blow at Liebenberg's commando at
Douglas; but it had already fallen back across the river, and the
British, unable to spare the time to pursue, retired on the 8th to
Richmond, a farm thirteen miles west of Graspan.

[Sidenote: Numbers in South Africa, 4th Feb. 1900.] The Commander-in-Chief had at first intended to leave
Cape Town for the north on 30th January, but postponed his departure,
as he found that a little more time was required to collect between
the Modder and Orange rivers the troops he designed to employ.

On the 4th February, "to correct any misapprehension which may exist at the War Office as to the
total force at my disposal," the Field-Marshal informed the Secretary of State by telegram that the
effective strength of fighting men in Cape Colony, exclusive of seven militia battalions and
of the garrisons of Kimberley and Mafeking, was 51,900, and that
the entire fighting strength of the force in Natal was estimated at
34,830, of whom 9,780 were invested in Ladysmith.

Under these
circumstances Lord Roberts recommended that the number of militia
battalions in the country should be increased to thirty, and that,
if possible, two more regular battalions should be sent, one from
Malta and the other from Egypt.

Four days later Lord
Roberts informed the War Office that he would be glad if the whole
of the 8,000 Imperial Yeomanry originally asked for by Sir R. Buller
could be sent out, and more, if available.

He suggested that additional mounted men should be raised
in the colonies, and added, "I trust you will make arrangements to
supply us with horses from Australia, India, and America.

Our wants will, I fear, be considerable." [Sidenote: Details of movement. 25th Jan. to 12th Feb.
1900.] On 6th February the Field-Marshal, accompanied by his Chief
of the Staff, left Cape Town for Lord Methuen's camp. Meanwhile the concentration
had gone on.

The details of the moves by rail had been worked out by the Director of Railways and the General
Traffic Manager; ten miles of additional sidings had been laid down between Orange River and
the Modder, and at these sidings, between the 28th of January and the 12th of February, there
were detrained some 30,000 troops, with horses, guns, equipment, and
transport, besides an immense amount of supplies. Clements'brigade,
with two squadrons Inniskilling Dragoons, 660 Australian infantry
who were in process of being converted into mounted troops, 450 mounted
infantry, two batteries (J., R. H. A. and 4th R. F. A.) and a section
37th Howitzer battery, lay round Rensburg to face General Schoeman's
commandos.

The rest of Kelly-Kenny's division and French's original force were
brought round by rail to Orange River, the former unit being there
completed by the new brigade-- the 18th-- formed out of line of communication
battalions, under the command of Brig.-Gen. T. E. Stephenson.

Seven militia battalions,
just disembarked from England, were hurried up country to replace these
regular battalions, and protect the western and the central lines of
rail. By the 8th of February the cavalry division, except detachments
of the 6th Dragoon Guards and 14th Hussars and Hannay's M. I. brigade,
had been assembled at the Modder River camp under Lieut.-General
French.

Hannay's brigade was at Orange River station; the 6th division at Modder River camp; the 7th
at Enslin and Graspan. Of the 9th division, the Highland brigade was on the
Riet, while the new 19th brigade was in process of formation under
Smith-Dorrien at Graspan. The distribution of troops in South Africa on
the 11th February, 1900, will be found in Appendix 10. [Sidenote: Motives
of Lord Roberts. Instructions given below.] To Cronje it appeared that
the English were about once more to hurl themselves against his carefully-prepared
entrenchments.

Lord Roberts had at last under his hand a force whose strength and
mobility permitted of the execution of a great turning movement, and
warranted the confident hope that the tide of fortune would turn in
favour of the British flag.

It was his desire that the troops, about to engage in this fresh enterprise, should reap to
the full the benefit of the practical experiences of the earlier actions of the war, both as regards
the special conditions of fighting in South Africa and the modifications
in tactics necessitated by the introduction of smokeless powder and
magazine small-bore rifles.

He also recognised that the tasks he was about to assign to his
mounted troops would tax their horses to the utmost, and was anxious
to impress on all concerned the necessity for the most careful horsemastership.

He therefore issued the following instructions:--
NOTES FOR GUIDANCE IN SOUTH AFRICAN WARFARE. INFANTRY.

As it is desirable that full advantage should be taken of the experience
gained during the past three months by our troops in South Africa,
the following notes are issued for the guidance of all who may find
themselves in command of a force (large or small) on service in the
field.

We have to deal with an enemy possessing remarkable mobility, intimately
acquainted with the country, thoroughly understanding how to take
advantage of ground, adept in improvising cover, and most skilful
in the use of their weapons.

Against such an enemy any attempt to take a position by direct attack
will assuredly fail.

The only hope of success lies in being able to turn one or both flanks,
or what would, in many instances, be equally effective, to threaten
to cut the enemy's line of communication.

Before any plan of attack can be decided upon, the position must be carefully examined by reconnoitring
parties, and every endeavour must be made to obtain all possible information
about it from the people of the country. It must, however, be remembered
that the position ostensibly occupied is not always the one the Boers
intend to defend; it is often merely a decoy, a stronger position in the
vicinity having previously been prepared upon which they move rapidly,
and from which they can frequently bring a destructive fire to bear
upon the attacking line.

Their marvellous mobility enables them to do this without much risk
to themselves, and also to be in strength at any point of the position
that may be seriously threatened. It follows, therefore, that our object
should be to cripple the mobility of the Boers, and to effect this, next
to inflicting heavy losses on the men themselves, the surest means
would be the capture or destruction of their horses.

When the extreme rifle range from the position is reached (1,500 to
1,800 yards) by the advance troops, or before, if they find themselves
under artillery fire, all column formations must be given up, and, when advancing
to the attack of the position, infantry must be freely extended,
even on occasions, if necessary, to six or eight paces, the front
and both flanks being well covered with scouts.

This extended formation will throw increased responsibility on battalion and company commanders. The objective
aimed at, therefore, should be carefully explained to them. They should be allowed to make use
of any opportunity that may offer to further the scheme, on the distinct understanding that no isolated
acts are attempted, such as might endanger the general plan. During the attack commanding officers
must be careful not to lose touch with the troops on their right and
left, and they should, as far as possible, ensure their co-operation.

Every advantage should be taken of cover, and battalion and company
commanders should look out for and occupy positions from which they
would be able to bring an enfilading fire to bear upon the enemy.

The capacity of these officers will be judged by the initiative displayed in seizing rapidly every
opportunity to further the general scheme of attack.

An essential point, and one which must never be lost sight of, is
the power of endurance of the infantry soldier.

If infantry soldiers (carrying as they do a considerable weight on
their backs) are called upon to march a longer distance than can reasonably
be expected from men in a normal state of health, or if they are injudiciously
pressed as regards the pace, they will necessarily commence to feel
the strain before they reach a point where their best energies are
required to surmount the difficulties which lie before them.

If at such a period a man feels exhausted, moral deterioration and
the consequences to our arms which such deterioration entails, must
readily supervene.

ARTILLERY. As a general rule the artillery appear to have adapted themselves to the situation,
and to the special conditions which present themselves in a campaign in South Africa. The following
points, however, require to be noticed:-- 1.

At the commencement of an action artillery should not be ordered to take up a position until it
has been ascertained by scouts to be clear of the enemy and out of range of infantry fire. 2. When
it is intended to take a position with infantry the preparation by artillery
should be thorough and not spasmodic. Unless a strong force of infantry
is pushed within 900 yards of the position, the enemy will not occupy
his trenches and the guns will have no target.

It is a mere waste of ammunition also to bombard an entrenchment when the infantry attack is likely
to be delayed, even for a short time. To be of real value the fire of the guns should be continuous
until the assault is about to be delivered.

3.

The expenditure of ammunition is a matter which can only be regulated
by the circumstances of the moment, officers commanding should, however,
always bear in mind that the supply of artillery ammunition in the
field is necessarily limited.

4.

It is of great importance that artillery horses should be kept fit for any special effort. They
are not easily replaced, and it is the duty of artillery officers to
represent to the commander of the column whenever they consider that
their horses are being unduly worked, as regards either pace or distance.

CAVALRY AND MOUNTED TROOPS. Similarly with cavalry horses. Every endeavour should be made to save them
as much as possible, for unless this is done they cannot be expected to last through a lengthened
campaign.

The men should dismount on every available opportunity, if for a few
minutes only at a time, and, on the line of march, it will be advantageous
for them to occasionally lead instead of riding their horses.

Horses should be fed at short intervals, and not allowed to be kept too long without water. A
sufficiency of grain is necessary to enable horses to withstand hard work, but they will never
keep in condition unless they have an ample supply of hay or some bulky equivalent. On the line
of march scouting must be carried out by the mounted troops in the
most searching manner, in front and on both flanks.

All high ground should be visited and, whenever practicable, horsemen should ride along ridges
and hills. As soon as parties of the enemy are observed the mounted troops (after sending back
word to the commander) should make a considerable detour round the position occupied by the Boers,
endeavour to estimate their numbers, and to ascertain where their horses have been left. They should
also see whether, by threatening the Boers'line of communication, they would not be forced to fight
on ground unprepared for defence. ROBERTS, Field-Marshal, Commanding-in-Chief, South Africa.
Chief of Staff (Circular Memorandum). Cape Town, 5th February, 1900. The following notes
by Field-Marshal Commander-in-Chief are communicated for the guidance
of all concerned.

By Order, KITCHENER OF KHARTOUM, Chief of Staff. NOTES FOR GUIDANCE IN SOUTH AFRICAN WARFARE. CAVALRY.
1. On reconnaissances or patrols not likely to be prolonged beyond one day, the cavalry soldier's
equipment should be lightened as much as possible, nothing being taken that can possibly be dispensed
with. 2. It has been brought to my notice that our cavalry move too slowly when on reconnaissance
duty, and that unnecessarily long halts are made, the result being that the enemy, although starting
after the cavalry, are able to get ahead of it. I could understand this if the country were close and
difficult, but between the Modder and the Orange rivers its general features are such as to admit of small
parties of cavalry accompanied by field guns being employed with impunity. ARTILLERY. 3. If the enemy's
guns have, in some instances, the advantage of ours in range, we have the advantage of theirs in
mobility, and we should make use of this by not remaining in positions, the precise distance of
which from the enemy's batteries has evidently been fixed beforehand. Moreover, it has been proved
that the Boers'fire is far less accurate at unknown distances. In taking up positions compact battery formations
should be avoided. The guns should be opened out, or it may be desirable to advance by sections
or batteries.

Similarly, retirements should be carried out at considerably increased intervals, by alternate
batteries or sections if necessary, and care should be taken to travel
quickly through the danger zone of hostile artillery fire.

The following plan, frequently adopted by the Boers, has succeeded in deceiving our artillery
on several occasions:-- Suppose A to be a gun emplacement, the gun firing
smokeless powder; simultaneously with the discharge of the gun at A a
powder flask of black powder will be exploded at B, a hill in the rear,
leading us to direct our projectile on B. Careful calculation with
a watch, however, will defeat this plan. INFANTRY.

4. The present open formation renders it difficult for officers to
exercise command over their men, except such as may be in their immediate
vicinity.

A remedy for this would appear to be a system of whistle calls by
which a company lying in extended order could obey orders as readily
as if in quarter column.

I invite suggestions for such a system of whistle calls as would
be useful. 5. It is difficult to recognise officers as equipped at present,
and it seems desirable they should wear a distinguishing mark of
some kind, either on the collar at the back of the neck, or on the
back of the coat.

6.

Soldiers, when under fire, do not take sufficient advantage of the sandy nature of the soil to
construct cover for themselves.

If
such soil is scraped even with a canteen lid, a certain amount of cover
from rifle fire can be obtained in a short time.

7. The distribution of ammunition to the firing line is one of the most difficult problems of
modern warfare. One solution, which has been suggested to me, is for a portion of the supports
gradually to creep forward until a regular chain of men is established
from the supports (where the ammunition carts should be) right up
to the firing line.

The ammunition could then be gradually worked up by hand till it reached the firing line, where
it could be passed along as required.

This would, no doubt, be a slow method of distributing ammunition, but it appears to be an improvement
on the present method, which is almost impossible to carry out under fire. 8. Reports received suggest
that the Boers are less likely to hold entrenchments on the plain
with the same tenacity and courage as they display when defending
kopjes, and it is stated that this applies especially to night time,
if they know that British infantry are within easy striking distance
from them.

How far this is true time only can show. ROBERTS, Field-Marshal,
Commanding-in-Chief, South Africa.

END OF VOL. I. APPENDICES APPENDIX 1. REINFORCEMENTS SANCTIONED ON THE
8th SEPTEMBER, 1899.+--------------------+| STRENGTH| Officers|----|
Other Ranks||------|| Horses|||-----||| Guns||||----|||| Ship in
which embarked. What's eternity if you're half a ghost, half a bird? That's the
bribe thrown out,--to be a cold-blooded, perfect thing, and passionless as a musical box. Give
me hot blood that flows and throbs; give me love, and a woman's breast to lean on. One great
day on earth, such as this has been, is better than a million ages of sexless perfection in
heaven. A vain reward it was that Christ offered. It seemed highest perfection to Him, doubtless;
but He judged the world by Himself. The Camel-driver was wiser. He promised actual, healthy
flesh in paradise--flesh that should never know an ache or pain--eternal flesh, and the joys
of it. We can understand that, but where's the joy of being a spirit? I cling to the flesh
I have, for I know that Nature will very soon want back the dust she has lent me."

CHAPTER XIII

THE WILL

Agreeably to the prediction of Doctor Parsons, Mrs. Lezzard's journey was ended in less than
three weeks of her conversation with Clement Hicks. Then came a night when she made an ugly
end; and with morning a group of gossips stood about the drawn blinds, licked their lips over
the details, and generally derived that satisfaction from death common to their class. Indeed,
this ghoulish gusto is not restricted to humble folk alone. The instinct lies somewhere at
the root of human nature, together with many another morbid vein and trait not readily to be
analysed or understood. Only educated persons conceal it.

"She had deliriums just at the end," said Martha, her maid. "She called out in a voice as I
never heard afore, an' mistook her husband for the Dowl."

"Poor sawl! Death's such a struggle at the finish for the full-blooded kind. Doctor tawld me
that if she'd had the leastest bit o'liver left, he could 'a' saved her; but 'twas all soaked
up by neat brandy, leaving nought but a vacuum or some such fatal thing."

"Her hadn't the use of her innards for a full fortnight! Think o' that! Aw. dallybuttons! It
do make me cream all awver to hear tell of!"

So they piled horror upon horror; then came Clement Hicks, as one having authority, and bade
them begone. The ill-omened fowls hopped off; relations began to collect; there was an atmosphere
of suppressed electricity about the place, and certain women openly criticised the prominent
attitude Hicks saw fit to assume. This, however, did not trouble him. He wrote to the lawyer
at Newton, fixed a day for the funeral, and then turned his attention to Mr. Lezzard. The ancient
resented Clement's interference not a little, but Hicks speedily convinced him that his animosity
mattered nothing. The bee-keeper found this little taste of power not unpleasant. He knew that
everything was his own property, and he enjoyed the hate and suspicion in the eyes of those
about him. The hungry crowd haunted him, but he refused it any information. Mr. Lezzard picked
a quarrel, but he speedily silenced the old man, and told him frankly that upon his good behaviour
must depend his future position. Crushed and mystified, the widower whispered to those interested
with himself in his wife's estate; and so, before the reading of the will, there slowly grew
a very deep suspicion and hearty hatred of Clement Hicks. None had considered him in connection
with Mrs. Lezzard's fortune, for he always kept aloof from her; but women cannot easily shut
their lips over such tremendous matters of news, and so it came about that some whisper from
Chris or dark utterance from old Mrs. Hicks got wind, and a rumour grew that the bee-keeper
was the dead woman's heir.

Facts contributed colour to the suspicion, for it was known that Clement had of late given
Chris one or two pretty presents, and a ring that cost gold. His savings were suspected to
justify 110 such luxuries; yet that a speedy change in his manner of life might be expected
was also manifest from the fact that he had been looking into the question of a new stone cottage,
on the edge of the Moor, where the heather in high summer would ripple to the very doors of
his beehives.

The distrust created by these facts was quickly set at rest, for Mrs. Lezzard sank under ground
within four days of her dissolution; then, after the eating of funeral baked meats, those interested
assembled in the parlour to hear the will. The crowd whispered and growled, and looked gloomily
across at Hicks and the little figure of his mother who had come in rusty black to witness
his triumph. Then a young lawyer from Newton adjusted his spectacles, rustled his papers, and
poured himself out a glass of grocer's port before proceeding. But his task involved no strain
upon him, and was indeed completed within five minutes. Black disappointment, dismay, and despair
were the seeds sown by that unimpassioned voice; and at his conclusion a silence as blank as
any that reigned in the ears of the dead fell upon those who listened--on those who had hoped
so much and were confronted with so little.

"The will is remarkably concise. Mrs. Lezzard makes sundry bitter statements which I think
none will blame me for not repeating, though all may see them here who desire so to do; she
then constitutes Mr. Clement Hicks, her nephew, sole residuary legatee. There is no condition,
no codicil; but I have regretfully to add that Mr. Hicks wins little but this barren expression
of good-will from the testatrix; for the sufficient reason that she had nothing to leave. She
laboured under various delusions, among others that her financial position was very different
from what is the case. Upon her first husband's death, Mrs. Coomstock, as she was then, made
an arrangement with my late senior partner, Mr. Joel Ford, and purchased an annuity. This absorbed
nearly all her capital; the rest she lost in an undesirable speculation of her own choosing.
I am amazed at the present extent of her obligations. This dwelling-house, for instance, is
mortgaged to her medical man, Doctor Parsons, of Chagford. There is barely money to meet the
debts. Some fifty or sixty pounds in my hands will be absorbed by the calls of the estate.
Mrs. Lezzard's tastes--I sorrow to say it--were expensive in some directions. There is an item
of ten pounds twelve shillings for--for brandy, if I may be pardoned for speaking plainly.
The funeral also appears to have been conducted on a scale more lavish than circumstances warranted.
However, there should be sufficient to defray the cost, and I am sure nobody will blame Mr.
Hicks for showing this last respect to an amiable if eccentric woman. There is nothing to add
except that I shall be delighted to answer any questions--any questions at all."

A few moments later, the lawyer mounted his dog-cart and rattled off to enjoy a pleasant drive
homeward.

Then the company spoke its mind, and Mary Lezzard's clay might well have turned under that
bitter hornet-buzz of vituperation. Some said little, but had not strength or self-command
to hide tears; some cursed and swore. Mr. Lezzard wept unheeded; Mrs. Hicks likewise wept.
Clement sat staring into the flushed faces and angry eyes, neither seeing the rage manifested
before him, nor hearing the coarse volleys of reproach. Then in his turn he attracted attention;
and hard words, wasted on the dead, hurtled like hail round his ears, with acid laughter, and
bitter sneers at his own tremendous awakening. Stung to the quick, the lame wheelwright, Charles
Coomstock, gloated on the spectacle of Clement's dark hour, and heaped abuse upon his round-eyed,
miserable mother. The raw of his own wound found a sort of salve in this attack; and all the
other poor, coarse creatures similarly found comfort in their disappointment from a sight of
more terrific mortification than their own. Venomous utterances fell about Clement Hicks, but
he neither heard nor heeded: his mind was far away with Chris, and the small shot of the Coomstocks
and the thunder of the Chowns alike flew harmlessly past him. He saw his sweetheart's sorrow,
and her grief, as yet unborn, was the only fact that much hurt him now. The gall in his own
soul only began to sicken him when his eye rested on his mother. Then he rose and departed
to his home, while the little, snuffling woman ran at his heels, like a dog.

Not until he had escaped the tempest of voices, and was hidden from the world, did the bee-keeper
allow his own cruel disappointment to appear. Then, while his mother wept, he lifted up his
voice and cursed God. As his relations had won comfort by swearing at him, so now he soothed
his soul unconsciously in blasphemies. Then followed a silence, and his mother dared to blame
him and remind him of an error.

"You wouldn't turn the bee-butts when she died, though I begged and prayed of 'e. Oh, if you'd
awnly done what an auld woman, an' she your mother, had told 'e! Not so much as a piece of
crape would 'e suffer me to tie 'pon 'em. An' I knawed all the while the hidden power o' bees."

Presently he left her, and went to tell Chris. She greeted him eagerly, then turned pale and
even terrified as she saw the black news in his face.

"Just a gull and laughing-stock for the gods again, that's all, Chris. How easily they fool
us from their thrones, don't they? And our pitiful hopes and ambitions and poor pathetic little
plans for happiness shrivel and die, and strew their stinking corpses along the road that was
going to be so gorgeous. The time to spill the cup is when the lip begins to tremble and water
for it--not sooner--the gods know! And now all's changed--excepting only the memory of things
done that had better been left undone."

"But--but we shall be married at once, Clem?"

He shook his head.

"How can you ask it? My poor little all--twenty pounds--is gone on twopenny-halfpenny presents
during the past week or two. It seemed so little compared to the fortune that was coming. It's
all over. The great day is further off by twenty pounds than it was before that poor drunken
old fool lied to me. Yet she didn't lie either; she only forgot; you can't swim in brandy for
nothing."

Fear, not disappointment, dominated the woman before him as she heard. Sheer terror made her
grip his arm and scream to him hysterically. Then she wept wild, savage tears and called to
God to kill her quickly. For a time she parried every question, but an outburst so strangely
unlike Chris Blanchard had its roots deeper than the crushing temporary disaster which he had
brought with him. Clement, suspecting, importuned for the truth, gathered it from her, then
passed away into the dusk, faced with the greatest problem that existence had as yet set him.
Crushed, and crushed unutterably, he returned home oppressed with a biting sense of his own
damnable fate. He moved as one distracted, incoherent, savage, alone. The glorious palace he
had raised for his happiness crumbled into vast ruins; hope was dead and putrid; and only the
results of wild actions, achieved on false assumptions, faced him. Now, rising out of his brief
midsummer madness, the man saw a ghost; and he greeted it with groan as bitter as ever wrung
human heart.

Miller Lyddon sat that night alone until Mr. Blee returned to supper.

"Gert news! Gert news!" he shouted, while yet in the passage; "sweatin' for joy an' haste, I be!"

His eyes sparkled, his face shone, his words tripped each other up by the heels.

"Be gormed if ban't a 'mazin' world! She've left nought--dammy--less than nought, for the house
be mortgaged sea-deep to Doctor, an' theer's other debts. Not a penny for nobody--nothin' but
empty bottles--an' to think as I thought so poor o' God as to say theer weern't none! What
a ramshackle plaace the world is!"

"No money at all? Mrs. Lezzard--it can't be!" declared Mr. Lyddon.

"But it is, by gum! A braave tantara 'mongst the fam'ly, I tell 'e. Not a stiver--all ate up
in a 'nuity, an' her--artful limb!--just died on the last penny o' the quarter's payment. An'
Lezzard left at the work'us door--poor auld zawk! An' him fourscore an' never been eggicated
an' never larned nothin'!"

"To think it might have been your trouble, Blee!"

"That's it, that's it! That's what I be full of! Awnly for the watchin' Lard, I'd been fixed
in the hole myself. Just picture it! Me a-cussin' o' Christ to blazes an' lettin' on theer
wasn't no such Pusson; an' Him, wide awake, a-keepin' me out o' harm's way, even arter the
banns was called! Theer's a God for 'e! Watchin' day an' night to see as I comed by no harm!
That's what 't is to have laid by a tidy mort o' righteousness 'gainst a evil hour!"

"You 'm well out of it, sure enough."

"Ess, 't is so. I misjudged the Lard shocking, an' I'm man enough to up and say it, thank God.
He was right an' I was wrong; an' lookin' back, I sees it. So I'll come back to the fold, like
the piece of silver what was lost; an' theer'll be joy in heaven, as well theer may be. Burnish
it all! I'll go along to church 'fore all men's eyes next Lard's Day ever is."

"A gude thought, tu. Religion's a sort of benefit society, if you look at it, an' the church
be the bank wheer us pays in subscriptions Sundays."

"An' blamed gude interest us gets for the money," declared Mr. Blee. "Not but what I've drawed
a bit heavy on my draft of late, along o' pretendin' to heathen ways an' thoughts what I never
really held with; but 't is all wan now an' I lay I'll soon set the account right, wi' a balance
in my favour, tu. Seein' how shameful I was used, ban't likely no gert things will be laid
against me."

"And auld Lezzard will go to the Union?"

"A very fittin' plaace for un, come to think on 't. Awver-balanced for sheer greed of gawld
he was. My! what a wild-goose chase! An the things he've said to me! Not that I'd allow myself--awuly
from common humanity I must see un an' let un knaw I bear no more malice than a bird on a bough."

They drank, Billy deeper than usual. He was marvellously excited and cheerful. He greeted God
like an old friend returned to him from a journey; and that night before retiring he stood
stiffly beside his bed and covered his face in his hands and prayed a prayer familiar among
his generation.

  "Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,
   Bless the bed that I lie on,
   Four cornders to my bed,
   Four angels overspread
   Two tu foot an' two tu head,
   An' all to carry me when I'm dead.
   An' when I'm dead an' in my graave,
     An' all my bones be rotten.
   The greedy worms my flaish shall ate,
     An' I shall be forgotten;
       For Christ's sake. Amen."

Having sucked from repetition of this ancient twaddle exactly that sort of satisfaction the
French or Roman peasant wins from a babble of a dead language over beads, Billy retired with
many a grunt and sigh of satisfaction.

"It do hearten the spirit to come direct to the Throne," he reflected; "an' the wonder is how
ever I could fare for near two year wi'out my prayers. Yet, though I got my monkey up an' let
Jehovah slide, He knawed of my past gudeness, all set down in the Book o' Life. An' now I've
owned up as I was wrong; which is all even the saints can do; 'cause Judgment Day, for the
very best of us, will awnly be a matter o' owning up."

CHAPTER XIV

A HUNDRED POUNDS

The maddening recollection of things done wrought upon Clement Hicks until it bred in him a
distracted frenzy and blinded his judgment. He lost all sense of proportion in his endeavour
to come at a right course of action, and a mind long inclined towards one road now readily
drifted upon it. To recover the position had been quite possible, and there were not wanting
those ready and eager to assist him; but at this crisis in his fortune the man lost all power
of reflection or self-control. The necessity for instant action clamoured to him through daylight
and darkness; delay drove him hourly into a hysterical condition approaching frenzy, and every
road to escape save one appeared bolted and barred against him. But, try as he might, his miseries
could not be hidden, and Will Blanchard, among others, sympathised very heartily with the great
disappointment that had now fallen upon Chris and her sweetheart. His sister's attitude had
astonished both him and his mother. They fancied that Blanchards were made of sterner stuff;
but Chris went down before the blow in a manner very unexpected. She seemed dazed and unable
to recover from it. Her old elastic spirit was crushed, and a great sorrow looked from her eyes.

Neither Will nor her mother could rouse her, and so it came about that thinking how best he
could play a brother's part, the master of Newtake decided on a notable deed and held that
the hour for it must be delayed no longer. He debated the circumstance from every point of
view, examined his accounts, inspected the exact figures represented by the remainder of his
uncle's legacy and then broke the matter to Phoebe. To his mother he had already spoken concerning
the intention, and she approved it, though without knowing particulars. Phoebe, however, happened
to be quite as familiar with Will's affairs as Will himself, and while his determination to
give Clement and Chris a hundred pounds was easily come at and most cheering to his heart,
the necessity of breaking the news to his wife appeared not so easy or pleasant. Indeed, Will
approached the task with some trepidation, for a recent event made it doubly difficult. They
sat together one night, after six weeks of married life, and he plunged into the matter.

"'Tis sad them two being kept apart like this," he said abruptly.

"'Tis so. Nobody feels it more'n me. Matters was hard with us, and now they 'm all smooth and
the future seems fairly bright, tu."

"Very bright," he said stoutly. "The hay's best ever come off my ground, thanks to the manure
from Monks Barton; and look at the wurzels! Miller hisself said he've never seed a more promising
crop, high or low. An' the things be in prime kelter, tu; an' better than four hunderd pound
of uncle's money still left."

"Long may it be left, I'm sure. 'Tis terrible work dipping into it, an' I looks at both sides
of a halfpenny 'fore I spend it. Wish you would. You'm tu generous, Will. But accounts are
that difficult."

This was not the spirit of the hour, however.

"I was gwaine to say that out of all our happiness an' fortune we might let a little bubble
awver for Chris--eh? She'm such a gude gal, an' you love her so dearly as what I do a'most."

Phoebe read the project in a flash, but yet invited her husband to explain.

"What d'you mean?" she asked distrustfully and coldly.

"I can see in your face you knaw well enough. That four-hunderd-odd pound. I've sometimes thought
I should have given Chris a bit of the windfall when first it comed. But now--well, theer's
this cruel coil failed on 'em. You knaw the hardness of waiting. 'Twould be a butivul thing
to let 'em marry an' feel't was thanks to us."

"You want to go giving them money?"

"Not 'give' 'zactly. Us'll call it a loan, till the time they see their way clearer."

Phoebe sighed and was silent for a while.

"Poor dears," she said at length. "I feel for 'em in my heart, same as you do; yet somehow
it doan't look right."

"Not right, Phoebe?"

"Not wise, then. Remember what you say the winters be up here--such dreary months with no money
coming in and all gwaine out to keep life in the things."

"'Tis a black, bitin' business on the high farms--caan't deny that."

"Money flies so."

"Then let some fly to a gude end. You knaw I'm a hard, keen man where other people be concerned,
most times."

His wife laughed frankly, and he grew red.

"Damn it, Phoebe, doan't you take me like that else you'll get the rough edge of my tongue.
'Tis for you to agree with what I'm pleased to say, not contradict it. I be a hard, keen man,
and knaws the value of money as well as another. But Chris is my awn sister, an' the long an'
the short is, I'm gwaine to give Clem Hicks a hunderd pound."

"Will! It's not reasonable, it's not fair--us working so hard an'--an'--"

"They 'm to have it, anyway."

Her breath caught in a little, helpless gasp. Without a word she picked up the material in
her hands, huddled it up, and thrust it across the table towards him. Then the passion faded
out of his face, his eyes softened and grew dreamy, he smiled, and rubbed his brown cheek with
the flannel.

"My awn, li'l clever woman, as have set about the fashioning of a bairn so soon! God bless
'e, an' bless 'e an' be gude to 'e, an' the wee thing coming!"

He put his arm round her and patted her hair and purred softly to her; whereupon she relented
and kissed him.

"You knaw best, Will, dearie; you nearly allus knaw best; but your heart's bigger 'n your pocket--an'
a li'l child do call so loud for the spendin' o' money."

"Aye, I knaw, I knaw; 'tis a parent's plaace to stand up for his offspring through fire an'
water; an' I reckon I won't be the worst faither as ever was, either. I can mind the time when
I was young myself. Stern but kind's the right rule. Us'll bring un up in the proper way, an'
teach un to use his onderstandin' an' allus knuckle down 'fore his elders. To tell 'e truth,
Phoebe, I've a notion I might train up a cheel better'n some men."

"Yes, Will, I think so, tu. But 'tis food an' clothes an' li'l boots an' such-like comes first.
A hunderd pounds be such a mort o' money."

"'Twill set 'em up in a fair way."

"Fifty wouldn't hardly do, p'r'aps?"

"Hardly. I like to carry a job through clean an' vitty while I'm on it."

"You've got such a big spirit."

"As to that, money so spent ban't lost--'tis all in the fam'ly."

"Of course 'tis a gude advertisement for you. Folk'll think you'm prosperin' an' look up to
you more."

"Well, some might, though I doan't 'zactly mean it like that. Yet the putting out o' three
figures o' money must make neighbours ope their eyes. Not that I want anybody to knaw either."

So, against her judgment, Phoebe was won over, and presently she and her husband made merry
at prospect of the great thing contemplated. Will imitated Clement's short, glum, and graceless
manner before the gift; Phoebe began to spend the money and plan the bee-keeper's cottage when
Chris should enter it as a bride; and thus, having enjoyed an hour of delight the most pure
and perfect that can fall to human lot, the young couple retired.

Elsewhere defeat and desolation marked the efforts of the luckless poet to improve his position.
All thoughts drifted towards the Red House, and when, struggling from this dark temptation,
he turned to Martin Grimbal rather than his brother, Fate crushed this hope also. The antiquary
was not in Chagford, and Clement recollected that Martin had told him he designed some visits
to the doom rings of Iceland, and other contemporary remains of primeval man in Brittany and
in Ireland. To find him at present was impossible, for he had left no address, and his housekeeper
only knew that he would be out of England until the autumn.

Now the necessity for action gained gigantically upon Hicks, and spun a net of subtle sophistry
that soon had the poor wretch enmeshed beyond possibility of escape. He assured himself that
the problem was reduced to a mere question of justice to a woman. A sacrifice must be made
between one whom he loved better than anything in the world, and one for whom he cared not
at all. That these two persons chanced to be brother and sister was an unfortunate accident,
but could not be held a circumstance strong enough to modify his determination. He had, indeed,
solemnly sworn to Will to keep his secret, but what mattered that before this more crushing,
urgent duty to Chris? His manhood cried out to him to protect her. Nothing else signified in
the least; the future--the best that he could hope for--might be ashy and hopeless now; but
it was with the immediate present and his duty that he found himself concerned. There remained
but one grim way; and, through such overwhelming, shattering storm and stress as falls to the
lot of few, he finally took it. To marry at any cost and starve afterwards if necessary, had
been the more simple plan; and that course of action must first have occurred to any other
man but this; to him, however, it did not occur. The crying, shrieking need for money was the
thing that stunned him and petrified him. Shattered and tossed to the brink of aberration,
stretched at frightful mental tension for a fortnight, he finally succumbed, and told himself
that his defeat was victory.

He wrote to John Grimbal, explained that he desired to see him on the morrow, and the master
of the Red House, familiar with recent affairs, rightly guessed that Hicks had changed his
mind. Excited beyond measure, the victor fixed a place for their conversation, and it was a
strange one.

"Meet me at Oke Tor," he wrote. "By an accident I shall be in the Taw Marshes to-morrow, and
will ride to you some time in the afternoon.--J.G."

Thus, upon a day when Will Blanchard called at Mrs. Hicks's cottage, Clement had already started
for his remote destination on the Moor. With some unconscious patronage Will saluted Mrs. Hicks
and called for Clement. Then he slapped down a flat envelope under the widow's eyes.

"Us have thought a lot about this trouble, mother, an' Phoebe's hit on as braave a notion as
need be. You see, Clem's my close friend again now, an' Chris be my sister; so what's more
fittin' than that I should set up the young people? An' so I shall, an' here's a matter of
Bank of England notes as will repay the countin'. Give 'em to Clem wi' my respects."

Then Will suffered a surprise. The little woman before him swelled and expanded, her narrow
bosom rose, her thin lips tightened, and into her dim eyes there came pride and brightness.
It was her hour of triumph, and she felt a giantess as she stood regarding the envelope and
Will. Him she had never liked since his difference with her son concerning Martin Grimbal,
and now, richer for certain news of that morning, she gloried to throw the gift back.

"Take your money again, bwoy. No Hicks ever wanted charity yet, least of all from a Blanchard.
Pick it up; and it's lucky Clement ban't home, for he'd have said some harsh words, I'm thinking.
Keep it 'gainst the rainy days up to Newtake. And it may surprise 'e to knaw that my son's
worth be getting found out at last. It won't be so long 'fore he takes awver Squire Grimbal's
farm to the Red House. What do 'e think o' that? He've gone to see un this very day 'bout it."

"Well, well! This be news, and no mistake--gude news, tu, I s'pose. Jan Grimbal! An' what Clem
doan't knaw 'bout farmin', I'll be mighty pleased to teach un, I'm sure."

"No call to worry yourself; Clem doan't want no other right arm than his awn."

"Chris shall have the money, then; an' gude luck to 'em both, say I."

He departed, with great astonishment the main emotion of his mind. Nothing could well have
happened to surprise him more, and now he felt that he should rejoice, but found it difficult
to do so.

"Braave news, no doubt," he reflected, "an' yet, come to think on it, I'd so soon the devil
had given him a job as Grimbal. Besides, to choose him! What do Clement knaw 'bout farmin'?
Just so much as I knaw 'bout verse-writin', an' no more."

CHAPTER XV

"THE ANGEL OF THE DARKER DRINK"

Patches of mist all full of silver light moved like lonely living things on the face of the
high Moor. Here they dispersed and scattered, here they approached and mingled together, here
they stretched forth pearly fingers above the shining granite, and changed their shapes at
the whim of every passing breeze; but the tendency of each shining, protean mass was to rise
to the sun, and presently each valley and coomb lay clear, while the cool vapours wound in
luminous and downy undulations along the highest points of the land before vanishing into air.

A solitary figure passed over the great waste. He took his way northward and moved across Scorhill,
leaving Wattern Tor to the left. Beneath its ragged ridges, in a vast granite amphitheatre,
twinkled the cool birth-springs of the little Wallabrook, and the water here looked leaden
under shade, here sparkled with silver at the margin of a cloud shadow, here shone golden bright
amid the dancing heads of the cotton-grass under unclouded sunlight. The mist wreaths had wholly
departed before noon, and only a few vast mountains of summer gold moved lazily along the upper
chambers of the air. A huge and solitary shadow overtook the man and spread itself directly
about him, then swept onwards; infinite silence encompassed him; once from a distant hillside
a voice cried to him, where women and children moved like drab specks and gathered the ripe
whortleberries that now wove purple patterns into the fabric of the Moor; but he heeded not
the cry; and other sound there was none save the occasional and mournful note of some lonely
yellowhammer perched upon a whin. Into the prevalent olive-brown of the heath there had now
stolen an indication of a magic change at hand, for into the sober monotone crept a gauzy shadow,
a tremor of wakening flower-life, half pearl, half palest pink, yet more than either. Upon
the immediate foreground it rippled into defined points of blossom, which already twinkled
through all the dull foliage; in the middle distance it faded; afar off it trembled as a palpable
haze of light under the impalpable reeling of the summer air. A week or less would see the
annual miracle peformed again and witness that spacious and solemn region in all the amethystine
glories of the ling. Fiercely hot grew the day, and the distances, so distinct through mist
rifts and wreaths in the clearness of early morning, now retreated--mountain upon mountain,
wide waste on waste--as the sun climbed to the zenith. Detail vanished, the Moor stretched
shimmering to the horizon; only now and again from some lofty point of his pilgrimage did the
traveller discover chance cultivation through a dip in the untamed region he traversed. Then
to the far east and north, the map of fertile Devon billowed and rolled in one enormous misty
mosaic,--billowed and rolled all opalescent under the dancing atmosphere and July haze, rolled
and swept to the sky-line, where, huddled by perspective into the appearance of density, hung
long silver tangles of infinitely remote and dazzling cloud against the blue.

From that distant sponge in the central waste, from Cranmere, mother of moorland rivers, the
man presently noted wrinkles of pure gold trickling down a hillside two miles off. Here sunshine
touched the river Taw, still an infant thing not far advanced on the journey from its fount;
but the play of light upon the stream, invisible save for this finger of the sun, indicated
to the solitary that he approached his destination. Presently he stood on the side of lofty
Steeperton and surveyed that vast valley known as Taw Marsh, which lies between the western
foothills of Cosdon Beacon and the Belstone Tors to the north. The ragged manes of the latter
hills wind through the valley in one lengthy ridge, and extend to a tremendous castellated
mass of stone, by name Oke Tor.

This erection, with its battlements and embrasures, outlying scarps and counterscarps, remarkably
suggests the deliberate and calculated creation of man. It stands upon a little solitary hill
at the head of Taw Marsh, and wins its name from the East Okement River which runs through
the valley on its western flank. Above wide fen and marsh it rises, yet seen from Steeperton's
vaster altitude, Oke Tor looks no greater than some fantastic child-castle built by a Brobding-nagian
baby with granite bricks. Below it on this July day the waste of bog-land was puckered with
brown tracts of naked soil, and seamed and scarred with peat-cuttings. Here and there drying
turfs were propped in pairs and dotted the hillsides; emerald patches of moss jewelled the
prevailing sobriety of the valley, a single curlew, with rising and falling crescendos of sound,
flew here and there under needless anxiety, and far away on White Hill and the enormous breast
of Cosdon glimmered grey stone ghosts from the past,--track-lines and circles and pounds,--the
work of those children of the mist who laboured here when the world was younger, whose duty
now lay under the new-born light of the budding heath. White specks dotted the undulations
where flocks roamed free; in the marsh, red cattle sought pasture, and now was heard the jingle-jangle
of a sheep-bell, and now the cry of bellowing kine.

Like a dark incarnation of suffering over this expansive scene passed Clement Hicks to the
meeting with John Grimbal. His unrest was accentuated by the extreme sunlit peace of the Moor,
and as he sat on Steeperton and gazed with dark eyes into the marshes below, there appeared
in his face the battlefield of past struggles, the graves of past hopes. A dead apathy of mind
and muscle succeeded his mental exertion and passion of thought. Increased age marked him,
as though Time, thrusting all at once upon him bitter experiences usually spread over many
years of a man's life, had weighed him down, humped his back, thinned his hair, and furrowed
his forehead under the load. Within his eyes, behind the reflected blue of the sky, as he raised
them to it, sat mad misery; and an almost tetanic movement of limb, which rendered it impossible
for him to keep motionless even in his present recumbent position, denoted the unnatural excitation
of his nerves. The throb and spasm of the past still beat against his heart. Like a circular
storm in mid-ocean, he told himself that the tempest had not wholly ended, but might reawaken,
overwhelm him, and sweep him back into the turmoil again. As he thought, and his eye roved
for a rider on a brown horse, the poor wretch was fighting still. Yesterday fixed determination
marked his movements, and his mind was made up; to-day, after a night not devoid of sleep,
it seemed that everything that was best in him had awakened refreshed, and that each mile of
the long tramp across Dartmoor had represented another battle fought with his fate. Justice,
Justice for himself and the woman he loved, was the cry raised more than once aloud in sharp
agony on that great silence. And only the drone of the shining-winged things and the dry rustle
of the grasshoppers answered him.

Like the rest of the sore-smitten and wounded world, he screamed to the sky for Justice, and,
like the rest of the world, forgot or did not know that Justice is only a part of Truth, and
therefore as far beyond man's reach as Truth itself. Justice can only be conceived by humanity,
and that man should even imagine any abstraction so glorious is wonderful, and to his credit.
But Justice lies not only beyond our power to mete to our fellows; it forms no part of the
Creator's methods with us or this particular mote in the beam of the Universe. Man has never
received Justice, as he understands it, and never will; and his own poor, flagrant, fallible
travesty of it, erected to save him from himself, and called Law, more nearly approximates
to Justice than the treatment which has ever been apportioned to humanity. Before this eternal
spectacle of illogical austerity, therefore, man, in self-defence and to comfort his craving
and his weakness, has clung to the cheerful conceit of immortality; has pathetically credited
the First Cause with a grand ultimate intention concerning each suffering atom; has assured
himself that eternity shall wipe away all tears and blood, shall reward the actors in this
puppet-show with golden crowns and nobler parts in a nobler playhouse. Human dreams of justice
are responsible for this yearning towards another life, not the dogmas of religion; and the
conviction undoubtedly has to be thanked for much individual right conduct. But it happens
that an increasing number of intellects can find solace in these theories no longer; it happens
that the liberty of free thought (which is the only liberty man may claim) will not longer
be bound with these puny chains. Many detect no just argument for a future life; they admit
that adequate estimate of abstract Justice is beyond them; they suspect that Justice is a human
conceit; and they see no cause why its attributes should be credited to the Creator in His
dealings with the created, for the sufficient reason that Justice has never been consistently
exhibited by Him. The natural conclusion of such thought need not be pursued here. Suffice
it that, taking their stand on pure reason, such thinkers deny the least evidence of any life
beyond the grave; to them, therefore, this ephemeral progression is the beginning and the end,
and they live every precious moment with a yearning zest beyond the power of conventional intellects
to conceive.

Of such was Clement Hicks. And yet in this dark hour he cried for Justice, not knowing to whom
or to what he cried. Right judgment was dead at last. He rose and shook his head in mute answer
to the voices still clamouring to his consciousness. They moaned and reverberated and mingled
with the distant music of the bellwether, but his mind was made up irrevocably now; he had
determined to do the thing he had come to do. He told himself nothing much mattered any more;
he laughed as he rose and wiped the sweat off his face, and passed down Steeperton through
debris of granite. "Life's only a breath and then--Nothing," he thought; "but it will be interesting
to see how much more bitterness and agony those that pull the strings can cram into my days.
I shall watch from the outside now. A man is never happy so long as he takes a personal interest
in life. Henceforth I'll stand outside and care no more, and laugh and laugh on through the
years. We're greater than the Devil that made us; for we can laugh at all his cursed cruelty--we
can laugh, and we can die laughing, and we can die when we please. Yes, that's one thing he
can't do--torment us an hour more than we choose."

Suicide was always a familiar thought with this man, but it had never been farther from his
mind than of late. Cowardly in himself, his love for Chris Blanchard was too great to suffer
even the shadow of self-slaughter to tempt him at the present moment. What might happen in
the future, he could not tell; but while her happiness was threatened and her life's welfare
hung in the balance, his place was by her side. Then he looked into Will Blanchard's future
and asked himself what was the worst that could result from his pending treachery. He did not
know and wished time had permitted him to make inquiries. But his soul was too weary to care.
He only looked for the ordeal to be ended; his aching eyes, now bent on his temporal environment,
ranged widely for the spectacle of a rider on a brown horse.

A red flag flapped from a lofty pole at the foot of Steeperton, but Hicks, to whom the object
and its significance were familiar, paid no heed and passed on towards Oke Tor. On one side
the mass rose gradually up by steps and turrets; on the other, the granite beetled into a low
cliff springing abruptly from the turf. Within its clefts and crannies there grew ferns, and
to the north-east, sheltered under ledges from the hot sun, cattle and ponies usually stood
or reclined upon such a summer day as this, and waited for the oncoming cool of evening before
returning to pasture. On the present occasion, however, no stamp of hoof, snort of nostril,
whisk of tail, and hum of flies denoted the presence of beasts. For some reason they had been
driven elsewhere. Clement climbed the Tor, then stood upon its highest point, and turning his
back to the sun, scanned the wide rolling distances over which he had tramped, and sought fruitlessly
for an approaching horseman. But no particular hour had been specified, and he knew not and
cared not how long he might have to wait.

In a direction quite contrary to that on which the eyes of Hicks were set, sat John Grimbal
upon his horse and talked with another man. They occupied a position at the lower-most end
of Taw Marsh, beneath the Belstones; and they watched some seventy artillerymen busily preparing
for certain operations of a nature to specially interest the master of the Red House. Indeed
the pending proceedings had usually occupied his mind, to total exclusion of all other affairs;
but to-day even more momentous events awaited him in the immediate future, and he looked from
his companion along the great valley to where Oke Tor appeared, shrunk to a mere grey stone
at the farther end. Of John Grimbal's life, it may now be said that it drifted into a confirmed
and bitter misogyny. He saw no women, spoke of the sex with disrespect, and chose his few friends
among men whose sporting and warlike instincts chimed with his own. Sport he pursued with dogged
pertinacity, but the greater part of his leisure was devoted to the formation of a yeomanry
corps at Chagford, and in this design he had made good progress. He still kept his wrongs sternly
before his mind, and when the old bitterness began to grow blunted, deliberately sharpened
it again, strangling alike the good work of time and all emotions of rising contentment and
returning peace. Where was the wife whose musical voice and bright eyes should welcome his
daily home-coming? Where were the laughing and pattering-footed little ones? Of these priceless
treasures the man on the Moor had robbed him. His great house was empty and cheerless. Thus
he could always blow the smouldering fires into active flame by a little musing on the past;
but how long it might be possible to sustain his passion for revenge under this artificial
stimulation of memory remained to be seen. As yet, at any rate, the contemplation of Will Blanchard's
ruin was good to Grimbal, and the accident of his discovery that Clement Hicks knew some secret
facts to his enemy's disadvantage served vastly to quicken the lust for a great revenge. From
the first he had determined to drag Clement's secret out of him sooner or later, and had, until
his recent offer of the Red House Farm, practised remarkable patience. Since then, however,
a flicker of apparent prosperity which overtook the bee-keeper appeared to diminish Grimbal's
chances perceptibly; but with the sudden downfall of Clement's hopes the other's ends grew
nearer again, and at the last it had scarcely surprised him to receive the proposal of Hicks.
So now he stood within an hour or two of the desired knowledge, and his mind was consequently
a little abstracted from the matter in hand.

The battery, consisting of four field-guns, was brought into action in the direction of the
upper end of the valley, while Major Tremayne, its commanding officer and John Grimbal's acquaintance,
explained to the amateur all that he did not know. During the previous week the master of the
Red House and other officers of the local yeomanry interested in military matters had dined
at the mess of those artillery officers then encamped at Okehampton for the annual practice
on Dartmoor; and the outcome of that entertainment was an invitation to witness some shooting
during the forthcoming week.

The gunners in their dark blue uniforms swarmed busily round four shining sixteen-pounders,
while Major Tremayne conversed with his friend. He was a handsome, large-limbed man, with kindly
eyes.

"Where's your target?" asked Grimbal, as he scanned the deep distance of the valley.

"Away there under that grey mass of rock. We've got to guess at the range as you know; then
find it. I should judge the distance at about two miles--an extreme limit. Take my glass and
you'll note a line of earthworks thrown up on this side of the stone. That is intended to represent
a redoubt and we're going to shell it and slay the dummy men posted inside."

"I can see without the glass. The rock is called Oke Tor, and I'm going to meet a man there
this afternoon."

"Good; then you'll be able to observe the results at close quarters. They'll surprise you.
Now we are going to begin. Is your horse all right? He looks shifty, and the guns make a devil
of a row."

"Steady as time. He's smelt powder before to-day."

Major Tremayne now adjusted his field-glasses, and carefully inspected distant earthworks stretched
below the northern buttresses of Oke Tor. He estimated the range, which he communicated to
the battery; then after a slight delay came the roar and bellow of the guns as they were fired
in slow succession.

But the Major's estimate proved too liberal, for the ranging rounds fell far beyond the target,
and dropped into the lofty side of Steeperton.

The elevation of the guns was accordingly reduced, and Grimbal noted the profound silence in
the battery as each busy soldier performed his appointed task.

At the next round shells burst a little too short of the earthworks, and again a slight modification
in the range was made. Now missiles began to descend in and around the distant redoubt, and
each as it exploded dealt out shattering destruction to the dummy men which represented an
enemy. One projectile smashed against the side of Oke Tor, and sent back the ringing sound
of its tremendous impact.

Subsequent practice, now that the range was found, produced results above the average in accuracy,
and Major Tremayne's good-humour increased.

"Five running plump into the redoubt! That's what we can do when we try," he said to Grimbal,
while the amateur awarded his meed of praise and admiration.

Anon the business was at an end; the battery limbered up; the guns, each drawn by six stout
horses, disappeared with many a jolt over the uneven ground, as the soldiers clinked and clashed
away to their camp on the high land above Okehamptou.

Under the raw smell of burnt powder Major Tremayne took leave of Grimbal and the rest; each
man went his way; and John, pursuing a bridle-path through the marshes of the Taw, proceeded
slowly to his appointment.

An unexpected spring retarded Grimbal's progress and made a considerable detour necessary.
At length, however, he approached Oke Tor, marked the tremendous havoc of the firing, and noted
a great grey splash upon the granite, where one shell had abraded its weathered face.

John Grimbal dismounted, tied up his horse, then climbed to the top of the Tor, and searched
for an approaching pedestrian. Nobody was visible save one man only; amounted soldier riding
round to strike the red warning flags posted widely about the ranges. Grimbal descended and
approached the southern side, there to sit on the fine intermingled turf and moss and smoke
a cigar until his man should arrive. But rounding the point of the low cliff, he found that
Hicks was already there.

Clement, his hat off, reclined upon his back with his face lifted to the sky. Where his head
rested, the wild thyme grew, and one great, black bumble-bee boomed at a deaf ear as it clumsily
struggled in the purple blossoms. He lay almost naturally, but some distortion of his neck
and a film upon his open eyes proclaimed that the man neither woke nor slept.

His lonely death was on this wise. Standing at the edge of the highest point of Oke Tor, with
his back to the distant guns, he had crowned the artillerymen's target, himself invisible.
At that moment firing began, and the first shell, suddenly shrieking scarcely twenty yards
above his head, had caused Hicks to start and turn abruptly. With this action he lost his balance;
then a projection of the granite struck his back as he fell and brought him heavily to the
earth upon his head.

Now the sun, creeping westerly, already threw a ruddiness over the Moor, and this warm light
touching the dead man's cheek brought thither a hue never visible in life, and imparted to
the features a placidity very startling by contrast with the circumstances of his sudden and
violent end.

CHAPTER XVI

BEFORE THE DAWN

It proclaims the attitude of John Grimbal to his enemy that thus suddenly confronted with the
corpse of a man whom he believed in life, his first emotion should have betokened bitter disappointment
and even anger. Will Blanchard's secret, great or small, was safe enough for the present; and
the hand stretched eagerly for revenge clutched air.

Convincing himself that Hicks was dead, Grimbal galloped off towards Belstone village, the
nearest centre of civilisation. There he reported the facts, directed police and labourers
where to find the body and where to carry it, and subsequently rode swiftly back to Chagford.
Arrived at the market-place, he acquainted Abraham Chown, the representative of the Devon constabulary,
with his news, and finally writing a brief statement at the police station before leaving it,
Grimbal returned home.

Not until after dark was the impatient mother made aware of her son's end, and she had scarcely
received the intelligence before he came home to her--with no triumphant news of the Red House
Farm, but dead, on a sheep-hurdle. Like summer lightning Clement's fate leapt through the length
and breadth of Chagford. It penetrated to the vicarage; it reached outlying farms; it arrived
at Monks Barton, was whispered near Mrs. Blanchard's cottage by the Teign, and, in the early
morning of the following day, reached Newtake.

Then Will, galloping to the village while dawn was yet grey, met Doctor Parsons, and heard
the truth of these uncertain rumours which had reached him.

"It seems clear enough when Grimbal's statement comes to be read," explained the medical man.
"He had arranged a meeting with poor Hicks on Oke Tor, and, when he went to keep his appointment,
found the unfortunate man lying under the rocks quite dead. The spot, I must tell you, was
near a target of the soldiers at Okehampton, and John Grimbal first suspected that Hicks, heedless
of the red warning flags, had wandered into the line of fire and been actually slain by a projectile.
But nothing of that sort happened. I have seen him. The unfortunate man evidently slipped and
fell from some considerable height upon his head. His neck is dislocated and the base of the
skull badly fractured."

"Have you seen my poor sister?"

"I was called last night while at Mrs. Hicks's cottage, and went almost at once. It's very
terrible--very. She'll get brain fever if we're not careful. Such a shock! She was walking
alone, down in the croft by the river--all in a tremendously heavy dew too. She was dry-eyed
and raved, poor girl. I may say she was insane at that sad moment. 'Weep for yourself!' she
said to me. 'Let this place weep for itself, for there's a great man has died. He was here
and lived here and nobody knew--nobody but his mother and I knew what he was. He had to beg
his bread almost, and God let him; but the sin of it is on those around him--you and the rest.'
So she spoke, poor child. These are not exactly her words, but something like them. I got her
indoors to her mother and sent her a draught. I've just come from confining Mrs. Woods, and
I'll walk down and see your sister now before I go home if you like. I hope she may be sleeping."

Will readily agreed to this suggestion; and together the two men proceeded to the valley.

But many things had happened since the night. When Doctor Parsons left Mrs. Blanchard, she
had prevailed upon Chris to go to bed, and then herself departed to the village and sat with
Mrs. Hicks for an hour. Returning, she found her daughter apparently asleep, and, rather than
wake her, left the doctor's draught unopened; yet Chris had only simulated slumber, and as
soon as her mother retreated to her own bed, she rose, dressed, crept from the house, and hastened
through the night to where her lover lay.

The first awful stroke had fallen, but the elasticity of the human mind which at first throws
off and off such terrible shocks, and only after the length of many hours finally accepts them
as fact, saved Chris Blanchard from going mad. Happily she could not thus soon realise the
truth. It recurred, like the blows of a sledge, upon her brain, but between these cruel reminders
of the catastrophe, the knowledge of Clement's death escaped her memory entirely, and more
than once, while roaming the dew alone, she asked herself suddenly what she was doing and why
she was there. Then the mournful answer knelled to her heart, and the recurrent spasms of that
first agony slowly, surely settled into one dead pain, as the truth was seared into her knowledge.
A frenzied burst of anger succeeded, and under its influence she spoke to Doctor Parsons, who
approached her beside the river and with tact and patience at length prevailed upon her to
enter her home. She cursed the land that had borne him, the hamlet wherein he had dwelt; and
her mother, not amazed at her fierce grief, found each convulsive ebullition of sorrow natural
to the dark hour, and soothed her as best she could. Then the elder woman departed a while,
not knowing the truth and feeling such a course embraced the deeper wisdom.

Left alone, her future rose before Chris, as she sat upon her bed and saw the time to come
glimmer out of the night in colours more ashy than the moonbeams on the cotton blind. Yet,
as she looked her face burned, and one flame, vivid enough, flickered through all the future;
the light on her own cheeks. Her position as it faced her from various points of view acted
upon her physical being--suffocated her and brought a scream to her lips. There was nobody
to hear it, nobody to see the girl tear her hair, rise from her couch, fall quivering, face
downward, on the little strip of carpet beside her bed. Who could know even a little of what
this meant to her? Women had often lost the men they loved, but never, never like this. So
she assured herself. Past sorrows and fears dwindled to mere shadows now; for the awful future--the
crushing months to come, rose grim and horrible on the horizon of Time, laden with greater
terrors than she could face and live.

Alone, Chris told herself she might have withstood the oncoming tribulation--struggled through
the storms of suffering and kept her broken heart company as other women had done before and
must again; but she would not be alone. A little hand was stretching out of the loneliness
she yearned for; a little voice was crying out of the solitude she craved. The shadows that
might have sheltered her were full of hard eyes; the secret places would only echo a world's
cruel laughter now--that world which had let her loved one die uncared for, that world so pitiless
to such as she. Her thoughts were alternately defiant and fearful; then, before the picture
of her mother and Will, her emotions dwindled from the tragic and became of a sort that weeping
could relieve. Tears, now mercifully released from their fountains, softened her bruised soul
for a time and moderated the physical strain of her agony. She lay long, half-naked, sobbing
her heart out. Then came the mad desire to be back with Clement at any cost, and profound pity
for him overwhelmed her mind to the exclusion of further sorrow for herself. She forgot herself
wholly in grief that he was gone. She would never hear him speak or laugh again; never again
kiss the trouble from his eyes; never feel the warm breath of him, the hand-grip of him. He
was dead; and she saw him lying straight and cold in a padded coffin, with his hands crossed
and cerecloth stiffly tying up his jaws. He would sink into the silence that dwelt under the
roots of the green grass; while she must go on and fight the world, and in fighting it, bring
down upon his grave bitter words and sharp censures from the lips of those who did not understand.

Before which reflection Death came closer and looked kind; and the thought of his hand was
cool and comforting, as the hand of a grey moor mist sweeping over the heath after fiery days
of cloudless sun. Death stood very near and beckoned at the dark portals of her thought. Behind
him there shone a great light, and in the light stood Clem; but the Shadow filled all the foreground.
To go to her loved one, to die quickly and take their mutual secret with her, seemed a right
and a precious thought just then; to go, to die, while yet he lay above the earth, was a determination
that had even a little power to solace her agony. She thought of meeting him standing alone,
strange, friendless on the other side of the grave; she told herself that actual duty, if not
the vast love she bore him, pointed along the unknown road he had so recently followed. It
was but justice to him. Then she could laugh at Time and Fate and the juggling unseen Controller
who had played with him and her, had wrecked their little lives, forced their little passions
under a sham security, then snapped the thread on which she hung for everything, killed the
better part of herself, and left her all alone without a hand to shield or a heart to pity.
In the darkness, as the moon stole away and her chamber window blackened, she sounded all sorrow's
wide and solemn diapason; and the living sank into shadows before her mind's accentuated and
vivid picture of the dead. Future life loomed along one desolate pathway that led to pain and
shame and griefs as yet untasted. The rocks beside the way hid shadowy shapes of the unfriendly;
for no mother's kindly hand would support her, no brother's stout arm would be lifted for her
when they knew. No pure, noble, fellow-creature might be asked for aid, not one might be expected
to succour and cherish in the great strait sweeping towards her. Some indeed there were to
look to for the moment, but their voices and their eyes would harden presently, when they knew.

She told herself they must never know; and the solution to the problem of how to keep her secret
appeared upon the threshold of the unknown road her lover had already travelled. Now, at the
echo of the lowest notes, while she lay with uneven pulses and shaking limbs, it seemed that
she was faced with the parting of the ways and must make instant choice. Time would not wait
for her and cared nothing whether she chose life or death for her road. She struggled with
red thoughts, and fever burnt her lips and stabbed her forehead. Clement was gone. In this
supreme hour no fellow-creature could fortify her courage or direct her tottering judgment.
Once she thought of prayer and turned from it shuddering with a passionate determination to
pray no more. Then the vision of Death shadowed her and she felt his brief sting would be nothing
beside the endless torment of living. Dangerous thoughts developed quickly in her and grew
to giants. Something clamoured to her and cried that delay, even of hours, was impossible and
must be fatal to secrecy. A feverish yearning to get it over, and that quickly, mastered her,
and she began huddling on some clothes.

Then it was that the sudden sound of the cottage door being shut and bolted reached her ear.
Mrs. Blanchard had returned and knowing that she would approach in a moment, Chris flung herself
on the bed and pretended to be sleeping soundly. It was not until her mother withdrew and herself
slumbered half an hour later that the distracted woman arose, dressed herself, and silently
left the house as we have said.

She heard the river calling to her, and through its murmur sounded the voice of her loved one
from afar. The moon shone clear and the valley was full of vapoury gauze. A wild longing to
see him once more in the flesh before she followed him in the spirit gained upon Chris, and
she moved slowly up the hill to the village. Then, as she went, born of the mists upon the
meadows, and the great light and the moony gossamers diamonded with dew, there rose his dear
shape and moved with her along the way. But his face was hidden, and he vanished at the first
outposts of the hamlet as she passed into Chagford alone. The cottage shadows fell velvety
black in a shining silence; their thatches were streaked, their slates meshed with silver;
their whitewashed walls looked strangely awake and alert and surrounded the woman with a sort
of blind, hushed stare. One solitary patch of light peered like a weary eye from that side
of the street which lay in shadow, and Chris, passing through the unbolted cottage door, walked
up the narrow passage within and softly entered.

Condolence and tears and buzz of sorrowful friends had passed away with the stroke of midnight.
Now Mrs. Hicks sat alone with her dead and gazed upon his calm features and vaguely wondered
how, after a life of such disappointment and failure and bitter discontent, he could look so
peaceful. She knew every line that thought and trouble had ruled upon his face; she remembered
their coming; and now, between her fits of grief, she scanned him close and saw that Death
had wiped away the furrows here and there, and smoothed his forehead and rolled back the years
from off him until his face reminded her of the strange, wayward child who was wont to live
a life apart from his fellows, like some wild wood creature, and who had passed almost friendless
through his boyhood. Fully he had filled her widowed life, and been at least a loving child,
a good son. On him her withered hopes had depended, and, even in their darkest hours, he had
laughed at her dread of the workhouse, and assured her that while head and hands remained to
him she need not fear, but should enjoy the independence of a home. Now this sole prop and
stay was gone--gone, just as the black cloud had broken and Fate relented.

The old woman sat beside him stricken, shrivelled, almost reptilian in her red-eyed, motionless
misery. Only her eyes moved in her wrinkled, brown face, and reflected the candle standing
on the mantelpiece above his head. She sat with her hands crooked over one another in her lap,
like some image wrought of ebony and dark oak. Once a large house-spider suddenly and silently
appeared upon the sheet that covered the breast of the dead. It flashed along for a foot or
two, then sat motionless; and she, whose inclination was to loathe such things unutterably,
put forth her hand and caught it without a tremor and crushed it while its hairy legs wriggled
between her fingers.

To the robbed mother came Chris, silent as a ghost. Only the old woman's eyes moved as the
girl entered, fell down by the bier, and buried her face in the pillow that supported her lover's
head. Thus, in profound silence, both remained awhile, until Chris lifted herself and looked
in the dead face and almost started to see the strange content stamped on it.

Then Mrs. Hicks began to speak in a high-pitched voice which broke now and again as her bosom
heaved after past tears.

"The awnly son of his mother, an' she a widow wummon; an' theer 's no Christ now to work for
the love of the poor. I be shattered wi' many groans an' tears, Chris Blanchard, same as you
be. You knawed him--awnly you an' me; but you 'm young yet, an' memory's so weak in young brains
that you'll outlive it all an' forget."

"Never, never, mother! Theer 's no more life for me--not here. He's callin' to me--callin'
an' callin' from yonder."

"You'll outlive an' forget," repeated the other. "I cannot, bein' as I am. An', mind this,
when you pray to Heaven, ax for gold an' diamonds, ax for houses an' lands, ax for the fat
of the airth; an' ax loud. No harm in axin'. Awnly doan't pitch your prayers tu dirt low, for
ban't the hardness of a thing stops God. You 'm as likely or onlikely to get a big answer as
a little. See the blessin' flowin' in streams for some folks! They do live braave an' happy,
with gude health, an' gude wives, an' money, an' the fruits of the land; they do get butivul
childer, as graws up like the corners of the temple; an' when they come to die, they shut their
eyes 'pon kind faaces an' lie in lead an' oak under polished marble. All that be theers; an'
what was his--my son's?"

"God forgot him," sobbed Chris, "an' the world forgot him--all but you an' me."

The old woman shifted her hands wearily.

"Theer's a mort for God to bear in mind, but 't is hard, here an' there, wheer He slips awver
some lowly party an' misses a humble whisper. Clamour if you want to be heard; doan't go with
bated breath same as I done. 'T was awnly a li'l thing I axed, an' axed it twice a day on my
knees, ever since my man died twenty-three year agone. An' often as not thrice Sundays, so
you may count up the number of times I axed if you mind to. Awnly a li'l rubbishy thing you
might have thought: just to bring his fair share o' prosperity to Clem an' keep my bones out
the poorhouse at the end. But my bwoy 's brawk his neck by a cruel death, an' I must wear the
blue cotton."

"No, no, mother."

"Ess. Not that it looks so hard as it did. This makes it easy--" and she put her hand on her
son's forehead and left it there a moment.

Presently she continued:

"I axed Clem to turn the bee-butts at my sister's passing--Mrs. Lezzard. But he wouldn't; an'
now they'll be turned for him. Wise though the man was, he set no store on the dark, hidden
meaning of honey-bees at times of death. Now the creatures be masterless, same as you an' me;
an' they'll knaw it; an' you'll see many an' many a-murmuring on his graave 'fore the grass
graws green theer; for they see more 'n what we can."

She relapsed into motionless silence and, herself now wholly tearless, watched the tears of
Chris, who had sunk down on the floor between the mother and son.

"Why for do you cry an' wring your hands so hard?" she asked suddenly. "You'm awnly a girl
yet--young an' soft-cheeked wi' braave bonny eyes. Theer'll be many a man's breast for you
to comfort your head on. But me! Think o' what's tearin' my auld heart to tatters--me, so bleared
an' ugly an' lonely. God knaws God's self couldn't bring no balm to me--none, till I huddle
under the airth arter un; but you--your wound won't show by time the snaw comes again."

"You forget when you loved a man first if you says such a thing as that."

"Theer's no eternal, lasting fashion o' love but a mother's to her awn male childer," croaked
the other. "Sweethearts' love is a thing o' the blood--a trick o' Nature to tickle us poor
human things into breeding 'gainst our better wisdom; but what a mother feels doan't hang on
no such broken reed. It's deeper down; it's hell an' heaven both to wance; it's life; an' to
lose it is death. See! Essterday I'd 'a' fought an' screamed an' took on like a gude un to
be fetched away to the Union; but come they put him in the ground, I'll go so quiet as a lamb."

Another silence followed; then the aged widow pursued her theme, at first in the same dreary,
cracked monotone, then deepening to passion.

"I tell you a gude wife will do 'most anything for a husband an' give her body an' soul to
un; but she expects summat in return. She wants his love an' worship for hers; but a mother
do give all--all--all--an' never axes nothin' for it. Just a kiss maybe, an' a brightening
eye, or a kind word. That's her pay, an' better'n gawld, tu. She'm purty nigh satisfied wi'
what would satisfy a dog, come to think on it. 'T is her joy to fret an' fume an' pine o' nights
for un, an' tire the A'mighty's ear wi' plans an' suggestions for un; aye, think an' sweat
an' starve for un all times. 'T is her joy, I tell 'e, to smooth his road, an' catch the brambles
by his way an' let 'em bury their thorns in her flesh so he shaa'n't feel 'em; 't is her joy
to hear him babble of all his hopes an' delights; an' when the time comes she'll taake the
maid of his heart to her awn, though maybe 't is breakin' wi' fear that he'll forget her in
the light of the young eyes. Ax your awn mother if what I sez ban't God's truth. We as got
the bwoys be content wi' that little. We awnly want to help theer young shoulders wi' our auld
wans, to fight for 'em to the last. We'll let theer wives have the love, we will, an' ax no
questions an'--an' we'll break our hearts when the cheel 's took out o' his turn--break our
hearts by inches--same as I be doin' now."

"An' doan't I love, tu? Weern't he all the world to me, tu? Isn't my heart broken so well as
yours?" sobbed Chris.

"Hear this, you wummon as talks of a broken heart," answered the elder almost harshly. "Wait--wait
till you 'm the mother of a li'l man-cheel, an' see the shining eyes of un a-lookin' into yourn
while your nipple's bein' squeezed by his naked gums, an' you laugh at what you suffered for
un, an' hug un to you. Wait till he'm grawed from baby to bwoy, from bwoy to man; wait till
he'm all you've got left in the cold, starved winter of a sorrowful life; an' wait till he'm
brought home to 'e like this here, while you've been sittin' laughin' to yourself an' countin'
dream gawld. He told how, in order to put off his comrades, who had been charged by Manginot
to draw up a description of the fugitive, he had intentionally made
it out incorrectly, describing her "as being very stout and having
fair hair."

He talked of d'Aché whom he considered a brigand and "the sole cause of all the misfortunes
which had happened to Mme. de Combray and her family." Finally he inquired if the Captain would consent
to take Buquet and Allain to England as they were in fact two of the principal actors in the
affair, and the Captain consented very willingly. It was agreed that as soon as he had landed Mme.
Acquet in England, he should return to Saint-Valery which was his port. All Allain and Buquet
had to do, was to go to Privost, the innkeeper, opposite the post at Cany on Wednesday, the 14th,
and he would meet them and take them on board.

During luncheon Delaitre, who was obviously a messenger of Providence,
counted out 400 francs in gold on the table, and gave them to Chauvel
to pay his mistress's debts.

Vannier had claimed six louis for the hospitality he had shown her,
alleging that "this sort of lodger ought to pay more than the others
on account of the risk;" he further demanded that the cost of twenty
masses, which Mme.

Acquet had had said, should be refunded to him. Chauvel spent part of the Sunday with Delaitre;
the meeting was fixed for seven in the evening.

The Captain was to wait at the door of his inn and follow Mme. Acquet when he saw her pass with
the gendarme. No action accompanied
it; no wrinkle deepened; no line of the dejected figure lifted; but when she spoke again her
voice had greatly changed and become softer and very tremulous.

"O my dear God! 't will be a bit of Clement! Had 'e thought o' that?"

Then she rose suddenly to her feet and expression came to her face--a very wonderful expression
wherein were blended fear, awe, and something of vague but violent joy--as though one suddenly
beheld a loved ghost from the dead.

"'T is as if all of un weern't quite lost! A li'l left--a cheel of his! Wummon! You'm a holy
thing to me--a holy thing evermore! You'm bearin' sunshine for your summertime and my winter--if
God so wills!"

Then she lifted up her voice and cried to Chris with a strange cry, and knelt down at her feet
and kissed her hands and stroked them.

"Go to un," she said, leaping up; "go to Clem, an' tell un, in his ear, that I knaw. It'll
reach him if you whisper it. His soul ban't so very far aways yet. Tell un I knaw, tu--you
an' me. He'd glory that I knawed. An' pray henceforrard, as I shall, for a bwoy. Ax God for
a bwoy--ax wi'out ceasin' for a son full o' Clem. Our sorrows might win to the Everlasting
Ear this wance. But, for Christ's sake, ax like wan who has a right to, not fawning an' humble."

The woman was transfigured as the significance of this news filled her mind. She wept before
a splendid possibility. It fired her eyes and straightened her shrivelled stature. For a while
her frantic utterances almost inspired Chris with the shadow of similar emotions; but another
side of the picture knew no dawn. This the widow ignored--indeed it had not entered her head
since her first comment on the confession. Now, however, the girl reminded her,--

"You forget a little what this must be to me, mother."

"Light in darkness."

"I hadn't thought that; an the gert world won't pity me, as you did when I first told you."

"You ban't feared o' the world, be you? The world forgot un. 'T was your awn word. What's the
world to you, knawin' what you knaw? Do 'e want to be treated soft by what was allus hell-hard
to him? Four-and-thirty short years he lived, then the world beginned to ope its eyes to his
paarts, an' awnly then--tu late, when the thread of his days was spun. What's the world to
you and why should you care for its word, Chris Blanchard?"

"Because I am Chris Blanchard," she said. "I was gwaine to kill myself, but thought to see
his dear face wance more before I done it. Now--"

"Kill yourself! God's mercy! 'T will be killing Clem again if you do! You caan't; you wouldn't
dare; theer's black damnation in it an' flat murder now. Hear me, for Christ's sake, if that's
the awful thought in you: you'm God's chosen tool in this--chosen to suffer an' bring a bwoy
in the world--Clem's bwoy. Doan't you see how't is? 'Kill yourself'! How can 'e dream it? You've
got to bring a bwoy, I tell 'e, to keep us from both gwaine stark mad. 'T was foreordained
he should leave his holy likeness. God's truth! You should be proud 'stead o' fearful--such
a man as he was. Hold your head high an' pray when none's lookin', pray through every wakin'
hour an' watch yourself as you'd watch the case of a golden jewel. What wise brain will think
hard of you for followin' the chosen path? What odds if a babe's got ringless under the stars
or in a lawful four-post bed? Who married Adam an' Eve? You was the wife of un 'cordin' to
the first plan o' the livin' God; an' if He changed His lofty mind when't was tu late, blame
doan't fall on you or the dead. Think of a baaby--his baaby--under your breast! Think of meetin'
him in time to come, wi' another soul got in sheer love! Better to faace the people an' let
the bairn come to fulness o' life than fly them an' cut your days short an' go into the next
world empty-handed. Caan't you see it? What would Clem say? He'd judge you hard--such a lover
o' li'l childer as him. 'T is the first framework of an immortal soul you've got unfoldin',
like a rosebud hid in the green, an' ban't for you to nip that life for your awn whim an' let
the angels in heaven be fewer by wan. You must live. An' the bwoy'll graw into a tower of strength
for 'e--a tower of strength an' a glass belike wheer you'll see Clem rose again."

"The shame of it. My mother and Will--Will who's a hard judge, an' such a clean man."

"'Clean'! Christ A'mighty! You'd madden a saint of heaven! Weern't Clem clean, tu? If God sends
fire-fire breaks out--sweet, livin' fire. You must go through with it--aye, an' call the bwoy
Clem, tu. Be you shamed of him as he lies here? Be you feared of anything the airth can do
to you when you look at him? Do 'e think Heaven's allus hard? No, I tell 'e, not to the young--not
to the young. The wind's mostly tempered to the shorn lamb, though the auld ewe do oftentimes
sting for it, an' get the seeds o' death arter shearing. Wait, and be strong, till you feel
Clem's baaby in your arms. That'll be reward enough, an' you won't care no more for the world
then. His son, mind; who be you to take life, an' break the buds of Clem's plantin'? Worse
than to go in another's garden an' tear down green fruit."

So she pleaded volubly, with an electric increase of vitality, and continued to pour out a
torrent of words, until Chris solemnly promised, before God and the dead, that she would not
take her life. Having done so, some new design informed her.

"I must go," she said; "the moon has set and dawn is near. Dying be so easy; living so hard.
But live I will; I swear it, though theer's awnly my poor mad brain to shaw how."

"Clem's son, mind. An' let me be the first to see it, for I feel't will be the gude pleasure
of God I should."

"An' you promise to say no word, whatever betides, an' whatever you hear?"

"Dumb I'll be, as him theer--dumb, countin' the weeks an' months."

"Day's broke, an' I must go home-along," said Chris. She repeated the words mechanically, then
moved away without any formal farewell. At the door she turned, hastened back, kissed the dead
man's face again, and then departed, while the other woman looked at her but spoke no more.

Alone, with the struggle over and her object won, the mother shrank and dwindled again and
grew older momentarily. Then she relapsed into the same posture as before, and anon, tears
bred of new thoughts began to trickle painfully from their parched fountains. She did not move,
but let them roll unwiped away. Presently her head sank back, her cap fell off and white hair
dropped about her face.

Fingers of light seemed lifting the edges of the blind. They gained strength as the candle
waned, and presently at cock-crow, when unnumbered clarions proclaimed morning, grey dawn with
golden eyes brightened upon a dead man and an ancient woman fast asleep beside him.

CHAPTER XVII

MISSING

John Grimbal, actuated by some whim, or else conscious that under the circumstances decorum
demanded his attendance, was present at the funeral of Clement Hicks. Some cynic interest he
derived from the spectacle of young Blanchard among the bearers; and indeed, as may be supposed,
few had felt this tragic termination of his friend's life more than Will. Very genuine remorse
darkened his days, and he blamed himself bitterly enough for all past differences with the
dead. It was in a mood at once contrite and sorrowful that he listened to the echo of falling
clod, and during that solemn sound mentally traversed the whole course of his relations with
his sister's lover. Of himself he thought not at all, and no shadowy suspicion of relief crossed
his mind upon the reflection that the knowledge of those fateful weeks long past was now unshared.
In all his quarrels with Clement, no possibility of the man breaking his oath once troubled
Will's mind; and now profound sorrow at his friend's death and deep sympathy with Chris were
the emotions that entirely filled the young farmer's heart.

Grimbal watched his enemy as the service beside the grave proceeded. Once a malignant thought
darkened his face, and he mused on what the result might be if he hinted to Blanchard the nature
of his frustrated business with Hicks at Oke Tor. All Chagford had heard was that the master
of the Red House intended to accept Clement Hicks as tenant of his home farm. The fact surprised
many, but none looked behind it for any mystery, and Will least of all. Grimbal's thoughts
developed upon his first idea; and he asked himself the consequence if, instead of telling
Blanchard that he had gone to learn his secret, he should pretend that it was already in his
possession. The notion shone for a moment only, then went out. First it showed itself absolutely
futile, for he could do no more than threaten, and the other must speedily discover that in
reality he knew nothing; and secondly, some shadow of feeling made Grimbal hesitate. His desire
for revenge was now developing on new lines, and while his purpose remained unshaken, his last
defeat had taught him patience. Partly from motives of policy, partly, strange as it may seem,
from his instincts as a sportsman, he determined to let the matter of Hicks lie buried. For
the dead man's good name he cared nothing, however, and victory over Will was only the more
desired for this postponement. His black tenacity of purpose won strength from the repulse,
but the problem for the time being was removed from its former sphere of active hatred towards
his foe. How long this attitude would last, and what idiosyncrasy of character led to it, matters
little. The fact remained that Grimbal's mental posture towards Blanchard now more nearly resembled
that which he wore to his other interests in life. The circumstance still stood first, but
partook of the nature of his emotions towards matters of sport. When a heavy trout had beaten
him more than once, Grimbal would repair again and again to its particular haunt and leave
no legitimate plan for its destruction untried. But any unsportsmanlike method of capturing
or slaying bird, beast, or fish enraged him. So he left the churchyard with a sullen determination
to pursue his sinister purpose straightforwardly.

All interested in Clement Hicks attended the funeral, including his mother and Chris. The last
had yielded to Mrs. Blanchard's desire and promised to stop at home; but she changed her mind
and conducted herself at the ceremony with a stoic fortitude. This she achieved only by an
effort of will which separated her consciousness entirely from her environment and alike blinded
her eyes and deafened her ears to the mournful sights and sounds around her. With her own future
every fibre of her mind was occupied; and as they lowered her lover's coffin into the earth
a line of action leapt into her brain.

Less than four-and-twenty hours later it seemed that the last act of the tragedy had begun.
Then, hoarse as the raven that croaked Duncan's coming, Mr. Blee returned to Monks Barton from
an early visit to the village. Phoebe was staying with her father for a fortnight, and it was
she who met the old man as he paddled breathlessly home.

"More gert news!" he gasped; "if it ban't too much for wan in your way o' health."

"Nothing wrong at Newtake?" cried Phoebe, turning pale.

"No, no; but family news for all that."

The girl raised her hand to her heart, and Miller Lyddon, attracted by Billy's excited voice,
hastened to his daughter and put his arm round her.

"Out with it," he said. "I see news in 'e. What's the worst or best?"

"Bad, bad as heart can wish. A peck o' trouble, by the looks of it. Chris Blanchard be gone--vanished
like a dream! Mother Blanchard called her this marnin', an' found her bed not so much as creased.
She've flown, an' there's a braave upstore 'bout it, for every Blanchard's wrong in the head
more or less, beggin' your pardon, missis, as be awnly wan by marriage."

"But no sign? No word or anything left?"

"Nothing; an' theer's a purty strong faith she'm in the river, poor lamb. Theer's draggin'
gwaine to be done in the ugly bits. I heard tell of it to the village, wheer I'd just stepped
up to see auld Lezzard moved to the work'ouse. A wonnerful coorious, rackety world, sure 'nough!
Do make me giddy."

"Does Will know?" asked Mr. Lyddon.

"His mother's sent post-haste for un. I doubt he 'm to the cottage by now. Such a gude, purty
gal as she was, tu! An' so mute as a twoad at the buryin', wi' never a tear to soften the graave
dust. For why? She knawed she'd be alongside her man again 'fore the moon waned. An' I hope
she may be. But 't was cross-roads an' a hawthorn stake in my young days. Them barbarous ancient
fashions be awver, thank God, though whether us lives in more religious times is a question,
when you see the things what happens every hour on the twenty-four."

"I must go to them," cried Phoebe.

"I'll go; you stop at home quietly, and don't fret your mind," answered her father.

"Us must all do what us can--every manjack. I be gwaine corpse-searchin' down valley wi' Chapple,
an' that 'mazin' water-dog of hisn; an' if 't is my hand brings her out the Teign, 't will
be done in a kind, Christian manner, for she's in God's image yet, same as us; an' ugly though
a drownin' be, it won't turn me from my duty."

BOOK III

HIS GRANITE CROSS

CHAPTER I

BABY

Succeeding upon the tumultuous incidents of Clement's death and Chris Blanchard's disappearance,
there followed a period of calm in the lives of those from whom this narrative is gleaned.
Such transient peace proved the greater in so far as Damaris and her son were concerned, by
reason of an incident which befell Will on the evening of his sister's departure. Dead she
certainly was not, nor did she mean to die; for, upon returning to Newtake after hours of fruitless
searching, Blanchard found a communication awaiting him there, though no shadow of evidence
was forthcoming to show how it had reached the farm. Upon the ledge of the window he discovered
it when he returned, and read the message at a glance:

"Don't you nor mother fear nothing for me, nor seek me out, for it would be vain. I'm well,
and I'm so happy as ever I shall be, and perhaps I'll come home-along some day.--CHRIS."

On this challenge Will acted, ignored his sister's entreaty to attempt no such thing, and set
out upon a resolute search of nearly two months' duration. He toiled amain into the late autumn,
but no hint or shadow of her rewarded the quest, and sustained failure in an enterprise where
his heart was set, for his mother's sake and his own, acted upon the man's character, and indeed
wrought marked changes in him. Despite the letter of Chris, hope died in Will, and he openly
held his sister dead; but Mrs. Blanchard, while sufficiently distressed before her daughter's
flight, never feared for her life, and doubted not that she would return in such time as it
pleased her to do so.

"Her nature be same as yours an' your faither's afore you. When he'd got the black monkey on
his shoulder he'd oftentimes leave the vans for a week and tramp the very heart o' the Moor
alone. Fatigue of body often salves a sore mind. He loved thunder o' dark nights--my husband
did--and was better for it seemin'ly. Chris be safe, I do think, though it's a heart-deep stroke
this for me, 'cause I judge she caan't 'zactly love me as I thought, or else she'd never have
left me. Still, the cold world, what she knaws so little 'bout, will drive her back to them
as love her, come presently."

So, with greater philosophy than her son could muster, Damaris practised patience; while Will,
after a perambulation of the country from north to south, from west to east, after weeks on
the lonely heaths and hiding-places of the ultimate Moor, after visits to remote hamlets and
inquiries at a hundred separate farmhouses, returned to Newtake, worn, disappointed, and gloomy
to a degree beyond the experience of those who knew him. Neither did the cloud speedily evaporate,
as was most usual with his transient phases of depression. Circumstances combined to deepen
it, and as the winter crowded down more quickly than usual, its leaden months of scanty daylight
and cold rains left their mark on Will as time had never done before.

During those few and sombre days which represented the epact of the dying year, Martin Grimbal
returned to Chagford. He had extended his investigations beyond the time originally allotted
to them, and now came back to his home with plenty of fresh material, and even one or two new
theories for his book. He had received no communications during his absence, and the news of
the bee-keeper's death and his sweetheart's disappearance, suddenly delivered by his housekeeper,
went far to overwhelm him. It danced joy up again through the grey granite. For a brief hour
splendid vistas of happiness reopened, and his laborious life swept suddenly into a bright
region that he had gazed into longingly aforetime and lost for ever. He fought with himself
to keep down this rosy-fledged hope; but it leapt in him, a young giant born at a word. The
significance of the freedom of Chris staggered him. To find her was the cry of his heart, and,
as Will had done before him, he straightway set out upon a systematic attempt to discover the
missing girl. Of such uncertain temper was Blanchard's mind at this season, however, that he
picked a quarrel out of Martin's design, and questioned the antiquary's right to busy himself
upon an undertaking which the brother of Chris had already failed to accomplish.

"She belonged to me, not to you," he said, "an' I done all a man could do to find her. See
her again we sha'n't, that's my feelin', despite what she wrote to me and left so mysterious
on the window. Madness comed awver her, I reckon, an' she've taken her life, an' theer ban't
no call for you or any other man to rip up the matter again. Let it bide as 't is. Such black
doin's be best set to rest."

But, while Martin did not seek or desire Will's advice in the matter, he was surprised at the
young farmer's attitude, and it extracted something in the nature of a confession from him,
for there was little, he told himself, that need longer be hidden from the woman's brother.

"I can speak now, at least to you, Will," he said. The fight at Modder River had demonstrated
the advantage of placing the main firing line so that it should just be able to graze the surface
of the country over which the British had to advance. He therefore proposed to hold the ground,
now to be occupied, in a similar manner. In the centre, Magersfontein Hill, a grim and rock-bound
kopje, rises precipitously from the veld and dominates the plain,
six miles in width, which stretches from its foot to the Modder River
bridge.

From this hill the Boer line extended five miles north-west to Langeberg farm along the foot of a
series of kopjes, in some places sufficiently well defined to be marked on map No. 13, in others
mere hillocks, but together forming a continuous and formidable line of defence across the railway.
From the south-east of Magersfontein Hill a low scrub-covered spur, or ridge, three miles in
length, runs southward to Moss Drift on the Modder.

Though not of sufficient height to be fully shown upon the map, it exercised an important influence
upon the course of the battle. From the river the ground rises gradually towards the heights
of Magersfontein. There are two well-marked knolls upon its surface; one, equidistant between
the kopjes and the railway bridge, was chosen by Lord Methuen to be his Headquarters for the
coming battle; the other, about a mile to the southward of the main
hill, was held by the Horse artillery battery during the engagement.

The greater part of the plain was comparatively free from scrub, but in the neighbourhood of
the low ridge the bush was thick enough to retard the movement of the troops, and in places it was
so dense as to limit the range of vision to a few yards. Nor was the scrub the only obstacle
for the assailants-- two high wire fences crossed the plain; one,
stretching away towards the north-east, marked the frontier of the
Orange Free State; while the other ran across the trenches which guarded
the centre of the Boer position.

The reproduction of the freehand sketch of Magersfontein will show the strength of the ground
taken up by the enemy.

[Sidenote: Boers gather from all quarters.

Their occupation of the ground.] During the twelve days which elapsed between the engagement at the Modder
and the battle of Magersfontein large reinforcements reached General Cronje. These additions
to his army were chiefly due to the energy of President Steyn, who ordered up every available burgher
to oppose the British advance. Parties of men summoned from the commandos watching the Basuto border;
the Bloemhof and Wolmaranstad commandos, and detachments of Free Staters, were marched southward from
the investment of Kimberley; and the Heilbron, Kroonstad, and Bethlehem commandos, detached
from the Boer camps in Natal, increased Cronje's righting power.

Nor were the exertions of the President of the Orange Free State confined to hurrying fresh troops
to the point of immediate danger, for realising that the moral of
the Boers had been shaken by the losses they had already sustained,
he went down to the laager on the 5th December, and by his fiery eloquence
infused fresh life into the somewhat depressed burghers.

Into Monks Barton the farmer presently clattered, threw himself off his horse, tramped indoors,
and shouted for his father-in-law in tones that made the oak beams ring. Then the miller, with
Mr. Blee behind him, hastened to hear what Will had come to tell.

"All right, all right with Phoebe?" were Mr. Lyddon's first words, and he was white and shaking
as he put the question.

"Right as ninepence, faither--gran'faither, I should say. A butivul li'l man she've got--out
o' the common fine, Parsons says, as ought to knaw--fat as a slug wi' 'mazin' dark curls on
his wee head, though my mother says 'tis awnly a sort o' catch-crop, an' not the lasting hair
as'll come arter."

"A bwoy! Glory be!" said Mr. Blee. "If theer's awnly a bit o' the gracious gudeness of his
gran'faither in un, 'twill prove a prosperous infant."

"Thank God for a happy end to all my prayers," said Mr. Lyddon. "Billy, get Will something
to eat an' drink. I guess he's hungry an' starved."

"Caan't eat, Miller; but I'll have a drop of the best, if it's all the same to you. Us must
drink their healths, both of 'em. As for me 'tis a gert thing to be the faither of a cheel
as'll graw into a man some day, an' may even be a historical character, awnly give un time."

"So 'tis a gert thing. Sit down; doan't tramp about. I lay you've been on your feet enough
these late hours."

Will obeyed, but proceeded with his theme, and though his feet were still his hands were not.

"Us be faced wi' the upbringing an' edication of un. I mean him to be brought up to a power
o' knowledge, for theer's nothin' like it. Doan't you think I be gwaine to shirk doin' the
right thing by un', Miller, 'cause it aint so. If 'twas my last fi'-pun' note was called up
for larnin' him, he'd have it."

"Theer's no gert hurry yet," declared Billy. "Awnly you'm right to look in the future and weigh
the debt every man owes to the cheel he gets. He'll never cost you less thought or halfpence
than he do to-day, an', wi'out croakin' at such a gay time, I will say he'll graw into a greater
care an' trouble, every breath he draws."

"Not him! Not the way I'm gwaine to bring un up. Stern an' strict an' no nonsense, I promise 'e"

"That's right. Tame un from the breast. I'd like for my paart to think as the very sapling
be grawin' now as'll give his li'l behind its fust lesson in the ways o' duty," declared Mr.
Blee. "Theer 's certain things you must be flint-hard about, an' fust comes lying. Doan't let
un lie; flog it out of un; an' mind, 'tis better for your arm to ache than for his soul to burn."

"You leave me to do right by un. You caan't teach me, Billy, not bein' a parent; though I allow
what you say is true enough."

"An' set un to work early; get un into ways o' work so soon as he's able to wear corduroys.
An' doan't never let un be cruel to beastes; an' doan't let un--"

"Theer, theer!" cried Mr. Lyddon. "Have done with 'e! You speak as fules both, settin' out
rules o' life for an hour-old babe. You talk to his mother about taming of un an' grawing saplings
for his better bringing-up. She'll tell 'e a thing or two. Just mind the slowness o' growth
in the human young. 'T will be years before theer's enough of un to beat."

"They do come very gradual to fulness o' body an' reason," admitted Billy; "and 't is gude
it should be so; 't is well all men an' women 's got to be childer fust, for they brings brightness
an' joy 'pon the earth as babies, though 't is mostly changed when they 'm grawed up. If us
could awnly foretell the turnin' out o' childern, an' knaw which 't was best to drown an' which
to save in tender youth, what a differ'nt world this would be!"

"They 'm poor li'l twoads at fust, no doubt," said Will to his father-in-law.

"Ess, indeed they be. 'T is a coorious circumstance, but generally allowed, that humans are
the awnly creatures o' God wi' understandin', an' yet they comes into the world more helpless
an' brainless, an' bides longer helpless an' brainless than any other beast knawn."

"Shouldn't call 'em 'beastes' 'zactly, seem' they've got the Holy Ghost from the church font
ever after," objected Billy. "'T is the differ'nce between a babe an' a pup or a kitten. The
wan gets God into un at christenin', t' other wouldn't have no Holy Ghost in un if you baptised
un over a hunderd times. For why? They 'm not built in the Image."

"When all's said, you caan't look tu far ahead or be tu forehanded wi' bwoys," resumed Will.
"Gallopin' down-long I said to myself, 'Theer's things he may do an' things he may not do.
He shall choose his awn road in reason, but he must be guided by me in the choice.' I won't
let un go for a sailor--never. I'll cut un off wi' a shillin' if he thinks of it."

"Time enough when he can walk an' talk, I reckon," said Billy, who, seeing how his master viewed
the matter, now caught Mr. Lyddon's manner.

"Ess, that's very well," continued Will, "but time flies that fast wi' childer. Then I thought,
'He'll come to marry some day, sure's Fate.' Myself, I believe in tolerable early marryin's."

"By God! I knaw it!" retorted Mr. Lyddon, with an expression wherein appeared mingled feelings
not a few; "Ess, fay! You'm right theer. I should take Time by the forelock if I was you, an'
see if you can find a maiden as'll suit un while you go back-along through the village."

"Awnly, as 'tis better for the man to number more years than the wummon," added Billy, "it
might be wise to bide a week or two, so's he shall have a bit start of his lady."

"Now, you'm fulin me! An' I caan't stay no more whether or no, 'cause I was promised to see
Phoebe an' my son in the arternoon. Us be gwaine to call un Vincent William Blanchard, arter
you an' me, Miller; an' if it had been a gal, us meant to call un arter mother; an' I do thank
God 'bout the wee bwoy in all solemn soberness, 'cause 'tis the fust real gude thing as have
falled to us since the gwaine of poor Chris. 'Twill be a joy to my mother an' a gude gran'son
to you, I hope."

"Go home, go home," said Mr. Lyddon. "Get along with 'e this minute, an' tell your wife I'm
greatly pleased, an' shall come to see her mighty soon. Let us knaw every day how she fares--an'--an'--I'm
glad as you called the laddie arter me. 'Twas a seemly thought."

Will departed, and his mind roamed over various splendid futures for his baby. Already he saw
it a tall, straight, splendid man, not a hair shorter than his own six feet two inches. He
hoped that it would possess his natural wisdom, augmented by Phoebe's marvellous management
of figures and accounts. He also desired for it a measure of his mother's calm and stately
self-possession before the problems of life, and he had no objection that his son should reflect
Miller Lyddon's many and amiable virtues.

He returned home, and his mother presently bid him come to see Phoebe. Then a sudden nervousness
overtook Will, tough though he was. The door shut, and husband and wife were alone together,
for Damaris disappeared. But where were all those great and splendid pictures of the future?
Vanished, vanished in a mist. Will's breast heaved; he saw Phoebe's star-bright eyes peeping
at him, and he touched the treasure beside her--oh, so small it was!

He bent his head low over them, kissed his wife shyly, and peeped with proper timidity under
the flannel.

"Look, look, Will, dearie! Did 'e ever see aught like un? An' come evenin', he 'm gwaine to
have his fust li'l drink!"

CHAPTER II

THE KNIGHT OF FORLORN HOPES

The child brought all a child should bring to Newtake, though it could not hide the fact that
Will Blanchard drifted daily a little nearer to the end of his resources. But occasional success
still flattered his ambition, and he worked hard and honestly. In this respect at least the
man proved various fears unfounded, yet the result of his work rarely took shape of sovereigns.
He marvelled at the extraordinary steadiness with which ill-fortune clung to Newtake and cursed
when, on two quarter-days out of the annual four, another dip had to be made into the dwindling
residue of his uncle's bequest. Some three hundred pounds yet remained when young Blanchard
entered upon a further stage of his career,--that most fitly recorded as happening within the
shadow of a granite cross.

After long months of absence from home, Martin Grimbal returned, silent, unsuccessful, and
sad. Upon the foundations of facts he had built many tentative dwelling-places for hope; but
all had crumbled, failure crowned his labours, and as far from the reach of his discovery seemed
the secret of Chris as the secrets of the sacred circles, stone avenues, and empty, hypaethral
chambers of the Moor. Spiritless and bitterly discouraged, he returned after such labours as
Will had dreamed not of; and his life, succeeding upon this deep disappointment, seemed far
advanced towards its end in Martin's eyes--a journey whose brightest incidents, happiest places
of rest, most precious companions were all left behind. This second death of hope aged the
man in truth and sowed his hair with grey. Now only a melancholy memory of one very beautiful
and very sad remained to him. Chris indeed promised to return, but he told himself that such
a woman had never left an unhappy mother for such period of time if power to come home still
belonged to her. Then, surveying the past, he taxed himself heavily with a deliberate and cruel
share in it. Why had he taken the advice of Blanchard and delayed his offer of work to Hicks?
He told himself that it was because he knew such a step would definitely deprive him of Chris
for ever; and therein he charged himself with offences that his nature was above committing.
Then he burst into bitter blame of Will, and at a weak moment--for nothing is weaker than the
rare weakness of a strong man--he childishly upbraided the farmer with that fateful advice
concerning Clement, and called down upon his head deep censure for the subsequent catastrophe.
Will, as may be imagined, proved not slow to resent such an attack with heart and voice. A
great heat of vain recrimination followed, and the men broke into open strife.

Sick with himself at this pitiable lapse, shaken in his self-respect, desolate, unsettled,
and uncertain of the very foundations on which he had hitherto planted his life, the elder
man existed through a black month, then braced himself again, looked out into the world, set
his dusty desk in order, and sought once more amidst the relics of the past for comfort and
consolation. He threw himself upon his book and told himself that it must surely reward his
pains; he toiled mightily at his lonely task, and added a little to man's knowledge.

Once it happened that the Rev. Shorto-Champernowne met Martin. Riding over the Moor after a
visit to his clerical colleague of Gidleigh, the clergyman trotted through Scorhill Circle,
above northern Teign, and seeing a well-known parishioner, drew up a while.

"How prosper your profound studies?" he inquired. "Do these evidences of aboriginal races lead
you to any conclusions of note? For my part, I am not wholly devoid of suspicion that a man
might better employ his time, though I should not presume to make any such suggestion to you."

"You may be right; but one is generally unwise to stamp on his ruling passion if it takes him
along an intellectual road. These cryptic stones are my life. I want to get the secret of them
or find at least a little of it. What are these lonely rings? Where are we standing now? In
a place of worship, where men prayed to the thunder and the sun and stars? Or a council chamber?
Or a court of justice, that has seen many a doom pronounced, much red blood flow? Or is it
a grave? 'T is the fashion to reject the notion that they represent any religious purpose;
yet I cannot see any argument against the theory. I go on peeping and prying after a spark
of truth. I probe here, and in the fallen circle yonder towards Cosdon; I follow the stone
rows to Fernworthy; I trudge again and again to the Grey Wethers--that shattered double ring
on Sittaford Tor. I eat them up with my eyes and repeople the heath with those who raised them.
Some clay a gleam of light may come. And if it does, it will reach me through deep study on
those stone men of old. It is along the human side of my investigations I shall learn, if I
learn anything at all."

"I hope you may achieve your purpose, though the memoranda and data are scanty. Your name is
mentioned in the Western Morning News as a painstaking inquirer."

"Yet when theories demand proof--that's the rub!"

"Yes, indeed. You are a knight of forlorn hopes, Grimbal," answered the Vicar, alluding to
Martin's past search for Chris as much as to his present archaeologic ambitions. Then he trotted
on over the river, and the pedestrian remained as before seated upon a recumbent stone in the
midst of the circle of Scorhill. Silent he sat and gazed into the lichens of grey and gold
that crowned each rude pillar of the lonely ring. These, as it seemed, were the very eyes of
the granite, but to Martin they represented but the cloak of yesterday, beneath which centuries
of secrets were hidden. Only the stones and the eternal west wind, that had seen them set up
and still blew over them, could tell him anything he sought to know.

"A Knight of Forlorn Hopes," mused the man. "So it is, so it is. The grasshopper, rattling
his little kettledrum there, knows nearly as much of this hoary secret as I do; and the bird,
that prunes his wing on the porphyry, and is gone again. Not till some Damnonian spirit rises
from the barrow, not till some chieftain of these vanished hosts shall take shape out of the
mists and speak, may we glean a grain of this buried knowledge. And who to-day would believe
ten thousand Damnonian ghosts, if they stirred here once again and thronged the Moor and the
moss and the ruined stone villages with their moonbeam shapes?

"Gone for ever; and she--my Chris--my dear--is she to dwell in the darkness for all time, too?
O God, I would rather hear one whisper of her voice, feel one touch of her brown hand, than
learn the primal truth of every dumb stone wonder in the world!"

CHAPTER III

CONCERNING THE GATE-POST

So that good store of roots and hay continue for the cattle during those months of early spring
while yet the Moor is barren; so that the potato-patch prospers and the oats ripen well; so
that neither pony nor bullock is lost in the shaking bogs, and late summer is dry enough to
allow of ample peat-storing--when all these conditions prevail, your moorman counts his year
a fat one. The upland farmers of Devon are in great measure armed against the bolts of chance
by the nature of their lives, the grey character of even their most cheerful experiences and
the poverty of their highest ambitions. Their aspirations, becoming speedily cowed by ill-requited
toil and eternal hardship, quickly dwarf and shrink, until even the most sanguine seldom extend
hope much beyond necessity.

Will grumbled, growled, and fought on, while Phoebe, who knew how nobly the valleys repaid
husbandry, mourned in secret that his energetic labours here could but produce such meagre
results. Very gradually their environment stamped its frosty seal on man and woman; and by
the time that little Will was two years old his parents viewed life, its good and its evil,
much as other Moor folks contemplated it. Phoebe's heart was still sweet enough, but she grew
more selfish for herself and her own, more self-centred in great Will and little Will. They
filled her existence to the gradual exclusion of wider sympathies. Miller Lyddon had given
his grandson a silver mug on the day he was baptised, though since that time the old man held
more aloof from the life of Newtake than Phoebe understood. Sometimes she wondered that he
had never offered to assist her husband practically, but Will much resented the suggestion
when Phoebe submitted it to him. There was no need for any such thing, he declared. As for
him, transitory ambitions and hopes gleamed up in his career as formerly, though less often.
So man and wife found their larger natures somewhat crushed by the various immediate problems
that each day brought along with it. Beyond the narrow horizon of their own concerns they rarely
looked, and Chagford people, noting the change, declared that life at Newtake was tying their
tongues and lining their foreheads. Will certainly grew more taciturn, less free of advice,
perhaps less frank than formerly. A sort of strangeness shadowed him, and only his mother or
his son could dispel it. The latter soon learnt to understand his father's many moods, and
would laugh or cry, show joy or fear, according to the tune of the man's voice.

There came an evening in mid-September when Will sat at the open hearth and smoked, with his
eyes fixed on a fire of scads.[13] He remained very silent, and Phoebe, busy about a small
coat of red cloth, to keep the cold from her little son's bones during the coming winter, knew
that it was not one of her husband's happiest evenings. His eyes were looking through the fire
and the wall behind it, through the wastes and wildernesses beyond, through the granite hills
to the far-away edge of the world, where Fate sat spinning the threads of the lives of his
loved ones. Threads they looked, in his gloomy survey of that night, much deformed with knot
and tangle, for the Spinner cared nothing at all about them. She suffered each to wind heedlessly
away; she minded not that they were ugly; she spared no strand of gold or silver from her skein
of human happiness to brighten the grey fabric of them. So it seemed to Will, and his temper
chimed with the rough night. The wind howled and growled down the chimney, uttered many a sudden
yell and ghostly moan, struck with claws invisible at the glowing heart of the peat fire, and
sent red sparks dancing from a corona of faint blue flame.

[13] Scad = the outer rind of the peat, with ling and grass still adhering to it.

"Winter's comin' quick," said Phoebe, biting her thread.

"Ess, winter's allus comin' up here. The fight begins again so soon as ever 't is awver--again
and again and again, 'cordin' to the workin' years of a man's life. Then he turns on his back
for gude an' all, an' takes his rest, wheer theer's no more seasons, nor frost, nor sunshine,
in the world under."

"You'm glumpy, dear heart. What's amiss? What's crossed 'e? Tell me, an' I lay I'll find a
word to smooth it away. Nothin' contrary happened to market?"

"No, no--awnly my nature. When the wind's spelling winter in the chimbley, an' the yether's
dead again, 't is wisht lookin' forrard. The airth 's allus dyin', an' the life of her be that
short, an' grubbing of bare food an' rent out of her is sour work after many years. Thank God
I'm a hopeful, far-seem' chap, an' sound as a bell; but I doan't make money for all my sweat,
that's the mystery."

"You will some day. Luck be gwaine to turn 'fore long, I hope. An' us have got what's better
'n money, what caan't be bought."

"The li'l bwoy?"

"Aye; if us hadn't nothin' but him, theer's many would envy our lot."

"Childer's no such gert blessin', neither."

"Will! How can you say it?"

"I do say it. We 'm awnly used to keep up the breed, then thrawed o' wan side. I'm sick o'
men an' women folks. Theer's too many of 'em."

"But childer--our li'l Will. The moosic of un be sweeter than song o' birds all times, an'
you'd be fust to say so if you wasn't out of yourself."

"He 'm a braave, small lad enough; but theer again! Why should he have been pitched into this
here home? He might have been put in a palace just as easy, an' born of a royal queen mother,
'stead o' you; he might have opened his eyes 'pon marble walls an' jewels an' precious stones,
'stead of whitewash an' a peat fire. Be that baaby gwaine to thank us for bringing him in the
world, come he graw up? Not him! Why should he?"

"But he will. We 'm his faither an' mother. Do 'e love your mother less for bearin' you in
a gypsy van? Li'l Will's to pay us noble for all our toil some day, an' be a joy to our grey
hairs an' a prop to our auld age, please God."

"Ha, ha!--story-books! Gi' me a cup o' milk; then us'll go to bed."

She obeyed; he piled turf upon the hearth, to keep the fire alight until morning, then took
up the candle and followed Phoebe through another chamber, half-scullery, half-storehouse,
into which descended the staircase from above. Here hung the pale carcase of a newly slain
pig, suspended by its hind legs from a loop in the ceiling; and Phoebe, many of whose little
delicacies of manner had vanished of late, patted the carcase lovingly, like the good farmer's
wife she was.

"Wish theer was more so big in the sties," she said.

Arrived at her bedside, the woman prayed before sinking to rest within reach of her child's
cot; while Will, troubling Heaven with no petition or thanksgiving, was in bed five minutes
sooner than his wife.

"Gude-night, lad," said Phoebe, as she put the candle out, but her husband only returned an
inarticulate grunt for answer, being already within the portal of sleep.

A fair morning followed on the tempestuous night, and Winter, who had surely whispered her
coming under the darkness, vanished again at dawn. The Moor still provided forage, but all
light was gone out of the heather, though the standing fern shone yellow under the sun, and
the recumbent bracken shed a rich russet in broad patches over the dewy green where Will had
chopped it down and left it to dry for winter fodder. He was very late this year in stacking
the fern, and designed that labour for his morning's occupation.

Ted Chown chanced to be away for a week's holiday, so Will entered his farmyard early. The
variable weather of his mind rarely stood for long at storm, but, unlike the morning, he had
awakened in no happy mood.

A child's voice served for a time to smooth his brow, now clouded from survey of a broken spring
in his market-cart; then came the lesser Will with a small china mug for his morning drink.
Phoebe watched him sturdily tramp across the yard, and the greater Will laughed to see his
son's alarm before the sudden stampede of a belated heifer, which now hastened through the
open gate to join its companions on the hillside.

"Cooshey, cooshey won't hurt 'e, my li'l bud!" cried Phoebe, as Ship jumped and barked at the
lumbering beast. Then the child doubled round a dung-heap and fled to his father's arms. From
the byre a cow with a full udder softly lowed, and now small Will had a cup of warm milk; then,
with his red mouth like a rosebud in mist and his father's smile magically and laughably reproduced
upon his little face, he trotted back to his mother.

A moment later Will, still milking, heard himself loudly called from the gate. The voice he
knew well enough, but it was pitched unusually high, and denoted a condition of excitement
and impatience very seldom to be met with in its possessor. Martin Grimbal, for it was he,
did not observe Blanchard, as the farmer emerged from the byre. His eye was bent in startled
and critical scrutiny of a granite post, to which the front gate of Newtake latched, and he
continued shouting aloud until Will stood beside him. Then he appeared on his hands and knees
beside the gate-post. He had flung down his stick and satchel; his mouth was slightly open;
his cap rested on the side of his head; his face seemed transfigured before some overwhelming
discovery.

Relations were still strained between these men; and Will did not forget the fact, though it
had evidently escaped Martin in his present excitement.

"What the deuce be doin' now?" asked Blanchard abruptly.

"Man alive! A marvel! Look here--to think I have passed this stone a hundred times and never
noticed!"

He rose, brushed his muddy knees, still gazing at the gate-post, then took a trowel from his
bag and began to cut away the turf about the base of it.

"Let that bide!" called out the master sharply. "What be 'bout, delving theer?"

"I forgot you didn't know. I was coming to see you on my way to the Moor. I wanted a drink
and a handshake. We mustn't be enemies, and I'm heartily sorry for what I said--heartily. But
here's a fitting object to build new friendship on. I just caught sight of the incisions through
a fortunate gleam of early morning light. Come this side and see for yourself. To think you
had what a moorman would reckon good fortune at your gate and never guessed it!"

"Fortune at my gate? Wheer to? I aint heard nothin' of it."

"Here, man, here! D' you see this post?"

"Not bein' blind, I do."

"Yet you were blind, and so was I. There 's excuse for you--none for me. It's a cross! Yes,
a priceless old Christian cross, buried here head downward by some profane soul in the distant
past, who found it of size and shape to make a gate-post. They are common enough in Cornwall,
but very rare in Devon. It's a great--a remarkable discovery in fact, and I'm right glad I
found it on your threshold; for we may be friends again beside this symbol fittingly enough--eh,
Will?" 

[Sidenote: Healthy theatre sole favour for invader.] As a theatre
of war South Africa had one advantage, that it was for the most part
eminently healthy.

Enteric fever, the scourge of armies, was bound to be prevalent amongst
thousands exposed to hardships in a country where the water supply
was indifferent, where sanitation was usually primitive amongst the
inhabitants, and impossible to improvise hurriedly.

But the purity of the air, the geniality of the temperature, the cool nights, the brilliant sunshine,
and the hard dry soil were palliatives of evils inseparable from all
campaigning. Otherwise, for regular armies of invasion, South Africa was unfavourable.
The railways were so few that the business of supply and movement
was always arduous; spaces so vast that large forces were swallowed
up; the enormous distances from one strategical point to another,
intensified, in difficulty by the almost entire absence of good roads,
the scarcity of substantial bridges, of well-built towns, of commodious
harbours, and of even such ordinary necessaries as flour or fuel,
all these complicated every military problem to a degree not readily
intelligible to the student of European warfare alone.

[Sidenote: The central plateau.] It is not easy to sum up briefly the typical qualities as
a fighting area of a region so vast and diversified as South Africa; but its dominant feature is undoubtedly
the great central plateau comprising southern Rhodesia, all the Transvaal, except a narrow fringe
on the eastward, the Bechuanaland Protectorate, the Orange Free State, and the northern and central
portions of Cape Colony. Westward this tableland slopes gradually and imperceptibly to sea level; to the
south it reaches the Atlantic in the series of terraces and escarpments already described. Eastward it
is shut in by the Drakensberg, whose spurs, projecting to the Indian Ocean, traverse at right angles
Natal, Zululand, Swaziland, and Portuguese East Africa. [Sidenote: Effect on operations of plateau.]
Upon the central South African plateau tactical and strategical success
is dependent upon rapid manoeuvring.

Positions are so readily turned that they can seldom be resolutely
held.

It is difficult, therefore, to bring an evasive enemy to decisive action, and the fruits of victory
must chiefly be plucked by pursuit. The horse is as important as the man, and the infantry
arm is reduced to the position of a first reserve, or to the rôle of piquets on the lines of communication,
which remain always open to attack. Superior numbers and, above all, superior speed, are irresistible.
There are no first-class physical obstacles; the rivers, excepting only the Orange and the Vaal,
are, as a rule, fordable; the hill features for the most part insignificant or easy to mask.
Mobility is thus at once the chief enemy and aid to military success. [Sidenote: and of lower spurs.]
But on the stairway descending from the south of this plateau, and
on the spurs reaching up from the coast on the east, all this is
reversed.

The approach of an army acting on the offensive, uphill or across
the series of ridges, is commanded by so many points, that a small
number of defenders can readily arrest its advance.

Position leads but to position, and these, prolonged almost indefinitely on either flank, are not
readily turned, or, if turned, still offer locally a strong frontal
defence, should the enemy be sufficiently mobile to reach them in
time.

Streamlets, which would be negligible on the plateau, become formidable obstacles in their deep beds.
The horseman's occupation is greatly limited, for he can neither
reconnoitre nor gallop.

Marches must, therefore, be made painfully in battle formation, for every advance may entail
an action. Thus strategy is grievously cramped by the constant necessity for caution, and still
more by the tedious movements of the mass of transport, without which no army can continue
to operate in a country sparsely inhabited, and as sparsely cultivated. [Sidenote: Variety
of rainfall.] In South Africa even the rainfall militates against concurrent
operations on a wide scale, for, at the same season of the year,
the conditions prevalent upon one side of the sub-continent are exactly
the opposite to those obtaining on the other.

In the western provinces, the rainy season occurs in the winter months
(May-- October), in the eastern, including the Boer States, the rain
falls chiefly in the summer (October-- March).

Yet so capricious are these phenomena that a commander, who counted
absolutely upon them for his schemes, might easily find them in abeyance,
or even for a period reversed.

[Sidenote: Variety of S. A. climate.] Beyond the broad facts stated above, the extent of South
Africa renders it as impossible to specify any typical climatic or
scenic peculiarities common to the whole of it, as to fix upon any
strategical or tactical character that is universal.

Cape Colony alone exhibits such antitheses of landscape as the moist
verdure of the Stormberg and the parched dreariness of Bushman and
Little Namaqua Lands, and a rainfall ranging from two to seventy-two
inches per annum.

The variations in other parts are little less striking. The temperature of the High Veld, for instance, is
wont to rise or fall no less than sixty degrees in twelve hours, or less. Thus, whilst one portion of
an army on a wide front might be operating in the tropics, another might be in the snows, whilst a third
was sheltering from the sun by day, from the frost by night, conditions which actually obtained
during the contest about to be described.

What effect such divergencies must exercise on plans of campaign, on supplies of clothing, shelter,
food, forage, and on military animals themselves, may be readily
imagined.

CHAPTER IV. THE BOER ARMY. [Sidenote: Many previous cases compare with Boer resistance.]
[Sidenote: Inherited faculties.] Any force of irregulars which offers a prolonged resistance, not
unmarked by tactical successes, to a regular army of superior strength
is apt to be regarded as a phenomenon.

Yet, from the earliest times, history has shown how seasoned troops
may be checked by an enemy who is inferior in numbers, discipline
and armament, but possessed of certain counterbalancing resources,
due either to the nature of his country, to his own natural characteristics,
or to a combination of both.

[65] Of such resources the Boers at the close of the nineteenth century possessed, largely by inheritance,
a full share. With their forefathers, the early Afrikanders, loneliness had been a passion to
which their very presence north of the Orange river was due. Flying from society, from burdens and
responsibilities which they considered intolerable, from pleasures which
seemed to them godless, from a stir which bewildered them, and from
regularity which wearied them, they had penetrated the wilds northward
in bands as small as possible, each man of which was wrapped in a
dream of solitude, careless whither he went so long as he went unseen.

It troubled these pioneers little that they were plunging into a sea of enemies. Society, with
its conventions and trammels, and most of all, perhaps, with its
taxes, was the only enemy whom they feared, the only one they could
never escape.

But before it caught them up, their combats with corporeal foes were
incessant and deadly.

Wild beasts prowled round their herds; savages swooped upon their homesteads;
all animated nature was in arms against them; every farmhouse was a fortress,
usually in a state of siege. In the great spaces of the wilderness the
cry for help was but seldom heard, or if heard, only by one who had
his own safety to look to.

The Boer farmer of the forties, therefore, had to work out his rescue, as he worked out every other
problem of his existence, for himself, acquiring thereby, a supreme individuality and self-reliance
in the presence of danger.

He acquired also other characteristics. The fighting men of his nation were few in number; every mature
life was little less valuable to the State than it was to the homestead
whose existence depended upon it.

The burgher's hope of injuring his enemy was therefore subordinated to solicitude for his own
preservation, and he studied only safe methods of being dangerous. Even when in later days the Boer
expeditionary bands, reclaiming to the full from the blacks the toll
of blood and cruelty which had been levied on themselves, were more
often the attackers than the attacked, their aggression was always
tempered by the caution of the individual Boers, who would still forego
a chance of striking a blow should it contain an undue element of
hazard.

The republican warriors relied, indeed, less on attack than on defence. They trusted yet more
to that weapon, perfected by many small races which have been compelled
to work out their own methods of warfare, the weapon of evasion.

Nearly always outnumbered, never sure of victory, the burghers always
provided, then kept their eyes continually upon, a loophole of escape,
for if that were closed they felt themselves to be lost.

These characteristics, with many more which will be noted, the early
Boer bequeathed to his sons and grandsons; a legacy so strangely composed
that many of the very qualities which brought temporary victory to
the campaigners of 1899 foredoomed them to ultimate defeat.

[Footnote 65: E. G., the revolt of La Vendée, the resistance of the
Maories, the Red Indians, the Achinese, the Montenegrins, of the Trans-Indus
Highlanders, of Andreas Hofer's Tyrolese, of Shamyl's Caucasians.]
[Sidenote: Value of these in present warfare.] Self-reliance and individuality
are factors of extraordinary military importance under any conditions,
but especially under circumstances involving such dispersion of combatants,
such distances between commanders and commanded, as were brought about
by the conjunction of long-range arms, an open terrain and the clearest
atmosphere in the world.

South Africa was a country which gave the freest play to the deadly
properties of small-bore rifles.

The new weapons fitted into the Boer's inherited conceptions of warfare as if they were a part for
which his military organisers had long been hoping and waiting. He had an antipathy to fighting at close
quarters, but he knew the value and necessity of striking; the Mauser
enabled him to strike at the extreme limit of vision, multiplying tenfold
the losses and difficulties of the enemy who attempted to close with
him. The portability of the ammunition, the accuracy of the sighting,
the absence of betraying smoke, all these increased the Boer's already
great trust in himself, and he took the field against the British
regular infantryman with more confidence than his sires had felt when
they held their laagers against the Zulu and the Matabele.

The modern rifle, moreover, still further increased his self-reliance by rendering avoidance
of close combat, which alone he feared, a much simpler matter than
hitherto.

His father had escaped the bayonets of the British at Boomplaats; he himself was no more willing
or likely to be caught by the steel fifty years later, when he could kill at two thousand yards
instead of two hundred, or failing to kill, had hours instead of minutes
in which to gain his pony and disappear. Yet the long-range rifle
had improved his weapon of retreat until it had become a danger instead
of an aid to his cause.

Failing so completely to understand the military value of self-sacrifice,
that he actually pitied, and slightly despised it, when he saw it
resorted to by his enemies, his refusal to risk his life often proved
disastrous to his side at times when more resolution might have turned
the scale of battle in his favour.

There was much to be admired in the Boer defensive; up to a certain point
it was stubborn and dangerous. The musketry from a position, poured
upon zones of ground over which the British troops must pass rather
than upon the troops themselves, was heavy and effective, and not
easily quelled by bombardment.

In battle, artillery may do its work without causing a casualty; but so long as he had cover for
his body, the soul of the Boer rifleman was little shaken by the bursting
of projectiles; fierce firing came often from portions of a position
which appeared to be smothered by shrapnel, and invisible in the
reek of exploding lyddite.

[Sidenote: Special habits of fighting.] Nor did the Boer armies, as regular
armies have done, cling to strong positions simply because they were
strong.

They considered a position as a means to an end, and if it ceased to be the best, they discarded
it without hesitation, no matter with what toil it had been prepared. Nevertheless, on ground
of their own choosing, the abandonment without a shot of strong, laboriously entrenched, positions
by no means always meant retirement. Much as they dreaded being enveloped,
their flanks, or what would have been the flanks of an European army, might
be threatened again and again only to be converted each time into
new and formidable fronts.

The nature of the country, and the comparative mobility of the opposing forces rendered these rapid changes
of front easy of execution, but they demanded promptness, and a genius
for the appreciation of the value of ground, not only on the part
of the Boer leaders, but also on that of the rank and file.

In the ranks of the commandos persuasion had to take the place of
word of command; the Boer soldier, before he quitted one position for
another, had to be convinced of the necessity for a repetition of
the severe toil of entrenching which had apparently been wasted. But
his eye was as quick, his tactical and topographical instinct as keen
as those of his commander, and if the new dispositions were not selected
for him, he often selected them himself.

[Sidenote: Their defences: strong points.] Once on the ground the burghers'first care was to
conceal themselves quickly and cunningly, cutting deep and narrow entrenchments,
if possible upon the rearward crest, leaving the forward crest, of
which they carefully took the range, to the outposts.

Upon the naked slope between, which was often obstructed with barbed wire, they relied to
deny approach to their schanzes. A not uncommon device was the placing
of the main trench, not at the top, but along the base of the position.

Here the riflemen, secure and invisible, lay while the hostile artillery bombarded the untenanted
ridge lines behind them. Such traps presented an enhanced danger from
the fact that the Boers would rarely open fire from them until the
front of the attack was well committed, though, on the other hand,
they seldom had nerve or patience to withhold their musketry until
the moment when it might be completely decisive.

As regards the Boer artillery, its concealment was usually perfect,
its location original and independent, its service accurate and intelligent.
Dotted thinly over a wide front, the few guns were nevertheless often
turned upon a common target, and were as difficult to detect from
their invisibility, as to silence from the strength of the defences,
in the case of the heavy ordnance, and in the case of the lighter
pieces, from their instant change of position when discovered.

[Sidenote:
A weakness in defence.] Nevertheless, with all these virtues, the
Boer defensive, by reason of the above-mentioned characteristics of
the individual soldiers, was no insurmountable barrier, but only an
obstacle to a determined attack.

Many of the positions occupied
by the Republicans during the campaigns seemed impregnable. Prepared as
skilfully as they had been selected, in them some troops would have been unconquerable.
But at the moment when they must be lost without a serried front, the
reverse slopes would be covered with flying horsemen, whilst but a handful
of the defenders remained in the trenches.

Nor, except on the feeblest and most local scale, would the defenders at any time venture anything
in the nature of a counter stroke, though the attack staggered, or even recoiled, upon the bullet-swept
glacis, and victory trembled in the balance.

[Sidenote: A weakness in attack.] If the Boer defensive was force passive, their general attack became
force dissipated as soon as it entered the medium rifle zone. Excessive
individuality marked its every stage, the thought of victory seldom held the
first place.

In the old days, when an assault had to be attempted, as at Thaba
Bosigo and Amajuba, it had been the custom to call for volunteers. But
when President Kruger pitted his burghers against large armies, this
expedient was no longer available; instead of a few score such affairs
required thousands, and they were not forthcoming.

The desire to close, the only spirit which can compel decisive victory, entered into the Boer fighting
philosophy even less than the desire to be closed with; the non-provision
of bayonets was no careless omission on the part of their War department.

During an assault the Commandants might set, as they often did, a
splendid example of courage, but they could never rely on being followed
to the end by more than a fraction of their men.

"Doan't cock your nose so high, Farmer," said Bonus, who had never spoken to Will since he
left Newtake; "'t is very onhandsome of 'e to be tellin' like this to gentle-folks."

"Gentlefolks! Gentlefolks would ax your help, wouldn't they? You, as be no better than a common
poacher since I turned 'e off! You shut your mouth and go home-long, an' mind your awn business,
an' keep out o' the game preserves. Law's law, as you'm like to find sooner'n most folks."

This pointed allusion to certain rumours concerning the labourer's present way of life angered
Bonus not a little, but it also silenced him.

"Law's law, as you truly say, Will Blanchard," answered Mr. Blee, "an' theer it do lie in a
nutshell. A man's gate-post is his awn as a common, natural gate-post; but bein' a sainted
cross o' the Lard sticked in the airth upsy-down by some ancient devilry, 't is no gate-post,
nor yet every-day moor-stone, but just the common property of all Christian souls."

"You'm out o' bias to harden your heart, Mr. Blanchard, when this gentleman sez 't is what
't is," ventured the man Peter Bassett, slowly.

"An' so you be, Blanchard, an' 't is a awful deed every ways, an' you'll larn it some day.
You did ought to be merry an' glad to hear such a thing 's been found 'pon Newtake. Think o'
the fortune a cross o' Christ brings to 'e!"

"An' how much has it brought, you auld fule?"

"Gude or bad, you'll be a sight wuss off it you leave it wheer 't is, now you knaw. Theer'll
be hell to pay if it's let bide now, sure as eggs is eggs an' winter, winter. You'll rue it;
you'll gnash awver it; 't will turn against 'e an' rot the root an' blight the ear an' starve
the things an' break your heart. Mark me, you'm doin' a cutthroat deed an' killin' all your
awn luck by leavin' it here an hour longer."

But Will showed no alarm at Mr. Blee's predictions.

"Be it as 't will, you doan't touch my stone--cross or no cross. Damn the cross! An' you tu,
every wan of 'e, dirty night birds!"

Then Martin, who had waited, half hoping that Billy's argument might carry weight, spoke and
ended the scene.

"We'll talk no more and we'll do no more," he said. "You're wrong in a hundred ways to leave
this precious stone to shut a gate and keep in cows, Blanchard. But if you wouldn't heed my
letters, I suppose you won't heed my voice."

"Why the devil should I heed your letters? I told 'e wance for all, didn't I? Be I a man as
changes my mind like a cheel?"

"Crooked words won't help 'e, Farmer," said the stolid Bassett. "You 'm wrong, an' you knaw
right well you 'm wrong, an' theer'll come a day of reckoning for 'e, sure 's we 'm in a Christian
land."

"Let it come, an' leave me to meet it. An' now, clear out o' this, every wan, or I'll loose
the dog 'pon 'e!"

He turned hurriedly as he spoke and fetched the bobtailed sheep-dog on its chain. This he fastened
to the stone, then watched the defeated raiders depart. Grimbal had already walked away alone,
after directing that a post which he had brought to supersede the cross, should be left at
the side of the road. Now, having obeyed his command, Mr. Blee, Bonus, and Bassett climbed
into the cart and slowly passed away homewards. The moon had risen clear of earth and threw
light sufficient to show Bassett's white smock still gleaming through the night as Will beheld
his enemies depart.

Ten minutes later, while he washed his feet, the farmer told Phoebe of the whole matter, including
his earlier meeting with Martin, and the antiquary's offer of money. Upon this subject his
wife found herself in complete disagreement with Blanchard, and did not hesitate to say so.

"Martin Grimbal 's so gude a friend as any man could have, an' you did n't ought to have bullyragged
him that way," she declared.

"You say that! Ban't a man to speak his mind to thieves an' robbers?"

"No such thing. 'T is a sacred stone an' not your property at all. To refuse ten pound for it!"

"Hold your noise, then, an' let me mind my business my awn way," he answered roughly, getting
back to bed; but Phoebe was roused and had no intention of speaking less than her mind.

"You 'm a knaw-nought gert fule," she said, "an' so full of silly pride as a turkey-cock. What
's the stone to you if Grimbal wants it? An' him taking such a mint of trouble to come by it.
What right have you to fling away ten pounds like that, an' what 's the harm to earn gude money
honest? Wonder you ban't shamed to sell anything. 'T is enough these times for a body to say
wan thing for you to say t'other."

This rebuke from a tongue that scarcely ever uttered a harsh word startled Will not a little.
He was silent for half a minute, then made reply.

"You can speak like that--you, my awn wife--you, as ought to be heart an' soul with me in everything
I do? An' the husband I am to 'e. Then I should reckon I be fairly alone in the world, an'
no mistake--'cept for mother."

Phoebe did not answer him. Her spark of anger was gone and she was passing quickly from temper
to tears.

"'T is queer to me how short of friends I 'pear to be gettin'," confessed Will gloomily. "I
must be differ'nt to what I fancied for I allus felt I could do with a waggon-load of friends.
Yet they 'm droppin' off. Coourse I knaw why well enough, tu. They've had wind o' tight times
to Newtake, though how they should I caan't say, for the farm 's got a prosperous look to my
eye, an' them as drops in dinnertime most often finds meat on the table. Straange a man what
takes such level views as me should fall out wi' his elders so much."

"'T is theer fault as often as yours; an' you've got me as well as your mother, Will; an' you've
got your son. Childern knaw the gude from the bad, same as dogs, in a way hid from grawn folks.
Look how the li'l thing do run to 'e 'fore anybody in the world."

"So he do; an' if you 'm wise enough to see that, you ought to be wise enough to see I'm right
'bout the gate-post. Who 's Martin Grimbal to offer me money? A self-made man, same as me.
Yet he might have had it, an' welcome if he'd axed proper."

"Of course, if you put it so, Will."

"Theer 's no ways else to put it as I can see."

"But for your awn peace of mind it might be wisest to dig the cross up. I listened by the window
an' heard Billy Blee tellin' of awful cusses, an' he 's wise wi'out knawin' it sometimes."

"That's all witchcraft an' stuff an' nonsense, an' you ought to knaw better, Phoebe. 'T is
as bad as setting store on the flight o' magpies, or gettin' a dead tooth from the churchyard
to cure toothache, an' such-like folly."

"Ban't folly allus, Will; theer 's auld tried wisdom in some ancient sayings."

"Well, you guide your road by my light if you want to be happy. 'T is for you I uses all my
thinking brain day an' night--for your gude an' the li'l man's."

"I knaw--I knaw right well 't is so, dear Will, an' I'm sorry I spoke so quick."

"I'll forgive 'e before you axes me, sweetheart. Awnly you must larn to trust me, an' theer
's no call for you to fear. Us must speak out sometimes, an' I did just now, an' 't is odds
but some of them chaps, Grimbal included, may have got a penn'orth o' wisdom from me."

"So 't is, then," she said, cuddling to him; "an' you'll do well to sleep now; an'--an' never
tell again, Will, you've got nobody but your mother while I'm above ground, 'cause it's against
justice an' truth an' very terrible for me to hear."

"'T was a thoughtless speech," admitted Will, "an' I'm sorry I spake it. 'T was a hasty word
an' not to be took serious."

They slept, while the moon wove wan harmonies of ebony and silver into Newtake. A wind woke,
proclaiming morning, as yet invisible; and when it rustled dead leaves or turned a chimney-cowl,
the dog at the gate stirred and growled and grated his chain against the granite cross.

CHAPTER V

WINTER

As Christmas again approached, adverse conditions of weather brought like anxieties to a hundred
moormen besides Will Blanchard, but the widespread nature of the trouble by no means diminished
his individual concern. A summer of unusual splendour had passed unblessed away, for the sustained
drought represented scanty hay and an aftermath of meagre description. Cereals were poor, with
very little straw, and the heavy rains of November arrived too late to save acres of starved
roots on high grounds. Thus the year became responsible for one prosperous product alone: rarely
was it possible to dry so well those stores gathered from the peat beds. Huge fires, indeed,
glowed upon many a hearth, but the glory of them served only to illumine anxious faces. A hard
winter was threatened, and the succeeding spring already appeared as no vision to welcome,
but a hungry spectre to dread.

Then, with the last week of the old year, winter swept westerly on hyperborean winds, and when
these were passed a tremendous frost won upon the world. Day followed day of weak, clear sunshine
and low temperature. The sun, upon his shortest journeys, showed a fiery face as he sulked
along the stony ridges of the Moor, and gazed over the ice-chained wilderness, the frozen waters,
and the dark mosses that never froze, but lowered black, like wounds on a white skin. Dartmoor
slept insensible under granite and ice; no sheep-bell made music; no flocks wandered at will;
only the wind moaned in the dead bells of the heather; only the foxes slunk round cot and farm;
only the shaggy ponies stamped and snorted under the lee of the tors and thrust their smoking
muzzles into sheltered clefts and crannies for the withered green stuff that kept life in them.
Snow presently softened the outlines of the hills, set silver caps on the granite, and brought
the distant horizon nearer to the eye under crystal-clear atmosphere. Many a wanderer, thus
deceived, plodded hopefully forward at sight of smoke above a roof-tree, only to find his bourne,
that seemed so near, still weary miles away. The high Moors were a throne for death. Cold below
freezing-point endured throughout the hours of light and grew into a giant when the sun and
his winter glory had huddled below the hills.

Newtake squatted like a toad upon this weary waste. Its crofts were bare and frozen two feet
deep; its sycamores were naked save for snow in the larger forks, and one shivering concourse
of dead leaves, where a bough had been broken untimely, and thus held the foliage. Suffering
almost animate peered from its leaded windows; the building scowled; cattle lowed through the
hours of day, and a steam arose from their red hides as they crowded together for warmth. Often
it gleamed mistily in the light of Will's lantern when at the dead icy hour before dawn he
went out to his beasts. Then he would rub their noses, and speak to them cheerfully, and note
their congealed vapours where these had ascended and frozen in shining spidery hands of ice
upon the walls and rafters of the byre. Fowls, silver-spangled and black, scratched at the
earth from habit, fought for the daily grain with a ferocity the summer never saw, stalked
spiritless in puffed plumage about the farmyard and collected with subdued clucking upon their
roosts in a barn above the farmyard carts as soon as the sun had dipped behind the hills. Ducks
complained vocally, and as they slipped on the glassy pond they quacked out a mournful protest
against the times.

The snow which fell did not melt, but shone under the red sunshine, powdered into dust beneath
hoof and heel; every cart-rut was full of thin white ice, like ground window-glass, that cracked
drily and split and tinkled to hobnails or iron-shod wheel. The snow from the house-top, thawed
by the warmth within, ran dribbling from the eaves and froze into icicles as thick as a man's
arm. These glittered almost to the ground and refracted the sunshine in their prisms.

Warm-blooded life suffered for the most part silently, but the inanimate fabric of the farm
complained with many a creak and crack and groan in the night watches, while Time's servant
the frost gnawed busily at old timbers and thrust steel fingers into brick and mortar. Only
the hut-circles, grey glimmering through the snow on Metherill, laughed at those cruel nights,
as the Neolithic men who built them may have laughed at the desperate weather of their day;
and the cross beside Blanchard's gate, though an infant in age beside them, being fashioned
of like material, similarly endured. Of more lasting substance was this stone than an iron
tongue stuck into it to latch the gate, for the metal fretted fast and shed rust in an orange
streak upon the granite.

Where first this relic had risen, when yet its craftsman's work was perfect and before the
centuries had diminished its just proportions, no living man might say. Martin Grimbal suspected
that it had marked a meeting-place, indicated some Cistercian way, commemorated a notable deed,
or served to direct the moorland pilgrim upon his road to that trinity of great monasteries
which flourished aforetime at Plympton, at Tavistock, and at Buckland of the Monks; but between
its first uprising and its last, a duration of many years doubtless extended.

The antiquary's purpose had been to rescue the relic, judge, by close study of the hidden part,
to what date it might be assigned, then investigate the history of Newtake Farm, and endeavour
to trace the cross if possible. After his second repulse, however, and following upon a conversation
with Phoebe, whom he met at Chagford, Martin permitted the matter to remain in abeyance. Now
he set about regaining Will's friendship'in a gradual and natural manner. That done, he trusted
to disinter the coveted granite at some future date and set it up on sanctified ground in Chagford
churchyard, if the true nature of the relic justified that course. For the present, however,
he designed no step, for his purpose was to visit the Channel Islands early in the new year,
that he might study their testimony to prehistoric times.

A winter, to cite whose parallel men looked back full twenty years, still held the land, though
February had nearly run. Blanchard daily debated the utmost possibility of his resources with
Phoebe, and fought the inclement weather for his early lambs. Such light as came into life
at Newtake was furnished by little Will, who danced merrily through ice and snow, like a scarlet
flower in his brilliant coat. The cold pleased him; he trod the slippery duck pond in triumph,
his bread-and-milk never failed. To Phoebe her maternal right in the infant seemed recompense
sufficient for all those tribulations existence just now brought with it; from which conviction
resulted her steady courage and cheerfulness. Her husband's nebulous rationalism clouded Phoebe's
religious views not at all. She daily prayed to Christ for her child's welfare, and went to
church whenever she could, at the express command of her father. A flash of folly from Will
had combined with hard weather to keep the miller from any visit to Newtake. Mr. Lyddon, on
the beginning of the great frost, had sent two pairs of thick blankets from the Monks Barton
stores to Phoebe, and Will, opening the parcel during his wife's absence, resented the gift
exceedingly, and returned it by the bearer with a curt message of thanks and the information
that he did not need them. Much hurt, the donor turned his face from Newtake for six weeks
after this incident, and Phoebe, who knew nothing of the matter, marvelled at her father's
lengthy and unusual silence.

As for Will, during these black days, the steadfast good temper of his wife almost irritated
him; but he saw the prime source of her courage, and himself loved their small son dearly.
Once a stray journal fell into his hands, and upon an article dealing with emigration he built
secret castles in the air, and grew more happy for the space of a week. His mother ailed a
little through the winter, and he often visited her. But in her presence he resolutely put
off gloom, spoke with sanguine tongue of the prosperity he foresaw during the coming spring,
and always foretold the frost must break within four-and-twenty-hours. Damaris Blanchard was
therefore deceived in some measure, and when Will spent five shillings upon a photograph of
his son, she felt that the Newtake prospects must at least be more favourable than she feared,
and let the circumstance of the picture be generally known.

Not until the middle of March came a thaw, and then unchained waters and melted snows roared
and tumbled from the hills through every coomb and valley. Each gorge, each declivity contributed
an unwonted torrent; the quaking bogs shivered as though beneath them monsters turned in sleep
or writhed in agony; the hoarse cry of Teign betokened new tribulations to the ears of those
who understood; and over the Moor there rolled and crowded down a sodden mantle of mist, within
whose chilly heart every elevation of note vanished for days together. Wrapped in impenetrable
folds were the high lands, and the gigantic vapour stretched a million dripping tentacles over
forests and wastes into the valleys beneath. Now it crept even to the heart of the woods; now
it stealthily dislimned in lonely places; now it redoubled its density and dominated all things.
The soil steamed and exuded vapour as a soaked sponge, and upon its surcharged surface splashes
and streaks and sheets of water shone pallid and ash-coloured, like blind eyes, under the eternal
mists and rains. These accumulations threw back the last glimmer of twilight and caught the
first grey signal of approaching dawn; while the land, contrariwise, had welcomed night while
yet wan sunsets struggled with the rain, and continued to cherish darkness long after morning
was in the sky. Every rut and hollow, every scooped cup on the tors was brimming now; springs
unnumbered and unknown had burst their secret places; the water floods tumbled and thundered
until their rough laughter rang like a knell in the ears of the husbandmen; and beneath crocketed
pinnacles of half a hundred church towers rose the mournful murmur of prayer for fair weather.

There came an afternoon in late March when Mr. Blee returned to Monks Barton from Chagford,
stamped the mud off his boots and leggings, shook his brown umbrella, and entered the kitchen
to find his master reading the Bible.

"'Tis all set down, Blee," exclaimed Mr. Lyddon with the triumphant voice of a discoverer.
"These latter rains be displayed in the Book, according to my theory that everything 's theer!"

"Pity you didn't find 'em out afore they comed; then us might have bought the tarpaulins cheap
in autumn, 'stead of payin' through the nose for 'em last month. Now 't is fancy figures for
everything built to keep out rain. Rabbit that umberella! It's springed a leak, an' the water's
got down my neck." If that ban't a picter of the present plague o' rain, what should be?"

"So 't is; an' the fountains in the midst of the valleys be the awfullest part. Burnish it
all! The high land had the worst of the winter, but we in the low coombs be gwaine to get the
worst o' the spring--safe as water allus runs down-long."

"'T will find its awn level, which the prophet knawed."

"I wish he knawed how soon."

"'T is in the Word, I'll wager. I may come upon it yet."

"The airth be damn near drowned, an' the air's thick like a washin'-day everywheers, an' a
terrible braave sight o' rain unshed in the elements yet."

"'T will pass, sure as Noah seed a rainbow."

"Ess, 't will pass; but Monks Barton's like to be washed to Fingle Bridge fust. Oceans o' work
waitin', but what can us be at? Theer ban't a bit o' land you couldn't most swim across."

"Widespread trouble, sure 'nough--all awver the South Hams, high an' low."

"By the same token, I met Will Blanchard an hour agone. Gwaine in the dispensary, he was. The
li'l bwoy's queer--no gert ill, but a bit of a tisseck on the lungs. He got playin' 'bout,
busy as a rook, in the dirt, and catched cold."

Miller Lyddon was much concerned at this bad news.

"Oh, my gude God!" he exclaimed, "that's worse hearin' than all or any you could have fetched
down. What do Doctor say?"

"Wasn't worth while to call un up, so Will thought. Ban't nothin' to kill a beetle, or I lay
the mother of un would have Doctor mighty soon. Will reckoned to get un a dose of physic--an'
a few sweeties. Nature's all for the young buds. He won't come to no hurt."

"Fust thing morning send a lad riding to Newtake," ordered Mr. Lyddon. "Theer's no sleep for
me to-night, no, nor any more at all till I hear tell the dear tibby-lamb's well again. 'Pon
my soul, I wonder that headstrong man doan't doctor the cheel hisself."

"Maybe he will. Ban't nothin 's beyond him."

"I'll go silly now. If awnly Mrs. Blanchard was up theer wi' Phoebe."

"Doan't you grizzle about it. The bwoy be gwaine to make auld bones yet--hard as a nut he be.
Give un years an' he'll help carry you to the graave in the fulness of time, I promise 'e,"
said Billy, in his comforting way.

CHAPTER VI

THE CROSS UPREARED

Mr. Blee had but reported Will correctly, and it was not until some hours later that the child
at Newtake caused his parents any alarm. Then he awoke in evident suffering, and Will, at Phoebe's
frantic entreaty, arose and was soon galloping down through the night for Doctor Parsons.

His thundering knock fell upon the physician's door, and a moment later a window above him
was opened.

"Why can't you ring the bell instead of making that fiendish noise, and waking the whole house?
Who is it?"

"Blanchard, from Newtake."

"What's wrong?"

"'T is my bwoy. He've got something amiss with his breathing parts by the looks of it."

"Ah."

"Doan't delay. Gert fear comed to his mother under the darkness, 'cause he seemed nicely when
he went to sleep, then woke up worse. So I felt us had better not wait till morning."

"I'll be with you in five minutes."

Soon the Doctor appeared down a lane from the rear of the house. He was leading his horse by
the bridle.

"I'm better mounted than you," he said, "so I'll push forward. Every minute saved is gained."

Will thanked him, and Doctor Parsons disappeared. When the father reached home, it was to hear
that his child was seriously ill, though nothing of a final nature could be done to combat
the sickness until it assumed a more definite form.

"It's a grave case," said the physician, drearily in the dawn, as he pulled on his gloves and
discussed the matter with Will before departing. "I'll be up again to-night. We mustn't overlook
the proverbial vitality of the young, but if you are wise you will school your mind and your
wife's to be resigned. You understand."

He stroked his peaked naval beard, shook his head, then mounted his horse and was gone.

From that day forward life stood still at Newtake, in so far as it is possible for life to
do so, and a long-drawn weariness of many words dragged dully of a hundred pages would be necessary
to reflect that tale of noctural terrors and daylight respites, of intermittent fears, of nerve-shattering
suspense, and of the ebb and flow of hope through a fortnight of time. Overtaxed and overwrought,
Phoebe ceased to be of much service in the sick-room after a week without sleep; Will did all
that he could, which was little enough; but his mother took her place in the house unquestioned
at this juncture, and ruled under Doctor Parsons. The struggle seemed to make her younger again,
to rub off the slow-gathering rust of age and charm up all her stores of sense and energy.

So they battled for that young life. More than once a shriek from Phoebe would echo to the
farm that little Will was gone; and yet he lived; many a time the child's father in his strength
surveyed the perishing atom, and prayed to take the burden, all too heavy for a baby's shoulders.
In one mood he supplicated, in another cursed Heaven for its cruelty.

There came a morning in early April when their physician, visiting Newtake before noon, broke
it to husband and wife that the child could scarcely survive another day. He promised to return
in the evening, and left them to their despair. Mrs. Blanchard, however, refused to credit
this assurance, and cried to them to be hopeful still.

In the afternoon Mr. Blee rode up from Monks Barton. Daily a messenger visited Newtake for
Mr. Lyddon's satisfaction, but it was not often that Billy came. Now he arrived, however, entered
the kitchen, and set down a basket laden with good things. The apartment lacked its old polish
and cleanliness. The whitewash was very dirty; the little eight-day clock on the mantelpiece
had run down; the begonias in pots on the window-ledge were at death's door for water. Between
two of them a lean cat stretched in the sun and licked its paws; beside the fire lay Ship with
his nose on the ground; and Will sat close by, a fortnight's beard upon his chin. He looked
listlessly up as Mr. Blee entered and nodded but did not speak.

"Well, what 's the best news? I've brought 'e fair-fashioned weather at any rate. The air 's
so soft as milk, even up here, an' you can see the green things grawin' to make up for lost
time. Sun was proper hot on my face as I travelled along. How be the poor little lad?"

"Alive, that's all. Doctor's thrawed un awver now."

"Never! Yet I've knawed even Parsons to make mistakes. I've brought 'e a braave bunch o' berries,
got by the gracious gudeness of Miller from Newton Abbot; also a jelly; also a bottle o' brandy--the
auld stuff from down cellar--I brushed the Dartmoor dew, as 't is called, off the bottle myself;
also a fowl for the missis."

"No call to have come. 'T is all awver bar the end."

"Never say it while the child's livin'! They 'm magical li'l twoads for givin' a doctor the
lie. You 'm wisht an' weary along o' night watchings."

"Us must faace it. Ban't no oncommon thing. Hope's dead in me these many days; an' dying now
in Phoebe--dying cruel by inches. She caan't bring herself to say 'gude-by' to the li'l darling
bwoy."

"What mother could? What do Mrs. Blanchard the elder say?"

"She plucks up 'bout it. She 'm awver hopeful."

"Doan't say so! A very wise woman her."

Phoebe entered at this moment, and Mr. Blee turned from where he was standing by his basket.

"I be cheerin' your gude man up," he said.

She sighed, and sat down wearily near Will.

"I've brought 'e a chick for your awn eatin' an'--"

Here a scuffle and snarling and spitting interrupted Billy. The hungry cat, finding a fowl
almost under its nose, had leapt to the ground with it, and the dog observed the action. Might
is right in hungry communities; Ship asserted himself, and almost before the visitor realised
what had happened, poor Phoebe's chicken was gone.

"Out on the blamed thieves!" cried Billy, astounded at such manners. He was going to strike
the dog, but Will stopped him.

"Let un bide," he said. "He didn't take it, an' since it weern't for Phoebe, better him had
it than the cat. He works for his livin', she doan't."

"Such gwaines-on 'mongst dumb beasts o' the field I never seen!" protested Billy; "an' chickens
worth what they be this spring!"

Presently conversation drifted into a channel that enabled the desperate, powerless man to
use his brains and employ his muscles; while for the mother it furnished a fresh gleam of hope
built upon faith. Billy it was who brought about this consummation. Led by Phoebe he ascended
to the sick-room and bid Mrs. Blanchard "good-day." She sat with the insensible child on her
lap by the fire, where a long-spouted kettle sent forth jets of steam.

"This here jelly what I've brought would put life in a corpse I do b'lieve; an' them butivul
grapes, tu,--they'll cool his fever to rights, I should judge."

"He 'm past all that," said Phoebe.

"Never!" cried the other woman. "He'm a bit easier to my thinkin'."

"Let me take un then," said the mother. "You'm most blind for sleep."

"Not a bit of it. I'll have forty winks later, after Doctor's been again."

Will here entered, sat down by his mother, and stroked the child's little limp hand.

"He ban't fightin' so hard, by the looks of it," he said.

"No more he is. Come he sleep like this till dark, I lay he'll do braave."

Nobody spoke for some minutes, then Billy, having pondered the point in silence, suddenly relieved
his mind and attacked Will, to the astonishment of all present.

"'Tis a black thought for you to knaw this trouble's of your awn wicked hatching, Farmer,"
he said abruptly; "though it ban't a very likely time to say so, perhaps. Yet theer's life
still, so I speak."

Will glared speechless; but Billy knew himself too puny and too venerable to fear rough handling.
He regarded the angry man before him without fear, and explained his allusion.

"You may glaze 'pon me, an' stick your savage eyes out your head; but that doan't alter truth.
'T 'as awnly a bit ago in the fall as I told un what would awvertake un," he continued, turning
to the women. "He left the cross what Mr. Grimbal found upsy-down in the airth; he stood up
afore the company an' damned the glory of all Christian men. Ess fay, he done that fearful
thing, an' if 't weern't enough to turn the Lard's hand from un, what was? Snug an' vitty he
weer afore that, so far as anybody knawed; an' since--why, troubles have tumbled 'pon each
other's tails like apple-dranes out of a nest."

The face of Phoebe was lighted with some eagerness, some deep anxiety, and not a little passion
as she listened to this harangue.

"You mean that gate-stone brought this upon us?" she asked.

"No, no, never," declared Damaris; "'t is contrary to all reason."

"'T is true, whether or no; an' any fule, let alone a man as knaws like I do, would tell 'e
the same. 'T is common sense if you axes me. Your man was told 't was a blessed cross, an'
he flouted the lot of us an' left it wheer 't was. 'T is a challenge, if you come to think
of it, a scoffin' of the A'mighty to the very face of Un. I wouldn't stand it myself if I was Him."

"Will, do 'e hear Mr. Blee?" asked Phoebe.

"I hear un. 'T is tu late now, even if what he said was true, which it ban't."

"Never tu late to do a gude deed," declared Billy; "an' you'll have to come to it, or you'll
get the skin cussed off your back afore you 'm done with. Gormed if ever I seed sich a man
as you! Theer be some gude points about 'e, as everything must have from God A'mighty's workshop,
down to poisonous varmints. But certain sure am I that you don't ought to think twice 'pon
this job."

"Do 'e mean it might even make the differ'nee between life an' death to the bwoy?" asked Phoebe
breathlessly.

"I do. Just all that."

"Will--for God's love, Will!"

"What do 'e say, mother?"

"It may be truth. Strange things fall out. Yet it never hurted my parents in the past."

"For why?" asked Billy. "'Cause they didn't knaw 't was theer, so allowance was made by the
Watching Eye. Now 't is differ'nt, an' His rage be waxing."

"Your blessed God 's got no common sense, then--an' that's all I've got to say 'bout it. What
would you have me do?"

Will put the question to Mr. Blee, but his wife it was who answered, being now worked up to
a pitch of frenzy at the delay.

"Go! Dig--dig as you never digged afore! Dig the holy stone out the ground direckly minute!
Now, now, Will, 'fore the life's out of his li'l flutterin' body. Lay bare the cross, an' drag
un out for God in heaven to see! Doan't stand clackin' theer, when every moment's worth more'n
gawld."

"So like's not He'll forgive 'e if 'e do," argued Mr. Blee. "Allowed the Lard o' Hosts graws
a bit short in His temper now an' again, as with them gormed Israelites, an' sich like, an'
small blame to Him; but He's all for mercy at heart, 'cordin' to the opinion of these times,
so you'd best to dig."

"Why doan't he strike me down if I've angered Him--not this innocent cheel?"

"The sins of the fathers be visited--" began Mr. Blee glibly, when Mrs. Blanchard interrupted.

"Ban't the time to argue, Will. Do it, an' do it sharp, if't will add wan grain o' hope to
the baaby's chance."

The younger woman's sufferings rose to a frantic half-hushed scream at the protracted delay.

"O Christ, why for do 'e hold back? Ban't anything worth tryin' for your awn son? I'd scratch
the stone out wi' my raw, bleedin' finger-bones if I was a man. Do 'e want to send me mad?
Do 'e want to make me hate the sight of 'e? Go--go for love of your mother, if not of me!"

"An' I'll help," said Billy, "an' that chap messin' about in the yard can lend a hand likewise.
I be a cracked vessel myself for strength, an' past heavy work, but my best is yours to call
'pon in this pass."

Will turned and left the sick-room without more words, while Billy followed him.

The farmer fetched two picks and a shovel, called Ted Chown and a minute later had struck the
first blow towards restoration of his granite cross. All laboured with their utmost power,
and Will, who had flung off his coat and waistcoat, bared his arms, tightened his belt, and
did the work of two men. The manual labour sweetened his mind a little, and scoured it of some
bitterness. While Mr. Blee, with many a grunt and groan, removed the soil as the others broke
it away, Blanchard, during these moments of enforced idleness, looked hungrily at the little
window of the upper chamber where all his hopes and interests were centred. Then he swung his
pick again.

Presently a ray of sunlight brightened Newtake, and contributed to soothe the toiling father.
He read promise into it, and when three feet below the surface indications of cross-arms appeared
upon the stone, Will felt still more heartened. Grimbal's prediction was now verified; and
it remained only to prove Billy's prophecy also true. His tremendous physical exertions, the
bright setting sunshine, and the discovery of the cross affected Will strangely. His mind swung
round from frank irreligion, to a sort of superstitious credulity, awestricken yet joyful,
that made him cling to the saving virtue of the stone. Because Martin had been right in his
assertion concerning the gate-post, Blanchard felt a hazy conviction that Blee's estimate of
the stone's virtue must also prove correct. He saw his wife at the window, and waved to her,
and cried aloud that the cross was uncovered.

"A poor thing in holy relics, sure 'nough," said Billy, wiping his forehead.

"But a cross--a clear cross? Keep workin', Chown, will 'e? You still think 'twill serve, doan't
'e, Blee?"

"No room for doubt, though woful out o' repair," answered Billy, occupied with the ancient
monument. "Just the stumps o' the arms left, but more'n enough to swear by."

All laboured on; then the stone suddenly subsided and fell in such a manner that with some
sloping of one side of the excavated pit they were able to drag it out.

"Something's talking to me as us have done the wan thing needful," murmured Will, in a subdued
voice, but with more light than the sunset on his face. "Something's hurting me bad that I
said what I said in the chamber, an' thought what I thought. God's nigher than us might think,
minding what small creatures we be. I hope He'll forgive them words."

"He's a peacock for eyes, as be well knawn," declared Mr. Blee. "An' He've got His various
manners an' customs o' handlin' the human race. Some He softens wi' gude things an' gude fortune
till they be bound to turn to Him for sheer shame; others He breaks 'pon the rocks of His wrath
till they falls on their knees an' squeals for forgiveness. I've seed it both ways scores o'
times; an' if your little lad 's spared to 'e, you'll be brought to the Lard by a easier way
than you deserve, Blanchard."

"I knaw, I knaw, Mr. Blee. He 'm surely gwaine to let us keep li'l Willy, an' win us to heaven
for all time."

The cross now lay at their feet, and Billy was about to return to the house and see how matters
prospered, when Will bade him stay a little longer.

"Not yet," he said.

"What more's to do?"

"I feel a kind o' message like to set it plumb-true under the sky. Us caan't lift it, but if
I pull a plank or two out o' the pig's house an' put a harrow chain round 'em, we could get
the cross on an' let a horse pull un up theer to the hill, and set un up. Then us would have
done all man can."

He pointed to the bosom of the adjacent hill, now glowing in great sunset light.

"Starve me! but you 'm wise. Us'll set the thing up under the A'mighty's eye. 'Twill serve--mark
my words. 'Twill turn the purpose of the Lard o' Hosts, or I'm no prophet."

"'Tis in my head you 'm right. I be lifted up in a way I never was."

"The Lard 's found 'e by the looks of it," said Billy critically, "either that, or you 'm light-headed
for want of sleep. But truly I think He've called 'e. Now 't is for you to answer."

They cleaned the cross with a bucket or two of water, then dragged it half-way up the hill,
and, where a rabbit burrow lessened labour, raised their venerable monument under the afterglow.

"It do look as if it had been part o' the view for all time," declared Ted Chown, as the party
retreated a few paces; and, indeed, the stone rose harmoniously upon its new site, and might
have stood an immemorial feature of the scene.

Blanchard stayed not a moment when the work was done but strode to Newtake like a jubilant
giant, while Mr. Blee and Chown, with the horse, tools, and rough sledge, followed more slowly.

The father proceeded homewards at tremendous speed; a glorious hope filled his heart, sharing
the same with sorrow and repentance. He mumbled shamefaced prayers as he went, speaking half
to himself, half to Heaven. He rambled on from a petition for forgiveness into a broken thanksgiving
for the mercy he already regarded as granted. His labours, the glamour of the present achievement,
and the previous long strain upon his mind and body, united to smother reason for one feverish
hour. Will walked blindly forward, now with his eyes upon the window under Newtake's dark roof
below him, now turning to catch sight of the grey cross uplifted on the hill above. A great
sweeping sea of change was tumbling through his intellect, and old convictions with scraps
of assured wisdom suffered shipwreck in it. His mind was exalted before the certainty of unutterable
blessing; his soul clung to the splendid assurance of a Personal God who had wrought actively
upon his behalf, and received his belated atonement.

Far behind, Mr. Blee was improving the occasion for benefit of young Ted Chown.

"See how he do stride the hill wi' his head held high, same as Moses when he went down-long
from the Mount. Look at un an' do likewise, Teddy; for theer goes a man as have grasped God!
'Tis a gert, gay day in human life when it comes."

Will Blanchard hurried through the farm gate, where it swung idly with its sacred support gone
forever; then he drew a great breath and glanced upwards before proceeding into the darkness
of the unlighted house. As he did so wheels grated at the entrance, and he knew that Doctor
Parsons must be just behind him. Above stairs the sick-room was still unlighted, the long-necked
kettle still puffed steam, but the fire had shrunk, and Will's first word was a protest that
it had been allowed to sink so low. Then he looked round, and the rainbow in his heart faded
and died. Damaris sat like a stone woman by the window; Phoebe lay upon the bed and hugged
a little body in a blanket. Her hair had fallen down; out of the great shadows he saw the white
blur on her face, and heard her voice sound strange as she cried monotonously, in a tone from
which the first passion had vanished through an hour of iteration.

"O God, give un back to me; O God, spare un; O kind God, give my li'l bwoy back."

CHAPTER VII

GREY TWILIGHT

In the soft earth they laid him, "the little child whose heart had fallen asleep," and from
piling of a miniature mound, from a small brown tumulus, now quite hid under primroses, violets,
and the white anemones of the woods, Will Blanchard and his mother slowly returned to Newtake.
He wore his black coat; she was also dressed in black; the solitary mourning coach dragged
slowly up the hill to the Moor, and elsewhere another like it conveyed Mr. Lyddon homeward.

Neither mother nor son had any heart to speak. The man's soul was up in arms; he had rebelled
against his life, and since the death of his boy, while Phoebe remained inert in her desolation
and languished under a mental and bodily paralysis wherein she had starved to death but for
those about her, he, on the contrary, found muscle and mind clamouring for heroic movement.
He was feverishly busy upon the farm, and ranged in thought with a savage activity among the
great concerns of men. His ill-regulated mind, smarting under the blows of Chance, whirled
from that past transient wave of superstitious emotion into an opposite extreme. Now he was
ashamed of his weakness, and suffered convictions proper to the narrowness of an immature intellect
to overwhelm him. He assured himself that his tribulations were not compatible with the existence
of a Supreme Being. Like poor humanity the wide world over, his judgment became vitiated, his
views distorted under the stroke of personal sorrow, and, beneath the pressure of that gigantic
egotism which ever palsies the mind of man at sudden loss of what he holds dearest upon earth,
poor Blanchard cried in his heart there was no God.

Here we are faced with a curious parallel, offered within the limits of this narrative. As
the old labourer, Blee, had arrived at the same conclusion, then modified it and returned to
a creed in the light of subsequent events, so now Will had found himself, on the evening of
his child's funeral, with fresh interests aroused and recent convictions shaken. An incipient
negation of Deity, built upon the trumpery basis of his personal misfortunes, was almost shattered
within the week that saw its first existence. A mystery developed in his path, and startling
incidents awoke a new train of credulity akin to that already manifested over the ancient cross.
The man's uneven mind was tossed from one extreme of opinion to the other, and that element
of superstition, from which no untutored intellect in the lap of Nature is free, now found
fresh food and put forth a strong root within him.

Returning home, Will approached Phoebe with a purpose to detail the sad, short scene in Chagford
churchyard, but his voice rendered her hysterical, so he left her with his mother, put on his
working clothes, and wandered out into the farmyard. Presently he found himself idly regarding
a new gate-post: that which Martin Grimbal formerly brought and left hard by the farm. Ted
Chown had occupied himself in erecting it during the morning.

The spectacle reminded Will of another, and he lifted his eyes to the cross on the undulation
spread before him. As he did so some object appeared to flutter out of sight not far above
it, among the rocks and loose 'clatters' beneath the summit of the tor. This incident did not
hold Will's mind, but, prompted to motion, restless, and in the power of dark thoughts, he
wandered up the Moor, tramped through the heather, and unwittingly passed within a yard of
the monument he had raised upon the hill. He stood a moment and looked at the cross, then cursed
and spat upon it. The action spoke definitely of a mental chaos unexampled in one who, until
that time, had never lacked abundant self-respect. His deed done, it struck Will Blanchard
like a blow; he marvelled bitterly at himself, he knew such an act was pitiful, and remembered
that the brain responsible for it was his own. Then he clenched his hands and turned away,
and stood and stared out over the world.

A wild, south-west wind blew, and fitful rain-storms sped separately across the waste. Over
the horizon clouds massed darkly, and the wildernesses spread beneath them were of an inflamed
purple. The seat of the sun was heavily obscured at this moment, and the highest illumination
cast from sky to earth broke from the north. The effect thus imparted to the scene, though
in reality no more than usual, affected the mind as unnatural, and even sinister in its operation
of unwonted chiaro-oscuro. Presently the sullen clearness of the distance was swept and softened
by a storm. Another, falling some miles nearer, became superimposed upon it. Immediately the
darkness of the horizon lifted and light generally increased, though every outline of the hills
themselves vanished under falling rain. The turmoil of the clouds proceeded, and after another
squall had passed there followed an aerial battle amid towers and pinnacles and tottering precipices
of sheer gloom. The centre of illumination wheeled swiftly round to the sun as the storm travelled
north, then a few huge silver spokes of wan sunshine turned irregularly upon the stone-strewn
desert.

Will watched this elemental unrest, and it served to soothe that greater storm of sorrows and
self-condemnation then raging within him. His nature found consolation here, the cool hand
of the Mother touched his forehead as she passed in her robe of rain, and for the first time
since childhood the man hid his face and wept.

Presently he moved forward again, walked to the valleys and wandered towards southern Teign,
unconsciously calmed by his own random movements and the river's song. Anon, he entered the
lands of Metherill, and soon afterwards, without deliberate intention, moved through that Damnonian
village which lies there. A moment later and he stood in the hut-circle where he himself had
been born. Its double stone courses spread around him, hiding the burrows of the rabbits; and
sprung from between two granite blocks, brave in spring verdure, with the rain twinkling in
little nests of flower buds as yet invisible, there rose a hawthorn. Within the stones a ewe
stood and suckled its young, but there was no other sign of life. Then Blanchard, sitting here
to rest and turning his eyes whither he had come, again noticed some sudden movement, but,
looking intently at the spot, he saw nothing and returned to his own thoughts. Sitting motionless
Will retraced the brief course of his career through long hours of thought; and though his
spirit bubbled to white heat more than once during the survey, yet subdued currents of sense
wound amid his later reflections. Crushed for a moment under the heavy load of life and its
lessons, he presented a picture familiar enough, desirable enough, necessary enough to all
humanity, yet pathetic as exemplified in the young and unintelligent and hopeful. It was the
picture of the dawn of patience--a patience sprung from no religious inspiration, but representing
Will's tacit acknowledgment of defeat in his earlier battles with the world. The emotion did
not banish his present rebellion against Fate and evil fortune undeserved; but it caused him
to look upon life from a man's standpoint rather than a child's, and did him a priceless service
by shaking to their foundations his self-confidence and self-esteem. Selfish at least he was
not from a masculine standard, and now his thoughts returned to Phoebe in her misery, and he
rose and retraced his steps with a purpose to comfort her if he could.

The day began to draw in. Unshed rains massed on the high tors, but towards the west one great
band of primrose sky rolled out above the vanished sun and lighted a million little amber lamps
in the hanging crystals of the rain. They twinkled on thorns and briars, on the grass, the
silver crosiers of uncurling ferns, and all the rusty-red young heather.

Then it was that rising from his meditations and turning homeward, the man distinctly heard
himself called from some distance. A voice repeated his name twice--in clear tones that might
have belonged to a boy or a woman.

"Will! Will!"

Turning sharply upon a challenge thus ringing through absolute loneliness and silence, Blanchard
endeavoured, without success, to ascertain from whence the summons came. He thought of his
mother, then of his wife, yet neither was visible, and nobody appeared. Only the old time village
spread about him with its hoary granite peering from under caps of heather and furze, ivy and
upspringing thorn. And each stock and stone seemed listening with him for the repetition of
a voice. The sheep had moved elsewhere, and he stood companionless in that theatre of vanished
life. Trackways and circles wound grey around him, and the spring vegetation above which they
rose all swam into one dim shade, yet moved with shadows under oncoming darkness. Attributing
the voice to his own unsettled spirit, Blanchard proceeded upon his road to where the skeleton
of a dead horse stared through the gloaming beside a quaking bog. Its bones were scattered
by ravens, and Will used the bleached skull as a stepping stone. Presently he thought of the
flame-tongues that here were wont to dance through warm summer nights. This memory recalled
his own nickname in Chagford--"Jack-o'-Lantern"--and, for the first time in his life, he began
to appreciate its significance. Then, being a hundred yards from his starting-place in the
hut-circle, he heard the hidden voice again. Clear and low, it stole over the intervening wilderness,
and between two utterances was an interval of some seconds.

"Will! Will!"

For one instant the crepitation of fear passed over Blanchard's scalp and skin. He made an
involuntary stride away from the voice; then he shook himself free of all alarm, and, not desirous
to lose more self-respect that day, turned resolutely and shouted back,--

"I hear 'e. What's the business? I be comin' to 'e if you'll bide wheer you be."

That some eyes were watching him out of the gathering darkness he did not doubt, and soon pushing
back, he stood once more in the ruined citadel of old stones, mounted one, steadied himself
by a young ash that rose beside it, and raised his voice again,--

"Now, then! I be here. What's to do? Who's callin' me?"

An answer came, but of a sort widely different from what he expected. There arose, within twenty
yards of him, a sound that might have been the cry of a child or the scream of a trapped animal.
Assuming it to be the latter, Will again hesitated. Often enough he had laughed at the folk-tales
of witch hares as among the most fantastic fables of the old; yet at this present moment mystic
legends won point from the circumstances in which he found himself. He hurried forward to the
edge of a circle from which the sound proceeded. Then, looking before him, he started violently,
sank to his knees behind a rock, and so remained, glaring into the ring of stones.

       *       *       *       *       *

In less than half an hour Blanchard, with his coat wrapped round some object that he carried,
returned to Newtake and summoned assistance with a loud voice.

Presently his wife and mother entered the kitchen, whereupon Will discovered his burden and
revealed a young child. Phoebe fainted dead away at sight of it, and while her husband looked
to her Mrs. Blanchard tended the baby, which was hungry but by no means alarmed. As for Will,
his altered voice and most unusual excitement of manner indicated something of the shock he
had received. Having described the voice which called him, he proceeded after this fashion
to detail what followed:

"I looked in the very hut-circle I was born, an' I shivered all over, for I thought 'twas the
li'l ghost of our wee bwoy--by God, I did! It sat theer all alone, an' I stared an' froze while
I stared. Then it hollered like a gude un, an' stretched out its arms, an' I seed 'twas livin'
an' never thought how it comed theer. He 'in somethin' smaller than our purty darling, yet
like him in a way, onless I'm forgetting."

"'Tis like," said Damaris, dandling the child and making it happy. "'Tis a li'l bwoy, two year
old or more, I should guess. It keeps crying 'Mam, mam,' for its mother. God forgive the woman."

"A gypsy's baby, I reckon," said Phoebe languidly.

"I doan't think it," answered her husband; "I'm most feared to guess what 'tis. Wan thing's
sure; I was called loud an' clear or I'd never have turned back; an' yet, second time I was
called, my flesh crept."

"The little flannels an' frock be thick an' gude, but they doan't shaw nought."

"The thing's most as easy to think a miracle as not. He looked up in my eyes as I brought un
away, an' after he'd got used to me he was quiet as a mouse an' snuggled to me."

"They'd have said 'twas a fairy changeling in my young days," mused Mrs. Blanchard, "but us
knaws better now. 'Tis a li'l gypsy, I'll warn 'e, an' some wicked mother's dropped un under
your nose to ease her conscience."

"What will you do? Take un to the poorhouse?" asked Phoebe.

"'Poorhouse'! Never! This be mine, tu. Mine! I was called to it, weern't I? By a human voice
or another, God knaws. Theer's more to this than us can see."

His women regarded him with blank amazement, and he showed considerable impatience tinder their
eyes. It was clear he desired that they should dwell on no purely materialistic or natural
explanation of the incident.

"Baan't a gypsy baaby," he said; "'tis awnly the legs an' arms of un as be brown. His body's
as white as curds, an' his hair's no darker than our awn Willy's was."

"If it ban't a gypsy's, whose be it?" said Phoebe, turning to the infant for the first time.

"Mine now," answered Will stoutly. "'Twas sent an' give into my awn hand by one what knawed
who 'twas they called. My heart warmed to un as he lay in my arms, an' he'm mine hencefarrard."

"What do 'e say, Phoebe?" asked Mrs. Blanchard, somewhat apprehensively. She knew full well
how any such project must have struck her if placed in the bereaved mother's position. Phoebe,
however, made no immediate answer. Her sorrowful eyes were fixed on the child, now sitting
happily on the elder woman's lap.

"A nice li'l thing, wi' a wunnerful curly head--eh, Phoebe? Seems more 'n chance to me, comin'
as it have on this night-black day. An' like our li'l angel, tu, in a way?" asked Will.

"Like him--in a way, but more like you," she answered; "more like you than your awn was--terrible
straange that--the living daps o' Will! Ban't it?"

Damaris regarded her son and then the child.

"He be like--very," she admitted. "I see him strong. An' to think he found the bwoy 'pon that
identical spot wheer he fust drawed breath himself!"

"'Tis a thing of hidden meaning," declared Will. "An' he looked at me kindly fust he seed me;
'twas awnly hunger made un shout--not no fear o' me. My heart warmed to un as I told 'e. An'
to come this day!"

Phoebe had taken the child, and was looking over its body in a half-dazed fashion for the baby
marks she knew. Silently she completed the survey, but there was neither caress in her fingers
nor softness in her eyes. Presently she put the child back on Mrs. Blanchard's lap and spoke,
still regarding it with a sort of dull, almost vindictive astonishment.

"Terrible coorious! Ban't no child as ever I seed or heard tell of; an' nothin' of my dead
lamb 'bout it, now I scans closer. But so like to Will! God! I can see un lookin' out o' its
baaby eyes!"

BOOK IV

HIS SECRET

CHAPTER I

A WANDERER RETURNS

Ripe hay swelled in many a silver-russet billow, all brightened by the warm red of sorrel under
sunshine. When the wind blew, ripples raced over the bending grasses, and from their midst
shone out mauve scabious and flashed occasional poppies. The hot July air trembled agleam with
shining insects, and drowsily over the hayfield, punctuated by stridulation of innumerable
grasshoppers, there throbbed one sustained murmur, like the remote and mellow music of wood
and strings. A lark still sang, and the swallows, whose full-fledged young thrust open beaks
from the nests under Newtake eaves, skimmed and twittered above the grass lands, or sometimes
dipped a purple wing in the still water where the irises grew.

Blanchard and young Ted Chown had set about their annual labour of saving the hay, and now
a rhythmic breathing of two scythes and merry clink of whetstones against steel sounded afar
on the sleepy summer air. The familiar music came to Phoebe's ear where she sat at an open
kitchen window of Newtake. Her custom was at times of hay harvest to assist in the drying of
the grass, and few women handled a fork better; but there had recently reached the farm an
infant girl, and the mother had plenty to do without seeking beyond her cradle.

Phoebe made no demur about receiving Will's little foundling of the hut-circle. His heart's
desire was usually her amibition also, and though Timothy, as the child had been called, could
boast no mother's love, yet Phoebe proved a kind nurse, and only abated her attention upon
the arrival of her own daughter. Then, as time softened the little mound in Chagford churchyard
with young green, so before another baby did the mother's bereavement soften, sink deeper into
memory, revive at longer intervals to conjure tears. Her character, as has been indicated,
admitted of no supreme sustained sorrow. Suffer she did, and fiery was her agony; but another
child brought occupation and new love; while her husband, after the first sentimental outburst
of affection over the infant he had found at Metherill, settled into an enduring regard for
him, associated him, by some mental process impossible of explanation, with his own lost one,
and took an interest, blended of many curious emotions, in the child.

Drying hay soon filled the air with a pleasant savour, and stretched out grey-green ribbons
along the emerald of the shorn meadows. Chown snuffled and sweated and sneezed, for the pollen
always gave him hay fever; his master daily worked like a giant from dawn till the owl-light,
drank gallons of cider, and performed wonders with the scythe. A great hay crop gladdened the
moormen, and Will, always intoxicated by a little fair fortune, talked much of his husbandry,
already calculated the value of the aftermath, and reckoned what number of beasts he might
feed next winter.

"'Most looks as if I'd got a special gift wi' hay," he said to his mother on one occasion.
She had let her cottage to holiday folk, and was spending a month on the Moor.

Mrs. Blanchard surveyed the scene from under her sunbonnet and nodded.

"Spare no trouble, no trouble, an' have it stacked come Saturday. Theer'll be thunder an' gert
rains after this heat. Be the rushes ready for thatchin' of it?"

"Not yet; but that's not to say I've forgot."

"I'll cut some for 'e myself come the cool of the evenin'. An' you can send Ted with the cart
to gather 'em up."

"No, no, mother. I'll make time to-morrow."

"'Twill be gude to me, an' like auld days, when I was a li'l maid. You sharp the sickle an'
fetch the skeiner out, tu, for I was a quick hand at bindin' ropes o' rushes, an' have made
many a yard of 'em in my time."

Then she withdrew from the tremendous sunshine, and Will, now handling a rake, proceeded with
his task.

Two days later a rick began to rise majestically at the corner of Blanchard's largest field,
while round about it was gathered the human life of the farm. Phoebe, with her baby, sat on
an old sheepskin rug in the shadow of the growing pile; little Tim rollicked unheeded with
Ship in the sweet grass, and clamoured from time to time for milk from a glass bottle; Will
stood up aloft and received the hay from Chown's fork, while Mrs. Blanchard, busy with the
"skeiner" stuck into the side of the rick, wound stout ropes of rushes for the thatching.

Then it was that Will, glancing out upon the Moor, observed a string of gypsy folk making slow
progress towards Chagford. Among the various Romany cavalcades which thus passed Newtake in
summer time this appeared not the least strange. Two ordinary caravans headed the procession.
A man conducted each, a naked-footed child or two trotted beside them, and an elder boy led
along three goats. The travelling homes were encumbered with osier-and cane-work, and following
them came a little broken-down, open vehicle. This was drawn by two donkeys, harnessed tandem-fashion,
and the chariot had been painted bright blue. A woman drove the concern, and in it appeared
a knife-grinding machine and a basket of cackling poultry, while some tent-poles stuck out
behind. Will laughed at this spectacle, and called his wife's attention to it, whereon Phoebe
and Damaris went as far as the gate of the hayfield to win a nearer view. The gypsies, however,
had already passed, but Mrs. Blanchard found time to observe the sky-blue carriage and shake
her head at it.

"What gwaines-on! Theer's no master minds 'mongst them people nowadays," she said. "Your faither
wouldn't have let his folk make a show of themselves like that."

"They 'm mostly chicken stealers nowadays," declared Will; "an' so surly as dogs if you tell
'em to go 'bout theer business."

"Not to none o' your name--never," declared his mother. "No gypsy's gwaine to forget my husband
in his son's time. Many gude qualities have they got, chiefly along o' living so much in the
awpen air."

"An' gude appetites for the same cause! Go after Tim, wan of 'e. He've trotted down the road
half a mile, an' be runnin' arter that blue concern as if't was a circus. Theer! Blamed if
that damned gal in the thing ban't stoppin' to let un catch up! Now he'm feared, an' have turned
tail an' be coming back. 'Tis all right; Ship be wi' un."

Presently the greater of Will's two ricks approached completion, and all the business of thatch
and spar gads and rush ropes began. At his mother's desire he wasted no time, and toiled on,
long after his party had returned to Newtake; but with the dusk he made an end for that day,
stood up, rested his back, and scanned the darkening scene before descending.

At eveningtide there had spread over the jagged western outlines of the Moor an orange-tawny
sunset, whereon the solid masses of the hills burnt into hazy gold, all fairy-bright, unreal,
unsubstantial as a cloud-island above them, whose solitary and striated shore shone purple
through molten fire.

Detail vanished from the Moor; dim and dimensionless it spread to the transparent splendour
of the horizon, and its eternal attributes of great vastness, great loneliness, great silence
reigned together unfretted by particulars. Gathering gloom diminished the wide glory of the
sky, and slowly robbed the pageant of its colour. Then rose each hill and undulation in a different
shade of night, and every altitude mingled into the outlines of its neighbour. Nocturnal mists,
taking grey substance against the darkness of the lower lands, wound along the rivers, and
defined the depths and ridges of the valleys. Moving waters, laden with a last waning gleam,
glided from beneath these vapoury exhalations, and even trifling rivulets, now invisible save
for chance splashes of light, lacked not mystery as they moved from darkness into darkness
with a song. Stars twinkled above the dewy sleep of the earth, and there brooded over all things
a prodigious peace, broken only by batrachian croakings from afar.

These phenomena Will Blanchard observed; then yellow candle fires twinkled from the dark mass
of the farmhouse, and he descended in splendid weariness and strode to supper and to bed.

Yet not much sleep awaited the farmer, for soon after midnight a gentle patter of small stones
at his window awakened him. Leaping from his bed and looking into the darkness he saw a vague
figure that raised its hand and beckoned without words. Fear for the hay was Will's first emotion,
but no indication of trouble appeared. Once he spoke, and as he did so the figure beckoned
again, then approached the door. Blanchard went down to find a woman waiting for him, and her
first whispered word made him start violently and drop the candle and matches that he carried.
His ears were opened and he knew Chris without seeing her face.

"I be come back--back home-along, brother Will," she said, very quietly. "I looked for mother
to home, but found she weern't theer. An' I be sorry to the heart for all the sorrow I've brought
'e both. But it had to be. Strange thoughts an' voices was in me when Clem went, an' I had
to hide myself or drown myself--so I went."

"God's gudeness! Lucky I be made o' strong stuff, else I might have thought 'e a ghost an'
no less. Come in out the night, an' I'll light a candle. But speak soft. Us must break this
very gentle to mother."

"Say you'll forgive me, will 'e? Can 'e do it? If you knawed half you'd say 'yes.' I'm grawed
a auld, cold-hearted woman, wi' a grey hair here an' theer a'ready."

"So've I got wan an' another, tu, along o' worse sorrow than yours. Leastways as bad as yourn.
Forgive 'e? A thousand times, an' thank Heaven you'm livin'! Wheer ever have 'e bided? An'
me an' Grimbal searched the South Hams, an' North, tu, inside out for 'e, an' he put notices
in the papers--dozens of 'em."

"Along with the gypsy folk for more 'n three year now. 'Twas the movin' an' rovin', and the
opening my eyes on new things that saved me from gwaine daft. Sometimes us coined through Chagford,
an' then I'd shut my eyes tight an' lie in the van, so's not to see the things his eyes had
seen--so's not to knaw when us passed the cottage he lived in. But now I've got to feel I could
come back again."

"You might have writ to say how you was faring."

"I didn't dare. You'd bin sure to find me, an' I didn't want 'e to then. 'Tis awver an' done,
an' 'twas for the best."

"You'm a woman, an' can say them silly words, an' think 'em true in your heart, I s'pose. 'For
the best!' I caan't see much that happens for the best under my eyes. Will 'e have bite or sup?"

"No, nothin'. You get back to your bed. Us'll talk in the marnin'. I'll bide here. You an'
Phoebe be well, an'--an' dear mother?"

"We'm well. You doan't ax me after the fust cheel Phoebe had."

"I knaw. I put some violets theer that very night. We were camped just above Chagford, not
far from here."

"Theer's a li'l gal now, an' a bwoy as I'll tell'e about bimebye. A sheer miracle't was that
falled out the identical day I buried my Willy. No natural fashion of words can explain it.
But that'll keep. Now let me look at'e. Fuller in the body seemin'ly, an' gypsy-brown, by God!
So brown as me, every bit. Well, well, I caan't say nothin'. I'm carried off my legs wi' wonder,
an' joy, tu, for that matter. Next to Phoebe an' mother I allus loved 'e best. Gimme a kiss.
What a woman, to be sure! Like a thief in the night you went; same way you've comed back. Why
couldn't 'e wait till marnin'?"

"The childer--they grawed to love me that dear--also the men an' women. They've been gude to
me beyond power o' words for faither's sake. They knawed I was gwaine, an' I left 'em asleep.
'T was how they found me when I runned away. I falled asleep from weariness on the Moor, an'
they woke me, an' I thrawed in my lot with them from the day I left that pencil-written word
for 'e on the window-ledge."

"Me bein' in the valley lookin' for your drowned body the while! Women 'mazes me more the wiser
I graw. Come this way, to the linhay. There's a sweet bed o' dry fern in the loft, and you
must keep out o' sight till mother's told cunning. I'll hit upon a way to break it to her so
soon as she's rose. An' if I caan't, Phoebe will. Come along quiet. An' I be gwaine to lock
'e in, Chris, if't is all the same to you. For why? Because you might fancy the van folks was
callin' to 'e, an' grow hungry for the rovin' life again."

She made no objection, and asked one more question as they went to the building.

"How be Mrs. Hicks, my Clem's mother?"

"Alive; that's all. A poor auld bed-lier now; just fading away quiet. But weak in the head
as a baaby. Mother sees her now an' again. She never talks of nothin' but snuff. 'T is the
awnly brightness in her life. She's forgot everythin' 'bout the past, an' if you went to see
her, she'd hold out her hand an' say, 'Got a little bit o' snuff for a auld body, dearie? 'an'
that's all."

They talked a little longer, while Will shook down a cool bed of dry fern--not ill-suited to
the sultry night; then Chris kissed him again, and he locked her in and returned to Phoebe.

Though the wanderer presently slept peacefully enough, there was little more repose that night
for her brother or his wife. Phoebe herself became much affected by the tremendous news. Then
they talked into the early dawn before any promising mode of presenting Chris to her mother
occurred to them. At breakfast Will followed a suggestion of Phoebe's, and sensibly lessened
the shock of his announcement.

"A 'mazin' wonnerful dream I had last night," he began abruptly. "I thought I was roused long
arter midnight by a gert knocking, an' I went down house an' found a woman at the door. 'Who
be you?' I sez. 'Why, I be Chris, brother Will,' she speaks back, 'Chris, come home-along to
mother an' you.' Then I seed it was her sure enough, an' she telled me all about herself, an'
how she'd dwelt wi' gypsy people. Natural as life it weer, I assure 'e."

This parable moved Mrs. Blanchard more strongly than Will expected. She dropped her piece of
bread and dripping, grew pale, and regarded her son with frightened eyes. Then she spoke.

"Tell me true, Will; don't 'e play with a mother 'bout a life-an'-death thing like her cheel.
I heard voices in the night, an' thought 't was a dream--but--oh, bwoy, not Chris, not our
awn Chris!--'t would 'most kill me for pure joy, I reckon."

"Listen to me, mother, an' eat your food. Us won't have no waste here, as you knaw very well.
I haven't tawld 'e the end of the story. Chris, 'pearin' to be back again, I thinks, 'this
will give mother palpitations, though 't is quite a usual thing for a darter to come back to
her mother,' so I takes her away to the linhay for the night an' locks her in; an' if 't was
true, she might be theer now, an' if it weer n't--"

Damaris rose, and held the table as she did so, for her knees were weak under her.

"I be strong--strong to meet my awn darter. Gimme the key, quick--the key, Will--do 'e hear
me, child?"

"I'll come along with 'e."

"No, I say. What! Ban't I a young woman still? 'T was awnly essterday Chris corned in the world.
You just bide with Phoebe, an' do what I tell 'e."

Will handed over the key at this order, and Mrs. Blanchard, grasping it without a word, passed
unsteadily across the farmyard. She fumbled at the lock, and dropped the key once, but picked
it up quickly before Will could reach her, then she unfastened the door and entered.

CHAPTER II

HOPE RENEWED

Jon Grimbal's desires toward Blanchard lay dormant, and the usual interests of life filled
his mind. The attitude he now assumed was one of sustained patience and observation; and it
may best be described in words of his own employment.

Visiting Drewsteignton, about a month after the return of Chris Blanchard to her own, the man
determined to extend his ride and return by devious ways. He passed, therefore, where the unique
Devonian cromlech stands hard by Bradmere pool. A lane separates this granite antiquity from
the lake below, and as John Grimbal rode between them, his head high enough to look over the
hedge, he observed a ladder raised against the Spinsters' Rock, as the cromlech is called,
and a man with a tape-measure sitting on the cover stone.

It was the industrious Martin, home once again. After his difference with Blanchard, the antiquary
left Devon for another tour in connection with his work, and had devoted the past six months
to study of prehistoric remains in Guernsey, Herm, and other of the Channel Islands.

Before departing, he had finally regained his brother's friendship, though the close fraternal
amity of the past appeared unlikely to return between them. Now John recognised Martin, and
his first impulse produced pleasure, while his second was one of irritation. He felt glad to
see his brother; he experienced annoyance that Martin should thus return to Chagford and not
call immediately at the Red House.

"Hullo! Home again! I suppose you forgot you had a brother?"

"John, by all that's surprising! Forget? Was it probable? Have I so many flesh-and-blood friends
to remember? I arrived yesterday and called on you this morning, only to find you were at Drewsteignton;
so I came to verify some figures at the cromlech, hoping we might meet the sooner."

He was beside his brother by this time, and they shook hands over the hedge.

"I'll leave the ladder and walk by you and have a chat."

"It's too hot to ride at a walk. Come you here to Bradmere Pool. We can lie down in the shade
by the water, and I'll tether my horse for half an hour."

Five minutes later the brothers sat under the shadow of oaks and beeches at the edge of a little
tarn set in fine foliage.

"Pleasant to see you," said Martin. "And looking younger I do think. It's the open air. I'll
wager you don't get slimmer in the waist-belt though."

"Yes, I'm all right."

"What's the main interest of life for you now?"

John reflected before answering.

"Not quite sure. Depends on my mood. Just been buying a greyhound bitch at Drewsteignton. I'm
going coursing presently. A kennel will amuse me. I spend most of my time with dogs. They never
change. I turn to them naturally. But they overrate humanity."

"Our interests are so different. Yet both belong to the fresh air and the wild places remote
from towns. My book is nearly finished. I shall publish it in a year's time, or even less."

"Have you come back to stop?"

"Yes, for good and all now."

"You have found no wife in your wanderings?"

"No, John. I shall never marry. That was a dark spot in my life, as it was in yours. We both
broke our shins over that."

"I broke nothing--but another man's bones."

He was silent for a moment, then proceeded abruptly on this theme.

"The old feeling is pretty well dead though. I look on and watch the man ruining himself; I
see his wife getting hard-faced and thin, and I wonder what magic was in her, and am quite
content. I wouldn't kick him a yard quicker to the devil if I could. I watch him drift there."

"Don't talk like that, dear old chap. You're not the man you pretend to be, and pretend to
think yourself. Don't sour your nature so. Let the past lie and go into the world and end this
lonely existence."

"Why don't you?"

"The circumstances are different. I am not a man for a wife. You are, if ever there was one."

"I had him within a hair's-breadth once," resumed the other inconsequently. "Blanchard, I mean.
There 's a secret against him. You didn't know that, but there is. Some black devilry for all
I can tell. But I missed it. Perhaps if I knew it would quicken up my spirit and remind me
of all the brute made me endure."

"Yet you say the old feeling is dead!"

"So it is--starved. Hicks knew. He broke his neck an hour too soon. It was like a dream of
a magnificent banquet I had some time ago. I woke with my mouth watering, just as the food
was uncovered, and I felt so damned savage at being done out of the grub that I got up and
went down-stairs and had half a pint of champagne and half a cold roast partridge! I watch
Blanchard go down the hill--that's all. If this knowledge had come to me when I was boiling,
I should have used it to his utmost harm, of course. Now I sometimes doubt, even if I could
hang the man, whether I should take the trouble to do it."

"Get away from him and all thought of him."

"I do. He never crosses my mind unless he crosses my eyes. I ride past Newtake occasionally,
and see him sweating and slaving and fighting the Moor. Then I laugh, as you laugh at a child
building sand castles against an oncoming tide. Poor fool!"

"If you pity, you might find it in your heart to forgive."

"My attitude is assured. We will call it one of mere indifference. You made up that row over
the gate-post when his first child died, didn't you?"

"Yes, yes. We shall be friendly--we must be, if only for the sake of the memory of Chris. You
and I are frank to-day. But you saw long ago what I tried to hide, so it is no news to you.
You will understand. When Hicks died I thought perhaps after years--but that's over now. She
's gone."

"Didn't you know? She 's back again."

"Back! Good God!"

John laughed at his brother's profound agitation.

"Like as not you'd see her if you went over Rushford Bridge. She 's back with her mother. Queer
devils, all of them; but I suppose you can have her for the asking now if you couldn't before.
Damnably like her brother she is. She passed me two days ago, and looked at me as if I was
transparent, or a mere shadow hiding something else."

A rush of feeling overwhelmed Martin before this tremendous news. He could not trust himself
to speak. Then a great hope wrestled with him and conquered. In his own exaltation he desired
to see all whom he loved equally lifted up towards happiness.

"I wish to Heaven you would open your eyes and raise them from your dogs and find a wife, John."

"Ah! We all want the world to be a pretty fairy tale for our friends. You scent your own luck
ahead, and wish me to be lucky too. I ought to thank you for that; but, instead, I'll give
you some advice. Don't bother yourself with the welfare of others; to do that is to ruin your
own peace of mind and court more trouble than your share. Every big-hearted man is infernally
miserable--he can't help it. The only philosopher's stone is a stone heart; that is what the
world 's taught me."

"Never! You're echoing somebody else, not yourself, I'll swear. I know you better. We must
see much of each other in the future. I shall buy a little trap that I may drive often to the
Red House. And I should like to dedicate my book to you, if you would take it as a compliment."

"No, no; give it to somebody who may be able to serve you. I'm a fool in such things and know
no more about the old stones than the foxes and rabbits that burrow among them. Come, I must
get home. I'm glad you have returned, though I hated you when you supported them against me;
but then love of family 's a mere ghost against love of women. Besides, how seldom it is that
a man's best friend is one of his own blood."

They rose and departed. John trotted away through Sandypark, having first made Martin promise
to sup with him that night, and the pedestrian proceeded by the nearest road to Rushford Bridge.

Chris he did not see, but it happened that Mr. Lyddon met him just outside Monks Barton, and
though Martin desired no such thing at the time, nothing would please the miller but that his
friend should return to the farm for some conversation.

"Home again, an' come to glasses, tu! Well, they clear the sight, an' we must all wear 'em
sooner or late. 'T is a longful time since I seed 'e, to be sure."

"All well, I hope?"

"Nothing to grumble at. Billy an' me go down the hill as gradual an' easy as any man 's a right
to expect. But he's gettin' so bald as a coot; an' now the shape of his head comes to be knawed,
theer 's wonnerful bumps 'pon it. Then your brother's all for sport an' war. A Justice of the
Peace they've made un, tu. He's got his volunteer chaps to a smart pitch, theer's no gainsaying.
A gert man for wild diversions he is. Gwaine coursin' wi' long-dogs come winter, they tell me."

"And how are Phoebe and her husband?"

"A little under the weather just now; but I'm watchin' 'em unbeknawnst. Theer's a glimmer of
hope in the dark if you'll believe it, for Will ackshally comed to me esster-night to ax my
advice--my advice--on a matter of stock! What do 'e think of that?"

"He was fighting a losing battle in a manly sort of way it seemed to me when last I saw him."

"So he was, and is. I give him eighteen month or thereabout--then'll come the end of it."

"The 'end'! What end? You won't let them starve? Your daughter and the little children?"

"You mind your awn business, Martin," said Mr. Lyddon, with nods and winks. "No, they ban't
gwaine to starve, but my readin' of Will's carater has got to be worked out. Tribulation's
what he needs to sweeten him, same as winter sweetens sloes; an' 't is tribulation I mean him
to have. If Phoebe's self caan't change me or hurry me 't is odds you won't. Theer's a darter
for 'e! My Phoebe. She'll often put in a whole week along o' me still. You mind this: if it's
grawn true an' thrawn true from the plantin', a darter's love for a faither lasts longer 'n
any mortal love at all as I can hear tell of. It don't wear out wi' marriage, neither, as I've
found, thank God. Phoebe rises above auld age and the ugliness an' weakness an' bad temper
of auld age. Even a poor, doddering ancient such as I shall be in a few years won't weary her;
she'll look back'ards with butivul clear eyes, an' won't forget. She'll see--not awnly a cracked,
shrivelled auld man grizzling an' grumbling in the chimbley corner, but what the man was wance--a
faither, strong an' lusty, as dandled her, an' worked for, an' loved her with all his heart
in the days of his bygone manhood. Ess, my Phoebe's all that; an' she comes here wi' the child;
an' it pleases me, for rightly onderstood, childern be a gert keeper-off of age."

"I'm sure she's a good daughter to you, Miller. And Will?"

"Doan't you fret. We've worked it out in our minds--me an' Billy; an' if two auld blids like
us can't hatch a bit o' wisdom, what brains is worth anything? We'm gwaine to purify the awdacious
young chap 'so as by fire,' in holy phrase."

"You're dealing with a curious temperament."

"I'm dealing with a damned fule," said Mr. Lyddon frankly; "but theer's fules an' fules, an'
this partickler wan's grawed dear to me in some ways despite myself. 'T is Phoebe's done it
at bottom I s'pose. The man's so full o' life an' hope. Enough energy in un for ten men; an'
enough folly for twenty. Yet he've a gude heart an' never lied in's life to my knawledge."

"That's to give him praise, and high praise. How's his sister? I hear she's returned after all."

"Ess--naughty twoad of a gal--runned arter the gypsies! But she'm sobered now. Funny to think
her mother, as seemed like a woman robbed of her right hand when Chris went, an' beginned to
graw into the sere onusual quick for a widow, took new life as soon as her gal comed back.
Just shaws what strength lies in a darter, as I tell 'e."

The old man's garrulity gained upon him, and though Martin much desired to be gone, he had
not the heart to hasten.

"A darter's the thing an'--but't is a secret yet--awnly you'll see what you'll see. Coourse
Billy's very well for gathered wisdom and high conversation 'bout the world to come; but he
ban't like a woman round the house, an' for all his ripe larnin' he'll strike fire sometimes--mostly
when I gives him a bad beating at 'Oaks' of a evenin'. Then he'm so acid as auld rhubarb, an'
dots off to his bed wi'out a 'gude-night.'"

For another ten minutes Mr. Lyddon chattered, but at the end of that time Martin escaped and
proceeded homewards. His head throbbed and his mind was much excited by the intelligence of
the day. The yellow stubbles, the green meadows, the ploughed lands similarly spun before him
and whirled up to meet the sky. As he re-entered the village a butcher's cart nearly knocked
him down. Hope rose in a glorious new sunrise--the hope that he had believed was set for ever.
Then, passing that former home of Clement Hicks and his mother, did Grimbal feel great fear
and misgiving. The recollection of Chris and her love for the dead man chilled him. He remembered
his own love for Chris when he thought she must be dead. He told himself that he must hope
nothing; he repeated to himself how fulfilment of his desire, now revived after long sleep,
might still be as remote as when Chris Blanchard said him nay in the spring wastes under Newtake
five years and more ago. His head dinned this upon his heart; but his heart would not believe
and responded with a sanguine song of great promise.

CHAPTER III

ANSWERED

At a spot in the woods some distance below Newtake, Martin Grimbal sat and waited, knowing
she whom he sought must pass that way. He had called at the farm and been welcomed by Phoebe.
Will was on the peat beds, and, asking after Chris, he learnt that she had gone into the valley
to pick blackberries and dewberries, where they already began to ripen in the coombs.

Under aisles of woodland shadows he sat, where the river murmured down mossy stairs of granite
in a deep dingle. Above him, the varying foliage of oak and ash and silver birch was already
touched with autumn, and trembled into golden points where bosses of pristine granite, crowned
with the rowan's scarlet harvest, arose above their luxuriance. The mellow splendour of these
forests extended to the river's brink, along which towered noble masses of giant osmunda, capped
by seed spears of tawny red. Here and there gilded lances splashed into the stream or dotted
its still pools with scattered sequins of sunshine, where light winnowed through the dome of
the leaves; and at one spot, on a wrinkled root that wound crookedly from the alder into the
river, there glimmered a halcyon, like an opal on a miser's bony finger. From above the tree-tops
there sounded cynic bird-laughter, and gazing upwards Martin saw a magpie flaunt his black
and white plumage across the valley; while at hand the more musical merriment of a woodpecker
answered him.

Then a little child's laugh came to his ear, rippling along with the note of the babbling water,
and one moment later a small, sturdy boy appeared. A woman accompanied him. She had slipped
a foot into the river, and thus awakened the amusement of her companion.

Chris steadied herself after the mishap, balanced her basket more carefully, then stooped down
to pick some of the berries that had scattered from it on the bank. When she rose a man with
a brown face and soft grey eyes gleaming through gold-rimmed spectacles appeared immediately
before.

"Thank God I see you alive again. Thank God!" he said with intense feeling, as he took her
hand and shook it warmly. "The best news that ever made my heart glad, Chris."

She welcomed him, and he, looking into her eyes, saw new knowledge there, a shadow of sobriety,
less of the old dance and sparkle. But he remembered the little tremulous updrawing of her
lip when a smile was born, and her voice rang fuller and sweeter than any music he had ever
heard since last she spoke to him. A smile of welcome she gave him, indeed, and a pressure
of his hand that sent magic messages with it to the very core of him. He felt his blood leap
and over his glasses came a dimness.

"I was gwaine to write first moment I heard 'e was home. An' I wish I had, for I caan't tell
'e what I feel. To think of 'e searchin' the wide world for such a good-for-nought! I thank
you for your generous gudeness, Martin. I'll never forget it--never. But I wasn't worth no
such care."

"Not worth it! It proved the greatest, bitterest grief of all my life--but one--that I couldn't
find you. We grew by cruel stages to think--to think you were dead. The agony of that for us!
But, thank God, it was not so. All at least is well with you now?"

"All ban't never well with men an' women. But I'm more fortunate than I deserve to be, and
can make myself of use. I've lived a score of years since we met. An I've comed back to find't
is a difficult world for those I love best, unfortunately."

Thus, in somewhat disjointed fashion, Chris made answer.

"Sit a while and speak to me," replied Martin. "The laddie can play about. Look at him marching
along with that great branch of king fern over his shoulder!"

"'T is an elfin cheel some ways. Wonnerful eyes he've got. They burn me if I look at'em close,"
said Chris. She regarded Timothy without sentiment and her eyes were bright and hard.

"I hope he will turn out well. Will spoke of him the other day. He is very fond of the child.
It is singularly like him, too--a sort of little pocket edition of him."

"So I've heard others say. Caan't see it at all myself. Look at the eyes of un."

"Will believes the boy has got very unusual intelligence and may go far."

"May go so far as the workhouse," she answered, with a laugh. Georges, seated on the right of
Léridant, who held the reins, had turned to the back of the carriage and tried to follow the
fortunes of the pursuit through the glass.

The moment that he had jumped into the carriage, he had seen the
detectives, and said to Léridant: "Whip him, whip him hard!"

"To go where?" asked the other.

"I do not know, but we must fly!"

And the horse, tingling with blows, galloped off.

At the end of the Passage des Jacobins, which at a sharp angle ended
in the Rue de la Harpe, Léridant was obliged to slow up in order to
turn on the Place Saint-Michel, and not miss the entrance to the Rue
des Fossés-Monsieur-le-Prince.

He turned towards the Rue du Four, hoping, thanks to the steepness of the Rue des Fossés, to
distance the detectives and arrive at Caron's before they caught
up with the carriage.

From where he was Georges could not, through the little window, see Caniolle crouched behind the
hood. But he saw others running with all their might.

Destavigny and Petit had indeed continued the pursuit, and their cries brought out all the
spies posted in the quarter. Just as Léridant wildly dashed into the Rue des Fossés, a whole
pack of policemen rushed upon him.

At the approach of this whirlwind the frightened passers-by shrank into the shelter of the
doorways. Their minds were so haunted by one idea that at the sight of this cab flying past in
the dark with the noise of whips, shouts, oaths, and the resonant
clang of the horse's hoofs on the pavement, a single cry broke forth,
"Georges!

Georges! it is Georges!"

Anxious faces appeared at the windows, and from every door people came out, who began to run
without knowing it, drawn along as by a waterspout. Did Georges see
in this a last hope of safety?

Did he believe he could escape in the crowd? However that may be, at the top of the Rue Voltaire
he jumped out into the street. Caniolle, at the same moment, left the back of the cab-- which
Petit, and another policeman called Buffet, had at last succeeded in outrunning,-- threw himself
on the reins, and allowing himself to be dragged along, mastered the horse, which stopped, exhausted.
Buffet took one step towards Georges, who stretched him dead with a pistol shot; with a second ball
the Chouan rid himself, for a moment at least, of Caniolle. He still thought, probably, that
he could hide himself in the crowd; and perhaps he would have succeeded, for Destavigny, who
had run up, "saw him before him, standing with all the tranquillity
of a man who has nothing to fear, and three or four people near him
appeared not to be thinking more about Georges than anything else."

He was going to turn the corner of the Rue de l'Observance when Caniolle, who was only wounded, struck
him with his club. In an instant Georges was surrounded, thrown down, searched and bound. The
next morning more than forty individuals, among them several women,
made themselves known to the judge as being each "the principal author"
of the arrest of the "brigand" chief.

By way of the Carrefour de la Comédie, the Rues des Fossés Saint-Germain and Dauphine, Georges,
tied with cords, was taken to the Prefecture. A growing mob escorted him, more out of curiosity
than anger, and one can imagine the excitement at police headquarters when they heard far off on
the Quai des Orfèvres, the increasing tumult announcing the event, and when suddenly, from the
corps de garde in the salons of the Prefect Dubois the news came,
"Georges is taken!"

A minute later the vanquished outlaw was pushed into the office of Dubois, who was still at
dinner.

In spite of his bonds he still showed so much pride and coolness
that the all-powerful functionary was almost afraid of him.

Desmaret, who was present, could not himself escape this feeling.

"Georges, whom I saw for the first time," he said, "had always been to me a sort of Old Man
of the Mountain, sending his assassins far and near, against the powers. I found, on the contrary,
an open face, bright eyes, fresh complexion, and a look firm but
gentle, as was also his voice.

Although stout, his movements and manner were easy; his head quite
round, with short curly hair, no whiskers, and nothing to indicate
the chief of a mortal conspiracy, who had long dominated the landes
of Brittany.

I was present when Comte Dubois, the prefect of police, questioned him. His ease amidst all
the hubbub, his answers, firm, frank, cautious and couched in well-chosen
language, contrasted greatly with my ideas about him."

Indeed his first replies showed a disconcerting calm. One may be quoted. When Dubois, not knowing
where to begin, rather foolishly reproached him with the death of
Buffet,'the father of a family,'Georges smilingly gave him this advice:--'Next
time, then, have me arrested by bachelors.'"His courageous pride
did not fail him either in the interrogations he had to submit to,
or before the court of justice.

His replies to the President are superb in disdain and abnegation. He assumed all responsibility
for the plot, and denied knowledge of any of his friends. He carried his generosity so far as to
behave with courteous dignity even to those who had betrayed him;
he even tried to excuse the indifference of the princes whose selfish
inertia had been his ruin.

He remained great until he reached the scaffold; eleven faithful Chouans died with him, among
the number being Louis Picot, Joyaut and Burban, whose names have appeared
in this story. Thus ended the conspiracy.

Bonaparte came out of it emperor. Fouché, minister of police, and his assistants were not going
to be useless, for if in the eyes of the public, Georges'death seemed
the climax, it was in reality but one incident in a desperate struggle.

The depths sounded by the investigation had revealed the existence of an incurable evil. The whole
west of France was cankered with Chouannerie. From Rouen to Nantes,
from Cherbourg to Poitiers, thousands of peasants, bourgeois and country
gentlemen remained faithful to the old order, and if they were not
all willing to take up arms in its cause, they could at least do much
to upset the equilibrium of the new government.

And could not another try to do what Georges Cadoudal had attempted? If some one with more influence
over the princes than he possessed should persuade one of them to cross the Channel, what would the glory
of the parvenu count for, balanced against the ancient prestige of the name
of Bourbon, magnified and as it were sanctified by the tragedies of
the Revolution? This fear haunted Bonaparte; the knowledge that in
France these Bourbons, exiled, without soldiers or money, were still
more the masters then he, exasperated him.

He felt that he was in their home, and their nonchalance, contrasted with his incessant agitation,
indicated both insolence and disdain. The police, as a matter of fact, had unearthed only a few
of the conspirators. Many who, like Raoul Gaillard, had played an important
part in the plot, had succeeded in escaping all pursuit; they were
evidently the cleverest, therefore the most dangerous, and among
them might be found a man ambitious of succeeding Cadoudal.

The capture to which Fouché and Réal attached the most importance was that
of d'Aché, whose presence at Biville and Saint-Leu had been proved.
For three months, in Paris even, wherever the police had worked,
they had struck the trail of this same d'Aché, who appeared to have
presided over the whole organisation of the plot.

Thus, he had been seen at Verdet's in the Rue du Puits-de-l'Hermite,
while Georges was there; he had met Raoul Gaillard several times;
in making an inventory of the papers of a young lady called Margeot,
with whom Pichegru had dined, two rather enigmatical notes had been
found, in which d'Aché's name appeared.

  
   Mme. d'Aché and her eldest daughter had been since February in the
Madelonnettes prison; the second girl, Alexandrine, had been left
at liberty in the hope that in Paris, where she was a stranger, she
would be guilty of some imprudence that would deliver her father to
the police.

She had taken lodgings in the Rue Traversière-Saint-Honoré, at the Hôtel des Treize-Cantons, and Réal
had immediately set two spies upon her, but their reports were monotonously melancholy." Very
well behaved, very quiet-- she lives, and is daily with the master and mistress of the hotel, people
of mature age. She sees no one, and is spoken of in the highest terms.
"From this side, also, all hope of catching d'Aché had to be abandoned.

Another way was thought of, and on March 22d the order to open all the gates was given. Fouché foresaw that
in their anxiety to leave Paris all of Georges'accomplices who had not been caught would hasten
to return to Normandy, and thanks to the watchfulness exercised, a clean sweep might be made
of them. The cleverly conceived idea had some result. On the 25th
a peasant called Jacques Pluquet of Meriel, near l'Isle-Adam, when
working in his field on the border of the wood of La Muette, saw
four men in hats pulled down over cotton caps, and with strong knotted
clubs, coming towards him.

They asked him if they could cross the Oise at Meriel.

Pluquet replied that it was easy to do so," but there were gendarmes to examine all who passed.
"At that they hesitated. They described themselves as conscript deserters
coming from Valenciennes who wished to get back to their homes. Pluquet's
account is so picturesque as to be worth quoting:" I asked them where
they belonged; they replied in Alençon.

I remarked that they would have trouble in getting there without being arrested. One of them said:'That
is true, for after what had just happened in Paris, everywhere is guarded.'Then,
allowing the three others to go on ahead, he said to me,'But if they
arrest us, what will they do to us?'I replied:'They will take you
back to your corps, from brigade to brigade.'On that he said,'If they
catch us, they will make us do ten thousand leagues.'And he left me
to regain his comrades, the youngest of whom might have been twenty-two
years old and seemed very sad and tired.

"The next morning some people at Auvers found a little log cabin in a wood in which the four
men had spent the night. They were seen on the following days, wandering in the forest of
l'Isle-Adam.

At last, on April 1st they went to the ferryman of Meriel, Eloi Cousin, who was sheltering two
gendarmes. While they were begging the ferryman to take them in his boat, the gendarmes appeared,
and the men fled. A pistol shot struck one of them, and a second, who stopped to assist his
comrade, was also taken. The two others escaped to the woods. The wounded man was put in a boat
and taken to the hospital at Pontoise, where he died the next day.
Réal, who was immediately informed of it, immediately sent Querelle,
whom he was carefully keeping in prison to use in case of need, and
he at once recognised the corpse to be that of Raoul Gaillard, called
Houvel, or Saint-Vincent, the friend of d'Aché, the principal advance-agent
of Georges.

  The other prisoner
     was his brother
    Armand, who was immediately
     taken to Paris and thrown into the Temple. The commune of Meriel had
deserved well of the country, and the First Consul showed his satisfaction
in a dazzling manner.

He expressed a desire to make the acquaintance of this population
so devoted to his person, and on the 8th of April, the sous-prefet
of Pontoise presented himself at the Tuileries at the head of all
the men of the village.

Bonaparte congratulated them personally, and as a more substantial proof of his gratitude,
distributed among them a sum of 11,000 francs, found in Raoul Gaillard's
belt.

This was certainly a glorious event for the peasants of Meriel, but
it had an unexpected result.

When they returned the next day they learned that a stranger," well dressed, well armed and mounted
on a fine horse, "profiting by their absence, had gone to the village,
and," after many questions addressed to the women and children, had
gone to the place where Raoul Gaillard was wounded, trying to find
out if they had not found a case, to which he seemed to attach great
importance.

"This incident reminded them that, in the boat that took him to Pontoise,
Raoul Gaillard, then dying, had anxiously asked if a razor-case had
been found among his things. On receiving a negative reply," he had appeared
to be very much put out, and was heard to murmur that the fortune
of the man who would discover this case was made. "The visits of this
stranger-- since seen," in the country, on the heights and near the woods,
"-- his threats of vengeance, and this mysterious case, provided matter
for a report that perplexed Réal.

Was this not d'Aché? A great hunt was organised in the forest of Carnelle,
but it brought no result.

Four days later they explored the forest of Montmorency, where some signs of the" brigands'"occupation
were seen, but of d'Aché no trace at all, and in spite of the fierceness that Réal's men, incited
by the promise of large rewards, brought to this chase of the Chouans, after weeks and months
of research, of enquiries, tricks, false trails followed, and traps
uselessly laid, it had to be admitted that the police had lost the
scent, and that Georges'clever accomplice had long since disappeared.

CHAPTER III THE COMBRAYS At the period of our story there existed in
the department of the Eure, on the left bank of the Seine, beyond
Gaillon, a large old manor-house, backed by the hill that extended
as far as Andelys; it was called the Château de Tournebut.

Although its peaked roofs could be seen from the river above a thicket
of low trees, Tournebut was off the main route of travel, whether
by land or water, from Rouen to Paris.

Some fairly large woods separated it from the highroad which runs from Gaillon
to Saint-Cyr-de-Vaudreuil, while the barges usually touched at the
hamlet of Roule, where hacks were hired to take passengers and goods
to the ferry of Muids, thereby saving them the long détour made by
the Seine.

Tournebut was thus isolated between these two much-travelled roads. Its principal façade, facing east,
towards the river, consisted of two heavy turrets, one against the other,
built of brick and stone in the style of Louis XIII, with great slate
roofs and high dormer windows.

After these came a lower and more modern building, ending with the chapel.
In front of the château was an old square bastion forming a terrace,
whose mossy walls were bathed by the waters of a large stagnant marsh.

The west front which was plainer, was separated by only a few feet of
level ground from the abrupt, wooded hill by which Tournebut was
sheltered.

A wall with several doors opening on the woods enclosed the château, the farm and the lower
part of the park, and a wide morass, stretching from the foot of the terrace to the Seine, rendered
access impossible from that side. By the marriage of Geneviève de Bois-l'Evêque, Lady of Tournebut,
this mansion had passed to the family of Marillac, early in the
seventeenth century. The Marshal Louis de Marillac-- uncle of Mme.

Legras, collaborator of St. Vincent de Paul-- had owned it from 1613 to 1631, and tradition asserted
that during his struggle against Cardinal Richelieu he had established there a plant for counterfeiting
money. To him was due the construction of the brick wing which remained
unfinished, his condemnation to death for peculation having put a
stop to the embellishments he had intended to make. There are very
few châteaux left in France like this romantic manor of a dead and
gone past, whose stones have endured all the crises of our history,
and to which each century has added a tower, or a legend.

Tournebut, at the beginning of the nineteenth century, was a perfect type
of these old dwellings, where there were so many great halls and so
few living rooms, and whose high slate roofs covered intricacies
of framework forming lofts vast as cathedrals.

It was said that its thick walls were pierced by secret passages and
contained hiding-places that Louis de Marillac had formerly used.
In 1804 Tournebut was inhabited by the Marquise de Combray, born
Geneviève de Brunelles, daughter of a President of the Cour des Comptes
of Normandy.

Her husband, Jean-Louis-Armand-Emmanuel Hélie de Combray, had died in 1784, leaving her with two sons
and two daughters, and a great deal of property in the environs of Falaise, in the parishes
of Donnay, Combray, Bonnoeil and other places. Madame de Combray had inherited Tournebut from her
mother, Madeleine Hubert, herself a daughter of a councillor in the Parliament of Normandy. Besides
the château and the farm, which were surrounded by a park well-wooded with old trees, the domain
included the woods that covered the hillside, at the extremity of which
was an old tower, formerly a wind-mill, built over deep quarries,
and called the" Tower of the Burned Mill, "or" The Hermitage. "It
figures in the ancient plans of the country under the latter name,
which it owes to the memory of an old hermit who lived in the quarries
for many years and died there towards the close of the reign of Louis
XV, leaving a great local reputation for holiness.

Mme. de Combray was of a" haughty and imperious nature; her soul
was strong and full of energy; she knew how to brave danger and public
opinion; the boldest projects did not frighten her, and her ambition
was unbounded.

"Such is the picture that one of her most irreconcilable enemies
has drawn of her, and we shall see that the principal traits were
faithfully described.

But to complete the resemblance one must first of all plead an extenuating circumstance: Madame
de Combray was a fanatical royalist. Even that, however, would not
make her story intelligible, if one did not make allowance for the
Calvary that the faithful royalists travelled through so many years,
each station of which was marked by disillusions and failures.

Since the war on the nobles had begun in 1789, all their efforts at resistance,
disdainful at first, stubborn later on, blundering always, had been
pitifully abortive.

Their rebuffs could no longer be counted, and there was some justification
in that for the scornful hatred on the part of the new order towards a caste
which for so many centuries had believed themselves to be possessed
of all the talents. Many of them, it is true, had resigned themselves
to defeat, but the Intransigeants continued to struggle obstinately;
and to say truth, this tenacious attachment to the ghost of monarchy
was not without grandeur.

From the very beginning of the Revolution the Marquise de Combray had numbered herself among the
unchangeable royalists. Her husband, a timorous and quiet man, who employed in reading the hours
that he did not consecrate to sleep, had long since abandoned to her the direction of the household
and the management of his fortune.

Widowhood had but strengthened the authority of the Marquise, who reigned over a little world
of small farmers, peasants and servants, more timid, perhaps, than
devoted.

She exacted complete obedience from her children. The eldest son, called the Chevalier de Bonnoeil,
after a property near the Château of Donnay, in the environs of Falaise, supported the maternal
yoke patiently; he was an officer in the Royal Dragoons at the time
of the Revolution. His younger brother, Timoléon de Combray, was of
a less docile nature.

On leaving the military school, as his father was just dead he solicited from M. de Vergennes
a mission in an uncivilised country and set sail for Morocco. Timoléon was a liberal-minded man,
of high intellectual culture, and a philosophical scepticism that
fitted ill with the Marquise's authoritative temper; although a devoted
and respectful man, it was to get away from his mother's tutelage
that he expatriated himself."

Our diversity of opinion, "he said later on," has kept me from spending two consecutive months with
her in seventeen years. "From Morocco he went to Algiers and thence to
Tunis and Egypt.

He was about to penetrate to Tartary when he heard of the outbreak of the Revolution; and immediately
started for France where he arrived at the beginning of 1791.

Of Mme. de Combray's two daughters the eldest had married, in 1787,
at the age of twenty-two, Jacques-Philippe-Henri d'Houël; the youngest
Caroline-Madeleine-Louise-Geneviève, was born in 1773, and consequently
was only eleven years old when her father died.

This child is the heroine of the drama we are about to relate. In August, 1791, Mme. de Combray inscribed
herself and her two sons on the list of the hostages of Louis XVI which the journalist Durosay had
conceived. It was a courageous act, for it was easy to foresee that the six hundred and eleven names
on" this golden book of fidelity, "would soon all be suspected. While
hope remained for the monarchy the two brothers struggled bravely.

Timoléon stayed near the King till August 10, and only went to England after
he had taken part in the defence of the Tuileries; Bonnoeil had emigrated
the preceding year, and served in the army of the Princes.

Mme. de Combray, left alone with her two daughters-- the husband of the elder had also emigrated,--
left Tournebut in 1793, and settled in Rouen, where, although she owned much real estate in the
town, she rented in the Rue de Valasse, Faubourg Bouvreuil," an isolated, unnumbered house, with
an entrance towards the country. "She gave her desire to finish the education of her younger daughter
who was entering her twentieth year as a reason for her retreat.
Caroline de Combray was very small,--" as large as a dog sitting, "they
said,-- but charming; her complexion was delicately pure, her black
hair of extraordinary length and abundance. She was loving and sensible,
very romantic, full of frankness and vivacity; the great attraction
of her small person was the result of a piquant combination of energy
and gentleness.

She had been brought up in the convent of the Nouvelles Catholiques de Caen, where she stayed six
years, receiving lessons from" masters of all sorts of accomplishments, and of different languages.
"She was a musician and played the harp, and as soon as they were
settled in Rouen her mother engaged Boiëldieu as her accompanist,"
to whom she long paid six silver francs per lesson, "a sum that seemed
fabulous in that period of paper-money, and territorial mandates.

Madame de Combray, besides, was much straightened. As both her sons had emigrated, all the property
that they inherited from their father was sequestrated. Of the income
of 50,000 francs possessed by the family before the Revolution, scarcely
fifty remained at her disposal, and she had been obliged to borrow
to sustain the heavy expenses of her house in Rouen.

Besides her two daughters and the servants, she housed half a dozen nuns and two or three Chartreux,
among them a recusant friar called Lemercier, who soon gained great
influence in the household.

By reason of his refractoriness Père Lemercier was doomed, if discovered, to death, or at least
to deportation, and it will be understood that he sympathised but
feebly with the Revolution that consigned him, against his will, to
martyrdom.

He called down the vengeance of heaven on the miscreants, and not
daring to show himself, with unquenchable ardour preached the holy
crusade to the women who surrounded him. Mme. de Combray's royalist
enthusiasm did not need this inspiration; a wise man would have counselled
resignation, or at least patience, but unhappily, she was surrounded
only by those whose fanaticism encouraged and excused her own.

Enthusiastic frenzy had become the habitual state of these people,
whose overheated imaginations were nourished on legendary tales,
and foolish hopes of imminent reprisals.

They welcomed with unfailing credulity the wildest prophecies, announcing
terrible impending massacres, to which the miraculous return of the
Bourbon lilies would put an end, and as illusions of this kind are
strengthened by their own deceptions, the house in the Rue de Valasse
soon heard mysterious voices, and became the scene" of celestial apparitions,
"which, on the invitation of Père Lemercier predicted the approaching
destruction of the blues and the restoration of the monarchy. '5 cane-seated chairs, 1 specimen of wax fruit
under glass.'"

"I caan't paart wi' that, lovey. Faither gived it to me; an' 'twas mother's wance on a time."

"Well, bein' a forced sale it ought to go. An' seein' how Miller's left us to sail our awn
boat to hell--but still, if you'm set on it."

He crossed it out, then suddenly laughed until the walls rang.

"Hush! You'll wake everybody. What do 'e find to be happy about?"

"I was thinkin' that down in them furrin, fiery paarts we'm gwaine to, as your wax plums an'
pears'll damned soon run away. They'll melt for sartin!"

"Caan't be so hot as that! The li'l gal will never stand it. Read on now. Theer ban't much
left, surely?"

"Scores o' things! '1 stuffed kingfisher in good case with painted picture at back; 1 fox mask;
1 mahogany 2-lap table; 1 warming-pan; Britannia metal teapot and 6 spoons ditto metal; 5 spoons--smaller--ditto
metal.'"

"I found the one us lost."

"Then 'tis '6 spoons--smaller--ditto metal.' Then, 'ironing stove; 5 irons; washing boiler;
4 fry pans; 2 chimney crooks; 6 saucepans; pestle and mortar; chimney ornaments; 4 coloured
almanacs--one with picture of the Queen--'"

"They won't fetch nothin'."

"They might. 'Knife sharper; screen; pot plants; 1 towel-rail; 1 runner; 2 forms; kitchen table;
scales and weights and beam; 1 set of casters; 4 farm horses, aged; 3 ploughs; 1 hay wain;
1 stack of dry fern; 1-1/2 tons good manure; old iron and other sundries, including poultry,
ducks, geese, and fowls.' That's all."

"Not quite; but I caan't call to mind much you've left out 'cept all the china an' linen."

"Ah! that's your job. An' I just sit here an' brought the things to my memory, wan by wan!
An' that bit at the top came easy as cutting a stick!"

"'Tis a wonnerful piece o' work! An' the piano, Will?"

"I hadn't forgot that. Must take it along wi' us, or else send it down to mother. Couldn't
look her in the faace if I sold that."

"Ban't worth much."

"Caan't say. Cost faither five pound, though that was long ago. Anyway I be gwaine to buy it in."

Silence then fell upon them. Phoebe sighed and shivered. A cock crew and his note came muffled
from the hen-roost. A dim grey dawn just served to indicate the recumbent carcasses without.

"Come to bed now an' take a little rest 'fore marnin', dearie. You've worked hard an' done
wonders."

"Ban't you surprised I could turn it out?"

"That I be. I'd never have thought 'twas in 'e. So forehanded, tu! A'most afore them poor things
be cold."

"'Tis the forehandedness I prides myself 'pon. Some of us doan't know all that's in me yet.
But they'll live to see it."

"I knaw right well they will."

"This'll 'maze mother to-morrow."

"'Twill, sure 'nough."

"Would 'e like me to read it just wance more wi'out stoppin', Phoebe?"

"No, dear love, not now. Give it to us all arter breakfast in the marnin'."

"So I will then; an' take it right away to the auctioneer the minute after."

He put his papers away in the drawer of the kitchen table and retired. Uneasy sleep presently
overtook him and long he tossed and turned, murmuring of his astonishment at his own powers
with a pen.

His impetuosity carried the ruined man forward with sufficient speed over the dark bitterness
of failure confessed, failure advertised, failure proclaimed in print throughout the confines
of his little world. He suffered much, and the wide-spread sympathy of friends and acquaintance
proved no anodyne but rather the reverse. He hated to see eyes grow grave and mouths serious
upon his entry; he yearned to turn his back against Chagford and resume the process of living
in a new environment. Temporary troubles vexed him more than the supreme disaster of his failure.
Mr. Bambridge made considerable alterations in his cherished lucubration; and when the advertisement
appeared in print, it looked mean and filled but a paltry space. People came up before the
sale to examine the goods, and Phoebe, after two days of whispered colloquies upon her cherished
property, could bear it no longer, and left Newtake with her own little daughter and little
Timothy. The Rev. Shorto-Champernowne himself called, stung Will into sheer madness, which
he happily restrained, then purchased an old oak coffer for two pounds and ten shillings.

Miller Lyddon made no sign, and hard things were muttered against him and Billy Blee in the
village. Virtuous indignation got hold upon the Chagford quidnuncs and with one consent they
declared Mr. Lyddon to blame. Where was his Christian charity--that charity which should begin
at home and so seldom does? This interest in others' affairs took shape on the night before
the Newtake sale. Then certain of the baser sort displayed their anger in a practical form,
and Mr. Blee was hustled one dark evening, had his hat knocked off, and suffered from a dead
cat thrown by unseen hands. The reason for this outrage also reached him. Then, chattering
with indignation and alarm, he hurried home and acquainted Mr. Lyddon with the wild spirit abroad.

As for Blanchard, he roamed moodily about the scene of his lost battle. In his pockets were
journals setting forth the innumerable advantages of certain foreign regions that other men
desired to people for their private ends. But Will was undecided, because all the prospects
presented appeared to lead directly to fortune.

The day of the sale dawned fine and at the appointed hour a thin stream of market carts and
foot passengers wound towards Newtake from the village beneath and from a few outlying farms.
Blanchard had gone up the adjacent hill; and lying there, not far distant from the granite
cross, he reclined with his dog and watched the people. Him they did not see; but them he counted
and found some sixty souls had been attracted by his advertisement. Men laughed and joked,
and smoked; women shrugged their shoulders, peeped about and disparaged the goods. Here and
there a purchaser took up his station beside a coveted lot. Some noticed that none of those
most involved were present; others spread a rumour that Miller Lyddon designed to stop the
sale at the last moment and buy in everything. But no such incident broke the course of proceedings.

Will, from his hiding-place in the heather, saw Mr. Bambridge drive up, noted the crowd follow
him about the farm, like black flies, and felt himself a man at his own funeral. The hour was
dark enough. In the ear of his mind he listened to the auctioneer's hammer, like a death-bell,
beating away all that he possessed. He had worked and slaved through long years for this,--for
the sympathy of Chagford, for the privilege of spending a thousand pounds, for barely enough
money to carry himself abroad. A few more figures dotted the white road and turned into the
open gate at Newtake. One shape, though too remote to recognise with certainty, put him in
mind of Martin Grimbal, another might have been Sam Bonus. He mused upon the two men, so dissimilar,
and his mind dwelt chiefly with the former. He found himself thinking how good it would be
if Martin proposed to Chris again; that the antiquary had done so was the last idea in his
thoughts.

Presently a brown figure crept through Newtake gate, hesitated a while, then began to climb
the hill and approach Blanchard. Ship recognised it before Will's eyes enabled him to do so,
and the dog rose from a long rest, stretched, sniffed the air, then trotted off to the approaching
newcomer.

It was Ted Chown; and in five minutes he reached his master with a letter. "'Tis from Miller
Lyddon," he said. "It comed by the auctioneer. I thought you was up here."

Blanchard took it without thanks, waited until the labourer had departed, then opened the letter
with some slight curiosity.

He read a page of scriptural quotations and admonitions, then tore the communication in half
with a curse and flung it from him. But presently his anger waned; he rose, picked up his father-in-law's
note, and plodded through it to the end.

His first emotion was one of profound thanksgiving that he had done so. Here, at the very end
of the letter, was the practical significance of it.

"Powder fust, jam arter, by God!" cried Will aloud. Then a burst of riotous delight overwhelmed
him. Once again in his darkest hour had Fortune turned the wheel. He shouted, put the letter
into his breast pocket, rose up and strode off to Chagford as fast as his legs would carry
him. He thought what his mother and wife would feel upon such news. Then he swore heartily--swore
down blessings innumerable on Miller Lyddon, whistled to his dog, and so journeyed on.

The master of Monks Barton had reproved Will through long pages, cited Scripture at him, displayed
his errors in a grim procession, then praised him for his prompt and manly conduct under the
present catastrophe, declared that his character had much developed of recent years, and concluded
by offering him five-and-thirty shillings a week at Monks Barton, with the only stipulation
that himself, his wife, and the children should dwell at the farm.

Praise, of which he had received little enough for many years, was pure honey to Will. From
the extremity of gloom and from a dark and settled enmity towards Mr. Lyddon, he passed quicker
than thought to an opposite condition of mind.

"'Tis a fairy story--awnly true!" he said to himself as he swept along.

Will came near choking when he thought of the miller. Here was a man that believed in him!
Newtake tumbled clean out of his mind before this revelation of Mr. Lyddon's trust and confidence.
He was full to the brainpan with Monks Barton. The name rang in his ears. Before he reached
Chagford he had planned innumerable schemes for developing the valley farm, for improving,
saving, increasing possibilities in a hundred directions. He pictured himself putting money
into the miller's pocket. He determined to bring that about if he had to work four-and-twenty
hours a day to do it. He almost wished some profound peril would threaten his father-in-law,
that he, at the cost of half his life, if need be, might rescue him and so pay a little of
this great debt. Ship, taking the cue from his master, as a dog will, leapt and barked before
him. In the valley below, Phoebe wept on Mrs. Blanchard's bosom, and Chris said hard things
of those in authority at Monks Barton; up aloft at Newtake, shillings rather than pounds changed
hands and many a poor lot found no purchaser.

Passing by a gate beneath the great hill of Middledown, Will saw two sportsmen with a keeper
and a brace of terriers, emerge from the wild land above. They were come from rabbit shooting,
as the attendant's heavy bag testified. They faced him as he passed, and, recognising John
Grimbal, Will did not look at his companion. At rest with the world just then, happy and contented
to a degree he had not reached for years, the young farmer was in such amiable mood that he
had given the devil "good day" on slightest provocation. Now he was carried out of himself,
and spoke upon a joyous inclination of the moment.

"Marnin' to 'e, Jan Grimbal! Glad to hear tell as your greyhound winned the cup down to Newton
coursing."

The other was surprised into a sort of grunt; then, as Will moved rapidly out of earshot, Grimbal's
companion addressed him. It was Major Tremayne; and now the soldier regarded Blanchard's vanishing
figure with evident amazement, then spoke.

"By Jove! Tom Newcombe, by all that's wonderful," he said.

CHAPTER VI

THE SECRET OUT

NOW many different persons in various places were simultaneously concerned with Will Blanchard
and his affairs.

At Newtake, Martin Grimbal was quietly buying a few lots--and those worth the most money. He
designed these as a gift for Phoebe; and his object was not wholly disinterested. The antiquary
could by no means bring himself to accept his last dismissal from Chris. Seeing the vague nature
of those terms in which she had couched her refusal, and remembering her frank admission that
she could love him, he still hoped. All his soul was wrapped up in the winning of Chris, and
her face came between him and the proof-sheets of his book; the first thoughts of his wakening
mind turned to the same problem; the last reflections of a brain sinking to rest were likewise
occupied with it. How could he win her? Sometimes his yearning desires clamoured for any possible
road to the precious goal, and he remembered his brother's hint that a secret existed in Will's
life. At such times he wished that he knew it, and wondered vaguely if the knowledge were of
a nature to further his own ambition. Then he blushed and thought ill of himself But this personal
accusation was unjust, for it is the property of a strong intellect engaged about affairs of
supreme importance, to suggest every possible action and present every possible point of view
by the mere mechanical processes of thinking. The larger a brain, the more alternative courses
are offered, the more facets gleam with thought, the more numerous the roads submitted to judgment.
It is a question of intellect, not ethics. Right actions and crooked are alike remorselessly
presented, and the Council of Perfection, which holds that to think amiss is sin, must convict
every saint of unnumbered offences. As reasonably might we blame him who dreams murder. Departure
from rectitude can only begin where evil thought is converted into evil action, for thought
alone of all man's possessions and antecedents is free, and a lifetime of self-control and
high thinking will not shut the door against ideas. That Martin--a man of luminous if limited
intellect--should have considered every possible line of action which might assist him to come
at the highest good life could offer was inevitable; but he missed the reason of certain sinister
notions and accused himself of baseness in giving birth to them. Nevertheless, the idea recurred
and took shape. He associated John's assertion of a secret with another rumour that had spread
much farther afield. This concerned the parentage of little Timothy the foundling, for it was
whispered widely of late that the child belonged to Blanchard. Of course many people knew all
the facts, were delighted to retail them, and could give the mother's name. Only those most
vitally concerned had heard nothing as yet.

These various matters were weighing not lightly on Martin's mind during the hours of the Newtake
sale; and meantime Will thundered into his mother's cottage and roared the news. He would hear
of no objection to his wish, that one and all should straightway proceed to Monks Barton, and
he poured forth the miller's praises, while Phoebe was reduced to tears by perusal of her father's
letter to Will.

"Thank Heaven the mystery's read now, an' us can see how Miller had his eyes 'pon 'e both all
along an' just waited for the critical stroke," said Mrs. Blanchard. "Sure I've knawed him
these many years an' never could onderstand his hard way in this; but now all's clear."

"He might have saved us a world of trouble and a sea o' tears if he'd awnly spoken sooner,
whether or no," murmured Chris, but Will would tolerate no unfriendly criticism.

"He'm a gert man, wi' his awn way o' doin' things, like all gert men," he burst out; "an' ban't
for any man to call un in question. He knawed the hard stuff I was made of and let me bide
accordin'. An' now get your bonnets on, the lot of 'e, for I'm gwaine this instant moment to
Monks Barton."

They followed him in a breathless procession, as he hurried across the farmyard.

"Rap to the door quick, dear heart," said Phoebe, "or I'll be cryin' again."

"No more rappin' after thicky butivul letter," answered Will. "Us'll gaw straight in."

"You walk fust, Phoebe--'tis right you should," declared Mrs. Blanchard. "Then Will can follow
'e; an' me an' Chris--us'll walk 'bout for a bit, till you beckons from window."

"Cheer up, Phoebe," cried Will. "Trouble's blawed awver for gude an' all now by the look of
it. 'Tis plain sailing hencefarrard, thank God, that is, if a pair o' strong arms, working
morning an' night for Miller, can bring it about."

So they went together, where Mr. Lyddon waited nervously within; and Damaris and Chris walked
beside the river.

Upon his island sat the anchorite Muscovy duck as of yore. He was getting old. He still lived
apart and thought deeply about affairs; but his conclusions he never divulged.

Yet another had been surprised into unutterable excitement during that afternoon. John Grimbal
found the fruit of long desire tumble into his hand at last, as Major Tremayne made his announcement.
The officer was spending a fortnight at the Red House, for his previous friendship with John
Grimbal had ripened.

"By Jove! Tom Newcombe, by all that's wonderful!" he exclaimed, as Will swung past him down
the hill to happiness.

"That's not his name. It's Blanchard. He's a young fool of a farmer, and Lord knows what he's
got to be so cock-a-hoop about. Up the hill they're selling every stick he's got at auction.
He's ruined."

"He might be ruined, indeed, if I liked. 'Tom Newcombe' he called himself when he was with us."

"A soldier!"

"He certainly was, and my servant; about the most decent, straightforward, childlike chap that
ever I saw."

"God!"

"You're surprised. But it's a fact. That's Newcombe all right. You couldn't forget a face and
a laugh like his. The handsomest man I've ever seen, bar none. He borrowed a suit of my clothes,
the beggar, when he vanished. But a week later I had the things back with a letter. He trusted
me that far. I tried to trace him, of course, but was not sorry I failed."

"A letter!"

"Yes, giving a reason for his desertion. Some chap was running after his girl and had got her
in a corner and bullied her into saying 'Yes,' though she hated the sight of him. I'd have
done anything for Tom. But he took the law into his own hands. He disappeared--we were at Shorncliffe
then if I remember rightly. The chap had joined to get abroad, and he told me all his harum-scarum
ambitions once. I hope the poor devil was in time to rescue his sweetheart, anyway."

"Yes, he was in time for that."

"I'm glad."

"Should you see him again, Tremayne, I would advise your pretending not to know him. Unless,
of course, you consider it your duty to proclaim him."

"Bless your life, I don't know him from Adam," declared the Major. "I'm not going to move after
all these years. I wish he'd come back to me again, all the same. A good servant."

"Poor brute! What's the procedure with a deserter? Do you send soldiers for him or the police?"

"A pair of handcuffs and the local bobby, that's all. Then the man's handed over to the military
authorities and court-martialled."

"What would he get?"

"Depends on circumstances and character. Tom might probably have six months, as he didn't give
himself up. I should have thought, knowing the manner of man, that he would have done his business,
married the girl, then come back and surrendered. In that case, being peace time, he would
only have forfeited his service, which didn't amount to much."

So John Grimbal learned the secret of his enemy at last; but, to pursue a former simile, the
fruit had remained so long out of reach that now it was not only overripe, but rotten. There
began a painful resuscitation of desires towards revenge--desires long moribund. To flog into
life a passion near dead of inanition was Grimbal's disgusting task. For days and nights the
thing was as Frankenstein's creation of grisly shreds and patches; then it moved spasmodically,--or
he fancied that it moved.

He fooled himself with reiterated assurances that he was glorying in the discovery; he told
himself that he was not made of the human stuff that can forgive bitter wrongs or forget them
until cancelled. He painted in lurid colours his past griefs; through a ghastly morass of revenge
grown stale, of memories deadened by time, he tried to struggle back to his original starting-point
in vanished years, and feel as he felt when he flung Will Blanchard over Rushford Bridge.

Once he wished to God the truth had never reached him; then he urged himself to use it instantly
and plague his mind no more. A mental exhaustion and nausea overtook him. Upon the night of
his discovery he retired to sleep wishing that Blanchard would be as good as his rumoured word
and get out of England. But this thought took a shape of reality in the tattered medley of
dreams, and Grimbal, waking, leapt on to the floor in frantic fear that his enemy had escaped him.

As yet he knew nothing of Will's good fortune, and when it came to his ears it unexpectedly
failed to reawaken resentment or strengthen his animosity. For, as he retraced the story of
the past years, it was with him as with a man reading the narrative of another's wrongs. He
could not yet absorb himself anew in the strife; he could not revive the personal element.

Sometimes he looked at himself in the glass as he shaved; and the sight of the grey hair thickening
on the sides of his head, the spectacle of the deep lines upon his forehead and the stamp of
many a shadowy crow's-foot about his blue eyes--these indications served more than all his
thoughts to sting him into deeds and to rekindle an active malignancy.

CHAPTER VII

SMALL TIMOTHY

A year and more than a year passed by, during which time some pure sunshine brightened the
life of Blanchard. Chagford laughed at his sustained good fortune, declared him to have as
many lives as a cat, and secretly regretted its outspoken criticism of Miller Lyddon before
the event of his generosity. Life at Monks Barton was at least wholly happy for Will himself.
No whisper or rumour of renewed tribulation reached his ear; early and late he worked, with
whole-hearted energy; he differed from Mr. Blee as seldom as possible; he wearied the miller
with new designs, tremendous enterprises, particulars concerning novel machinery, and much
information relating to nitrates. Newtake had vanished out of his life, like an old coat put
off for the last time. He never mentioned the place and there was now but one farm in all Devon
for him.

Meantime a strange cloud increased above him, though as yet he had not discerned so much as
the shadow of it. This circumstance possessed no connection with John Grimbal. Time passed
and still he did not take action, though he continued to nurse his wrongs through winter, spring,
and summer, as a child nurses a sick animal. The matter tainted his life but did not dominate
it. His existence continued to be soured and discoloured, yet not entirely spoiled. Now a new
stone of stumbling lay ahead and Grimbal's interest had shifted a little.

Like the rest of Chagford he heard the rumour of little Timothy's parentage--a rumour that
grew as the resemblance ripened between Blanchard and the child. Interested by this thought
and its significance, he devoted some time to it; and then, upon an early October morning,
chance hurried the man into action. On the spur of an opportunity he played the coward, as
many another man has done, only to mourn his weakness too late.

There came a misty autumn sunrise beside the river and Grimbal, hastening through the valley
of Teign, suddenly found himself face to face with Phoebe. She had been upon the meadows since
grey dawn, where many mushrooms set in silvery dew glimmered like pearls through the mist;
and now, with a full basket, she was returning to Monks Barton for breakfast. As she rested
for a moment at a stile between two fields, Grimbal loomed large from the foggy atmosphere
and stood beside her. She moved her basket for him to pass and her pulses quickened but slightly,
for she had met him on numerous occasions during past years and they were now as strangers.
To Phoebe he had long been nothing, and any slight emotion he might awaken was in the nature
of resentment that the man could still harden his heart against her husband and remain thus
stubborn and obdurate after such lapse of time. When, therefore, John Grimbal, moved thereto
by some sudden prompting, addressed Will's wife, she started in astonishment and a blush of
warm blood leapt to her face. He himself was surprised at his own voice; for it sounded unfamiliar,
as though some intelligent thing had suddenly possessed him and was using his vocal organs
for its own ends.

"Don't move. Why, 't is a year since we met alone, I think. So you are back at Monks Barton.
Does it bring thoughts? Is it all sweet? By your face I should judge not."

She stared and her mouth trembled, but she did not answer.

"You needn't tell me you're happy," he continued, with hurried words. "Nobody is, for that
matter. But you might have been. Looking at your ruined life and my own, I can find it in my
heart to be sorry for us both."

"Who dares to say my life is ruined?" she flashed out. "D' you think I would change Will for
the noblest in the land? He is the noblest. I want no pity--least of all yourn. I've been a
very lucky woman--and--everybody knaws it whatever they may say here an' theer."

She was strong before him now; her temper appeared in her voice and she took her basket and
rose to leave him.

"Wait one moment. Chance threw us here, and I'll never speak to you again if you resent it.
But, meeting you like this, something seemed to tell me to say a word and let you know. I'm
sorry you are so wretched--honestly."

"I ban't wretched! Never was a happier wife."

"Never was a better one, I know; but happy? Think. I was fond of you once and I can read between
the lines--the little thin lines on your forehead. They are newcomers. I'm not deceived. Nor
is it hidden. That the man has proved faithless is common knowledge now. Facts are hard things
and you've got the fact under your eyes. The child's his living image."

"Who told you, and how dare you foul my ears and thoughts with such lies?" she asked, her bosom
heaving. "You'm a coward, as you always was, but never more a coward than this minute."

"D' you pretend that nobody has told you this? Aren't your own eyes bright enough to see it?"

The man was in a pitiful mood, and now he grew hot and forgot himself wholly before her stinging
contempt. She did not reply to his question and he continued,--

"Your silence is an answer. You know well enough. Who's the mother? Perhaps you know that,
too. Is she more to him than you are?"

Phoebe made a great effort to keep herself from screaming. Then she moved hastily away, but
Grimbal stopped her and dared her to proceed.

"Wait. I'll have this out. Why don't you face him with it and make him tell you the truth?
Any plucky woman would. The scandal grows into a disgrace and your father's a fool to stand
it. You can tell him so from me."

"Mind your awn business an' let me pass, you hulking, gert, venomous wretch!" she cried. Then
a blackguard inspiration came to the man, and, suffering under a growing irritation with himself
as much as with Phoebe, he conceived an idea by which his secret might after all be made a
bitter weapon. He assured himself, even while he hated the sight of her, that justice to Phoebe
must be done. She had dwelt in ignorance long enough. He determined to tell her that she was
the wife of a deserter. The end gained was the real idea in his mind, though he tried to delude
himself. The sudden idea that he might inform Blanchard through Phoebe of his knowledge really
actuated him.

"You may turn your head away as if I was dirt, you little fool, and you may call me what names
you please; but I'm raising this question for your good, not my own. What do I care? Only it's
a man's part to step in when he sees a woman being trampled on."

"A man!" she said. "You'm not in our lives any more, an' we doan't want 'e in 'em. More like
to a meddlin' auld woman than a man, if you ax me."

"You can say that? Then we'll put you out of the question. I, at least, shall do my duty."

"Is it part of your duty to bully me here alone? Why doan't 'e faace the man, like a man, 'stead
of blusterin' to me 'bout it? Out on you! Let me pass, I tell 'e."

"Doan't make that noise. Just listen and stand still. I'm in earnest. It pleases me to know
the true history of this child, and I mean to. As a Justice of the Peace I mean to."

"Ax Will Blanchard then an' let him answer. Maybe you'll be sorry you spoke arter."

"You can tell him I want to see him; you can say I order him to come to the Red House between
eight and nine next Monday."

"Be you a fule? Who's he, to come at your bidding?"

"He's a--well, no matter. You've got enough to trouble you. But I think he will come. Tell
him that I know where he was during the autumn and winter of the year that I returned home
from Africa. Tell him I know where he came from to marry you. Tell him the grey suit of clothes
reached the owner safely--remember, the grey suit of clothes. That will refresh his memory.
Then I think he will come fast enough and let me have the truth concerning this brat. If he
refuses, I shall take steps to see justice done."

"I lay he's never put himself in the power of a black-hearted, cruel beast like you," blazed
out the woman, furious and frightened at once.

"Has he not? Ask him. You don't know where he was during those months? I thought you didn't.
I do. Perhaps this child--perhaps the other woman's the married one--"

Phoebe dropped her basket and her face grew very pale before the horrors thus coarsely spread
before her. She staggered and felt sick at the man's last speech. Then, with one great sob
of breath, she turned her back on him, nerved herself to use her shaking legs, and set off
at her best speed, as one running from some dangerous beast of the field.

Grimbal made no attempt to follow, but watched her fade into the mist, then turned and pursued
his way through the dripping woodlands. Sunrise fires gleamed along the upper layers of the
fading vapours and gilded autumn's handiwork. Ripe seeds fell tapping through the gold of the
horse-chestnuts, and many acorns also pattered down upon a growing carpet of leaves. Webs and
gossamers twinkled in the sunlight, and the flaming foliage made a pageant of colour through
waning mists where red leaves and yellow fell at every breath along the thinning woods. Beneath
trees and hedgerows the ripe mosses gleamed, and coral and amber fungi, with amanita and other
hooded folk. In companies and clusters they sprang or arose misshapen, sinister, and alone.
Some were orange and orange-tawny; others white and purple; not a few peered forth livid, blotched,
and speckled, as with venom spattered from some reptile's jaws. On the wreck of the year they
flourished, sucked strange life from rotten stick and hollow tree, opened gills on lofty branch
and bough, shone in the green grass rings of the meadows, thrust cup and cowl from the concourse
of the dead leaves in ditches, clustered like the uprising roof-trees of a fairy village in
dingle and in dene.

At the edge of the woods John Grimbal stood, and the hour was very dark for him and he cursed
at the loss of his manhood. His heart turned to gall before the thought of the thing he had
done, as he blankly marvelled what unsuspected base instinct had thus disgraced him. He had
plumbed a possibility unknown within his own character, and before his shattered self-respect
he stood half passionate, half amazed. Chance had thus wrecked him; an impulse had altered
the whole face of the problem; and he gritted his teeth as he thought of Blanchard's feelings
when Phoebe should tell her story. As for her, she at least had respected him during the past
years; but what must henceforth be her estimate of him? He heaped bitter contempt upon himself
for this brutality to a woman; he raged, as he pursued long chains of consequences begot of
this single lapse of self-control. His eye was cleared from passion; he saw the base nature
of his action and judged himself as others would judge him. This spectacle produced a definite
mental issue and aroused long-stagnant emotions from their troubled slumbers. He discovered
that a frank hatred of Will Blanchard awoke and lived. He told himself this man was to blame
for all, and not content with poisoning his life, now ravaged his soul also and blighted every
outlook of his being. Like a speck upon an eyeball, which blots the survey of the whole eye,
so this wretch had fastened upon him, ruined his ambitions, wrecked his life, and now dragged
his honour and his very manhood into the dust. John Grimbal found himself near choked by a
raging fit of passion at last. He burnt into sheer frenzy against Blanchard; and the fuel of
the fire was the consciousness of his own craven performance of that morning. Flying from self-contemplation,
he sought distraction and even oblivion at any source where his mind could win it; and now
he laid all blame on his enemy and suffered the passion of his own shame and remorse to rise,
as it had been a red mist, against this man who was playing havoc with his body and soul. He
trembled under the loneliness of the woods in a debauch of mere brute rage that exhausted him
and left a mark on the rest of his life. Even his present powers appeared trifling and their
exercise a deed unsatisfying before this frenzy. What happiness could be achieved by flinging
Blanchard into prison for a few months at most? What salve could be won from thought of this
man's disgrace and social ruin? The spectacle sank into pettiness now. His blood was surging
through his veins and crying for action. Primitive passion gripped him and craved primitive
outlet. At that hour, in his own deepest degradation, the man came near madness, and every
savage voice in him shouted for blood and blows and batterings in the flesh.

Phoebe Blauchard hastened home, meanwhile, and kept her own counsel upon the subject of the
dawn's sensational incidents. Her first instinct was to tell her husband everything at the
earliest opportunity, but Will had departed to his work before she reached the farm, and on
second thoughts she hesitated to speak or give John Grimbal's message. She feared to precipitate
the inevitable. In her own heart what mystery revolved about Will's past performances undoubtedly
embraced the child fashioned in his likeness; and though she had long fought against the rumour
and deceived herself by pretending to believe Chris, whose opinion differed from that of most
people, yet at her heart she felt truth must lie hidden somewhere in the tangle. Will and Mr.
Lyddon alone knew nothing of the report, and Phoebe hesitated to break it to her husband. He
was happy--perhaps in the consciousness that nobody realised the truth; and yet at his very
gates a bitter foe guessed at part of his secret and knew the rest. Still Phoebe could not
bring herself to speak immediately. A day of mental stress and strain ended, and she retired
and lay beside Will very sad. Under darkness of night the threats of the enemy grew into an
imminent disaster of terrific dimensions, and with haunting fear she finally slept, to waken
in a nightmare.

Will, wholly ignorant of the facts, soothed Phoebe's alarm and calmed her as she clung to him
in hysterical tears.

"No ill shall come to 'e while I live," she sobbed: "not if all the airth speaks evil of 'e.
I'll cleave to 'e, and fight for 'e, an' be a gude wife, tu,--a better wife than you've been
husband."

"Bide easy, an' doan't cry no more. My arm's round 'e, dearie. Theer, give awver, do! You've
been dreamin' ugly along o' the poor supper you made, I reckon. Doan't 'e think nobody's hand
against me now, for ban't so. Folks begin to see the manner of man I am; an' Miller knaws,
which is all I care about. He've got a strong right arm workin' for him an' a tidy set o' brains,
though I sez it; an' you might have a worse husband, tu, Phoebe; but theer--shut your purty
eyes--I knaw they 'm awpen still, for I can hear your lashes against the sheet. An' doan't
'e go out in the early dews mushrooming no more, for 't is cold work, an' you've got to be
strong these next months."

She thought for a moment of telling him boldly concerning the legend spreading on every side;
but, like others less near and dear to him, she feared to do so.

Knowing Will Blanchard, not a man among the backbiters had cared to risk a broken head by hinting
openly at the startling likeness between the child and himself; and Phoebe felt her own courage
unequal to the task just then. She racked her brains with his dangers long after he was himself
asleep, and finally she determined to seek Chris next morning and hear her opinion before taking
any definite step.

On the same night another pair of eyes were open, and trouble of a sort only less deep than
that of the wife kept her father awake. Billy had taken an opportunity to tell his master of
the general report and spread before him the facts as he knew them.

The younger members of the household had retired early, and when Miller Lyddon took the cards
from the mantelpiece and made ready for their customary game, Mr. Blee shook his head and refused
to play.

"Got no heart for cards to-night," he said.

"What's amiss, then? Thank God I've heard little to call ill news for a month or two. Not but
what I've fancied a shadow on my gal's face more'n wance."

"If not on hers, wheer should 'e see it?" asked Mr. Blee eagerly." I've seed it, tu, an' for
that matter theer's sour looks an' sighs elsewheer. People ban't blind, worse luck. 'Tis grawed
to be common talk, an' I've fired myself to tell you, 'cause 'tis fitting an' right, an' it
might come more grievous from less careful lips."

"Go on then; an' doan't rack me longer'n you can help. Use few words."

"Many words must go to it, I reckon. 'Tis well knawn I unfolds a bit o' news like the flower
of the field--gradual and sure. You might have noticed that love-cheel by the name of Timothy
'bout the plaace? Him as be just of age to harry the ducks an' such-like."

"A nice li'l bwoy, tu, an' fond of me; an' you caan't say he'm a love-cheel, knawin' nothin'
'bout him."

"Love-cheel or changeling, 'tis all wan. Have'e ever thought 'twas coorious the way Blanchard
comed by un?"

"Certainly 'twas--terrible coorious."

"You never doubted it?"

"Why for should I? Will's truthful as light, whatever else he may be."

"You believe as he went 'pon the Moor an' found that bwoy in a roundy-poundy under the gloamin'?"

"Ess, I do."

"Have'e ever looked at the laddie close?"

"Oftentimes--so like Will as two peas."

"Theer 'tis! The picter of Will! How do'e read that?"

"Never tried to. An accident, no more."

"A damn queer accident, if you ax me. Burnish it all! You doan't see yet, such a genius of
a man as you tu! Why, Will Blanchard's the faither of the li'l twoad! You've awnly got to know
the laws of nature an' such-like to swear to it. The way he walks an' holds his head, his curls,
his fashion of lording it awver the birds an' beasts, the sudden laugh of un--he's Will's son,
for a thousand pound, an' his mother's alive, like as not."

"No mother would have gived up a child that way."

"'Zactly so! Onless she gived it to the faither!" said Billy triumphantly.

Mr. Lyddon reflected and showed an evident disposition to scoff at the whole story.

"'Tis stuff an' rubbish!" he said. "You might as well find a mare's nest t'other side an' say
'twas Will's sister's child. 'Tis almost so like her as him, an' got her brown eyes in the
bargain."

"God forbid!" answered Billy, in horror. "That's flat libel, an' I'd be the last to voice any
such thing for money. If a man gets a cheel wrong side the blanket 'tis just a passing sarcumstance,
an' not to be took too serious. Half-a-crown a week is its awn punishment like. But if a gal
do, 'tis destruction to the end of the chapter, an' shame everlasting in the world to come,
by all accounts. You didn't ought to think o' such things, Miller,--takin' a pure, gude maiden's
carater like that. Surprised at 'e!"

"'Tis just as mad a thought wan way as t'other, and if you'm surprised so be I. To be a tale-bearer
at your time o' life!"

"That gormed Blanchard's bewitched 'e from fust to last!" burst out Billy. "If a angel from
heaven comed down-long and tawld 'e the truth 'bout un, you wouldn't b'lieve. God stiffen it!
You make me mad! You'd stand 'pon your head an' waggle your auld legs in the air for un if
he axed 'e."

"I'll speak to him straight an' take his word for it. If it's true, he 'm wickedly to blame,
I knaw that."

"I was thinkin' of your darter. 'Tis black thoughts have kept her waking since this reached
her ears."

"Did you tell her what people were sayin'? I warrant you did!"

"You'm wrong then. No such thing. I may have just heaved a sigh when I seed the bwoy playin'
in front of her, an' looked at Blanchard, an' shook my head, or some such gentle hint as that.
But no more."

"Well, I doan't believe a word of it; an' I'll tell you this for your bettering,--'tis poor
religion in you, Blee, to root into other people's troubles, like a pig in a trough; an' auld
though you be, you 'm not tu auld to mind what it felt like when the blood was hot an' quick
to race at the sight of a maid."

"I practice same as I preach, whether or no," said Billy stoutly, "an' I can't lay claim to
creating nothing lawful or unlawful in my Maker's image. 'Tis something to say that, in these
godless days. I've allus kept my foot on the world, the flesh, an' the Devil so tight as the
best Christian in company; an' if that ban't a record for a stone, p'raps you'll tell me a
better. Your two-edged tongue do make me feel sometimes as though I did ought to go right away
from 'e, though God knaws--God, He knaws--"

Billy hid his face and began to weep, while Mr. Lyddon watched the candle-light converge to
a shining point upon his bald skull.

"Doan't go against a word in season, my dear sawl. 'Tis our duty to set each other right. That's
what we'm put here for, I doubt. Many's the time you've given me gude advice, an' I've thanked
'e an' took it."

Then he went for the spirits and mixed Mr. Blee a dose of more than usual strength.

"You'm the most biting user of language in Chagford, when you mind to speak sour," declared
Billy. "If I thought you meant all you said, I'd go an' hang myself in the barn this instant
moment. But you doan't."

He snuffled and dried his scanty tears on a red handkerchief, then cheered up and drank his liquor.

"It do take all sorts to make a world, an' a man must act accordin' as he'm built," continued
Mr. Lyddon. "Ban't no more use bein' angered wi' a chap given to women than 'tis bein' angered
wi' a fule, because he's a fule. What do 'e expect from a fule but folly, or a crab tree but
useless fruit, or hot blood but the ways of it? This ban't to speak of Will Blanchard, though.
'Pon him we'll say no more till he've heard what's on folks' tongues. A maddening bwoy--I'll
allow you that--an' he've took a year or two off my life wan time an' another. 'Pears I ban't
never to graw to love un as I would; an' yet I caan't quite help it when I sees his whole-hearted
ferment to put money into my pocket; or when I hears him talk of nitrates an' the ways o' the
world; or watches un playin' make-believe wi' the childer--himself the biggest cheel as ever
laughed at fulishness or wanted spankin' an' putting in the corner."

CHAPTER VIII

FLIGHT

On the following morning Miller Lyddon arose late, looked from his window and immediately observed
the twain with whom his night thoughts had been concerned. Will stood at the gate smoking;
small Timothy, and another lad, of slightly riper years, appeared close by. The children were
fighting tooth and nail upon the ownership of a frog, and this reptile itself, fastened by
the leg to a stick, listlessly watched the progress of the battle. Will likewise surveyed the
scene with genial attention, and encouraged the particular little angry animal who had most
claim upon his interest. Timothy kicked and struck out pretty straight, but fought in silence;
the bigger boy screamed and howled and scratched.

"Vang into un, man, an' knock his ugly head off!" said Will encouragingly, and the babe to
whom he spoke made renewed efforts as both combatants tumbled into the road, the devil in their
little bright eyes, each puny muscle straining. Tim had his foe by the hair, and the elder
was trying to bite his enemy's leg, when Martin Grimbal and Chris Blanchard approached from
Rushford Bridge. They had met by chance, and Chris was coming to the farm while the antiquary
had business elsewhere. Now a scuffle in a cloud of dust arrested them and the woman, uninfluenced
by considerations of sportsmanship, pounced upon Timothy, dragged him from his operations,
and, turning to Will, spoke as Martin Grimbal had never heard her speak before.

"You, a grawed man, to stand theer an' see that gert wild beast of a bwoy tear this li'l wan
like a savage tiger! Look at his sclowed faace all streaming wi' blood! 'S truth! I'd like
to sarve you the same, an' I would for two pins! I'm ashamed of 'e!"

"He hit wi' his fistes like a gude un," said Will, grinning; "an' he'm made o' the right stuff,
I'll swear. Couldn't have done better if he was my awn son. I be gwaine to give un a braave
toy bimebye. You see t'other kid's faace come to-morrow!"

Martin Grimbal watched Chris fondle the gasping Timothy, clean his wounds, calm his panting
heart; then, as though a superhuman voice whispered in his ear, her secret stood solved, and
the truth of Timothy's parentage confronted him in a lightning flash of the soul. He looked
at Chris as a man might gaze upon a spectre; he stared at her and through her into her past;
he pieced each part of the puzzle to its kindred parts until all stood complete; he read "mother"
in her voice, in her caressing hands and gleaming eyes as surely as man reads morning in the
first light of dawn; and he marvelled that a thing so clear and naked had been left to his
discovery. The revelation shook him not a little, for he was familiar with the rumours concerning
Tim's paternity, and had been disposed to believe them; but from the moment of the new thought's
inception it gripped him, for he felt that the thing was true. As lamps, so ordered that the
light of each may fall on the fringe of darkness where its fellow fades, and thus complete
a chain of illumination, so the present discovery, duly considered, was but one point of truth
revealing others. It made clear much that had not been easy to understand, and the tremendous
fact rose in his mind as a link in such a perfect sequence of evidence that doubt actually
vanished before he had lost sight of Chris and passed dumfounded upon his way. Her lover's
sudden death, her own disappearance, the child's advent at Newtake, and the woman's subsequent
return--these main incidents connected a thousand others and explained what little mystery
still obscured the position. He pursued his road and marvelled as he went how a tragedy so
thinly veiled had thus escaped every eye. Within the story that Chris had told, this other
story might be intercalated without convicting her of any spoken falsehood. Now he guessed
at the reason why Timothy's mother had refused to marry him on his last proposal; then, thinking
of the child, he knew Tim's father.

So he stood before the truth; and it filled his heart with some agony and some light. Examining
his love in this revelation, he discovered strange things; and first, that it was love only
that had opened his eyes and enabled him to solve the secret at all. Nobody had made the discovery
but himself, and he, of all men the least likely to come at any concern others desired to hide
from him, had fathomed this great fact, had won it from the heart of unconscious Chris. His
love widened and deepened into profound pity as he thought of all that her secret and the preservation
of it must have meant; and tears dimmed his eyes as he pictured her life since her lover's passing.

To him the discovery hurt Chris so little that for a time he underrated the effect of it upon
other people. His affection rose clean above the unhappy fact, and it was some time before
he began to appreciate the spectacle of Chris under the world's eye with the truth no longer
hidden. Then a sense of his own helplessness overmastered him; he walked slowly, drew up at
a gate and stood motionless, leaning over it. So silent did he stand, and so long, that a stoat
hopped across the road within two yards of him.

He realised to the full that he was absolutely powerless. Chris alone must disperse the rumours
fastening on her brother if they were to be dispersed. He knew that she would not suffer any
great cloud of unjust censure to rest upon Will, and he saw what a bitter problem must be overwhelming
her. Nobody could help her and he, who knew, was as powerless as the rest. Then he asked himself
if that last conviction was true. He probed the secret places of his mind to find an idea;
he prayed for some chance spark or flash of genius to aid him before this trial; he mourned
his own simple brains, so weak to aid him in this vital pass. But of all living men the accidental
discovery was most safe with him. His heart went out to the secret mother, and he told himself
that he would guard her mystery like gold.

It was strange in a nature so timorous that not once did a suspicion he had erred overtake
him, and presently he wondered to observe how ancient this discovery of the motherhood of Chris
had grown within his mind. It appeared as venerable as his own love for her. He yearned for
power to aid; without conscious direction of his course he proceeded and strode along for hours.
Then he ate a meal of bread and cheese at an inn and tramped forward once more upon a winding
road towards the village of Zeal.

Through his uncertainty, athwart the deep perplexity of his mind, moved hope and a shadowed
joy. Within him arose again the vision of happiness once pictured and prayed for, once revived,
never quite banished to the grey limbo of ambitions beyond fulfilment. Now realities saddened
the thought of it and brought ambition within a new environment less splendid than the old.
But, despite clouds, hope shone fairly forth at last. So a planet, that the eye has followed
at twilight and then lost a while, beams anew at dawn after lapse of days, and wheels in wide
mazes upon some new background of the unchanging stars.

Elsewhere Mr. Lyddon braced himself to a painful duty, and had private speech with his son-in-law.
Like a thunderbolt the circling suspicions fell on Will, and for a moment smothered his customary
characteristics under sheer surprise.

The miller spoke nervously, and walked up and down with his eyes averted.

"Ban't no gert matter, I hope, an' I won't keep 'e from your work five minutes. You've awnly
got to say 'No,' an' theer's an end of it so far as I'm concerned. 'Tis this: have 'e noticed
heads close together now an' again when you passed by of late?"

"Not me. Tu much business on my hands, I assure 'e. Coourse theer's envious whisperings; allus
is when a man gets a high place, same as what I have, thanks to his awn gude sense an' the
wisdom of others as knaws what he's made of. But you trusted me wi' all your heart, an' you'll
never live to mourn it."

"I never want to. You'm grawing to be much to me by slow stages. Yet these here tales. This
child Timothy. Who's his faither, Will, an' who's his mother?"

"How the flaming hell should I knaw? I found him same as you finds a berry on a briar. That's
auld history, surely?"

"The child graws so 'mazing like you, that even dim eyes such as mine can see it."

A sudden flash of light came into Blanchard's face. Then the fire died as quickly as it had
been kindled, and he grew calm.

"God A'mighty!" he said, in a voice hushed and awed. "They think that! I lay that's why your
darter's cried o' nights, then, an' Chris have grawed sad an' wisht in her ways, an' mother
have pet the bwoy wan moment an' been short wi' un the next."

He remained marvellously quiet under this attack, but amazement chiefly marked his attitude.
Miller Lyddon, encouraged by this unexpected reasonableness, spoke again more sternly.

"The thing looks bad to a wife an' mother, an' 'tis my duty to ax 'e for a plain, straightforward
answer 'pon it. Human nature's got a ugly trick of repeatin' itself in this matter, as we all
knaws. But I'll say nought an' think nought till you answers me. Be the bwoy yourn or not?
Tell me true, with your hand on this."

He took his Bible from the mantelpiece, while Will, apparently cowed by the gravity of the
situation, placed both palms upon it, then fixed his eyes solemnly upon Mr. Lyddon.

"As God in heaven's my judge, he ban't no cheel of mine, and I knaw nothing about him--no,
nor yet his faither nor mother nor plaace of birth. I found un wheer I said, and if I've lied
by a fraction, may God choke me as I stand here afore you."

"An' I believe you to the bottom!" declared his father-in-law. "I believe you as I hopes to
be believed myself, when I stands afore the Open Books an' says I've tried to do my duty. You've
got me on your side, an' that's to say you'll have Phoebe an' your mother, tu, for certain."

Then Blanchard's mood changed, and there came a tremendous rebound from the tension of the
last few minutes. In the anti-climax following upon his oath, passion, chained a while by astonishment,
broke loose in a whirlwind.

"Let 'em believe or disbelieve, who cares?" he thundered out. "Not me--not a curse for you
or anybody, my awn blood or not my awn blood. To harbour lies against me! But women loves to
believe bad most times."

"Who said they believed it, Will? Doan't go mad, now 'tis awver and done."

"They did believe it; I knaw, I seed it in theer faaces, come to think of it. 'Tis the auld
song. I caan't do no right. Course I've got childer an' ruined maids in every parish of the
Moor! God damn theer lying, poisonous tongues, the lot of 'em! I'm sick of this rotten, lie-breeding
hole, an' of purty near every sawl in it but mother. She never would think against me. An'
me, so true to Phoebe as the honey-bee to his awn butt! I'll go--I'll get out of it--so help
me, I will--to a clean land, 'mongst clean-thinking folk, wheer men deal fair and judge a chap
by his works. For a thought I'd wring the neck of the blasted child, by God I would!"

"He've done no wrong."

"Nor me neither. I had no more hand in his getting than he had himself. Poor li'l brat; I'm
sorry I spoke harsh of him. He was give me--he was give me--an' I wish to God he was mine.
Anyways he shaa'n't come to no harm. I'll fight the lot of 'e for un, till he 's auld enough
to fight for hisself."

Then Will burst out of Monks Barton and vanished. He passed far from the confines of the farm,
roamed on to the high Moor, and nothing further was seen of him until the following day.

Those most concerned assembled after his departure and heard the result of the interview.

"Solemn as a minister he swore," explained Mr. Lyddon; "an' then, a'most before his hands was
off the Book, he burst out like a screeching, ravin' hurricane. I half felt the oath was vain
then, an' 't was his real nature bubblin' up like."

They discussed the matter, all save Chris, who sat apart, silent and abstracted. Presently
she rose and left them, and faced her own trouble single-handed, as she had similarly confronted
greater sorrows in the past.

She was fully determined to conceal her cherished secret still; yet not for the superficial
reason that had occurred to any mind. Vast mental alterations had transformed Chris Blanchard
since the death of Clement. Her family she scarcely considered now; no power of logic would
have convinced her that she had wronged them or darkened their fame. In the past, indeed, not
the least motive of her flight had centred in the fear of Will; but now she feared nobody,
and her own misfortune held no shadow of sin or shame for her, looking back upon it. Those
who would have denied themselves her society or friendship upon this knowledge it would have
given her no pang to lose. She could feel fiercely still, as she looked back to the birth of
her son and traced the long course of her sufferings; and she yet experienced occasional thrills
of satisfaction in her weaker moments, when she lowered the mask and reflected, not without
pride, on the strength and determination that had enabled her to keep her secret. But to reveal
the truth now was a prospect altogether hateful in the eyes of Chris, and she knew the reason.
More than once had she been upon the brink of disclosure, since recent unhappy suspicions had
darkened Phoebe's life; but she had postponed the necessary step again and again, at one thought.
Her fortitude, her apathy, her stoic indifference, broke down and left her all woman before
one necessity of confession; her heart stood still when she remembered that Martin Grimbal
must know and judge. His verdict she did, indeed, dread with all her soul, and his only; for
him she had grown to love, and the thought of his respect and regard was precious to her. Everybody
must know, everybody or nobody. For long she could conceive of no action clearing Will in the
eyes of the wider circle who would not be content to take his word, and yet leaving herself
uninvolved. Then the solution came. She would depart once more with the child. Such a flight
was implicit confession, and could not be misunderstood. Martin must, indeed, know, but she
would never see him after he knew. To face him after the truth had reached his ear seemed to
Chris a circumstance too terrible to dwell upon. Her action, of course, would proclaim the
parentage of Timothy, and free Will from further slanderings; while for herself, through tears
she saw the kind faces of the gypsy people and her life henceforth devoted to her little one.

To accentuate the significance of the act she determined to carry out her intention that same
day, and during the afternoon opportunity offered. Her son, playing alone in the farmyard,
came readily enough for a walk, and before three o'clock they had set out. The boy's face was
badly scratched from his morning battle, but pain had ceased, and his injuries only served
as an object of great interest to Timothy. Where water in ditch or puddle made a looking-glass
he would stop to survey himself.

A spectator, aware of certain facts, had viewed the progress of Chris with some slight interest.
Three ways were open to her, three main thoroughfares leading out of Chagford to places of
parallel or greater importance. Upon the Moor road Will wandered in deep perturbation; on that
to Okehampton walked another man, concerned with the same problem from a different aspect;
the third highway led to Moreton; and thither Chris might have proceeded unchallenged. But
a little public vehicle would be returning just then from the railway station. That the runaway
knew, and therefore selected another path.

In her pocket was all the money that she had; in her heart was a sort of alloyed sorrow. Two
thoughts shared her mind after she had decided upon a course of action. She wondered how quickly
Tim would learn to call her "mother," for that was the only sweet word life still held; yet
of the child's father she did not think, for her mind, without special act of volition, turned
and turned again to him upon whom the Indian summer of her love had descended.

CHAPTER IX

UNDER COSDON BEACON

Beneath a region where the "newtakes" straggle up Cosdon's eastern flank and mark a struggle
between man and the giant beacon, Chris Blanchard rested a while upon the grass by the highway.
Tim, wrapped in a shawl, slept soundly beside his mother, and she sat with her elbows on her
knees and one hand under her chin. It was already dusk; dark mist wreaths moved upon the Moor,
and oncoming night winds sighed of rain. Then a moment before her intended departure from this
most solitary spot she heard footsteps upon the road. Not interested to learn anything of the
passer-by, Chris remained with her eyes upon the ground, but the footsteps stopped suddenly
before her, whereupon she looked up and saw Martin Grimbal.

After a perambulation of twenty miles he had now set his face homewards, and thus the meeting
was accomplished. Utmost constraint at first marked the expression of both man and woman, and
it was left for Martin to break the silence, for Chris only started at seeing him, but said
nothing. Her mind, however, ranged actively upon the reason of Grimbal's sudden appearance,
and she did not at first believe it accidental.

"Why, my dear, what is this? You have wandered far afield!"

He addressed her in unnatural tones, for surprise and emotion sent his voice up into his head,
and it came thin and tremulous as a woman's. Even as he spoke Martin feared. From the knowledge
gleaned by him that morning he suspected the meaning of this action, and thought that Chris
was running away.

And she, at the same moment, divined that he guessed the truth in so far as the present position
was concerned. Still she did not speak, and he grew calmer and took her silence as an admission.

"You're going away from Chagford? Is it wise?"

"Ess, Martin, 'tis best so. You see this poor child be breedin' trouble, an' bringing bad talk
against Will. He ban't wanted--little Timothy--an' I ban't wanted overmuch, so it comed to
me I'd--I'd just slip away out of the turmoil an' taake Tim. Then--"

She stopped, for her heart was beating so fast that she could speak no more. She remembered
her own arguments in the recent past,--that this flight must tell all who cared to reflect
that the child was her own. Now she looked up at Martin to see if he had guessed it. But he
exhibited extreme self-control and she was reassured.

"Just like your thoughtful self to try and save others from sorrow. Where are you going to,
Chris? Don't tell me more than you please; but I may be useful to you on this, the first stage
of the journey."

"To Okehampton to-night. To-morrow--but I'd rather not say any more. I don't care so long as
you think I'm right."

"I haven't said that yet. But I'll go as far as Zeal with you. Then we'll get a covered cab
or something. We may reach the village before rain."

"No call for your coming. 'Tis awnly a short mile."

"But I must. I'll carry the laddie. Poor little man! Hard to be the cause of such a bother."

He picked Timothy up so gently that the child did not wake.

"Now," he said, "come along. You must be tired already."

"How gude you be!" she said wearily. "I'm glad you doan't scold or fall into a rage wi' me,
for I knaw I'm right. The bwoy's better away, and I'm small use to any now. But I can be busy
with this little wan. I might do worse than give up my life to un--eh, Martin?"

Then some power put words in his mouth. He trembled when he had spoken them, but he would not
have recalled them.

"You couldn't do better. It's a duty staring you in the face."

She started violently, and her dark skin flamed under the night.

"Why d'you say that?" she asked, with loud, harsh voice, and stopping still as she did so.
"Why d'you say 'duty'?"

He, too, stood and looked at her.

"My dear," he answered, "love's a quick, subtle thing. It can make even such a man as I am
less stupid than Nature built him. It fires dull brains; it adds sight to dim eyes; it shows
the bookworm how to find out secrets hidden from keener spirits; it lifts a veil from the loved
one and lets the lover see more than anybody else can. Be patient with me. I spoke because
I love you still with all my heart and soul, Chris; I spoke, because what I feel for you is
lifelong, and cannot change. Had I not still worshipped the earth under your feet I would have
died rather than tell you. But love makes me bold. I have watched you so long and prayed for
you so often. I have seen little differences in you that nobody else saw. And to-day I know.
I knew when you picked up Timothy and flew at Will. Since then I've wandered Heaven can tell
where, just thinking and thinking and wondering and seeing no way. And all the time God meant
me to come and find you and tell you."

She understood; she gave one bitter cry that started an echo from ruined mine-workings hard
at hand; then she turned from him, and, in a moment of sheer hopeless misery, flung herself
and her wrecked ambitions upon the ground by the wayside.

For a moment the man stood scared by this desperate answer to his words. Then he put his burden
down, approached Chris, knelt beside her, and tried to raise her. She sat up at last with panting
breast and eyes in which some terror sat.

"You!" she said. "You to knaw! Wasn't my cup full enough before but that my wan hope should
be cut away, tu? My God, I 'mauld in sorrow now--very auld. But 't is awver at last. You knaw,
an' I had to hear it from your awn lips! Theer 's nought worse in the world for me now."

Her hands were pressed against her bosom, and as he unconsciously moved a little towards her
she shrank backwards, then rose to her feet. Timothy woke and cried, upon which she turned
to him and picked him up.

"Go!" she cried suddenly. "If ever you loved me, get out of my sight now, or you'll make me
want to kill myself again."

He saw the time was come for strong self-assertion, and spoke.

"Listen!" he said. "You don't understand, but you must. I'm the only man in the world who knows--the
only one, and I've told you because it was stamped into my brain to tell you, and because I
love you perhaps better than one creature has any right to love another."

"You knaw. Isn't it enough? Who else did I care for? Who else mattered to me? Mother or brother
or other folk? I pray you to go an' leave me. God knaws how hard it was to hide it, but I hugged
it an' suffered more 'n any but a mother could fathom 'cause things weer as they weer. Then
came this trouble, an' still none seed. But 't was meant you should, an' the rest doan't matter.
I'd so soon go back now as not."

"So you shall," he answered calmly; "only hear this first. Last time I spoke about what was
in my heart, Chris, you told me you could love me, but that you would not marry me, and I said
I would never ask you again. I shall keep my word, sweetheart. I shall not ask; I shall take
without asking. You love me; that is all I care for. The little boy came between last time;
now nothing does."

He took the woman in his arms and kissed her, but the next moment he was flying to where water
lay in a ditch, for his unexpected attitude had overpowered Chris. She raised her hands to
his shoulders, uttered a faint cry, then slipped heavily out of his arms in a faint. The man
rushed this way and that, the child sat and howled noisily, the woman remained long unconscious,
and heavy rain began to fall out of the darkness; yet, to his dying day that desolate spot
of earth brought light to Martin's eyes as often as he passed it.

Chris presently recovered her senses, and spoke words that made her lover's heart leap. She
uttered them in a sad, low voice, but her hand was in his, pressing it close the while.

"Awften an' awften I've axed the A'mighty to give me wan little glint o' knawledge as how 'twould
all end. If I'd knawed! But I never guessed how big your sawl was, Martin. I never thought
you was the manner of man to love a woman arter that."

"God knows what's in my heart, Chris."

"I'll tell 'e everything some day. Lookin' back it doan't 'pear no ways wicked, though it may
seem so in cold daylight to cold hearts."

"Come, come with me, for the rain grows harder. I know where I can hire a covered carriage
at an inn. 'Tis only five minutes farther on, and poor Tim's unhappy."

"He'm hungry. You won't be hard 'pon my li'l bwoy if I come to 'e, Martin?"

"You know as well as I can tell you. There's one other thing. About Chagford, Chris? Are you
afraid of it? I'll turn my back on it if you like. I'll take you to Okehampton now if you would
rather go there."

"Never! 'Tis for you to care, not me. So you knaw an' forgive--what's the rest? Shadows. But
let me hold your hand an' keep my tongue still. I'm sick an' fainty wi' this gert turn o' the
wheel. 'T is tu deep for any words."

He felt not less uplifted, but his joy was a man's. It rolled and tumbled over his being like
the riotous west wind. Under such stress his mind could find no worthy thing to say, and yet
he was intoxicated and had to speak. He was very unlike himself. He uttered platitudes; then
the weight of Timothy upon his arm reminded him that the child existed.

"He shall go to a good school, Chris."

She sighed.

"I wish I could die quick here by the roadside, dear Martin, for living along with you won't
be no happier than I am this moment. My thoughts do all run back, not forward. I've lived long
enough, I reckon. If I'd told 'e! But I'd rather been skinned alive than do it. I'd have let
the rest knaw years agone but for you."

Driving homewards half an hour later, Chris Blanchard told Martin that part of her story which
concerned her life after the birth of Timothy.

"The travellin' people was pure gawld to me," she said. "And theer's much to say of theer gert
gudeness. But I can tell 'e that another time. It chanced the very day Will's li'l wan was
buried we was to Chagford, an' the sad falling-out quickened my awn mind as to a thought 'bout
my cheel. It comed awver me to leave un at Newtake. I left the vans wheer they was camped that
afternoon, an' hid 'pon the hill wi' the baaby. Then Will comed out hisself, an' I chaanged
my thought an' followed un wheer he roamed, knawin' the colour of his mind through them black
hours as if 'twas my awn. 'Twas arter he'd left the roundy-poundy wheer he was born that I
put my child in it, then called tu un loud an' clear. He never knawed the voice, which was
the awnly thing I feared. But a voice long silent be soon forgot. I bided at hand till I saw
the bwoy in brother Will's arms. An' then I knawed 'twas well an' that mother would come to
see it. Arterwards I suffered very terrible wi'out un. But I fought wi' myself an' kept away
up to the time I'd fixed in my mind. That was so as nobody should link me with the li'l wan
in theer thoughts. Waitin' was the hard deed, and seein' my bwoy for the first time when I
went to Newtake was hard tu. But 'tis all wan now."

She remained silent until the lengthy ride was ended and her mother's cottage reached. Then,
as that home she had thought to enter no more appeared again, the nature of the woman awoke
for one second, and she flung herself on Martin's heart.

"May God make me half you think me, for I love you true, an' you'm the best man He ever fashioned,"
she said. "An' to-morrow's Sunday," she added inconsequently, "an' I'll kneel in church an'
call down lifelong blessings on 'e."

"Don't go to-morrow, my darling. And yet--but no, we'll not go, either of us. I couldn't hear
my own banns read out for the world, and I don't think you could; yet read they'll be as sure
as the service is held."

She said nothing, but he knew that she felt; then mother and child were gone, and Martin, dismissing
his vehicle, proceeded to Monks Barton with the news that all was well.

Mrs. Blanchard heard her daughter's story and its sequel. She exhibited some emotion, but no
grief. The sorrow she may have suffered was never revealed to any eye by word or tear.

"I reckoned of late days theer was Blanchard blood to the child," she said, "an' I won't hide
from you I thought more'n wance you was so like to be the mother as Will the faither of un.
Go to bed now, if you caan't eat, an' taake the bwoy, an' thank God for lining your dark cloud
with this silver. If He forgives 'e, an' this here gude grey Martin forgives 'e, who be I to
fret? Worse'n you've been forgived at fust hand by the Lard when He travelled on flesh-an'-blood
feet 'mong men; an' folks have short memories for dates, an' them as sniggers now will be dust
or dotards 'fore Tim's grawed. When you've been a lawful wife ten year an' more, who's gwaine
to mind this? Not little Tim's fellow bwoys an' gals, anyway. His awn generation won't trouble
him, an' he'll find a wise guardian in Martin, an' a lovin' gran'mother in me. Dry your eyes
an' be a Blanchard. God A'mighty sends sawls in the world His awn way, an' chooses the faithers
an' mothers for 'em; an' He's never taught Nature to go second to parson yet, worse luck. 'Tis
done, an' to grumble at a dead man's doin's--specially if you caan't mend 'em--be vain."

"My share was half, an' not less," said Chris.

"Aye, you say so, but 'tis a deed wheer the blame ban't awften divided equal," answered Mrs.
Blanchard. "Wheer's the maiden as caan't wait for her weddin' bells?"

The use of the last two words magically swept Chris back into the past. The coincidence was
curious, and she remembered when a man, destined never to listen to such melody, declared impatiently
that he heard it in the hidden heart of a summer day long past. She did not reply to her mother,
but arose and took her child and went to rest.

CHAPTER X

BAD NEWS FOR BLANCHARD

On the morning that saw the wedding of Chris and Martin, Phoebe Blanchard found heart and tongue
to speak to her husband of the thing she still kept locked within her mind. Since the meeting
with John Grimbal she had suffered much in secret, but still kept silence; and now, after a
quiet service before breakfast on a morning in mid-December, most of those who had been present
as spectators returned to the valley, and Phoebe spoke to Will as they walked apart from the
rest. A sight of the enemy it was that loosed her lips, for, much to the surprise of all present,
John Grimbal had attended his brother's wedding. As the little gathering streamed away after
the ceremony, he had galloped off again with a groom behind him, and the incident now led to
greater things.

"Chill-fashion weddin'," said Will, as he walked homewards, "but it 'pears to me all Blanchards
be fated to wed coorious. Well, 't is a gude matter out o' hand. I knaw I raged somethin' terrible
come I fust heard it, but I think differ'nt now, specially when I mind what Chris must have
felt those times she seed me welting her child an' heard un yell, yet set her teeth an' never
shawed a sign."

"Did 'e note Jan Grimbal theer?"

"I seed un, an' I catched un wi' his eye on you more 'n wance. He 's grawed to look nowadays
as if his mouth allus had a sour plum in it."

"His brain's got sour stuff hid in it if his mouth haven't. Be you ever feared of un?"

"Not me. Why for should I be? He'll be wan of the fam'ly like, now. He caan't keep his passion
alive for ever. We 'm likely to meet when Martin do come home again from honeymooning."

"Will, I must tell you something--something gert an' terrible. I should have told 'e 'fore
now but I was frightened."

"Not feared to speak to me?"

"Ess, seeing the thing I had to say. I've waited weeks in fear an' tremblin', expecting something
to happen, an' all weighed down with fright an' dread. Now, what wi' the cheel that's comin',
I caan't carry this any more."

Being already lachrymose, after the manner of women at a wedding, Phoebe now shed a tear or
two. Will thereupon spoke words of comfort, and blamed her for hiding any matter from him.

"More trouble?" he said. "Yet I doan't think it,--not now,--just as I be right every way. I
guess 't is your state makes you queer an' glumpy."

"I hope 't was vain talk an' not true anyway."

"More talk 'bout me? You'd think Chagford was most tired o' my name, wouldn't 'e? Who was it now?"

"Him--Jan Grimbal. I met him 'mong the mushrooms. He burst out an' said wicked, awful things,
but his talk touched the li'l bwoy. He thought Tim was yourn an' he was gwaine to do mischief
against you."

"Damn his black mind! I wonder he haven't rotted away wi' his awn bile 'fore now."

"But that weern't all. He talked an' talked, an' threatened if you didn't go an' see him, as
he'd tell 'bout you in the past, when you was away that autumn-time 'fore us was married."

"Did he, by God! Doan't he wish he knawed!"

"He does knaw, Will--least he said he did."

"Never dream it, Phoebe. 'T is a lie. For why? 'Cause if he did knaw I shouldn't--but theer,
I've never tawld 'e, an' I ban't gwaine to now. Awnly I'll say this,--if Grimbal really knawed
he'd have--but he can't knaw, and theer 's an end of it."

"To think I should have been frighted by such a story all these weeks! An' not true. Oh! I
wish I'd told 'e when he sent the message. 'T would have saved me so much."

"Ess, never keep nothin' from me, Phoebe. Theer 's troubles that might crush wan heart as comes
a light load divided between two. What message?"

"Some silly auld story 'bout a suit of grey clothes. He said I was to tell 'e the things was
received by the awner."

Will Blanchard stood still so suddenly that it seemed as though magic had turned him into stone.
He stood, and his hands unclasped, and Phoebe's church service which he carried fell with a
thud into the road. His wife watched him change colour, and noted in his face an expression
she had never before seen there.

"Christ A'mighty!" he whispered, with his eyes reflecting a world of sheer amazement and even
terror; "he does knaw!"

"What? Knaw what, Will? For the Lard's sake doan't 'e look at me like that; you'll frighten
my heart into my mouth."

"To think he knawed an' watched an' waited all these years! The spider patience o' that man!
I see how 't was. He let the world have its way an' thought to see me broken wi'out any trouble
from him. Then, when I conquered, an' got to Miller's right hand, an' beat the world at its
awn game, he--an' been nursing this against me! The heart of un!"

He spoke to himself aloud, gazing straight before him at nothing.

"Will, tell me what 't is. Caan't your awn true wife help 'e now or never?"

Recalled by her words he came to himself, picked up her book, and walked on. She spoke again
and then he answered,--

"No, 't is a coil wheer you caan't do nought--nor nobody. The black power o' waitin'--'t is
that I never heard tell of. I thought I knawed what was in men to the core--me, thirty years
of age, an' a ripe man if ever theer was wan. But this malice! 'T is enough to make 'e believe
in the devil."

"What have you done?" she cried aloud. "Tell me the worst of it, an' how gert a thing he've
got against you."

"Bide quiet," he answered. "I'll tell 'e, but not on the public road. Not but he'll take gude
care every ear has it presently. Shut your mouth now an' come up to our chamber arter breakfast
an' I'll tell 'e the rights of it. An' that dog knawed an' could keep it close all these years!"

"He's dangerous, an' terrible, an' strong. I see it in your faace, Will."

"So he is, then; ban't no foxin' you 'bout it now. 'T is an awful power of waitin' he've got;
an' he haven't bided his time these years an' years for nothin'. A feast to him, I lay. He've
licked his damned lips many a score o' times to think of the food he'd fat his vengeance with
bimebye."

"Can he taake you from me? If not I'll bear it."

"Ess fay, I'm done for; credit, fortune, all gone. It might have been death if us had been
to war at the time."

She clung to him and her head swam.

"Death! God's mercy! you've never killed nobody, Will?"

"Not as I knaws on, but p'r'aps ban't tu late to mend it. It freezes me--it freezes my blood
to think what his thoughts have been. No, no, ban't death or anything like that. But 't is
prison for sure if--"

He broke off and his face was very dark.

"What, Will? If what? Oh, comfort me, comfort me, Will, for God's sake! An' another li'l wan
comin'!"

"Doan't take on," he said. "Ban't my way to squeal till I'm hurt. Let it bide, an' be bright
an' cheery come eating, for mother 's down in the mouth at losin' Chris, though she doan't
shaw it."

Mrs. Blanchard, with little Timothy, joined the breakfast party at Monks Barton, and a certain
gloom hanging over the party, Mr. Blee commented upon it in his usual critical spirit.

"This here givin' in marriage do allus make a looker-on down in the mouth if he 's a sober-minded
sort o' man. 'T is the contrast between the courageousness of the two poor sawls jumpin' into
the state, an' the solid fact of bein' a man's wife or a woman's husband for all time. The
vows they swear! An' that Martin's voice so strong an' cheerful! A teeming cause o' broken
oaths the marriage sarvice; yet each new pair comes along like sheep to the slaughter."

"You talk like a bachelor man," said Damaris.

"Not so, Mrs. Blanchard, I assure 'e! Lookers-on see most of the game. Ban't the mite as lives
in a cheese what can tell e' 'bout the flavour of un. Look at a married man at a weddin'--all
broadcloth an' cheerfulness, like the fox as have lost his tail an' girns to see another chap
in the same pickle."

"Yet you tried blamed hard to lose your tail an' get a wife, for all your talk," said Will,
who, although his mind was full enough, yet could generally find a sharp word for Mr. Blee.

"Bah to you!" answered the old man angrily. "That for you! 'T is allus your way to bring personal
talk into high conversation. I was improvin' the hour with general thoughts; but the vulgar
tone you give to a discourse would muzzle the wisdom o' Solomon."

Miller Lyddon here made an effort to re-establish peace and soon afterwards the meal came to
an end.

Half an hour later Phoebe heard from her husband the story of his brief military career: of
how he had enlisted as a preliminary to going abroad and making his fortune, how he had become
servant to one Captain Tremayne, how upon the news of Phoebe's engagement he had deserted,
and how his intention to return and make a clean breast of it had been twice changed by the
circumstances that followed his marriage. Long he took in detailing every incident and circumstance.

"Coming to think," he said, "of coourse 't is clear as Grimbal must knaw my auld master. I
seed his name raised to a Major in the Western Morning News a few year agone, an' he was to
Okehampton with a battalion when Hicks come by his death. So that's how't is; an' I ban't gwaine
to bide Grimbal's time to be ruined, you may be very sure of that. Now I knaw, I act."

"He may be quite content you should knaw. That's meat an' drink enough for him, to think of
you gwaine in fear day an' night."

"Ess, but that's not my way. I ban't wan to wait an enemy's pleasure."

"You won't go to him, Will?"

"Go to un? Ess fay--'fore the day's done, tu."

"That's awnly to hasten the end."

"The sooner the better."

He tramped up and down the bedroom with his eyes on the ground, his hands in his pockets.

"A tremendous thing to tumble up on the surface arter all these years; an' a tremendous time
for it to come. 'T was a crime 'gainst the Queen for my awn gude ends. I had to choose 'tween
her an' you; I'd do the same to-morrow. The fault weern't theer. It lay in not gwaine back."

"You couldn't; your arm was broke."

"I ought to have gone back arter 't was well. Then time had passed, an' uncle's money corned,
an' they never found me. But theer it lies ahead now, sure enough."

"Perhaps for sheer shame he'll bide quiet 'bout it. A man caan't hate another man for ever."

"I thought not, same as you, but Grimbal shaws we 'm wrong."

"Let us go, then; let us do what you thought to do 'fore faither comed forward so kind. Let
us go away to furrin paarts, even now."

"I doubt if he'd let me go. 'T is mouse an' cat for the minute. Leastways so he's thought since
he talked to 'e. But he'll knaw differ'nt 'fore he lies in his bed to-night. Must be cut an'
dried an' settled."

"Be slow to act, Will, an'--"

"Theer! theer!" he said, "doan't 'e offer me no advice, theer's a gude gal, 'cause I couldn't
stand it even from you, just this minute. God knaws I'm not above takin' it in a general way,
for the best tried man can larn from babes an' sucklings sometimes; but this is a thing calling
for nothin' but shut lips. 'T is my job an' I've got to see it through my own way."

"You'll be patient, Will? 'T isn't like other times when you was right an' him wrong. He's
got the whip-hand of 'e, so you mustn't dictate."

"Not me. I can be reasonable an' just as any man. I never hid from myself I was doin' wrong
at the time. But, when all's said, this auld history's got two sides to it--'specially if you
remember that 't was through John Grimbal's awn act I had to do wan wrong thing to save you
doin' a worse wan. He'll have to be reasonable likewise. 'T is man to man."

Will's conversation lasted another hour, but Phoebe could not shake his determination, and
after dinner Blanchard departed to the Red House, his destination being known to his wife only.

But while Will marched upon this errand, the man he desired to see had just left his own front
door, struck through leafless coppices of larch and silver beech that approached the house,
and then proceeded to where bigger timber stood about a little plateau of marshy land, surrounded
by tall flags. The woodlands had paid their debt to Nature in good gold, and all the trees
were naked. An east wind lent a hard, clean clearness to the country. In the foreground two
little lakes spread their waters steel-grey in a cup of lead; the distance was clear and cold
and compact of all sober colours save only where, through a grey and interlacing nakedness
of many boughs, the roof of the Red House rose.

John Grimbal sat upon a felled tree beside the pools, and while he remained motionless, his
pipe unlighted, his gun beside him, a spaniel worked below in the sere sedges at the water's
margin. Presently the dog barked, a moor-hen splashed, half flying, half swimming, across the
larger lake, and a snipe got up and jerked crookedly away on the wind. The dog stood with one
fore-paw lifted and the water dripping along his belly. He waited for a crack and puff of smoke
and the thud of a bird falling into the water or the underwood. But his master did not fire;
he did not even see the flushing of the snipe; so the dog came up and remonstrated with his
eyes. Grimbal patted the beast's head, then rose from his seat on the felled tree, stretched
his arms, sat down again and lighted his pipe.

The event of the morning had turned his thoughts in the old direction, and now they were wholly
occupied with Will Blanchard. Since his fit of futile spleen and fury after the meeting with
Phoebe, John had slowly sunk back into the former nerveless attitude. From this an occasional
wonder roused him--a wonder as to whether the woman had ever given her husband his message
at all. His recent active hatred seemed a little softened, though why it should be so he could
not have explained. Now he sometimes assured himself that he should not proceed to extremities,
but hang his sword over Will's head a while and possibly end by pardoning him altogether.

Thus he paltered with his better part and presented a spectacle of one mentally sick unto death
by reason of shattered purpose. His unity of design was gone. He had believed the last conversation
with Phoebe in itself sufficient to waken his pristine passion, but anger against himself had
been a great factor of that storm, apart from which circumstance he made the mistake of supposing
that his passion slept, whereas in reality it was dead. Now, if Grimbal was to be stung into
activity, it must be along another line and upon a fresh count.

Then, as he reflected by the little tarns, there approached Will Blanchard himself; and Grimbal,
looking up, saw him standing among white tussocks of dead grass by the water-side and rubbing
the mud off his boots upon them. For a moment his breath quickened, but he was not surprised;
and yet, before Will reached him, he had time to wonder at himself that he was not.

Blanchard, calling at the Red House ten minutes after the master's departure, had been informed
by old Lawrence Vallack, John's factotum, that he had come too late. It transpired, however,
that Grimbal had taken his gun and a dog, so Will, knowing the estate, made a guess at the
sportsman's destination, and was helped on his way when he came within earshot of the barking
spaniel.

Now that animal resented his intrusion, and for a moment it appeared that the brute's master
did also. Will had already seen Grimbal where he sat, and came swiftly towards him.

"What are you doing here, William Blanchard? You're trespassing and you know it," said the
landowner loudly. "You can have no business here."

"Haven't I? Then why for do'e send me messages?"

Will stood straight and stern in front of his foe. His face was more gloomy than the sombre
afternoon; his jaw stood out very square; his grey eyes were hard as the glint of the east
wind. He might have been accuser, and John Grimbal accused. The sportsman did not move from
his seat upon the log. But he felt a flush of blood pulse through him at the other's voice,
as though his heart, long stagnant, was being sluiced.

"That? I'd forgotten all about it. You've taken your time in obeying me."

"This marnin', an' not sooner, I heard what you telled her when you catched Phoebe alone."

"Ah! now I understand the delay. Say what you've got to say, please, and then get out of my sight."

"'T is for you to speak, not me. What be you gwaine to do, an' when be you gwaine to do it?
I allow you've bested me, God knaws how; but you've got me down. So the sooner you say what
your next step is, the better."

The older man laughed.

"'T isn't the beaten party makes the terms as a rule."

"I want no terms; I wouldn't make terms with you for a sure plaace in heaven. Tell me what
you be gwaine to do against me. I've a right to knaw."

"I can't tell you."

"You mean as you won't tell me?"

"I mean I can't--not yet. After speaking to your wife I forgot all about it. It doesn't interest
me."

"Be you gwaine to give me up?"

"Probably I shall--as a matter of duty. I'm a bit of a soldier myself. It's such a dirty coward's
trick to desert. Yes, I think I shall make an example of you."

Will looked at him steadily.

"You want to wake the devil in me--I see that. But you won't. I'm aulder an' wiser now. So
you 'm to give me up? I knawed it wi'out axin'."

"And that doesn't wake you?"

"No. Seein' why I deserted an' mindin' your share in drivin' me."

Grimbal did not answer, and Will asked him to name a date.

"I tell you I shall suit myself, not you. When you will like it least, be sure of that. I needn't
pretend what I don't feel. I hate the sight of you still, and the closer you come the more
I hate you. It rolls years off me to see your damned brown face so near and hear your voice
in my ear,--years and years; and I'm glad it does. You've ruined my life, and I'll ruin yours yet."

There was a pause; Blanchard stared cold and hard into Grimbal's eyes; then John continued,
and his flicker of passion cooled a little as he did so,--

"At least that's what I said to myself when first I heard this little bit of news--that I'd
ruin you; now I'm not sure."

"At least I'll thank you to make up your mind. 'T is turn an' turn about. You be uppermost
just this minute. As to ruining me, that's as may be."

"Well, I shall decide presently. I suppose you won't run away. And it 's no great matter if
you do, for a fool can't hide himself under his folly."

"I sha'n't run. I want to get through with this and have it behind me."

"You're in a hurry now."

"It 's just an' right. I knaw that. An' ban't no gert odds who 's informer. But I want to have
it behind me--an' you in front. Do 'e see? This out o' hand, then it 's my turn again. Keepin'
me waitin' 'pon such a point be tu small an' womanish for a fight between men. 'T is your turn
to hit, Jan Grimbal, an' theer 's no guard 'gainst the stroke, so if you're a man, hit an'
have done with it."

"Ah! you don't like the thought of waiting!"

"No, I do not. I haven't got your snake's patience. Let me have what I've got to have, an'
suffer it, an' make an' end of it."

"You're in a hurry for a dish that won't be pleasant eating, I assure you."

"It's just an' right I tell 'e; an' I knaw it is, though all these years cover it. Your paart
's differ'nt. I lay you 'm in a worse hell than me, even now."

"A moralist! How d' you like the thought of a damned good flogging--fifty lashes laid on hot
and strong?"

"Doan't you wish you had the job? Thrashing of a man wi' his legs an' hands tied would just
suit your sort of courage."

"As to that, they won't flog you really; and I fancy I could thrash you still without any help.
Your memory 's short. Never mind. Get you gone now; and never speak to me again as long as
you live, or I shall probably hit you across the mouth with my riding-whip. As to giving you
up, you're in my hands and must wait my time for that."

"Must I, by God? Hark to a fule talkin'! Why should I wait your pleasure, an' me wi' a tongue
in my head? You've jawed long enough. Now you can listen. I'll give myself up, so theer! I'll
tell the truth, an' what drove me to desert, an' what you be anyway--as goes ridin' out wi'
the yeomanry so braave in black an' silver with your sword drawed! That'll spoil your market
for pluck an' valour, anyways. An' when I've done all court-martial gives me, I'll come back!"

He swung away as he spoke; and the other sat on motionless for an hour after Will had departed.

John Grimbal's pipe went out; his dog, weary of waiting, crept to his feet and fell asleep
there; live fur and feathers peeped about and scanned his bent figure, immobile as a tree-trunk
that supported it; and the gun, lying at hand, drew down a white light from a gathering gloaming.

One great desire was in the sportsman's mind,--he already found himself hungry for another
meeting with Blanchard.

CHAPTER XI

PHOEBE TAKES THOUGHT

That night Will sat and smoked in his bedroom and talked to Phoebe, who had already gone to
rest. She looked over her knees at him with round, sad eyes; while beside her in a cot slept
her small daughter. A candle burned on the mantelpiece and served to illuminate one or two
faded pictures; a daguerreotype of Phoebe as a child sitting on a donkey, and an ancient silhouette
of Miller Lyddon, cut for him on his visit to the Great Exhibition. In a frame beneath these
appeared the photograph of little Will who had died at Newtake.

"He thinks he be gwaine to bide his time an' let me stew an' sweat for it," said the man moodily.

"Awnly a born devil could tell such wickedness. Ban't theer no ways o' meetin' him, now you
knaw? If you'd speak to faither--"

"What 's the use bringing sorrow on his grey hairs?"

"Well, it's got to come; you knaw that. Grimbal isn't the man to forgive."

"Forgive! That would be worst of all. If he forgived me now I'd go mad. Wait till I've had
soldier law, then us'll talk 'bout forgiving arter."

Phoebe shivered and began to cry helplessly, drying her eyes upon the sheet.

"Theer--theer," he said; "doan't be a cheel. We 'm made o' stern stuff, you an' me. 'T is awnly
a matter of years, I s'pose, an' the reason I went may lessen the sentence a bit. Mother won't
never turn against me, an' so long as your faither can forgive, the rest of the world's welcome
to look so black as it pleases."

"Faither'll forgive 'e."

"He might--just wance more. He've got to onderstand my points better late days."

"Come an' sleep then, an' fret no more till marnin' light anyway."

"'Tis the thing hidden, hanging over my head, biding behind every corner. I caan't stand it;
I caan't wait for it. I'll grow sheer devil if I've got to wait; an', so like as not, I'll
meet un faace to faace some day an' send un wheer neither his bark nor bite will harm me. Ess
fay--solemn truth. I won't answer for it. I can put so tight a hand 'pon myself as any man
since Job, but to sit down under this--"

"Theer's nought else you can do," said Phoebe. She yawned as she spoke, but Will's reply strangled
the yawn and effectually woke her up.

"So Jan Grimbal said, an' I blamed soon shawed un he was out. Theer's a thing I can do an'
shall do. 'T will sweep the ground from under un; 't will blaw off his vengeance harmless as
a gun fired in the air; 't will turn his malice so sour as beer after thunder. I be gwaine
to give myself up--then us'll see who's the fule!"

Phoebe was out of bed with her arms round her husband in a moment.

"No, no--never. You couldn't, Will; you daren't--'tis against nature. You ban't free to do
no such wild thing. You forget me, an' the li'l maid, an' t' other comin'!"

"Doan't 'e choke me," he said; "an' doan't 'e look so terrified. Your small hands caan't keep
off what's ahead o' me; an' I wouldn't let 'em if they could. 'T is in this world that a chap's
got to pay for his sins most times, an' damn short credit, tu, so far as I can see. So what
they want to bleat 'bout hell-fire for I've never onderstood, seeing you get your change here.
Anyway, so sure as I do a trick that ban't 'zactly wise, the whip 's allus behind it--the whip--"

He repeated the word in a changed voice, for it reminded him of what Grimbal had threatened.
He did not know whether there might be truth in it. His pride winced and gasped. He thought
of Phoebe seeing his bare back perhaps years afterwards. A tempest of rage blackened his face
and he spoke in a voice hoarse and harsh.

"Get up an' go to bed. Doan't whine, for God's sake, or you'll drive me daft. I've paid afore,
an' I'll pay again; an' may the Lard help him who ever owes me ought. No mercy have I ever
had from living man,--'cept Miller,--none will I ever shaw."

"Not to-morrow, Will--not this week. Promise that, an' I'll get into bed an' bide quiet. For
your love o' me, just leave it till arter Christmas time. Promise that, else you'll kill me.
No, no, no--you shaa'n't shout me down 'pon this. I'll cry to 'e while I've got life left.
Promise not till Christmas be past."

"I'll promise nothing. I must think in the peace o' night. Go to sleep an 'bide quiet, else
you'll wake the li'l gal."

"I won't--I won't--I'll never sleep again. Caan' t'e think o' me so well as yourself--you as
be allus thinking o' me? Ban't I to count in an awful pass like this? I'm no fair-weather wife,
as you knaws by now. If you gives yourself up, I'll kill myself. You think I couldn't, but
I could. What's my days away from you?"

"Hush, hush!" he said. "Be you mad? 'T is a matter tu small for such talk as that."

"Promise, then, promise you'll be dumb till arter Christmas."

"So I will, if you 'm that set on it; but if you knawed what waitin' meant to the likes o'
me, you wouldn't ax. You've got my word, now keep quiet, theer 's a dear love, an' dry your eyes."

He put her into bed, and soon stretched himself beside her. Then she clung to him as though
powers were already dragging him away for ever. Will, bored and weary, was sorry for his wife
with all his soul, and kept grunting words of good cheer and comfort as he sank to sleep. She
still begged and prayed for delay, and by her importunity made him promise at last that he
would take no step until after New Year's Day. Then, finding she could win no more in that
direction, Phoebe turned to another aspect of the problem, and began to argue with unexpected
if sophistic skill. Her tears were now dry, her eyes very bright beneath the darkness; she
talked and talked with feverish volubility, and her voice faded into a long-drawn murmur as
Will's hearing weakened on the verge of unconsciousness.

"Why for d' you say you was wrong in what you done? Why d' you harp an' harp 'pon that, knawin'
right well you'd do the same again to-morrow? You wasn't wrong, an' the Queen's self would
say the same if she knawed. 'T was to save a helpless woman you runned; an' her--Queen Victoria--wi'
her big heart as can sigh for the sorrow of even such small folks as us--she'd be the last
to blame 'e."

"She'll never knaw nothin' 'bout it, gude or bad. They doan't vex her ears wi' trifles. I deserted,
an' that's a crime."

"I say 't weern't no such thing. You had to choose between that an' letting me die. You saved
my life; an' the facts would be judged the same by any as was wife an' mother, high or low.
God A'mighty 's best an' awnly judge how much you was wrong; an' you knaw He doan't blame 'e,
else your heart would have been sore for it these years an' years. You never blamed yourself
till now."

"Ess, awften an' awften I did. It comed an' went, an' comed an' went again, like winter frosts.
True as I'm living it comed an' went like that."

Thus he spoke, half incoherently, his voice all blurred and vague with sleep.

"You awnly think 't was so. You'd never have sat down under it else. It ban't meant you should
give yourself up now, anyways. God would have sent the sojers to find 'e when you runned away
if He'd wanted 'em to find 'e. You didn't hide. You looked the world in the faace bold as a
lion, didn't 'e? Coourse you did; an' 't is gwaine against God's will an' wish for you to give
yourself up now. So you mustn't speak an' you must tell no one--not even faither. I was wrong
to ax 'e to tell him. Nobody at all must knaw. Be dumb, an' trust me to be dumb. 'T is buried
an' forgot. I'll fight for 'e, my dearie, same as you've fought for me many a time; an' 't
will all fall out right for 'e, for men 's come through worse passes than this wi' fewer friends
than what you've got."

She stopped to win breath and, in the silence, heard Will's regular respiration and knew that
he slept. How much he had heard of her speech Phoebe could not say, but she felt glad to think
that some hours at least of rest and peace now awaited him. For herself she had never been
more widely awake, and her brains were very busy through the hours of darkness. A hundred thoughts
and schemes presented themselves. She gradually eliminated everybody from the main issue but
Will, John Grimbal, and herself; and, pursuing the argument, began to suspect that she alone
had power to right the wrong. In one direction only could such an opinion lead--a direction
tremendous to her. Yet she did not shrink from the necessity ahead; she strung herself up to
face it; she longed for an opportunity and resolved to make one at the earliest moment.

Now that night was the longest in the whole year; and yet to Phoebe it passed with magic celerity.

Will awakened about half-past five, rose immediately according to his custom, lighted a candle,
and started to dress himself. He began the day in splendid spirits, begotten of good sleep
and good health; but his wife saw the lightness of heart, the bustling activity of body, sink
into apathy and inertia as remembrance overtook his wakening hour. It was like a brief and
splendid dawn crushed by storm-clouds at the very rise of the sun.

Phoebe presently dressed her little daughter and, as soon as the child had gone down-stairs,
Will resumed the problems of his position.

"I be in two minds this marnin'," he said. "I've a thought to tell mother of this matter. She
'm that wise, I've knawed her put me on the right track 'fore now, an' never guess she'd done
it. Not but what I allus awn up to taking advice, if I follow it, an' no man 's readier to
profit by the wisdom of his betters than me. That's how I've done all I have done in my time.
T' other thought was to take your counsel an' see Miller 'pon it."

"I was wrong, Will--quite wrong. I've been thinking, tu. He mustn't knaw, nor yet mother, nor
nobody. Quite enough knaws as 't is."

"What's the wisdom o' talkin' like that? Who 's gwaine to hide the thing, even if they wanted
to? God knaws I ban't. I'd like, so well as not, to go up Chagford next market-day an' shout
out the business afore the world."

"You can't now. You must wait. You promised. I thought about it with every inch of my brain
last night, an' I got a sort of feeling--I caan't explain, but wait. I've trusted you all my
life long an' allus shall; now 't is your turn to trust me, just this wance. I've got great
thoughts. I see the way; I may do much myself. You see, Jan Grimbal--"

Will stood still with his chin half shorn.

"You dare to do that," he said, "an' I'll raise Cain in this plaace; I'll--"

He broke off and laughed at himself.

"Here be I blusterin' like a gert bully now! Doan't be feared, Phoebe. Forgive my noise. You
mean so well, but you caan't hide your secrets, fortunately. Bless your purty eyes--tu gude
for me, an' allus was, braave li'l woman!

"But no more of that--no seekin' him, an' no speech with him, if that's the way your poor,
silly thought was. My bones smart to think of you bearin' any of it. But doan't you put no
oar into this troubled water, else the bwoat'll capsize, sure as death. I've promised 'e not
to say a word till arter New Year; now you must promise me never, so help you, to speak to
that man, or look at un, or listen to a word from un. Fly him like you would the devil; an'
a gude second to the devil he is--if 't is awnly in the matter o' patience. Promise now."

"You 'm so hasty, Will. You doan't onderstand a woman's cleverness in such matters. 'T is just
the fashion thing as shaws what we 'm made of."

"Promise!" he thundered angrily. "Now, this instant moment, in wan word."

She gave him a single defiant glance. Then the boldness of her eyes faded and her lips drooped
at the corners.

"I promise, then."

"I should think you did."

A few minutes later Will was gone, and Phoebe dabbed her moist eyes and blamed herself for
so clumsily revealing her great intention,--to see John Grimbal and plead with him. This secret
ambition was now swept away, and she knew not where to turn or how to act for her husband.

CHAPTER XII

NEW YEAR'S EVE AND NEW YEAR'S DAY

From this point in his career Will Blanchard, who lacked all power of hiding his inner heart,
soon made it superficially apparent that new troubles had overtaken him. No word concerning
his intolerable anxieties escaped him, but a great cloud of tribulation encompassed every hour,
and was revealed to others by increased petulance and shortness of temper. This mental friction
quickly appeared on the young man's face, and his habitual expression of sulkiness which formerly
belied him, now increased and more nearly reflected the reigning temperament of Blanchard's
mind. His nerves were on the rack and he grew sullen and fretful. A dreary expression gained
upon his features, an expression sad as a winter twilight brushed with rain. To Phoebe he seldom
spoke of the matter, and she soon abandoned further attempts to intrude upon his heart though
her own was breaking for him. Billy Blee and the farm hands were Will's safety-valve. One moment
he showered hard and bitter words; the next, at sight of some ploughboy's tears or older man's
reasonable anger, Will instantly relented and expressed his sorrow. The dullest among them
grew in time to discern matters were amiss with him, for his tormented mind began to affect
his actions and disorder the progress of his life. At times he worked laboriously and did much
with his own hands that might have been left to others; but his energy was displayed in a manner
fitful and spasmodic; occasionally he would vanish altogether for four-and-twenty hours or
more; and none knew when he might appear or disappear.

It happened on New Year's Eve that a varied company assembled at the "Green Man" according
to ancient custom. Here were Inspector Chown, Mr. Chapple, Mr. Blee, Charles Coomstock, with
many others; and the assembly was further enriched by the presence of the bell-ringers. Their
services would be demanded presently to toll out the old year, to welcome with joyful peal
the new; and they assembled here until closing time that they might enjoy a pint of the extra
strong liquor a prosperous publican provided for his customers at this season.

The talk was of Blanchard, and Mr. Blee, provided with a theme which always challenged his
most forcible diction, discussed Will freely and without prejudice.

"I 'most goes in fear of my life, I tell 'e; but thank God 't is the beginning of the end.
He'll spread his wings afore spring and be off again, or I doan't knaw un. Ess fay, he'll depart
wi' his fiery nature an' horrible ideas 'pon manuring of land; an' a gude riddance for Monks
Barton, I say."

"'Mazing 't is," declared Mr. Coomstock, "that he should look so black all times, seeing the
gude fortune as turns up for un when most he wants it."

"So 't is," admitted Billy. "The faace of un weer allus sulky, like to the faace of a auld
ram cat, as may have a gude heart in un for all his glowerin' eyes. But him! Theer ban't no
pleasin' un. What do he want? Surely never no man 's failed on his feet awftener."

"'T is that what 's spoilin' un, I reckon," said Mr. Chappie. "A li'l ill-fortune he wants
now, same as a salad o' green stuff wants some bite to it. He'd grumble in heaven, by the looks
of un. An' yet it do shaw the patience of God wi' human sawls."

"Ess, it do," answered Mr. Blee; "but patience ban't a virtue, pushed tu far. Justice is justice,
as I've said more 'n wance to Miller an' Blanchard, tu, an' a man of my years can see wheer
justice lies so clear as God can. For why? Because theer ban't room for two opinions. I've
give my Maker best scores an' scores o' times, as we all must; but truth caan't alter, an'
having put thinking paarts into our heads, 't is more 'n God A'mighty's Self can do to keep
us from usin' of'em."

"A tremenjous thought," said Mr. Chapple.

"So 't is. An' what I want to knaw is, why should Blanchard have his fling, an' treat me like
dirt, an' ride rough-shod awver his betters, an' scowl at the sky all times, an' nothin' said?"

"Providence doan't answer a question just 'cause we 'm pleased to ax wan," said Abraham Chown.
"What happens happens, because 't is foreordained, an' you caan't judge the right an' wrong
of a man's life from wan year or two or ten, more 'n you can judge a glass o' ale by a tea-spoon
of it. Many has a long rope awnly to hang themselves in the end, by the wonnerful foresight
of God."

"All the same, theer'd be hell an' Tommy to pay mighty quick, if you an' me did the things
that bwoy does, an' carried on that onreligious," replied Mr. Blee, with gloomy conviction.
"Ban't fair to other people, an' if 't was Doomsday I'd up an' say so. What gude deeds have
he done to have life smoothed out, an' the hills levelled an' the valleys filled up? An' nought
but sour looks for it."

"But be you sure he 'm happy?" inquired Mr. Chapple. "He 'm not the man to walk 'bout wi' a
fiddle-faace if 't was fair weather wi' un. He've got his troubles same as us, depend upon it."

Blanchard himself entered at this moment. It wanted but half an hour to closing time when he
did so, and he glanced round the bar, snorted at the thick atmosphere of alcohol and smoke,
then pulled out his pipe and took a vacant chair.

"Gude evenin', Will," said Mr. Chapple.

"A happy New Year, Blanchard," added the landlord.

"Evening, sawls all," answered Will, nodding round him. "Auld year's like to die o' frost by
the looks of it--a stinger, I tell 'e. Anybody seen Farmer Endicott? I've been looking for
un since noon wi' a message from my faither-in-law."

"I gived thicky message this marnin'," cried Billy.

"Ess, I knaw you did; that's my trouble. You gived it wrong. I'll just have a pint of the treble
X then. 'T is the night for 't."

Will's demeanour belied the recent conversation respecting him. He appeared to be in great
spirits, joked with the men, exchanged shafts with Billy, and was the first to roar with laughter
when Mr. Blee got the better of him in a brisk battle of repartee. Truth to tell, the young
man's heart felt somewhat lighter, and with reason. To-morrow his promise to Phoebe held him
no longer, and his carking, maddening trial of patience was to end. The load would drop from
his shoulders at daylight. His letter to Mr. Lyddon had been written; in the morning the miller
must read it before breakfast, and learn that his son-in-law had started for Plymouth to give
himself up for the crime of the past. John Grimbal had made no sign, and the act of surrender
would now be voluntary--a thought which lightened Blanchard's heart and induced a turn of temper
almost jovial. He joined a chorus, laughed with the loudest, and contrived before closing time
to drink a pint and a half of the famous special brew. Then the bell-ringers departed to their
duties, and Mr. Chapple with Mr. Blee, Will, and one or two other favoured spirits spent a
further half-hour in their host's private parlour, and there consumed a little sloe gin, to
steady the humming ale.

"You an' me must see wan another home," said Will when he and Mr. Blee departed into the frosty
night.

"Fust time as ever you give me an arm," murmured Billy.

"Won't be the last, I'm sure," declared Will.

"I've allus had a gude word for 'e ever since I knawed 'e," answered Billy.

"An' why for shouldn't 'e?" asked Will.

"Beginning of New Year 's a solemn sarcumstance," proceeded Billy, as a solitary bell began
to toll. "Theer 's the death-rattle of eighteen hunderd an' eighty-six! Well, well, we must
all die--men an' mice."

"An' the devil take the hindmost."

Mr. Blee chuckled.

"Let 's go round this way," he said.

"Why? Ban't your auld bones ready for bed yet? Theer 's nought theer but starlight an' frost."

"Be gormed to the frost! I laugh at it. Ban't that. 'T is the Union workhouse, wheer auld Lezzard
lies. I likes to pass, an' nod to un as he sits on the lew side o' the wall in his white coat,
chumping his thoughts between his gums."

"He 'm happier 'n me or you, I lay."

"Not him! You should see un glower 'pon me when I gives un 'gude day.' I tawld un wance as
the Poor Rates was up somethin' cruel since he'd gone in the House, an' he looked as though
he'd 'a' liked to do me violence. No, he ban't happy, I warn 'e."

"Well, you won't see un sitting under the stars in his white coat, poor auld blid. He 'm asleep
under the blankets, I lay."

"Thin wans! Thin blankets an' not many of 'em. An' all his awn doin'. Patent justice, if ever
I seed it."

"Tramp along! You can travel faster 'n that. Ess fay! Justice is the battle-cry o' God against
men most times. Maybe they 'm strong on it in heaven, but theer 's damned little filters down
here. Theer go the bells! Another New Year come. Years o' the Lard they call 'em! Years o'
the devil most times, if you ax me. What do 'e want the New Year to bring to you, Billy?"

"A contented 'eart," said Mr. Blee, "an' perhaps just half-a-crown more a week, if 't was seemly.
Brains be paid higher 'n sweat in this world, an' I'm mostly brain now in my dealin's wi' Miller.
A brain be like a nut, as ripens all the year through an' awnly comes to be gude for gathering
when the tree 's in the sere. 'T is in the autumn of life a man's brain be worth plucking like--eh?"

"Doan't knaw. They 'm maggoty mostly at your age!"

"An' they 'm milky mostly at yourn!"

"Listen to the bells an' give awver chattering," said Will.

"After gude store o' drinks, a sad thing like holy bells ringing in the dark afar off do sting
my nose an' bring a drop to my eye," confessed Mr. Blee. "An' you--why, theer 's a baaby hid
away in the New Year for you--a human creature as may do gert wonders in the land an' turn
out into Antichrist, for all you can say positive. Theer 's a braave thought for 'e!"

This remark sobered Blanchard and his mind travelled into the future, to Phoebe, to the child
coming in June.

Billy babbled on, and presently they reached Mrs. Blanchard's cottage. Damaris herself, with
a shawl over her head, stood and listened to the bells, and Will, taking leave of Mr. Blee,
hastened to wish his mother all happiness in the year now newly dawned. He walked once or twice
up and down the little garden beside her, and with a tongue loosened by liquor came near to
telling her of his approaching action, but did not do so. Meantime Mr. Blee steered himself
with all caution over Rushford Bridge to Monks Barton.

Presently the veteran appeared before his master and Phoebe, who had waited for the advent
of the New Year before retiring. Miller Lyddon was about to suggest a night-cap for Billy,
but changed his mind.

"Enough 's as gude as a feast," he said. "Canst get up-stairs wi'out help?"

"Coourse I can! But the chap to the 'Green Man's' that perfuse wi' his liquor at seasons of
rejoicing. More went down than was chalked up; I allow that. If you'll light my chamber cannel,
I'll thank 'e, missis; an' a Happy New Year to all."

Phoebe obeyed, launched Mr. Blee in the direction of his chamber, then turned to receive Will's
caress as he came home and locked the door behind him.

The night air still carried the music of the bells. For an hour they pealed on; then the chime
died slowly, a bell at a time, until two clanged each against the other. Presently one stopped
and the last, weakening softly, beat a few strokes more, then ceased to fret the frosty birth-hour
of another year.

The darkness slipped away, and Blanchard who had long learned to rise without awakening his
wife, was up and dressed again soon after five o'clock. He descended silently, placed a letter
on the mantelpiece in the kitchen, abstracted a leg of goose and a hunch of bread from the
larder, then set out upon a chilly walk of five miles to Moreton Hampstead. From there he designed
to take train and proceed to Plymouth as directly and speedily as possible.

Some two hours later Will's letter found itself in Mr. Lyddon's hand, and his father-in-law
learnt the secret. Phoebe was almost as amazed as the miller himself when this knowledge came
to her ear; for Will had not breathed his intention to her, and no suspicion had crossed his
wife's mind that he intended to act with such instant promptitude on the expiration of their
contract.

"I doubted I knawed him through an' through at last, but 't is awnly to-day, an' after this,
that I can say as I do," mused Mr. Lyddon over an untasted breakfast. "To think he runned them
awful risks to make you fast to him! To think he corned all across England in the past to make
you his wife against the danger on wan side, an' the power o' Jan Grimbal an' me drawed up
'pon the other!"

Pursuing this strain to Phoebe's heartfelt relief, the miller neither assumed an attitude of
great indignation at Will's action nor affected despair of his future. He was much bewildered,
however.

"He'll keep me 'mazed so long as I live, 'pears to me. But he 'm gone for the present, an'
I doan't say I'm sorry, knawin' what was behind. No call for you to sob yourself into a fever.
Please God, he'll be back long 'fore you want him. Us'll make the least we can of it, an' bide
patient until we hear tell of him. He've gone to Plymouth--that's all Chagford needs to knaw
at present."

"Theer 's newspapers an' Jan Grimbal," sobbed Phoebe.

"A dark man wi' fixed purposes, sure enough," admitted her father, for Will's long letter had
placed all the facts before him. "What he'll do us caan't say, though, seein' Will's act, theer
's nothin' more left for un. Why has the man been silent so long if he meant to strike in the
end? Now I must go an' tell Mrs. Blanchard. Will begs an' prays of me to do that so soon as
he shall be gone; an' he 'm right. She ought to knaw; but 't is a job calling for careful choice
of words an' a light hand. Wonder is to me he didn't tell her hisself. But he never does what
you'd count 'pon his doing."

"You won't tell Billy, faither, will 'e? Ban't no call for that."

"I won't tell him, certainly not; but Blee 's a ferret when a thing 's hid. A detective mind
theer is to Billy. How would it do to tell un right away an' put un 'pon his honour to say
nothing?"

"He mustn't knaw; he mustn't knaw. He couldn't keep a secret like that if you gived un fifty
pounds to keep it. So soon tell a town-crier as him."

"Then us won't," promised Mr. Lyddon, and ten minutes after he proceeded to Mrs. Blanchard's
cottage with the news. His first hasty survey of the position had not been wholly unfavourable
to Will, but he was a man of unstable mind in his estimates of human character, and now he
chiefly occupied his thoughts with the offence of desertion from the army. The disgrace of
such an action magnified itself as he reflected upon Will's unhappy deed.

Phoebe, meantime, succumbed and found herself a helpless prey of terrors vague and innumerable.
Will's fate she could not guess at; but she felt it must be severe; she doubted not that his
sentence would extend over long years. In her dejection and misery she mourned for herself
and wondered what manner of babe would this be that now took substance through a season of
such gloom and accumulated sorrows. The thought begat pity for the coming little one,--utmost
commiseration that set Phoebe's tears flowing anew,--and when the miller returned he found
his daughter stricken beyond measure and incoherent under her grief. But Mr. Lyddon came back
with a companion, and it was her husband, not her father, who dried Phoebe's eyes and cheered
her lonely heart. Will, indeed, appeared and stood by her suddenly; and she heard his voice
and cried a loud thanksgiving and clasped him close.

Yet no occasion for rejoicing had brought about this unexpected reappearance. Indeed, more
ill-fortune was responsible for it. When Mr. Lyddon arrived at Mrs. Blanchard's gate, he found
both Will and Doctor Parsons standing there, then learnt the incident that had prevented his
son-in-law's proposed action.

Passing that way himself some hours earlier, Will had been suddenly surprised to see blue smoke
rising from a chimney of the house. It was a very considerable time before such event might
reasonably be expected and a second look alarmed Blanchard's heart, for on the little chimney-stack
he knew each pot, and it was not the kitchen chimney but that of his mother's bedroom which
now sent evidence of a newly lighted fire into the morning.

In a second Will's plans and purposes were swept away before this spectacle. A fire in a bedroom
represented a circumstance almost outside his experience. At least it indicated sickness unto
death. He was in the house a moment later, for the latch lifted at his touch; and when he knocked
at his mother's door and cried his name, she bade him come in.

"What's this? What's amiss with 'e, mother? Doan't say 't is anything very bad. I seed the
smoke an' my heart stood still."

She smiled and assured him her illness was of no account.

"Ban't nothing. Just a shivering an' stabbing in the chest. My awn fulishness to be out listening
to they bells in the frost. But no call to fear. I awnly axed my li'l servant to get me a cup
o' tea, an' she comed an' would light the fire, an' would go for doctor, though theer ban't
no 'casion at all."

"Every occasion, an' the gal was right, an' it shawed gude sense in such a dinky maid as her.
Nothin' like taaking a cold in gude time. Do 'e catch heat from the fire?"

Mrs. Blanchard's eyes were dull, and her breathing a little disordered. Will instantly began
to bustle about. He added fuel to the flame, set on a kettle, dragged blankets out of cupboards
and piled them upon his mother. Then he found a pillow-case, aired it until the thing scorched,
inserted a pillow, and placed it beneath the patient's head. His subsequent step was to rummage
dried marshmallows out of a drawer, concoct a sort of dismal brew, and inflict a cup upon the
sick woman. Doctor Parsons still tarrying, Will went out of doors, knocked a brick from the
fowl-house wall, brought it in, made it nearly red hot, then wrapped it up in an old rug and
applied it to his parent's feet,--all of which things the sick woman patiently endured.

"You 'm doin' me a power o' gude, dearie," she said, as her discomfort and suffering increased.

Presently Doctor Parsons arrived, checked Will in fantastic experiments with a poultice, and
gave him occupation in a commission to the physician's surgery. When he returned, he heard
that his mother was suffering from a severe chill, but that any definite declaration upon the
case was as yet impossible.

"No cause to be 'feared?" he asked.

"'T is idle to be too sanguine. You know my philosophy. I've seen a scratched finger kill a
man; I've known puny babes wriggle out of Death's hand when I could have sworn it had closed
upon them for good and all. Where there 's life there 's hope."

"Ess, I knaw you," answered Will gloomily; "an' I knaw when you say that you allus mean there
ban't no hope at all."

"No, no. A strong, hale woman like your mother need not give us any fear at present. Sleep
and rest, cheerful faces round her, and no amateur physic. I'll see her to-night and send in
a nurse from the Cottage Hospital at once."

Then it was that Miller Lyddon arrived, and presently Will returned home. He wholly mistook
Phoebe's frantic reception, and assumed that her tears must be flowing for Mrs. Blanchard.

"She'll weather it," he said. "Keep a gude heart. The gal from the hospital ban't coming 'cause
theer 's danger, but 'cause she 'm smart an' vitty 'bout a sick room, an' cheerful as a canary
an' knaws her business. Quick of hand an' light of foot for sartin. Mother'll be all right;
I feel it deep in me she will."

Presently conversation passed to Will himself, and Phoebe expressed a hope this sad event would
turn him from his determination for some time at least.

"What determination?" he asked. "What be talkin' about?"

"The letter you left for faither, and the thing you started to do," she answered.

"'S truth! So I did; an' if the sight o' the smoke an' then hearin' o' mother's trouble didn't
blaw the whole business out of my brain!"

He stood amazed at his own complete forgetfulness.

"Queer, to be sure! But coourse theer weern't room in my mind for anything but mother arter
I seed her stricken down."

During the evening, after final reports from Mrs. Blanchard's sick-room spoke of soothing sleep,
Miller Lyddon sent Billy upon an errand, and discussed Will's position.

"Jan Grimbal 's waited so long," he said, "that maybe he'll wait longer still an' end by doin'
nothin' at all."

"Not him! You judge the man by yourself," declared Will. "But he 's made of very different
metal. I lay he's bidin' till the edge of this be sharp and sure to cut deepest. So like 's
not, when he hears tell mother 's took bad he'll choose that instant moment to have me marched
away."

There was a moment's silence, then Blanchard burst out into a fury bred of sudden thought,
and struck the table heavily with his fist.

"God blast it! I be allus waitin' now for some wan's vengeance! I caan't stand this life no
more. I caan't an' I won't--'t is enough to soften any man's wits."

"Quiet! quiet, caan't 'e?" said the miller, as though he told a dog to lie down. "Theer now!
You've been an' gived me palpitations with your noise. Banging tables won't mend it, nor bad
words neither. This thing hasn't come by chance. You 'm ripening in mind an' larnin' every
day. You mark my word; theer 's a mort o' matters to pick out of this new trouble. An' fust,
patience."

"Patience! If a patient, long-suffering man walks this airth, I be him, I should reckon. I
caan't wait the gude pleasure of that dog, not even for you, Miller."

"'T is discipline, an' sent for the strengthening of your fibre. Providence barred the road
to-day, else you'd be in prison now. Ban't meant you should give yourself up--that's how I
read it."

"'T is cowardly, waitin' an' playin' into his hands; an' if you awnly knawed how this has fouled
my mind wi' evil, an' soured the very taste of what I eat, an' dulled the faace of life, an'
blunted the right feeling in me even for them I love best, you'd never bid me bide on under
it. 'T is rotting me--body an' sawl--that's what 't is doin'. An' now I be come to such a pass
that if I met un to-morrow an' he swore on his dying oath he'd never tell, I shouldn't be contented
even wi' that."

"No such gude fortune," sighed Phoebe.

"'T wouldn't be gude fortune," answered her husband. "I'm like a dirty chamber coated wi' cobwebs
an' them ghostly auld spiders as hangs dead in unsecured corners. Plaaces so left gets worse.
My mind 's all in a ferment, an' 't wouldn't be none the better now if Jan Grimbal broke his
damned neck to-morrow an' took my secret with him. I caan't breathe for it; it 's suffocating me."

Phoebe used subtlety in her answer, and invited him to view the position from her standpoint
rather than his own.

"Think o' me, then, an' t' others. 'T is plain selfishness, this talk, if you looks to the
bottom of it."

"As to that, I doan't say so," began Mr. Lyddon, slowly stuffing his pipe. "No. When a man
goes so deep into his heart as what Will have before me this minute, doan't become no man to
judge un, or tell 'bout selfishness. Us have got to save our awn sawls, an' us must even leave
wife, an' mother, and childer if theer 's no other way to do it. Ban't no right living--ban't
no fair travelling in double harness wi' conscience, onless you've got a clean mind. An' yet
waitin' 'pears the only way o' wisdom just here. You've never got room in that head o' yourn
for more 'n wan thought to a time; an' I doan't blame 'e theer neither, for a chap wi' wan
idea, if he sticks to it, goes further 'n him as drives a team of thoughts half broken in.
I mean you 'm forgettin' your mother for the moment. I should say, wait for her mendin' 'fore
you do anything."

Back came Blanchard's mind to his mother with a whole-hearted swing.

"Ess," he said, "you 'm right theer. My plaace is handy to her till she 'm movin'; an' if he
tries to take me before she 'm down-house again, by God! I'll--"

"Let it bide that way then. Put t' other matter out o' your mind so far as you can. Fill your
pipe an' suck deep at it. I haven't seen 'e smoke this longful time; an' in my view theer 's
no better servant than tobacco to a mind puzzled at wan o' life's cross-roads."

CHAPTER XIII

MR. LYDDON'S TACTICS

In the morning Mrs. Blanchard was worse, and some few days later lay in danger of her life.
Her son spent half his time in the sick-room, walked about bootless to make no sound, and fretted
with impatience at thought of the length of days which must elapse before Chris could return
to Chagford. Telegrams had been sent to Martin Grimbal, who was spending his honeymoon out
of England; but on the most sanguine computation he and his wife would scarcely be home again
in less than ten days or a fortnight.

Hope and gloom succeeded each other swiftly within Will Blanchard's mind, and at first he discounted
the consistent pessimism of Doctor Parsons somewhat more liberally than the issue justified.
When, therefore, he was informed of the truth and stood face to face with his mother's danger,
hope sank, and his unstable spirit was swept from an altitude of secret confidence to the opposite
depth of despair.

Through long silences, while she slept or seemed to do so, the young man traced back his life
and hers; and he began to see what a good mother means. Then he accused himself of many faults
and made impetuous confession to his wife and her father. On these occasions Phoebe softened
his self-blame, but Mr. Lyddon let Will talk, and told him for his consolation that every mother's
son must be accused of like offences.

"Best of childer falls far short," he assured Will; "best brings tu many tears, if 't is awnly
for wantonness; an' him as thinks he've been all he should be to his mother lies to himself;
an' him as says he has, lies to other people."

Will's wild-hawk nature was subdued before this grave crisis in his parent's life; he sat through
long nights and tended the fire with quiet fingers; he learnt from the nurse how to move a
pillow tenderly, how to shut a door without any sound. He wearied Doctor Parsons with futile
propositions, but the physician's simulated cynicism often broke down in secret before this
spectacle of the son's dog-like pertinacity. Blanchard much desired to have a vein opened for
his mother, nor was all the practitioner's eloquence equal to convincing him such a course
could not be pursued.

"She 'm gone that gashly white along o' want o' blood," declared Will; "an' I be busting wi'
gude red blood, an' why for shouldn't you put in a pipe an' draw off a quart or so for her
betterment? I'll swear 't would strengthen the heart of her."

Time passed, and it happened on one occasion, while walking abroad between his vigils, that
Blanchard met John Grimbal. Will had reflected curiously of late days into what ghostly proportions
his affair with the master of the Red House now dwindled before this greater calamity of his
mother's sickness; but sudden sight of the enemy roused passion and threw back the man's mind
to that occasion of their last conversation in the woods.

Yet the first words that now passed were to John Grimbal's credit. He made an astonishing and
unexpected utterance. Indeed, the spoken word surprised him as much as his listener, and he
swore at himself for a fool when Will's retort reached his ear.

They were passing at close quarters,--Blanchard on foot, John upon horseback,--when the latter
said,--

"How 's Mrs. Blanchard to-day?"

"Mind your awn business an' keep our name off your lips!" answered the pedestrian, who misunderstood
the question, as he did most questions where possible, and now supposed that Grimbal meant Phoebe.

His harsh words woke instant wrath.

"What a snarling, cross-bred cur you are! I should judge your own family will be the first
to thank me for putting you under lock and key. Hell to live with, you must be."

"God rot your dirty heart! Do it--do it; doan't jaw--do it! But if you lay a finger 'pon me
while my mother 's bad or have me took before she 'm stirring again, I'll kill you when I come
out. God 's my judge if I doan't!"

Then, forgetting what had taken him out of doors, and upon what matter he was engaged, Will
turned back in a tempest, and hastened to his mother's cottage.

At Monks Barton Mr. Lyddon and his daughter had many and long conversations upon the subject
of Blanchard's difficulties. Both trembled to think what might be the issue if his mother died;
both began to realise that there could be no more happiness for Will until a definite extrication
from his present position was forthcoming. At his daughter's entreaty the miller finally determined
on a strong step. He made up his mind to visit Grimbal at the Red House, and win from him,
if possible, some undertaking which would enable him to relieve his son-in-law of the present
uncertainty.

Phoebe pleaded for silence, and prayed her father to get a promise at any cost in that direction.

"Let him awnly promise 'e never to tell of his free will, an' the door against danger 's shut,"
she said. "When Will knaws Grimbal 's gwaine to be dumb, he'll rage a while, then calm down
an' be hisself again. 'T is the doubt that drove him frantic."

"I'll see the man, then; but not a word to Will's ear. All the fat would be in the fire if
he so much as dreamed I was about any such business. As to a promise, if I can get it I will.
An' 'twixt me an' you, Phoebe, I'm hopeful of it. He 's kept quiet so long that theer caan't
be any fiery hunger 'gainst Will in un just now. I'll soothe un down an' get his word of honour
if it 's to be got. Then your husband can do as he pleases."

"Leave the rest to me, Faither."

A fortnight later the cautious miller, after great and exhaustive reflection, set out to carry
into practice his intention. An appointment was made on the day that Will drove to Moreton
to meet his sister and Martin Grimbal. This removed him out of the way, while Billy had been
despatched to Okehampton for some harness, and Mr. Lyddon's daughter, alone in the secret,
was spending the afternoon with her mother-in-law.

So Miller walked over to the Red House and soon found himself waiting for John Grimbal in a
cheerless but handsome dining-room. The apartment suggested little occupation. A desk stood
in the window, and upon it were half a dozen documents under a paper-weight made from a horse's
hoof. A fire burned in the broad grate; a row of chairs, upholstered in dark red leather, stood
stiffly round; a dozen indifferent oil-paintings of dogs and horses filled large gold frames
upon the walls; and upon a massive sideboard of black oak a few silver cups, won by Grimbal's
dogs at various shows and coursing meetings, were displayed.

Mr. Lyddon found himself kept waiting about ten minutes; then John entered, bade him a cold
"good afternoon" without shaking hands, and placed an easy-chair for him beside the fire.

"Would you object to me lighting my pipe, Jan Grimbal?" asked the miller humbly; and by way
of answer the other took a box of matches from his pocket and handed it to the visitor.

"Thank you, thank you; I'm obliged to you. Let me get a light, then I'll talk to 'e."

He puffed for a minute or two, while Grimbal waited in silence for his guest to begin.

"Now, wi'out any beatin' of the bush or waste of time, I'll speak. I be come 'bout Blanchard,
as I dare say you guessed. The news of what he done nine or ten years ago comed to me just
a month since. A month 't was, or might be three weeks. Like a bolt from the blue it falled
'pon me an' that's a fact. An' I heard how you knawed the thing--you as had such gude cause
to hate un wance."

"'Once?'"

"Well, no man's hate can outlive his reason, surely? I was with 'e, tu, then; but a man what
lets himself suffer lifelong trouble from a fule be a fule himself. Not that Blanchard 's all
fule--far from it. He've ripened a little of late years--though slowly as fruit in a wet summer.
Granted he bested you in the past an' your natural hope an' prayer was to be upsides wi' un
some day. Well, that's all dead an' buried, ban't it? I hated the shadow of un in them days
so bad as ever you did; but you gets to see more of the world, an' the men that walks in it
when you 'm moved away from things by the distance of a few years. Then you find how wan deed
bears upon t' other. Will done no more than you'd 'a' done if the cases was altered. In fact,
you 'm alike at some points, come to think of it."

"Is that what you've walked over here to tell me?"

"No; I'm here to ax 'e frank an' plain, as a sportsman an' a straight man wi' a gude heart
most times, to tell me what you 'm gwaine to do 'bout this job. I'm auld, an' I assure 'e you'll
hate yourself if you give un up. 'T would be outside your carater to do it."

"You say that! Would you harbour a convict from Princetown if you found him hiding on your farm?"

"Ban't a like case. Theer 's the personal point of view, if you onderstand me. A man deserts
from the army ten years ago, an' you, a sort o' amateur soldier, feels 't is your duty to give
un to justice."

"Well, isn't that what has happened?"

"No fay! Nothing of the sort. If 't was your duty, why didn't you do it fust minute you found
it out? If you'd writ to the authorities an' gived the man up fust moment, I might have said
't was a hard deed, but I'd never have dared to say 't weern't just. Awnly you done no such
thing. You nursed the power an' sucked the thought, same as furriners suck at poppy poison.
You played with the picture of revenge against a man you hated, an' let the idea of what you'd
do fill your brain; an' then, when you wanted bigger doses, you told Phoebe what you knawed--reckoning
as she'd tell Will bimebye. That's bad, Jan Grimbal--worse than poisoning foxes, by God! An'
you knaw it."

"Who are you, to judge me and my motives?"

"An auld man, an' wan as be deeply interested in this business. Time was when we thought alike
touching the bwoy; now we doan't; 'cause your knowledge of un hasn't grawed past the point
wheer he downed us, an' mine has."

"You're a fool to say so. D' you think I haven't watched the young brute these many years?
Self-sufficient, ignorant, hot-headed, always in the wrong. What d' you find to praise in the
clown? Look at his life. Failure! failure! failure! and making of enemies at every turn. Where
would he be to-day but for you?"

"Theer 's a rare gert singleness of purpose 'bout un."

"A grand success he is, no doubt. I suppose you couldn't get on without him now. Yet you cursed
the cub freely enough once."

"Bitter speeches won't serve 'e, Grimbal; but they show me mighty clear what's hid in you.
Your sawl 's torn every way by this thing, an' you turn an' turn again to it, like a dog to
his vomit, yet the gude in 'e drags 'e away."

"Better cut all that. You won't tell me what you've come for, so I'll tell you. You want me
to promise not to move in this matter,--is that so?"

"Why, not ezackly. I want more 'n that. I never thought for a minute you would do it, now you've
let the time pass so far. I knaw you'll never act so ugly a paart now; but Will doan 't, an'
he'll never b'lieve me if I told un."

The other made a sound, half growl, half mirthless laugh.

"You've taken it all for granted, then--you, who know more about what 's in my mind than I
do myself? You're a fond old man; and if you'd wanted to screw me up to the pitch of taking
the necessary trouble, you couldn't have gone a better way. I've been too busy to bother about
the young rascal of late or he'd lie in gaol now."

"Doan't say no such vain things! D' you think I caan't read what your face speaks so plain? "The
Basutos'sympathies will be entirely with us, while on the west the garrison of Kimberley will
hold the approaches."

[Sidenote: Reasons.] Tactically, it was pointed out, the Natal route
traversed "an ideal terrain for the Boers," and crossed the "immensely
strong" position of Laing's Nek.

On the other hand, a force advancing by the Free State route, once over the Orange river, would
have only to deal with the Bethulie position, and would then reach
open plains, which "afford the freest scope for the manoeuvres of
all three arms."

[Sidenote: Conclusion.] Furthermore, the Free State route could be fed by three distinct lines
of railway from three ports, while the Natal route would be dependent on a single line and one
port.

The memorandum, therefore, submitted the conclusion that "the main
line of advance against the Transvaal should be based on the Cape
Colony, and should follow generally the line of railway through the
Orange Free State to Johannesburg and Pretoria."

[Sidenote: Natal threatened.] In June it became
evident that the vague designs of the Boer Governments against Natal,
of which the British Intelligence department had had cognizance in
the previous year, were taking definite shape, and that, at any rate,
so far as the Transvaal forces were concerned, the eastern colony
would probably become the main object of their attack.

The only British reinforcements immediately available were therefore
assigned to that colony. On the Cape side it was manifest that the
determining factor was the attitude of restless elements within the
colony itself.

It was known that secret agents from the Transvaal had, during the
past two years, visited many parts of the colony, and that arms had
been distributed by those agents.

The investigations of the Intelligence department had, however, failed to
discover proofs of the establishment of such organisations as would
enable any formidable rising in the colony to coincide with a declaration
of war by the republics. It was fully realised that it could not but be
the case that there would be among many of the Dutch colonial farmers
some natural sympathy with their kinsmen, and that a certain number
of the younger and wilder would possibly slip across the border to
join the enemy's forces; but it was believed that, provided this class
of the community was not encouraged by any sign of weakness to enter
into relations with the republics, they would be, as a whole, loath
to throw off their allegiance to a State to which they and their forefathers
had for many generations been loyal, and under whose rule they had
enjoyed equal liberties, self-government and much prosperity.

[Sidenote: Protective Posts.] If these conclusions were sound-- and
the course of events during the first month of the war was to prove
their general correctness-- it was highly desirable that detachments
of British troops should remain in the northern districts of the colony,
and thus carry out the double function of encouraging the loyal while
checking lawless spirits, and of retaining possession of those lines
of railways, the use of which would be a matter of vital importance
to the field army in its subsequent advance from the coast. You did n't ought, Faither; for I'll have no living
man come between me an' him."

"I made it clear I was on my awn paart," explained Mr. Lyddon; but that night Will wrote a
letter to his enemy and despatched it by a lad before breakfast on the following morning.

     "Sir," he said, "this comes to say that Miller seen you yesterday
     out of his own head, and if I had knowed he was coming I would have
     took good care to prevent it.

     "W. BLANCHARD."

CHAPTER XIV

ACTION

Time passed, and Mrs. Blanchard made a slow return to health. Her daughter assumed control
of the sick-room, and Martin Grimbal was denied the satisfaction of seeing Chris settled in
her future home for a period of nearly two months. Then, when the invalid became sufficiently
restored to leave Chagford for change of air, both Martin and Chris accompanied her and spent
a few weeks by the sea.

Will, meantime, revolved upon his own affairs and suffered torments long drawn out. For these
protracted troubles those of his own house were responsible, and both Phoebe and the miller
greatly erred in their treatment of him at this season. For the woman there were indeed excuses,
but Mr. Lyddon might have been expected to show more wisdom and better knowledge of a character
at all times transparent enough. Phoebe, nearing maternal tribulation, threw a new obstacle
in her husband's way, and implored him by all holy things, now that he had desisted from confession
thus far, to keep his secret yet a little longer and wait for the birth of the child. She used
every possible expedient to win this new undertaking from Will, and her father added his voice
to hers. The miller's expressed wish, strongly urged, frequently repeated, at last triumphed,
and against his own desire and mental promptings, Blanchard, at terrible cost to himself, had
promised patience until June.

Life, thus clouded and choked, wrought havoc with the man. His natural safety-valves were blocked,
his nerves shattered, his temper poisoned. Primitive characteristics appeared as a result of
this position, and he exhibited the ferocity of an over-driven tame beast, or a hunted wild
one. In days long removed from this crisis he looked back with chill of body and shudder of
mind to that nightmare springtime; and he never willingly permitted even those dearest to him
to retrace the period.

The struggle lasted long, but his nature beat Blanchard before the end, burst its bonds, shattered
promises and undertakings, weakened marital love for a while, and set him free by one tremendous
explosion and victory of natural force. There had come into his head of late a new sensation,
as of busy fingers weaving threads within his skull and iron hands moulding the matter of his
brain into new patterns. The demon things responsible for his torment only slept when he slept,
or when, as had happened once or twice, he drank himself indifferent to all mundane matters.
Yet he could not still them for long, and even Phoebe had heard mutterings and threats of the
thread-spinners who were driving her husband mad.

On an evening in late May she became seriously alarmed for his reason. Circumstances suddenly
combined to strangle the last flickering breath of patience in Will, and the slender barriers
were swept away in such a storm as even Phoebe's wide experience of him had never parallelled.
Miller Lyddon was out, at a meeting in the village convened to determine after what fashion
Chagford should celebrate the Sovereign's Jubilee; Billy also departed about private concerns,
and Will and his wife had Monks Barton much to themselves. Even she irritated the suffering
man at this season, and her sunken face and chatter about her own condition and future hopes
of a son often worried him into sheer frenzy. His promise once exacted she rarely touched upon
that matter, believing the less said the better, but he misunderstood her reticence and held
it selfish. Indeed, Blanchard fretted and chafed alone now; for John Grimbal's sustained silence
had long ago convinced Mr. Lyddon that the master of the Red House meant no active harm, and
Phoebe readily grasped at the same conclusion.

This night, however, the flood-gates crumbled, and Will, before a futile assertion from Phoebe
touching the happy promise of the time to come and the cheerful spring weather, dashed down
his pipe with an oath, clenched his hands, then leapt to his feet, shook his head, and strode
about like a maniac.

"Will! You've brawk un to shivers--the butivul wood pipe wi' amber that I gived 'e last birthday!"

"Damn my birthday--a wisht day for me 't was! I've lived tu long--tu long by all my years,
an' nobody cares wan salt tear that I be roastin' in hell-fire afore my time. I caan't stand
it no more--no more at all--not for you or your faither or angels in heaven or ten million
babies to be born into this blasted world--not if I was faither to 'em all. I must live my
life free, or else I'll go in a madhouse. Free--do 'e hear me? I've suffered enough and waited
more 'n enough. Ban't months nor weeks neither--'t is a long, long lifetime. You talk o' time
dragging! If you knawed--if you knawed! An' these devil-spinners allus knotting an' twisting.
I could do things--I could--things man never dreamed. An' I will--for they 'm grawing and grawing,
an' they'll burst my skull if I let 'em bide in it. Months ago I've sat on a fence unbeknawnst
wheer men was shooting, an' whistled for death. So help me, 't is true. Me to do that! Theer
's a cur for 'e; an' yet ban't me neither, but the spinners in my head. Death 's a party easily
called, mind you. A knife, or a pinch o' powder, or a drop o' deep water--they 'll bring un
to your elbow in a moment. Awnly, if I done that, I'd go in company. Nobody should bide to
laugh. Them as would cry might cry, but him as would laugh should come along o' me--he should,
by God!"

"Will, Will! It isn't my Will talking so?"

"It be me, an' it ban't me. But I'm in earnest at last, an' speakin' truth. The spinners knaw,
an' they 'm right. I'm sick to sheer hate o' my life; and you've helped to make me so--you
and your faither likewise. This thing doan't tear your heart out of you an' grind your nerves
to pulp as it should do if you was a true wife."

"Oh, my dear, my lovey, how can 'e say or think it? You knaw what it has been to me."

"I knaw you've thought all wrong 'pon it when you've thought at all. An' Miller, tu. You've
prevailed wi' me to go on livin' a coward's life for countless ages o' time--me--me--creepin'
on the earth wi' my tail between my legs an' knawin' I never set eyes on a man as ban't braver
than myself. An' him--Grimbal--laughing, like the devil he is, to think on what my life must be!"

"I caan't be no quicker. The cheel's movin' an' bracin' itself up an' makin' ready to come
in the world, ban't it? I've told 'e so fifty times. It's little longer to wait."

"It's no longer. It's nearer than sleep or food or drink. It's comin' 'fore the moon sets.
'T is that or the madhouse--nothin' else. If you'd felt the fire as have been eatin' my thinking
paarts o' late days you'd knaw. Ban't no use your cryin', for 't isn't love of me makes you.
Rivers o' tears doan't turn me no more. I'm steel now--fust time for a month--an' while I'm
steel I'll act like steel an' strike like steel. I've had shaky nights an' silly nights an'
haunted nights, but my head 's clear for wance, an' I'll use it while 'tis."

"Not to do no rash thing, Will? For Christ's sake, you won't hurt yourself or any other?"

"I must meet him wance for all."

"He 'm at the council 'bout Jubilee wi' faither an' parson an' the rest."

"But he'll go home arter. An' I'll have 'Yes' or 'No' to-night--I will, if I've got to shake
the word out of his sawl. I ban't gwaine to be driven lunatic for him or you or any. Death's
a sight better than a soft head an' a lifetime o' dirt an' drivelling an' babbling, like the
brainless beasts they feed an' fatten in asylums. That's worse cruelty than any I be gwaine
to suffer at human hands--to be mewed in wan of them gashly mad-holes wi' the rack an' ruins
o' empty flesh grinning an' gibbering 'pon me from all the corners o' the airth. I be sane
now--sane enough to knaw I'm gwaine mad fast--an' I won't suffer it another hour. It's come
crying and howling upon my mind like a storm this night, an' this night I'll end it."

"Wait at least until the morning. See him then."

"Go to bed, an' doan't goad me to more waiting, if you ever loved me. Get to bed--out of my
sight! I've had enough of 'e and of all human things this many days. An' that's as near madness
as I'm gwaine. What I do, I do to-night."

She rose from her chair in sudden anger at his strange harshness, for the wife who has never
heard an unkind word resents with passionate protest the sting of the first when it falls.
Now genuine indignation inflamed Phoebe, and she spoke bitterly.

"'Enough of me'! Ess fay! Like enough you have--a poor, patient creature sweatin' for 'e, an'
thinkin' for 'e, an' blotting her eyes with tears for 'e, an' bearin' your childer an' your
troubles, tu! 'Enough of me.' Ess, I'll get gone to my bed an' stiffen my joints wi' kneelin'
in prayer for 'e, an' weary God's ear for a fule!"

His answer was an action, and before she had done speaking he stretched above him and took
his gun from its place on an old beam that extended across the ceiling.

"What in God's name be that for? You wouldn't--?"

"Shoot a fox? Why not? I'm a farmer now, and I'd kill best auld red Moor fox as ever gave a
field forty minutes an' beat it. You was whinin' 'bout the chicks awnly this marnin'. I'll
sit under the woodstack a bit an' think 'fore I starts. Ban't no gude gwaine yet."

Will's explanation of his deed was the true one, but Phoebe realised in some dim fashion that
she stood within the shadow of a critical night and that action was called upon from her. Her
anger waned a little, and her heart began to beat fast, but she acted with courage and promptitude.

"Let un be to-night--auld fox, I mean. Theer 'm more chicks than young foxes, come to think
of it; an' he 'm awnly doin' what you forget to do--fighting for his vixen an' cubs."

She looked straight into Will's eyes, took the gun out of his hands, climbed on to a chair,
and hung the weapon up again in its place.

He laughed curiously, and helped his wife to the ground again.

"Thank you," she said. "Now go an' do what you want to do, an' doan't forget the future happiness
of women an' childer lies upon it." Her anger was nearly gone, as he spoke again.

"How little you onderstand me arter all these years--an' never will--nobody never will but
mother. What did 'e fear? That I'd draw trigger on the man from behind a tree, p'r'aps?"

"No--not that, but that you might be driven to kill yourself along o' having such a bad wife."

"Now we 'm both on the mad road," he said bitterly. Then he picked up his stick and, a moment
later, went out into the night.

Phoebe watched his tall figure pass over the river, and saw him silhouetted against dead silver
of moonlit waters as he crossed the stepping-stones. Then she climbed for the gun again, hid
it, and presently prepared for her father's return.

"What butivul peace an quiet theer be in ministerin' to a gude faither," she thought, "as compared
wi' servin' a stormy husband!" Then sorrow changed to active fear, and that, in its turn, sank
into a desolate weariness and indifference. She detected no semblance of justice in her husband's
outburst; she failed to see how circumstances must sooner or late have precipitated his revolt;
and she felt herself very cruelly misjudged, very gravely wronged.

Meantime Blanchard passed through a hurricane of rage against his enemy much akin to that formerly
recorded of John Grimbal himself, when the brute won to the top of him and he yearned for physical
conflict. That night Will was resolved to get a definite response or come to some conclusion
by force of arms. His thoughts carried him far, and before he took up his station within the
grounds of the Red House, at a point from which the avenue approach might be controlled, he
had already fallen into a frantic hunger for fight and a hope that his enemy would prove of
like mind. He itched for assault and battery, and his heart clamoured to be clean in his breast
again.

Whatever might happen, he was determined to give himself up on the following day. He had done
all he could for those he loved, but he was powerless to suffer more. He longed now to trample
his foe into the dust, and, that accomplished, he would depart, well satisfied, and receive
what punishment was due. His accumulated wrongs must be paid at last, and he fully determined,
an hour before John Grimbal came homewards, that the payment should be such as he himself had
received long years before on Rushford Bridge. His muscles throbbed for action as he sat and
waited at the top of a sloping bank dotted with hawthorns that extended upwards from the edge
of the avenue and terminated on the fringe of young coverts.

And now, by a chance not uncommon, two separate series of circumstances were about to clash,
while the shock engendered was destined to precipitate the climax of Will Blanchard's fortunes,
in so far as this record is concerned. On the night that he thus raged and suffered the gall
bred of long inaction to overflow, John Grimbal likewise came to a sudden conclusion with himself,
and committed a deed of nature definite so far as it went.

In connection with the approaching Jubilee rejoicings a spirit in some sense martial filled
the air, and Grimbal with his yeomanry was destined to play a part. A transient comet-blaze
of militarism often sparkles over fighting nations at any season of universal joy, and that
more especially if the keystone of the land's constitution be a crown. This fire found material
inflammable enough in the hearts of many Devonshire men, and before its warm impulse John Grimbal,
inspired by a particular occasion, compounded with his soul at last. Rumoured on long tongues
from the village ale-house, there had come to his ears the report of certain ill-considered
utterances made by his enemy upon the events of the hour. Having passed the night patrolling at
some distance from La Délivrande, they had not heard the shot that had alarmed the mayor, but towards
half-past three had heard firing and a loud "Help, help!" in the direction of the junction of the
road from Bayeux with that leading to the sea.

It was now dawn and M. Boullée, reassured by the presence of the two gunners, resolved to go
out and explore the neighbourhood. On the road to Luc, about five hundred yards from his house,
a peasant hailed him, and showed him, behind a hayrick almost on
the edge of the road, the body of a man.

The face had received so many blows as to be almost unrecognisable; the left eye was coming
out of the socket; the hair was black, but very grey on the temples, and the beard thin and short.
The man lay on his back, with a loaded pistol on each side, about two feet from the body; the
blade and sheath of a sword-cane had rolled a little way off, and near them was the broken
butt-end of a double-barrelled gun. On raising the corpse to search the pockets, the hands were
found to be strongly tied behind the back. No papers were found that could give any clue to
his identity, but only a watch, thirty francs in silver, and a little book on the first page
of which was written the name "Duquesnay de Montfiquet."

     

     The growing daylight now made an investigation possible.

     Traces of blood were found on the road to Luc from the place where
     the body lay, to its junction with the road to Bayeux, a distance
     of about two hundred yards. It was evident that the murder had been
     committed at the spot where the two roads met, and that the assassins
     had carried the corpse to the fields and behind the hayrick
     to retard discovery of the crime. The disguised gendarmes whose presence
     had so disturbed the townsfolk had disappeared. A horse struck by
     a ball was lying in a ditch.

     It was raised, and though losing a great deal of blood, walked as
far as the village of Mathieu, on the road to Caen, where it was
stabled.

These facts having been ascertained, M. Boullée's servants and the
peasants whom curiosity had attracted to the spot, escorted the dead
body, which had been put on a wheelbarrow, to La Délivrande.

     It was laid in a barn near the celebrated chapel of pilgrimages, and
there the autopsy took place at five in the afternoon. It was found
that "death was due to a wound made by the blade of the sword-cane;
the weapon, furiously turned in the body, had lacerated the intestines."

     Three balls had, besides, struck the victim, and five buckshot had
hit him full in the face and broken several teeth; of two balls fired
close to the body, one had pierced the chest above the left breast,
and the other had broken the left thigh, and one of the murderers
had struck the face so violently that his gun had broken against the
skull. Now he's hanged himself, as I knew he would,
and I must act. A few days ago he spoke disrespectfully of the Queen before a dozen other loafers
in a public-house. That's a sin I hold far greater than his sin against me. Read what I have
just written."

Martin gazed with mildness upon John's savage and defiant face. His brother's expression and
demeanour by no means chimed with the judicial moderation of his speech. Then the antiquary
perused the letter, and there fell no sound upon the silence, except that of a spluttering
pen as John Grimbal addressed an envelope.

Presently Martin dropped the letter on the desk before him, and his face was very white, his
voice tremulous as he spoke.

"This thing happened more than ten years ago."

"It did; but don't imagine I have known it ten years."

"God forbid! I think better of you. Yet, if only for my sake, reflect before you send this
letter. Once done, you have ruined a life. I have seen Will several times since I came home,
and now I understand the terrific change in him. He must have known that you know this. It
was the last straw. He seems quite broken on the wheel of the world, and no wonder. To one
of his nature, the past, since you discovered this terrible secret, must have been sheer torment."

John Grimbal doubled up the letter and thrust it into the envelope, while Martin continued:

"What do you reap? You're not a man to do an action of this sort and live afterwards as though
you had not done it. I warn you, you intend a terribly dangerous thing. This may be the wreck
of another soul besides Blanchard's. I know your real nature, though you've hidden it so close
of late years. Post that letter, and your life's bitter for all time. Look into your heart,
and don't pretend to deceive yourself."

His brother lighted a match, burnt red wax, and sealed the letter with a signet ring.

"Duty is duty," he said.

"Yes, yes; right shall be done and this extraordinary thing made known in the right quarter.
But don't let it come out through you; don't darken your future by such an act. Your personal
relations with the man, John,--it's impossible you should do this after all these years."

The other affixed a stamp to his letter.

"Don't imagine personal considerations influence me. I'm a soldier, and I know what becomes
a soldier. If I find a traitor to his Queen and country am I to pass upon the other side of
the road and not do my duty because the individual happens to be a private enemy? You rate
me low and misjudge me rather cruelly if you imagine that I am so weak."

Martin gasped at this view of the position, instantly believed himself mistaken, and took John
at his word. Thereon he came near blushing to think that he should have read such baseness
into a brother's character.

"I beg your pardon," he said. "I ought to be ashamed to have misunderstood you so. I could
not escape the personal factor in this terrible business, but you, I see, have duly weighed
it. I wronged you. Yes, I wronged you, as you say. The writing of that letter was a very courageous
action, under the circumstances--as plucky a thing as ever man did, perhaps. Forgive me for
taking so mean a view of it, and forgive me for even doubting your motives."

"I want justice, and if I am misunderstood for doing my duty--why, that is no new thing. I
can face that, as better men have done before me."

There was a moment or two of silence; then Martin spoke, almost joyfully.

"Thank God, I see a way out! It seldom happens that I am quick in any question of human actions,
but for once, I detect a road by which right may be done and you still spared this terrible
task. I do, indeed, because I know Blanchard better than you do. I can guess what he has been
enduring of late, and I will show him how he may end the torture himself by doing the right
thing even now."

"It's fear of me scorching the man, not shame of his own crime."

"Then, as the stronger, as a soldier, put him out of his misery and set your mind at ease.
Believe me, you may do it without any reflection on yourself. Tell him you have decided to
take no step in the affair, and leave the rest to me. I will wager I can prevail upon him to
give himself up. I am singularly confident that I can bring it about. Then, if I fail, do what
you consider to be right; but first give me leave to try and save you from this painful necessity."

There followed a long silence. John Grimbal saw how much easier it was to deceive another than
himself, and, before the spectacle of his deluded brother, felt that he appreciated his own
real motives and incentives at their true worth. The more completely was Martin hoodwinked,
the more apparent did the truth grow within John's mind. What was in reality responsible for
his intended action never looked clearer than then, and as Martin spoke in all innocence of
the courage that must be necessary to perform such a deed, Grimbal passed through the flash
of a white light and caught a glimpse of his recent mental processes magnified by many degrees
in the blinding ray. The spectacle sickened him a little, weakened him, touched the depths
of him, stirred his nature. He answered presently in a voice harsh, abrupt, and deep.

"I've lied often enough in my life," he said, "and may again, but I think never to you till
to-day. You're such a clean-minded, big-hearted man that you don't understand a mind of my
build--a mind that can't forgive, that can't forget, that's fed full for years on the thought
of revenging that frightful blow in the past. What you feared and hinted just now was partly
the truth, and I know it well enough. But that is only to say my motives in this matter mixed."

"None but a brave man would admit so mucn, but now you wrong yourself, as I wronged you. We
are alike. I, too, have sometimes in dark moments blamed myself for evil thoughts and evil
deeds beyond my real deserts. So you. I know nothing but your sense of duty would make you
post that letter."

"We've wrecked each other's lives, he and I; only he's a boy, and his life's before him; I'm
a man, and my life is lived, for I'm the sort that grows old early, and he's helped Time more
than anybody knows but myself."

"Don't say that. Happiness never comes when you are hungering most for it; sorrow never when
you believe yourself best tuned to bear it. Once I thought as you do now. I waited long for
my good fortune, and said 'good-by' to all my hope of earthly delight."

"You were easier to satisfy than I should have been. Yet you were constant, too,--constant
as I was. We're built that way. More's the pity."

"I have absolutely priceless blessings; my cup of happiness is full. Sometimes I ask myself
how it comes about that one so little deserving has received so much; sometimes I waken in
the very extremity of fear, for joy like mine seems greater than any living thing has a right to."

"I'm glad one of us is happy."

"I shall live to see you equally blessed."

"It is impossible."

There was a pause, then a gong rumbled in the hall, and the brothers went to dinner. Their
conversation now ranged upon varied local topics, and it was not until the cloth had been removed
according to old-fashioned custom, and fruit and wine set upon a shining table, that John returned
to the crucial subject of the moment.

He poured out a glass of port for Martin, and pushed the cigars towards him, then spoke,--

"Drink. It's very good. And try one of those. I shall not post that letter."

"Man, I knew it! I knew it well, without hearing so from you. Destroy the thing, dear fellow,
and so take the first step to a peace I fear you have not known for many days. All this suffering
will vanish quicker than a dream then. Justice is great, but mercy is greater. Yours is the
privilege of mercy, and yet justice shall not suffer either--not if I know Will Blanchard."

They talked long and drank more than usual, while the elder man's grim and moody spirit lightened
a little before his determination and his wine. The reek of past passions, the wreckage of
dead things, seemed to be sweeping out of his mind. He forgot the hour and their engagement
until the time fixed for that conference was past. Then he looked at his watch, rose from the
table, and hurried to the hall.

"Let us not go," urged Martin. "They will do very well without us, I am sure."

But John's only answer was to pull on his driving gloves. He anticipated some satisfaction
from the committee meeting; he suspected, indeed, that he would be asked to take the chair
at it, and, like most men, he was not averse to the exercise of a little power in a small corner.

"We must go," he said. "I have important suggestions to make, especially concerning the volunteers.
A sham fight on Scorhill would be a happy thought. We'll drive fast, and only be twenty minutes
late."

A dog-cart had been waiting half an hour, and soon the brothers quickly whirled down Red House
avenue. A groom dropped from behind and opened the gate; then it was all his agility could
accomplish to scramble into his seat again as a fine horse, swinging along at twenty miles
an hour, trotted towards Chagford.

CHAPTER XV

A BATTLE

Silent and motionless sat Blanchard, on the fringe of a bank at the coppice edge. He watched
the stars move onward and the shadows cast by moonlight creep from west to north, from north
to east. Hawthorn scented the night and stood like masses of virgin silver under the moon;
from the Red House 'owl tree'--a pollarded elm, sacred to the wise bird--came mewing of brown
owls; and once a white one struck, swift as a streak of feathered moonlight, on the copse edge,
and passed so near to Blanchard that he saw the wretched shrew-mouse in its talons. "'Tis for
the young birds somewheers," he thought; "an' so they'll thrive an' turn out braave owlets
come bimebye; but the li'l, squeakin', blind shrews, what'll they do when no mother comes home-along
to 'em?"

He mused drearily upon this theme, but suddenly started, for there came the echo of slow steps
in the underwood behind him. They sank into silence and set Will wondering as to what they
might mean. Then another sound, that of a galloping horse and the crisp ring of wheels, reached
him, and, believing that John Grimbal was come, he strung himself to the matter in hand. But
the vehicle did not stop. A flash of yellow light leapt through the distance as a mail-cart
rattled past upon its way to Moreton. This circumstance told Will the hour and he knew that
his vigil could not be much longer protracted.

Then death stalked abroad again, but this time in a form that awoke the watcher's deep-rooted
instincts, took him clean out of himself, and angered him to passion, not in his own cause
but another's. There came the sudden scream of a trapped hare,--that sound where terror and
agony mingle in a cry half human,--and so still was the hour that Blanchard heard the beast's
struggles though it was fifty yards distant. A hare in a trap at any season meant a poacher--a
hated enemy of society in Blanchard's mind; and his instant thought was to bring the rascal
to justice if he could. Now the recent footfall was explained and Will doubted not that the
cruel cry which had scattered his reveries would quickly attract some hidden man responsible
for it. The hare was caught by a wire set in a run at the edge of the wood, and now Blanchard
crawled along on his stomach to within ten yards of the tragedy, and there waited under the
shadow of a white-thorn at the edge of the woods. Within two minutes the bushes parted and,
where the foliage of a young silver birch showered above lesser brushwood, a man with a small
head and huge shoulders appeared. Seeing no danger he crept into the open, lifted his head
to the moon, and revealed the person and features of Sam Bonus, the labourer with whom Will
had quarrelled in times long past. Here, then, right ahead of him, appeared such a battle as
Blanchard had desired, but with another foe than he anticipated. That accident mattered nothing,
however. Will only saw a poacher, and to settle the business of such an one out of hand if
possible was, in his judgment, a definite duty to be undertaken by every true man at any moment
when opportunity offered.

He walked suddenly from shadow and stood within three yards of the robber as Bonus raised the
butt of his gun to kill the shrieking beast at his feet.

"You! An' red-handed, by God! I knawed 't was no lies they told of 'e."

The other started and turned and saw who stood against him.

"Blanchard, is it? An' what be you doin' here? Come for same reason, p'r'aps?"

"I'd make you pay, if 't was awnly for sayin' that! I'm a man to steal others' fur out of season,
ban't I? But I doan't have no words wi' the likes o' you. I've took you fair an' square, anyways,
an' will just ax if you be comin' wi'out a fuss, or am I to make 'e?"

The other snarled.

"You--you come a yard nearer an' I'll blaw your damned head--"

But the threat was left unfinished, and its execution failed, for Will had been taught to take
an armed man in his early days on the river, and had seen an old hand capture more than one
desperate character. He knew that instantaneous action might get him within the muzzle of the
gun and out of danger, and while Bonus spoke, he flew straight upon him with such unexpected
celerity that Sam had no time to accomplish his purpose. He came down heavily with Blanchard
on top of him, and his weapon fell from his hand. But the poacher was not done with. As they
lay struggling, he found his foot clear and managed to kick Will twice on the leg above the
knee. Then Blanchard, hanging like a dog to his foe, freed an arm, and hit hard more than once
into Sam's face. A blow on the nose brought red blood that spurted over both men black as ink
under the moonlight.

It was not long before they broke away and rose from their first struggle on the ground, but
Bonus finally got to his knees, then to his feet, and Will, as he did the same, knew by a sudden
twinge in his leg that if the poacher made off it must now be beyond his power to follow.

"No odds," he gasped, answering his thought aloud, while they wrestled. "If you've brawk me
somewheers 't is no matter, for you 'm marked all right, an' them squinting eyes of yourn'll
be blacker 'n sloes come marnin'."

This obvious truth infuriated Bonus. He did not attempt to depart, but, catching sight of his
gun, made a tremendous effort to reach it. The other saw this aim and exerted his strength
in an opposite direction. They fought in silence awhile--growled and cursed, sweated and swayed,
stamped and slipped and dripped blood under the dewy and hawthorn-scented night. Bonus used
all his strength to reach the gun; Will sacrificed everything to his hold. He suffered the
greater punishment for a while, because Sam fought with all his limbs, like a beast; but presently
Blanchard threw the poacher heavily, and again they came down together, this time almost on
the wretched beast that still struggled, held by the wire at hand. It had dragged the fur off
its leg, and white nerve fibres, torn bare, glimmered in the red flesh under the moon.

Both fighters were now growing weaker, and each knew that a few minutes more must decide the
fortune of the battle. Bonus still fought for the gun, and now his weight began to tell. Then,
as he got within reach, and stretched hand to grasp it, Blanchard, instead of dragging against
him, threw all his force in the same direction, and Sam was shot clean over the gun. This time
they twisted and Will fell underneath. Both simultaneously thrust a hand for the weapon; both
gripped it, and then exerted their strength for possession. Will meant using it as a club if
fate was kind; the other man, rating his own life at nothing, and, believing that he bore Blanchard
the grudge of his own ruin, intended, at that red-hot moment, to keep his word and blow the
other's brains out if he got a chance to do so.

Then, unheard by the combatants, a distant gate was thrown open, two brilliant yellow discs
of fire shone along the avenue below, and John Grimbal returned to his home. Suddenly, seeing
figures fighting furiously on the edge of the hill not fifty yards away, he pulled up, and
a din of conflict sounded in his ears as the rattle of hoof and wheel and harness ceased. Leaping
down he ran to the scene of the conflict as fast as possible, but it was ended before he arrived.
A gun suddenly exploded and flashed a red-hot tongue of flame across the night. A hundred echoes
caught the detonation and as the discharge reverberated along the stony hills to Fingle Gorge,
Will Blanchard staggered backwards and fell in a heap, while the poacher reeled, then steadied
himself, and vanished under the woods.

"Bring a lamp," shouted Grimbal, and a moment later his groom obeyed; but the fallen man was
sitting up by the time John reached him, and the gun that had exploded was at his feet.

"You 'm tu late by half a second," he gasped. "I fired myself when I seed the muzzle clear.
Poachin' he was, but the man 's marked all right. Send p'liceman for Sam Bonus to-morrer, an'
I lay you'll find a picter."

"Blanchard!"

"Ess fay, an' no harm done 'cept a stiff leg. Best to knock thicky poor twoad on the head.
I heard the scream of un and comed along an' waited an' catched my gen'leman in the act."

The groom held a light to the mangled hare.

"Scat it on the head," said Will, "then give me a hand."

He was helped to his feet; the servant went on before with the lamp, and Blanchard, finding
himself able to walk without difficulty, proceeded, slowly supporting himself by the poacher's gun.

Grimbal waited for him to speak and presently he did so.

"Things falls out so different in this maze of a world from what man may count on."

"How came it that you were here?"

"Blamed if I can tell 'e till I gather my wits together. 'Pears half a century or so since
I comed; yet ban't above two hour agone."

"You didn't come to see Sam Bonus, I suppose?"

"No fay! Never a man farther from my thought than him when I seed un poke up his carrot head
under the moon. I was 'pon my awn affairs an' comed to see you. I wanted straight speech an'
straight hitting; an' I got 'em, for that matter. An' fightin' 's gude for the blood, I reckon--anyway
for my fashion blood."

"You came to fight me, then?"

"I did--if I could make 'e fight."

"With that gun?"

"With nought but a savage heart an' my two fistes. The gun belongs to Sam Bonus. Leastways
it did, but 't is mine now--or yours, as the party most wronged."

"Come this way and drink a drop of brandy before you go home. Glad you had some fighting as
you wanted it so bad. I know what it feels like to be that way, too. But there wouldn't have
been blows between us. My mind was made up. I wrote to Plymouth this afternoon. I wrote, and
an hour later decided not to post the letter. I've changed my intentions altogether, because
the point begins to appear in a new light. I'm sorry for a good few things that have happened
of late years."

Will breathed hard a moment; then he spoke slowly and not without more emotion than his words
indicated.

"That's straight speech--if you mean it. I never knawed how 't was that a sportsman, same as
you be, could keep rakin' awver a job an' drive a plain chap o' the soil like me into hell
for what I done ten year agone."

"Let the past go. Forget it; banish it for all time as far as you have the power. Blame must
be buried both sides. Here's the letter upon my desk. I'll burn it, and I'll try to burn the
memory often years with it. Your road's clear for me."

"Thank you," said Blanchard, very slowly. "I lay I'll never hear no better news than that on
this airth. Now I'm free--free to do how I please, free to do it undriven."

There was a long silence. Grimbal poured out half a tumbler of brandy, added soda water, then
handed the stimulant to Will; and Blauchard, after drinking, sat in comfort a while, rubbed
his swollen jaw, and scraped the dried blood of Bonus off his hands.

"Why for did you chaange so sudden?" he asked, as Grimbal turned to his desk.

"I could tell you, but it doesn't matter. A letter in the mind looks different to one on paper;
and duty often changes its appearance, too, when a man is honest with himself. To be honest
with yourself is the hardest sort of honesty. I've had speech with others about this--my brother
more particularly."

"I wish to God us could have settled it without no help from outside."

Grimbal rang the bell, then answered.

"As to settling it, I know nothing about that. I've settled with my own conscience--such as it is."

"I'd come for 'Yes' or 'No.'"

"Now you have a definite answer."

"An' thank you. Then what 's it to be between us, when I come back? May I ax that? Them as
ban't enemies no more might grow to be friends--eh?"

What response Grimbal would have made is doubtful. He did not reply, for his servant, Lawrence
Vallack, entered at the moment, and he turned abruptly upon the old man.

"Where 's the letter I left upon my desk? It was directed to Plymouth."

"All right, sir, all right; don't worrit. I've eyes in my head for my betters still, thank
God. I seed un when I come to shut the shutters an' sent Joe post-haste to the box. 'T was
in plenty of time for the mail."

John emptied his lungs in a great respiration, half-sigh, half-groan. He could not speak. Only
his fingers closed and he half lifted his hand as though to crush the smirking ancient. Then
he dropped his arm and looked at Blanchard, asking the question with his eyes that he could
find no words for.

"I heard the mail go just 'fore the hare squealed," said Will stolidly, "an' the letter with
it for certain."

Grimbal started up and rushed to the hall while the other limped after him.

"Doan't 'e do nothin' fulish. I believe you never meant to post un. Ess, I'll take your solemn
word for that. An' if you didn't mean to send letter, 't is as if you hadn't sent un. For my
mind weer fixed, whatever you might do."

"Don't jaw, now! There 's time to stop the mail yet. I can get to Moreton as soon or sooner
than that crawling cart if I ride. I won't be fooled like this!"

He ran to the stables, called to the groom, clapped a saddle on the horse that had just brought
him home, and in about three minutes was riding down the avenue, while his lad reached the
gate and swung it open just in time. Then Grimbal galloped into the night, with heart and soul
fixed upon his letter. He meant to recover it at any reasonable cost. The white road streaked
away beneath him, and a breeze created by his own rapid progress steadied him as he hastened
on. Presently at a hill-foot, he saw how to save a mile or more by short cuts over meadow-land,
so left the highway, rode through a hayfield, and dashed from it by a gap into a second. Then
he grunted and the sound was one of satisfaction, for his tremendous rate of progress had served
its object and already, creeping on the main road far ahead, he saw the vehicle which held
the mail.

Meanwhile Blanchard and the man-servant stood and watched John Grimbal's furious departure.

"Pity," said Will. "No call to do it. I've took his word, an' the end 's the same, letter or
no letter. Now let me finish that theer brandy, then I'll go home."

But Mr. Vallack heard nothing. He was gazing out into the night and shaking with fear.

"High treason 'gainst the law of the land to lay a finger on the mail. A letter posted be like
a stone flinged or a word spoken--out of our keeping for all time. An' me to blame for it.
I'm a ruined man along o' taking tu much 'pon myself an' being tu eager for others. He'll fling
me out, sure 's death. 'T is all up wi' me."

"As to that, I reckon many a dog gets a kick wheer he thinks he 's earned a pat," said Will;
"that's life, that is. An' maybe theer's sore hearts in dumb beasts, tu, sometimes, for a dog
loves praise like a woman. He won't sack 'e. You done what 'peared your duty."

Blanchard then left the house, slowly proceeded along the avenue and presently passed out on
to the highroad. As he walked the pain of his leg diminished, but he put no strain upon it
and proceeded very leisurely towards home. Great happiness broke into his mind, undimmed by
aching bones and bruises. The reflection that he was reconciled to John Grimbal crowded out
lesser thoughts. He knew the other had spoken truth, and accepted his headlong flight to arrest
the mail as sufficient proof of it. Then he thought of the possibility of giving himself up
before Grimbal's letter should come to be read.

At home Phoebe was lying awake in misery waiting for him. She had brought up to their bedroom
a great plate of cold bacon with vegetables and a pint of beer; and as Will slowly appeared
she uttered a cry and embraced him with thanksgivings. Upon Blanchard's mind the return to
his wife impressed various strange thoughts. He soothed her, comforted her, and assured her
of his safety. But to him it seemed that he spoke with a stranger, for half a century of experience
appeared to stretch between the present and his departure from Monks Barton about three hours
before. His wife experienced similar sensations. That this cheerful, battered, hungry man could
be the same who had stormed from her into the night a few short hours before, appeared impossible.

CHAPTER XVI

A PAIR OF HANDCUFFS

Mr. Blee, to do him justice, was usually the first afoot at Monks Barton, both winter and summer.
The maids who slept near him needed no alarum, for his step on the stair and his high-pitched
summons, "Now then, you lazy gals, what be snorin' theer for, an' the day broke?" was always
sufficient to ensure their wakening.

At an early hour of the morning that dawned upon Will's nocturnal adventures, Billy stood in
the farmyard and surveyed the shining river to an accompaniment of many musical sounds. On
Monks Barton thatches the pigeons cooed and bowed and gurgled to their ladies, cows lowed from
the byres, cocks crew, and the mill-wheel, already launched upon the business of the day, panted
from its dark habitation of dripping moss and fern. 

Now, as in every war we carry out abroad, the earliest time at which any armed force can move towards
its object is the hour when the ships are ready to convey it, it
follows that no delay whatever was caused by the necessity for summoning
to the colours trained men retained for service by a small fee.

On the other hand very great delay was caused by the impossibility of preparing for the particular
campaign without threatening those whom we desired to conciliate.

It, therefore, further follows that if there were ready at all times a force which did not
need to be ostentatiously prepared, we should avoid the crux of not
being able to make war without preparing for it and of not being able
to prepare lest we should provoke war.

On the other hand, this instance admirably illustrates the invariable
law that the strength that can be so used is strictly limited by the
number of properly fitted ships that the Admiralty can have ready
at any given moment.

An examination of Captain Limpus'careful statement will show how
very small this inevitably is, and how much time is needed to fit
those that are not available.

Moreover, there is, on the Army side, as has been shown in Chapter V., this further restriction,
that the equipment and transport, without which a campaign cannot be carried on, must be of the
kind suited to the particular case.

SECTION III. THE WORK OF THE NAVY.

THE STOPPAGE OF CONTRABAND.

The task of the Navy in this matter lay so entirely outside the sphere
of the military operations on land that it will be sufficient to say
here that, despite the extreme delicacy of the situation created by
the fact that it was only through neutral ports that the Boers could
obtain supplies after the war had begun, the vigilance exercised was
remarkably effective.

The amount of contraband which reached the enemy was insignificant, yet very few claims for
compensation were successfully sustained by neutrals.

Ordinary trade, through Lourenço Marques, including, unfortunately,
British trade, was uninterrupted till, towards the end of 1900, in
consequence of the progress of the war, it died a natural death.

In their careful watching of the coast and river-mouths the sailors, under Captain W. B. Fisher,
of the Magicienne, had some trying experiences.

Lieut. Massy Dawson, of the Forte, and Lieut. H. S. Leckie, of H. M. S. Widgeon, who received
the Albert medal, did most gallant service.

SECTION IV.

THE ASSISTANCE OF THE NAVY ON SHORE.

[Sidenote: The Navy on shore.] This is incorporated in the accounts
of the several campaigns and battles, but there were certain preparations
made beforehand on board-ship which must here be recorded.

During a cruise up the east coast in the month of July, 1899, Admiral
Harris, the Naval Commander-in-Chief, was convinced that there would be war
and that the Boers were only waiting till the grass was in fit condition
for their cattle, to invade the colonies.

He therefore took steps to have all the ships ready for service. He concentrated
the fleet within easy reach of call. Early in October he sent to the
G. O. C. at the Cape a list of small guns, etc., which he could furnish
if needful. He was then told that it was not anticipated that such
assistance would be necessary.

Nevertheless, a Naval brigade of 500 men was exercised and prepared
for landing.

When the ultimatum was delivered it was clear enough that the troops were not in adequate strength
to resist the forces the Boers could place against them, and that the enemy were bringing into the
field guns of unusual calibre and range. The utmost numbers which it was possible to land were
about 2,500, but heavy guns were the very weapons with which the
sailors were most familiar.

It seemed likely that these might prove to be of great value. On September 19th, the Admiral
was informed that the Terrible, which was to have relieved the Powerful,
viâ the Canal, would, instead, meet her on her voyage home at the Cape.
On the 14th October the Terrible reached Simon's Bay.

By October 21st, Captain Scott, her commanding officer, had devised a field mounting for a long-range
12-pr. and, having put it through a satisfactory firing trial, was
authorised by the Commander-in-Chief to make several more.

"Handcuffed he'll be, whether he likes it or not," answered the other; "an' if theer's trouble,
I bid all present an' any able-bodied men 'pon the premises to help me take him in the Queen's
name."

Billy hobbled round the corner, thrust two fingers into his mouth, and blew a quavering whistle;
whereupon two labourers, working a few hundred yards off, immediately dropped their tools and
joined him.

"Run you here," he cried. "P'lice be corned to taake Will Blanchard, an' us must all give the
Law a hand, for theer'll be blows struck if I knaw un."

"Will Blanchard! What have he done?"

"Been under a alias--that's the least of it, but--God, He knaws--it may rise to murder. 'T
is our bounden duty to help Chown against un."

"Be danged if I do!" said one of the men.

"Nor me," declared the other. "Let Chown do his job hisself--an' get his jaw broke for his
trouble."

But they followed Mr. Blee to where the miller still argued against Lamacraft's entrance.

"Why didn't they send soldiers for un? That's what he reckoned on," said Mr. Lyddon.

"'T is my job fust."

"I'm sorry you've come in this high spirit. You knaw the man and ought to taake his word he'd
go quiet and my guarantee for it."

"I knaw my duty, an' doan't want no teachin' from you."

"You're a fule!" said Miller, in some anger. "An' 't will take more 'n you an' that moon-faced
lout to put them things on the man, or I'm much mistaken."

He went indoors while the labourers laughed, and the younger constable blushed at the insult.

"How do 'e like that, Peter Lamacraft?" asked a labourer.

"No odds to me," answered the policeman, licking his hands nervously and looking at the door.
"I ban't feared of nought said or done if I've got the Law behind me. An' you'm liable yourself
if you doan't help."

"Caan't wait no more," declared Mr. Chown. "If he's in bed, us'll take un in bed. Come on, you!"

Thus ordered to proceed, Lamacraft set his face resolutely forward and was just entering the
farm when Phoebe appeared. Her tears were dry, though her voice was unsteady and her eyelids red.

"Gude mornin', Mr. Chown," she said.

"Marnin', ma'am. Let us pass, if you please."

"Are you coming in? Why?"

"Us caan't bide no more, an' us caan't give no more reasons. The Law ban't 'spected to give
reasons for its deeds, an' us won't be bamboozled an' put off a minute longer," answered Chown
grimly. "March, I tell 'e, Peter Lamacraft."

"You caan't see my husband."

"But we'm gwaine to see un. He've got to see me, an' come along wi' me, tu. An' if he's wise,
he'll come quiet an' keep his mouth shut. That much I'll tell un for his gude."

"If you'll listen, I might make you onderstand how 'tis you caan't see Will," said Phoebe quietly.
"You must knaw he runned away an' went soldiering before he married me. Then he comed back
for love of me wi'out axin' any man's leave."

"So much the worse, ma'am; he'm a desarter!"

"The dark wickedness!" gasped Mr. Blee; "an' him dumb as a newt 'bout it all these years an'
years! The conscience of un!"

"Well, you needn't trouble any more," continued Phoebe to the policemen. "My husband be gwaine
to take this matter into his awn hands now."

Inspector Chown laughed.

"That's gude, that is!--now he 'm blawn upon!"

"He 's gwaine to give himself up--he caan't do more," said Phoebe, turning to her father who
now reappeared.

"Coourse he caan't do more. What more do 'e want?" the miller inquired.

"Him," answered Mr. Chown. "No more an' no less; an' everything said will be used against him."

"You glumpy auld Dowl!" growled a labouring man.

"All right, all right. You just wait, all of 'e! Wheer's the man? How much longer be I to bide
his pleasure? March! Damn it all! be the Law a laughing-stock?" The Inspector was growing very
hot and excited.

"He's gone," said Phoebe, as Mr. Lamacraft entered the farm, put one foot on the bottom step
of the stairs, then turned for further orders. "He's gone, before light. He rested two hours
or so, then us harnessed the trap an' he drove away to Moreton to take fust train to Plymouth
by way o' Newton Abbot. An' he said as Ted Chown was to go in arter breakfast an' drive the
trap home."

"Couldn't tell me nothin' as had pleased me better," said the miller. "'T is a weight off me--an'
off him I reckon. Now you 'm answered, my son; you can telegraph back as you corned wi' your
auld handcuffs tu late by hours, an' that the man's on his way to give hisself up."

"I've only got your word for it."

"An' what better word should 'e have?" piped Billy, who in the space of half a minute had ranged
himself alongside his master. "You to question the word o' Miller Lyddon, you crooked-hearted
raven! Who was it spoke for 'e fifteen year ago an' got 'em to make 'e p'liceman 'cause you
was tu big a fule to larn any other trade? Gert, thankless twoad! An' who was it let 'em keep
the 'Green Man' awpen two nights in wan week arter closin' time, 'cause he wanted another drop
hisself?"

"Come you away," said the Inspector to his constable. "Ban't for the likes of we to have any
talk wi' the likes o' they. But they'll hear more of this; an' if theer's been any hookem-snivey
dealin's with the Law, they'll live to be sorry. An' you follow me likewise," he added to his
son, who stood hard by. "You come wi' me, Ted, for you doan't do no more work for runaway soldiers,
nor yet bald-headed auld antics like this here!"

He pointed to Mr. Blee, then turned to depart.

"Get off honest man's land, you black-bearded beast!" screamed Billy. After a brief halt they
went on into the town, which they entered at 6 a. m. The other regiments, with the transport
which had delayed them, coming up to Coxhead between 7 a. m. and
8 a. m., halted for two hours, and had breakfast before pushing on.

[Sidenote: Cause of Rietfontein action, Oct. 24th.] It is necessary
now to revert to the action which had, on October 24th, been heard
in the bivouac by the Waschbank, that action of which a ride of nine
miles westward had failed to disclose either the purport or the scene.

The arrival on the 23rd of Free State commandos upon the heights north and west of the railway had
redoubled Sir G. White's already great anxiety for the safety of the retreat from Dundee. In
reality, the presence of the Free State forces on the commanding
ranges to the west of Elandslaagte was less dangerous than it appeared,
for Yule was marching in greater obscurity than either he, or Sir
G. White, imagined.

When, indeed, on the morning of the 24th, the Free Staters saw troops issuing from Ladysmith,
they believed them to be the combined forces of Generals White and Yule, [104] though the latter
was at the moment still actually upon the wrong side of the Waschbank. At still greater cross-purposes
was Erasmus, who set off on the morning of the 24th, with so little hope
of overtaking the retreat that he chose the only route by which it
was impossible for him to do so, the main road west of the railway.

Nevertheless, on the evening of the 25th, Erasmus'bivouac was near Elandslaagte,
and the wisdom of Sir G. White's order for the instant continuance of
the march of the column on that afternoon was manifested. His horse was shot, John Grimbal carried
home with all despatch, and Doctor Parsons arrived as quickly as possible, to do all that might
be done for the sufferer until an abler physician than himself reached the scene.

Three dreary days saw Grimbal at the door of death, then a brief interval of consciousness
rewarded unceasing care, and a rumour spread that he might yet survive. Martin, when immediate
fear for his brother's life was relieved, busied himself about Blanchard, and went to Plymouth.
There he saw Will, learned all facts concerning the letter, and did his best to win information
of the prisoner's probable punishment. Fears, magnified rumours, expressed opinions, mostly
erroneous, buzzed in the ears of the anxious party at Monks Barton. Then Martin Grimbal returned
to Chagford and there came an evening when those most interested met after supper at the farm
to hear all he could tell them.

Long faces grouped round Martin as he made his statement in a grey June twilight. Mr. Blee
and the miller smoked, Mrs. Blanchard sat with her hand in her daughter's, and Phoebe occupied
a comfortable arm-chair by the wood fire. Between intervals of long silence came loud, juicy,
sounds from Billy's pipe, and when light waned they still talked on until Chris stirred herself
and sought the lamp.

"They tell me," began Martin, "that a deserting soldier is punished according to his character
and with regard to the fact whether he surrenders himself or is apprehended. Of course we know
Will gave himself up, but then they will find out that he knew poor John's unfortunate letter
had reached its destination--or at any rate started for it; and they may argue, not knowing
the truth, that it was the fact of the information being finally despatched made Will surrender.
They will say, I am afraid, as they said to me: 'Why did he wait until now if he meant to do
the right thing? Why did he not give himself up long ago?'"

"That's easy answered: to please others," explained Mr. Lyddon. "Fust theer was his promise
to Phoebe, then his mother's illness, then his other promise, to bide till his wife was brought
to bed. Looking back I see we was wrong to use our power against his awn wish; but so it stands."

"I ought to go; I ought to be alongside un," moaned Phoebe; "I was at the bottom of everything
from fust to last. For me he run away; for me he stopped away. Mine's the blame, an' them as
judge him should knaw it an' hear me say so."

"Caan't do no such vain thing as that," declared Mr. Blee. "'T was never allowed as a wife
should be heard 'pon the doin's of her awn husband. 'Cause why? She'd be one-sided--either
plump for un through thick an' thin, or else all against un, as the case might stand."

"As to the sentence," continued Martin, "if a man with a good character deserts and thinks
better of it and goes back to his regiment, he is not as a rule tried by court-martial at all.
Instead, he loses all his former service and has to begin to reckon his period of engagement--six
or seven years perhaps--all over again. But a notoriously bad character is tried by court-martial
in any case, whether he gives himself up or not; and he gets a punishment according to the
badness of his past record. Such a man would have from eighty-four days' imprisonment, with
hard labour, up to six months, or even a year, if he had deserted more than once. Then the
out-and-out rascals are sentenced to be 'dismissed her Majesty's service.'"

"But the real gude men," pleaded Phoebe--"them as had no whisper 'gainst 'em, same as Will?
They couldn't be hard 'pon them, 'specially if they knawed all?"

"I should hope not; I'm sure not. You see the case is so unusual, as an officer explained to
me, and such a great length of time has elapsed between the action and the judgment upon it.
That is in Will's favour. A good soldier with a clean record who deserts and is apprehended
does not get more than three months with hard labour and sometimes less. That's the worst that
can happen, I hope."

"What's hard labour to him?" murmured Billy, whose tact on occasions of universal sorrow was
sometimes faulty. "'Tis the rankle of bein' in every blackguard's mouth that'll cut Will to
the quick."

"What blackguards say and think ban't no odds," declared Mrs. Blanchard. "'Tis better--far
better he should do what he must do. The disgrace is in the minds of them that lick theer lips
upon his sorrow. Let him pay for a wrong deed done, for the evil he did that gude might come
of it. I see the right hand o' God holding' the li'l strings of my son's life, an' I knaw better'n
any of 'e what'll be in the bwoy's heart now."

"Yet, when all's said, 'tis a mournful sarcumstance an' sent for our chastening," contended
Mr. Blee stoutly. "Us mustn't argue away the torment of it an' pretend 'tis nought. Ban't a
pleasing thing, 'specially at such a time when all the airth s gwaine daft wi' joy for the
gracious gudeness o' God to the Queen o' England. In plain speech, 't is a damn dismal come-along-of-it,
an' I've cried by night, auld though I am, to think o' the man's babes grawin' up wi' this
round theer necks. An' wan to be born while he 'm put away! Theer 's a black picksher for 'e!
Him doin' hard labour as the Law directs, an' his wife doin' hard labour, tu--in her lonely
bed! Why, gormed if I--"

"For God's sake shut your mouth, you horrible old man!" burst out Martin, as Phoebe hurried
away in tears and Chris followed her. "You're a disgrace to humanity and I don't hesitate--I
don't hesitate at all to say you have no proper feeling in you!"

"Martin's right, Billy," declared Mr. Lyddon without emotion. "You 'm a thought tu quick to
meet other people's troubles half way, as I've told 'e before to-night. Ban't a comely trait
in 'e. You've made her run off sobbing her poor, bruised heart out. As if she hadn't wept enough
o' late. Do 'e think us caan't see what it all means an' the wisht cloud that's awver all our
heads, lookin' darker by contrast wi' the happiness of the land, owing to the Jubilee of a
gert Queen? Coourse we knaw. But't is poor wisdom to talk 'bout the blackness of a cloud to
them as be tryin' to find its silver lining. If you caan't lighten trouble, best to hold your
peace."

"What's the use of cryin' 'peace' when us knaws in our hearts 'tis war? Us must look inside
an' outside, an' count the cost same as I be doin' now," declared Mr. Blee. "Then to be catched
up so harsh 'mong friends! Well, well, gude-night, all; I'll go to my rest. Hard words doan't
break, though they may bruise. But I'll do my duty, whether or no."

He rose and shuffled to the door, then looked round and opened his mouth to speak again. But
he changed his mind, shook his head, snorted expressively, and disappeared.

"A straange-fashioned chap," commented Mrs. Blanchard, "wi' sometimes a wise word stuck in
his sour speech, like a gude currant in a bad dumpling."

CHAPTER XVIII

THE NIGHT OF JUBILEE

Unnumbered joy fires were writing the nation's thanksgiving across the starry darkness of a
night in June. Throughout the confines of Britain--on knolls arising beside populous towns,
above the wild cliffs of our coasts, in low-lying lands, upon the banks of rivers, at the fringes
of forests and over a thousand barren heaths, lonely wastes, and stony pinnacles of untamed
hills, like some mundane galaxy of stars or many-tongued outbreak of conflagration, the bonfires
glimmered. And their golden seed was sown so thickly, that from no pile of those hundreds then
brightening the hours of darkness had it been possible to gaze into the night and see no other.

Upon the shaggy fastnesses of Devon's central waste, within the bounds, metes, and precincts
of Dartmoor Forest, there shone a whole constellation of little suns, and a wanderer in air
might have counted a hundred without difficulty, whilst, for the beholders perched upon Yes
Tor, High Wilhays, or the bosom of Cosdon during the fairness and clearness of that memorable
night, fully threescore beacons flamed. All those granite giants within the field of man's
activities, all the monsters whose enormous shades fell at dawn or evening time upon the hamlets
and villages of the Moor, now carried on their lofty crowns the flames of rejoicing. Bonfires
of varying size, according to the energy and importance of the communities responsible for
them, dotted the circumference of the lonely region in a vast, irregular figure, but thinned
and ceased towards the unpeopled heart of the waste. On Wattern, at Cranmere, upon Fur Tor,
and under the hoary, haunted woods of Wistman, no glad beacons blazed or voices rang. There
Nature, ignorant of epochs and heeding neither olympiad nor lustrum, cycle nor century, ruled
alone; there, all self-centred, self-contained, unwitting of conscious existence and its little
joys, her perfection above praise and more enduring than any chronicle of it, asking for no
earthborn acclamations of her eternal reign, demanding only obedience from all on penalty of
death, the Mother swayed her sceptre unseen. Seed and stone, blade and berry, hot blood and
cold, did her bidding and slept or stirred at her ordinance. A nightjar harshly whirred beneath
her footstool; wan tongues of flame rose and fell upon her quaking altars; a mountain fox,
pattering quick-footed to the rabbit warren, caught light from those exhalations in his round,
green eyes and barked.

Humanity thronged and made merry around numberless crackling piles of fire. Men and women,
boys and girls, most noisily rejoiced, and from each flaming centre of festivity a thin sound
of human shouting and laughter streamed starward with the smoke.

Removed by brief distance in space, the onlooker, without overmuch strain or imagination, might
stride a pace or two backward in time and conceive himself for a moment as in the presence
of those who similarly tended beacons on these granite heights of old. Then, truly, the object
and occasion were widely different; then, perchance, in answer to evil rumour moving zigzag
on black bat-wings through nights of fear, many a bale-fire had shot upwards, upon the keystone
of Cosdon's solemn arch, beckoned like a bloody hand towards north and south, and cried danger
to a thousand British warriors lurking in moor, and fen, and forest. Answering flames had leapt
from Hay Tor, from Buckland Beacon, from Great Mis Tor in the west; and their warning, caught
up elsewhere, would quickly penetrate to the heart of the South Hams, to the outlying ramparts
of the Cornish wastes, to Exmoor and the coast-line of the north. But no laughter echoed about
those old-time fires. Their lurid light smeared wolfskins, splashed on metal and untanned hide,
illumined barbaric adornments, fierce faces, wild locks, and savage eyes. Anxious Celtic mothers
and maidens stood beside their men, while fear and rage leapt along from woman's face to woman's
face, as some gasping wretch, with twoscore miles of wilderness behind him, told of high-beaked
monsters moving under banks of oars, of dire peril, of death and ruin, suddenly sprung in a
night from behind the rim of the sea.

Since then the peaks of the Moor have smiled or scowled under countless human fires, have flashed
glad tidings or flamed ill news to many generations. And now, perched upon one enormous mass
of stone, there towered upward a beacon of blazing furze and pine. In its heart were tar barrels
and the monster bred heat enough to remind the granite beneath it of those fires that first
moulded its elvan ingredients to a concrete whole and hurled them hither.

About this eye of flame crowded those who had built it, and the roaring mass of red-hot timber
and seething pitch represented the consummation of Chagford's festivities on the night of Jubilee.
The flames, obedient to such light airs as were blowing, bent in unison with the black billows
of smoke that wound above them. Great, trembling tongues separated from the mass and soared
upward, gleaming as they vanished; sparks and jets, streams and stars of light, shot from the
pile to illuminate the rolling depths of the smoke cloud, to fret its curtain with spangles
and jewels of gold atid ruby, to weave strange, lurid lights into the very fabric of its volume.
Far away, as the breezes drew them, fell a red glimmer of fire, where those charred fragments
caught in the rush and hurled aloft, returned again to earth; and the whole incandescent structure,
perched as it was upon the apex of Yes Tor, suggested at a brief distance a fiery top-knot
of streaming flame on some vast and demoniac head thrust upward from the nether world.

Great splendour of light gleamed upon a ring of human beings. Adventurous spirits leapt forth,
fed the flames with faggots and furze and risked their hairy faces within the range of the
bonfire's scorching breath. Alternate gleam and glow played fantastically upon the spectators,
and, though for the most part they moved but little while their joy fire was at its height,
the conflagration caused a sheer devil's dance of impish light and shadow to race over every
face and form in the assemblage. The fantastic magician of the fire threw humps on to straight
backs, flattened good round breasts, wrote wrinkles on smooth faces, turned eyes and lips into
shining gems, made white teeth yellow, cast a grotesque spell of the unreal on young shapes,
of the horrible upon old ones. A sort of monkey coarseness crept into the red, upturned faces;
their proportions were distorted, their delicacy destroyed. Essential lines of figures were
concealed by the inky shadows; unimportant features were thrown into a violent prominence;
the clean fire impinged abruptly on a night of black shade, as sunrise on the moon. There was
no atmosphere. Human noses poked weirdly out of nothing, human hands waved without arms, human
heads moved without bodies, bodies bobbed along without legs. The heart-beat and furnace roar
of the fire was tremendous, but the shouts of men, the shriller laughter of women, and the
screams and yells of children could be heard through it, together with the pistol-like explosion
of sap turned to steam, and rending its way from green wood. Other sounds also fretted the
air, for a hundred yards distant--in a hut-circle--the Chagford drum-and-fife band lent its
throb and squeak to the hour, and struggled amain to increase universal joy. So the fire flourished,
and the plutonian rock-mass of the tor arose, the centre of a scene itself plutonian.

Removed by many yards from the ring of human spectators, and scattered in wide order upon the
flanks of the hill, stood tame beasts. Sheep huddled there and bleated amazement, their fleeces
touched by the flicker of the distant fire; red heifers and steers also faced the flame and
chewed the cud upon a spectacle outside all former experience; while inquisitive ponies drew
up in a wide radius, snorted and sniffed with delicate, dilated nostrils at the unfamiliar
smell of the breeze, threw up their little heads, fetched a compass at top speed and so returned;
then crowded flank to flank, shoulder to shoulder, and again blankly gazed at the fire which
reflected itself in the whites of their shifty eyes.

Fitting the freakish antics of the red light, a carnival spirit, hard to rouse in northern
hearts, awakened within this crowd of Devon men and women, old men and children. There was
in their exhilaration some inspiration from the joyous circumstance they celebrated; and something,
too, from the barrel. Allain rallied his men, and lined them up along the road.

Morin, on arriving at Langannerie had only found the corporal and one other gendarme there; they
mounted immediately and galloped to the wood of Quesnay. It was almost night when they reached
the edge of the wood. A volley of shots greeted them; the corporal was hit in the leg, and his horse
fell mortally wounded; his companion, who was deaf, did not know which way to turn. Seeing his
chief fall, he thought it best to retreat; and ran to the hamlet of Quesnay to get help. The
noise of the firing had already alarmed the neighbourhood; the tocsin sounded at Potigny, Ouilly-le-Tesson
and Sousmont; peasants flocked to each end of the wood, but they were unarmed and dared not advance.
Allain had posted five of his men as advance-guard who fired in the thicket at their own discretion,
and kept the most determined of the enemy at bay. Behind this curtain of shooters the noise
could be heard of axes breaking open chests, planks torn apart and oaths of the brigands in haste
to complete their pillage. This extraordinary scene lasted nearly an hour. At last, at a call,
the firing ceased, the robbers plunged into the thicket, and the steps of the heavily-laden horse,
urged on by the men, were heard disappearing on the crossroad.

They took the road to Ussy, with their booty and the carrier Gousset, still with his eyes bandaged
and led by Grand-Charles. They travelled fast, at night-- to avoid pursuit. Less than half a league
from Quesnay the road they followed passed the hamlet of Aisy, on
the outskirts of Sousmont, whose mayor had a château there.

He was called M. Dupont d'Aisy, and had this very evening entertained Captain Pinteville, commander
of the gendarmerie of the district. The party had been broken up by the distant noise of shooting.
M. Dupont at once sent his servants to give the alarm at Sousmont;
in less than an hour he had mustered thirty villagers and putting
himself at their head with Captain Pinteville he marched towards
Quesnay. From
their conversation it appeared that one was a traveller who now returned southward from a journey.

"Gert, gay, fanciful doin's to-night," said the driver, looking aloft where Cosdon Beacon swelled.
"You can see the light from the blaze up-long, an' now an' again you can note a sign in the
night like a red-hot wire drawed up out the airth. They 'm sky-rockets, I judge."

"'T is a joyful night, sure 'nough."

The driver illustrated a political ignorance quite common in rural districts ten years ago
and not conspicuously rare to-day. He laboured under uneasy suspicions that the support of
monarchy was a direct and dismal tax upon the pockets of the poor.

"Pity all the fuss ban't about a better job," he said. "Wan auld, elderly lady 's so gude as
another, come to think of it. Why shouldn't my mother have a jubilee?"

"What for? 'Cause she've borne a damned fule?" asked the other man angrily. "If that's your
way o' thought, best keep it in your thoughts. Anyhow, I'll knock your silly head off if I
hears another word to that tune, so now you knaw."

The speaker was above medium height and breadth, the man who drove him happened to be unusually
small.

"Well, well, no offence," said the latter.

"There is offence; an' it I heard a lord o' the land talk that way to-night, I'd make un swallow
every dirty word of it. To hell wi' your treason!"

The driver changed the subject.

"Now you can see a gude few new fires," he said. "That's the Throwleigh blaze; an' that, long
ways off, be--"

"Yes Tor by the look of it. All Chagford's traapsed up-long, I warn 'e, to-night."

They were now approaching a turning of the ways and the traveller suddenly changed his destination.

"Come to think of it, I'll go straight on," he said. "That'll save you a matter o' ten miles,
tu. Drive ahead a bit Berry Down way. Theer I'll leave 'e an' you'll be back home in time to
have some fun yet."

The driver, rejoicing at this unhoped diminution of his labours, soon reached the foot of a
rough by-road that ascends to the Moor between the homesteads of Berry Down and Creber.

Yes Tor now arose on the left under its cap of flame, and the wayfarer, who carried no luggage,
paid his fare, bid the other "good-night," and then vanished into the darkness.

He passed between the sleeping farms, and only watch-dogs barked out of the silence, for Gidleigh
folks were all abroad that night. Pressing onwards, the native hurried to Scorhill, then crossed
the Teign below Batworthy Farm, passed through the farmyard, and so proceeded to the common
beneath Yes Tor. He whistled as he went, then stopped a moment to listen. The first drone of
music and remote laughter reached his ear. He hurried onwards until a gleam lighted his face;
then he passed through the ring of beasts, still glaring fascinated around the fire; and finally
he pushed among the people.

He stood revealed and there arose a sudden whisper among some who knew him, but whom he knew
not. One or two uttered startled cries at this apparition, for all associated the newcomer
with events and occurrences widely remote from the joy of the hour. How he came among them
now, and what event made it possible for him to stand in their midst a free man, not the wisest
could guess.

A name was carried from mouth to mouth, then shouted aloud, then greeted with a little cheer.
It fell upon Mr. Blee's ear as he prepared to start homewards; and scarcely had the sound of
it set him gasping when a big man grew out of the flame and shadow and stood before him with
extended hand. 

Why did the Marquise in her confidential letters insist on this point?

"Say that the lawyer returned to his house on foot," is a sentence
that we find in each of her letters.

Since no mystery was made of the journey, why was its means of accomplishment
important?

"Free! Gude God! Doan't tell me you've brawke loose--doan't 'e say that! Christ! if you haven't
squashed my hand till theer's no feeling in it! Doan't 'e say you've runned away?"

"No such thing," answered Will, now the centre of a little crowd. "I'll tell 'e, sawls all,
if you mind to hear. 'Tis this way: Queen Victoria, as have given of the best she've got wi'
both hands to the high men of the land, so they tell me, caan't forget nought, even at such
a time as this here. She've made gert additions to all manner o' men; an' to me, an' the likes
o' me she've given what's more precious than bein' lords or dukes. I'm free--me an' all as
runned from the ranks. The Sovereign Queen's let deserters go free, if you can credit it; an'
that's how I stand here this minute."

A buzz and hum with cheers and some laughter and congratulations followed Will's announcement.
Then the people scattered to spread his story, and Mr. Blee spoke.

"Come you down home to wance. Ban't none up here as cares a rush 'bout 'e but me. But theer
's a many anxious folks below. I comed up for auld sake's sake an' because ban't in reason
to suppose I'll ever see another joy fire 'pon Yes Tor rock, at my time o' life. But us'll
go an' carry this rare news to Chagford an' the Barton."

They faded from the red radius of the fire and left it slowly dying. Will helped Billy off
rough ground to the road. Then he set off at a speed altogether beyond the old man's power,
so Mr. Blee resorted to stratagem.

"'Bate your pace; 'bate your pace; I caan't travel that gait an' talk same time. Yet theer's
a power o' fine things I might tell 'e if you'd listen."

"'T is hard to walk slow towards a mother an' wife like what mine be, after near a month from
'em; but let's have your news, Billy, an' doan't croak, for God's sake. Say all's well wi' all."

"I ban't no croaker, as you knaws. Happy, are 'e?--happy for wance? I suppose you'll say now,
as you've said plenty times a'ready, that you 'm to the tail of your troubles for gude an'
all--just in your auld, silly fashion?"

"Not me, auld chap, never no more--so long as you 'm alive! Ha, ha, ha--that's wan for you!
Theer! if 't isn't gude to laugh again!"

"I be main glad as I've got no news to make 'e do anything else, though ban't often us can
be prophets of gude nowadays. But if you've grawed a streak wiser of late, then theer's hope,
even for a scatterbrain like you, the Lard bein' all-powerful. Not that jokes against such
as me would please Him the better."

"I've thought a lot in my time, Billy; an' I haven't done thinking yet. I've comed to reckon
as I caan't do very well wi'out the world, though the world would fare easy enough wi'out me."

Billy nodded.

"That's sense so far as it goes," he admitted. "Obedience be hard to the young; to the auld
it comes natural; to me allus was easy as dirt from my youth up. Obedience to betters in heaven
an' airth. But you--you with your born luck--never heard tell of nothin' like it 't all. What's
a fix to you? You goes in wan end an' walks out t' other, like a rabbit through a hedge. There is
no far-fetched strain of reasoning, nor any attempt at fine writing in these discourses; but the
mind of the reader is directed, by a well-managed series of divisions, to the principal doctrines
and duties derivable from the passages under consideration.

These sermons will afford to the young clergyman excellent examples of the kind of composition
which is calculated to render his pulpit-ministration effectual. "-- English
Review.

London: GEORGE BELL, 186.

There was a silence of some duration; then Billy again bid his companion moderate his pace.

"I'm forgetting all I've got to tell 'e, though I've news enough for a buke," he said.

"How's Jan Grimbal, fust plaace?"

"On his legs again an' out o' danger if the Lunnon doctor knaws anything. A hunderd guineas
they say that chap have had! Your name was danced to a mad tune 'pon Grimbal's lips 'fore his
senses corned back to un. Why for I caan't tell 'e. He've shook hands wi' Death for sartain
while you was away."

"An' mother, an' wife, an' Miller?"

"Your mother be well--a steadfast woman her be. Joy doan't lift her up, an' sorrow doan't crush
her. Theer's gert wisdom in her way of life. 'T is my awn, for that matter. Then Miller--well,
he 'm grawin' auld an' doan't rate me quite so high as formerly--not that I judge anybody but
myself. An' your missis--theer, if I haven't kept it for the last! 'Tis news four-an-twenty
hour old now an' they wrote to 'e essterday, but I lay you missed the letter awin' to me--"

"Get on!"

"Well, she've brought 'e a bwoy--so now you've got both sorts--bwoy an' cheel. An' all doin'
well as can be, though wisht work for her, thinkin' 'pon you the while."

Will stood still and uttered a triumphant but inarticulate sound--half-laugh, half-sob, half-thanksgiving.
Then the man spoke, slow and deep,--

"He shall go for a soldier!"

"Theer! Now I knaw 't is Blanchard back an' no other! Hear me, will 'e; doan't plan no such
uneven way of life for un."

"By God, he shall!"

The words came back over Will Blanchard's shoulder, for he was fast vanishing.

"Might have knawed he wouldn't walk along wi' me arter that," thought Billy. Then he lifted
up his voice and bawled to the diminishing figure, already no more than a darker blot on the
darkness of night. 

SERMONS for SCHOOLS and FAMILIES.

"This volume of sermons is of a different stamp from the generality
of those which come under our notice.

There is a vigour of thought and language throughout, without the
slightest extravagance or exaggeration.

Presently he stood beside the wicket of Mrs. Blanchard's cottage and hesitated between two
women. Despite circumstances, there came no uncertain answer from the deepest well-springs
of him. He could not pass that gate just then. And so he stopped and turned and entered; and
she, his mother, sitting in thought alone, heard a footfall upon the great nightly silence--a
sudden, familiar footfall that echoed to her heart the music it loved best.

THE END.

