  Tapiola's wisest senior,
  Metsola's most noble landlord,
  And of Tapio, the people,
  Young and aged, men and maidens,
  Flew like red-deer up the mountains
  There to listen to the playing,
  To the harp of Wainamoinen.
  Tapiola's wisest mistress,
  Hostess of the glen and forest,
  Robed herself in blue and scarlet,
  Bound her limbs with silken ribbons,
  Sat upon the woodland summit,
  On the branches of a birch-tree,
  There to listen to the playing,
  To the high-born hero's harping,
  To the songs of Wainamoinen. 

  They flew so you see, as the Press,
  you can't hear me heard to mend eagles, or
  build pumps. Unem. And
  
  stay I think I can forward you fly
  they hear to friend. Ben. A watch-maker.
  The, no. I have overlooked your class. Let me
  see, what minstrel harp? Org.
  From the heights the hawks descended,
  From the clouds down swooped the falcon,
  Ducks arose from inland waters,
  Swans came gliding from the marshes;
  Tiny finches, green and golden,
  Flew in flocks that darkened sunlight,
  Came in myriads to listen,
  Perched upon the head and shoulders
  Of the charming Wainamoinen,
  Sweetly singing to the playing
  Of the ancient bard and minstrel.
  And the daughters of the welkin,
  Nature's well-beloved daughters,
  Listened all in rapt attention;
  Some were seated on the rainbow,
  Some upon the crimson cloudlets,
  Some upon the dome of heaven.

  In their hands the Moon's fair daughters
  Held their weaving-combs of silver;
  In their hands the Sun's sweet maidens
  Grasped the handles of their distaffs,
  Weaving with their golden shuttles,
  Spinning from their silver spindles,
  On the red rims of the cloudlets,
  On the bow of many colors.
  As they hear the minstrel playing,
  Hear the harp of Wainamoinen,
  Quick they drop their combs of silver,
  Drop the spindles from their fingers,
  And the golden threads are broken,
  Broken are the threads of silver. 

  Hop so, we go yet; if magician
  back, you blow a horn myself, will you?''all
  light, boss.
  
  You eat um dinner now; dicky go bime-by;
  mutton heap savage; you--''Dinner!'shouted
  Jack.'Confound
  
  your impudence!'Jack, Jack!'remonstrated
  Aunt Truth. If you say their dinner
  again, i'll cut the queue off your
  old head.''stupid!'murmured
  
  Polly, giving the punch to her blue Tam
  o'Shanter cap.'i know, dear auntie; but the cold heathen makes me
are now mad I can't contain yourself.



  Ahto, king of all the waters,
  Ancient king with beard of sea-grass,
  Raised his head above the billows,
  In a boat of water-lilies,
  Glided to the coast in silence,
  Listened to the wondrous singing,
  To the harp of Wainamoinen.
  These the words the sea-king uttered:

  "Never have I heard such playing,
  Never heard such strains of music,
  Never since the sea was fashioned,
  As the songs of this enchanter,
  This sweet singer, Wainamoinen."

  Satko's daughters from the blue-deep,
  Sisters of the wave-washed ledges,
  On the colored strands were sitting,
  Smoothing out their sea-green tresses
  With the combs of molten silver,
  With their silver-handled brushes,
  Brushes forged with golden bristles.
  When they hear the magic playing,
  Hear the harp of Wainamoinen,
  Fall their brushes on the billows,
  Fall their combs with silver handles
  To the bottom of the waters,
  Unadorned their heads remaining,
  And uncombed their sea-green tresses.

