In spite of his multifarious duties, he was now more than ever determined to make his name
as a poet. Dr. Currie appears to count it as a reproach that his farm no longer occupied the
principal part of his care or his thoughts. Yet it could not have been otherwise. Burns after
having undertaken a duty would attend to it religiously, and we know that he pursued his work
throughout his ten parishes diligently, faithfully, and with unvarying punctuality. Others
have bemoaned that those frequent Excise excursions led the poet into temptation, that he was
being continually assailed by the sin that so easily beset him. Let it be admitted frankly
that the temptations to social excess were great; is it not all the more creditable to Burns
that he did not sink under those temptations and become the besotted wreck conventional biography
has attempted to make him? If those who raise this plaint mean to insinuate that Burns became
a confirmed toper, then they are assuredly wrong; if they be only drawing attention to the
fact that drinking was too common in Scotland at that time, then they are attacking not the
poet but the social customs of his day. It would be easy if we were to accept 'the general
impression of the place,' and go by the tale of gossip, to show that Burns was demoralised
by his duties as a gauger, and sank into a state of maudlin intemperance. But ascertained fact
and the testimony of unimpeachable authority are at variance with the voice of gossip. 'So
much the worse for fact,' biography would seem to have said, and gaily sped on the work of
defamation. We only require to forget Allan Cunningham's Personal Sketch of the Poet, the letters
from Mr. Findlater and Mr. Gray, and to close our eyes to the excellence of the poetry of this
period, in order to see Burns on the downgrade, and to preach grand moral lessons from the
text of a wasted life.

But, after all, 'facts are chiels that winna ding,' and we must take them into account, however
they may baulk us of grand opportunities of plashing in watery sentiment. Speaking of the poet's
biographers, Mr. Findlater remarks that they have tried to outdo one another in heaping obloquy
on his name; they have made his convivial habits, habitual drunkenness; his wit and humour,
impiety; his social talents, neglect of duty; and have accused him of every vice. Then he gives
his testimony: 'My connection with Robert Burns commenced immediately after his admission into
the Excise, and continued to the hour of his death. In all that time the superintendence of
his behaviour as an officer of the revenue was a branch of my especial province; and it may
be supposed I would not be an inattentive observer of the general conduct of a man and a poet
so celebrated by his countrymen. In the former capacity, so far from its being impossible for
him to discharge the duties of his office with that regularity which is almost indispensable,
as is palpably assumed by one of his biographers, and insinuated, not very obscurely even,
by Dr. Currie, he was exemplary in his attention as an Excise officer, and was even jealous
of the least imputation on his vigilance.'

But a glance at the poems and songs of this period would be a sufficient vindication of the
poet's good name. There are considerably over a hundred songs and poems written during his
stay at Ellisland, many of them of his finest. The third volume of Johnson's Museum, published
in February 1790, contained no fewer than forty songs by Burns. Among the Ellisland songs were
such as, Ye Banks and Braes o' Bonnie Doon, Auld Lang Syne, Willie brewed a Peck o' Maut, To
Mary in Heaven, Of a' the Airts the Wind can blaw, My Love she's but a Lassie yet, Tam Glen,
John Anderson my Jo, songs that have become the property of the world. Of the last-named song,
Angellier remarks that the imagination of the poet must have indeed explored every situation
of love to have led him to that which he in his own experience could not have known. Even the
song Willie brewed a Peck o' Maut, the first of bacchanalian ditties, is the work of a man
of sane mind and healthy appetite. It is not of the diseased imagination of drunken genius.
But the greatest poem of this period, and one of Burns's biggest achievements, is Tam o' Shanter.
This poem was written in answer to a request of Captain Grose that the poet would provide a
witch story to be printed along with a drawing of Alloway Kirk, and was first published in
Grose's Antiquities of Scotland. We have been treated by several biographers to a private view
of the poet, with wild gesticulations, agonising in the composition of this poem; but where
his wife did not venture to intrude, we surely need not seek to desecrate. 'I stept aside with
the bairns among the broom,' says Bonnie Jean; not, we should imagine, to leave room for aliens
and strangers. He has been again burlesqued for us rending himself in rhyme, and stretched
on straw groaning elegiacs to Mary in heaven. All this is mere sensationalism provided for
illiterate readers. We have the poem, and its excellence sufficeth.

It is worthy of note that in Tam o' Shanter, as well as in To Mary in Heaven, the poet goes
back to his earlier years in Ayrshire. They are posthumous products of the inspiration which
gave us the Kilmarnock Edition. I am not inclined to agree with Carlyle in his estimate of
Tam o' Shanter. It is not the composition of a man of great talent, but of a man of transcendent
poetical genius. The story itself is a conception of genius, and in the narration the genius
is unquestionable. It is a panorama of pictures so vivid and powerful that the characters and
scenes are fixed indelibly on the mind, and abide with us a cherished literary possession.
After reading the poem, the words are recalled without conscious effort of memory, but as the
only possible embodiment of the mental impressions retained. Short as the poem is, there is
in it character, humour, pathos, satire, indignation, tenderness, fun, frolic, diablerie, almost
every human feeling. I have heard Burns in the writing of this poem likened to a composer at
an organ improvising a piece of music in which, before he has done, he has used every stop
and touched every note on the keyboard. Even the weakest lines of the piece, which mark a dramatic
pause in the rapid narration, have a distinctive beauty and are the most frequently quoted
lines of the poem. In artistic word-painting and graphic phrasing Burns is here at his best.
His description of the horrible is worthy of Shakspeare; and it is questionable if even the
imagination of that master ever conceived anything more awful than the scene and circumstance
of the infernal orgies of those witches and warlocks. What Zolaesque realism there is! In the
line, 'The grey hairs yet stack to the heft,' all the gruesomeness of murder is compressed
into a distich. Yet the horrible details are controlled and unified in the powerful imagination
of the poet. We believe Dr. Blacklock was right in thinking that this poem, though Burns had
never written another syllable, would have made him a high reputation. Certainly it was not
the work of a man daily dazing his faculties with drink; no more was that exquisite lyric To
Mary in Heaven. Another poem of this period deserving special mention is The Whistle, not merely
because of its dramatic force and lyrical beauty, but because it gives a true picture of the
drinking customs of the time. And again I dare assert that this is not the work of a mind enfeebled
or debased by drink. It is a bit of simple, direct, sincere narration, humanly healthy in tone;
the ideas are clear and consecutive, and the language fitting. It is not so that drunken genius
expresses itself. The language of a poetical mind enfeebled by alcohol or opium is frequently
mystic and musical; it never deals with the realities and responsibilities of life, but in
a witchery of words winds and meanders through the realms of reverie and dream. It may be sweet
and sensuous; it is rarely narrative or simple; never direct nor forcible.

In the Kirk's Alarm, wherein he again reverted to his Mossgiel period, he displayed all his
former force of satire, as well as his sympathy with those who advocated rational views in
religion. Dr. Macgill had written a book which the Kirk declared to be heretical, and Burns,
at the request of some friends, fought for the doctor in his usual way, though with little
hope of doing him any good. 'Ajax's shield consisted, I think, of seven bull-hides and a plate
of brass, which altogether set Hector's utmost force at defiance. Alas! I am not a Hector,
and the worthy doctor's foes are as securely armed as Ajax was. Ignorance, superstition, bigotry,
stupidity, malevolence, self-conceit, envy--all strongly bound in a massy frame of brazen impudence;
to such a shield humour is the peck of a sparrow and satire the pop-gun of a schoolboy. Creation-disgracing
scélérats such as they, God only can mend, and the devil only can punish.' The doctor yielded,
Cunningham tells us, and was forgiven, but not the poet; pertinently adding, 'so much more
venial is it in devout men's eyes to be guilty of heresy than of satire.'

Into political as well as theological matters Burns also entered with all his wonted enthusiasm.
Of his election ballads, the best, perhaps, are The Five Carlins and the Epistle to Mr. Graham
of Fintry. But these ballads are not to be taken as a serious addition to the poet's works;
he did not wish them to be so taken. He was a man as well as a poet; was interested with his
neighbours in political affairs, and in the day of battle fought with the weapons he could
wield with effect. Nor are his ballads always to be taken as representing his political principles;
these he expressed in song that did not owe its inspiration to the excitement of elections.
Burns was not a party man; he had in politics, as in religion, some broad general principles,
but he had 'the warmest veneration for individuals of both parties.' The most important verse
in his Epistle to Graham of Fintry is the last:

    'For your poor friend, the Bard, afar
    He hears and only hears the war,
                A cool spectator purely:
    So, when the storm the forest rends,
    The robin in the hedge descends,
                And sober chirps securely.'

Burns's life was, therefore, quite full at Ellisland, too full indeed; for, towards the end
of 1791, we find him disposing of the farm, and looking to the Excise alone for a livelihood.
In the farm he had sunk the greater part of the profits of his Edinburgh Edition; and now it
was painfully evident that the money was lost. He had worked hard enough, but he was frequently
absent, and a farm thrives only under the eye of a master. On Excise business he was accustomed
to ride at least two hundred miles every week, and so could have little time to give to his
fields. Besides this, the soil of Ellisland had been utterly exhausted before he entered on
his lease, and consequently made a miserable return for the labour expended on it. The friendly
relations that had existed between him and his landlord were broken off before now; and towards
the close of his stay at Ellisland Burns spoke rather bitterly of Mr. Miller's selfish kindness.
Miller was, in fact, too much of a lord and master, exacting submission as well as rent from
his tenants; while Burns was of too haughty a spirit to beck and bow to any man. 'The life
of a farmer is,' he wrote to Mrs. Dunlop, 'as a farmer paying a dear, unconscionable rent,
a cursed life.... Devil take the life of reaping the fruits that others must eat!'

The poet, too, had been overworking himself, and was again subject to his attacks of hypochondria.
He had already got ranked on the list as supervisor, an appointment that he reckoned might
be worth one hundred or two hundred pounds a year; and this determined him to quit the farm
entirely, and to try to make a living by one profession. As farmer, exciseman, and poet he
had tried too much, and even a man of his great capacity for work was bound to have succumbed
under the strain. Even had the farm not proved the ruinous bargain it did, we imagine that
he must have been compelled sooner or later to relinquish one of the two, either his farm or
his Excise commission. Circumstances decided for him, and in December 1791 he sold by auction
his stock and implements, and removed to Dumfries, 'leaving nothing at Ellisland but a putting-stone,
with which he loved to exercise his strength; a memory of his musings, which can never die;
and three hundred pounds of his money, sunk beyond redemption in a speculation from which all
augured happiness.'

CHAPTER VIII

DUMFRIES

When Burns removed from Ellisland to Dumfries, he took up his abode in a small house of three
apartments in the Wee Vennel. Here he stayed till Whitsunday 1793, when the family removed
to a detached house of two storeys in the Mill Vennel. A mere closet nine feet square was the
poet's writing-room in this house, and it was in the bedroom adjoining that he died.

The few years of his residence in Dumfries have been commonly regarded as a period of poverty
and intemperance. But his intemperance has always been most religiously exaggerated, and we
doubt not also that the poverty of the family at this time has been made to appear worse than
it was. Burns had not a salary worthy of his great abilities, it is true, but there is good
reason to believe that the family lived in comparative ease and comfort, and that there were
luxuries in their home, which neither father nor mother had known in their younger days. Burns
liked to see his Bonnie Jean neat and trim, and she went as braw as any wife of the town. Though
we know that he wrote painfully, towards the end of his life, for the loan of paltry sums,
we are to regard this as a sign more of temporary embarrassment than of a continual struggle
to make ends meet. The word debt grated so harshly on Burns's ears that he could not be at
peace with himself so long as the pettiest account remained unpaid; and if he had no ready
money in his hands to meet it, he must e'en borrow from a friend. His income, when he settled
in Dumfries, was 'down money £70 per annum,' and there were perquisites which must have raised
it to eighty or ninety. Though his hopes of preferment were never realised, he tried his best
on this slender income 'to make a happy fireside clime to weans and wife,' and in a sense succeeded.

What he must have felt more keenly than anything else in leaving Ellisland was, that in giving
up farming he was making an open confession of failure in his ideal of combining in himself
the farmer, the poet, and the exciseman. There was a stigma also attaching to the name of gauger,
that must often have been galling to the spirit of Burns. The ordinary labourer utters the
word with dry contempt, as if he were speaking of a spy. But the thoughts of a wife and bairns
had already prevailed over prejudice; he realised the responsibilities of a husband and father,
and pocketed his pride. A great change it must have been to come from the quiet and seclusion
of Ellisland to settle down in the midst of the busy life of an important burgh.

Life in provincial towns in Scotland in those days was simply frittered away in the tittle-tattle
of cross and causeway, and the insipid talk of taverns. The most trifling incidents of everyday
life were dissected and discussed, and magnified into events of the first importance. Many
residents had no trade or profession whatever. Annuitants and retired merchants built themselves
houses, had their portraits painted in oil, and thereafter strutted into an aristocracy. Without
work, without hobby, without healthy recreation, and cursed with inglorious leisure, they simply
dissipated time until they should pass into eternity. The only amusement such lumpish creatures
could have was to meet in some inn or tavern, and swill themselves into a debauched joy of
life. Dumfries, when Burns came to it in 1791, was no better and no worse than its neighbours;
and we can readily imagine how eagerly such a man would be welcomed by its pompously dull and
leisured topers. Now might their meetings be lightened with flashes of genius, and the lazy
hours of their long nights go fleeting by on the wings of wit and eloquence. Too often in Dumfries
was Burns wiled into the howffs and haunts of these seasoned casks. They could stand heavy
drinking; the poet could not. He was too highly strung, and if he had consulted his own inclination
would rather have shunned than sought the company of men who met to quaff their quantum of
wine and sink into sottish sleep. For Burns was never a drunkard, not even in Dumfries; though
the contrary has been asserted so often that it has all the honour that age and the respectability
of authority can give it. There was with him no animal craving for drink, nor has he been convicted
of solitary drinking; but he was intensely convivial, and drank, as Professor Blackie put it,
'only as the carnal seasoning of a rampant intellectuality.' There is no doubt that he came
to Dumfries a comparatively pure and sober man; and if he now began to frequent the Globe Tavern,
often to cast his pearls before swine, let it be remembered that he was compelled frequently
to meet there strangers and tourists who had journeyed for the express purpose of meeting the
poet. Nowadays writers and professional men have their clubs, and in general frequent them
more regularly than Burns ever haunted the howffs of Dumfries. But we have heard too much about
'the poet's moral course after he settled in Dumfries being downward.' 'From the time of his
migration to Dumfries,' Principal Shairp soberly informs us, 'it would appear that he was gradually
dropped out of acquaintance by most of the Dumfriesshire lairds, as he had long been by the
parochial and other ministers.' Poor lairds! Poor ministers! If they preferred their own talk
of crops and cattle and meaner things to the undoubted brilliancy of Burns's conversation,
surely their dulness and want of appreciation is not to be laid to the charge of the poet.
I doubt not had the poet lived to a good old age he would have been gradually dropped out of
acquaintance by some who have not scrupled to write his biography. Politics, it is admitted,
may have formed the chief element in the lairds' and ministers' aversion, but there is a hint
that his irregular life had as much to do with it. Is it to be seriously contended that these
men looked askance at Burns because of his occasional convivialities? 'Madam,' he answered
a lady who remonstrated with him on this very subject, 'they would not thank me for my company
if I did not drink with them.' These lairds, perhaps even these ministers, could in all probability
stand their three bottles with the best, and were more likely to drop the acquaintance of one
who would not drink bottle for bottle with them than of one who indulged to excess. It was
considered a breach of hospitality not to imbibe so long as the host ordained; and in many
cases glasses were supplied so constructed that they had to be drained at every toast. But
he has been accused of mixing with low company! That is something nearer the mark, and goes
far to explain the aversion of those stately Tories. But again, what is meant by low company?
Are we to believe that the poet made associates of depraved and abandoned men? Not for a moment!
This low company was nothing more than men in the rank of life into which he had been born;
mechanics, tradesmen, farmers, ploughmen, who did not move in the aristocratic circles of patrician
lairds or ministers ordained to preach the gospel to the poor. It was simply the old, old cry
of 'associating with publicans and sinners.'

We do not defend nor seek to hide the poet's aberrations; he confessed them remorselessly,
and condemned himself. But we do raise our voice against the exaggeration of occasional over-indulgence
into confirmed debauchery; and dare assert that Burns was as sober a man as the average lairds
and ministers who had the courage of their prejudices, and wrote themselves down asses to all
posterity.

But here again the work the poet managed to do is a sufficient disproof of his irregular life.
He was at this time, besides working hard at his Excise business, writing ballads and songs,
correcting for Creech the two-volume edition of his poems, and managing somehow or other to
find time for a pretty voluminous correspondence. His hands were full and his days completely
occupied. He would not have been an Excise officer very long had he been unable to attend to
his duties. William Wallace, the editor of Chambers's Burns, has studied very carefully this
period of the poet's life, and found that in those days of petty faultfinding he has not once
been reprimanded, either for drunkenness or for dereliction of duty. There were spies and informers
about who would not have left the Excise Commissioners uninformed of the paltriest charge they
could have trumped up against Burns. Nor is there, when we look at his literary work, any falling
off in his powers as a poet. He sang as sweetly, as purely, as magically as ever he did; and
this man, who has been branded as a blasphemer and a libertine, had nobly set himself to purify
the polluted stream of Scottish Song. He was still continuing his contributions to Johnson's
Museum, and now he had also begun to write for Thomson's more ambitious work.

Some of the first of his Dumfriesshire songs owe their inspiration to a hurried visit he paid
to Mrs. Maclehose in Edinburgh before she sailed to join her husband in the West Indies. The
best of these are, perhaps, My Nannie's Awa' and Ae Fond Kiss. The ship was armed and well
manned; and while Lewars, a brother-excisemen, posted to Dumfries for a guard of dragoons,
Burns, with a few men under him, watched to prevent landing or escape. It was while impatiently
waiting Lewars's return that he composed this song. When the dragoons arrived Burns put himself
at their head, and wading, sword in hand, was the first to board the smuggler. The affair might
ultimately have led to his promotion had he not, next day at the sale of the vessel's arms
and stores in Dumfries, purchased four carronades, which he sent, with a letter testifying
his admiration and respect, to the French Legislative Assembly. The carronades never reached
their destination, having been intercepted at Dover by the Custom House authorities. It is
a pity perhaps that Burns should have testified his political leanings in so characteristic
a way. It was the impetuous act of a poet roused to enthusiasm, as were thousands of his fellow-countrymen
at the time, by what was thought to be the beginning of universal brotherhood in France. But
whatever may be said as to the impulsive imprudence of the step, it is not to be condemned
as a most absurd and presumptuous breach of decorum. We were not at war with France at this
time; had not even begun to await developments with critical suspicion. Talleyrand had not
yet been slighted by our Queen, and protestations of peace and friendship were passing between
the two Governments. Any subject of the king might at this time have written a friendly letter
or forwarded a token of goodwill to the French Government, without being suspected of disloyalty.
But by the time the carronades had reached Dover the complexion of things had changed; and
yet even in those critical times Burns's action, though it may have hindered promotion, does
not appear to have been interpreted as 'a most absurd and presumptuous breach of decorum.'
That interpretation was left for biographers made wise with the passions of war; and yet they
have not said in so many words, what they darkly insinuate, that the poet was not a loyal British
subject. His love of country is too surely established. That, later, he thought the Ministry
engaging in an unjust and unrighteous war, may be frankly admitted. He was not alone in his
opinion; nor was he the only poet carried away with a wild enthusiasm of Liberty, Equality,
and Fraternity. Societies were then springing up all over the country calling for redress of
grievances and for greater political freedom. Such societies were regarded by the Government
of the day as seditious, and their agitations as dangerous to the peace of the country; and
Burns, though he did not become a member of the Society of the Friends of the People, was at
one with them in their desire for reform. It was known also that he 'gat the Gazeteer,' and
that was enough to mark him out as a disaffected person. No doubt he also talked imprudently;
for it was not the nature of this man to keep his sentiments hidden in his heart, and to talk
the language of expediency. What he thought in private he advocated publicly in season and
out of season; and it was quite in the natural course of things that information regarding
his political opinions should be lodged against him with the Board of Excise. His political
conduct was made the subject of official inquiry, and it would appear that for a time he was
in danger of dismissal from the service. This is a somewhat painful episode in his life; and
we find him in a letter to Mr. Graham of Fintry repudiating the slanderous charges, yet confessing
that the tender ties of wife and children 'unnerve courage and wither resolution.' Mr. Findlater,
his superior, was of opinion that only a very mild reprimand was administered, and the poet
warned to be more prudent in his speech. But what appeared mild to Mr. Findlater was galling
to Burns. That remorse for misconduct irritated him against himself and against the world,
is true; but it is none the less true that he must have chafed against the servility of an
office that forbade him the freedom of personal opinion. In the same letter he unburdens his
heart in a burst of eloquent and noble indignation. It is alleged that he once, when the health
of Pitt was being drunk, interposed with the toast of 'A greater than Pitt--George Washington.'
There can be little fault found with the sentiment. It is given to poets to project themselves
into futurity, and declare the verdict of posterity. But the occasion was ill-chosen, and he
spoke with all a poet's imprudence. In another company he aroused the martial fury of an unreasoning
captain by proposing the toast, 'May our success in the present war be equal to the justice
of our cause.' A very humanitarian toast, one would think, but regarded as seditious by the
fire-eating captain, who had not the sense to see that there was more of sedition in his resentment
than in Burns's proposal. Yet the affair looked black enough for a time, and the poet was afraid
that even this story would be carried to the ears of the commissioners, and his political opinions
be again misrepresented.

Another thing that came to disturb his peace of mind was his quarrel with Mrs. Riddell of Woodley
Park, where he had been made a welcome guest ever since his advent to this district. That Burns,
in the heat of a fever of intoxication, had been guilty of a glaring act of impropriety in
the presence of the ladies seated in the drawing-room, we may gather from the internal evidence
of his letter written the following morning 'from the regions of hell, amid the horrors of
the damned.' It would appear that the gentlemen left in the dining-room had got ingloriously
drunk, and there and then proposed an indecorous raid on the drawing-room. Whatever it might
be they did, it was Burns who was made to suffer the shame of the drunken plot. His letter
of abject apology remained unanswered, and the estrangement was only embittered by some lampoons
which he wrote afterwards on this accomplished lady. The affair was bruited abroad, and the
heinousness of the poet's offence vastly exaggerated. Certain it is that he became deeply incensed
against not only the lady, but her husband as well, to whom he considered he owed no apology
whatever. Matters were only made worse by his unworthy verses, and it was not till he was almost
on the brink of the grave that he and Mrs. Riddell met again, and the old friendship was re-established.
The lady not only forgot and forgave, but she was one of the first after the poet's death to
write generously and appreciatively of his character and abilities.

That the quarrel with Mrs. Riddell was prattled about in Dumfries, and led other families to
drop the acquaintance of the poet, we are made painfully aware; and in his correspondence now
there is rancour, bitterness, and remorse more pronounced and more settled than at any other
period of his life. He could not go abroad without being reminded of the changed attitude of
the world; he could not stay at home without seeing his noble wife uncomplainingly nursing
a child that was not hers. He cursed himself for his sins and follies; he cursed the world
for its fickleness and want of sympathy. 'His wit,' says Heron, 'became more gloomy and sarcastic,
and his conversation and writings began to assume a misanthropical tone, by which they had
not been before in any eminent degree distinguished. But with all his failings his was still
that exalted mind which had raised itself above the depression of its original condition, with
all the energy of the lion pawing to free his hinder limbs from the yet encumbering earth.'

His health now began to give his friends serious concern. He kept pouring out song after song,
criticising, rewriting, changing what was foul and impure into songs of the tenderest delicacy.
He showed love in every mood, from the rapture of pure passion in the Lea Rig, the maidenly
abandon of Whistle and I'll come to you, my Lad, to the humour of Last May a Braw Wooer and
Duncan Gray, and the guileless devotion of O wert thou in the Cauld Blast. But he sang of more
than love. Turning from the coldness of the high and mighty, who had once been his friends,
he found consolation in the naked dignity of manhood, and penned the hymn of humanity, A Man's
a Man for a' that. Scots wha hae is another of his Dumfries poems. Mr. Syme gives a highly-coloured
and one-sided view of the poet riding in a storm between Gatehouse and Kenmure, where we are
assured he composed this ode. It matters not, however, when or how it was written; we have
it now, one of the most martial and rousing odes ever penned. Not only has it gripped the heart
of Scotsmen, but it has taken the ear of the world; its fire and vigour have inspired soldiers
in the day of battle, and consoled them in the hour of death. We are not forgetful of the fact
that Mrs. Hemans, who wrote some creditable verse, and the placid Wordsworth, discussed this
ode, and agreed that it was little else than the rhodomontade of a schoolboy. It is a pity
that such authorities should have missed the charm of Scots wha hae. More than likely they
made up for the loss in a solitary appreciation of Betty Foy or The Pilgrim Fathers.

Another martial ode, composed in 1795, was called forth by the immediate dangers of the time.
The country was roused by the fear of foreign invasion, and Burns, who had enrolled himself
in the ranks of the Dumfriesshire Volunteers, penned the patriotic song, Does Haughty Gaul
Invasion threat? This song itself might have reinstalled him in public favour, and dispelled
all doubt as to his loyalty, had he cared again to court the society of those who had dropped
him from the list of their acquaintance. But Burns had grown indifferent to any favour save
the favour of his Muse; besides, he was now shattered in health, and assailed with gloomy forebodings
of an early death. For himself he would have faced death manfully, but again it was the thought
of wife and bairns that unmanned him.

Not content with supplying Thomson with songs, he wrote letters full of hints and suggestions
anent songs and song-making, and now and then he gave a glimpse of himself at work. We see
him sitting under the shade of an old thorn crooning to himself until he gets a verse to suit
the measure he has in his mind; looking round for objects in nature that are in unison and
harmony with the cogitations of his fancy; humming every now and then the air with the verses;
retiring to his study to commit his effusions to paper, and while he swings at intervals on
the hind legs of his elbow-chair, criticising what he has written. A common walk of his when
he was in the poetical vein was to the ruins of Lincluden Abbey, whither he was often accompanied
by his eldest boy; sometimes towards Martingdon ford, on the north side of the Nith. When he
returned home with a set of verses, he listened attentively to his wife singing them, and if
she happened to find a word that was harsh in sound, a smoother one was immediately substituted;
but he would on no account ever sacrifice sense to sound.

During the earlier part of this year Burns had taken his full share in the political contest
that was going on, and fought for Heron of Heron, the Whig candidate, with electioneering ballads,
not to be claimed as great poems nor meant to be so ranked, but marked with all his incisiveness
of wit and satire, and with his extraordinary deftness of portraiture. Heron was the successful
candidate, and his poetical supporter again began to indulge in dreams of promotion: 'a life
of literary leisure with a decent competency was the summit of his wishes.' But his dreams
were not to be realised.

