He says, "There is a priest I know of was looking along the ground like as if he was hunting
for something, and a voice said to him, 'If you want to see them you'll see enough of them,'
and his eyes were opened and he saw the ground thick with them. Singing they do be sometimes,
and dancing, but all the time they have cloven feet." Yet he was so scornful of unchristian
things for all their dancing and singing that he thinks that "you have only to bid them begone
and they will go. It was one night," he says, "after walking back from Kinvara and down by
the wood beyond I felt one coming beside me, and I could feel the horse he was riding on and
the way he lifted his legs, but they do not make a sound like the hoofs of a horse. So I stopped
and turned around and said, very loud, 'Be off!' and he went and never troubled me after. And
I knew a man who was dying, and one came on his bed, and he cried out to it, 'Get out of that,
you unnatural animal!' and it left him. Fallen angels they are, and after the fall God said,
'Let there be Hell,' and there it was in a moment." An old woman who was sitting by the fire
joined in as he said this with "God save us, it's a pity He said the word, and there might
have been no Hell the day," but the seer did not notice her words. He went on, "And then he
asked the devil what would he take for the souls of all the people. And the devil said nothing
would satisfy him but the blood of a virgin's son, so he got that, and then the gates of Hell
were opened." He understood the story, it seems, as if it were some riddling old folk tale.

"I have seen Hell myself. I had a sight of it one time in a vision. It had a very high wall
around it, all of metal, and an archway, and a straight walk into it, just like what 'ud be
leading into a gentleman's orchard, but the edges were not trimmed with box, but with red-hot
metal. And inside the wall there were cross-walks, and I'm not sure what there was to the right,
but to the left there were five great furnaces, and they full of souls kept there with great
chains. So I turned short and went away, and in turning I looked again at the wall, and I could
see no end to it.

"And another time I saw Purgatory. It seemed to be in a level place, and no walls around it,
but it all one bright blaze, and the souls standing in it. And they suffer near as much as
in Hell, only there are no devils with them there, and they have the hope of Heaven.

"And I heard a call to me from there, 'Help me to come out o' this!' And when I looked it was
a man I used to know in the army, an Irishman, and from this county, and I believe him to be
a descendant of King O'Connor of Athenry.

"So I stretched out my hand first, but then I called out, 'I'd be burned in the flames before
I could get within three yards of you.' So then he said, 'Well, help me with your prayers,'
and so I do.

"And Father Connellan says the same thing, to help the dead with your prayers, and he's a very
clever man to make a sermon, and has a great deal of cures made with the Holy Water he brought
back from Lourdes."

1902.

THE LAST GLEEMAN

Michael Moran was born about 1794 off Black Pitts, in the Liberties of Dublin, in Faddle Alley.
A fortnight after birth he went stone blind from illness, and became thereby a blessing to
his parents, who were soon able to send him to rhyme and beg at street corners and at the bridges
over the Liffey. They may well have wished that their quiver were full of such as he, for,
free from the interruption of sight, his mind became a perfect echoing chamber, where every
movement of the day and every change of public passion whispered itself into rhyme or quaint
saying. By the time he had grown to manhood he was the admitted rector of all the ballad-mongers
of the Liberties. Madden, the weaver, Kearney, the blind fiddler from Wicklow, Martin from
Meath, M'Bride from heaven knows where, and that M'Grane, who in after days, when the true
Moran was no more, strutted in borrowed plumes, or rather in borrowed rags, and gave out that
there had never been any Moran but himself, and many another, did homage before him, and held
him chief of all their tribe. Nor despite his blindness did he find any difficulty in getting
a wife, but rather was able to pick and choose, for he was just that mixture of ragamuffin
and of genius which is dear to the heart of woman, who, perhaps because she is wholly conventional
herself, loves the unexpected, the crooked, the bewildering. Nor did he lack, despite his rags,
many excellent things, for it is remembered that he ever loved caper sauce, going so far indeed
in his honest indignation at its absence upon one occasion as to fling a leg of mutton at his
wife. He was not, however, much to look at, with his coarse frieze coat with its cape and scalloped
edge, his old corduroy trousers and great brogues, and his stout stick made fast to his wrist
by a thong of leather: and he would have been a woeful shock to the gleeman MacConglinne, could
that friend of kings have beheld him in prophetic vision from the pillar stone at Cork. And
yet though the short cloak and the leather wallet were no more, he was a true gleeman, being
alike poet, jester, and newsman of the people. In the morning when he had finished his breakfast,
his wife or some neighbour would read the newspaper to him, and read on and on until he interrupted
with, "That'll do--I have me meditations"; and from these meditations would come the day's
store of jest and rhyme. He had the whole Middle Ages under his frieze coat.

He had not, however, MacConglinne's hatred of the Church and clergy, for when the fruit of
his meditations did not ripen well, or when the crowd called for something more solid, he would
recite or sing a metrical tale or ballad of saint or martyr or of Biblical adventure. He would
stand at a street comer, and when a crowd had gathered would begin in some such fashion as
follows (I copy the record of one who knew him)--"Gather round me, boys, gather round me. Boys,
am I standin' in puddle? am I standin' in wet?" Thereon several boys would cry, "Ali, no! yez
not! yer in a nice dry place. Go on with St. Mary; go on with Moses"--each calling for his
favourite tale. Then Moran, with a suspicious wriggle of his body and a clutch at his rags,
would burst out with "All me buzzim friends are turned backbiters"; and after a final "If yez
don't drop your coddin' and diversion I'll lave some of yez a case," by way of warning to the
boys, begin his recitation, or perhaps still delay, to ask, "Is there a crowd round me now?
Any blackguard heretic around me?" The best-known of his religious tales was St. Mary of Egypt,
a long poem of exceeding solemnity, condensed from the much longer work of a certain Bishop
Coyle. It told how a fast woman of Egypt, Mary by name, followed pilgrims to Jerusalem for
no good purpose, and then, turning penitent on finding herself withheld from entering the Temple
by supernatural interference, fled to the desert and spent the remainder of her life in solitary
penance. When at last she was at the point of death, God sent Bishop Zozimus to hear her confession,
give her the last sacrament, and with the help of a lion, whom He sent also, dig her grave.
The poem has the intolerable cadence of the eighteenth century, but was so popular and so often
called for that Moran was soon nicknamed Zozimus, and by that name is he remembered. He had
also a poem of his own called Moses, which went a little nearer poetry without going very near.
But he could ill brook solemnity, and before long parodied his own verses in the following
ragamuffin fashion:

    In Egypt's land, contagious to the Nile,
    King Pharaoh's daughter went to bathe in style.
    She tuk her dip, then walked unto the land,
    To dry her royal pelt she ran along the strand.
    A bulrush tripped her, whereupon she saw
    A smiling babby in a wad o' straw.
    She tuk it up, and said with accents mild,
    "'Tare-and-agers, girls, which av yez owns the child?"

His humorous rhymes were, however, more often quips and cranks at the expense of his contemporaries.
It was his delight, for instance, to remind a certain shoemaker, noted alike for display of
wealth and for personal uncleanness, of his inconsiderable origin in a song of which but the
first stanza has come down to us:

    At the dirty end of Dirty Lane,
    Liv'd a dirty cobbler, Dick Maclane;
    His wife was in the old king's reign
        A stout brave orange-woman.
    On Essex Bridge she strained her throat,
    And six-a-penny was her note.
    But Dickey wore a bran-new coat,
        He got among the yeomen.
    He was a bigot, like his clan,
    And in the streets he wildly sang,
    O Roly, toly, toly raid, with his old jade.

He had troubles of divers kinds, and numerous interlopers to face and put down. Once an officious
peeler arrested him as a vagabond, but was triumphantly routed amid the laughter of the court,
when Moran reminded his worship of the precedent set by Homer, who was also, he declared, a
poet, and a blind man, and a beggarman. He had to face a more serious difficulty as his fame
grew. Various imitators started up upon all sides. A certain actor, for instance, made as many
guineas as Moran did shillings by mimicking his sayings and his songs and his getup upon the
stage. One night this actor was at supper with some friends, when dispute arose as to whether
his mimicry was overdone or not. It was agreed to settle it by an appeal to the mob. A forty-shilling
supper at a famous coffeehouse was to be the wager. The actor took up his station at Essex
Bridge, a great haunt of Moran's, and soon gathered a small crowd. He had scarce got through
"In Egypt's land, contagious to the Nile," when Moran himself came up, followed by another
crowd. The crowds met in great excitement and laughter. "Good Christians," cried the pretender,
"is it possible that any man would mock the poor dark man like that?"

"Who's that? It's some imposhterer," replied Moran.

"Begone, you wretch! it's you'ze the imposhterer. Don't you fear the light of heaven being
struck from your eyes for mocking the poor dark man?"

"Saints and angels, is there no protection against this? You're a most inhuman-blaguard to
try to deprive me of my honest bread this way," replied poor Moran.

"And you, you wretch, won't let me go on with the beautiful poem. Christian people, in your
charity won't you beat this man away? he's taking advantage of my darkness."

The pretender, seeing that he was having the best of it, thanked the people for their sympathy
and protection, and went on with the poem, Moran listening for a time in bewildered silence.
After a while Moran protested again with:

"Is it possible that none of yez can know me? Don't yez see it's myself; and that's some one else?"

"Before I can proceed any further in this lovely story," interrupted the pretender, "I call
on yez to contribute your charitable donations to help me to go on."

"Have you no sowl to be saved, you mocker of heaven?" cried Moran, Put completely beside himself
by this last injury--"Would you rob the poor as well as desave the world? O, was ever such
wickedness known?"

"I leave it to yourselves, my friends," said the pretender, "to give to the real dark man,
that you all know so well, and save me from that schemer," and with that he collected some
pennies and half-pence. While he was doing so, Moran started his Mary of Egypt, but the indignant
crowd seizing his stick were about to belabour him, when they fell back bewildered anew by
his close resemblance to himself. The pretender now called to them to "just give him a grip
of that villain, and he'd soon let him know who the imposhterer was!" They led him over to
Moran, but instead of closing with him he thrust a few shillings into his hand, and turning
to the crowd explained to them he was indeed but an actor, and that he had just gained a wager,
and so departed amid much enthusiasm, to eat the supper he had won.

In April 1846 word was sent to the priest that Michael Moran was dying. He found him at 15
(now 14 1/2) Patrick Street, on a straw bed, in a room full of ragged ballad-singers come to
cheer his last moments. After his death the ballad-singers, with many fiddles and the like,
came again and gave him a fine wake, each adding to the merriment whatever he knew in the way
of rann, tale, old saw, or quaint rhyme. He had had his day, had said his prayers and made
his confession, and why should they not give him a hearty send-off? The funeral took place
the next day. A good party of his admirers and friends got into the hearse with the coffin,
for the day was wet and nasty. They had not gone far when one of them burst out with "It's
cruel cowld, isn't it?" "Garra'," replied another, "we'll all be as stiff as the corpse when
we get to the berrin-ground." "Bad cess to him," said a third; "I wish he'd held out another
month until the weather got dacent." A man called Carroll thereupon produced a half-pint of
whiskey, and they all drank to the soul of the departed. Unhappily, however, the hearse was
over-weighted, and they had not reached the cemetery before the spring broke, and the bottle
with it.

Moran must have felt strange and out of place in that other kingdom he was entering, perhaps
while his friends were drinking in his honour. Let us hope that some kindly middle region was
found for him, where he can call dishevelled angels about him with some new and more rhythmical
form of his old

    Gather round me, boys, will yez
    Gather round me?
    And hear what I have to say
    Before ould Salley brings me
    My bread and jug of tay;

and fling outrageous quips and cranks at cherubim and seraphim. Perhaps he may have found and
gathered, ragamuffin though he be, the Lily of High Truth, the Rose of Far-sought Beauty, for
whose lack so many of the writers of Ireland, whether famous or forgotten, have been futile
as the blown froth upon the shore.

REGINA, REGINA PIGMEORUM, VENI

One night a middle-aged man, who had lived all his life far from the noise of cab-wheels, a
young girl, a relation of his, who was reported to be enough of a seer to catch a glimpse of
unaccountable lights moving over the fields among the cattle, and myself, were walking along
a far western sandy shore. We talked of the Forgetful People as the faery people are sometimes
called, and came in the midst of our talk to a notable haunt of theirs, a shallow cave amidst
black rocks, with its reflection under it in the wet sea sand. I asked the young girl if she
could see anything, for I had quite a number of things to ask the Forgetful People. She stood
still for a few minutes, and I saw that she was passing into a kind of waking trance, in which
the cold sea breeze no longer troubled her, nor the dull boom of the sea distracted her attention.
I then called aloud the names of the great faeries, and in a moment or two she said that she
could hear music far inside the rocks, and then a sound of confused talking, and of people
stamping their feet as if to applaud some unseen performer. Up to this my other friend had
been walking to and fro some yards off, but now he passed close to us, and as he did so said
suddenly that we were going to be interrupted, for he heard the laughter of children somewhere
beyond the rocks. We were, however, quite alone. The spirits of the place had begun to cast
their influence over him also. In a moment he was corroborated by the girl, who said that bursts
of laughter had begun to mingle with the music, the confused talking, and the noise of feet.
She next saw a bright light streaming out of the cave, which seemed to have grown much deeper,
and a quantity of little people,[FN#6] in various coloured dresses, red predominating, dancing
to a tune which she did not recognize.

[FN#6]  The people and faeries in Ireland are sometimes as big as we are, sometimes bigger,
and sometimes, as I have been told, about three feet high. The Old Mayo woman I so often quote,
thinks that it is something in our eyes that makes them seem big or little.

I then bade her call out to the queen of the little people to come and talk with us. There
was, however, no answer to her command. I therefore repeated the words aloud myself, and in
a moment a very beautiful tall woman came out of the cave. I too had by this time fallen into
a kind of trance, in which what we call the unreal had begun to take upon itself a masterful
reality, and was able to see the faint gleam of golden ornaments, the shadowy blossom of dim
hair. I then bade the girl tell this tall queen to marshal her followers according to their
natural divisions, that we might see them. I found as before that I had to repeat the command
myself. The creatures then came out of the cave, and drew themselves up, if I remember rightly,
in four bands. One of these bands carried quicken boughs in their hands, and another had necklaces
made apparently of serpents' scales, but their dress I cannot remember, for I was quite absorbed
in that gleaming woman. I asked her to tell the seer whether these caves were the greatest
faery haunts in the neighbourhood. Her lips moved, but the answer was inaudible. I bade the
seer lay her hand upon the breast of the queen, and after that she heard every word quite distinctly.
No, this was not the greatest faery haunt, for there was a greater one a little further ahead.
I then asked her whether it was true that she and her people carried away mortals, and if so,
whether they put another soul in the place of the one they had taken? "We change the bodies,"
was her answer. "Are any of you ever born into mortal life?" "Yes." "Do I know any who were
among your people before birth?" "You do." "Who are they?" "It would not be lawful for you
to know." I then asked whether she and her people were not "dramatizations of our moods"? "She
does not understand," said my friend, "but says that her people are much like human beings,
and do most of the things human beings do." I asked her other questions, as to her nature,
and her purpose in the universe, but only seemed to puzzle her. At last she appeared to lose
patience, for she wrote this message for me upon the sands--the sands of vision, not the grating
sands under our feet--"Be careful, and do not seek to know too much about us." Seeing that
I had offended her, I thanked her for what she had shown and told, and let her depart again
into her cave. In a little while the young girl awoke out of her trance, and felt again the
cold wind of the world, and began to shiver.

I tell these things as accurately as I can, and with no theories to blur the history. Theories
are poor things at the best, and the bulk of mine have perished long ago. I love better than
any theory the sound of the Gate of Ivory, turning upon its hinges, and hold that he alone
who has passed the rose-strewn threshold can catch the far glimmer of the Gate of Horn. It
were perhaps well for us all if we would but raise the cry Lilly the astrologer raised in Windsor
Forest, "Regina, Regina Pigmeorum, Veni," and remember with him, that God visiteth His children
in dreams. Tall, glimmering queen, come near, and let me see again the shadowy blossom of thy
dim hair.

