 "On the globe, he does not feel at home, "said
Quandt. He, too, is often scattered, not he noted. The Nürnbergische Enthusiasm about his
wonderful memory to me is a mystery, a unique puzzle, my lord. "

My lord had enough. From drawing, painting and wanted to know my Lord no more, he interrupted wanted
to show the teacher, the samples, and interjected that his training
in these minors while desirable appears that he did not put much weight
on.

"Desirable, yes," said Quandt, "and the desirable but should be maintained. The spirit of a man
is like a nursery in which the beautiful and the useful side by side may thrive. I think the most
powerful incentive for the Hauser is his vanity. If one knows how to satisfy his vanity, you
can have it for anything. One more question, My Lord, you have special needs because of the
religious education?

I have been with Mr. Pastor Fuhrmann said, has offered to provide twice weekly for an hour Caspar
. Give The Bible, I started by themselves increase with him. "

Stanhope had no objection, he wanted to leave, but with an embarrassed
stuttering brought Quandt Now the district money on the table, his
wife was lying on the increasing inflation in the neck.

The Lord, the very Seigneur granted, summarily a grant, it was agreed that Caspar should receive
a lunch table for twelve and a night table for eight cruisers.

In order to cover up the evils of this discussion impression that it shamed and humiliated, expressed
Quandt's desire, His Lordship after their departure periodic report on progress Caspar send. Stanhope,
has turned up completely, this is left to his discretion. "It would be advisable, "suggested Quandt,"
Hauser's letters to your lordship as both exercises in style to be
considered.

I could, of course, without changing anything at the thought of correcting the major error and
write with red ink, including censorship. To always have a picture of his current Capabilities. "

Stanhope
took this idea beyond compare.

They were now in the hall, Quandt was again the oil lamp ahead. Suddenly, he bounced back and held up the
lamp.

At the banister stood a dark figure. There was Caspar.

Aha, obeys, Quandt it went through my head. He turned and saw the Lord fully relational at.

Caspar went up to Stanhope, and asked him in an agitated voice, again to his room to . Come
The count coldly replied that he had little time, Caspar may raise
his concerns here.

Caspar shook his head, the Lord thought better of Caspar had prudently, he put as if it cost
him to overcome, to gratify the desire, then went with small, counted
as steps ascended the stairs.

Quandt was unsolicited and stayed in the room stand up as a mute person near the door.

Casper said he wanted to show the Lord like the diary, but this may
promise him nothing to read it.

The Lord folded his arms across his chest. This he was really too
colorful. But he said with the tranquility of a perfect self-control:
"You can well believe me that I no your consent will not penetrate
into your private affairs. "

Caspar opened the drawer of the chest
box and lifted the corner of a Seidentüchleins, which was below the
blue book. I have the custody of the still in my Home because
border Caspar Mayor Binder and Professor Daumer and pass it left to them, Caspar to leave
here or for the remaining period of his stay are increasing in the city itself. A notice of impending
or even a hint is from my side against the youth have not already done, and I must confess without
Hehl, that prevents me from some unconquerable fear of it. Caspar believes still stiff and firmly
that he should stay with his exalted protectors to England or Italy, it appears one, if only temporarily
removing the Count as a matter of impossibility, and the one who brings him such a customer
would have to have a divine persuasion order to reconcile him with the new circumstances. My
humble opinion, it is a Error, the boys turn to bring in close relationships that will never satisfy
him, his thirst for life and activity are not able to breastfeed. The slope of his ideas has
a fatal insolence won, he is among peaceful bourgeois outgrown his eagerness to learn in recent
months was zero, all his thoughts, his whole Quest is directed to the Lord, and when it is going
now Earl Stanhope by him, then I I am sure he an unfortunate companion, a useless and pitiful,
for any social context dissolved member of human society is left behind.
 But you ignore his offer and his generous
love are totally unworthy. "

Caspar surprised. Of such advice, he knew nothing of the count, rather the opposite: he denied, therefore,
that the Lord like I said. Since it Herr von Tucher switching with contemptuous Rest a liar,
which it is evident that the so-erected as the system of education not even for its creator as proved
strong enough to outbreaks indignant passion and to limit hold wounded
self-esteem.

The principles were finally beaten in the flight. Herr von Tucher was the unedifying Battle-weary,
though determined not to keep any longer Caspar, he postponed the execution his intent to return
the count. In order not by the constant sight of Caspar exposed to pain of disappointment to be,
he accepted an invitation from a cousin and went for the rest of the summer on a farm near Hersbruck,
where his mother had been stayed three months. Since it was vacation time and the teachers in any
case not entered the house, took he taken in the teaching Caspar's no action, he recommended
him diligent self-study, took care of his daily needs, he had four silver coins back on pocket
money cold and went to leave, the supervisor of the police about
him and an old servant of the On leaving the house.

Caspar was counting the days and every last dash with red chalk on the calendar. The silent
house, the deserted alley, brooded in the sun let him be alone are constantly felt. Society,
he had no stranger, who came still numerous, many more, since the passionate participation of
Lord Chesterfield as the foundling surrounded by a halo, were not
allowed to visit the old acquaintance he had not want to.

In the evening he sometimes took his diary and wrote, as he was then the friend closer It was
like a conversation with him separated by a distance. Without the vow of silence forget about
what he entrusted to Stanhope, but was in such a way the paper privy to the mysterious hints.
But out of his way to take it lit, clear, that he could not in the least find their way there.
It was a fairy tale. He understood than the construction of the orders, not the labyrinthine,
convoluted structure of the human Society. Nor was the castle with its wide halls, a dream
since the showers were flying unknown stars. Only to go home was his wish that this word had meaning
and power.

Alas, when he awoke to understanding; only escaped when the darkness, the lost hiker judge how far he
has been slyly from his goal.

Caspar was the beginning of September, the first short message from the Count, which is also
his imminent Return filed. His joy was great, but her pain was added to an unsuspecting, as
could exist between him and the friend will not be as before, as if his time Face transformed. For
each car rolls, each ringing at the gate, his heart expanded to Jumping. When the expected length
appeared, was no Caspar loud powerful, and he staggered the only way and spread, as if he doubted
the truth of the phenomenon. The Lord changed Posture and facial expression, it looked as if he moved
a superior being different for later, the Lurking in his eyes sank
into the softer emotion, in which the young man said he always perhaps
the only man to whom he had to concede power over his affairs and
his skill He also drags behind him as the hunter captured the game.

He found Caspar bad looking and asked him if he had enough to eat. The report on with Mr. von
Tucher prolapsed dispute drew from him only sarcasm, but he seemed no more bad mood about it.
'Have not you sometimes think of me, Caspar?

" he asked, and Caspar replied with the look of a faithful dog. "Much
more"

Then he added: "I've even written to you, Henry."

"To me write?" Repeated the Lord surprised.

"You did not know but my stay!"

Caspar pressed her hands together and smiled. "In my book have I written
it," he said.

The count was nervous, but he turned friendly. "In which book? And what have you written? May
I not read it? "

Caspar shook his head.

"Well, secrets, Caspar?"

"No, no secrets show you but I can not do it."

Stanhope broke off the conversation, took the right, however, to investigate the matter to the
bottom.

He was again staying at the "Wild Man" but he lived differently than before. Each meal He ordered
champagne and expensive wines, and drove the most burdensome, as it was his aim to do to show wealth.
He brought his own carriage, whose wheels were gold-plated while at bat arms and coronet were displayed.
As servants, he had a hunter and two chamberlains, and these three
braided excited the wonder of Nuremberg.

He did not hesitate to renew his request for the release Caspar Hauser. In support of his favorable
state assets he had, apparently in passing, points to the letters of credit, which he had left
since his return at the market superintendent Simon Merkel.

It lay in a gesture by boasting, as so small sums are hardly worth mentioning, but in fact were
the Letters of credit, issued by German exchange houses in Frankfurt and Karlsruhe, from giant
Height.

The magistrate looked every valid objection against the wishes of the Lords robbed. In the Assembly
of the city fathers was raised the question: so why? What he really wants with the house? Then
read Mayor tie with particular emphasis a passage from the Communication from the count, which stated: "The
undersigned feels the more the occupation is to accept the unfortunate foundling, as he at
long association with him that even a father's heart soothing experience has made him like
this very childish mind in loving devotion and gratitude is shown. "

must "questions so we told the house itself," it, "you know if he feels like the count to . To
follow "

Caspar was quoted in court.

In deep emotion he said he was convinced that the Mr. Graf take the deepest interest in his
fate, said the count to go with do this where it will lead.

Despite all this delayed the formal approval of the magistrate by a number of first illusory
and elusive circumstances, but by and by considerable resistance to grew until they finally
procured in a single voice heard, what no one dared to resist.

The excessive zeal of the Lord, to assure the person of Caspar's move, the underground grumbling suspicion
always up.

His pompous appearance displeased the citizens, a modest living, even in large, more faith gives
to one extravagance, only the bad instincts of the populace fostered. It exasperated when the count
in his Ceremonial body drove up, selected with the intention of the busiest places and to the
right and left Copper coins to the people scattered, which then, everyone would bar, in front
of the careless condescension enthroned stranger rolled in feces.

It was said that Stanhope by the market superintendent Merkel on the letters of credit toward
high totals have borrowed. Merkel, though he seemed assured, was cautioned, it was the rumor that the
Lord should attack the papers did not, or only to a prescribed Border.

Meanwhile, Herr von Tucher had returned from the country. The development of things he was known,
it intended to make for his part, a clear end. He wrote to the Lord a fairly extensive letter
in which he eventually placed it with a choice: either the Youth to take it all to him and the
Baron, his responsibility to duty to dismiss or suspend an annual contribution, which would ensure,
Caspar Einem and agree to pass educated man in full, in the latter case, His glory however,
have the goodness to all intercourse with Caspar in writing and orally for the duration to abandon
several years and he in turn would connect to it like, the regular Lord Report on Caspar's
doings to pay.

In the other version of the letter but offered were of the Devotion. "With the warmest thanks have I,
Mr. hochzuverehrender to recognize the countless proofs of benevolence,
that you have showered me in the few weeks of your being here, "it
said in other things, "from the depths of my soul, I lay the unfeigned
admiration of the day to which force me your kindness and your generosity
rare. arises from this disposition me the duty of trust to which you
have asked me so many times, and thus to enter I propose to you, noble
man, straight and open mind with the confidence that you think words
give a sympathetic ear.

Caspar is not the one for which you seem to keep him. How could you get to know this strange
hybrid, as it indeed in dealing with Them, to whom he owes everything and of which he expects
everything to be desired meaning, and that everything to attend, in the best light to shine.
Count! You have it manifested a friendship how to give a single equals. With the unlimited vanity
with which has disfigured the Nature and so rich gifts of his soul and the simple-minded people
was brought up here yet, you have innocent as a poison in his sick in itself Being mixed, not
a psychiatrist, not even the most skillful, will it ever again to remove. I am of anything further
away than you make it a reproach, I urge you not to also do find
one. They are out of debt.

But I must find that during the whole time that Caspar was in my house, no Occasion was to be
dissatisfied with him while he dahi since your stay, I say with a bleeding heart, and with the timidity
that I love and reverence for you, excellent Man command, as converted and wrong is. "

Such language had to flatter even the most discriminating ear. Nevertheless, there is Lord Stanhope
appears to have been challenged by the letter of the Baron and injured to be language, it also
everywhere in society. In a petition to the district court in Ansbach, which proved to be necessary
and which he announced his willingness not to ensure only during his life for Caspar Hauser,
but also its conservation for the to secure the event of his death, he mentioned that between him and
Mr. von Tucher conditions had occurred to him for now and future impossible for any traffic and it
is therefore of importance that Caspar was being transferred soon as far as possible in a different environment.

Councilor
Hofmann Ansbach hastened to Lord of cloth from the veiled accusation of Lords to teach. Herr
von Tucher was beside himself. He said the authority addressed to his Stanhope Letter word for word,
again described in dark colors and the pernicious influence Count on Caspar's character and
requested a speedy discharge of liability of a guardianship, to him,
as he put it, worries, troubles and burdens, and finally ingratitude
and blame his honest will, have drawn.

As the Official Ansbacher an opinion on the person the Lord wanted, he wrote back that he had
the count as a rare man of excellent properties met. The rumor also call him a very wealthy, Himself
say, an annual pension of twenty thousand pounds sterling, so three hundred thousand Guilders, to
enjoy what income the way it as Earl and hereditary peer of Great Britain sit still far below
the rich nobles of his country. "Provided that the highly laudable Guardianship authority obtained
sufficient security, "he concluded his powerful long letter," even those who are serious about certain
economic situations in England digestion, I have guardian against the adoption Caspar Hauser by
Lord Stanhope, particularly in financial terms, no objection. "

A cumbersome process, an endless chain of command. Stanhope already struggling with impatience
and anger. But despite the busy seemed gossip and the conflicting opinions all obstacles are removed,
and he found himself pursued by a slow start toughness Targets near, when suddenly it was all destroyed.
The President Feuerbach put namely its veto against the removal of Caspar from Nuremberg. He
sent a messenger to the private Mayor Binder and let him know that he just returned from his
spa treatment in Karlovy Vary and what is in the works as the perfect hear news. He said any
decision before He checked to him confused and suspicious appearing case and the steps required
have endorsed.

The mayor found himself connected to the Lord at once by the new turn of events in Knowledge
to share.

Stanhope received and read the note binder while in his hotel just he was shaved. He pushed
aside the barber, jumped up and ran, still with the lather on his cheek, violently excited by the room.
It took some time before he's Bathroom duty reminded again, he tore
up the note, sent him the tie, in a hundred small pieces and then
sat under the razor with a face so full of hate and bile, that the
hand of the frightened barber began to tremble and he was finished
when piece made from the dust.

Too late thoughtful the count that he had forgotten himself, but how sensitive was the impact
be taken of him if they increase the iron calm and restraint on the purpose of such Umpanzerten
was shocked!

With receding hand, he wrote a few lines, closed and sealed the letter, let the hunters come,
ordered him to saddle a horse, and told him the message before the expiry of forty-eight to spend hours on
the spot, 'no matter what the cost.

The man went away in silence. He knew his Lord. He knew that his master did not dealt with
jokes, love affairs and petty intrigues. He knew this face of his Lordship, the voltage of
a terrible either-or, the air of a strained Races, this spasmodic version of the gamble. It had been
like riding often taken by day or night, you had to have a discreet
tongue to the uneasy hide ingredients such duties before a curious
world can, because it had often seems as if the mediator of shady
business is.

Speed ​​was always services; we always got along well, but that "food" is what the cost "was
a bit aufschneiderisch, it was not always his reward, we often had to wait weeks and secretly
to the Snatch chunks that were removed from the count's table, His glory was just not in cash, money
was expected from England or France or even one was make money at any Lord sent, and it was striking
that the count Demand was met not often zealously, the distinguished gentleman was in his own language
rather remember something of contempt than of reverence for the person
of the Lord.

What was hanging everything? Where were the threads that this raised over the fate of mob tied
to the common call of nature? The noble descendant of a noble race, his days in a miserable hovel
fristend, one of the proudest names of a proud kingdom, depending by the friendliness of a sleazy
landlord, damn, his life, Mark and Kern own feet to get in the mud to reveal the severe memory
untouchable ancestors for what? What was hanging everything?

Any present hour was a ruin of the past, each day, the wreckage site of a Former Golden, formerly,
as the name of Stanhope in the capitals of Europe, nor those role played, the wearer himself appeared
only as a myth, as the young Lord been the delight of the salons of Paris and Vienna, as he was
rich and wealth was used to saturate his extreme youth and to the world of his peers the spectacle of
a waste to give to none. His feasts and banquets were been famous. He had traveled from country to
country, with a retinue of cooks, secretaries, Chamber servants, craftsmen and fun. He had on a pergola
in Madrid for twenty-five thousand Livres flowers can be distributed to the women. He had the Congress
of Vienna, the kings and princes entertained, Competition, organized the only swallowed a fortune,
and oratorios and can perform operas for their own account.

Its luxurious moods, the Company held in breath, he presented his friends with mansions and
estates, and his friends with pearl necklaces. He was for years the Timon of the continent have
been around which an army of horny parasites urged that all made their profit, their extravagant
desires of him and satisfied with him. His kindness and generosity was proverbial, his way, always
filled with Gold hands to spread around him, heedless of whether it fell into the gutter or
on the carpets, was like the madness or a great test of human greed.

Then the end: Fallissement and suicide of a banker accelerated the inexorable Collapse. It was
a summer evening in the Palais Bourbon, had played high, Stanhope lost many thousands, so
charming chatter seemed to be unbiased, the fire and grace his mind. The Minister, Lord Castlereagh,
approached him and made him a hasty release. He looked pale, a melancholy smile of his own
ice on the delicate features, other Day he was traveling. He believed in the home of the retired
life of a country gentleman to, this failed. The goods were in debt, on all sides urged creditors
Also he shuddered at the solitude, he hated the people loose nature. He fled. The gloss past
had to borrow for a scrap of existence, which gradually eroded from the inside was the fear for
mere bread. It was quiet around him, his features were walking a hunt for the former friends
and comrades, but suddenly there was no one left not all had known and jump out from a safe damnation
preaching. In a Roman Hotel, he took desperate, exhausted, hope all cash, strychnine. A young
Sicilian habit and saved him. The poison that had left his body seemed to to take possession
of his soul. He wrestled with the demon who stabbed him, and he was wild and cold, bordering on
the sublime his misanthropy easier for him, the weaknesses its environment to use. He went
into the service of high masters and studied the dirty Mysteries of their hall and their back
stairs. He was an emissary of the Pope and paid Agent Metternich. Soon his name was crossed out
from the list and those of the Faultless Numbered among adventurers taking part in the border
counties of the company a formidable Korsarenrolle . Play The extraordinary talent that he had made
him no difficult task, and the incessant compulsion to act, the variety of relationships stifled the
voices of Conscience and the sense of dark disgrace. Top ostracized and shunned by all utility,
He was still in the lowlands of the illustrious man, he was a skilled hunter of men and soul
catcher, and what the pressure of misfortune had sprung, was métier; the irresistible, gentle
smile, profession, and the noble manners, the gallant conduct, the winning conversation the
excellent education: all profession, every twitch of the eyelashes, every bow was a businessman;
everything has consequences, all cause a careless word could the
failure of a task mean - and yet how full of privation was such an
existence, miserable as the reward!

And as it slowly went downhill in all this, go into the little one, as if the chain where he
preferred to by itself and without being loosened, limb by limb put down to him into the abyss
. Tug

One day was called the war slogan Caspar Hauser. The order was clearly, clearly his source, the circumstances
dark as anything before. They said: You're the right man, the company is difficult but rewarding,
it seems of little significance, but monstrous is on the game.

The negotiations were not conducted face to face, it was all behind Curtains hiding, each intermediary
took the word of a nameless master. The ghosts drift excited the imagination, the abyss began
to shine. The spinning of the plan had some of lust, and the rare bird had to be crept masterly.

Yes,
the order was clear he had hand and foot. You have the foundling from the field to distance at which
it starts to become dangerous for us, was the transfer; take it to you, take him to a country
where nobody knows him, let him disappear, it falls into the sea or throw him into a ravine
or rent the diameter of a Bravo or let him incurably sick, if you
get up on quackery, but the work should perform thorough otherwise
we will not serve.

Our gratitude you're insured, we record our thanks to the sum in Israel and the blue stone
in X.

What to consider? Not all could be over. Any hesitation was already guilty; to eliminate the
idle Wisser was a penalty for that. There was no choice. The beginning of the Company was
far behind, even then, where you sent the assassins in Daumer's house Stanhope had orders
to intervene, if they stop on which he himself was not involved, should not succeed. The brutality
and depravity of the means it deterred insulted his good taste, shook
up his better nature.

He fled, he hid themselves. The misery and impending hunger lured him back into the yarn,
and so he set out on "Further" distance to ensnare his victims.

But how strange was already the first meeting and being together! What a voice! Welch an eye!
What shook the spoiler and tore it down? He was infatuated, he! This bird knew how to sing, had
not thought of netting. Suddenly he felt loved. Not as women love, he had received information
that can be appreciated and we forget it in the river is the reason things, chance and instinct
have equal share in it; not as men love or parents or siblings or a child loves, law and appropriation,
Need and will bind the creature to their peers, but rests in the
deepest rivalry, battle and hostility.

But this was different, unexpectedly and miraculously moved the beauty of a soul to the walled
heart.

There is a legend that tells of a country where no dew or rain fell, so was Drought and water
shortage, because only one well was the water in the first large
Depth contained, as now, people began to languish as a young man came
to the fountain, of the zither and played his instrument as sweet
melodies elicited that the water to the mouth of the well rose up
and then flowed in abundance.

Just as the fountain happened to the Lord, when the boy was with him Caspar and the sweet Melodies
of his being played. His spirit rose from the depths, a wailing eyes flew backward; Shame ignited
the quivering mind, it seemed easy to make the sore undone, he found himself again, he beamed from
the face of the image are still unblemished Youth receive and be what he could have, if not the
fate crushes his noblest would, he found himself taken, believed and glorified. And so true, so
rich, so groundless bestowing that the most infamous villain miser
and his chest ransacked for valuables had just to get rid of the pain
of debt.

But he was - nothing. He could not give himself, for his person was
prescribed in advance, His life was paid for by those he served his
day and his night's pay, paid his remorse, his dissent, his guilty
conscience. As we walked along I told
her that my mother often said, when we fancied ourselves ill-used and very unhappy, if we looked
about us we would generally find that there was somebody even more miserable than we were ourselves. He reminded the
Russian Admiral to the Treaty of Paris. Senjavin gave a hesitant answer by saying, that the contract,
although completed and signed by the negotiators, not yet been confirmed by the tsar would.
Meanwhile Marmont learned that the Slavic army in the near Castelnuovo Bocca get reinforcements.
There is also a rumor swept the country, that the Slavs were thinking of continuing the war.
The French general was thus no choice but to prepare themselves for battle. With great haste
he had two fortresses construct, the one on the above Ragusa-position and the mountains Sancto-Sergio
second one on the first item, not far. Emphasis is laid on the friendship with Turks from the
neighboring Bosnia and Herzegovina. He established friendly relations with the Agha of Mostar,
with the Pasha of Trebinje and the vizier of Bosnia to. He made them some gifts in weapons and
mountain guns. [42]

Since the ideas were repeated at Senjavin not, marched his army Marmont to the area of ​​Castel
Nuovo before. A truce was on 14 August between Senjavin and Lauriston been completed, who is
still valid. At the small harbor Molonta he placed on the mountain to its batteries and also
met with Ostro many precautions.

Meanwhile, the imperial military police came and took the command of the Czar of 12 August his
army to continue the fight immediately. That Alexander the contract Oubril of 20 July refused
to recognize that had Senjavin experienced before, and knew also some bokel leader type. The
imperial messenger now confirmed what a general joy in the Slavic camp and throughout the Bocca caused.
On 12 September, at the Day of Celebration the Tsar, said Senjavin with the secret that the war was
to be opened again soon. [43] Preparations were made, as far as this one was not. came from
Corfu on command Senjavins Major-General Popondopuli with other infantry divisions, which he in readiness
on the island had. The Russian regular army was 3,000 men, the number of Bokel and Montenegrins
6000 was man [44] The Russian fleet consisted of 22 warships, including 12 ships Cruisers were.
The Bokeler also had a considerable number of merchant ships, which now were used for war.
These were of course small, but just so easy to steer and especially good fit for the narrow
bay di Cattaro, where the big warships with Effort could turn around.

9. The fight at Castel Nuovo.

The French troops had advanced to the vicinity of Castel Nuovo. They tried to take for themselves
the ground and to entrench themselves in very close proximity to the front Slavic stock. Therefore,
it was already on 14 September because of a small collision between those forces and a division of
volunteers under the command of Georg Graf Voinovic from Castel Nuovo
and Vuko Radonic from Njegusch, with the French, with some losses
had to retire.

[45]

In order to prevent the advance of the French, it was even the naval gunfire from the Russians
used. The French had taken possession of the Cape Ostro namely, a Point, which dominated the entire
Bay, from where the Russian fleet believed Marmont the output from the bay to be able to block.
Senjavin recognized the danger and fired at about The French ship with guns when they appeared
on Ostro and there to sought to entrench. [46] As the strong and incessant shooting in the camp
near Castel Nuovo was heard, everything was ready. On 25 September the Vladika attacked with
his men the French people of the opposite side. These were forced to the Cape to leave and
moved to Molonta back to their strong attachment. But on the evening the same day she had to
give way even there the Montenegrins, taking 38 guns and numerous other war material left behind,
what the Vladika was welcome. The French were always on the edge of the sea coast, and retreated
slowly. Only on the Debeli Breg they stopped and dared to resist, but only for a short period,
which translated to further continue their flight. On the second day they were pursued further
and further. The Russian Army caught up with the Montenegrins in Debeli Breg and united with them.
The French finally reached their camp in Zavtat.

In another very strong entrenchment in Vutche Zdrelo the French had at that last day a violent
clash with a detachment from the Bokeler Risano under the leadership
of Count Sava Svelic.

Stormy, they were attacked by the Risan and Forced abandonment of the fort, after which their
previous occupation hastened back to Zavtat.

Marmont loved one swift action. He did not want to be in Zavtat (Ragusa Vecchia) of starve out
the enemy and can include. He thought of a new offensive. Even in the Night between 29 and 30 September,
he withdrew from the camp at about 6000 [47] man. A reserve division, he left behind in Zavtat.
With 6,000 soldiers, he marched against now the enemy. The night was dark, it rained heavily. The
progress of the French was slowed. They preferred, however, bravely throughout the night. Marmont
hoped the Montenegrins, the most shore the river Liuta had pitched for the night, even as to surprise
the darkness. He came too late. The storm was to blame. When it dawned, he was still a mile
from Liuta away. His attack led Marmont very cleverly.

He sent the Supreme Plan Zone ahead with a battalion. He should follow General Lauriston to
support. Marmont himself advanced with the rest of the army as a reserve after [48].

The attack was strong. The Montenegrin outposts were driven back to the Camp on the river, where
was the Vladika. After a fierce battle in which he fell into great danger, the Montenegrins
went with a loss of 60 men to the heights back from Moidesch, Mokrino and Kameno. General Popondopula
came to the aid of the Montenegrins. He set up his forces to the Moidescher mountains, while the
Montenegrins from since retreated to fill the canyons between Castelnuovo and Risano, so they
covered the rear of the army. The surveys of Mokrino Kameno and were now occupied even more.
The position of the Russian general was now a lot of excellent, because the French. Marmont
ordered from Lauriston with two battalions against this enemy unit. But the first assault Lauriston
was repulsed by the Russians. Marmont was Lauriston with immediate reinforcement, consisting of a
battalion of infantry under the command of General Launay. The battle lasted seven hours. The
Russians were extremely after courageous and hard attacks on the withdrawal of the French and
gave their position on the height award. They did but only after a desperate resistance, with the bayonet
was one of the French invaded. Approximately 250 men, Russians and Bokeler let their lives on the
battlefield. The Russians took their direction of Castelnuovo and were pursued relentlessly
by the French. This persecution went to Cape Ostro and took in the face of the Russian Fleet
still continues until this brought the grape the French to a standstill
and yours the Return to Castel Nuovo allowed in this way.

On 1 Marmont October started a new fight. General Lauriston, he sent against Kameno and Mokrino
where Bokel and Montenegrins were, and the General Delzons against the Russians from Castelnuovo
to elicit these and cut off from the city. He also ordered that all Farmhouses in the area
to light the city and burn. «C'était la punir Rébellion même dans son foyer, "[49] explains Marmont.
It was also a Turkish village, Schwinje, burned, because the villagers of the demanded end to
help the French wanted to do. The Montenegrins in Kameno Mokrino and not waited until they approached
the Lauriston had moved but as soon as they were in his view, with rage before, so he immediately
had to withdraw. To the second division, under General Delzons, the "avec vigeur» [50] The troops
led, as Marmont himself testified, the guns fired from the two forts Castel Nuovo and Espagnola and
out of the fleet. This moment is as follows Marmont (This is consistent with the reports Slavic):
"Le 2 octobre, au moment où je faisais incendie les beaux Faubourg de Castel Nuovo, malgré
le feu ennemi de la flotte, à mille douze cents paysans [51] et quelques attaques les Russes
vinrent postes de ma gauche, et les surprirent les à se replier obligèrent. "[52] When the left wing,
under General Lauriston, pushed back was, he joined with the General Delzons. He had also suffered
a lot under the Fire from land and sea. Marmont gave Italian Guard in support. The Struggle
was by the hour and more violent. The mass of the people from the surrounding villages and the whole
Bocca they gathered at the scene of the fight. The minor children as the old man rushed into
the camp of their brethren fighting to Castel Nuovo, to help them somehow to assist. The battle
lasted all afternoon. The Montenegrins jumped heaps under the French. Terrible scenes were shot as
they can only imagine there where the opponents pile up furiously loss with dagger and revolver
against each other. Most recently, to the French in their camp in Sutorina pushed back. It
was deep night when the last shots were fired.

To the dawn of the 3rd October resounded from the cries of the Montenegrin guards near Sutorina:
"Who is a hero to! The Frenchman flees! "[53] The French were already gone. On the night retreat
to Zavtat ordered Marmont. He saw clearly that it is quite would be pointless to continue engaging
in a battle against the fortified Slavs in Castelnuovo. He could not proceed against Castel Nuovo, without
the cross-fire of the forts in the country and get to the fleet on the water. Because only
one side, from this dangerous from, you could march from Sutorina to Novi. A bypass was excluded because
of the steep mountains, which hang down over the city.

was heard as the cry of the guards in Castel Nuovo, the Montenegrins rushed to her Vladika according
to the French. In two hours, this was requested. Since Marmont not in the fight wanted to get
involved, he just accelerated his move. Meanwhile, Russian hunters were and pursued in conjunction
with the Montenegrins Marmont again hardest. Many dead and wounded remained on the streets are.
The fire shots directed at the French major damage at. At last they reached Zavtat, where they
entrenched themselves, and the Montenegrins went laden with booty. [54] The report, which
left us by this retreat Marmont has is quite different. He writes: "J'avais Precaucion mon
but et montre à ces peuples barbares ma superiorité sur les Russes (namely, the struggle at Castel
Nuovo). Je me le retirai 3, en plein jour, à la vue de l'ennemi. Rentre à Raguse-Vieux, mes troupes
reprirent le camp qu'elles avaient cinq jours auparavant quitté. La terreur était adjusting the ennemis,
que pas un paysan n'osa me suivre. "(!) [55] If we all Russian and Serbian reports of the battle
of Castel Nuovo and examined by a French withdrawal from Sutorina Zavtat to their common features
through and we only consider this report Marmont, so we have some very striking . Happen Marmont
would have defeated the Slavic army at Castel Nuovo, it remains to be hasty retreat to Zavtat
completely inexplicable, because that place 17 km away from the battlefield was. If he had
really won, and when have been so terribly big "la terreur of ennemis» would, it is the biggest
mystery for us if he does not follow this "terrified peasants" wanted. His goal was, Castelnuovo
and Cattaro defeat or at least the country . Occupy Nothing that he had achieved. Why, then, without having
achieved a retreat thing? To another place where he draws the result of the fight at Castel
Nuovo in Recital says Marmont: "Ainsi l'ennemi, qui comptait mettre à feu et à sang Raguse
et la Dalmatia, n'avait pas pu défendre son territoire et ses propres foyers. "[56] Was the so-so
nothing was the General the way to keep this territory under his control. Castel Nuovo is
the strongest point throughout the Bocca. Those who have occupied this place, who is the master
of the country. If this point So by the Slavs could not be defended, as the General says it,
it would He can fill Castel Nuovo. But he omitted it altogether, and moved on to Zavtat back. He
left indeed all other fortified posts, which he can build yourself or the Slavs had taken
as Molonta, Liuta, Ostro, Sutorina, Kameno and Mokrino. Anyone who reads his report with more
attention and consideration when he also Ground to which it is here, do not know, must face an
inexplicable mystery. And everyone knows of these landscapes and critical cross compliance
reports which Marmont confronts, must include the fact that the French were defeated at Castel
Nuovo and are therefore retreated rapidly as far as Zavtat pursued by Bokel, Russians and Montenegrins.

After
the battle Senjavin issued a proclamation to the Bokel and Montenegrins from which we only report
the following excerpt here: "Soldiers, you have not only great heroism and shown great bravery,
but also all done and you follow instructions properly ever be praiseworthy in everything. The
boldness of the enemy to fight of our country venture, has been punished.

Because of your perseverance, the enemy was surprised that so many people has lost that when he collected
no new powers and a new struggle is to dare. As I welcome you as a winner, I thank you that you
have treated the prisoners well, and hope that humanity will not hurt later ... etc. "[57]

This document is the best testimony to the close of the war in Castel Nuovo.

10. The Bocca during the ceasefire. Occupation of the islands.
 The remaining route was without remarkable Incidents,
it was a quarter past three when we reached snow in front of the Star Inn; I had hard time effort
to bring the houses up from sleep, and only when I saw him vigorously yelled at, he decided to get
off the coach. Since only the goalkeeper was present and I did not wanted to raise the count,
we brought the young people in a chamber under the roof, and I told him to go to bed, locked the
greater safety sake the door from outside and told my sergeant, till the break of the day to
remain on guard. Should I now, in conclusion about the person and the conduct of Kuranden give a
verdict Sun I must confess that I wrenched the young man some sympathy or compassion. His sealed,
defiant and devious nature can be one, if not corrupt, yet rotten and adverse character close.
From wonderful qualities I have observed in it nothing but a wonderful, in fact talent for acting,
what else is to say the least. I fear you will experience some hiesigenorts disappointment in
him.

Ties on Feuerbach:

To prevent the distant all superfluous talk and conjecture, in the same case may have already reached
to Your Excellency, serving the news that I had already sufficient insight have about the mysterious,
lasting four to five hours on the last remaining Caspar Hauser Afternoon of his stay in this city.
Of course, this decomposition is basically none, For as little as the young man himself had to
explain to explain to me so little known become all the details of
his actions.

I will be brief. The morning after departure of Caspar Hill prison guard came to me and reported
that the houses were yesterday afternoon after one with him appeared on the tower and asked to
show him the chamber, where he had once been caught. Coincidentally, on that Day is not a prisoner
on the Luginsland, and he, Hill had, after some questions and wondered Caspar research can
occur. After a while he stood there pondering, he went in the same corner, where once his straw
was crouched on the floor and brooding silence to himself. The Hill was the strange, and since
all experiments, the youth of his lethargy to tear, lack of improvement, he returned to his
apartment and made his wife Communication from the incident. They were thinking about just what
to do, because even came from Caspar down the steps and entered the little room that was used
by him also well known However, he looked through with piercing eyes thoughtful, just as in the
above cell done. Hill and his wife thought otherwise as the poor man had lost his mind. The
woman approached him, asked a few questions, but received no answer. As was to be roving eye on
the kids of the keeper's off together on a kick at the window played, and suddenly he smiled very
strange, crept up and sat on the edge the increased passage through
the soil down.

Hill did the most sensible thing he could do, he let him and waited to see what it would be. After
Caspar thus established, he began the two children in a way to stare, as if he had never seen in
life children, he bent forward, he studied formally her fingers, her lips, his eyes devouring
ravenous speak any of their Sign, while the woman was frightened
and afraid, with difficulty kept Hill from her, down between them,
for he feared nothing. Like a grumpy cat lurks us and hisses
at us when we whistle a little. He takes care of everything, whether the streets are returned, whether
the milk is watered down, everywhere he is behind, but he has gallantry not in his body. The
only thing he understands thoroughly, he is a sharp knife, and to hold worship, Count, if you have
to do with him, you have to praise everything that comes to his table. "

Stanhope graciously dismissed the talker, he called the servant's clothes, for tomorrow to be
repaired, and went to bed. The next morning he got up late; sent his minions into the apartment
of Feuerbach and ask for an interview was. The man came back with the message, the Lord of
State today can and probably in the next Days, not received, he would ask his lordship to inform
him of the concern in writing. Stanhope was furious. He realized that he was in a hurry, and
went immediately to the Councilor Hofmann, had recommended him.

Meanwhile the news had spread of his presence, and after another twenty-four Hours was already
a legend cycle woven around his person. A half-dozen Goldguineen filled bags were strapped to
the touring car of the stranger, they said, and he wanted to buy the castle, along with the Marquis
Hofgarten, he leads a bed with goose down with himself and embroidered linen, he was a cousin
of the King of England and Caspar Hauser biological son.

Stanhope, cool up in the kidneys, saw himself as the center of small-town Chattering and it
was satisfied.

The Councilor had been able to give him any explanation about the behavior of the president. To
advise the official steps, seeking the archive director of worm that
Feuerbach enjoyed great confidence.

Stanhope felt that it was only with timid caution on the matter;
amtssässigen the men could boast of no-free relationship with a man
whose Hand like iron burden on them.

In the evening, followed Stanhope's
invitation to a family. "Here are fearful Secrets,
Caspar, "he whispered dully. "I'll speak and speak I must, but you must silent, no other people
than you may trust me. Your hand, Caspar, your vow! Heart man! Unhappy-happy, yes, I will take you
to your mother, Providence chose me to help you! "

Caspar sank down, his legs could carry him no longer, his head fell on his knees of the count.
The Air veins throbbed around him, a sob broke the enormous tension
in the chest. His wife could only provide insufficient notice, and he
rebuked so. "We must have to be careful, dear Jette," he said, "we the Keep your eyes open.
"

In fact, Quandt to fit. Like a diligent accountant he put in his heart an account to order all the
words and actions recorded his care wards. With this prudent Management, it soon turned out, that
should have each other and not the balance held, that the fault page was overloaded concern gradually.
The afflicted the teacher sincerely; However, there was a secret
nook in his chest, in which he was glad of it.

It was designed with this man that is such that it existed in a
curious duality. I guess terrible when I think
of the expectations of the youth in relation to the Count, a saint, a would be without equal,
if they fulfill all the promises would be associated with its occurrence were connected to Caspar.
And they are not fulfilled, fulfilled only one hundredth of they do not, so I predict a bad end.
For such a heart, lifted up from the depths opened up the life of the world from utter peace the
most extravagant blandishments, will all calls, the full measure of happiness or have cheated
just a little, an unmeasured Devastation succumb.

I confess that my black transparent temperament more than ever becoming undisguised Talk of the
locals me the boldness of such considerations is, how likely is also my Distrust on such a
highly placed man measured. But we speak of today, the fact that Caspar to Ansbach to come
into care. Woman Behold, the old enemy with Caspar, the Rumor around town and everywhere proclaimed
with glee that made the English Travel and castles in the air of the count had become nothing.
As I told my sister, Municipal Councillor had received indirect message from the teacher Quandt,
both women are childhood friends and grew up in the same house off together. God forbid that
Caspar learns something from this talk. I would be very grateful to Your Excellency, if You tell
me about it were accurate information so that I oppose the absurd gossip Sun can, as it is desirable
for the welfare of our protégé.

Feuerbach to Herr von Tucher:

The request Your Excellency was born as the need occurred abreast, share I would thus indicate
that you removed your post as guardian Caspar Hauser from today are. Why? He is usually
so clever! But when the woman lost even in death, so it will not better. And the people behind
you get everything, and I've told her that those are not friends, who tell such stuff, true
friends are not. "

"Well," Quandt was smiling and looked curiously at his plate. He overcame his sense of shame
and said with forced lightness, as if Mr. von Imhoff recently his wife again given cause for
concern was that its knowledge but only in March, a reconciliation
taken place.

"Yes, of course, he has been the occasion," said Caspar ease, "it is indeed a child again from
him since. "

Quandt was frightened. There we have it, he thought. And as hard as it got him, he decided to Caspar
to feel equal to the tooth. He moved with his wife a look of consent and asked her to look after
the children.

As the woman had now left the room, turned to the teacher, pale and excited by the difficulty
of his project, in Caspar and asked him suddenly if he ever had with a woman something, it subject
from different assumptions, and Caspar should talk openly like a
father to him.

These words Caspar agreed grateful, and he saw them as a sign of participation, although he did not
understand its meaning and purpose, but merely the dim element from
which they rose, scary suspected.

He wondered. "With a woman? So, how? "He muttered.

"My question is clear house, you face not so childish."

"Yes, I understand already," said Caspar hurry to forfeit not to the good mood of the teacher; "And
there's also been something."

"Well, just out with it! Cheer up! "

And harmless Caspar began to tell: "So about six weeks before I will
have my Sunday suit Erin carried into the plaster to Uzensgasse.

You know, sir, it is the small house next to the baker.

As I have gone, the store was locked when I'm up in the Apartment and went've knocked on the
door.

Since I was a young Mädle opened and was in night dress, then she
had nothing on his body, the whole breast has to be able to see It
was awful.

It has saved me the stuff and said she wanted 'it to the cleaning
woman . Align I was still at the door.

Come in, she says.

Since I am in and wonder what she wants.

Since she started before me herumzutänzeln, laughed and than others
Persuasive talk, asked me whether I want to be her bridegroom, and
finally - "He hesitated, smiling.

"Last? What end? "Quandt said,
as he leaned his head far.

»Last added she asked me to give her a
kiss."

"Now what?"

've "Then I told her she should do to another,
I do not understand me again smacking. "

"And next?"

"Next? Next
was nothing. I then went away and she gave me looked out the window.
"

"How could they notice that?"

"Because I've turned over '."

"I
see. What
should we think about the future Caspar, what hope of his good fortune, when threats unobscured
by such brutal nature could occur? The heart had become heavy. But was not the time to ponder.
I decided to go to the mayor and to consult with him. Anna had quickly prepared a bearing on the
sofa, she led her Caspar, and he fell down, and hardly rested his head on the pillow, he fell
asleep already. However, I am going away to getting ready, the doorbell rang, and Mr. Binder was
itself in a hurry I alerted him of what had happened, He was greatly surprised by the occurrence of the
Ansbacher Lord, and because he considered it expedient was to speak to this himself, he invited
me to accompany him. The lieutenant wants to speak with you. "

Caspar lay up on the sofa. It was a hot August day, storm clouds hung on Sky, the open window flew
over anxious twittering swallows, the heated humid Air hummed and
sang in the narrow room.