THE BOY SCOUTS ON THE TRAIL

By GEORGE DURSTON

THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY

AKRON, OHIO

Made in U. S. A.

          Copyright, MCMXXI
          By
          The Saalfield Publishing Co.

THE BOY SCOUTS ON THE TRAIL

CHAPTER I

PLANS FOR THE HOLIDAYS

"Where are you going to spend the holidays, Frank?"

The speaker was Henri Martin, a French boy of the new type that has sprung up in France since
games like football and tennis began to be generally encouraged. He asked the question of his
schoolmate, Frank Barnes, son of a French mother and an American father. Frank's name was really
Francois; his mother had that much to do with his naming. But he was a typical American boy,
none the less, and there was a sharp contrast between his sturdy frame and that of the slighter
French boy who had become his best chum in the school both were attending near Paris, at St. Denis.

"I don't really know, Harry," said Frank. On the opposite side of that to which he had approached Poldy, stood a dark and dilapidated
tower. All the land surrounding the lake was damp and vicious. Fumes malarious birds were scared
away from that place. Birds not glad with their songs and chirps as they did elsewhere in the
same forest. Almost sunk roots in water here and there were cattails and reeds in crowded clumps.
On the face of the sleeping water, then curled not the slightest breath of wind, extended the
blade and the round green and broad leaves of water lily, whose white flowers stood in the still
air. Foot of Poldy sank into the grass had grown very high. Every time fixed in the soil one
of her little feet, frightened frogs in the grass were hidden, and gave great jumping, splashing
in stagnant water. The noise was the water, Frogs duck it was the only thing that interrupted
the strange silence that reigned around.

Poldy, by hasty and curious instinct, he walked by the banks of the
lagoon to the site where the tower looked like.

And being already very close to him, suddenly saw an object that although she was not shy,
I was a nervous shaking, for being so suddenly and when least suspicious. He was a portly white
stork, who left behind the tower, and without the slightest fear, but gentle and serene, it
came up with step Poldy slow, grave and majestic. Occasionally shook his head from side to
side with a graceful coquetry. When was closer, took a few hops, extended and long wings flapped
as a sign of joy, and repeatedly opening and closing the red peak, was a son very similar to
castanets. Turning then to walk more slowly and with some hesitation, as if respect him contained,
kept walking toward the bird pilgrim Poldy, and stopping every two or three steps as if waiting
for the permission to get to it.

Poldy understood the intention of the bird, not fear anything because
he was considered harmless, but missed that show him as loving and
as resolutely as long strides as he strode spandrels came to her as
if she were an old friend.

Would you have known and dealt before and did not remember then? Poldy sought in vain by all
the deepest and forgotten breast of his memory some vague memory of that knowledge and treatment.
Was not the least trace even the slightest trace if any have ever had. The same could be seen
than ever stork Poldy had met because, although could not quite express in any human language
but only castañetazos resonant with its peak, slow of gait, their frequent stops and each
of the looks that way to her brown eyes seemed to mean interrogation Poldy and supplication, as
if to say: charming Countess, may I see I close and treats? There was also in a stork do not
know what the exotic: a weird way of being, well similar to that note in a traveler of distinction,
came from very remote countries, with whom by that stumble and struck up a conversation without
thinking or intending, and only because of sudden and mysterious sympathy.

Poldy undoubtedly sympathized with the stork. I fell in grace and earned him the will to compliance
respectful and friendly, so the stork gently looked at her. Admitted, back in himself, knew the
stork treat people as they deserved, and that naturally was endowed
with exquisite good manners, but because parenting is not learned,
but rather should ease called fine or refined touch of world.

Finally, Poldy acquiesced to treat the stork without anyone present and not knowing who was
or how many quarters did, she gave also to her a few steps, and reached out and pleasing in his
head touched.

The stork was left was stroking and satisfaction and caresses those noble taste caused him, squinting
eyelids as if asleep and gently rubbing the long neck on the cover of the lovely lady. It
passed the hand down the neck of a stork, lowering it to the width crop, all covered with abundant
and white feathers. Then he realized with surprise that the stork had there, suspended ribbon
very subtle, a small piece of silk fabric, which flexible and crowded, was very little bulk.

Poldy
could not resist the curiosity or the desire to seize defeat from that pledge. Soon So broke
the tie bar through the garment hung the bird's neck and was with the garment in her hands.

It is not known if frightened or angry then the stork which might consider stripping, removed the
lady suddenly, spread his wings, flew, soared into the air and finally out of sight.

Poldy was embarrassed as if he had committed a theft villain, but in the end, dismissed the scruples,
thinking that she had had no intention of staying with the garment and was ready to return the
bird if the bird came back to it and somehow the claim.

Poldy unraveled after more than a meter of ribbon was wound into the fabric of silk, giving form
of ball, and unwrapped the cloth, which was the color of apricots,
was written in it with very black ink in strange lines and several
tiny letters.

She looked at them and the Remiro, but in vain, because no one knew. Though he knew and exploited
moderately disciple of his brother, Count Henry, could not quite intently to determine which
alphabet language and those symbols and words belonged. He suspected, however, that registration
silk fabric were in Sanskrit, a language he studied assiduously and enjoyment of his brother Count
Henry.

III

Poldy the castle again spurred by curiosity and eager to decipher
his brother he what the web said.

Lunch with very good appetite, and then, while the widowed Countess asleep after lunch, as was his
custom, he went to the library with her brother Henry told him about the bird mosquito, taught
him the silk fabric and begged translate what he had written it.

Count Henry confessed that he was well versed in the language to translate
Valmiki suddenly the verses, as undoubtedly were verses there were
in the fabric, but requested time and promised her sister have an
exact translation of all on the same day.

Indeed, just hours after the count sought Poldy, took her back to
the library, and triumphantly showed him the verses and translated.

-
Do not know what to think, he told his sister.

Sometimes I imagine that the stork came from India, where spent the winter, and the verses
are the work of a Brahman, or Nabob Rajah well illustrated, and sometimes,
I suspect that it may be a learned countryman of ours who wrote the
verses and who hung the cloth on the neck of the stork to tease the
one who find.

- What end - Poldy said, was to propose a countryman
of ours with that cheating?

I not yet know the verses, but I assured that the author lives on the banks of the Indus or the
Ganges, and not on the Rhine or the Danube. Let's see ... read.

- You'll see and you'll find some inspiration in the verses more European
than Asian.

Compositions are three: two very short, and one of these two seems modeled on four lines of
the Prologue in Heaven of Faust. The coincidence is unlikely. And, although not impossible,
I find strange and suspicious that a brahman read Goethe and imitate
him.

- Come on, read the verses without further preface.

- The verses
say:

I wish to heaven the brightest star; I call this land their
fullest; And no love near or distant love Touched my heart quieted.

-
True, "said Poldy, the verses are very similar to those of Goethe,
unless the poet self says what it says Mephistopheles of Faust.

-
Well, hear these others who have not stopped metaphysics which Christian
mysticism by Tauler style of the teacher or Eckart:

Without wings
and without light the human mind In vain in search of the ideal is
released; But the will goes boasts The immensity of eternal hope.

-
That's true, - said Poldy, and the same can happen to an Indian, a
Christian.

In India since ancient times, so I've heard, mystics as deep as Germany. Moreover, in all countries,
must have been thinkers and poets to imagine and express that could penetrate and come up with
a love that never goes up and enters the rationale by subtle and large it is.

- I will not argue.

I agree that a Brahman may have composed the song that just tell
translated.

    Maybe I in the translation I have rendered
    a European look in the original does
    not. Hear now the final composition.
    The poet falls in it lifts mystical, and folds and human as any earthly
love with love and sensuality inspire women.

Something, however, is still in the composition of the mysticism of others. It's like a small
piece of the Song of Songs, or better say the Gita-govinda, whose
compliments, tenderness and material descriptions can be interpreted
by otherworldly style and transcendent.

The composition in this case also has a uniqueness that has neither the erotic romance of the
Hebrews and the Indians.

    Crishna Solomon saw, heard and touched
    beautiful and love your friends, but
    this poet or touch or see, or
    hear his, if not the imagination with vague uncertain, and in such
a manner that it can live on this planet in another very remote, and
the same may be our contemporary, to be born the last forty centuries
or even be waiting another forty in the world of ideas, before it
reaches the day of his incarnation and its occurrence among people
of our caste.

- Very curious is what you tell me, but it is not original
or new.

It's so hard to be new and original! Do not you love Elena Faust, who lived 2500 years before
he was born? Is there no Arabic or Persian tale, where a Muslim prince, who lived two hundred
or three hundred years after Muhammad, is madly in love with some queen or princess of Serendib
or Sheba, which flourished in the days of Solomon and was Sulamita rival?

- All that is true, but even more vague and indeterminate Mrs. thoughts of our Indian poet. The
Muslim prince in love with the rival Sulamita had found and admired the portrait of her father's
treasure, while there is no picture or is there any indication through which to glimpse or have any
idea or notion of his lady, the author of the verses I have translated. Hear them carefully.

-
I'm all ears.

Count Henry read thus:

Where are you hiding, my beauty, they do not get to see my eyes, As I dream of my fantasy Full
of grace, free of anger?

Come do the Kokila sweet gurgles Do pay the lotus aroma in the wind Come see my longing wish And understand
you my understanding.

You're not dreaming, you really are; Do not pretend these spells soul, Although most beautiful
women Yours will call the immortals.

In the pure light in your eyes Love lights your darts gold and your lips are sealed ballot box
Source of their pleasure and treasure.

Ora reside off the ground Ora show up in another age, For the three worlds in rapid flight I will
go looking for you.

Bright pearl, though hidden In the deep sea are, I find you know,
it's my life For me des exalted prize.

    Poldy heard the verses carefully
    and discussed them with his brother
    and even tried with apparent
    critical coldness, giving some merit and pointing out their many
flaws.

    What she concealed and not revealed
    or his brother or anyone, was the swarm
    of assumptions and dreams verses
    that arose in his imagination.

    Already contained writing them
    an elegant look young brahman, not
    far from his magnificent villa,
    in green bower, on the fertile banks the Kausikí, as composed in
his own palace Ayosia Crown Prince of Kashmir or any other of the
kingdoms and countries that described the ancient epics.

    But the author of the verses
    was a contemporary of her and looked
    her end by the disease and passion
    that tormented him.

    Loved or rather wanted to love,
    nothing worth seeing around
    him of his love, and looking away,
    blindly and without guidance the rare and precious thing that deserves
to be loved.

    
    
    In the depths of his soul Poldy pondered
    much on this, and wove and wove countless stories, their feeling
beautiful, with which she delighted in secret without telling anyone,
not even the old governess Justina who was his confidant.

IV

Engolfadísimo in their studies, Count Henry had no will or understanding but to continuance. In
other matters of life was always subject to the understanding and Poldy will of her sister, whom he
loved greatly. Prohibiole it to speak with one of the meeting of the stork, the verses and the
translation, and Count Henry obeyed and I stopped everything.

Poldy did not want his mother to know of anything.

The Dowager Countess was a lady endowed a positive spirit so prosaically, would certainly have
destroyed all his speeches the poetic assumptions pipe Poldy had risen and that in no way wanted
She nobody tear down.

The widowed countess and Zaheri also accused his daughter frequently, calling it extravagant
of dreaming, hallucinations, a staunch enemy of the wise and reasonable, and reckless unattainable
ideal persecuting and absurd. If the widow Countess of thought and ignoring Poldy the success
of the stork, did not they think and what would not say if he knew?

Poldy not return, then, to talk about him or his own brother, as if his own brother ignore,
or as if she had the pretense that he forgot.

Alone, then, and freely, Poldy be included as they desire, the author
of three poems.

Already assumed in Varanasi, and Delhi, and Calcutta, and elsewhere in India, but always noble, young
and beautiful, and Kshatriya or Brahmin, if not a prince.

The unknown character suffered a mental illness similar to Poldy.

Symptoms were contempt and disgust for his surroundings, and the vague desire for a good remote,
dimly layout and a half vanished in the mists and vapors of a thousand
dreams.

Poldy discarded by vulgar and foolish belief of his brother, a German
scholar had Sanskrit verses composed for entertainment or to show
their expertise.

For her there was no no doubt: the verses were the work of a distinguished young gentleman from
India.

Poldy We often went further in his bold imagination. She did not believe that the bird mosquito
that had appeared to him had the slightest resemblance or the swan Leda nor the white bull of the
brave daughter of Agenor, but might not be an instrument of the stork
a great sage, perhaps a genius or a fairy, whose powerful suggestions
had obeyed coming to visit?

Who will dare to limit the extent possible? If we were not to believe only what we understand,
only we would believe anything.

Sometimes came to the memory of Poldy a story of the Thousand and One Nights, and delighted to boast
that what she had spent some resemblance to the story. In the more elevated regions air, met
one night a fairy and a genie who were flying in opposite directions.

There he talked and confided that the fairy came to visit and leave the most beautiful sleep Prince
was in the world, and that genius, from the other end of the earth, came to contemplate and admire
a beautiful princess also asleep in his bed virgin there in the recesses, elegant and perfumed
boudoir of his magnificent palace. Genie and Fairy proposed that Prince and Princess to meet,
fall in love and marry, and the media to turn to do up the mess of that history. Poldy, while smoothing
much the supernatural, and modesty, for the skepticism that is so characteristic of the century
This, he suspected that everything that happened could very well be quite naturally something
that coincided with the oriental tale.

She had heard and had even read recent works dealing with Theosophy, which is • In India, some
scholars called Mahatma, which force and regular introinspección Honduras examination in itself
be able to acquire great and rare find secrets of nature, by virtue
of which perform actions that look miraculous, but are not.

Would not it be perhaps the author of three poetry mahatmas any such business that Poldy had
guessed, he had interviewed mentally, he had taken with her and • to communicate their views
and send infuse his lines without much surprise, half had used the bird naturalísimo mosquito,
which takes proper condition, nothing of witchcraft and other evil arts, to spend the summer in
Austria and winter India?

Thus mused Poldy, forging and disrupting fantastic cases. It was like a child that entertains
in keeping up with care and good balance and complicated high house of cards, then knocks
him for fun and games raising others.

In short, Poldy not know what to expect or why their minds. No statement itself what Castles
raised by it was the most liked. What I could not fail to recognize was that the task of lifting
and • demolish the no small delight.

V

Poldy sought solitude then more than ever.

In discussions with his brother, his mother and his nurse, appeared distracted. And We often
avoiding any company, would give solitary walks through the forest.

Even ordinary comparison as well as can be surmised and envisaged that the most CONSCIOUS to find a sweet
candy is good, and guessed that insurance Poldy again to find the stork on the banks of the
pond where he found the first time. There was such abundance of frogs, lizards, frogs, toads
and other vermin, which was the land of promise that bird to mosquito, which, by their large size
and the extraordinary length their wings, covered in extreme shiny and black feathers, knowing
that was left male. What Poldy not manage to determine was whether the bird was married or single.
Poldy he was always seen as just did not understand their language, not asked if he was married,
and in Spain we often ask the parrot, which respond to the question.

It was also a mystery to Poldy where the stork nesting.

He saw the shores of the lagoon. The bird castañetazos greeted with loud, hopping and flapping
wings, which open covering more than two feet.

It was one of a kind notabilísimo individual merit.

He seemed pensive and thoughtful, but very good things should be quiet. Poldy waiting in vain
and even fantasized about the miracle of the stork speak, but the
eloquence of the stork ever went beyond the usual castañetazos and
some grunts and whistles out of tune, which were all his language.

With this, nothing could be made clear.

The stork was very friendly and very gentle with the young Countess.

No grudge against him because would have taken the fabric of the verses. Rubbed his head and
neck from the garment the pretty lady, and seemed to like that she pass a hand through his long
neck and wings, preening him.

These silent conference, which took place two or three times a week, lasted little and we can say
that they were very entertaining. Moreover, the stork had the instinct not to bore, and conferences
always ended quickly and in a sharp, darting suddenly in the air, tracing graceful spirals in
the serene flight of the day out of sight.

He spent the spring, spent the summer, came after the fall, as always, and finally began to appear
in winter. Poldy then had inklings that the stork was about to emigrate and return no doubt the
dream palace, to the eastern city, the temple or the fifth, where the author dwelt verses.

Irresistible was the temptation he felt to write. Why was there not to do so by style prudent and
decent that did not commit?

Poldy also thought that although it was not unlikely that by operation of the jinn or Fairy or
under mahaturas science, the author of the verses have been achieved clear vision of it, would
never be more than enough to send a good picture of her in photography.

In our times does not mean this very decided favor. Any subject, the most plebeian of fatal, could
be bought for a florin Poldy portrait, exhibited in the windows of many Shops in Vienna, among
the beauties of the court and the theater, including princesses, actresses and dancers. If
any ragamuffin Poldy compatriot could have its image, what audacity or impropriety which would
have to send it through to the wading birds poet incognito I could not but be a prince, nawab,
Brahmin or Kshatriya, back in the land of Rama and Sita, Nal and Damayanti?

Given these considerations and others in the same order, which are omitted here to avoid prolixity,
Poldy, wrote a long letter, very thin paper to bulge slightly, took a picture yours, without
board, on which picture was very pretty in her low-cut and elegant suit dance, included it in
an envelope with strong backing fabric closed and sealed with wax;
wrote above: the unknown Indian poet, pierced with a punch the card,
ran a strong the tape through the hole, and thus prepared everything,
hung it around his neck as if the stork was the insignia of Commander
of any illustrious Order.

The stork was very still, waiting for Poldy properly secure your
neck tape no breaks and that the letter did not fall. And just realized
that was well decorated, gave a tremendous leap, took flight, soared
into the air and flew with such verve as if the long and steadily
India branch.

Let her go in peace, while we, who are all the secrets,
come on to copy here what I had written Poldy, which was as follows: Officers need them to get around quickly. Generals cannot ride now--it
is too slow to use a horse. You have heard of Leon Bollet?"

"No. Who is he?"

"He is a famous automobile driver in races. He has won the Grand Prix. He will drive a general.
He is a soldier, like all Frenchmen, and that will be his task--to drive some great general
wherever he wants to go."

That was how the meaning of mobilization really came home to Frank, who learned more from the
things he missed that he was accustomed to seeing than from new sights. In the boulevards,
for instance, where as a rule the little tables in front of the cafes would be crowded, all
the tables had vanished. That was a result of what was happening. Everything brought the fact
of war home to him. To him it was even more vivid perhaps than to Henri, who had been brought
up to know that some time all this would come about, and saw little that he had not been sure,
some time, of seeing.

The crowds delayed them. Sometimes they had to dismount from their wheels and walk for a space,
but in the end they came to their destination. Madame Martin, Henri's aunt, greeted him with
delight.

"We were thinking of you, Henri!" she said. "Your uncle said to me only to-night, when we heard
of the mobilization: 'And what of Henri? He cannot go home yet.' I knew you would come to us!
And you have brought a friend? That is very well."

"Oh--an American!" she exclaimed, a moment later. "You have done well, my nephew."

"I'm half French," said Frank. Somehow he was beginning to feel very proud of that. These last
few hours, that had shown him how France rallied in the face of a terrible and pressing danger
had made it easier for him to understand his mother's love of her own land. He was still an
American above all; that he would always be. But there was French blood in his veins after
all, and blood is something that is and always must be thicker than water.

So he had to explain himself, and when he spoke of the uncle who was to come for him Madame
Martin looked concerned.

"I am glad that you are here," she said, simply. "It may be hard for him to get here. But we
can look after you until he comes. There is room enough--and, ma foi, you shall have all that
we have!"

CHAPTER IV

THE RECRUITS

August was drawing to its close. And still Henri and Frank were in Paris. Henri's father and
his uncle had gone to the front; Frank's Uncle Dick, if he had tried to reach Paris or St.
Denis, had not succeeded. Or if he had, he had been unable to get word to Frank. War in all
its terrible reality was in full blast. Troops were passing through Paris still, going to the
front. But they were older men now, the last classes of the reservists. Every night, too, the
city was dark save for the searchlights that played incessantly from the high buildings and
from the Eiffel Tower. For now there was a new menace. The Germans fought not on land alone,
but in the air. At any time a German might appear, thousands of feet above the city, prepared
to rain down death and destruction from the clouds.

Paris was quiet and resigned. Wounded men were coming back; hospitals, from which floated the
Red Cross flag, were everywhere. The hotels were sheltering the wounded; churches, theatres,
all sorts of buildings not commonly so used were in the hands of the doctors and the nurses.
There were few newspapers; there was neither paper on which to print them, nor men to run the
great presses or write what they usually contained. All were gone; all except the old and the
children. Hundreds of thousands of men were still in Paris, but they were the garrison of the
city, the men who would man the forts if the Germans came.

And now, to get the news, Harry and Frank went to the places where the bulletins were posted,
becoming a part of the silent crowds that waited. Every day they took their places in the crowds,
to learn what they could and carry the tale back to Madame Martin. She was too busy to stand
among the crowds herself; every day she was doing her part, helping in the nursing, and helping,
too, to relieve the distress among the poor.

One day the two friends turned away. They had seen the last bulletin; for some hours there
would be no more news.

"I'm afraid it's not going well, Harry," said Frank.

"No," said Henri, almost with a sob in his voice. "It looks to me, too, as if the Germans were
winning!"

"But many thought they would win, at first," said Frank. "It's not time to be discouraged yet,
Harry. At first we all believed the Belgians were doing better than they could do--because
they fought so well at Liege. Now Namur has fallen. And the English--they are falling back."

"Ah, well, that is so," said Henri, brightening a little. "We did not expect to fight in Belgium,
we French. Wait till they try to enter France! We will stop them--at Lille, at Maubeuge, at
Valenciennes!"

"I hope so, Harry," said Frank, soberly. "But do you know what I think? I believe we ought
to go to your home at Amiens. I think you have been waiting here on my account--because you
thought my uncle was coming. Well, I think he couldn't come. I am better off with you. And
perhaps I can help, too. I think you should go to your mother, if she is alone at Amiens, because--"

Henri turned on him fiercely.

"Do you mean you think the Germans can get to Amiens?" he cried furiously. "Never! Never! They
will never come so far! They will be stopped long before they get near it!"

"I think so--and I hope so," said Frank. "But if my mother were there I should want to be there,
too. I've read a great deal about war and battles lately, Harry, and I know that often an army
has to retreat, not just because it's beaten, but because it's necessary for battles that are
planned later on. The English and the French toward the coast are retreating now--on the left
of the allies. They are moving back toward Amiens, and the Germans are following them."

Henri continued to argue bitterly against the possibility that Frank suggested, but his arguments
grew weaker. And when he told his aunt what Frank had said she sighed despairingly.

"I, too, have been thinking that," she said. "These are terrible times for our poor France.
We shall win--everyone believes that. But we shall suffer greatly first. I have talked with
General Broche--you know him, Henri. He is too old and weak to fight now, but he was active
in 1870. And he says--he says that the government may move soon, away from Paris!"

"Then they think--!" cried Henri, almost overcome.

"They do not know--no one knows. But if there is to be another siege, it is better that the
government should be where the Germans cannot bottle it up. I shall stay here, but I shall
be safe. There are plenty to do what I need. Go to Amiens, Henri. Your place is near your mother.
If there seems to be danger, beg her to come here, or even to go to her friends, the Douays,
in Nice. There at least all will be safe."

Henri did not argue with his aunt. It was hard for him to realize the truth, as it was for
Frenchmen older than himself. But he admitted it to Frank and even to himself, that night.
And so the next morning they started for Amiens. An officer, returning to the front after bringing
despatches to Paris, agreed to see that they reached the northern city safely. Without him,
indeed, they would have found it difficult, if not impossible, to get aboard a train, for while
other railways were open those that led to the front were entirely in the hands of the military
authorities.

But thanks to the friendly officer, a friend of the Martin family in Paris, they reached Amiens
quickly enough. On the way, more than once they passed long trains carrying wounded, and, several
times, other trains on which were packed German prisoners. These, under close guard, looked
out sullenly from the windows. The sight delighted Henri.

"That doesn't look much as if we were losing, does it?" he cried happily.

Amiens itself was a smaller Paris. In times of peace, Amiens is, like many other French cities,
a curious place, owing to the contrast between its character as a busy, bustling, manufacturing
town, and its other character as a place where there are many renowned examples of ancient
art. But now it was quiet save for the ever present soldier. Troops were passing through the
streets; in the station several hundred were entraining.

"Do soldiers go from here, too?" asked Frank.

"Yes. Amiens is the headquarters of the second army corps," explained Harry. "All the reservists
of that corps report here, no matter where they live. When a regiment loses a lot of men, if
it is in the second corps, new men from here go forward to fill their places. There is no sign
of the Prussians, eh?"

"No," said Frank. "I hope there never will be! But, tell me, would they fight here? Are there
fortifications?"

"Not new ones--no," said Harry. He pointed to the old citadel crowning one of the hills that
commanded the town and the crooked, twisting course of the Somme river. "There is the old citadel.
That still stands. But the ancient battlements have been dismantled. I believe that in time
of war, if the enemy got past the troops in the field, they could come peacefully into Amiens.
It is not a fortress, like Lille or Maubeuge. Oh, look, there are some of the scouts! I see
Monsieur Marron. He is the directeur of the troop--the scoutmaster. Let us speak to him."

They went over to a tall man in khaki, who was speaking to an officer in the red and blue uniform
of the French army. Henri saluted, and when the officer went away, the scoutmaster turned to
him with a smile.

"Well--so you are here, Martin," he said. "Are you going to join? We will waive formalities--we
need all the scouts we can get."

"Yes, sir, and I have brought a recruit. He is half French--the rest of him is American. But
he wants to join, too. May he?"

"Certainly," said the scoutmaster. "Report to-night or in the morning. Get your uniforms. Who
is your recruit?"

Frank was introduced, and the tall Frenchman shook hands with him.

"You will be welcome," he said. "My boys are at work, you see. They are serving as messengers.
There has been plenty for us to do in these days, too. Pray God there may not be more--and
of a less pleasant sort."

Frank observed the French scouts with interest. They were in khaki uniforms, with wool stockings,
and short trousers that stopped just above the knee, and the soft campaign hats made famous
by the pioneer scouts in England. Indeed, they looked like the English and American scouts
in many respects.

"One moment," said Marron, checked by a sudden thought. "You speak French well?" He asked the
question of Frank, who smiled.

"Yes, sir," he said, in French. "My mother was French, you see."

"That is very good," said the scoutmaster. "Never fear, I shall be able to keep you busy as
long as I am here. Soon, I hope, they will let me go to the front, where I should be right now."

"I thought you would have gone, sir," said Henri.

"They wanted me to stay with my boys at the first," said Marron, with a shrug of his shoulders.
"But they can do their work alone now, and there is no fear that they will not do it well."

Then Frank and Henri went off, on their way to Henri's house.

"So we have come to Amiens after all and we are to join the Boy Scouts, just as we planned
that day when I said there would be no war this year!"

"Yes--but it's different, isn't it, Henri?"

"Yes, and we can be of some real use now."

"I am glad that we are here, aren't you? When we get our uniforms and go to work, I shall feel
that we are really being used in the war. I--I'm an American, of course, but I've hated the
idea that I was so close to this war and wasn't having anything to do with it."

"And I--I have been wishing, Frank, that they might have waited until I was old enough to fight
for France!"

CHAPTER V

THE FIRST DUTY

Morning brought awakening to the two friends with the sounding of reveille from bugles, seemingly
just outside their window. Together they sprang from bed, raced to the window, wide open as
it had been all night, and looked out. Not far away, in a small park, one of those for which
the city of Amiens is famous, they saw an array of white tents that they had not seen the night
before when they had gone to bed. Already the camp was stirring; even as they watched the soldiers
were all about. And early as it was, they saw a scout ride up on a bicycle, speak to the sentry
who challenged him, and wait. In a moment an officer came out, the scout saluted, and his salute
was returned as stiffly and gravely as it had been given. Then the scout handed the officer
a letter, saluted again and, receiving permission, turned away and vaulted on his wheel.

Henri was vastly excited.

"Come on!" he cried eagerly. "Let's get dressed, Frank. I see that we should be out already." Never could get to write
down your expenses and income. Doing it a number? Prior to death. And not for many, is lost.
To tell you that no one ever knew what was, or what promissory notes maturing date!

- True, sir, very true - Benina said sighing in anticipation of what D. Carlos I would after
that sermon.

- Because you calculate ... if I have in my old age a good run for me and my children, if I
need a Mass for the repose of the soul of my dear wife, it is because I always carried with
business method and clarity of my house. Today, retired from trade, took up the accounting of my
personal expenses and do not sleep without going all the notes to the agenda, and then in the ratitos
free, what happened to the Mayor. See you, see it to be convinced - added tremor scoring more
negative -. What I want is that Frances could take this lesson.

Not too late ... Learn about you. "

And took a book, then another, and was showing the Benina, who came to see as much digital marvel.

"Look
you. Here I point the cost of the house, without anything happening to me, even five cents
of a matchbox, the rooms of the postman, everything, everything ... In this other little boy,
the alms to do and what employment votes. Daily alms, so much. Alms monthly how much. Then they
spend all the staff, where you can learn, day by day, what I spend,
and make the balance ... You figure, if Frank had taken stock would
not be as it is.

- Certainly, sir, very true.

And I tell the lady to take stock, to take everything apuntación, which enters as what comes
out. But she, that is no child, can not apencar by the good habit. But it is an angel, sir, and
we should not notice if it points or no points for rescue.

- Never too late to enter the ring, so to speak. I assure you that if there Francisca seen even
intentions or desire to keep their accounts in order, would have borrow ... provide no, he
would have provided means to get to leveling. But it is a head screwdriver, you agree with
me that is a head screwdriver.

- Yes, sir, I agree.

- And it occurred to me ... for that I have called you ... occurred to me that the best gift I
can do to that this is unfortunate. "

Saying, D. Carlos took a long, narrow book, brand new, and put before him for Benin holding it.
It was an agenda.

"See you - good lord said flipping through the book -: here are all the days of the week. Note
well: on one side, the column should be, to another, that of Haber. See how in spending it mark
items: coal, oil, wood, etc ... For what it costs to be showing work here what is spent, and
this other party to enter?

- But if the lady did not enter anything.

- Candy! - Trujillo said slapping the book -. Something will, because her little consumer you
are doing, and any amount that consumption, long or short, small
or large, should have.

And what you take out of charity, why not sign up? Let's see Why not sign up? ".

Benina looked between angry and pitied. But the anger could pity, and there was a moment, a second
no more, they stopped short of taking the books and prints in the head Mr. D. Carlos. Containing
his anger, and for the accounting monomaniacal not I met him, he
said with a forced smile: "So the Lord says to us bitches give to
the poor of San Sebastian.

- Day by day - the old man proudly replied,
shaking his head lower -.

And I can tell you, if you want to know, what I have in three months, six in one year.

- No, do not bother, sir - Benina said, feeling again wanted to give a fillip -. Take the book,
if you want. The lady was so grateful, and I also.

But we have no pen or pencil to a remedy.

- Everything is for God. What house, however poor you are, no writing materials? Offered take
a firm, make an account, or sign aiming a household name not to forget
... You take this pen, which is sharp, and take it too, and when you
wear the tip, it takes you to the kitchen knife.

"

And all these, D. Carlos did not speak to give any positive relief, realizing his charity the
offering of the book, which should be the foundation of the administrative order in the mad
Hacienda Doña Francisca Juarez.

Seeing him move his lips to keep talking, and take hand the key in the drawer on the left, Benin
felt great joy.

"There can be no prosperity without administration - said D. Carlos, opening the drawer and
looking into it -.

I want Francisca manage, and when administered ...

- When managing what? - Benin said the thought -. What are you going
to give us, man crazy, crazier than those in Leganes?

So rot you all the money you save, and you become pus inside the body for busting, wallet of avarice.

-
Take your book and pencil, and take it very carefully ... will not get lost on the road. Well,
have you had your office? Can I answer that will point all?

- Yes, sir ... not leak or a verb.

- Well.

But now, to Frances my poor Pura remember and pray for her ... Am
you promise to pray for her and for me?

- Yes, sir, pray loudly,
until we drop the bell.

- Well, here I have twelve dollars, which
target the relief of the needy who are not determined to beg because
they are embarrassed ... Poor things! are the most miserable.

"

Hearing twelve dollars, Benina opened every eye as the door of a house. Christ, what she would
with twelve dollars! And was watching the rest of many days, meet many needs, cover some mouths,
living, breathing, give hand to request humiliating and punishment
of searching by means so tiring.

The poor woman saw heaven opened, and the hole dozen pesos, beautiful compendium of happiness
in those days.

"Twelve hard - repeated D. Carlos coins from hand to hand - but not the I in all, because it
would encourage waste: they are assigned ...».

Benin fell off the wings of the heart.

"If they are given, this time tomorrow and would not have a penny. I point out two dollars to
month, and every day 24 can you pick them up until they reach six
months and last September I'll see if I should increase or not the
assignment.

That depends, mind you, for me to know, concerning if given or not
given, if no order or follow the ... chaos.

Beware of chaos.

- Well, sir - humbly said Benin, thinking that he has had more satisfied, and take what was given,
without getting into issues with the eccentric and mean old man -. I I answer that will take the
notes to ministry, and we were not leak or a loose thread ... How I will spend the 24? Comes
in handy for household help. Increase the LORD, and Mrs. deceased have it in his holy rest ...
for ever Amen. "

D. Carlos, after scoring, enjoying it a lot, the amount paid, dismissed Benina with a gesture, and
moving cape and hat pulled down again, turn out not box but solemn days, he prepared to leave
and will undertake safe and secure devotions walk that day that began and ended in Montserrat
in the Sacramental San Justo.

XII

"The démontrer old - Benina Sena was said, getting a good walk in
the streets of Urosas - can not do more than what the natural demand.

Válgate God, when strange things Our Lord in the breeding of plants
and animals that, more rare in that makes people.

Not just a view truths that seem to lie ... In short, some are worse than the D. Carlos, that
after giving something, even if the expense and apuntación ... There
are worse and worse as ... neither point nor do they ... The story
is that with these two hard I can not fix the day because Almudena
would like to return to his, which is good to have him speak.

Bad days will come, and he will ... I have twenty real, which I shall
make a report to the girl, who is perishing, and the rest for lunch
today, y. ..

I have to tell your relative Mrs. I have not had more than the book of accounts, which will pen
and a pot that be very rich ... stock numbers and substance of the press ... What a laugh!
... Finally, for I have to say it lies at Doña Paca, God lights, as always, and we're pulling.
A Almudena see if I meet along the way, this is the time to get him to church. Y if we stumble
in the street, is fixed at the cafe de la Cruz del Rastro. "

And ran away, and across the street from the Knights were: "Son, your search was - he said Benina
taking him by the arm -. Here's your drive. You see that I meet.

- Amri, have no hurry.

- I owe you nothing ... And to another, Almudenilla, that day will come when you and me I lack serve,
and vice versa ... I will serve you Are you coming for coffee?

- Yes, and golvier if you want me. Tigo invite. "

Benina nodded to treat, and complained bitterly after a while the two sit-in coffee economic
taking two separate glasses for ten cents. The place was a tavern retouched, with ridiculous
between village and manor elegance, gold loud, the walls of marine
and pintorreadas landscapes fetid atmosphere and mixed parish and
sellers pobretería Rastro, loquacious indolent, some clinging to the
newspapers, and other listening to the reading, all very comfortable
at the bustling wander among spit, smoke and smells bad spirits snuff.

Solos in Benin and the Moroccan table, they chatted of other things:
the blind man told the mischief your roommate and her interview with
D. Carlos, and the ridiculous gift from ledger and the two hard month.

Of wealth, according to public voice, treasured Trujillo (thirty-four
houses, the sea papelorios government money, a ton of thousands of
thousands in the bank), talked extensively, he ran to consider, eg,
the number of poor people who could be happy with all that dosh, that
D. Carlos was coming as wide as deducting a portion for their children,
who should possess natural, so apañarían others so many who walk through
the streets of God barking from hunger.

But as they were not to fix it to your liking, more aware they had
not thought such a thing, and sought each his crust of bread as I
could, until death came and then God give everyone his due.

Finally, with extraordinary seriousness and tone of conviction deep,
Almudena told her friend that all the big bucks D. Carlos could be
it if you wish.

"" Mine? Did you say that everything in D. Carlos can be mine? You're crazy, Almudenilla.

- Tudo yours ... by the holy light. If you do not believe me, you and see Priebe.

- Vuélvemelo to say that all the money in D. Carlos can be mine, when?

-
When you want.

- I believe if you tell me how to be that miracle.

-
My learned how ... Dicir you secret.

- And if you can make the whole
flow of that old fool, a guess, becomes another person, why should
you settle for misery, why do not you take it for you?

".

Almudena replied to this that the person who made the miracle, whose secret he possessed, had
of a view. And the miracle was safe, by the blessed light, and if she hesitated, he had no to prove,
with time everything he said.

Benina was always something superstitious, and I used to believe many
supernatural stories have heard, well, misery aroused in her the respect
of improbable and wonderful things, and although he had not seen any
miracles, he hoped to see the best day.

A little superstition a lot of anxiety phenomena fantastic and never
seen, and just as much curiosity, prompted to ask the Moroccan specific
explanations of their science or magic, as this had to be sure.

Then said the blind man was all about art and know how to ask for
what that we wanted to be called Samdai.

"Who is that gentleman?

- King of baixo terra.

- How? A king who is under the earth?

The devil will be.

- Diablo no: King Bunite.

- Is that thing in your religion?

What religion do you have?

- Be eibrío.

- Oh dear - Benina said, he had not understood the term -.

"And that you call him King, come and go?

- And give you Tuda to
ask him.

- Will you give me all that you ask?

- Sigur.

"

Almudena profound conviction that he showed the unhappy effect on
women, who, after a pause to interrogate the dead eyes of his friend
and his shiny yellow forehead, surrounded by black hair, jumped saying

"And
what is done to call it?

- I say you.

- Did not do anything wrong
with me?

- Naida.

- Do not condemn me, nor do I feel sick, nor do
I catch the devils?

- No.

- Then go saying, but do not cheat, do
not cheat, I say.

- N 'winning is not you ...

- Can we do now?

-
No: hacirlo at twelve o'clock at night.

- Do you have to be at that
time?

- Sigur, sigur ...

- And how do I get out of the house at
midnight?

... Amos, leave it to me nonsense.

Truth could ie, a supposition which has been bad D. Romualdo and
I have to watch over him ... Well, what is to do?

- N 'Things Need
some mochas.

You buy things.

The earthen lamp Primiero. But you buy paliabra you without speaking.

- I go silent.

- Change you ... Buy something ... and if talking
does not assert.

- Válgate God ... Well then: I buy my clay lamp
without a word, then ...».

Almudena ordered after he had to find a clay pot with seven holes,
with seven nothing more, all without speaking, because if he was not
worth.

But where were these pots démontrer with seven holes?

This said the blind man in his own land any, and that this could
be met with roasters who use Brazil nuts, looking for one who has
seven bujeros, no more no less.

"And this must also be purchased without speaking?

- No talking Naida.

"

Then was forced to procure a carrash stick, wood from Africa, here called laurel. A seller
of clubs, be the first shed the Americas did. Had to buy it without a word. Well, because these things
together, it would stick to the fire until to latch on properly ... This was to be Friday at
five o'clock. If not, worth. And the stick would burn until Saturday, and on Saturday at five
o'clock he got into the water seven times, no more no less.

"Is everything creeping?

- Talk Naida, Naida.

"

After the club dressed in women's clothes, like a doll, and he snuggled right dress to the wall,
putting right, masters feet. Was placed before the lamp of clay, on with oil, and covered
her with the pot, so saw no more light than would bujeros the seven, and within walking distance to
put the pot to cast light the incense, and start saying the prayer over and over again with
the thought, because talking is worth. And so was the person, without distraction, without neglecting,
watching smoke rise benzoin and watching the light of the seven holes,
until the twelve ...

"At midnight! - Repeated Benina startled -.

And when twelve o'clock chimes comes ... out, appears to me! ...

- King of terra baixo: asking you what you want, and you give him.

-
Almudena, do you think that?

How is it possible that this man, no more than you cirimonias told me to give me what is now
Don Carlos Trujillo?

- Seeing you, if you wanted.

- But with so requesito, if one is neglected a little, or a mistake
in one word mental prayer ...

- Have you mocha care.

- What about
prayer?

- I teach you; dicir you: Shema Israel Adonai Adonai Elohim
Ishatar ...

- Hush, hush, in life I say that unequivocally.

As net Castilian is not you miss me ... And I assure you that I have
these sorts of jitters from witchcraft ... off, off ... But Ah!

If true, how nice, take her to that of D. zorrocloco Carlos all your
money ... masters half it was, for distribution among many poor ones
who die from hunger ... If could be tested, buying pots and Palitroques
without speaking, then ... But no, no ... any day was coming here
this Wise Man ... Also say that sometimes happen phenomena things,
and go through the air and calling spirits, eg, the souls, looking
at what we do and listening to us as we speak.

And another: what a dream, what is? Well real things of this world, who come to this ... Everything
can be, everything can be ... But me, what can I say, I doubt that much money to give, without
further ado. That to help the poor, a guess, is quite a rich half a million, or half half million,
to pass, but many, tantismas bags for us ... no, that will not wash.

- Tuda, Tuda which have in the bank, mochas million, lottery pa Tuda you, what hiciendo you
say.

- Well if that is so easy, why do not others? Or do you just have the secret? The secret to yourself!
Amos, tell when Nuncio, here we do not buy those potatoes ... I I'm not saying it is not possible
... and if I knew how to do the test, would, a thousand pairs ... Tell me again what the recipe
is to buy one without talking ...»

.
 Quietly the scouts melted away to the tasks they had in
hand. The words of their departing leader had made a great impression on them. Nor had his
reminder of what they should and should not do against the Germans been unnecessary.

"I suppose he must be right," said Henri, a little wistfully. "I shall obey. But I had hoped
that I might have a shot at a few Germans! Frank, I have practiced so often with my rifle!
I have killed hawks and rabbits--"

"Let's find Colonel Menier," said Frank. "We can hurt the Germans far more, I expect, by obeying
orders than by killing a few. It is not the killing of a few men that will settle this war,
Henri! War is bad--war is terrible. Let us not make it worse."

Then they went to the barracks, inquiring, as they had been told to do, for Colonel Menier.
Soon they were brought to him, a busy, tired looking officer of the staff. He eyed them keenly.

CHAPTER VII

THE GLORY OF WAR

One glance at Henri seemed to satisfy him. The French boy, so typical of his race, he was ready
to take for granted. He asked just one question.

"You speak English well? You can understand thoroughly?"

"Yes, my colonel," answered Henri.

Then the officer turned to Frank.

"You are English--one of our allies?" he asked.

"No, sir." And Frank had to explain, for the hundredth time since the war began, as it seemed
to him, his nationality and his mixed blood. He threw up his head a little proudly now as he
told of his French mother.

"That is well enough," said the colonel. "You are neutral--in America. But I think--ah, yes,
I believe that you Americans remember Lafayette and the help you had from Frenchmen once."

"I am ready to do what I can for France, colonel," said Frank, simply. "That is all I can say."

"Or I, or any of us," said Colonel Menier. "Listen well, then. I shall tell you things that
no one else is to know. You, Martin, know the country here? You can find your way about?"

"Yes, my colonel."

"I want you to take certain messages for me to the English headquarters. Where it is to-day,
I know. It is here--see, on the map?"

They looked at the spot he indicated, and concealed their surprise. They had supposed the English
much nearer the border.

"Where it may be to-morrow I cannot tell. But it is of the greatest importance that the papers
I give you be delivered at headquarters. It is so important that we will not trust them to
the telephone, to the telegraph, to the field wireless. They are reports of the most confidential
nature, having to do with movements that will be of great importance a few days from mow. You
will not wear your uniforms of Boy Scouts for the work in hand."

Neither of them said anything.

"That, you will understand, is because the uniforms would make you more than ever conspicuous
to the Germans. I do not think you will be anywhere near the Uhlans. But in war one must not
think; or, if one does, one must think of all things that may happen. So you will wear your
ordinary clothes. You have one day, two days, three, if necessary, to find the British headquarters.
No more. These papers are written on the thinnest of paper. It is so thin that the messages
are contained in these marbles that I give you--one to each of you."

They took the marbles and still they made no comment.

"If you are captured and searched, I believe you will have very little to fear. It is not likely
that a German officer, no matter how zealous he may be, will be over-suspicious of a lot of
marbles in a boy's pocket. You will have a pocket full of them, and they will all look alike.
And if the Germans find you are only boys moved by the curiosity of boys to see battlefields,
they will not hurt you. I do not believe they will even hold you. Probably they will not even
take your marbles away from you, thinking them harmless playthings, never once dreaming of
their secret. Only the officer at our headquarters who knows of your coming will be able to
distinguish one marble from another. How he will do so, it is better that you should not know."

"Someone then will know that we are coming, my colonel?" said Henri, a smile brightening his face.

"Evidently. When you reach the British lines, you will be challenged, probably arrested and
detained. Say to the soldier that he is to give a word to his officer--Mezieres. That will
insure your being taken to headquarters. Everywhere, all through the field, the giving of that
word will mean that he who gives it is to be taken at once to the nearest staff officer."

"Mezieres. We will remember, my colonel," said Henri. "We will change into our ordinary clothes
and start at once. On our return we report to you here?"

Colonel Menier smiled sadly.

"When you return there will be no French troops in Amiens, I fear," he said. "Indeed, I know
it. The time to stop and turn to fight is not yet. We shall not play into the hands of the
Germans by fighting on their chosen ground. We shall wait until we are ready. This is not 1870
when armies were thrown away rather than retreat to ground where the chances of victory were
even, at the worst. Remember that, if you think the retreat is shameful. If, in 1870, the army
of Chalons had retreated upon Paris, instead of marching to the trap at Sedan, French history
might well be different."

"Then Amiens is to be evacuated, my colonel?"

"It is the order. When you have done your errand, return here or do whatever the British staff
may require of you. It will not be for long that Amiens shall be deserted. We shall return.
But whether I shall be here then, I do not know. Farewell! Obey the orders I have given you,
and you will deserve well of France."

They saluted then and went to make their preparations for the start.

"Harry," said Frank, "if the Germans are coming to Amiens, your mother must go. She should
be where she will be safe."

"You are right, Frank. We will try to persuade her to go. But will she leave her task with
the wounded?"

"She can take it up elsewhere."

But though they had expected to have difficulty in persuading her, they found that Madame Martin
was already making plans to go.

"The wounded are to be taken to Tours in great numbers," she told them. "They will need nurses
there, and I shall go. Henri, will you and Francois come with me?"

"We cannot," said Henri. "There is work for us to do. You would want me to do my share?"

"Of course I do!" she said, her eyes filling with tears. "And so speaks every mother in France
to-day! Stay, then, and serve your land in whatever way you can, for France needs even the
boys now. Remember, Henri, that somewhere your mother is serving too, and she expects her son
to do his whole duty. More, she knows he will do it." And her face glowed with pride in her
son as she clasped his hand in her own.

"I will remember," said Henri.

Then they went to their room, laid away their newly acquired uniforms of Boy Scouts, and, keeping
not even their new badges of which they had been so proud, especially Henri, dressed in their
ordinary clothes.

"Let's start on bicycles, anyhow," proposed Frank. "We may not be able to stick to them, but
we can save a lot of time on our way to Le Cateau. That's where we shall go first, isn't it?"

"Yes. We had better start for there. You're right about the bicycles, too. Even if we lose
them, that does not matter so much," said Harry.

"And, Harry, we've got to pretend to be pretty stupid, if we are caught. You mustn't act as
if you knew too much. Don't let the Germans see how you really feel about them. Pretend to
be terribly frightened, even if you're not," instructed Frank.

"All right. I see what you mean. Come on, then. Let's be off!"

Already, as they rode through the streets of Amiens, the signs of what was to come were multiplying. Upon leaving the bathroom it hurt the eyes: on the third day was blind.

As

I still had money, some time could live without imploring the public charity, with sadness inherent
not see, and the equally deep caused by the abrupt transition from working life to sedentary.
The boy was strong and agile for overnight frail and sickly man, Merchant and his ambitions and enthusiasms
of travelers were reduced to a continuous reflect on the uncertainty of earthly goods, and the
infallible justice of God Our Father and Judge feel the hand of the sinner. No one dared to ask
the poor blind man to give her back sight, since it had not granted. It was punishment, and the
Lord will not go back when it hits hard. Time asking his to give him plenty of money to live
comfortably, and muqui love you, but none of this was given to the poor Mordechai, every day
had less money, as these were leaving, but others enter anywhere and of muquieres anything. Those
who approached him pretending you love, would not only his den stealing. One day the man was
very upset about not being able to catch a flea atrociously stung him, taunting him with insolent
audacity, when ... no joke ... it appeared two angels.

XIV

"But you see something, Almudena? - Fourth and asked kilo.

- Watch
me burt them.

"

He explained that distinguished the dark mass in the middle of the light: that it regards the things
of the world from here. But what of the mysterious worlds that extend above and below, front
and rear, outside and inside of us, his eyes were clear, when they saw, the same as you see me.
Well, as two angels appeared to him, as he was not haunt him thing to say nothing, they said they
came from the King of terra baixo an embassy to him. Mr. Samdai had to speak, for which it
was necessary to be my man Slaughter by night, which was burning there ilcienso, and praying in
the middle of the spoils cattle and pools of blood, until twelve o'clock, time constant of
the interview. No should be added that the angels went away with a fresh wind in knowledge
were Mordechai your message, and this took its chess pieces to fumigate the pipe, the ration
of hemp on paper, and went little way of Slaughterhouse: the long encampment before him, he
would smoking less boring.

There he was, squatting, sniffing the fragrant fumes of incense, and smoking pipe after pipe,
until the time came, and primerito he saw was a couple of dogs, larger the cameio, Branco, with
eyes of fire. He, Mordechai, mocha Mede, he removed a Mede breathing. Next came a fix it with
a lot of riders Cantoria, galas mochas, then Rain began to fall very thick sand and stones,
so, so, who was buried up neck ... and not breathing. Median increasingly ... On top of all that happened
slag superfast another squadron of cavalry, giving the whites alquiceles wind, and constantly
shooting shots. There followed a flood of snakes and alcranes, which fell hissing and coiling.
Poor Mede was dying blind, feeling involved in the horrible tag unclean animals ... But Then
came men and women on foot, in slow procession, all with white robes, holding in his hand baskets
and trays of gold, and stepping on flowers as roses and lilies in magically had become snakes
and scorpions, and fragrant mint and branches laurel rained all the
material warm sand and sharp stones.

To avoid fatigue, the King finally appeared, beautiful, human and divine beauty, long beard and black,
earrings, gold crown jewels seemed to be by the sun, moon and stars. Green was his costume,
which was fine as being the work of a highly polished spiders in the deep bosom of the earth
woven with threads of fire. The entourage was Samdai so colorful and bright dazzling. As I asked
Petra if not also His coming Majesty the Queen, he remained standing a moment the narrator,
recalling, and finally realized which also saw Mrs. King, but very stuffy face like the moon
between clouds Mordechai and therefore could not distinguish right. The Sovereign wore yellow,
a color as well as our thoughts when we are between happy and sad. Expressed this the blind
with difficulty supplying the clumsiness of his language with the
physiognomy of the game conviction, and the grimaces and gestures
speak volumes.

Total: than an order of the King you were putting forward all the trays and baskets of gold that
were dressed in white women. What was it? Pieldras of various kinds, mochas, mochas, which
soon formed clumps that would not fit in any home: Rubilar as chickpeas, pearls the size of pigeon
eggs, tudas, tudas large fine diamond in such quantities that they
had to fill bags mochas, and bags a car moving, emeralds such as nuts
and pono trompacios as mine ...

Heard that the three women gawking,
silent, eyes fixed on the face of the blind, half-open mouths.

At the beginning of the relationship, were not willing to believe, and ended up believing by stimulation
of their souls, eager to things pleasant and enjoyable, as compensation for the misery embarrassing
in which they lived. Almudena put all his soul in his voice, and they all spoke the language movable
folds of his face, and even the hairs of his beard black. All were signs, hieroglyphics decipherable,
oriental writing that listeners understood without knowing why. The end of splendid view was that the
king told Mordechai's good that the two things I wanted, wealth and wife could not give more than one;
to opt between the jewels of great value to front watched, and which would enjoy a fortune greater
than that of all the sovereigns of the land, and a good woman, beautiful and industrious, certainly
as rare gem that could not be found but stirring all the earth. Mordechai did not hesitate
a moment in the election, and said to His Baixo terra Majesty, that wanted nothing so much jewels
in bushels, if they did not muqui ... "Want me she ... muqui like me, and without muqui me,
this fine pieldras unwilling or diniero and Naida. "

Then the King Señalole a female wrapped tightly in a blanket that
hid all the face inclusive, was on the road, and told him that was
his, and that continue to catch or rather hunt, then a slight step
was the doomed.

And with that by the King deigned His Majesty disappearing, and with him went all of his entourage,
and fix it and the ladies in white, tudo, tudo, leaving no more than a strong odor of ilcienso,
and the two big dog barking that were lost in the background of the cold night, as if terrified
to flee into the mountains. Mordechai was sick three months after this unique event and would
not eat more than water and barley meal without salt. He remained so thin which had to touch
all the bones without being escaped an account. Finally, crawling as he could, made his way around
the greatness of the world in search of woman who, as divine Samdai said, was his.

"And you found to tantismos years running, and called Nicole - Petra said, wanting to help the
biographer himself.

- What do you know? Not to be Nicole.

- So is the lady - the Diega said, noting not without some impertinence
to poor Benina, not a whimper.

- Me?

... Jesus me excuses! I am no Tarascon who walks along the roads. "

Almudena was from Fez had gone to Algeria, who lived on alms in Tlemcen
first Constantine and Oran then, that at this point he sailed for
Marseilles, and went through all France, Lyon, Dijon, Paris, which
many large with many floors and good olive street all like the back
of the hand.

After climbing up a people who called Lila, turned to Marseilles and Cette, where he sailed for
Valencia.

"And in Valencia found to Nicole, with whom you came to clappers, which gave you the aiuntamientos,
with two cover materials - Petra said - and you you were in Madrid
to Portugal and three years I did the happy, sly, until the slut you
went with another.

- You do not know.

- To tell the story of Nicole
and how he caught him in Madrid to take you to San Bernardino, and
she went to espital, and one night while he slept, he saw two Women
in the other world, eg, souls, to say that Nicole spoke in espital
one that he was to be discharged ...

- Do not be that, not just that:
shut up you.

- One day we will tell - Benina said, that although
he liked to hear those entertained stories, would not stop more, recalling
their pressing chores.

- Wait, madam, what hurry? - Said the Diega -.

Where will you most worth?

- Another day count more - said the blind man smiling -. Mocha me see the world.

- You cansadito, Jai. Convídanos a half to soak you language, you have it drier than shoe leather.

-
I do not invite me to them, b'rrachonas. Not having diniero me.

- Why is not - said Diego, lavish.

- I do not drink - declared Benina -, and I have quickly, and with the permission of the company
I'm leaving.

- Getting you some more. Dar eleven clock.

- Letting - Petra said kindly - in case you need to go to win, that
we we have already won.

"

Questioned by Almudena, reported that having taken the Diega some
money owed two girls in the street from the top deck, were thrown
into the trade, then again and were highly available and mischief
for the buying and selling.

Petra did not feel honest and complete female but when it was dedicated
to traffic, even if in small things, such as chopsticks, mondarajas
of tea, and Torrão.

The other was an eagle and lace handkerchiefs. With that money, come their hands by a miracle,
bought a house gender balance, and on the morning of that day put
their bazaars next to the Arganzuela Fuentecilla, having the kind
of place many races of buttons, sticks, many of lace and two vests
Bayonne.

Another day would remove china, pictures, and horses that gave carton, from gains in factory
Sheep Street. Both spoke at length about your business, and praised each other, Fourth and kilo
because if it was not there for the acquisition of gender by thick, the another one was advancing
in salt and malice for retail sale. Another sign that there was been born to be retailer or
anything, was that the quarter earned in the sale you hit the pocket, awakening in her vague hopes
of saving, while those by other means were at his thin hands, he escaped through his fingers
before could close his fist to keep them.

Benina very attentive heard these explanations, which had the virtue of infusing some sympathy
to the drunk, because she too, Benin, felt businessman, also touched her soul ever dream of
buying and selling. Ah! if, instead of engaging in service, working as a black woman had taken
a front door, another rooster will sing. But old age and the indissoluble moral society Doña
Paca it impossible for the trade.

He stressed the good woman to leave the pleasant chat, and when he rose to say goodbye cayósele
the pen he had given D. Carlos, and when trying to collect soil cayósele
also on the agenda.

"Well, does not lead you there are few things - Petra said, picking up the book and leafing through
it quickly, with grimaces of reading, but spelled more I read -. What is this? A book keep
accounts. How I like it! March, it says here, then Pe ... mushrooms,
then cents.

Is mu bonito point here everything that comes and goes. I write as is, but the numbers I jam,
because I caught on eight fingers, and when most do not remember him ever you get.

- The book - said Benin, which envisioned a business point - a relative gave me my lady to take her
by apuntación spending, but do not know. No longer the Magdalena for these taffeta, and said
the other ... And now I think, ladies, you, trading, they should be this book. Hey, I sell
it, if I pay well.

- How much?

- As for you, two dimes.

- It's a lot - and kilo Fourth said, looking at the pages of the book,
which continued in the hands of co -.

And why do you want us, if we clog the black?

- Toma - Petra said,
children rush to review a laugh, his finger dipped in saliva, leaves
-.

Is marked with broken lines, so many numbers, so many stripes, and
this is more clear ... It gives a real, ea.

- But do not see that
is new?

Its value, here, says: "Two pesetas."

Haggled. Almudena reconciled the interests of both sides, and finally was closed treatment in forty
cents, with pen and everything. Left the cafe the Benina, joyful, thinking who had not lost
time, because if were fantastic in the beautiful pieldras Mordechai
lots put before him, positive and good law was four dogs, as Four
Suns, who had earned selling the useless gift Trujillo monomaniac.

XV

The long break in the cafe allowed to go like a shot the distance between the Trail and Calle de
la Cabeza, where he lived Miss Obdulia, who wanted to visit and help
before leaving home, it was clear that the child belonged half, bitch
more or less, one of the hard of D. Carlos.

A quarter to twelve he entered the portal, that seemed uncanny and
humid outside a prison.

As there was a settlement under donkey's milk, with little donkeys painted in the sample, and
within living without air or light, the nurses of consumptive peaceful, emaciated and cold.
In goal gave asylum to a Benina known, the blind Pulido, who was also a fixed point in San Sebastian.
With him and with Burrero chatted a while before climbing, and they gave him two very bad news:
that would raise the bread and had fallen sharply the stock market, the first signal that it was not
raining, and the latter of which was to drop a fat revolution, all because the artists asked
the eight hours and the masters did not want to give them. Burrero announced soon with prophetic
gravity would remove all the cash money and there would be more than paper, even for the ESP,
and that would throw new contributions, including, for scratching and be a who's who good days.
With these bad impressions Benina up the ladder, as rested as bleak, with the steps in rumen,
the peeling walls, without missing the signs of carbon or pencil scrawled with paneled doors,
through which loomed the lower hinge piece of mat, and dirty street lamps seemed like urns day
Saints. In the first floor, coming down from heaven, with neighborhood cats and a magnificent
view of the shingles and dormers, Miss Obdulia lived, his house, by the width of dilapidated
rooms and cold would like convent, but for the low elevation of the roofs, which almost caught
hand. Mats and carpets were so unknown there, as in the Congo and the Levites top hats; only
in what they called the Cabinet had felt a bit frayed, blue-flowered and red, about two yards
square. The flea market furniture with sheets declared broken disabled legs, limping their
positions, the disaster in its infinite wanderings in moving cars.

It opened the door Obdulia Benina, saying he had felt up, and the point The good woman was assaulted
as a very nice pair of cats that mayando watched, stiff tail, rubbing his back against it.
"The poor animals - said the girl with more feeling about them than herself - not had breakfast
yet. "

He wore the daughter of Doña Paca a pink flannel nightgown, elegant
cut and broken by the heavy use, the front stained chocolate and fat,
some seven in the sleeves, pulled her skirt, revealing at all, as
a token acquired lance, which he owns came a bit wide, by that which
the deceased was older.

However, such clothing got along poorly with poverty Luquitas's wife.

"Did not come last night your husband? - Benina said, breathless from the painful ascent.

- No, daughter, needless to me. Let him in your coffee, and at their homes in ruin, with the members
that have sucked the brains.

- Do not you have brought nothing home for your in-laws?

- Now do not touch. You know that left him in a day every other.

There has been more than Juana Rosa a comb, and she was my Andrea. They will eat together at home
with his aunt.

- So you're like chameleons. Do not worry, that God squeezes but does not drown, and here I'm not
fast for more than note that heaven or what you have already won
... Feel and hacking ... Has been the gentleman?

- Yes, there are
from ten.

With the nice things that has amused me, and I hardly there is no agreement on home more than
two ounces of chocolate, half a dozen dates, and some crusts of bread ... If you bring me something,
be the first for these poor cats bored that since the dawn will not
let me live.

Looks like I speak, and say, "But what is our Good girl, that does not come with our cordillita?.
"

- Then bring to remediaros all - said the old woman -. But I want to greet that gentleman stale,
which is so fine and friendly with the ladies. "

He entered the cabinet called, and M. de Ponte and Delgado broke up
with her loving compliments of the good society.

"Whenever you throwing it less, Benina ... and very distressed when you shine by their absence.

-
That shine for my absence! ... But what nonsense are you saying, Mr. de Ponte? O do not understand
is that we women of a village, such terms as Fisnar ... Hey, stay
with God.

I'll be back soon, I have to give lunch to the girl and Mr cats. And although Mr. D. Frasquito
forbid, has to do penance here. I invited him ... no, you Miss invites.

- Oh, how much honor! ... I am not ungrateful. I thought I retire.

- Yes, we know that you are always invited houses of greatness.

But as is so well, you dizna sit at the table of the poor.

- Taking into account that both thank you - said Obdulia -. I know that Mr. de Ponte is a sacrifice
to accept these poverty ...

- By God, Obdulia! ...

- But his great kindness inspires these and other great sacrifices.

Right, Ponte?

- I have already fought for you, my friend, for being so paradoxical.

Llama sacrifice the greatest pleasure that can exist in life.

- Do you have coal ?...-- Benina asked abruptly, as one who throws a stone into a solid flowers.

-
I think there is something - said Obdulia - and if not, bring it too. "

Nina was inward, and having found fuel, though small, began to turn fire and prepare their pots. During
the prosaic operation, talked with chips and coals, and using the bellows as a conduit phonetic
he said: "I'm having again like to feed the hungry poor, who confesses his hunger for shame
that gives ... How much misery in this world, Lord! Well say who else has seen, else sees. And when you
create one that is the last straw poverty, is that there are others more miserable, because
one takes to the street and ask, and give, and eat, and half a bagel is fed ... But those who
join the shame with the desire to eat, and are sensitive and thrive for request, the ones that
were possible and education, and will not stoop ... God, how unfortunate are! it will flow to
kill the bug ... If I have money left after giving him lunch, I see how I compose to take the
penny you need to pay cot tonight. But alas! no ... you'll need eight reales. Heart tells
me that last night did not pay ... and how that trust does not Bernard ordered more than once
... will need to pay any account ... already know if you have two
or three nights on credit ... No, but I had the money, I would not
give it, and although it offered, first slept in the open to catch
it these poor hands ... Lord, what, what things are seeing every day
in this world so big misery!

".

While the languid and scrawny Frasquito Obdulia talked joyful pleasant things, distant tired
of the sad reality. Since I saw her come to Providence, in figure Benin, the girl felt herself
calm your anxiety and shock, and the gentleman also breathed by the very happy occasion, and
was glad to see the birds conjured them by the day, a serious conflict of subsistence. Each
other, well-worn faded lady and leading man, had, in through its radical shortage, an inexhaustible
wealth, efficacious, almost mint, extracted from the mine of his own spirit, and though they used
the products of this venerable lavishly, the more you spend, more glut had their flows. It
was, therefore, this wealth on the faculty lovely detached from reality, when they wanted,
moving to a imaginary world, all bienandanzas, and such pleasures. With this divine faculty,
if it was not even warned, in many cases, enormous sufferings, because when they were deprived
of property absolutely positive, taken out of the imagination Amalthea's horn, and waved to
see out of it the ideal property. The strange thing was that Mr. de Ponte Delgado, having at
least three times the age of Obdulia, nearly exceeded in imaginative power, as in the decline
of life, was renovated in the flapping childhood.

D. Vial was what is commonly called a soul from God. His age was not known, or in part have consisted,
for he had burned the church record of Algeciras where he was baptized. He had the physique
of a rare privilege that could compete with conservation of the mummies Egypt, which did not
alter setbacks and hardships. His black hair is kept and abundant beard, no, but with a little
polish almost harmonized with each other. Spent hair, not the romantic, disheveled and sullen,
but those used to the 50, shiny, with a side parting, well ahuecaditos tufts over the ears.
Movement hand to cup the two strands and modeling in place, was one of those bad habits physiological,
second nature, they become part of the first. Well with Melenita of kink and beard greasy and
retinta's face was Frasquito Ponte they call childish, not to know what expression of naivete
and trust that you would see in nose girl, and her eyes were lively and were already dying. Always
looked tenderly, throwing the rays of sunset amid gloomy clouds of the horizon of bleary tear, tab
sparse, eyelid rough, large crow's feet. Two assumptions stood out among many that were the
pride of Ponte Delgado, namely the hair and small feet. We had better
wait here until we make fairly sure of what they're going to do and until there isn't any more
danger of our being seen, too. They'll have scouts out all around them. We were mighty lucky
to get through so long as we have. But it's going to get dark pretty soon, and then we ought
to be safe."

They lay in their improvised shelter. It took the Germans a long time to pass, but at last
the road below was free of them, and the last of them slipped into the sheltering obscurity
of the woods.

"We ought to find out if they're staying there, or if they are still moving on," said Frank.
"It's risky, but I think we ought to take the risk. You stay here, Henri. I'll try to get around,
and come back."

"Why should I stay here? If there's a risk, why shouldn't I take it just as well as you?"

"Because one of us has got to get through. If I'm caught, you'll still be here and able to
get through to headquarters with what we've found out already. And the reason I'd better go
is that I'm an American. If they catch me they're not so likely to hold me."

"But I don't think it's fair for you to take the risk. I ought to do it," said Henri, stubbornly.

"I don't care what you think," said Frank, "I'm going. Au revoir, Harry!"

"Wait a minute! How are you going to find out?"

"I'll try to skirt the wood."

"You needn't do that. Keep straight on the road we were taking, instead of turning off at the
foot of the hill. About half a mile beyond the crossroads the road rises again, and you'll
find a windmill. If you climb to the top of that you can see beyond the woods, and you ought
to be able to tell if the Germans are moving out of the woods."

"Splendid!" said Frank. He admired Henri's readiness, once he had made up his mind that Frank
was going alone, to help him with his greater knowledge of the countryside. Some boys would
have been sullen, and would not have volunteered that information, he was sure.

Before Frank started on his lonely errand, he carried Henri's bicycle back of the hedge. Then
he mounted his own, and coasted down the hill. His object was to seem entirely indifferent,
should some German scout or straggler spy him, but plainly the Germans had decided to leave
the road uncovered.

"I guess they decided it was better to risk being surprised than to give themselves away,"
he said to himself. "Otherwise they'd have been pretty sure to leave an outpost of some sort
here because this road looks like just the place for troop movements. It looks more and more
as if they had really managed to make a secret of this column."

It did not take him long to find the windmill of which Henri had told him. The place was deserted;
there was no one to oppose his entry. And, when he reached the top, he found that there was
an excellent view of the country for several miles, a much better one than they had had from
their shelter on the hillside above the Germans.

He could see the woods into which the invading troops had disappeared, looking dark and mysterious
in the deepening twilight. There was no sign of life about them; no smoke rose above the treetops.
And no Germans were beyond them. Then his guess had been right, he decided. They had made for
those woods to obtain shelter, and they relied upon the fact that the allies did not know of
their presence. It was a daring move; it might well have been successful, save for the accident
of the two boys who had observed it. Indeed, even now there was a chance, and something more
than a chance, that the German object, whatever it was, might be attained. Frank and Henri
were a long way yet from having reached the British headquarters. Unknown dangers and obstacles
lay between them and their destination.

"With the German attack developing so quickly as this, we don't know where we may not run into
them," mused Frank, as he descended from the windmill and mounted his wheel, preparing to start
back to join Henri. "They may be anywhere. I don't want to see them win, but they certainly
are wonderfully good fighters. They have good leaders, too."

When he reached Henri he found that his French comrade was lighting the lamp of his bicycle.
With a laugh he blew out the flame.

"But it's dark and we'll be arrested if we ride without a light," said Henri, protestingly.

"That law was made for peace, not for war," said Frank. "When we know as little about where
the Germans are as we do, I'm not going to take any chances. We'll ride with lights out, thank
you. Come on!"

As they rode along in the growing dusk, close together, Frank told what he had seen.

"That was a good guess, then," said Henri. "But, Frank, how can they know so well what to do?
You would think that they had been brought up in this country, those German officers!"

"They might as well have been," said Frank. "I've heard stories of how they prepare for war.
They have maps that show every inch of land in this part of France. They know the roads, the
hills, even the fields and the houses. They have officers with every regiment who know where
ditches are that they can use as trenches, and who have studied the land so that they recognize
places they have never seen, just from the maps that they have studied until they know them
by heart. And it isn't only France that they know that way, but England, and some parts of
Russia, too. Why, I've even heard that they've studied parts of America, around New York and
Boston, almost as thoroughly."

Henri cried out in anger.

"That is how they have behaved!" he cried. "They have been planning, all these years, then,
to crush France!"

"Oh, cheer up, Harry," said Frank. "I guess you'll find that your French staff officers have
returned the compliment. Unless I'm very much mistaken, any one of them could tell you just
as much about the country in Alsace and Lorraine, and all through the Rhine Province, as the
Germans could of this section. It wasn't so in the last war. Then French officers were losing
their way in French territory. That was one reason why the battle at the Speichern was lost--because
French reinforcements lost their way. But this time France got ready, too."

"Shall we still make for Le Cateau?"

"There's nothing else to do, until we find out that the staff has changed its location."

Riding along in a light that made men out of the shadows of trees and regiments of the shocked
corn in the fields was eerie work. But neither of them was afraid. They were fired by a purpose
to serve the cause in which they had enlisted. And they were thrilled, too, by the knowledge
of the German force upon which they had spied, themselves unseen.

And then all at once, out of a dark spot in the road, appeared a man, holding a horse.

"Halt!" he cried, in a guttural voice.

They obeyed, perforce. And when they were close enough, they saw that he was a German cavalryman,
one of the dreaded Uhlans.

CHAPTER X

THROUGH THE LINES

For a moment Frank's heart sank, but suddenly, a hoarse laugh surprised him and revived his
spirits. It was the Uhlan. He was laughing at them.

"Kinder!" he said, deep down in his throat.

"Nothing so alarming in this," thought Frank, experiencing quick relief, and awaiting the Uhlan's
next words.

"I have my way lost," he said, in a guttural English. "Kannst du Englisch sprechen?"

"I am an American," said Frank, at the same time nudging Henri, and hoping that he would understand
it as a signal to keep still. "Where do you want to go?"

"That matters not," said the German, cautiously. 

Can say without fear of contradiction that the elegance and beauty of Havana had met that night
at the Philharmonic Society. Because there was the Marchioness of Arcos, daughter of the famous
Marquis de Pedro Calvo, Luisa, his eldest daughter, then fifteen years old. For this was improvised
Plácido those lines:

      
    He went fluttering The exquisite
    atmosphere Parched mosquitoes,
    Juice of flowers looking;
    Came to your mouth, and thinking
    That was a rose or carnation,
    Introduced in it, Because
    there loves pleasure Sweet died
    in your throat, Like a glass
    of honey.

Chacón sisters there, they deserved for their beauty appear on the large canvas painting by Vermay
[31] to perpetuate the memory of the mass celebrated at the opening of the Temple Plaza de
Armas. There the Montalvo, Teutonic type, one of which was declared beauty queen, when the rod
run last year, in the old Plaza de Toros Champ de Mars, where the Arango, famous for contributing
to the avoidance of the poet Heredia and then married a Captain Field Assistant General Ricafort;
there sisters Aceval, Venus de Milo in the forms, so distinguished for his talent as for his
unhappy passions Alcázar sisters there, models of perfection, and by the symmetry of their tiny
factions, as the roses in her cheeks and the black of her hair there the Junco and Lamar, of Matanzas,
known under the vocative poetry of the Nymphs of Yumurí; there Gamboa's three sisters, which
we have already had occasion to describe him up there Topete daughter of General Commander of
the Naval Station in Havana, which later inspired his Palma immortal "Fifteen of August," there's
less of Gamez, Venus Belvedere, whose brown hair, copious wavy, wore loose star-studded gold, there,
in order, inter many too numerous to list, Ilincheta Isabel, daughter of former adviser of
Captain Someruelos General, who had the main features of severe type, modest Celtiberian, it owed
its origin.

As models of manly beauty, among the young attendees of the dance company that night, could be mentioned
Sunspear Lieutenant Colonel Rey, Rafael de la Torre, who died a few days later crashed into
the wheels of the chitin in the Walk, along the statue of Carlos III, a victim of the fire of
his horse and O'Gavan Bernardo Echeverría, in the days of gala liked to wear the uniform of Chamber
gentleman with input insofar as it might look well-made and plump legs, Ramón Montalvo in
his prime age, beautiful as the pure English blood, Joseph Gaston, the true Apollo of Cuba;
Dionisio Mantilla, newly arrived from France, which had made a compliment Paris; Diego Duarte,
the happy winner of the runs of reeds held the previous year, due to the marriage of Ferdinand
Maria Cristina of Naples, several naval officers and Spanish army in their colorful uniforms,
more appropriate to a stop a particular dance.

Also contributing to the luster of the festival the presence of some young people who began to distinguish
in the cultivation of letters, namely: Palma, who had been one of the competitors in the race of
reeds used in the Finance Echeverría, who the following year achieved the award in poetry
contest launched by the Literature Committee, to celebrate the birth of the Infanta of Castile,
Isabella of Bourbon Valdés Machuca, known as helpless in the republic letters; Policarpo Valdes,
who was signed Polidoro, Anacleto Bermudez, who used to publish verses under the name of delight,
Manuel Garay y Heredia, which printed his poems in The Aurora Matanzas, Velez Herrera, the Cuban
romance author Elvira de Oquendo, Delio, the singer the ruins of the Alhambra, Domingo André,
a young lawyer, eloquent and polite, Domingo del Monte, Cuba introduced the romance of wide-ranging
expertise and very distinguished bearing.

Diego Meneses, Francisco Solfa, Leonardo Gamboa and several others who were also in dance,
with the exception of the second was given to philosophical studies, and the third and entering
into the wealthy class, were not made notable by his talent, although the three used writing
in the literary journals, and the last went further by good-looking boy and masculine forms.
The literati, or rather, fans of the lyrics, especially who cultivated poetry, began to have
entry to people who could be taken by noble in Cuba, or aspiring, for his wealth, nobility and
alternated with her. Showed at least distinction by including some titled families of Havana
and appealed to their parties and meetings, including, for example, the counts of Fernandina,
the Bayonne house, the house Peñalver, the Marquis of Montehermoso and Arc. These parties and
meetings in the days Christmas Easter moved the prettiest coffee in San Antonio, Alquízar, San
Andrés and Artemis, who belonged to the wealthy.

Were not in the halls of our friends Gamble Company, Meneses and Solfa but until about eleven
o'clock at night. During the early hours had been visiting Fair balls Angel, Farruco and de
Brito, not to mention the birthplace of people of color, Stonehouse Street, between Compostela
and Avocado. In none of these sites They had taken an active part, excepting the first, who
lost the game Mount in an instant the two ounces of gold that same evening he had put his
mother in the vest pocket. He knew the value of money or playing for the love of gain, but for
the sake of the excitement of the moment, but it happened that the dances did not pay attractive
none, defected to the pretty girls, who failed to see Cecilia Valdés in the window home, or in
the crib, all of which conspired to put it a very bad mood. To Unfortunate auction when losing
and became upset with his friends in search of chitin, I had left on the street bet Avocado away
from the high walls of the convent Santa Catalina, he discovered that was not there, nor was it
possible to find half an hour later and point opposite and distant.

Moreover, the coachman asked about the reason that led him to disobey an order strict his young
master, gave evasive answers to the top, and finally, tight, said a stranger, half covered
his face with a handkerchief, he had been forced to leave position and pretend to be returned
home, using dire threats. It did not seem credible the story: There was, however, that accept
as good and true, what, if anything, increased bad Leonardo humor, because if true the relationship
of the coachman, who could be this guy, or what have interest in the carriage wait in one
or another corner of the street? Why use threats? What had authority to do so? Aponte could not
say whether the unknown was military or civilian, district commissioner or magistrate, a white man
or colored. Maybe was an unexpected and unknown rival in that way was preparing to dispute
the love Cecilia Valdés.

Corroborated unpleasant suspicion that neither she nor her friend had Nemesia presented in any
part of the show Angel. Besides that, the fact of not having open the window, even when Gamboa
was the agreed signal from the tip of the cane for few balusters that still had almost left no
doubt that something extraordinary had occurred in humble, dark home.

But this is what it may, there is no time to check now, Leonardo Gamboa entered the dance of the
Philharmonic worried and very bad mood. Navy, however, the dance, in the main hall of the palace
and the room quite spacious by the way, says the poet

      One night last, between crystals Light
    shimmered in the classroom; And the
    blood inflamed his sones, Tropical dance;

our
    hero could not avoid its overpowering influence.

The orchestra, directed by the famous Ulpiano violinist, held the very wide corridor on the left
hand as she climbs the the royal dark stone staircase. Then, right, was the door of the room,
opposite another that was about the most spacious balconies, which were called the gates of the
Rosary. Left hats and canes in the hands of a black servant at the door of a room mezzanine open
the rest of the double-leg ladder, and tending the hearing by the magnificent hall, which
could have "a horse race," if we are allowed to exaggerate, students discovered that they filled
animated couples end to end. Received back men and women face as they waited their turn to sieve
the fresh air of midnight, coming through the doors and windows wide open.

As we said before, there were assembled the cream and flower of Cuban
Youth of both sexes, delivered, for the moment at least, with soul
and body to your favorite.

And in the glare of the chandeliers, in waves of music as plaintive as voluptuous, because it
comes from the heart of an enslaved people, the subtle through the cloud of dust raised by the
dancers with their feet, women seemed more beautiful, the gallant men. Could he therefore
be given the encouragement of youth to other thoughts he suggested that the flattering objects
before him? It is not possible.

Gamboa took, of course, in seeking partner to take part in the dance,
but not liked, but Meneses, who rarely danced, and Solfa, who never
danced, they were viewers in the middle of the room, watching the
last, with a bitter smile, that while that crazy youth at home enjoyed
the pleasures of the moment, the most stupid and brutal of the kings
of Spain seemed to contemplate with an air of utter contempt from
gold canopy where they saw his picture painted hateful.

Walking with some difficulty between the crowded rows of spectators and dancers, stumbled Gamboa
with the youngest of the girls Gamez, whose portrait we made up pen flies in as committed to dance.
In all regards, while pivoting as a sylph in arms your partner, "she said before the eyes
than the tongue: - Here is Isabel.

- Dancing? asked the young man.

- What dance! Waiting for you

- Why me? What break yours.

As a tris not come to the dance tonight.

In fact, that young lady was at that time in any appearance eating turkey, as reads vulgar
phrase in Cuba, ie, sitting to the left, near the door of the room between a middle-aged woman
and the cult lawyer Domingo André, who held animated conversation. Despite his carefree nature,
Gamboa felt a surge of jealousy it was impossible to suppress, not because they were really in
love, but because the gentleman in whose company he found, was handsome and knew Asaz insinuate
themselves into the minds of women discrete. In passing, we should say, however, that the northern
compliments by André that time, they went to another beauty very different from Isabel Ilincheta,
it lost by shy and daring won for the writer Dominican Domingo del Monte, if we're not wrong
on the night that we are talking about. As far as Elizabeth, Leonardo received with an adorable
smile, which, far from reassuring, was party to cause further distress. Changed the usual greetings,
as the companion of Elizabeth, mother of Gamez, was a friend the young student, like Andre, in
proof that there was nothing coquettish, not of vindictive, very cheerful said:

- Said that this gentleman does little, he had committed this dance, and I want to believe.

- Is that you have not danced any yet that I know, "said André.

- True, only two have danced, "said Isabel without cutting, but until now danced the third,
did not come to invite you.

- What it means in essence, continued
André, I've arrived in an unlucky hour.

How has to be!

- This lady is right, Leonardo brought parts of their pregnancy.

For previous commitment, in any dance where we are, I reserved it the third dance. I can not make,
Therefore, a better time as I see it.

So they say you better be on time to be around a year.

- I cried the gallant lawyer, the fact is that few of us good girls that we time.

André was greeted and joined the choir at Aldama potentate two daughters, of whom the youngest,
named Lola, was down to very few that night coveted palm of beauty. Meanwhile Leonardo and
Isabella, holding his hand, reached into the ranks of dance, not far from the head, through mutual
friends for that, but arrived late, left them no join the queue, as was de rigueur. The Cuban
dance without a doubt that was invented to be court lovers. The dance itself is very simple, comfortable
and easy movements, being its primary purpose the approximation of the sexes, in a country
where the Moorish customs tend to their separation, in short, the communion of souls. Because
the gentleman has the lady almost always on edge, so that while with his right arm around
her waist, with the left hand pressed hers softly. Is not that dance, as the body is merely the bars,
is rocking like a dream, to the sound of music gemidora and voluptuous, it is two people talking
intimately dear is stroking two beings attract each other, and that time, space, status, custom
has kept away.

The style is the man, someone said promptly, the dance is a people, we say, and there is none
like dance more alive to paint the character, habits, social status political and Cubans, or
you're more in harmony with the climate of the island

The night in question Ilincheta Isabel looked wonderfully natural graces that had endowed the sky.
She was tall, shapely, slender and elegantly dressed, So be very discreet and friendly, is said
to draw the attention of the educated. To smooth pallor of her face, languid expression of
his clear eyes and thin lips, contributed to make it attractive to a young man who, on the other
hand, there was nothing beautiful. His charm was in his word and his ways. Entered puberty when
she lost her mother, and to educate, as well as to free it of the dangers of the world, her
father placed in the care of Ursuline Sisters, coming from New Orleans and settled in their convent
door Earth since early this century. After a boarding more than four years, he received religious
education before scholarly, comprehensive, retired to the country, in the coffee plantation his
father, near the town of Alquízar, along with her younger sister and an aunt Rosa, widow a naval
surgeon, named Bohorques. This individual had made several trips to the coast of Africa in
shipments released on behalf of the Society of Gamboa and White. These result contracted a
terrible disease, died on the journey and thrown into the water, which many of the unhappy savages
who had helped to plagiarizing from his native soil.

On more than one occasion was the widow, on this subject, the object of the bounty of Don Candido
Gamboa. Leonardo visited her in the coffee plantation Alquízar, and could not help falling in
love and niece, whose modesty and thanks enhanced her clear intelligence and fine discretion.

There
was nothing feminine roundness, and, of course, or pleasure, we have already mentioned, in
the forms of Isabel. And the reason was obvious: the pursuit on horseback, his favorite pastime
in the field, often swimming in the river of San Andres and San Juan de Contreras where all the
years spent bathing season, walks almost daily in the coffee his father and the neighbors,
their frequent exposure to the weather for fun and because of his active life, had strengthened
and developed his physique to the point to make him lose the soft, rounded forms of the young
men of his age and status. For lacked nothing manly and determined air of his person, should be added
that shaded his mouth expressive a dark mustache and silky, which
was only one common tonsure to become in black mustache and village.

Following this bozo sometimes sticking white teeth, young and even, and behold what was the
magic of the smile of Elizabeth.

No wonder that, being somewhat skeptical and Leonardo off, felt a passion for a young woman such
as the one just described. He came by the golden gates of life. Despite its connotations and
its wealth, had not yet had intercourse with women their area and education, and had begun to
look at them nor their future companion life. His roughness was only external, was in his brusque
manner, because there in the bottom of his chest, as you have occasion to observe, there were endless
stream of generosity tenderness of feeling. God, that, had not denied the ability to love,
only the women they had met up there, or had yielded to the impetuosity of his affections, at the
fearlessness of his few years, or the influence of his golden shower. None of these mobile could
have influence on the mind of a young rich, well educated, modest and virtuous as Isabel Ilincheta.
Leonardo attracted first by their physical clothes, seduced then by his outstanding moral qualities,
of course understood that to win her affection was playing strength your heart, speak to your
understanding.

Moreover, the woman who appeared to Leonardo's eyes in a new light, inhabited the transcript of
the earthly paradise where saw for the first time.

If we can dispense with the slave and of his sufferings, which are, however, more bearable in
coffee, it will agree that Elizabeth, her sister Rosa, his aunt Juana, his father and raised,
lived a life of peace and quiet away from the bustle of the city, surrounded by fragrant flowers,
the trees and evergreen orange, the graceful palms, the classic plantain, perennial astounded
with the singing of the birds and the rustle of the breeze melancholy
in the fields of Cuba.

Until the season of holiday bonuses and blossoms, in which Leonardo
Isabel met, contributed to surround her charm to your eyes and wake
up something in his chest that he had never felt at 21 years of his
life: love.

     
     

        CHAPTER IV

Princess .-- His name at least King .-- Never, never, never.

Dreams of love and ambition.

Pump Alley, such as San Juan de Dios, which seems to be its continuation,
is composed two blocks.

Is, if anything, more narrow, deep and moist, even when their houses are generally broader.
In one of these, immediately Avocado Street, lived with Pepper Nemesia his brother, Jose Dolores,
occupying two quarters in a row, unfurnished which was reduced to a pair of chairs, a swing,
a pine table and a cot of wind, which opened and closed at night day, to clear the field.

Dark and, Nemesia left the tailor shop and headed Uribe often step towards Angel neighborhood.
He preferred to do Avocado Street, which although more lonely and dark by the absence of public
facilities, driving right at two points where the step want to stop. When he reached the four corners
formed by the street and O'Reilly cross she wore, was arrested a short while, pensive and hesitant.
First looked back, then on your right, then forward again, staring at the window of the shack immediately
to the pub on the left, but to be in line parallel to the observer,
only distinguished balusters moldings protruding slightly from the
plane of the wall.

Difficult was therefore to know whether or not a person looking out there or the door. Consequently,
the mulatto moved to the bottom corner and gave a peculiar high-pitched whistle, passing wind
to force the teeth of the middle of the upper jaw.

A few seconds later he saw looming on the balustrade of the window curtain a song white, but when going
to claim, noted that the convent down the embankment a gentleman in stride, heading right to
the target point of your looks. Dwelt to observe what was happening. Who was that guy? Who's
waiting in the house? Dressed in tails dark, light trousers and narrow-brimmed hat and drink
disproportionately wide, protruding behind the white collar of his
shirt straight.

He was not young, nor old, but middle- age. Despite the darkness, all that I could see Nemesia
to the short distance to found, which did not exceed thirty feet. His stance, his rhythmic movements
and firm could not be mistaken for a youngster or old.

He went, however, with apparent caution to the point where you could see the edge of the curtain
white, held a brief conversation with the person who was hidden behind the folds, and then continued
to stride away from the high walls of the convent, around the Punta.

Nemesia he soon lost sight of in the dark, but he had no doubt that a carriage awaited him in the
middle of the block, because he heard distinctly the noise of wheels on the stones of the street,
running in the opposite direction to that in which it was, and favorable that was the unknown.

Goad
by curiosity, the girl returned to whistle as he had done before, they answered from the window
by moving the white curtain, and came to the point, but instead of
his beloved Cecilia friend, just found the grandmother.

Which of the two women had received and discussed the dark knight
coat and hat bulky?

New subject of curiosity and confusion.

- Ah! Was it you, Chepilla? Nemesia said.

- Come in, it said, turning to the door and remove the toe with the average bullet insurance.

No
request was made for the girl.

He seemed serious and upsetting the grandmother and granddaughter sitting in a corner, with the dress
loose, disheveled, her head bent over his chest, arms outstretched
and fingers crossed in her lap, was very picture of gloom and despair.

-
Come, my child.

You're welcome Chepilla repeated. Come in and sit down, do me the favor of sitting, added noting
that the girl was still standing, as bewildered and confused.

-
It's late and I'm in a hurry, "replied mechanically dropping it in
the leather chair front of the niche in which they worshiped the image
of the Dolorosa.

Chepilla would repeat the request, but saw that the newcomer would sit without further delay she
stood between her and her granddaughter.

- Said he added Nemesia a little while, it's late and went quickly. I went to take the seams
Sr. Uribe's studio, and I was done at night. It turns out that his wife is Clarita very conservative,
and then wanted to help her close the skirt of a garment that is doing little girl for Christmas
Eve. [32] José Dolores must be waiting for me. The workshop came long before me, because I had
to play in the salve of the Holy Guardian Angel. Indeed There have
been many people in the shaft this afternoon in the tailoring, all
to find clothes for a dance at the Philharmonic, and for the Christmas.
A Sr. Uribe must make the request to time.
They'll obey orders that officers wouldn't take the trouble to give in any other army. We'll
have to make sure. Up we go again!"

Frank could not see how going up would make it possible for them to get the information that
coming down hadn't afforded. But he said nothing, because he had come to feel by this time
that when Captain Greene did a thing he had a perfectly sound reason for his action. Nor was
he wrong. Once more they climbed in a high spiral curve until they were higher than they had
been before. For the first time, Frank now felt a peculiar ringing in his ears. He mentioned
it, and Greene laughed.

"Pressure," he said. "You'll get used to it! Lord, sometimes I've felt as if my head would
burst when I started to climb. But it doesn't last long. Feel in the seat there beside you,
at your left. There ought to be a big electric torch."

"Here it is! I've got it, sir," said Frank, a moment later.

"All right. Touch the button at the end. Let's see if it lights up properly."

It did, decidedly, for the result was a blinding glare.

"Pretty powerful, isn't it?" said Greene. "It's used for signalling, you see. Flash the light,
and you can reproduce Morse perfectly. When you're high up it can be seen a long way, too.
Now hold it straight down and flash it, then give a steady glare. Let us see if we cannot draw
anything."

Frank obeyed, at the same time getting a glimpse of Greene's idea. He held the torch pointing
straight down, and saw the beam of light shooting straight down. It was not powerful enough,
of course, by the time it reached the treetops, to illuminate them, and so make anything below
visible, but it was certainly strong enough to be observed from below, he thought. But still
there was no movement, and the uncanny silence and darkness below persisted.

"All right. There's still another chance," said Greene, patiently. He drew a revolver from
his pocket.

"Flash your little light this way. Let me see if it's all right," he said.

Frank obeyed.

"New fangled automatic--very powerful, and shoots a .44 bullet almost as far as an old-fashioned
rifle," explained Greene. "Very useful if one runs into another 'plane unexpectedly--and the
other fellow happens to be a German."

A moment later he opened fire, shooting straight downward. He could not aim, of course, but
it was not his object to hit anything. He emptied one clip of cartridges, and before the last
shot was fired the woods below began to spit fire. From afar it looked Benina motionless
drooping head. After a while, he fell on the floor, and there I saw all afternoon bystanders
sitting mute, black outstretched hand.

Nina did not find the big news at home, as such, does not have the happy Doña Paca, who never ceased
to praise the fineness of his guest, and the grace with which the conversation brought memories
of Algeciras and Ronda. He felt the good woman transported to its green years, almost forget
their poverty, and moved the generous instinct in that first age had been improvident foundation
of his character and his misfortunes, which proposed to Nina for
Frasquito bring two bottles of sherry, turkey in aspic, egg yolk,
and boar's head.

"Yes, ma'am -" said the maid -: all this will bring, and then we go to jail, to save shopkeepers
to take the job. But have you gone mad?

For tonight I will a garlic soup with eggs, and St. Sacabo.

Believe me, you know that gentleman to glory comistrajos used as
is indecent.

- Well, woman.

Do whatever you want.

- Instead of boar's head, will head of garlic.

- I think, with your permission, that in all circumstances, even sacrificing,
should a act like he is.

In short, how much money we have?

- That you do not mind.

Leave it all to me, and I know dress.

When finished, you are not who has to go get it.

- Yeah, I know you and go look for it.

I'm no good.

- If you serve, and now, help me peel these potatoes.

- Whatever
you want.

Ah ... I forgot. Bottle drink tea ... and as is so delicadillo, must bring good.

- The best.

I'll get him to China.

- Do not laugh. Go to the store and ask the called Mandarin. And while you bring a quesito good
for dessert ...

- Yes, yes ... take you and does not spill.

- You see that you are accustomed to eating in big houses.

- Just: as Boto's Tavern, across the street from Ave Maria ... ration of stew, a real; with
bread and wine, thirty-five cents.

- You are today ... I can not endure. But every avenge me, Nina. You command.

- Oh, if I did not send, would run pretty! Already we have taken to San Bernardino or very Pardo.
"

Joking and it was evening, and dine frugally, happy three and resigned
to poverty, bad tolerable and bearable when not needed a piece of
bread and to kill hunger.

And the historian should be noted also that the good climate in Doña Paca was a little twisted
collected both in the bedroom, the lady in your bed, Benin on the floor, having given Frasquito
his bed. Zapata's widow was so mercurial genius, in an instant, without to know the reason, the
goodness went from calm to insane rage, of childish credulity a crafty distrust of reasonable
words the most absurd nonsense. Knew very well bred this easy turning of the mind and the will
of his wife, whom compared with a weathervane, and without taking to heart their displeasure
and a fit of rage, he hoped that the wind changed. Indeed, this varied from suddenly veering
to the quadrant good, and if in a moment had become purple thistle, later returns to his first condition.

The
Dona Paca cranky at night I mean it must be attributed, according to reliable, to Frasquito, in
his talks in the afternoon, and the times for dinner and desktop
This showed a preference for Benina that deeply hurt the pride of
the widow unhappy.

A good Mr. Benina expressed his gratitude almost exclusively, reserving for lady a polite deference,
for Benina were all smiles, his most ingenious the tenderness of his languid eyes, and medium
ram die and many indiscretions Ponte joined to call the angel as a hundred times in the course
of the frugal meal.

And with that, listen to Doña Paca, tucked between the sheets, while the other was sleeping in floor:
"Well, daughter, no one out of my head that you have given a potion to this poor guy. Go how you
want!

If you were not an old ugly and without any grace, believe that you had ding made ... True that
you are good, charitable, you know to gain sympathy by how well attend
to everything, and for your sweetness and that modito soft ... that
it could mislead those who do not you know ... But with all those
clothes, impossible for a man so corrido garment you ... If you believe
and why you are inflated with pride, my view is that you do not compose,
Poor Nina.

You'll always be what you were ... and I fear not that quite a D.
Bottle illusion, telling your bad habits, what you were ssion, and
other stuff, other stuff that you know, and I ...».

Benina silent, covering her mouth with a sheet, and this humility and moderation lit more the rencorcillo
Zapata's widow, who continued molesting her companion: "No one recognizes like me your good qualities,
because you have, but we must always put away do not let you out of your low status, so you
do not lawless, so you will not upload to the higher beard. Remember the two times I had to
kick you out of my house ... ssion To that end comes your impudence, what do I say chutzpah?
your cynicism at the ugly vice, which ... go, I've never made an account, I like seeing my money
going out of my pocket to yours ... continuous jet! ... But what? Do not say anything? ...
Have you no answer? Have you gone mute?

- Yes, ma'am, I have become mute - was the only response from the good woman -. Maybe when the
lady is tired and shut up, open it to tell me ... In short, do not say anything. "

XXVI

"Ja, ja ... Say what you went Doña Paca ...-- -. Would you dare to say something offensive
Me? Do not have known how to take Charge and Data! So what? Who ever told you that the ladies are
a bookkeeper? Failure to keep accounts or target anything, it was just the natural way my boundless
generosity. I let everyone I stole, I saw the thief's hand getting
into my pocket, and I was the fool ... I have always been so.

Is this sin?

The Lord forgive me. What God does not forgive, Benin, is the hypocrisy, the procedures with
overlapping, and study with some people make up their acts to look better what they are. I've
always been the soul of my face, and I presented to the eyes of the
world as I am, as it was, with my faults and qualities, just as God
made me ... But You have nothing to answer to me ... Or do you not
think of anything to defend?

- Madam, scallops, because I'm asleep.

-
No, you do not sleep, is a lie: the conscience will not let you sleep.

Acknowledge that I have reason and that you are of which are made
to disguise and hide their evil ... I will not say they are very evil,
so no. I am generous in this as in everything, and say weaknesses
... but What weakness!

We are fragile, you can truly say, "Do not call me Benina but ...». Fragility But do not worry,
because you know that I have to go with Mr. de Ponte stories to desprestigiarte, and pluck the flower
of his dreams ... What a laugh! ... Not seeing you, as you can not see, an elegant figure,
not a fresh, rosy face, and fine manners, no education for women, or anything like that, which
is why men fall in love, you've seen ... What? By God I fail. If you were honest, you're not,
nor ever will be ... Do you hear what I say?

- Yes, madam, I hear.

- If you were honest, I would say that Mr. de Ponte angel calls you by how well you do the garlic soup,
acartonaditas ... And do you think to yourself that this is sufficient reason for a angel woman
called out in full?

- But you do not care? ... Let Mr. de Ponte Delgado put the nicknames I want.

- You're right, yeah, yeah ... Can I say it ironically, that these big shots, very tanned in
society, often employ irony, and when we seem to worship, what they do is to take hair, as they
say ... For if man is on the right, and has smitten you with good order ... that everything could
be Benina ... things are very rare ... you must proceed with loyalty, and confess your macules,
Frasquito will not believe that the purity of the angels Heaven is anything compared to your purity.
If you do not, you're a bad woman ... The truth, Nina, in these cases the truth. The man believed
that you are a prodigy conservation, ha, ha ... you've done a miracle, because miracles would,
in the midst of life in Madrid and the kind of domestic service, a virginity of sixty years
... You plantarte in fifty-five, if you should ... But if you cheat on age, this is fraud very
common in our sex, jokes do not go with what is moral law, Nina, why not. Look, daughter,
I love you very much, and as a lady friend of yours and I advise that you speak clearly, tell
you your faults and falls. So the good Lord will not call hoax, they
walk the time you discover what her to hide.

No, Nina, no, my dear, tell all, although I get my face very red,
and congested the wart you carry in your face.

Confess your severe lack of those times, when thirty-five years ...
and have value for say, "Mr. D. Bottle, I wanted a civilian guard
was called Romero, who took me disordered over two years, and finally
refused to marry me ...».

We, women, not for you wear scarlet. After all, what was it? Love a man. As for women that have
come into the world to love men. You had the misfortune to stumble with one, you went wrong.
Matter of luck, my dear. This is you were crazy about him ... I remember well. I could not
stand, did not do anything right. Sisabas a great time, and while you did not have a decent suit,
he did not lack good cigars ... To me, he saw your sufferings and your blindness, as tormented
and without a quiet day, instead of fleeing of punishment, going to him for me, I saw all this,
nobody has to tell me, Nina. I know history, but not know the whole entire thing because I've always
hidden ... and I reported things I do not know if they are true or not ... They told me that
you had your love ...

- That's not true.

- And you threw it to the Foundling ...

- That's not true - he repeated with emphasis Benina firm and sonorous voice, sitting up in bed. To
hear, suddenly stopped Doña Paca, as the little mouse that night,
feeling constantly gnaw steps or the man's voice.

Was heard only, for a long time, the occasional sigh very profound for the lady, who then began
to complain and grumble under his breath. The other is not complaining. Quick crisis had made
the genius of the unhappy lady, determining a sharp turn of vane. Trocáronse anger and displeasure
to the point tenderness and affection. Occur soon the clearest symptom of sedation, he was a keen
remorse of what he had said and shame to remember, did not mean anything because the grunts, and complain
imaginary pain. As Benina not respond to these demonstrations, Doña Paca, and about midnight, it
started to call her "Nina, Nina, if you only knew how bad I am! What a nochecita I'm going!
Looks like I applied a hot iron on the side, and tear me to pulling the leg bones. I have
the head as if I had got the brains, putting in place of bread crumbs and parsley finely chopped ...
Not bothered, I have not told me make a cup of lime, rub me back
and give me a ballot salicylate bromide, or sulphonal ... This is
horrible.

You sleep like a basket. Well, woman, rest, a little fat ... I do not want to bother. "

Without a word, Nina left the pallet, and throwing a skirt, made the cup tila in economic stove,
and before or after giving medicine to the sick, and then rubs, and
finally went to bed with her to coo like a child, until getting sleep
it off.

Mrs. Longing forget his previous rant, I thought the best way was
clear loving the evil expressions of ideas before, and so, while his
companion cooed, he would say: "If I did not have you I do not know
what would happen to me.

And then I complain to God, and say things and to insult him as if
he were a nobody.

I really deprived of many goods, but I have given your company and
friendship, which is worth more than gold and silver and shiny ...
Y I remember now, what do you advise I should do in case of renewed
D. Francisco Morquecho and D. José María Porcell embassy with that
inheritance?

...

- But, Madam, if thats what you dreamed ... and such men are a thousand
years achantaditos very underground.

- You are right: I dreamed ...
But if not those, others might come to the same music the best day.

-
Who says no? Have you ever dreamed you with empty boxes?

Because this is a sign of inheritance safe.

- And you, what you dream?

- Me? Last night we were with a black bull.

- So that means that we will discover a hidden treasure ... Look you,
who tells us that this old house, once inhabited the rich merchants,
there is within such partition wall or a pot full of pelucones well?

-
I have heard tell that in the last century lived here a few stockists
of cloth, powerful and when he died ... no money was not found.

It may be that the paninis. There have been cases, many cases.

- I have certainly money is on this farm ... But you know where they hid démontrer these indinos.
Is not there a way to find out?

- I do not know ... I do not know!
- Benina murmured, letting fly his mind wander to the eastern spells
proposed by Almudena.

- And if the walls do not, under the tiles
of the kitchen or pantry can be what these gentlemen hid, thinking
that they would enjoy in the afterlife.

- May be ... But it is more
likely to be in the walls, or a guess, on roofs, including beams ...

-
I think you're right.

The same can be up than down. I assure you that when strong floor in hallways and dining room,
and swept through the mansion as if to collapse, I think I feel a ruidillo ... metal and they
sound and they ding ... Have not you felt?

- Yes, ma'am.

- And if not, try it now.

Date walks around the room, stomping, and hear ...».

Benin and his wife obeyed his command, with no less conviction and faith that she, in effect ...
heard a metallic clang, which could not only come from the huge amounts of silver and gold
(probably more gold than silver) embedded in the ancient factory.

This illusion both asleep, and dreams were still hearing the ting, ting ...

The house was like a huge body, sweating, and each of its infinite
pores let go one ounce, or center, or twenty-one and a quarter penny.

XXVII

In the early morning the next day was Cambroneras Benina way, with his basket on his arm thinking,
not without concern, in the exaltation of the good Almudena, which would lead to early madness,
if she, with her very quick, he could not restrain the right. Below the Puerta de Toledo and
found the other poor Burlada calling a stubborn child. Said to her fellow parishioners who had
moved his home to the Bridge, not being able to fix in the kidney of Madrid with the high cost
of rent and the meanness of the fruit of charity. In a shack by the river gave accommodation for
little more than nothing, and this advantage united to ventilate the field trips that gave morning
and afternoon, the river and point to point river. Asked by Benin on the Moor and his blind
housing, replied that it had seen near the fountain, past the bridge, asking, but did not know
where he dwelt. "Well, with God, madam - said goodbye Burlada -. Are not you going to the point
now? I do ... because although little is gained, there is a settlement. Now I have every evening
a good Platão ca food on Mr. Banker, who lives very entrance facing the street las Huertas,
and live as a canon, enjoying to see how he sharpens the snout to
the Caporal when the girl Mr. banker takes me my big cazolón of edible
... In short: with this and something goes down, live, Dona Benin,
and can be a bug in the rich.

Goodbye, which have fun, and find your health Moor ... Well, preserved. "

Followed each his due, and the entrance of the bridge on the road and ran Benina declining that
to the right leads to the suburb called Cambroneras, to the left bank Manzanares, at low land.
As he found a small square, bordered on the west side by a common building, the south by the
railing of the bridge abutment, and the other two unequal sides sandy slopes and embankments,
are born wild thorns, thistles and stunted grass. The site is colorful, airy, and might almost
say happy, because since it is dominated by the green banks of the river, washing and dish clothes
tenderijos thousand colors. To the west stands the mountains, and the opposite bank of the
river cemeteries San Isidro, San Justo, offering a spectacular view to both tuft of cemeteries
and both dark green cypress ... The melancholy inherent in the cemeteries not deprive them in
that picture, its decorative nature, as a good backdrop added by
man to Nature.

To descend slowly toward the square, he saw the beggar two donkeys ... What do I say two? eight
ten or more donkeys, with their angry red collars, and with them groups of Gypsies sunbathing,
which flooded the neighborhood with its radiant light, cheerful giving shine to were adorned with
colorful gross and people. In the animated huddles all was laughter, chacota, running to and
fro. The girls jumped, the boys ran in pursuit; the children, dressed in rags, tumbled, and donkeys
were kept only serious and reflective in the midst of unrest and commotion. Old gypsy women,
some tanned complexion and black circle gossiping in separate Grandón arrimaditas the building,
a house regular racer look. Two or three girls wash cloths in the middle puddle of the square
is formed with escurriduras and waste from the local source. Some of these girls were very dark
skinned, almost black, which highlighted the filigree hanging their ears, others color of mud, all
agile, graceful, and drop-waisted esbeltísimas language. He sought the old familiar faces among
those people, and look around here and there, thought he recognized a gypsy who had once been
in the hospital, going to pick up a friend of hers. He would not approach the group in which such
other disputed on a donkey whose sores were the subject of lively discussion, and waited a favorable
opportunity. This was soon come, because entangled two churumbeles clean punch, the one with legs
open from top to bottom, showing the black cops, the other with a sort of turban on his head, and
all dressed in a man's sweater: the gypsy came to separate; ayudole Benin, and Immediately
afterwards he holed in this way:

"Tell me, good friend, have you seen around here yesterday and today to a blind man they call Almudena
moro?

- Yes, ma'am: halo seen ... jablao with him - said the gypsy, showing two teeth racing ideal
because of their whiteness, equality and perfect preservation, which
highlighted within the case two large, fleshy lips, a violation retinto
-.

We saw in the bridge ... she said she dende dwelling houses last night Ulpiano ... and ...
I do not know what else ... Desapártese, good woman, this beast is many inconsiderate, and kicks
...».

Benina fled from the chair, looking around him the great hind
legs of a donkey, two peas beaten, and to know the tricks and his
education asses and gitanesca, and went to the houses that he motioned
that of perfect teeth. With an oath the man who held Frank threw him
aside, at the same moment shooting in the direction of the flash of Greene's pistol. But the
Englishman's revolver spoke at the same moment, and he too fell. Frank's ruse had saved the day!

CHAPTER XIV

MENTIONED IN DISPATCHES!

"Keep back!" called Greene sharply to Frank.

His revolver still in his hand, he flashed the powerful light Frank had used in the monoplane
into the faces of the two Germans. They lay groaning within a foot or two of one another.

"No tricks!" said Greene, sharply. "I don't want to finish you, but I'll shoot again if you
make a move, except you can throw away your revolvers."

He spoke in German, and both of the wounded men obeyed. Frank was immensely relieved. He had
been afraid that they had been killed, and the thought had sickened him. He realized fully
that it would have been in accordance with the idea of war had Greene killed them both; that
it would have been no more than his duty. And yet he was more than glad that they were alive
and, so far as he could judge at that moment, not badly hurt or not dangerously wounded, at least.

"Fill that tank with the petrol," said Greene to Frank, "but leave a little in the can."

Frank obeyed, wondering why the order was given. Then Greene pushed the monoplane along the
ground for some distance until it was in a favorable position to take the air.

"All right! Get in!" he said. "Strap yourself in. Know how the straps go? Right! I'm going
to make a bonfire. It'll bring someone to help those poor chaps. I don't want them to have
to lie here all night unless they have to."

He took the can which Frank had almost emptied and poured what gasoline remained on the ground
that had been protected from the rain by one wing of the monoplane. Then he flung a match into
the now highly inflammable stubble, and a flame leaped up at once, lighting the monoplane and
the two wounded Germans. In a moment more he was in his place and the monoplane was plunging
along the ground. Then it took the air and rose swiftly to a safe height. And then for the
first time there was a chance for explanations.

"By Jove, how did you come to think of flashing that message to me?" cried Greene. "That was
an idea! I almost gave it all away by answering before I realized what you were telling me.
What was that fire I saw? Looked to me like the very place you said you were going to."

So Frank explained.

"Oh, splendid--my word, splendid!" cried Greene. "I fancy we'll find they've started this way
already. Hullo--yes, by Jove, there come some of our fellows now! See, over there to the right?
Aeroplanes--gone to spot those Johnnies. They didn't wait for us to come back!"

He dropped to a bare hundred feet of elevation now and in a moment Frank could see why. Below
them a mass of cavalry was in motion.

"There they go!" cried Greene. "Your beacon gave them the line. The general must have decided
that was confirmation enough."

Now came a shouting from below, and Greene answered it by swooping down to a landing in the
field. An officer put his horse to the wall and rode up beside them.

"Captain Greene, by any chance?" he called, peering at them.

"Yes, colonel," said Greene, saluting. "The Germans are in a clump of woods on the Amiens road.
In an angle of that road and the one from LaFere, rather. I don't know the exact strength,
but have reason to believe about five thousand."

"There's no doubt about their being there, though?"

"None at all, sir. They shot a hole in my tank, and I had to wait to get enough essence to
come back. All mine leaked before I could make a landing to plug the bullet hole. Did you start
on the sight of that burning house?"

"Yes. The staff couldn't see why a house should be burning unless there were Germans about.
Very well. Report back to headquarters, captain. They're waiting for you."

"Very well, sir."

"I thought so," he said to Frank, when they were in the air again. "You'll hear more of this
night's work before you've done, my boy. There's a deal of gratitude due you. But I'd like
to know what those Dutchmen were up to!"

Five minutes more saw them landed safely at headquarters, and it was only a few moments before
they were in the presence of General Smith-Derrien. He listened to Greene's brief report in
silence.

"There is more to be told of what my passenger and observer did, sir," he added, when he had
sketched the essential facts. "I will make a written report of that direct to you."

"Do so," said the general. "You have done very well. Had it not been for the information we
have obtained in this way, the whole headquarters staff might have been captured. The Germans
evidently learned, through spies, of the orders that had been issued for continuing the retirement,
and had slipped this force through to intercept the staff. I have been able to turn the tables
on them, however. They will have trouble, I think, in escaping the forces sent against them."

For some time heavy firing had been heard in the direction of the woods where the Germans had
lain. Now this died away. General Smith-Derrien glanced significantly at a colonel of his staff
and permitted himself the luxury of a smile, a rare one for him in those days of the retreat.

Just then the telephone on his table rang. The nearest officer answered, listening attentively
for a moment.

"Colonel Mewbray using the field telephone, sir," he said to the general. "It's been connected
with our wires here. He reports that the horse artillery completely surrounded the wood in
which the Germans were quartered, and shelled the woods for ten minutes. After that the Germans
ceased firing, and when we played searchlights a dozen white flags were shown. The German commander,
General von Garnst, surrendered to avoid a further useless sacrifice of lives." Eighty and two
years old on February 3, San Blas blessed, a day after the Candelaria, why what I wanted to live
or what had been lost here? A man who served the King twelve years that for forty-five had been
stung thousands of thousands of tons of stone on these roads of God, and that was always well regarded
and puntoso, had nothing to do and, more to entrust the gravedigger who put a lot of land, much
land over, and pack it. In quantitative placed the two creatures, would lie not rise until
the day of Judgement in the afternoon ... And rise last! Pierced with grief upon hearing the
reference Benina so much misfortune, whose sincerity could not put into question, said the old man
to take her to where the child was ill, and soon was conducted to a room dark, on the ground
floor Large house corridor, where they lived together, for the payment of three pesetas a month,
average dozen beggars with their offspring. Most of these complained bitterly at the time in
Madrid, looking for the holy bitch. Benina saw only an old, petiseca and sleepy, it seemed drunk,
and a potbellied female, swollen, vinous, tight skin, like a corambre filled with the face Erysipelas,
poorly wrapped in cloths of different colors. On the ground, on a thin mattress covered with pieces
of yellow cloth and tattered blankets Morella, lay the sick girl, about six years, the pale
face, clenched fists in the mouth. "What has this creature is hungry - Benina said, who, having touched
on the forehead and hands, found it cold as marble.

- Maybe so, because hot thing has not come into our bodies from yesterday.

"

No longer needed a kind old lady, that it overwhelms the piety, which flooded mighty your soul and
bringing to reality his intentions with the speed that was her property, was at once to the grocery
store in the corner of that building there, and bought you need to get a pot immediately, also
taking eggs, coal, cod ... because she never did things by halves. At the time, and were remedied
those unhappy and others were added, the smell induced across the bottom of the hive soon spread.
And the Lord had to reward his charity, department, among the beggars attended the banquet,
a cripple with no legs, walking with arms, that he gave him true news of the lost order Almudena.

Moor
slept in the homes of Ulpian, and he spent the day praying hard,
and playing a guitar with two strings that Madrid had brought all
this without leaving a section dunghill, which falls below the flea
season, at the bridge looking towards Segovia.

There he was Benina slowly, because the person who guided journey was slow, as one who walks
with the buttocks bound in soil, on hands, and these in two billets of wood. By the way, the man
from the waist upwards ventured some indications criticism of the Moor, and somewhat bizarre
behavior. He thought that was Almudena cleric in the land, wants to say, priest of Zancarrón,
and in those days was the majometana penance of Lent, which consists of giving heels in the
air, eat only bread and water, and moisten palms with saliva. "What the harp sings hoarse should be
a matter of funerals there, because it sounds sad and mourn feel like hearing it. In short,
madam, there you have it lying on the carpet of peaks, and so still it seems who have turned
to stone. "

Distinguished, in fact, Benina the motionless figure of the blind, in a landfill, slag, rubble
and garbage, which is between the road and the path of Cambroneras amid absolute aridity, for neither
tree nor bush, nor any plant species growing there.

He went on the despernado, and Benin, with his basket on his arm, crawling up the heap, not without
difficulty, for he loose material that formed was the slope, slipped easily. Before winning could
the height at which the African was, loudly announced their arrival, saying: "But, son, go to
a site that has been to choose to put the sun! Do you want to dry off, and become leather drums?
... Eh ... Almudena, who am I, who am I going up these carpeted stairs! ... Chico, but what?
... Are you stupid, you asleep? ".

The Moroccan did not move, her face turned toward the sun, like a piece of meat would toasting.
Tirole the old one, two, three stones, until he got hit.

Almudena moved with trepidation, and his knees, cried: "B'nina, you B'nina.

- Yes, my son: here's this poor old woman, who comes to see the wilderness
where you dwell.

Well has not given you bad gust of wind! And that does not cost me a little work to find you!

-
B'nina! - Excitedly repeated the blind child, who was revealed in
a flood of tears, and the shaking of hands and feet -.

You vinir sky.

- No, son, no - said the good woman, and arrived with him, and giving slaps on shoulder -. Not
come from heaven, but I go to these cursed land crags. What an idea that has given you poor
Moor! Tell me, what is your country like that? ".

Mordechai did not answer this question, silenced them.

The blind man felt it with his hand trembling as if seeing it for the touch.

"I came - said the beggar at the end - because I thought, a guess,
you'd be starving.

- Did not eat me ...

- Do you do penance?

You could have put in a better place ...

- This micor ... Mount
Bunite.

- What a mountain!

What do you call this?

- Mount Sinai ... Me to be Sinai.

- Where you are is in the clouds.

-
You vinir with angels, B'nina ... vinir you with fire.

- No, son,
do not bring fire or necessary, that enough achicharradito're here.

You're being drier than a cod.

- Micor ... I want to dry ... and burn like paix.

- In straw you
would become if I let you.

But do not leave, and now you eat and drink I bring in my basket.

-
Did not eat me ... squieleto me to be.

"

Without waiting for more reasons, Almudena spread his hands, touching
the ground.

He sought his guitar, Benin saw and picked up, two-stringed strumming intemperate.

"Dami, dami! - Said the blind impatient, inspiration hit."

And grabbing the instrument, struck the strings, and got them sounds sad, Broncos, without harmonic
coherence between them. And then began to sing in Arabic a strange chant, accompanied with dry
and rhythmic sounds that drew the two strings. Benina heard this Cantici with true devotion,
for though it told him nothing of the lyrics and guttural extremely rough, or the cadence of
similarity are found here styles, it is that such music was an intense melancholy. Constantly
moving the blind head, as if to lead the words of her song to different parts of the sky, and
set in Lays some vehemence and enthusiasm burning denoting that he was possessed.

"Well, son, well - the old woman said when she finished singing -. I really like your music
... But the stomach does not tell you that he does not catechins
with these songs, and that you like best good lean?

- Eat your ...
me singing ... I ate with you the joy of being me.

- Do you feed
it with me here?

Bonita substance!

- Me wants you ...

- Yes, son, love me, but please realize that I
am your mother, and I come to take care of you.

- You be Bunite.

-
Mia I pretty ... more years of San Isidro, and this misery and this
fascist!

".

No less inspired talking than singing, Almudena said, "You be the
zucena com, branca ... D'Com palm desert belt of yours ... casmines
roses and mouth you ... the evening star thine eyes.

- Mary!

I had not yet learned how beautiful I am.

- Donzella tudas, envy of you had them ... Regocijación Hiciéronte
God hands.

Loan you angels with harp.

- San Antonio blessed!

... If you wish to create all those things you must do me a favor eat what you bring. After you
have filled your belly talk, now you're not in your right mind. "

Saying, was taken out of the basket bread, tortillas, canned meat and a bottle of wine. Listing provisions,
believing that this will awaken the appetite, and as the final argument said: "If you insist
on not eating, I get angry, and not be back again to see you. Say goodbye to my mouth of roses
and my eyes as the stars of heaven ... And then you have to do everything that I command you:
Come back to Madrid, and live in your house as soon as you lived.

-
If you marry me, this yes ... If not married, no.

- Do you eat or
not eat?

Because I have not come here to waste time by lying sermons - said
Benina displaying all the energy of her accent -.

If you insist on fasting, I'm going now.

- Eat your ...

- Both.

I come to you, and have lunch together.

- Casar thou me?

- Oh really heavy man! You look like a boy.

I will be forced to give you a couple of punches ... Ha, Moor, eat and feed, which will be discussed
at the wedding. Do you think I'm going to take a husband dry in the sun, which is lagging like
a scroll? ".

With these and other reasons persuaded him, and finally stopped the
unfortunate to be squeamish food.

Beginning with Repulgue, eventually devouring voraciously.

But he did not leave his subject, and in between bites, said: "I tigo Casar ... terra Dirna mine
... I married for arreligión yours if you want ... Arreligión you marry for me, if you want
it ... Me be d'Israel ... Baptism jacieron confirencia me ladies
... Put my name Joseph Marien Almudena ...

- José María de la Almudena.

If you are a Christian, talk to me no other arreligiones bad.

- Not have more than one God, one, only he - said the blind man, possessed of mystic exaltation
-. He melecina to the brokenhearted ... He stars count number, and by them tudas name calling. Adonai
love animals and Tuda cuatropea, and the bird-wing ... Alleluyah! ...

- Well, yes, now let us sing Alleluia to not hurt us food.

- Voice of Adonai on the water, on water mochas. The voice of Adonai with forza, voice Adonai with
jermosura. Adonai's voice breaks the Alarza of Lebanon and as fixed Tsion unicorns ... The voice of
Adonai short flames, face D'desert tremble, tremble Farah Adonai Kader D'desert ... The voice of
Adonai face adoloriar deer ... In his palace that tudas Grolier. Adonai settled by the flood
... Adonai bless her with peace puelbro ...».

Even continued reciting prayers in Hebrew fifteenth century Castilian, which from memory retained children,
and respect Benina heard him, waiting to bring it ended to reality
and subject to the common life.

They talked a while about the desirability of making to the Inn of
Santa Casilda, but he seemed not willing to please extremely important,
while not giving her word to accept his black formal hand.

He tried to explain the attraction that, in the state of his mind, he exerted on the crags
and tailings in arid at that time was. Actually, he knew not explain or understand Benina but
attentive observer may well be a glimpse into this strange fondness a case of atavism or feedback
to the old instinct, seeking the solitude geographical similarity rocky in the beginning of
the life of the race ... Is this nonsense? Maybe not.

XXIX

With all his wit and mischief could not convince the old Moroccan
opportunity Madrid turning to the high.

"I do not know - he said using all the arguments - I do not know how are you going to fix you
to live in this mountain of your penance. Because you do not ask, here one has to bring you the
pea, except to me, and I, if now I have some money soon I'll be without a speck, and I will
have to order it with shame. Do you expect you here dropping your mana?

- Yes manj Cader - Almudena replied with deep conviction.

- Trust that ... But tell me one thing, son: Will there be money buried here?

- Have mocha, mocha.

- Well, son, see if you take it out, which in this case would not
waste time.

But quia! I do not think me that you count potatoes or witchcraft that you've brought your
land of infidels ... No, no: there is no salvation for the poor, and that removing treasures,
or bring it one the truckloads of precious stones, it seems to me that it is conversation.

-
If you marry me, this I find treasures mocha.

- Well, well ... Then get to work for the investigation of where the barrel filled money. I will
come to draw with, and as true, to marry touch. "

Saying, collected in your basket leftovers to go. Almudena opposed it was so soon, but she insisted
on retiring, the firm he spent on all occasions "Then it would be good for me to stay I'm
here, put the sun and the air like a coat in the dryer Tanners! And tell me, Almudenita: are you
going to keep me here? And my wife, who keeps the peak? ".

This reference to the home of Mrs. Mordechai awakened the memory of the gallant Bunite, and as
excite more than usual on this occasion, hastened to soothe Benina the news that Ponte had
already left their aristocratic palaces, and that neither she nor her mistress Dona Francisca wanted
to try and brush with sly old man who had given them a poorly paid, farewell to the French, and the
boarding was a duty. The African Tragose this ball with childlike innocence, and promise and
swear by her friend that day to see him again While he continued
in that obligation of its bitter penance, let him go. Was Benina above,
preferring to go to the station, as output more comfortable and practical.

Back
home, the first thing his wife was asked if he knew when he returned
from Guadalajara D. Romualdo, to which she replied that no news had
yet to secure the return of sir. Nothing occurred worthy of note that
day, but quickly improved Ponte, putting very joyful with the visit
of Obdulia, which spent four hours talking with him and his mom of
fancy things, and Ronda events forty years earlier in the present
era. It should be noted also that he was undermining Benina money
because the child ate there, and it was necessary to add stuffing
hake regular, plus dates and pastries for dessert. With the expense
of those days, with the prodigality charitable Cambroneras, harsh
which subtracted from the loan Pitusa after pressing debts paid off,
they would reduce for hours to get into one, or so, the day of the
third escape from the suburbs Toledo Bridge.
But when the hole had been dug to a depth of perhaps two feet, and Frank began to hollow out
a trench toward the barrels he began to understand. And as soon as he did, he worked as hard
as Frank himself, careless of torn finger nails and bleeding hands. They carried the trench
to the foot of one of the barrels, and Frank turned the tap. The gasoline ran out into the
trench, and flowed to the hole. Frank ran back to the hole.

"Stop it when I give the word," he said. "Now!"

Then he was busy with the copper wire he had brought from the automobile for several minutes.
The wire had been carried either to repair cut telegraph or telephone wires, or to serve as
the conductor for a field system of lighting. But whatever its original purpose had been, Frank
was thankful now that he had found it. He worked fast, and was satisfied at last.

"Now a little straw and a few twigs over the hole and the trench--and the sooner they come,
the better!"

"Yes, the sooner, the better!" echoed Henri, tremendously excited, now that he understood,
even if rather vaguely, what Frank planned. "Vive la France! A bas les Allemands!"

As they went back toward the road Frank trailed the wire behind him in two lengths. And when
they reached the road, he dropped into the ditch, and was busy for some minutes.

"Now if it only works!" he said. "Perhaps it will; perhaps it won't. But it can't do any harm.
That's certain."

"They're coming closer. I think I can see their shapes now--and there are two of them," said
Henri. "Do you see?"

For a moment Frank could not. Henri's eyes were sharper than his. But then he did make out
vaguely two immense shapes that were coming through the air. Soon, too, the faint hum of their
powerful motors made itself heard.

"Zeppelins and big fellows, too," said Frank. "All the better!"

He wondered if his plan would work, and if he would be able to carry it out. If, in the final
test, would he dare to do what he had tried to arrange? Time enough to think of that when the
moment for decision came. And meanwhile there were a hundred things that might happen to ruin
his plan. There was nothing to do now but wait. But every moment of waiting brought the climax
nearer. The hum of the motors of the airships rose louder on the quiet air, broken only by
the faint and distant mutter of the battle that was still being fought miles away. It sounded
now like the buzzing of a swarm of bees, magnified a thousand times. And then the field was
full of men, rushing from the inn. He wondered how they could have been concealed there. But
such wonder was idle, and he did not think of it. Instead he watched keenly. First one monstrous
aerial battleship came to rest on the earth. At once the men in the field surrounded her, seizing
the ropes that were flung out, and made her fast.

There was a good deal of noise. Men were calling in German of course. But soon order was restored,
and the only voices were those giving commands. Suddenly Frank's face lighted up.

"Did you understand, Henri?" he said. "The men in the field are to be the crews for the fighting.
They have sailed here with only enough men to steer them. And now all are ordered out, to stretch
their legs!"

"Yes, I heard that order," said Henri.

"Now keep your eyes glued to them. What are they doing?"

They listened and watched intently.

"Just as I thought," said Frank. "See, they are going to fill the tanks. There, they are attaching
hose. And they have a pump--they surely must have a pump, to send the petrol uphill!"

Meanwhile the other airship had come down, on the other side of the barrels, and there as nearly
as they could judge, the same procedure was carried out.

"Watch, Henri! Are they pumping?" cried Frank.

"Yes!" said Henri. "Now--now--now is your time, Francois!"

Frank hesitated the fraction of a second.

"If it meant killing them, I could not do it," he said, solemnly. "But they are all out of
the airships. Now!"

On the word he closed the circuit he had made by connecting the loose ends of the wire he had
carried from his petrol filled hole to the two batteries he had brought from the car. He had
broken the circuit at the other end, leaving the two wires separated by the fraction of an
inch, and cunningly held in place. The result was a spark--or would be, if he had not erred.

And he had made no mistake! For as he closed the circuit, he saw a flash of flame at the spot
where he and Henri had dug the hole into which the petrol had flowed from the barrel they had
opened. The spark had fired the explosive gas that results when petrol is mixed with air. The
flame ran along the shallow trench, and, amid a chorus of shrieks from the Germans who scattered
in all directions, the fire reached the barrel. In a moment there was a loud explosion. The
flame flew to the other barrels--the whole neighborhood of the barrels, owing to the mixture
of the petrol and the air, was then filled with an explosive and inflammable gas. It was then, amid turmoil always produce
new perspectives, radical changes in the course of life, when I realized my love for the people
so open and generous hospitality I had given. And it was certainly unique sense of my personal
gratitude: it was somewhat higher, was the deep affection for this society that spoke of my country
with a marked predilection above all nations of the continent and had wanted to honor me the representative
of Argentina land.
 Indeed, even the Germans had no other thought than to save their own
lives. Their raid, whatever its ultimate object, was ruined and two vessels of the great air
fleet of the Kaiser were destroyed. 

Nothing more delicious than the temperature change as you ascend. From the tropical line we have been
breathing a fiery atmosphere that has become almost candescente La Guaira. In the mountains,
fresh air refresh every minute and lungs are not used to that feeling exquisite, breathing fast, with
the same joy with which the birds flap their wings morning.

The drive is heavy and galling, for the continuous shaking of the road is constantly destroyed
by the rains and the frequency of traffic. I look to the future with envy watching the work
being done in the midst of many difficulties, to draw a railway line. Does it take place?
At least, I know that is a collective aspiration in Venezuela, because of it, as some other not very
large, the transformation depends of that country [5].

At half past eight p.m. we finally reached the valley watered so often delicious by blood and
within which boasts Caracas, the noble city is the birthplace and tomb Bolívar.

Before proceeding further, it should throw an overall look on the wonderful country I just
walked on, amazed at the thousands of special circumstances making it one of wealthy areas
of American soil. Ocean washes the shores of Venezuela an immense extent and its entrails are
watered by huge rivers like the Orinoco, the Meta and other tributaries that cross territories,
such as Guyana, have even more gold its members that sought by the conquistadors in the veins
fabulous Eldorado ...

What products to those human needs has not sprout abundant accurate
the land fertilized by the sun of the tropics? But now it was uttered
in a vastly different tone. The German was beside himself with rage. Perhaps he had had some
heavy share of responsibility for the safety of the Zeppelins. But whether that were so or
not, he was plainly maddened by the sight of the boys. He could scarcely have understood how
completely they were responsible, but the way they were running and the direction whence they
came proved only too clearly that they had had some hand in it.

"Stop, Henri!" cried Frank, suddenly. "We can't get away. We surrender!"

They stopped. Frank was obeying the order Major Cooper had given him. Perhaps, had he been
alone, he would have risked a further attempt to escape. But there was no doubt that the German
meant to shoot, and he could not expose Henri to the risk.

They stopped full in the path of light that came from the open door of the inn. Behind them,
in the road, voices were raised. It was plain that their wires had been followed, and that
others were in pursuit. And, after all, Frank felt they could afford to grin at being made
prisoners now. They had accomplished a great feat. Even if they were caught, that was to their
credit.

And then suddenly he gave a cry of horror. Henri was a little ahead of him for he had not been
able to stop as abruptly as Frank. And the German officer, too furious, perhaps, to think of
what he was doing, raised his pistol and fired point-blank at the French boy! He fired--but
there came from his pistol not a sharp report, but only the dull click as the hammer fell.
Twice more he pulled the trigger. But something was wrong. He had made a fatal error--his revolver
was unloaded.

But it was only by the luckiest of accidents that Henri was still alive. Frank had seen the
murderous attempt, and now rage mastered him for the moment.

"You coward!" he shrieked. He flung himself at the German officer, who was trying frantically
to get at his cartridges. So sudden was the attack that he was taken utterly by surprise. Before
he could defend himself, Frank was wrenching his arm. A moment more, and the German officer
squealed like a frightened pig, for Frank had succeeded in getting a hammer lock on him. I ask the Lord to reward the good treatment they give you, and my biggest
today would be happy to know that D. Romualdo I made him bishop.

-
Well, sounds like the run run they're going to propose, yes, ma'am,
Bishop not know how, beyond the islands of the Philippines.

- So far?

No, not that. Over here they have to leave to do much good.

- Same Patros think, you know? most of the nieces.

- Is that you've said has gray hair and squint a bit?

- No, this is the other.

- Ya, ya ... Patras is the stuttering, and suffers from tremors.

- That.

He says that where they go for these seas so far ... No, no simple is better cure here, archbishop
there, where they say, are noon when here we twelve o'clock at night.

- In the antipodes.

- But the sister, Doña Josefa, said that come the miter, and is where God wills, she not afraid
to go to the end of the world, so to see the reverend in the position
it deserves.

- He may be right.

What do we do more than we will settle the Lord, if we are so far
in that amparándote to you, protects me, too?

You know God does, and could even be that what we believe was a poor well, and that D. good
Romualdo, to leave, leave us well recommended by a bishop here, or to own Nuncio ...

- I think so. Anyway, there we will see. "

It was not here the conversation about the imaginary priest, who knew Doña Paca and as if he had
seen and treated, forged in his mind a real type with elements descriptive and picturesque Benina
one day and another gave him.

But what else is pecked is in the pipeline to make room for more
important things.

"Tell me, woman. And what does Obdulia?

- Nothing. What to tell the poor? Luquitas the crook does not seem that way two days ago. Ensures
the child will have money, they took a stuffed, and he spends it with a mort Bonetillo the
street.

- Jesus me excuses! And his father, what does?

- Reprimand, punish, if you are caught by hand. What is this and does not straighten. The girl
send him food from home of parents, but so rated, that does not reach
the tusk.

Would die starve if I did not take it took. Poor angel! Well, you see, these days I I found
her happy. You know the girl is. When there are more reasons for is happy, gets to mourn, when
it should be sad, is marketed as a lark. Only God understands that panpipes and how to tune it.
Well I have seen happy, yeah lady, and it gives good things to figure out. Better way. It is believed
that all what they make themselves into your head. Thus, they are happy when they should be
miserable.

- Well if you get on the other hand, help you to feel ... And she was alone, entirely alone
with the girl?

- No, Madam, there was this gentleman so fine that accompanies some
mornings, that is family of the Delgados, countrymen you.

- Ya ...
Ponte bottle.

Imagine if you will know. It is my land, or of Algeciras, which is
to be the same.

Has been elegantón and strives to be still ... I warn you it's because
older than a palm ... Good person, a gentleman of principle, and knows
how to deal with ladies such that it is unusual and, for now everything
is rude and impolite.

Ponte becomes a brother-cousins ​​of my husband because he married her sister ... In short, I do
not remember kinship.

Glad you treating my daughter, because you agree to this subject
relations dignified, decent and good position.

- For the position
of this D. Bottle it seems to me that is like that of which is mounted
air, as well as the bright.

- In my day was a bachelor who was given
a good life.

Had a good job, ate at home large, and spent the night at the Casino.

- As should now be poorer than a rat, for the nights they are passed
...

- Where?

- In the enchanted palaces of Bernarda Sena, Grande
Rue de Midi ... the house of sleep, You know

- What you tell me?

-
That Ponte sleeps there when he has the three real hard bed in the
bedroom first.

- You are upset, Benin.

- I've seen, ma'am.

Bernarda is my friend. Was what gave us those hard eight, You know when Mrs. had to get an extra
card, and pay to send this to Ronda.

- Ya ... which came every day to claim the debt and we would fry the blood.

- Same. As with all good women. We have called for justice, although we threatened. Others are
worse.

You know you're rich, and sleep six houses he has, not lower than forty thousand dollars it has earned,
yes ma'am, and all this has put in Bank, and lives of interest.

- What things look!

Well is the world ... To return to the gentleman Ponte, so they called him in Andalusia, where
as poor as you say, will pity him ... And you better so, because the reputation the girl might
suffer some, if instead of being such a wreck, a poor beggar Levite
was a possible suitor, though old.

- I believe - Benina said laughing,
as his condition was shown in quantitative jovial that cares Life
gave him a break - which goes beyond ... to embalm him ... Lack good
makes.

And hurry up, before it is corruto. "

Doña Paca laughed a little with those occurrences, and then requested information of the other family.

"When
children have not seen him today or yesterday - said Benina - but I've said Juliana anda running
now as the same fumes, because with this the trancazo, have gone many advertisers of medicines.
Think a lot of money and take it a newspaper, particularly Store things putting a guess, where
they sell this article or other item. The two twins look like two rolls of butter, but well cooked
and well cooked they cost, He loves all know when they begin eating, but not when it ends. The
Juliana told me to prove some of the carnage that has to send his
uncle the day of the saint, and also two sections of booties, of spoiled
in the shoe to where she stitched.

- It is good that girl - Doña
Paca said gravely - but so ordinary, that does not match or never
match me.

Your gifts offend me, but I thank you for the good will ... Finally, it is time for us to
go to bed. Well, I think it is half done digestion, prepare the medicine in half an hour. Tonight I'm
more full of legs, and very lost sight. Holy God, if I go blind! I do not know what this is. As well,
thanks God and I will view every day, without my eyes ache. I do not spend the night awake, thank
you, that everything goes through me, and wake up, I deleted things my legs and made of cotton.
I say: What has to do with the visual rheumatism? I send to wander. But where am I going with
this facade, no decent clothes, fearing bumping at every step with people who knew me in another
position, or with those guys and ordinary profanity to whom we owe any amount? ".

Benina remembered hearing this the most important thing I had to tell his wife that night,
and not wanting to leave to the last minute, fearing to be unveiled,
before they left the kitchen, and while again and picked up the few
pieces of china to scrub, no Francisca disdaining this under-served,
said in a tone more natural to use known:

"Ah!

I do not remember ... What a head I have! Today I met Mr. D. Carlos Moreno Trujillo. "

He remained suspended Doña Paca, and came near to it fell from his hands the plate was washing.

'D. Carlos ... But did you say D. Carlos? And what ... Do you speak, you asked for me?

- Naturally, with an interest ...

- Is it really? In good times you remember me such a miser, who has seen me falling into poverty,
to me, the sister of his wife ... Purita and Antonio because my brothers were, you know ...
and has not been to reach out ...

- Last year, a day like today,
when she became widowed, sent the lady a Socorrito.

- Six hard!

What a shame! - Doña Paca said, turning his anger and animosity and
despite accumulated in his soul for so many years of disgrace and
scarcity -.

My face put as it were fire. Six hard! Purita and some rags, dirty gloves, skirts broken, and a
suit of society, ancient, from when he married the Queen ... What helped me those crap? ...
Finally, you continue: I found it, what time, what site?

- It was about 0:30. He left San Sebastian ...

- I know who spends all morning from church to church, gnawing bases. You say to 0:30? For
if at that time were you serving lunch to D. Romualdo! ".

It was not Benina woman cowered by this fuck. His mind, so fruitful for the lie, and his memory
most happy to sort the lies he had told before to support and enforce
them of the new lie, took her out of trouble.

"But I said to you that when they had set the table, missing a bowl, and I to go in a hurry
to buy the Plaza del Angel, and Mina Espoz corner?

- If you tell
me I can not remember.

But how were leaving the kitchen just before serving lunch?

- For the lass that we do not know the streets, and also do not understand shopping. Had taken a
century, and brings a basin fixed instead of a bowl ... I was flying,
Patros while he stayed in the kitchen ... he understands, believe
me it means both like me or more ... Anyway, I found the old thing
of D. Carlos.

- But to go from street to Espoz Greda and Mina did
not have to go through San Sebastian women.

- I say he was leaving
San Sebastian.

I saw him coming there, looking at the clock on Canseco. I was in the store. The shopkeeper came
out to greet him.

D. Carlos saw me, talk ...

- And what did he say?

Tell me what you said.

- Ah ... I said, I said ... He asked the lady and children.

- Does it matter to your heart of stone the mother or the children! A man who has Madrid thirty-four
houses, they say, as many as the age of Christ and one more, a man has earned lots of money
being smuggled gender, spreading to the U.S. Customs and cheating half the world, cuddling cum now!
In good times, green sleeves ... We say that I despise him, I'm proud of my misery others,
if poverty is a barrier between he and I ... Because this is not about the poor but with your account
and reason. Cree to delivering farthing alms and cheaply be provided by the prayers of the
humble, may deceive and defraud up eternal glory, or sneak contraband into the sky, making go
through what is not, as introduced the lisle percale declaring a
real and half the staff, to march false, false invoices, false certificates
of origin as well ... Did you say that?

Say, have you told?

XI

- I did not say that, madam, nor had to do - said Benina saw that Dona Francisca was excited too,
and that all the blood at her face up.

- But you do not remember what you did to me he and his wife, who was also Alexander in fist.
Then when they started my disasters, took advantage of my struggle to do his business. Instead
of helping, they pulled the rope to strangle me sooner. I saw devoured by usury, and were not
offering me a loan in good condition. They could save and let me die. And when I saw I must
sell my furniture, they bought from me for a piece of bread, golden room chairs and silk curtains
... Were the lookout for bargains, and lost me, threatened with foreclosure, of course ... presented
as saviors ... What I got for the San Nicolas de Tolentino, school Sevillian was the jewel of the
house of my husband, a picture he felt more than his own life? What gave me? Twenty hard Benina of my
soul, twenty hard! As I took silly in an hour, and I, who died of anxiety and shock, not knowing
what I did. For a man Museum told me later that the painting was worth less than ten thousand pieces
... You see what people! Not only true charity is always ignored, but neither knew the delicate
lining. From what we received from Ronda, buts, piñonates and alfajores, we sent him a good
Pura part. Then they met with a tray of sweets on the day of San Antonio, and some kitsch bazaar
on my birthday. D. Carlos was as freeloading, almost every day dropped home at the time that
drinking coffee ... And how it licked! You know that your house is not was more than dishwater.
And if we were going to play together, eat at my box, always arranged so that Anthony bought tickets
... Of rudeness that used to all the time our car, anything I say.

And remember the same day that we adjust the sale of the stalls, they were walking on it every
bit of the afternoon, giving him a resounding ratatouille the Castellana and Retirement. "

Benina refused to take the rope breaks and negative, because I knew
that when was fired at that issue was best left to give him every lap.

Until we put Mrs. point, flushed and breathless, did not venture
to say, "Well D. Carlos told me to go home tomorrow.

- Why?

- To
talk to me ...

- As if I saw it.

Want to send a charity ... Just: Today is the anniversary of the
Pure death ... Get away with any crap.

- Who knows, lady!

You may be starting ...

- Is that?

I can already see that puts you in his hand a couple of pesetas or a pair of hard, believing
that this feature has to lower the angels, playing violins and guitars, to praising his charity.
If I were you, refuse alms. While we have our D. Romualdo, we can afford a little bit of dignity,
Nina.

- Not in our interest.

And that might bother a guess, that you are proud and whatnot.

- Let him say. And who is going to say?

- At the same D. Romualdo, who is buddy. Every day we hear the Mass, and then throw a short
paragraph in the sacristy.

- Well, do what you want.

And what might occur, tell D. Who is D. Romualdo Carlos, and make him see that his last-minute
devotions are no receipt. Anyway, I know it's not You have to let me wrong, and you tell me tomorrow
what comes out of the visit, which is what the black sermon. "

Something else spoke.

Benina tried to extinguish and cool the conversation, avoiding mirrors and giving these conciliatory
tone. But the lady took to fall asleep, and the maid too, passing part of the night in the
mental preparation of strategic plans for the next day that would certainly be very difficult
if not had the luck that D. Carlos was put in hand a truncheon good hard ... may well be.

At the time fixed by Mr. de Moreno Trujillo, and minute or minute
less, called Benina at the door of the Main Street of Atocha, and
a maid entered the office, it was very elegant, just like all the
furniture in color and workmanship. Minister table occupied the center,
and she had many books and stacks of papers. The books were not read,
but accounts, all very clean and tidy. The wall of the center bore
the portrait of Doña Pura, covered with black gauze, which appeared
in part of pure gold.

Each day a new group of hostages was taken into the Hotel de Ville, now occupied as headquarters
by the German staff, rather than the buildings formerly used by the Second Corps d'Armee of
France. These hostages, it was explained, would be shot at once if orders were not obeyed or
if Germans were attacked. There were many irksome rules. Every citizen was required to salute
a German officer whenever he saw him. Lights must be out at a certain hour each night, and
after that hour any citizen found in the streets without a permit was liable to arrest and
execution without trial. They were under martial rule.

But always the sound of heavy firing in the southeast continued.

"I really believe the great battle is being fought at last, Henri!" said Frank. "We have heard
that firing now for three days. It comes from the direction of the Marne. There is another
thing. Since yesterday no troop trains have gone south through Amiens."

"But empty trains go through!" cried Henri. "And they come back, loaded with German wounded!
You are right, Francois! We have begun to drive the Prussians back to the Rhine!"

News they had none. All Amiens was cut off from the world. Whatever the German invaders knew
they kept strictly to themselves. It was only by such inferences as they could draw from the
sound of firing in the direction of Paris and by the passage of trains through the city that
they were able to form any opinion at all.

"I feel sure that there's a real battle going on," said Frank. "The firing is too heavy and
too continuous for a rear guard action. But as to who is winning, we can't tell. Sometimes
the firing seems to be a little nearer again, but that might be because of the wind. And as
for the trains that are going through, that doesn't really mean anything. They might have decided
to send troops to the front by another railway. They control the line through Rheims, too."

But the morning after they had decided that there was no real way to tell what was happening,
something definite did come up. Nearly all the troops in Amiens moved south. Only a few hundred
remained, enough to garrison the town and control the railway, since there seemed no danger
of an allied raid. But the fact that the other troops were being sent up to the front indicated
that the fighting was assuming a character far more desperate than the Germans had expected.

"They must be fighting on the line of the river Marne," said Frank. "You see, during that long
retreat, there was time to entrench there. And open field entrenchments seem to be better than
fortified places. Look at how quickly Namur fell, when everyone thought it would hold the Germans
back for days."

"The country there is difficult, too," said Henri. "My father said once that it was there that
the garrison of Paris should have fought first in 1870, instead of waiting inside the forts
for the Prussians to come."

"I think that everything favors us now, for the first time," said Frank. "The Germans have
been winning--they have made a wonderful dash through Belgium and France. They must have got
very close to Paris. I believe the roar of guns is as easy to hear in Paris as here. And then,
suddenly, when they think they are to have it all their own way, their enemy turns and faces
them, and holds them. That much we may be sure of. The battle has been raging now for four
days at least, perhaps for five. And the firing has certainly not gone further away. Even if
we are not gaining, it is a gain if the Germans cannot advance."

They were glad now that they were busy. A few refugees from the south were coming, driven back
by the Germans. Perhaps they would rather have tried to reach Paris, but the battle stopped
that. And always there were errands to be run, and messages to be carried. It went against
the grain to obey the orders of German officers, and to be obliged to salute these officers
whenever they were encountered, but it was necessary. Niagara, on the other hand, with its reputation, with its easy access, universal
consecration of her beauty has some of these lieux communs of literature classic, which, admired
by men of all time, end up becoming choruses. In short, I was away one night and was still
ahead five or six days; I set off. Decided to go for the line of Erye going to Buffalo and Niagara
Fall's, draw the borders of Canada to Albany, and then from there to New York down the Hudson.

At
half past seven p.m. I entered one of these superb palace-car, found
only in the American lines and took up the compartment reserved in
advance.

The sleeping-car Americans, arranged with more luxury than Europeans, are undoubtedly more comfortable.
A central corridor, on either side, small divisions that are easily isolated by light curtains and
walls, the beds are placed within the meaning of the wagon. Broad, clean and warm. In each compartment
there are two, one below and one above, but while not likely, the two sofas, vis-a-vis, can
hold four people. I had retained below the bed, so I drew attention to reach the Division
I corresponded installed and see two people. They were a white-bearded man of about 60 years
of age and a girl of 20, slim, nice and fine features. There was still a quarter of an hour
the departure of the train, and I began to be alarmed at night than I expected in case there
had been error in the allocation of parts.

- Sorry, sir - I said in my broken English, - in this compartment there are only two beds,
and I have the ticket of one of them

.
 He looked back,
to see two Germans holding his chum.

CHAPTER XX

A DESPERATE GAME

Frank had sped away because he was afraid that the officer might recognize him in a moment
also. And yet it was not fear, in the sense that he was fearful of what might happen to him,
that led him seemingly to abandon his comrade. It was the knowledge that were he too a prisoner,
there would be no hope for either of them. 

It is well to note now is the perfect match between the person of the priest and his Kidron
name because of the stature, strength and even the color could be compared a big cedar trees
that among men, looking at each other's characters, there are also similarities and relationships.
Tallud is cedar, and also beautiful, noble, wood somewhat brittle, but pleasant and fragrant. For
as was D. Romualdo: Grandon, stocky sunburnt, and at the same time excellent person, of irreproachable
conduct in the church, Hunter, man of the world to the extent it can be a healing, peaceful genius,
persuasive speech, tolerant of human frailties, charitable, merciful, in short, procedures orderly
arrangement and good as well got along with his position well off. Dressed neatness, without boasting
of elegance without limit smoking good cigars, and ate and drank everything claiming the support
of such strong bones and muscles so hard. Big feet and hands correspond to his bulk. His features
coarse and bulky not without beauty, by the proportion and good design, sculptural beauty mask,
miguel-angelesco to decorate a fascia bracket or the center of a poster, missing the mouth garlands
and festoons.

Going into details, that the heirs of Rafael yearned to know, gave them news Kidron tidy the will,
both as Ponte Dona Paca listened with religious care easily assumed. Surrogates were also Mr.
Kidron, D. Sandalio Maturana and Marqués de Guadalerce. In part that the two people there interested,
provided Rafael: a Obdulia and Antonito, sons of his cousin Antonio Zapata, they left the Almoraima
farmhouse, but only in usufruct. The executors will hand over the product of that farm, which
would split into two halves to the heirs of Antonio and Obdulia, the death of them. A Ponte
Dona Francisca and annuity were assigned as many other relatives, income from debt securities, which
constituted a major wealth of the testator.

Hearing these things, Frasquito stroked over the ear is the recessed
strands of her hair, without taking a second of rest.

Dona Francisca, indeed, did not know what was happening: believe dream. In a fit of feverish
delight, stepped into the hall shouting, "Nina, Nina, come and find out! ... Because we are
rich ... I say, we are not poor !...».

Soon came to mind memories of the disappearance of her maid, and returning to the side Kidron
said between sobs: "Forgive me, I do not remember that I lost the companion of my life ...

- I look - repeated the clergyman, and Frasquito, like an echo:

- I look like.

- If he had died - said Dona Francisca - I think the intensity of
my joy would resurrected.

- We'll talk about that woman - said Kidron
-. Before you just found out what you both want. "No need to guard him closely. Even if he escaped,
where could he go? Our men are everywhere."

Frank smiled to himself. He had made a discovery a day or two before that had not escaped his
mind. That afternoon he managed to make certain preparations unobserved. And when night came
he was ready to hazard his own liberty, and his life, if that should prove to be necessary,
in an attempt to rescue Henri. He knew the room in which Henri was confined. It was on the
side of the Hotel de Ville that overlooked the river. No sentries were posted there, and it
was easy for Frank to get to a spot directly underneath Henri's window. The other bank of the
river was well guarded, and that was why no sentries watched the side on which was the town
hall. It was argued, Frank supposed, that anyone escaping must attempt to swim the river and
that when they tried to climb the other bank it would be easy to find them. There Restaurane economic where
you serve good food for little money. It is true that in tips, that there call pour boire,
spends more than necessary, but believe me, gives them a taste to be seen with treated with kindness.
 He used a light
bamboo cane, tipped with soft cloth, so that the sound, audible to anyone in the room, would
not carry more than a few feet. And he tapped out his signal in the Morse code very slowly,
knowing that Henri would hear and understand.

In a few moments there was the sound of the window opening very gently. She was beautiful:
celebrated it as such, his voice sounded like beautiful music. First began to change, and then
sell churros, because he had sense to merchant, but nothing was worth its goodwill, because they
had to catch your account Diego, taught in a few days to get drunk, and worse things. Three
months later, Peter was not known. The decayed, leaving it cigars, hides, and his breath stank.
He spoke as a carreterona, and had a canine coughing hoarseness and pulling back. Sometimes called
the path of Carabanchel, and night stayed to sleep at any inn. Occasionally washed her face a little,
bought scented water, and sprayed the weaknesses, I borrowed a shirt, skirt, scarf, and put on
the door at the home of Weasel, Midi Street Girl. But he had no record for nothing, and no
arrangement lasted more than two days. It lasted only a taste of brandy and when apimplaba, which
was every other day too, did figure in the stream, toreaban and boys. Its cute sleeping on the street
or where you picked up, and more blows had on his face that hair on your head. More cardinals
assisted body is not never met, nor person who in his youth, having no more than twenty-two, although
representing thirty had visited so often the prejudices of the Foundling and America. Almudena
treated her, with success, since it was orphaned, and dragged her so, and gave him three things
a little: advice, charity and a stick. Met him one day his scrofula healing with juice fig
pear, and aligned by the hair to the sun. Propúsole to go with them, paying each half of the
rent of the house, and her commitment to root out vice drinking. Discussed, parliament, God
solemnly to the convention, pledging both their faithful adherence to a sticky plaster and
broken comb picks, and slept that night Pedra in the fourth of Santa Casilda. The first few days
all was harmony, sobriety drinking, but the goat was not long in throwing the mountain, y.
.. devilish female again having fun and giving the guys that make the Order.

"Unable to me with it. B'rracha forever. It's a pain ... pain. I be out of pity she Migo ...».

Seeing that the two women, after poked a couple of inks, mocking the
blind looked and Benin, it was afraid and wanted to retire.

"Dir not you, Amri. Migo be - he said the blind man holding her arm.

- I fear that arming these indinas anger ... Come here now. "
Aproximáronse the such, and the Benina could see and examine your
face like the Peter, a bleak beauty and bouncing. And yet at the last minute
they might be caught.

At last there could be no doubt that the sun was up, and that there was full daylight. And
then, suddenly, there was a sharp tug at the boat. With a groan Frank started up, and Henri too.

And what they saw was an amazed French peasant, and all around the smiling country below Amiens,
which was far behind!

CHAPTER XXI

VIVE LA FRANCE!

The peasant listened in amazement to the story that they told him. But he was a real Frenchman,
out of the army because of his age.

"Come with me," he said. "You shall have the best there is in my house--it is not much! Dry
clothes, too. If you will wear a peasant's blouse, there are the clothes my Jean left when
he went to the war!"

"We have clothes in the boat," said Frank. "Until we knew we were safe we dared not change
into them. But your food will be more than welcome!"

So it proved, indeed. It was rough fare, but it seemed to both the best that they had ever
tasted. Alone had no choice but to wait, because that pair
of eels lacked authority to resolve the problem that is so desperately uneasy. Talking, talking,
business to sleep (the year was very bad, and every night less people slept, and the monkeys
often), It occurred to ask Frasquito Benina Ponte; Prieto and he answered that the night before
had been seen in the case of not admitting because it was the debtor and with seven beds,
and did not give anything to own.

"Poor gentleman! - Said Benina -; be sleeping in the open ... It's
a pain ... at his age ... Improving the present, is older than the
Cuesta de la Vega.

"

He said the manager not knowing where to go Frasquito Don had managed to be housed at the home
of Weasel, Midi Street Girl, two steps away. For more signs, had ran the news that he was sick.
Upon hearing this, suddenly olvidósele Benin main purpose for this site to take her, and thought
only to find out what had been the homeless Frasquito. Had time to leap to the home of Weasel,
and re- point to return to his home of Dona Bernarda. Said and done. A moment later came diligent
in the hypocritical old tabernuca that faces the public in the establishment above, and the first
thing he saw there was the picture of Luquitas abominable, the husband of Obdulia, with other
lost and two or three ragged women, playing cards in a dirty circular coffee table, between glasses
of Carignan and Camus. At the time of going to Benin, had just a game, and before you put your
other hand, the son of Doña Paca shot foul on the table cards, dirt racing in the hands of
the players stood up unsteadily, and language and fine half-confused, which usually employ
drunk, offered the maid of his mother a glass of wine. "Stand back, sir, I've drunk ... We thank ...»--
said the old woman, rejecting the cup.

But there was no need, for the officer who sat in the car was Colonel Menier himself, and at
the sight of them he laughed aloud.

"Ah, my brave ones!" he cried. "So you are here! Ride with me! Did the Germans drive you from
Amiens? I shall drive you back!"

They obeyed that order with delight. They sprang to their places in the car.

"Now tell me everything!" said Colonel Menier. "How it is that you left Amiens and how you
came here?"

He leaned over first, however, and spoke to his driver, and the car shot forward, leaving the
troops far behind.

And then they began the story, each telling the part of it that he knew best. At the story
of how the German officer had recognized Henri and caused his arrest, he clenched his hand angrily.

"They make war even on boys!" he said, bitterly. "A brave enemy recognizes the heroism of his
foes. If I had been in that man's place I should have forgotten my own defeat and praised those
who had caused it!" One and one evoked memories
of land they were born Andalusian, raising families, people and events; you talk and talk, Doña
Francisca walked out the registration of his dream, but was saved well to tell the citizen.
"Tell me, Ponte: What has become of D. Pedro Jose Garcia of the Antrines?. " After a painful
espurgo in obscure folders of your memory, said Vial that D. Peter had died the year of the Revolution.

"Go,
go, and I thought he was still alive.

Do you know who inherited their property?

- As his son Rafael, who has not wanted to marry. And goes for old.

It could be that will remember us, your children from you and me, as it has closer relatives.

-
Ay! do not doubt you, will remember ...-- Doña Paca said with great animation in his eyes and the
word -.

If not agreed, would be a pig ... What I said D. Morquecho Francisco
and D. José María Porcell ...

- When?

- Makes ... I do not know
how long.

Truth who have gone to a better life. But I think I am watching ... Were surrogates of Antrines
Garcia, is not it?

- Yes, ma'am. I also tried them a lot.

They were friends of my house and I have very present them in my
memory ... I think I am seeing with his old cut black coat ...

-
So, so.

- Its sole neckties, and those hats that looked like the
tower of Santa Maria ...».

Continued the conversation with this vague fluctuation between reality and imagination, and
therefore Benina up the street, down the street, and with a clear mind, calm the spirit by possession
of a rate not less than three dollars and a half, I thought that all of tracamundana Almudena
spell was simply deceived fools. More likely to see success in the lottery, that is, more than
say, a work of blind chance, because who says that does not go through the air, an angel or a
demon invisible takes out the big ball, knowing beforehand who owns
the number? General Joffre took the cross from his own breast and pinned it to Frank's.
Then he turned to another officer, and received another cross from him. 

Had sufficed his brief appearances in Vienna, home of an aunt, to be carried the people behind
it and proclaim it were hauptcomtesse or capital Condesa or princess and captain of the countess
all.

