Such results clearly indicate our inability to make accurate predictions even though pregnancy
is normal in every way. Whenever patients pass their expected date uneventfully, if they will
bear in mind that the fault lies with the method of prediction and not with the pregnancy,
they will often be saved anxiety. Frequently such discrepancies are attributable to a false
assumption, for our rule always assumes that the conception took place immediately after a
menstrual period. While this is generally true, the number of cases in which it occurs just
before the period to be missed is by no means inconsiderable, and in these we should not expect
pregnancy to end until two or three weeks after the day predicted by the rule.

Occasionally patients know the precise day upon which conception took place, and prefer to
estimate the day of confinement from that rather than from the beginning of the last menstruation.
They may do so by counting back thirteen weeks from the day of conception; but this method
also is subject to error for, as we have noted, the duration of pregnancy reckoned in this
more exact manner is not constant. Such a calculation rarely offers any advantage over that
made from the menstrual record.

Another method of estimating the date of confinement is based upon the assumption that fetal
movements are first perceived by the mother toward the eighteenth week of pregnancy; and in
consequence twenty- two weeks generally elapse between quickening and the day of delivery.
Although such a calculation is far from certain in its prediction, there are instances in which
no other calculation can be made. A nursing mother, for example, may become pregnant before
menstruation has been reestablished. Under these circumstances, obviously, the date of confinement
cannot be estimated in the ordinary way, and it is then especially important to know the first
day on which the fetal movements were felt. Furthermore, it is helpful to note this date in
every case, since it serves, if for nothing more, to confirm the prediction made from the menstrual
record. Besides the two methods just described, which are alike in that they require the patient
herself to make the necessary observations, there is a third method of estimating how far pregnancy
has advanced, by which the physician is enabled to draw his own conclusions. This method is
based upon the fact that the womb enlarges from month to month during pregnancy at a constant
rate. Up to the end of the third lunar month it cannot be felt through the abdominal wall;
but in the course of the fourth month, on account of its size, it must rise into the abdominal
cavity. At the beginning of the sixth month the top of the womb is at the level of the navel,
and at the ninth reaches the ribs. The diaphragm then prevents the womb from going higher;
and two or three weeks before the end of pregnancy it drops several inches, causing a change
in the figure which is noticeable to the patient, since her skirts hang somewhat lower than
before. From this time on she is more comfortable, because the lungs are not crowded, and there
is less interference with breathing.

These alterations in the position of the womb indicate very satisfactorily the month to which
pregnancy has advanced, but not the week and much less the day. They do not afford a more accurate
means of predicting the date of confinement than does quickening. The evidence gained from
the position of the womb, like that afforded by the beginning of quickening, generally confirms
the prediction made from the menstrual history; it serves only occasionally to correct it.

PROLONGED PREGNANCY.--Since birth does not occur in many cases until the predicted date has
been passed, it will be helpful even at the cost of repetition to sum up what we know in explanation
of such unfulfilled predictions. They are to be explained sometimes by uncertainty as to the
beginning of pregnancy, as for example by the supposition that conception took place shortly
after the last menstrual period, whereas it actually occurred two or three weeks later. In
a few instances, however, errors of observation or of calculation will not account for false
predictions.

It is generally admitted that second pregnancies average somewhat longer than first pregnancies;
one series of statistics indicates that the duration increases slightly with each pregnancy
up to the ninth and decreases after that. Pregnancy is protracted more frequently in healthy
women than in those who are not, and again more frequently in those who are inactive than in
those who work. With twins, contrary to the popular belief, pregnancy is apt to end before,
not after, the expected date. The sex of the child, in all probability, has no influence upon
the duration of pregnancy.

As we might expect, individuality is also a factor in this problem. Thus, the period of gestation
with some women is regularly longer, with others habitually shorter than the accepted average.
Until experience has demonstrated their existence, generally, such peculiarities are overlooked.
But occasionally they may be detected from knowledge of the interval between the menstrual
periods; an unusually long interval between them, for example, would lead us to anticipate
a protracted pregnancy.

Any delay after the expected date of birth has arrived taxes the patience of the prospective
mother. The fact, however, that more than 280 days have passed since the last menstruation,
does not necessarily mean that a patient has gone "over time." Such a question can be decided
solely from the weight and length of the child. Judged in this way, comprehensive statistics
indicate that once in several hundred cases pregnancy may be fairly called prolonged. Even
in these rare instances an examination about the time of the predicted date makes it clear
whether pregnancy should be artificially ended or be allowed to proceed to its natural conclusion.

CHAPTER II

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE OVUM

The Germinal Cells--Fertilization--The First Steps in Development-- The Reaction of the Uterus--The
Amniotic Fluid--The Placenta--The Umbilical Cord.

Pregnancy, besides changing the external form of the body, causes sensations--as for example
those due to fetal movements--which are so distinctive that they cannot escape notice. These
obvious evidences of approaching motherhood naturally lead thoughtful women to wonder about
the hidden mechanism of development, a mechanism which, of itself, causes no sensation whatever.
It is for this reason, perhaps, that a prospective mother's imagination is so apt to be unusually
active, often picturing absurd conditions as responsible for one symptom or another. Those
who give free play to the imagination in regard to the formation and progress of the embryo
are pretty certain to arrive at erroneous if not grotesque conclusions; for example, they may
attribute a protracted pregnancy to the child's having grown fast to the mother, a situation
that cannot arise.

Of course it is not essential that a prospective mother should understand what is happening
within the womb. And upon those who prefer to be ignorant of the mechanism of development I
would not urge another point of view, for not ignorance but the unchallenged acceptance of
"half-truths" and of totally incorrect explanations is the chief source of harm. On the other
hand, my own experience has taught me that women who wish to know about development should
be told the truth. In accord with this is the fact that I never have more satisfactory patients
than those who have previously been trained nurses and who, in preparing for that profession,
received instruction concerning the reproductive function of human beings.

A description of development, in order to be perfectly clear, must begin with a word about
the fundamental structure of the adult body. Everyone knows that the various parts of the body
perform different functions; but not everyone, perhaps, realizes that, in spite of their different
functions, all the organs of the body are composed of similar structural units, known as cells.
Of course, cells are definitely arranged according to the use for which the tissue that they
chance to compose may be designed; they have, moreover, distinctive individual peculiarities
which can be easily recognized under the microscope; but the essential features of the cells
remain the same, wherever they may be located. That is to say, each cell is a minute portion
of living matter, or protoplasm, separated from its neighbors by a partition, the cell-membrane;
each has its own seat of government, the nucleus, located near its center; and each, to all
intents and purposes, leads an individual existence.

THE GERMINAL CELLS.--Many of the cells in the human body are able to produce others of their
kind. This they do virtually by growing and splitting in half; cell-division, as this splitting
is called, really represents reproduction reduced to the simplest terms. Most cells can do
no more than produce units like themselves. The bodies of women contain, however, a type of
cell which possesses a far more wonderful power. Provided the requisite conditions for such
development are met, these cells are capable of developing into human beings. Each of these
remarkable units is called an Ovum, or egg-cell, and represents one variety of the germinal
cells. But the other variety, represented by the Spermatozoon and developed only in the male
sex, is also required for the production of a human being.

Every ovum originates in the ovaries. These are organs peculiar to women, having the size and
shape of large almonds, and placed in the lower part of the abdominal cavity. Though the ovaries
are two in number, one alone is sufficient for every requirement of health. It has been estimated
that the ovaries together contain at the time of birth about 40,000 ova, distributed equally
between them. Since less than 500 ova are required to insure regularity in the menstrual function,
it is clear that, if the surgeon finds it necessary to remove one of the ovaries, the other
will provide abundantly for menstruation and for the bearing of children. Although every ovum
that will be produced as long as a woman lives has already sprung into existence by the time
she is born, not a single one ripens for from twelve to fifteen years. The ripening process
begins about the time of puberty, and, unless suspended through the occurrence of pregnancy,
continues until the menopause. During this period, which is also characterized by the periodical
appearance of menstruation, one ovum ripens each month; sometimes, though rarely, several ripen
at once, and this tendency is partly responsible for twins.

The human ovum is a tiny structure, measuring about 1/125 of an inch in diameter. With the
naked eye it can barely be seen; magnified by the microscope it appears as a little round bag
made of a transparent membrane. Briefly described, the ovum is a single cell. That is, it belongs
to the simplest class of anatomical structures, and is one of the millions upon millions of
units that make up the body. It contains a nucleus surrounded by nutritive material, the yolk.
Yet the quantity of yolk is exceedingly small. In this particular the human ovum differs notably
from the egg of birds, as it does also in that it lacks a shell. Obviously, a shell would not
only be useless to an embryo developing within the body of its parent, but would shut off the
nourishment, which, since the ovum contains so little, must necessarily be provided by the mother.

When the ovum has ripened, it becomes detached from the ovary, and enters a fleshy tube about
the size of a lead pencil, known as the oviduct. There are two of these tubes, one running
from the neighborhood of each ovary; both enter the uterus, but on opposite sides. The ovum
travels down the tube which corresponds to the ovary where it originated. The journey is fraught
with momentous consequences, for it is during this passage through the oviduct that the fate
of the ovum is determined. If it is to develop into a living creature, a great many conditions
must sooner or later be fulfilled; but there is one which must be promptly satisfied. Shortly
after leaving the ovary the ovum must receive the stimulus to live and grow; otherwise it will
quickly wither and die. This vital stimulus can be imparted only by the spermatozoon.

The male germinal cell is like the female cell in the possession of a nucleus; in other respects
it is very different. Longer but much narrower than the ovum, the tiny arrow-shaped spermatozoon
is particularly distinguished by its active motility, for it has a tail that propels it. The
human male cell must travel some distance to reach the point where it can meet a ripe and vigorous
ovum; and since the journey is not without danger to its life, Nature has provided that exceedingly
large numbers of the male cells shall be deposited in the vagina at the time of the marital
relation. In this way, it is made sure that some of them will travel up through the uterus
and oviducts, arriving in the neighborhood of the ovaries.

FERTILIZATION.--Convincing observations upon the lower forms of life, especially upon fishes,
have shown that when the germinal cells come near to each other, the ovum attracts the spermatozoon.
The power of attraction which the ovum exerts may be likened, most simply, to the influence
of a magnet upon iron-filings. While there has been no opportunity to observe such attraction
between the parent cells of human beings, its existence is not open to doubt. And it is practically
certain that these cells meet in the oviduct, even in that portion of it which receives the
ovum just as it leaves the ovary. Thither a number of the male cells have traveled by their
own activity; several come in contact with the ovum and one, but only one, actually enters
it. Almost at the moment when they touch, the two cells unite so intimately that all trace
of the spermatozoon is lost. Fertilization of the ovum, as this event is scientifically termed,
has as its main purpose the uniting of the nucleus of a male germinal cell with the nucleus
of the female germinal cell. This detail has been carefully studied; we know that the nuclei
quickly blend into one, and that the particles of living matter contributed by the male animate
the female cell with a new and wonderful activity.

In our every-day way of speaking, fertilization means conception; it is the instant in which
a living being begins its existence. There is no longer the slightest excuse for confusion
regarding the period at which the life of the unborn child begins. Before the significance
of fertilization was understood, it was perhaps not unreasonable to believe that life began
with quickening or about the time the fetal heart-sounds could be heard. But now we must acknowledge
that both these ideas were incorrect. The animation of the ovum at the moment of conception
marks the beginning of growth and development which constitutes its right to be considered
as a human being.

Individuality, hereditary traits, sex--all these, we may be sure--are unalterably determined
from the moment of conception. The germinal cell forms the total contribution of the male parent
to pregnancy; therefore no other opportunity for him to influence his progeny presents itself,
and the substance which enters the ovum at the time of fertilization must be the basis of inheritance
from the father. It is equally true, as we shall see in the next chapter, that the nucleus
of the ovum and the nucleus alone transmits maternal qualities. The material which conveys
inheritable characters can be seen and has been identified in both germinal cells; from each
of them the fertilized ovum derives equal amounts. As the parental nuclei unite, the material
which they contain intermingles and establishes a new being; to attain full development, it
requires nothing further from the father, and nothing save nourishment from the mother.

THE FIRST STEPS IN DEVELOPMENT.--Although the identity of the spermatozoon is lost at the moment
of fertilization, its influence just then begins to be asserted. In the fertilized ovum the
dawn of development is shown at first by unusual activity within and later by alterations upon
the surface. Before very long the circumference of the cell becomes indented as if a knife
had been drawn around it, and shortly two cells appear in place of one. These two cells in
turn divide, yielding four cells which grow and divide into eight. In this manner division
follows division until a multitude of cells have sprung into existence, all of which cling
together in the shape of a ball. Development always proceeds in the same orderly way; evidently
it is governed by fixed laws which decree that the mass shall remain for a while in the form
of a ball, though the ball, at first solid, soon becomes hollow.

While these changes are taking place the growing ovum is carried down the oviduct a distance
of four to six inches and finally comes to rest in the uterus, where it is to dwell during
the months necessary to its complete development. The time consumed by this journey cannot
be measured accurately; it may be as short as a few hours or as long as several days, but in
all probability it is never longer than a week. Although the element of time is uncertain the
method of transmission is well understood. Of its own accord the ovum can move after fertilization
no better than before; it is never capable of moving itself. The active agent of transportation
is the oviduct, which has been fitted for this purpose with millions of short, hair- like structures
that project into its interior. These are closely set upon the inner surface of the oviduct;
their outer ends are free and continually sway to and fro like a wheat field on a windy day;
and by their motion they create a current in the direction in which the ovum should move, namely,
toward the uterus. While passing through the oviduct, the ovum has no attachment whatever to
the mother, yet development is going on all the time. It is thus made perfectly clear that
development is not directed by the parent. This independence of the parent, though it continues
to be one of the characteristic features of the development of the ovum, shortly becomes less
evident, for communication is set up between the mother and the ovum as soon as it reaches
the uterus. Unless we were warned, we might easily misinterpret the significance of this attachment
to the parent. It does not permit the mother, for instance, to influence the mind or character
which the child will have. The purpose of the attachment is twofold, namely, to anchor the
ovum, and to arrange channels by which, on the one hand, nutriment may reach the embryo, and,
on the other, its waste products may return to the mother. The mother may influence the nutrition
of the fetus; but she cannot determine the kind of brain or liver her child will have; neither
for that matter can she alter the development of any portion of the embryo.

After its entrance into the cavity of the uterus prepared to receive and protect it, the mass
of cells sinks into the soft, velvety lining of the organ. Here it is entirely surrounded by
tissue which belongs to the mother. But just before implantation takes place the architecture
of the ovum is modified in such a way as to indicate the trend of its subsequent development.
We left it, a hollow ball passing down the oviduct; had we examined the sphere more closely
we should have found its wall composed of a single layer of cells. At one spot, however, the
wall soon thickens. The thickening is due to a specialized group of cells which gradually grows
toward the hollow center of the ball. A little later, if we study the structure as a whole,
we find it a small, distended sac, from the inner surface of which hangs a tiny clump of tissue.
The clump of cells within and the inclosing sac as well are both requisite to the ultimate
object of pregnancy; yet they fulfill very different purposes. The clump within will mold itself
into the embryo; the inclosing sac will make possible the continued existence and growth of
the embryo by securing and conveying to it nourishment according to its needs. These two structures,
which from now on constitute the ovum, can best be considered separately and in the order of
their development. We shall therefore first study the sac and in the next chapter the embryo.

For a time after this sac, or ball, as you may choose to think of it, becomes implanted in
the uterus, every part of its wall shares in the responsibility of procuring nourishment for
the embryo. On this account the wall, or capsule, is for several weeks the most conspicuous
part of the ovum. Its position is naturally advantageous, for, since it forms the outermost
region of the structure and comes into immediate contact with the tissues of the mother, it
has the first opportunity to seize and appropriate nutriment. Consequently, while there is
still relatively little development in the embryo, the capsule of the ovum gives evidence of
rapid extension; the wall becomes thicker, and the circumference of the sac increases. The
significant thing about this growth, however, is the fact that it does not progress evenly.
At some points cell-division is more active than at others, with the result that the surface
of the ovum speedily loses its smooth, regular outline. Projections from the capsule appear;
they increase in number and in length; and by the end of four weeks the ovum, as yet less than
an inch in diameter, resembles a miniature chestnut-burr. To make the comparison more accurate,
we must imagine such a burr covered with limp threads instead of rigid spines.

These projections, the so-called Villi, push their way into the mucous membrane of the uterus
and serve a two-fold purpose. One of their functions is to fix the ovum in its new abode; and,
though the attachment is not at first very secure, it becomes stronger in the course of time
and is capable of withstanding whatever tendency the activity of daily life may have to loosen
it. The other, and equally important, task of the villi, the majority of which dip into the
mother's blood, is to transmit substances to and from the embryo.

We have traced thus far the earliest steps in the development of the ovum. One portion, we
observed, was promptly set apart for the construction of the future child; this favored portion
became inclosed by all the rest of the ovum, which has a more or less spherical form and is
technically called the fetal sac. The first duty of the sac is to take root in the womb, and
the second, no less vital, is to draw nourishment from the mother. But neither of these functions
can be performed without the participation of the uterine mucous membrane, the soil, as it
were, in which the ovum is planted. We must now learn how the maternal tissues assume the responsibility
placed upon them.

