These latter did not disapprove of the colonel's resolution, and he accompanied them to the
Tuileries on the day of the solemn reception of all the deputations of the Empire.  All the
halls of the Tuileries were packed with a crowd in richly embroidered coats and brilliant uniforms.
The military household of the Emperor, his civil household, the generals present at Paris,
the diplomatic corps, ministers and chiefs of the different administrations, the deputies of
the departments with their prefects, and mayors decorated with tricolored scarfs, were all
assembled in numerous groups, and conversed in a low tone while awaiting the arrival of his
Majesty.

In one of these groups was seen a tall officer dressed in a very simple uniform, cut in the
fashion of several years past.  He wore neither on his collar, nor even on his breast the decoration
which no officer of his grade then lacked.  This was Colonel Delelee.  The president of the
deputation of which he was a member appeared embarrassed and almost distressed.  Of the former
comrades of the colonel, very few dared to recognize him, and the boldest gave him a distant
nod which expressed at the same time anxiety and pity, while the more prudent did not even
glance at him.

As for him, he remained unconcerned and resolute.

At last the folding doors were opened, and an usher cried "The Emperor, gentlemen."

The groups separated, and a line was formed, the colonel placing himself in the first rank.

His Majesty commenced his tour of the room, welcoming the president of each delegation with
a few flattering words.  Arrived before the delegation from Doubs, the Emperor, having addressed
a few words to the brave marshal who was president, was about to pass on to the next, when
his eyes fell upon an officer he had not yet seen.  He stopped in surprise, and addressed to
the deputy his familiar inquiry, "Who are you?"

"Sire, I am Colonel Delelee, former aide-de-camp of General Moreau."

These words were pronounced in a firm voice, which resounded in the midst of the profound silence
which the presence of the sovereign imposed.

The Emperor stepped back, and fastened both eyes on the colonel.  The latter showed no emotion,
but bowed slightly.

Marshal Moncey was pale as death.

The Emperor spoke.  "What do you come to ask here?"

"That which I have asked for many years, Sire: that your Majesty will deign to tell me wherein
I have been in fault, or restore to me my rank."

Among those near enough to hear these questions and replies, few could breathe freely.  At
last a smile half opened the firmly closed lips of the Emperor; he placed his finger on his
mouth, and, approaching the colonel, said to him in a softened and almost friendly tone, "You
have reason to complain a little of that, but let us say no more about it," and continued his
round.  He had gone ten steps from the group formed by the deputies of Bescancon, when he came
back, and, stopping before the colonel, said, "Monsieur Minister of War, take the name of this
officer, and be sure to remind me of him.  He is tired of doing nothing, and we will give him
occupation."

As soon as the audience was over, the struggle was, who should be most attentive to the colonel.
He was surrounded, congratulated, embraced, and pulled about.  Each of his old comrades wished
to carry him off, and his hands were not enough to grasp all those extended to him.  General
Savary, who that very evening had added to the fright of Marshal Moncey, by being astonished
that any one could have the audacity to brave the Emperor, extended his arm over the shoulders
of those who pressed around the colonel, and shaking his hand in the most cordial manner possible,
"Delelee," cried he, "do not forget that I expect you to-morrow to breakfast."

Two days after this scene at court, Colonel Delelee received his appointment as chief of staff
of the army of Portugal, commanded by the Duke d'Abrantes.  His preparations were soon made;
and just before setting out he had a last interview with the Emperor, who said to him, "Colonel,
I know that it is useless to urge you to make up for lost time. In a little while I hope we
shall both be satisfied with each other."

On coming out from this last audience, the brave Delelee said there was nothing wanting to
make him happy except a good opportunity to have himself cut to pieces for a man who knew so
well how to close the wounds of a long disgrace.  Such was the sway that his Majesty exercised
over the minds of men.

The colonel had soon crossed the Pyrenees, passed through Spain, and been received by Junot
with open arms.  The army of Portugal had suffered much in the two years during which it had
struggled against both the population and the English with unequal forces.  Food was secured
with difficulty, and the soldiers were badly clothed, and half-shod.  The new chief of staff
did all that was possible to remedy this disorder; and the soldiers had just begun to feel
the good effects of his presence, when he fell sick from overwork and fatigue, and died before
being able, according to the Emperor's expression, to "make up for lost time."

I have said elsewhere that upon each conspiracy against the life of the First Consul all the
members of his household were at once subjected to a strict surveillance; their smallest actions
were watched; they were followed outside the chateau; their conduct was reported even to the
smallest details.  At the time the conspiracy of Pichegru was discovered, there was only a
single guardian of the portfolio, by the name of Landoire; and his position was very trying,
for he must always be present in a little dark corridor upon which the door of the cabinet
opened, and he took his meals on the run, and half-dressed.  Happily for Landoire, they gave
him an assistant; and this was the occasion of it.

Angel, one of the doorkeepers of the palace, was ordered by the First Consul to place himself
at the barrier of Bonshommes during the trial of Pichegru, to recognize and watch the people
of the household who came and went in the transaction of their business, no one being allowed
to leave Paris without permission.  Augel's reports having pleased the First Consul, he sent
for him, was satisfied with his replies and intelligence, and appointed him assistant to Landoire
in the custody of the portfolio. Thus the task of the latter became lighter by half.  In 1812
Angel was in the campaign of Russia, and died on the return, when within a few leagues of Paris,
in consequence of the fatigue and privations which we shared with the army.

However, it was not only those attached to the service of the First Consul, or the chateau,
who were subject to this surveillance.

When Napoleon became Emperor, the custodians of all the imperial palaces were furnished with
a register upon which all persons from outside, and all strangers who came to visit any one
in the palace were obliged to inscribe their names, with that of the persons whom they came
to see. Every evening this register was carried to the grand marshal of the palace, and in
his absence to the governor, and the Emperor often consulted it.  He once found there a certain
name which, as a husband, he had his reasons, and perhaps good ones, to suspect.  His Majesty
had previously ordered the exclusion of this person; and finding this unlucky name again upon
the custodian's register, he was angry beyond measure, believing that they had dared on both
sides to disobey his orders. Investigation was immediately made; and it was fortunately ascertained
that the visitor was a most insignificant person, whose only fault was that of bearing a name
which was justly compromised.

CHAPTER XV.

The year 1804, which was so full of glory for the Emperor, was also the year which brought
him more care and anxiety than all others, except those of 1814 and 1815.  It is not my province
to pass judgment on such grave events, nor to determine what part was taken in them by the
Emperor, or by those who surrounded and counseled him, for it is my object to relate only what
I saw and heard.  On the 21st of March of that year I entered the Emperor's room at an early
hour, and found him awake, leaning on his elbow.  He seemed gloomy and tired; but when I entered
he sat up, passed his hand many times over his forehead, and said to me, "Constant, I have
a headache."  Then, throwing off the covering, he added, "I have slept very badly."  He seemed
extremely preoccupied and absorbed, and his appearance evinced melancholy and suffering to
such a degree that I was surprised and somewhat anxious.  While I was dressing him he did not
utter a word, which never occurred except when something agitated or worried him.  During this
time only Roustan and I were present.  His toilet being completed, just as I was handing him
his snuff-box, handkerchief, and little bonbon box, the door opened suddenly, and the First
Consul's wife entered, in her morning negligee, much agitated, with traces of tears on her
cheeks.  Her sudden appearance astonished, and even alarmed, Roustan and myself; for it was
only an extraordinary circumstance which could have induced Madame Bonaparte to leave her room
in this costume, before taking all necessary precautions to conceal the damage which the want
of the accessories of the toilet did her.  She entered, or rather rushed, into the room, crying,
"The Duke d'Enghien is dead!  Ah, my friend!  what have you done?"  Then she fell sobbing into
the arms of the First Consul, who became pale as death, and said with extraordinary emotion,
"The miserable wretches have been too quick!"  He then left the room, supporting Madame Bonaparte,
who could hardly walk, and was still weeping.  The news of the prince's death spread consternation
in the chateau; and the First Consul remarked this universal grief, but reprimanded no one
for it.  The fact is, the greatest chagrin which this mournful catastrophe caused his servants,
most of whom were attached to him by affection even more than by duty, came from the belief
that it would inevitably tarnish the glory and destroy the peace of mind of their master.

The First Consul probably understood our feelings perfectly; but however that may be, I have
here related all that I myself saw and know of this deplorable event.  I do not pretend to
know what passed in the cabinet meeting, but the emotion of the First Consul appeared to me
sincere and unaffected; and he remained sad and silent for many days, speaking very little
at his toilet, and saying only what was necessary.

During this month and the following I noticed constantly passing, repassing, and holding frequent
interviews with the First Consul, many persons whom I was told were members of the council
of state, tribunes, or senators.  For a long time the army and a great number of citizens,
who idolized the hero of Italy and Egypt, had manifested openly their desire to see him wear
a title worthy of his renown and the greatness of France.  It was well known, also, that he
alone performed all the duties of government, and that his nominal colleagues were really his
subordinates.  It was thought proper, therefore, that he should become supreme head of the
state in name, as he already was in fact.  I have often since his fall heard his Majesty called
an usurper: but the only effect of this on me is to provoke a smile of pity; for if the Emperor
usurped the throne, he had more accomplices than all the tyrants of tragedy and melodrama combined,
for three-fourths of the French people were in the conspiracy.  As is well known, it was on
May 18 that the Empire was proclaimed, and the First Consul (whom I shall henceforward call
the Emperor) received at Saint-Cloud the Senate, led by Consul Cambaceres, who became, a few
hours later, arch-chancellor of the Empire; and it was by him that the Emperor heard himself
for the first time saluted with the title of Sire.  After this audience the Senate went to
present its homage to the Empress Josephine.  The rest of the day was passed in receptions,
presentations, interviews, and congratulations; everybody in the chateau was drunk with joy;
each one felt that he had been suddenly promoted in rank, so they embraced each other, exchanged
compliments, and confided to each other hopes and plans for the future. There was no subaltern
too humble to be inspired with ambition; in a word, the antechamber, saving the difference
of persons, furnished an exact repetition of what passed in the saloon.  Nothing could be more
amusing than the embarrassment of the whole service when it was necessary to reply to his Majesty's
questions.  They would begin with a mistake, then would try again, and do worse, saying ten
times in the same minute, "Sire, general, your Majesty, citizen, First Consul."  The next morning
on entering as usual the First Consul's room, to his customary questions, "What o'clock is
it?  What is the weather?  "I replied, "Sire, seven o'clock; fine weather."  As I approached
his bed, he seized me by the ear, and slapped me on the cheek, calling me "Monsieur le drole,"
which was his favorite expression when especially pleased with me.  His Majesty had kept awake,
and worked late into the night, and I found him serious and preoccupied, but well satisfied.
How different this awakening to that of the 21st of March preceding!  On this day his Majesty
went to hold his first grand levee at the Tuileries, where all the civil and military authorities
were presented to him.  The brothers and sisters of the Emperor were made princes and princesses,
with the exception of Lucien, who had quarreled with his Majesty on the occasion of his marriage
with Madame Jouberton.  Eighteen generals were raised to the dignity of marshals of the empire.
Dating from this day, everything around their Majesties took on the appearance of a court and
royal power. Much has been said of the awkwardness of the first courtiers, not yet accustomed
to the new duties imposed upon them, and to the ceremonials of etiquette; and there was, indeed,
in the beginning some embarrassment experienced by those in the immediate service of the Emperor,
as I have said above; but this lasted only a short while, and the chamberlains and high officials
adapted themselves to the new regime almost as quickly as the valets de chambre.  They had
also as instructors many personages of the old court, who had been struck out of the list of
emigres by the kindness of the Emperor, and now solicited earnestly for themselves and their
wives employment in the new imperial court.

His majesty had no liking for the anniversaries of the Republic; some of which had always seemed
to him odious and cruel, others ridiculous; and I have heard him express his indignation that
they should have dared to make an annual festival of the anniversary of the 21st of January,
and smile with pity at the recollection of what he called the masquerades of the theo-philanthropists,
who, he said, "would have no Jesus Christ, and yet made saints of Fenelon and Las Casas--Catholic
prelates."

Bourrienne, in his Memoirs, says that it was not one of the least singular things in the policy
of Napoleon, that during the first years of his reign he retained the festival of 14th July.
I will observe, as to this, that if his Majesty used this annual solemnity to appear in pomp
in public, on the other hand, he so changed the object of the festival that it would have been
difficult to recognize in it the anniversary of the taking of the Bastile and of the First
Federation.  I do not think that there was one word in allusion to these two events in the
whole ceremony; and to confuse still further the recollections of the Republicans, the Emperor
ordered that the festival should be celebrated on the 15th, because that was Sunday, and thus
there would result no loss of time to the inhabitants of the capital.  Besides, there was no
allusion made to honoring the, captors of the Bastile, this being made simply the occasion
of a grand distribution of the cross of the Legion of Honor.

It was the first occasion on which their Majesties showed themselves to the people in all the
paraphernalia of power.

The cortege crossed the grand alley of the Tuileries on their way to the Hotel des Invalides,
the church of which (changed during the Revolution into a Temple of Mars) had been restored
by the Emperor to the Catholic worship, and was used for the magnificent ceremonies of the
day.  This was also the first time that the Emperor had made use of the privilege of passing
in a carriage through the garden of the Tuileries.  His cortege was superb, that of the Empress
Josephine not less brilliant; and the intoxication of the people reached such a height, that
it was beyond expression.  By order of the Emperor I mingled in the crowd, to learn in what
spirit the populace would take part in the festival; and I heard not a murmur, so great was
the enthusiasm of all classes for his Majesty at that time, whatever may have been said since.
The Emperor and Empress were received at the door of the Hotel des Invalides by the governor
and by Count de Segur, grand-master of ceremonies, and at the entrance of the church by Cardinal
du Belloy at the head of a numerous clergy.  After the mass, de Lacepede, grand chancellor
of the Legion of Honor, delivered a speech, followed by the roll-call of the grand officers
of the Legion, after which the Emperor took his seat, and putting on his hat, repeated in a
firm voice the formula of the oath, at the end of which all the members of the Legion cried,
"Je le jure!" (I swear it); and immediately shouts of "Vive l'Empereur," repeated a thousand
times, were heard in the church and outside.

A singular circumstance added still more to the interest which the ceremony excited.  While
the chevaliers of the new order were passing one by one before the Emperor, who welcomed them,
a man of the people, wearing a roundabout, placed himself on the steps of the throne.  His
Majesty showed some astonishment, and paused an instant, whereupon the man, being interrogated,
showed his warrant.  The Emperor at once and with great cordiality bade him advance, and gave
him the decoration, accompanied by a sharp accolade.  The cortege, on its return, followed
the same route, passing again through the garden of the Tuileries.

On the 18th of July, three days after this ceremony, the Emperor set out from Saint-Cloud for
the camp of Boulogne.  Believing that his Majesty would be willing to dispense with my presence
for a few days, and as it was a number of years since I had seen my family, I felt a natural
desire to meet them again, and to review with my parents the singular circumstances through
which I had passed since I had left them.

I should have experienced, I confess, great joy in talking with them of my present situation
and my hopes; and I felt the need of freely expressing myself, and enjoying the confidences
of domestic privacy, in compensation for the repression and constraint which my position imposed
on me.  Therefore I requested permission to pass eight days at Perueltz. It was readily granted,
and I lost no time in setting out; but my astonishment may be imagined when, the very day after
my arrival, a courier brought me a letter from the Count de Remusat, ordering me to rejoin
the Emperor immediately, adding that his Majesty needed me, and I should have no other thought
than that of returning without delay.  In spite of the disappointment induced by such orders,
I felt flattered nevertheless at having become so necessary to the great man who had deigned
to admit me into his service, and at once bade adieu to my family.  His Majesty had hardly
reached Boulogne, when he set out again immediately on a tour of several days in the departments
of the north. I was at Boulogne before his return, and had organized his Majesty's service
so that he found everything ready on his arrival; but this did not prevent his saying to me
that I had been absent a long time.

While I am on this subject, I will narrate here, although some years in advance, one or two
circumstances which will give the reader a better idea of the rigorous confinement to which
I was subjected.  I had contracted, in consequence of the fatigues of my continual journeyings
in the suite of the Emperor, a disease of the bladder, from which I suffered horribly.  For
a long time I combated the disease with patience and dieting; but at last, the pain having
become entirely unbearable, in 1808 I requested of his Majesty a month's leave of absence in
order to be cured, Dr. Boyer having told me that a month was the shortest time absolutely necessary
for my restoration, and that without it my disease would become incurable.  I went to Saint-Cloud
to visit my wife's family, where Yvan, surgeon of the Emperor, came to see me every day.  Hardly
a week had passed, when he told me that his Majesty thought I ought to be entirely well, and
wished me to resume my duties.  This wish was equivalent to an order; it was thus I understood
it, and returned to the Emperor, who seeing me pale, and suffering excruciatingly, deigned
to say to me many kind things, without, however, mentioning a new leave of absence.  These
two were my only absences for sixteen years; therefore, on my return from Moscow, and during
the campaign of France, my disease having reached its height, I quitted the Emperor at Fontainebleau,
because it was impossible for me, in spite of all my attachment to so kind a master, and all
the gratitude which I felt towards him, to perform my duties longer.  Even after this separation,
which was exceedingly painful to me, a year hardly sufficed to cure me, and then not entirely.
But I shall take occasion farther on to speak of this melancholy event. I now return to the
recital of facts, which prove that I could, with more reason than many others, believe myself
a person of great importance, since my humble services seemed to be indispensable to the master
of Europe, and many frequenters of the Tuileries would have had more difficulty than I in proving
their usefulness.  Is there too much vanity in what I have just said? and would not the chamberlains
have a right to be vexed by it?  I am not concerned with that, so I continue my narrative.
The Emperor was tenacious of old habits; he preferred, as we have already seen, being served
by me in preference to all others; nevertheless, it is my duty to state that his servants were
all full of zeal and devotion, though I had been with him longest, and had never left him.
One day the Emperor asked for tea in the middle of the day.  M. Seneschal was on duty, consequently
made the tea, and presented it to his Majesty, who declared it to be detestable, and had me
summoned.  The Emperor complained to me that they were trying to poison him (this was his expression
when he found a bad taste in anything); so going into the kitchen, I poured out of the same
teapot, a cup, which I prepared and carried to his Majesty, with two silver-gilt spoons as
usual, one to taste the tea in the presence of the Emperor, and the other for him. This time
he said the tea was excellent, and complimented me on it with a kind familiarity which he deigned
at times to use towards his servants. On returning the cup to me, he pulled my ears, and said,
"You must teach them how to make tea; they know nothing about it."  De Bourrienne, whose excellent
Memoirs I have read with the greatest pleasure, says somewhere, that the Emperor in his moments
of good humor pinched the tip of the ears of his familiars.  I myself think that he pinched
the whole ear, often, indeed, both ears at once, and with the hand of a master.  He also says
in these same Memoirs, that the Emperor gave little friendly slaps with two fingers, in which
De Bourrienne is very moderate, for I can bear witness in regard to this matter, that his Majesty,
although his hand was not large, bestowed his favors much more broadly; but this kind of caress,
as well as the former, was given and received as a mark of particular favor, and the recipients
were far from complaining then.  I have heard more than one dignitary say with pride, like
the sergeant in the comedy,--

     "Sir, feel there, the blow upon my cheek is still warm."

In his private apartments the Emperor was almost always cheerful and approachable, conversing
freely with the persons in his service, questioning them about their families, their affairs,
and even as to their pleasures.  His toilet finished, his appearance suddenly changed; he became
grave and thoughtful, and assumed again the bearing of an emperor.  It has been said, that
he often beat the people of his household, which statement is untrue.  I saw him once only
give himself up to a transport of this kind; and certainly the circumstances which caused it,
and the reparation which followed, ought to render it, if not excusable, at least easily understood:
This is the incident, of which I was a witness, and which took place in the suburbs of Vienna,
the day after the death of Marshal Lannes.  The Emperor was profoundly affected, and had not
spoken a word during his toilet.  As soon as he was dressed he asked for his horse; and as
an unlucky chance would have it, Jardin, superintendent of the stables, could not be found
when the horse was saddled, and the groom did not put on him his regular bridle, in consequence
of which his Majesty had no sooner mounted, than the animal plunged, reared, and the rider
fell heavily to the ground.  Jardin arrived just as the Emperor was rising from the ground,
beside himself with anger; and in his first transport of rage, he gave Jardin a blow with his
riding-whip directly across his face.  Jardin withdrew, overwhelmed by such cruel treatment,
so unusual in his Majesty; and: few hours after, Caulaincourt, grand equerry, finding himself
alone with his Majesty, described to him Jardin's grief and mortification.  The Emperor expressed
deep regret for his anger, sent for Jardin, and spoke to him with a kindness which effaced
the remembrance of his ill treatment, and sent him a few days afterward three thousand francs.
I have been told that a similar incident happened to Vigogne, senior, in Egypt.  But although
this may be true, two such instances alone in the entire life of the Emperor, which was passed
amid surroundings so well calculated to make a man, even though naturally most amiable, depart
from his usual character, should not be sufficient to draw down upon Napoleon the odious reproach
of beating cruelly those in his service.

CHAPTER XVI.

In his headquarters at the Pont des Briques the Emperor worked as regularly as in his cabinet
at the Tuileries.  After his rides on horseback, his inspections, his visits, his reviews,
he took his meals in haste, and retired into his cabinet, where he often worked most of the
night, thus leading the same life as at Paris.  In his horseback rides Roustan followed him
everywhere, always taking with him a little silver flask of brandy for the use of his Majesty,
who rarely asked for it.

