Dip pork chops in egg, then into bread crumbs to which has been added salt, pepper, and a very
little sage and sweet marjoram. Some prefer chops simply dredged with flour. Fry about 25 minutes
or until cooked through and nicely browned, but not scorched. 'Tis said, "The frying of chops
in a perfect manner is the test of a good cook."

HOME-MADE SAUSAGE

Nine pounds of fresh pork (lean and fat intermixed as it comes). Cut meat in small pieces,
run through a meat cutter. Sprinkle over the finely chopped meat 3 tablespoonfuls salt, 2 tablespoonfuls
of black pepper, 4 tablespoonfuls of powdered sage if bought at a chemist's. Aunt Sarah used
but three tablespoonfuls of her own home-grown sage, as the flavor was much stronger than dried
sage. Some folks add 2 tablespoonfuls of summer savory, but Aunt Sarah did not care for the
flavor. Cloves, mace and nutmeg may also be added if one likes highly-spiced food. This is
a matter of taste. A good plan is to season the small pieces of meat before chopping, as this
distributes the seasoning through the sausage. Fill well cleaned casings, with the finely chopped
meat. Or form sausage into small pats, fry brown on both sides and serve with home-made buckwheat
cakes.

AUNT SARAH'S METHOD OF KEEPING SAUSAGE

To keep sausage one year, take sausage which has been put in casings (skins in long links)
and cook until heated through in a fry pan half filled with hot water. Take sausage from the
water, cut in 4-inch length pieces (stick sausage with prongs of a fork, to prevent skins bursting)
and fry brown on both sides, as if preparing it for the table. Place, while hot in quart jars,
fill jars as compactly as possible, then pour the hot fat remaining in pan over top. Seal air-tight
and it will keep well one year if jars are perfectly air-tight.

SOUSE

Two pig's feet, weighing together about 1-1/2 pounds. After thoroughly cleansing with a vegetable
brush, place in a stewpan and cover with cold water. Allow water to come to a boil then move
stew-pan to place on range where contents will cook slowly for a number of hours, or until
the meat is loosened from the bones, then strain liquid, which should measure a scant three
cups. (If a lesser quantity of liquid, add hot water until you have the required amount.) Add
also 3 tablespoonfuls of sharp cider vinegar, about 3/4 teaspoonful of salt and a dust of black
pepper. 

The popularity of the park continued throughout the Stuart period. Charles II. after the Restoration
employed a Frenchman, Le Nôtre, to lay out the grounds, and under his advice the canal was
formed from the chain of pools that spread across the low-lying ground, and also a decoy,
where ducks and wildfowl resorted. Rosamund's Pond, an oblong pool, lay at the south-west end
of the canal. Of the origin of this name there is no record, though Rosamund's land is mentioned
as early as 1531.

A new Mall was laid out soon after the Restoration, and preserved
with great care.

Powdered cockleshells were sprinkled over the earth to keep it firm. As the game of pall-mall
went out of fashion the Mall became a promenade, and was the resort of the Court. A pheasant-walk
was also formed where Marlborough House now stands. There are two ancient views of the park
extant, in one of which the heads of Cromwell, Ireton and Bradshaw stuck upon poles at the
end of Westminster Hall are visible, and in the other, a figure walking in the foreground is
supposed to be Charles II. himself. The park was not opened to the public at this time, but
those whose houses bordered it appear to have been allowed free entrance. Milton, the poet,
certainly strolled here from his house in Petty France.

Charles II. himself frequently used it, and kept his pet animals here, and the lords and ladies
of his time made it their fashionable rendezvous. The park is mentioned constantly by Pepys
and Evelyn. A couple of oaks planted by Charles from acorns brought from Boscobel survived until
1833, when they were blown down.

The origin of the name of Birdcage Walk has been disputed. It has been derived from "boccage,"
meaning avenue; another account says it was from the bird-cages of the King's aviary, which were
hung in the trees. This seems more probable.

For many reigns St. James's Park continued to be a fashionable place
of resort.

In 1770 Rosamund's Pond was filled up, and the moat round Duck Island was filled in. In 1779
a gentleman was killed in a duel in the park.

In 1827-29 the park was finally laid out and the canal converted into a piece of ornamental
water under the superintendence of Nash. In 1857 the lake was cleared out to a uniform depth of
four feet and the present bridge erected, and the park became something like what we see at the
present time. The vicinity of Marlborough House and Buckingham Palace
still give it a certain distinction, but it cannot be called in any
sense fashionable, as it was in the later Stuart times. And in the
midst of the park we must take leave of our present district, having
rambled within its borders east and west, north and south, and having
met in the process the ghosts of kings and queens, of statesmen and
authors, of men of the Court and men of the Church, those who have
made history in the past and laid the foundations for the glory of
the future. I think fowls should be rinsed thoroughly inside and outside
with cold water (many good cooks to the contrary). Wipe the inside of the fowl perfectly dry
with a clean cloth, and it is ready for the "filling." Separate the liver and heart from entrails
and cut open the piece containing the gizzard; wash the outer part, and put the giblets on
to cook with a little hot water; if wanted to use with the filling. If the fowl is wanted to
cook or steam the day following, do not cut in pieces and let stand in water over night, as
I have known some quite good cooks to do, as that draws the flavor from the meat and makes
it tasteless. If the giblets are not to be cooked and added to dressing, place them inside
the fowl, tie feet together, and hang up in a cool place until wanted. When serving a turkey
dinner with its accompaniments one finds so many things to be attended to in the morning, especially
if the fowl is cooked on a Sunday. It will be found a great help to the cook to have the turkey
or chicken stuffed with bread filling the day before it is to be roasted, ready to pop in the
oven in the morning.

BREAD FILLING AS AUNT SARAH PREPARED IT

Chop the cold, cooked liver, heart and gizzard into tiny dice; add this to a bowl containing
one quart of crumbled stale bread, seasoned with 1 teaspoonful of salt, 1/4 teaspoonful pepper,
1/2 of a small, finely-minced onion, 1/4 teaspoonful sweet marjoram and a teaspoonful of chopped
parsley. Stir into the crumbs 3 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, moisten all with one egg beaten
with 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. Sir all together lightly with a fork. Fill the body of the chicken,
put a couple of spoonfuls of this dressing into the space from which the craw was taken, tie
the neck with a cord, sew up the fowl with a darning needle and cord, after filling it. (Always
keep a pair of scissors hanging from a nail conveniently near the sink in your kitchen, as
it saves many steps.) The secret of good filling is not to have it too moist, and to put the
filling into the fowl very lightly; on no account press it down when placing it in the fowl,
as that will cause the best of filling to be heavy and sodden. Rather put less in, and fill
a small cheese cloth bag with what remains, and a short time before the fowl has finished roasting,
lay the bag containing the dressing on top of fowl until heated through, then turn out on one
side of platter and serve with the fowl. Instead of the chopped giblets, add 2 dozen oysters
to the dressing, or a few chestnuts boiled tender, mashed and seasoned with butter, pepper
and salt and added to the crumbled bread. This makes a pleasant change. Do not use quite as
many crumbs if chestnuts or oysters are added. Place fowl in covered roasting pan, put a couple
of pieces of thinly-sliced bacon on the breast of fowl, put two cups of hot water in the pan
and set in a very hot oven for the first half hour, then reduce the heat and baste frequently.
An ordinary eight-pound turkey takes from two to three hours to roast; a chicken takes about
twenty minutes to the pound.

When the fowl has been sufficiently roasted, remove from pan to a hot platter. Pour off some
of the fat in the pan and add a small quantity of milk to the broth remaining. Thicken with
flour, for gravy, season with salt and pepper and sprinkle one teaspoonful chopped parsley
over gravy after being poured into the gravy boat ready to serve. The yolk of one egg added
makes a richer gravy to serve with chicken.

FRIED CHICKEN WITH CREAM GRAVY

Cut one small spring chicken in pieces, dip each piece in a batter composed of 1 beaten egg,
1 cup of milk, a pinch of salt, 1/2 teaspoonful of baking powder, sifted with flour enough
to form a batter. Dip the pieces of chicken in this batter, one at a time, and fry slowly in
a pan containing a couple tablespoonfuls of hot butter and lard, until a golden brown. Place
the fried chicken on a platter.

Make a gravy by adding to the fat remaining in the pan--1 cup of milk, 1 tablespoonful of corn
starch. Allow this to brown and thicken. Then pour the gravy over the chicken and serve garnished
with parsley or watercress.

STEWED OR STEAMED CHICKEN

Cut a nicely cleaned chicken into nine pieces. (Do not separate the meat from the breast-bone
until it has been cooked.) Put in a cook pot and partly cover with boiling water. Add one small
onion and a sprig of parsley, and let simmer about 1-1/2 hours, or until tender. If an old
fowl it will take about one hour longer. Add salt and pepper. Strain the broth, if very fat,
remove a part from broth. After separating the white meat from the breast-bone, put all the
meat on a platter. Add 1/4 cup of sweet milk to the strained broth, thicken with a couple tablespoonfuls
of flour, mixed smooth with a little cold water. Let come to a boil, and add one teaspoonful
of chopped parsley. Pour the chicken gravy over the platter containing the meat, or serve it
in a separate bowl. Or you may quickly brown the pieces of stewed chicken which have been sprinkled
with flour in a pan containing a little sweet drippings or butter. Should the chicken not be
a very fat one, add yolk of one egg to the gravy.

Or, instead of stewing the chicken, place in the upper compartment of a steamer, and steam
until tender and serve. The day following that on which stewed or steamed chicken was served,
small undesirable left-over pieces of the chicken were added (after being picked from the bones)
to the gravy remaining from the day before, heated thoroughly and poured hot over a platter
containing small baking powder biscuits broken in half or slices of toasted bread, which is
economical, extending the meat flavor.

VEGETABLES--WHITE POTATOES

Potatoes are one of the most valuable of vegetables. White potatoes, after being pared, should
be put in a stew-pan over the fire with a little boiling water, but not enough to cover them.
The water should be kept boiling continuously. About thirty minutes from the time they commence
boiling will be the time required for cooking potatoes of ordinary size. It spoils potatoes
to have the water stop boiling even for a short time. Add half a teaspoonful of salt to the
potatoes when partly boiled and when cooked sufficiently drain the water from them at once
and sprinkle a little salt over the dry potatoes. Close the lid of the stew-pan tightly, give
it a quick shake, when the potatoes will he found dry and flaky. Mash fine with a potato masher,
adding a tablespoonful of butter and a couple tablespoonfuls of milk. Let stand a minute on
the hot range to heat the milk, then beat all together with a fork until creamy. Add more salt
if necessary. That is quite important, as potatoes require considerable salt. Cover the potatoes
with a cloth. Never allow to stand with the lid of the stew-pan over them, as it will draw
moisture. Serve white potatoes as soon as possible after being cooked, as they are not appetizing
when allowed to stand any length of time.

BAKED POTATOES

All young housewives may not know "that there is more real food value in potatoes baked 'in
their jackets' than is found in preparing this well-known tuber in any other way." The secret
of a good baked potato lies in having a hot oven, but not too hot. Scrub good sized potatoes,
or, for a change, they may be pared before baking, place in a hot oven, and bake about 45 minutes,
when they should be a snowy, flaky mass inside the skins, palatable and wholesome. When fully
baked they should fed soft to the touch when pressed. Take from oven, pinch one end of potato
to break the skin to allow the gas to escape. Always break open a baked potato. Never cut with
a knife.

Medium-sized potatoes, pared, cut in half lengthwise, and baked in a hot oven 25 to 40 minutes,
until the outside of the potato is a light brown, make a pleasant change from boiled potatoes.
When baked the proper length of time and served at once, the inside of potato should be light
and flaky. The housewife should occasionally serve rice or macaroni and omit potatoes from
the bill of fare, especially in the spring of the year.

Potatoes should always be served as soon as baked, if possible. Potatoes may be baked in less
than a half hour in a gas oven.

VARIOUS WAYS OF USING SMALL POTATOES

Early in the season when small, early potatoes are more plentiful and cheaper than large ones,
the young housewife will be able to give her family a change, while practicing economy, as
there are various ways of using small potatoes to advantage.

First, new potatoes, if about the size of marbles, may be scraped, boiled in salted water,
and served with a thin cream dressing, sprinkled liberally with chopped parsley, or the boiled
potatoes, while still hot, may be quickly browned in a pan containing a couple tablespoonfuls
of hot drippings or butter. They are much better prepared in this manner if the potatoes are
put in the hot fat while still warm. Or the small boiled potatoes may be cut in thin slices,
browned in a couple tablespoonfuls of butter or drippings and two eggs beaten together stirred
over the potatoes a few minutes before they are ready to serve. The small potatoes may also
be scraped and dropped in hot, deep fat and fried like fritters.

When possible, the small potatoes should be well cleansed with a vegetable brush and boiled
without paring. They may then be easily skinned after they are cooked. Some of the more important
ingredients are lost when potatoes are pared, and it is also more economical to boil them before
paring. The cold boiled potatoes may be cut up and used for potato salad, or thinly sliced
after being skinned and placed in a baking dish alternately with a cream sauce consisting of
milk, butter and flour, and seasoned with salt and pepper, having the first and last layer
cream sauce. Sprinkle bread crumbs liberally over the top, dot with hits of butter and bake
in a moderate oven about 20 minutes until the top is nicely browned. Serve in the dish in which
they were baked.

Or peel one-half dozen medium-sized raw potatoes, cut into small, narrow strips about 1/3 inch
wide, dry on a napkin and fry in very hot, deep fat about six minutes, then lift from fat,
drain, sprinkle salt over and serve hot. These are a nice accompaniment to broiled steak.

Peel and slice, or cut in dice, 6 or 8 cold boiled potatoes, cut into in a stew-pan with 2
tablespoonfuls of butter, salt and pepper to season, heat all together, shaking pan occasionally.
Add 1/2 cup of cream, sprinkle a small teaspoonful of parsley over and serve hot. Instead of
slicing or dicing cold boiled potatoes (in the usual manner) to be fried, if they be cut in
lengthwise sections like an orange (one potato should make about 8 pieces) and fried quickly
in enough hot fat to prevent burning, they can scarcely be distinguished from raw potatoes
cut in the same manner and fried in deep fat, and are much easier to prepare. They should be
served at once.

Another manner of preparing potatoes is to slice raw potatoes as thinly as possible on a "slaw-cutter,"
place in a fry-pan with a couple of tablespoonfuls of a mixture of butter and sweet drippings.
Watch carefully, as they should be fried quickly over a hot fire, turning frequently. When
brown, serve at once.

Raw sweet potatoes cut about as thick as half a section of an orange, fried in a couple tablespoonfuls
of a mixture of sweet drippings and butter, prove a change, occasionally.

SCALLOPED POTATOES

In a baking dish place layers of pared, thinly sliced, raw white potatoes. Season with a very
little salt and pepper and scatter over small bits of butter. A very little finely minced onion
or parsley may be added if liked. To 1 quart of the sliced potatoes use a scant half pint of
milk, which should almost cover the potatoes. Either sift over the top 1 tablespoon of flour
or 2 tablespoons of fine, dried bread crumbs and bits of butter; place in hot oven and bake
about 3/4 of an hour, until top is browned nicely and potatoes are cooked through. Old potatoes
are particularly good prepared in this manner.

CANDIED SWEET POTATOES

Place in an agate pudding dish 6 pared and halved (lengthwise) raw sweet potatoes. Scatter
over them three tablespoons of sugar, 2 large tablespoons of butter cut in small bits, and
about 1/2 a cup (good measure) of water. Stand in a hot oven and bake about 3/4 of an hour.
Baste frequently with the syrup formed in the bottom of the dish. The potatoes when baked should
look clear and the syrup should be as thick as molasses. Serve in the dish in which they were
baked. Should the oven of the range not be very hot, the dish containing the potatoes may be
placed on top the range and cooked about 25 minutes before placing in oven to finish baking.

SWEET POTATO CROQUETTES

To 1 pint of hot mashed potatoes, or cold boiled ones may be used, squeezed through a fruit
press; add 1 tablespoon of butter, pinch of salt, 2 eggs, whites beaten separately. When cool,
form into small cone-shapes, dip in bread crumbs, then into egg, then into crumbs again, and
fry in deep fat. Drain on paper and serve on platter garnished with parsley.

POTATO CHIPS

Aunt Sarah's way of making particularly fine potato chips: She pared six large white potatoes,
one at a time. As she wished to slice them to fry, she rinsed the potatoes, rolled them on
a clean cloth to dry them. She sliced the potatoes thinly on a "slaw" cutter. She patted the
sliced potatoes between old linen napkins, until all moisture was absorbed, then dropped them
into hot fat, consisting of two-thirds lard and one-third suet. Place only one layer of potatoes
at a time in the fat. The chips quickly turn light brown; then remove with a perforated skimmer
to a colander lined with coarse brown paper, to absorb any remaining fat. Should the fat be
the right temperature, the chips will be entirely free from grease. Dust salt over the chips
while hot. She never allowed chips to stand in salt water, as many cooks do. She usually made
potato chips when frying doughnuts, and always fried potato chips first; after frying doughnuts
in the fat fry several large slices of potato in it, as the potato clarifies it. Six large,
thinly sliced potatoes will make about five quarts of potato chips when fried and may be kept
several weeks in a dry place. The potato chips may be re-heated by placing in a hot oven a
few minutes before serving.

FRIED EGGPLANT

Pare the egg-plant, cut in slices one-half inch thick, sprinkle salt on slices; let stand under
heavy weight several hours. Wipe slices dry with a napkin and dip in a mixture of white of
one egg, and one tablespoon of water, then dip them in fine rolled bread crumbs and fry a rich
brown in deep fat. Drain and serve. Catsup should always be served with eggplant.

BAKED "STUFFED PEPPERS"

Place a fry-pan on stove containing about two tablespoonfuls of butter, add a couple of finely
chopped sweet peppers and a finely minced small onion. Let all simmer on stove. Measure the
chopped pepper and add an equal amount of finely crumbled bread. Season with salt and pepper
and fill (well-washed) peppers from which the stem and seeds have been removed. Stand the peppers
in a bake dish containing a small amount of water. Place in a hot oven about twenty-five minutes,
or until peppers are tender. Serve hot.

CHILI (AS PREPARED IN NEW MEXICO)

Place hot peppers (well-washed) from which seeds have been removed into a bake dish containing
a very little hot water. Stand in a hot oven until tender and skins turn a yellow brown, turning
them over occasionally. Remove the outside skin, chop fine, add a small quantity of finely
minced onion, pepper and salt and enough vinegar to moisten. If sweet peppers are used add
a pinch of cayenne pepper. Serve as a relish in place of pickles or chow-chow. This recipe
was given Marry by a friend who had lived in Mexico. The outside skin of the peppers may be
more readily removed if upon being removed from the oven the peppers are sprinkled with water,
then covered with a cloth and allowed to steam a short time.

BAKED CABBAGE

A half head of cabbage was cut into small pieces and cooked in hot salted water until cabbage
was tender. The water was drained from the boiled cabbage, which was placed in an agate pudding
dish alternately with cream sauce composed of one cup of milk; one small tablespoonful of flour,
2 tablespoonfuls of butter, seasoned with salt and pepper. Sprinkle a few crumbs and place
bits of the butter over top. Bake in oven about 25 minutes and serve hot. This dish is almost
equal to cauliflower in flavor, especially if after the cabbage has cooked ten or fifteen minutes
the water is drained from it and fresh substituted. And it is said, "Cauliflower is only cabbage
with a college education."

CRIMSON CREAMED BEETS

Cut all except two inches from the tops of beets. Scrub thoroughly with a vegetable brush,
then pour scalding water over beets. When perfectly cleansed, place in a cook-pot, partly cover
with boiling water, stand on range and when beets have cooked tender remove outside skin. Strain
and stand aside one cup of water in which beets were boiled, which should be dark wine color.
When beets are to be served to the one cup of strained beet juice add one tablespoonful of
sugar, one-fourth cup of not very sharp vinegar. Add one teaspoon of butter. Thicken this liquid
with one and one-fourth tablespoonfuls of a mixture of corn starch and flour. When cooked to
the consistency of cream add the quartered beets, season with pepper and salt, stand on back
part of range a few minutes, serve hot. To three cups of the quartered beets use one and one-half
cups of cream dressing.

BUTTERED BEETS

Wash young beets, cut off tops. Boil one hour or until tender, one tablespoonful of sugar having
been added to the water in which beets were boiled. Rub off skins, cut in quarters, strew over
them one tablespoon of butter cut in small pieces, stand in oven just long enough for the butter
to melt. Or cut the beets in slices one-fourth of an inch thick and while still warm place
in a bowl and pour over them half a cup of hot vinegar and water to which had been added one
tablespoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt and pepper; serve cold.

PICKLED MANGELWURZEL

A vegetable in taste, similar to very sweet, red beets in shape, greatly resembling carrots.
Wash the mangelwurzel and place in a stew-pan with boiling water and cook until tender (allow
about an inch of top to remain when preparing to cook). Skin the mangelsurzel, slice and pour
over the following, which has been heated in a stew-pan over the fire: One cup of vinegar and
water combined, one tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of salt, a dust of pepper. Stand
aside until cold then serve. Or serve hot like buttered beets. Some "Bucks County" farmers
raise mangelwurzel simply to feed to their cattle, but Aunt Sarah preferred them when young
and tender to beets, and always raised them for her table.

GERMAN STEAMED CABBAGE

Cut one-half head of cabbage fine on a slaw cutter. Place in a stew-pan over fire, with about
four tablespoonfuls of water, one tablespoonful of butter, a couple tablespoonfuls of flour,
one teaspoonful of sugar and a pinch of salt. Cover and steam twenty minutes. Then add three
tablespoons of vinegar. Stir in one beaten egg. Cover and let stand where it will keep hot
until ready to serve.

BEAN "SNITZEL"

Place in a pan on the range one tablespoon of diced, smoked bacon, fry a few minutes, watch
closely it does not scorch. Add one tablespoonful of sweet lard, when hot, add four thinly
sliced, medium-sized onions and four chopped tomatoes and 1-1/2 quarts of string beans, cut
in inch lengths. Season with salt and a pinch of red pepper. Simmer all together three hours.
After cooking one hour add about one cup of hot water, stirring occasionally to prevent scorching,
add a little more water if necessary; when beans are tender and ready to serve there should
be a small quantity of liquid, resembling tomato sauce, with the beans.

BOILED SPINACH

Wash one-half peck of spinach thoroughly through a half dozen waters, until free from sand.
Place in a stew-pan containing a small quantity of boiling water and one teaspoon of butter.
Cook until tender, drain, chop fine. Place a large tablespoonful of butter in stew-pan and
when hot add chopped spinach, season with salt and pepper; serve in a warmed dish, garnished
with either chopped or sliced hard boiled eggs. A German cook, noted for the fine flavor of
her cooked spinach and green peas, said her secret consisted in adding a teaspoon of butter
to the vegetables while cooking.

FRIED ONIONS AND POTATOES

Another way of utilizing left-over cold boiled potatoes particularly relished by "Pennsylvania
Germans," whose liking for the humble onion is proverbial, is to fry onions with potatoes in
a fry-pan containing a couple tablespoonfuls of sweet drippings and butter; when heated place
a half dozen thinly sliced cold boiled potatoes, half the quantity of thinly sliced raw onions,
well seasoned with pepper and salt, cover and steam for ten or fifteen minutes, when uncover
and fry until light brown; serve at once. Or the thinly-sliced onions, after skins have been
removed, may be sliced thinly across the onion, placed in a fry-pan and partly covered with
boiling water; stand on hot range and steam, closely covered, about fifteen minutes, or until
onions are tender, then drain off water, should any remain, add a small tablespoonful of butter,
salt and pepper to season, fry quickly a light brown; pan should be uncovered. Serve at once
with liver or bacon. Onions are considered more wholesome prepared in this manner than if fried.

STEAMED ASPARAGUS (FINE)

Wash asparagus and cut off about an inch of the tough ends, scrape off thin skin. Place pieces
of asparagus tips (all in one direction) in the top part of perforated section of a double
boiler. Fill lower part of steamer with hot water and steam about three-quarters of an hour
or less time, until tender. The fine flavor of the vegetable is retained when steamed. When
cooked tender turn out on a hot platter and pour cream sauce over the tips, or the cream sauce
may be served separately, or the asparagus may be served on freshly toasted slices of bread,
over which the cream sauce should be poured.

"PASTURE" MUSHROOMS

All the members of the Landis family unanimously agreed in declaring the dish "Frau Schmidt"
taught Sarah Landis to prepare from the delicious edible Fungi, known as "Pasture" mushrooms
(gathered by Professor Schmidt from rich, wind-swept pastures early in the fall of the year
until the coming of frost) were good enough to tickle the palate of an epicure.

Sarah Landis was very particular to use none unless pronounced edible mushrooms, and not poisonous
toad-stools, by Professor Schmidt, who was a recognized authority. Said the Professor, "The
edible variety may be easily recognized by one having a knowledge of the vegetable. The cap
may be readily peeled, and the flesh of the 'Pasture' mushroom, when cut or broken, changes
in color to a pale rose pink, and they possess many other distinctive features, easily recognized,
when one has made a study of them."

The following is the manner in which the mushrooms were prepared by Fran Schmidt:

STEAMED MUSHROOMS.

One-half pound or about twenty-four small mushrooms were peeled, washed carefully in cold water,
placed in a small stew-pan containing two generous tablespoonfuls of butter, covered closely
and allowed to simmer or steam for twenty minutes in butter and liquid, drawn from the mushrooms
by steaming, then uncover and allow liquid in sauce-pan and mushrooms to cook about ten minutes
longer, then sprinkle two teaspoonfuls of flour over the mushrooms, brown a minute, stir into
this 1/2 cup of milk, or enough to make a sauce the consistency of cream, season well with
salt and pepper to taste. Have ready prepared six crisply toasted and buttered slices of stale
bread. Place four mushrooms and a couple of tablespoonfuls of the mushroom sauce on each slice
of bread and serve hot. The combination of toast and mushrooms results in a particularly fine
flavor.

STEWED TOMATOES

Scald ripe tomatoes by pouring boiling water over them and allowing them to stand a few minutes.
Skin them and cut in small pieces. Place in a stew-pan with 1 tablespoonful of butter, season
well with pepper and salt, cook about 25 minutes, add 1/2 teaspoonful of sugar and thicken
with 1 teaspoonful of flour mixed smooth with a little water. Let cook a few minutes, then
serve. If tomatoes are very tart a small pinch of baking soda, added when cooked, will counteract
acidity.

SWEET CORN

Sweet corn on the cob should be cooked as soon as possible after taking it from stalk, as after
being removed it soon loses its sweetness. Do not remove the husk until it is to be boiled.
Place corn in a kettle of rapidly boiling water, not salted; rather add a pinch of sugar if
corn is not as sweet as liked. Cover the kettle to prevent steam escaping. Do not use a large
quantity of water. Corn is sweeter if steamed. Boil from ten to fifteen minutes. If corn is
not cooked in that time, it should be used uncooked for corn fritters, as corn if not young
and tender may be grated and from it excellent corn fritters may be made.

FRIED TOMATOES WITH CREAM SAUCE

Cut large, solid, ripe tomatoes in half-inch slices; one ordinary tomato makes 3 slices. Dredge
thickly with flour. When he reached that part where he killed the lion and afterwards Gebhr, Chamis,
and the two Bedouins, the captain interrupted him with only two words: "All right!" after which he again
squeezed his right hand, and with Clary listened with increasing interest about the taming of
the King, about settling in Cracow, about Nell's fever, of finding Linde, and the kites which
the children sent up from Karamojo Mountains. The doctor who, with each day, became more and
more deeply attached to little Nell, was impressed so much by everything which threatened her most,
that from time to time he had to strengthen himself with a few swallows of brandy, and when Stas
began to narrate how she almost became the prey of the dreadful "wobo" or "abasanto," he caught
the little maid in his arms as if in fear that some new beast of
prey was threatening her life.

And
what he and the captain thought of Stas was best evidenced by two despatches, which within two weeks
after their arrival at the foot-hills of Kilima-Njaro they expressly
sent to the captain's deputy in Mombasa with instructions that the
latter should transmit them to the fathers.

The first one, edited carefully, for fear that it should create too astounding a sensation,
and forwarded to Port Said, contained the following words: "Thanks
to boy, favorable news about children.

Come to Mombasa." The second, more explicit, addressed to Aden, was
of this purport: "Children are with us.

Well. Boy a hero."

On the cool heights at the foot of Kilima-Njaro they stopped fifteen
days, as Doctor Clary insisted that this was imperative for Nell's
health, and even for Stas'.

The children with their whole souls admired this heaven-kissing mountain, which possesses all the climates
of the world. Its two peaks, Kibo and Kima-Wenze, during daytime were most frequently hidden in thick
fogs. But when in fair nights the fogs suddenly dispersed and from the
twilight the eternal snows on Kima-Wenze blushed with a rosy luster
at a time when the whole world was plunged in darkness, the mountain
appeared like a bright altar of God, and the hands of both children
at this sight involuntarily were folded in prayer.

For Stas the days of worry, uneasiness and exertion had passed. They had
yet before them a month of travel to Mombasa and the road led through
the charming but unhealthy forest of Taveta; but how much easier it
was to travel now, with a numerous caravan well provided with everything
and over familiar trails, than formerly to stray in the wilderness
with only Kali and Mea.

Besides, Captain Glenn was now responsible for the journey. Stas rested and hunted. Aside from
this, having found among the implements of the caravan a chisel and hammers, he was in the cooler
hours engaged in chiseling upon a great gneiss rock the inscription "Jeszcze Polska nie zginela,"*
[* "Poland is not yet lost."

The title of the most popular Polish national march.-- Translator's
note.] for he wished to leave some trace of their sojourn in that
region.

The Englishmen, to whom he translated the inscription, were astonished
that it never occurred to the boy to perpetuate his own name on that
rock. But he preferred to carve the words he had chosen. He did not
cease, however, to take care of Nell and awoke in her such unbounded
confidence that when Clary asked her whether she did not fear the
storms on the Red Sea, the little maid raised her beautiful, calm
eyes and only answered, "Stas will know what to do."

Captain Glenn claimed that truer evidence of what Stas was to the little one and greater praise
for the boy no one would be able to pronounce.

When the housewife serves a dish of baked beans at a meal, serve also a quart of stewed tomatoes.
The day following a "tomato sauce" may be quickly prepared by adding a well-cooked carrot and
an onion to the "left-over" tomatoes. Press all through a coarse sieve, adding a little water
if too thick; re-heat beans in this; serve hot. A delicious "cream of tomato soup" may be prepared
by substituting milk or cream to which a small pinch of baking soda has been added, omitting
the beans.

COOKED HOMINY

Wash one cup of hominy through several waters. (The grains should resemble kernels of corn.)
Cover with cold water and stand in a cool place over night. In the morning, drain. Place the
hominy in an agate pudding dish holding 2 quarts, cover with boiling water, add more water
as the grains swell and water boils away, and 1 teaspoonful of salt. The hominy should be placed
on the range to cook early in the morning on the day it is to be served and continue cooking
slowly until late afternoon, when all the water should have been absorbed and each grain should
be large, white and flaky. The dish should be about three-quarters full.

A half hour before serving the hominy, at a six o'clock dinner, add a generous tablespoonful
of butter and about 3/4 of a cup of hot milk and stand on back of range until served. This
is a remarkably cheap, wholesome and appetizing dish if served properly and is easily prepared.

GRATED "PARSNIP CAKES"

Scrape, then grate enough raw parsnips to fill two cups, put in a bowl and add the yolk of
one egg, pinch of salt, 1 tablespoonful of milk, 1 tablespoonful of flour, lastly add the stiffly-beaten
white of egg.

Form into small round cakes, dust with flour and fry brown on both sides in a pan containing
a tablespoonful of butter and one of drippings. Or these may be crumbed and fried in deep fat.
These are much finer flavored than if parsnips had been cooked before being fried.

TO MAKE "SAUER KRAUT"

Cut heads of cabbage in half, after trimming off outside leaves. Cut out centres or hearts,
cut cabbage fine on a regular old-fashioned cabbage cutter, which has a square box on top of
cutter to hold the pieces of cabbage when being pushed back and forth over the cutter. If not
possible to procure this, use small slaw cutter for the purpose.

Partly fill a large pan with the cut cabbage, and mix enough salt, with the hands, through
the cut cabbage to be palatable when tasted, no more. This was the rule taught Aunt Sarah by
her Grandmother, and always followed by her. Then put the salted cabbage into a wooden cask
or small tub to the depth of several inches. Pound the cabbage down well with a long-handled,
heavy, wooden mallet, something like a very large wooden potato masher. Then mix another panful
of finely cut cabbage, lightly salted, into the tub and pound down well, as before. Continue
in this manner until the tub is partly filled with cabbage, pounding down well at the last
until the liquid formed by the cabbage and salt rises above the cabbage. Cover the kraut with
a layer of large, clean cabbage or grape leaves, then cover top with a clean piece of muslin
cloth, place a round, clean board on top and put a well-scrubbed, heavy stone on the board
to weight it down. Stand the tub in a warm place several days, to ferment. When fermentation
begins, the liquor rises over the top of the board. Remove the scrum which rises to top, in
about six days, and stand in a cool part of the cellar after washing stone and cloth with cold
water, return to top of kraut and in two weeks the sauer kraut will be ready to use. Should
the sauer kraut require extra liquid at any time, add one quart of water in which has been
dissolved two teaspoonfuls of salt. Squeeze the sauer kraut quite dry when taking it from the
brine to cook. Boil about two quarts of the sauer kraut several hours with a piece of fresh
pork and a little water until the pork is thoroughly cooked through, when the sauer kraut should
be cooked tender.

Some prefer "frankfurters" cooked with the kraut instead of pork, and others do not care for
the German dish without the accompaniment of drop dumplings. Serve mashed potatoes and simple
dessert with sauer kraut.

Aunt Sarah taught Mary to save the hearts of the cabbage usually thrown aside when making sauer
kraut. The hearts were trimmed all one size, like small triangles. She cooked them in salted
water until tender, drained them and served with a cream dressing, and they had much the flavor
of a dish of cauliflower.

Frau Schmidt always placed several tart apples among her sauer kraut when making it, and thought
it improved the flavor of the kraut; gave it a "winey" flavor, obtained in no other manner.
A sour apple, cored and cooked with sauer kraut is considered by some cooks an improvement.
The apple, of course, is not eatable. Aunt Sarah never placed apples with her sauer kraut.

DUMPLINGS TO SERVE WITH SAUER KRAUT

For these dumplings, 1 egg was broken into a bowl and well beaten. Then a pinch of salt was
added and 1/2 cup of sweet milk. Enough flour was added to make a soft dough, and one tablespoonful
of baking powder was sifted with a very little flour into the batter, then a little more flour
was added to make the dough the right consistency. Form the dough into small balls, handling
as little as possible. Drop on top of the hot cooked "sauer kraut" in cook-pot on range and
boil, closely covered, about 20 minutes.

Aunt Sarah taught Mary to cook green vegetables, peas, spinach, etc., in a stew-pan uncovered,
if she wished them to retain their natural color. Also, that old potatoes may be freshened
by being allowed to stand a short time in cold water before being cooked, but they should not
stand too long a time in cold water, as it draws the starch from them and causes them to be
tasteless, and to lose part of their nourishing qualities.

Also that one teaspoonful of salt will usually season one quart of vegetables, to be put in
when the vegetables begin to cook. Cauliflower, cabbage, lettuce and watercress should stand
in a pan containing water and a little vinegar for a half hour. This will cause insects to
drop to the bottom of the pan.

Changing the water on cabbage and onions when partly cooked will improve their flavor.

PARSLEY DRIED TO PRESERVE ITS GREEN COLOR

Young housewives possessing a bed of parsley in their kitchen gardens, wishing to preserve
it for use during the winter, may like to know how Aunt Sarah taught Mary to dry it in a manner
to preserve its bright green color.

She washed the parsley in cold water and while still moist placed it on agate pans and dried
it quickly in a very hot oven. Watch carefully as it scorches easily. Place the parsley when
dried, in tin cans covered to exclude the dust.

TIME REQUIRED TO COOK VEGETABLES

Bake good-sized potatoes in oven about 45 minutes. Smaller potatoes require less time to bake.

Boil ordinary sized potatoes 25 to 30 minutes.

Steam asparagus from 30 to 40 minutes.

Boil young beets about 60 minutes or longer.

Old beets, two hours, or until tender.

Green corn on cob about 10 or 15 minutes.

Cauliflower, 30 minutes.

Cabbage, 30 to 40 minutes.

Turnips and carrots, 40 minutes.

String beans, 60 minutes to 2 hours.

Lima beans, 45 minutes to 1 hour.

Onions about 1 hour.

Squash about 30 minutes.

Parsnips, 30 to 40 minutes.

Sweet potatoes, good size, 40 minutes.

Spinach, 25 minutes.

Tomatoes, 25 minutes.

Salt should be added to the water when boiling potatoes, carrots, cabbage, parsnips, turnips
and onions, even if liquid in which they were boiled is drained from them after being cooked,
before being seasoned. Add a small pinch of baking soda to the water in which string beans
are boiled, and they will cook tender in less time. Especially should this be done if the beans
are not young and tender.

COMMON "CREAM SAUCE"

Young housekeepers will be surprised to learn of the various attractive, appetizing dishes
which may be prepared by combining them with a "cream sauce." After cooking vegetables until
tender in salted water, they should be drained and served with a cream sauce poured over. The
art of making a smooth, creamy sauce of the proper consistency is easily acquired. A good rule
for "common cream sauce" is 1 cup of milk, water, or meat broth, thickened with 1 tablespoonful
to 1-1/2 tablespoonfuls of flour, or a combination of flour and cornstarch. Mix flour, or cornstarch,
with a small quantity of cold milk or water, to a smooth paste, before adding it to liquid;
add, usually, one tablespoonful of butter. Place the mixture in a saucepan and cook until the
consistency of cream, add 1/2 teaspoonful of salt just before removing from the fire, and dust
pepper over when serving. When mixing gravy to serve with roast beef or veal, omit butter.
For a thick sauce use either 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of flour and the same amount of butter.
This thick sauce may be used to mix with meat for croquettes in the proportion of 1 cup of
sauce to 2 cups of chopped cold roast lamb, beef, veal or chicken. Should a richer sauce be
desired, add 1 or more yolks of eggs to the cream sauce. Some of the numerous dishes which
might be served by the young housewife to vary the daily bill of fare by the addition of "cream
sauce," are: Small, new potatoes, cauliflower, onions, cabbage asparagus tips, thinly sliced
carrots, celery, mushrooms, fish, oysters, chicken, veal and sweetbreads. All of these, when
coked, may be served on slices of toasted bread, or served in Pattie-cases, with cream sauce,
or served simply with cream sauce. This is true excepting in recipes where the flour is browned.
(Aunt Sarah was one who thought thus.) The latter method is not "practicable for brown gravies,"
to quote the Farmers' Bulletin.

The Farmers' Bulletin further adds:

"Considering the large amount of discussion about the digestibility of fried food and of gravies
made by heating flour in fat, a few words on the subject at this point may not be out of order.
It is difficult to see how heating the fat before adding the flour can be unwholesome, unless
the cook is unskillful enough to heat the fat so high that it begins to scorch. Overheated
fat, as has already been pointed out, contains an acrid, irritating substance called 'Acrolein,'
which may readily be considered to be unwholesome. It is without doubt the production of this
body by overheating which has given fried food its bad name. There are several ways of varying
the flavor of gravies and sauces. One should be especially mentioned here.

BUTTER, CHEESE AND SUET--A SUBSTITUTE FOR BUTTER

This formula for preparing a good, sweet, wholesome substitute for butter to be used for baking
and frying was given Aunt Sarah by a thrifty German hausfrau, who prepared and used it in her
large family many years. Aunt Sarah always kept a supply on hand. It was made as follows:

10 pounds of fine solid kidney suet. 10 pounds of clean pork fat. 10 pounds of butter.

The suet cut in small pieces was put in a large boiler of water, boiled until all was melted,
and the fat extracted from the suet. It was then all poured through a fine sieve into a vessel
containing hot water (the larger the quantity of hot water the finer the fat will be). Stand
aside to become cold and solid. The boiling process prevents the peculiar taste which fried
lard and suet usually possess. Treat the pork fat in a similar manner. Allow the suet and pork
fat to stand until the following morning, when remove the solid fat from the boiler of water,
wipe off all moisture and add both pork fat and suet fat to the melted butter, which had been
prepared in the following manner: The butter was melted in a porcelain lined boiler and allowed
to cook until all salt and other foreign substance had settled and the butter had the appearance
of clear oil. At this point the butter should be watched carefully, as when settled it might
quickly boil over, when you would be liable to lose your butter, besides suffering serious
consequences. Now the liquid butter, suet and pork fat are all put together into a large boiler
and allowed to melt together on the back part of the range. This will probably be done in the
morning. After the noon meal is finished move the boiler containing fat to front part of range;
let come to a boil, skimming it occasionally as it boils up. It needs close watching now, the
fat being liable to cook over the top of boiler, when the "fat" will surely be "in the fire."
Carefully pour into stone crock, and it may be kept for months in a cool place. The fat which
has been first poured off the top, if it has been carefully skimmed, will keep longest. The
last taken from the boiler should be put in a stone crock to use first. This may be prepared
in lesser quantities, or a smaller quantity of butter might be used to mix with the lard and
suet. Although the preparation is to be preferred composed of equal quantities of butter, lard
and suet, adding milk to the first water in which the suet is boiled is quite an improvement.
After filling the crocks with the fat, take the boiled-out suet and hard scraps and settlings
of butter remaining and go through the same process and you will have a small jar of cooking
fat for immediate use. A little trouble to do this, I admit, but one is well paid by having
good, sweet, inexpensive cooking fat. I should advise a young housekeeper to experiment with
one pound each of clarified suet and pork fat after it is rendered, and one pound of butter
before attempting the preparation of a larger quantity.

BUTTER--AS IT WAS MADE AT THE FARM, BY "AUNT SARAH"

Aunt Sarah strained fresh, sweet milk into small, brown earthenware crocks kept for this purpose,
scrupulously clean. The crocks were kept in the spring-house or cellar in summer (in cold weather
the milk should be kept in a warmer place to allow cream to form on the top of the milk). When
the cream was thick and sour she skimmed the cream from off the top of milk every day, stirring
the cream well together every time she added fresh cream to that on hand. Aunt Sarah churned
twice a week; sour cream should not be kept a longer time than one week. The churn was scalded
with boiling water, then rinsed with cold water; this prevented the butter adhering to the
churn. The cream should be at a temperature of 60 degrees when put in the churn, but this would
be almost too cold in Winter. In very hot weather the temperature of the cream should be 56
degrees. Aunt Sarah tested the cream with a small dairy tube thermometer. She churned steadily
and usually had butter "come" in about 25 minutes, but should the cream he too cold or too
warm it would be necessary to churn a longer time. If the cream is too warm, stand vessel containing
cream on ice; if too cold, stand in a warm place near the range. When the sour cream had been
churned a certain length of time and granules of butter had formed, she drained off the buttermilk
and poured water over the granules of butter. Water should be two degrees colder than the buttermilk.
After churning a few minutes the lump of butter was removed from the churn, placed in a bowl,
washed thoroughly several times in very cold water, until no buttermilk remained. The butter
was worked thoroughly, with a wooden paddle, until all buttermilk had been extracted. One small
tablespoonful of salt was added to each pound of butter. She worked the butter well, to incorporate
the salt, and molded it into shape. Aunt Sarah did not knead the butter, but smoothed it down,
then lifted it up from the large, flat, wooden bowl in which it was molded. When the butter
was to be molded into small shapes, she scalded the small wooden molds, then dipped them into
cold water before using; this prevented the butter adhering to the molds. Before commencing
to churn butter, Aunt Sarah was particular to have her hands scrupulously clean. All the utensils
used were washed in hot water, then rinsed in cold water, both hands and utensils. She frequently
wrapped small pats of freshly-churned butter in small squares of clean cheese-cloth and placed
in a stone crock with a cover. Placed in the crock was usually, with the butter, a bunch of
sweet clover blossoms, which imparted to the butter a delicious flavor.

"SMIER-KASE" OR COTTAGE CHEESE

Stand a pan containing three quarts of milk in a warm place until it becomes sour and quite
thick. Stand the pan containing the thick milk on the back part of the range, where it will
heat gradually but not cook. When the "whey" separates from the curd in the centre and forms
around the edges it is ready to use. Should the sour milk become too hot on the range, or scald,
the curds, or smier-kase, will not become soft and creamy. When the curd has separated from
the "whey," pour the contents of the pan into a cheese-cloth bag and hang in the open air to
drip for several hours, when it should be ready to use.

From three quarts of sour milk you should obtain one good pound of smier-kase. To prepare it
for the table place one-half the quantity in a bowl and add one teaspoonful of softened butter,
a pinch of salt and mix as smoothly as possible. Or the smier-kase may be molded into small
rolls, and a small quantity of finely-chopped Pimento added. This will keep fresh several days
if kept in a cool cellar or refrigerator.

USES OF "SWEET DRIPPINGS" AND SUET

For deep frying Mary was taught to use lard and kidney suet combined. The latter had been tried
out by cutting suet in small pieces. The suet, in an iron pan, was placed in a moderately hot
oven until fat was tried out. To prevent suet when rendered having a taste of tallow, place
in the upper part of boiler, over one containing hot water, and stand on a hot range until
all is tried out, or melted, instead of putting it in oven. Strain into a jar and stand aside
in a cool place until wanted. Take one-third of this tried-out suet to two-thirds lard when
frying croquettes, oysters, cruellers or fritters. Suet contains food value equal to that of
lard and food fried in this fat, combined with lard, is more wholesome than if fried in lard
alone--if any food fried in fat ever is wholesome. And suet is more economical than lard if
rendered at home. Mary was taught by her Aunt to save all the trimmings from steaks, fat left
over from roasts, boiled ham, sausage, bacon fat, etc. When different fats have been tried
out, to clarify them, add to every pound and a half of combined fat or drippings a half cup
of boiling water and a pinch of baking soda. Boil until water evaporates and fat is clear.
Strain into a bowl and keep in a cool place. Clean, sweet drippings are preferred by most cooks
to lard for many purposes. All young housewives do not know that ham or bacon fat may be substituted
for half the shortening called for in many recipes for molasses cakes (where spices are used)
with good results. Also that the grease rendered from clean fat of chickens, which greatly
resembles butter when tried out and cold, may be combined with an equal quantity of other shortening
in making cakes in which spices are used. The difference in the taste of cake made from this
fat, if rendered sweet and clean, will not be noticed. Equal parts of ham or bacon fat, pork
chops or sausage fat, combined with butter, are excellent for frying cornmeal mush, eggs, sweet
potatoes, egg bread and calves' liver. Also sliced tomatoes have a particularly fine flavor
if fried in bacon fat. Should fat removed from top of stock pot have a flavor of vegetables,
pour boiling water over, strain and stand aside to cool; then remove the clean cake of fat
on top of the water and add to bowl of drippings. This is one of the small economies which
will, I think, appeal to the frugal young housewife. If possible, procure an iron pot for deep
frying. After using, strain the fat remaining, adding sediment in the bottom of cook-pot to
the can of soap fat; then return the clean, strained fat to the cook pot. Keep in a cool place,
closely covered, and if careful not to scorch the fat. It may be used over and over again,
and croquettes, etc., may be prepared in a few moments by simply heating the kettle of fat
in which to fry them.

Aunt Sarah frequently filled small glass jars with rendered mutton suet, scented with violet
essence, to be used for chapped lips and hands.

EGGS--"EIERKUCHEN" OR OMELETTE

For this excellent omelette or "eierkuchen," as Aunt Sarah called it, she used the following:

3 fresh eggs. 1 cup sweet milk. 3 level tablespoonfuls of flour.

She placed on the range a small fry pan (size of a tea plate), containing one tablespoonful
of butter. She then placed 3 tablespoonfuls of flour in a bowl, mixed smoothly with a portion
of the cup of milk, then added the three yolks of eggs which had been lightly beaten and the
balance of the milk and a pinch of salt. Lastly, she stirred in lightly the stiffly-beaten
whites of eggs. Poured all into the warmed fry-pan and placed it in a moderately hot oven until
lightly browned on top. The omelette when cooked should be light and puffy, and remain so while
being served. Double the omelette together on a hot platter and sprinkle finely chopped parsley
over the top. Serve immediately.

HARD BOILED EGGS

Eggs to be hard boiled should be carefully placed in boiling water and cooked 15 minutes from
the time the water commences to boil again. If cooked a longer time, the white of egg will
look dark and the outer part of yolk will not be a clear yellow, as it should, to look appetizing
when served.

SOFT BOILED EGGS

The quicker way to prepare eggs is to drop them in a stew-pan containing boiling water, and
let boil 3-1/2 to 4 minutes, when the white part of the egg should be "set" and the yolk soft,
but a soft boiled egg is said to be more easily digested if dropped into a stew-pan of rapidly
boiling water; remove the stew-pan of boiling water the minute the eggs have been put in from
the front part of the range to a place where the water will keep hot, but not allow the eggs
to boil. Let the eggs remain in the hot water from 8 to 10 minutes. On breaking the egg open,
the yolk will be found soft, and the white of the egg a soft, jelly-like consistency. This
latter is the way Aunt Sarah taught Mary.

AN EGG AND TOMATO OMELETTE

Beat the yolks of three eggs until light, then add three tablespoonfuls of water. Beat the
whites of the eggs separately. Turn the stiffly-beaten whites of the eggs into the bowl containing
the yolks of eggs and water. Stir lightly together and add a pinch of salt. Turn all into a
small fry-pan containing a generous tablespoonful of butter and cook on top of stove until
the eggs are set, then place the pan containing omelette in a hot oven and finish cooking.
When cooked, turn out on a hot platter and spread over the top the following, which was prepared
while the omelette was cooking. In a small fry-pan place a tablespoonful of finely-chopped
bacon. When fried brown add half a small tomato, finely chopped, 1/4 of an onion, chopped fine,
and a little chopped green pepper. Cook all together for a short time and season with salt
and pepper. After spreading the mixture on the omelette, fold over and serve on a hot platter.
This recipe had been given Frau Schmidt years before by a friend and she used no other for
making omelette. Always make small omelettes. They are more satisfactory. Use a small pan no
larger than a small tea plate, and, if wished, make two small, rather than one large one. Always
serve immediately.

MUSHROOM OMELETTE

Place the yolks of three eggs in a bowl and beat until light. Add a teaspoonful of cream and
1/2 teaspoonful of flour mixed together; 1/2 cup of chopped mushrooms, salt and pepper and
a dust of baking powder. Lastly, the stiffly-beaten whites of the eggs. Turn into a pan containing
two tablespoonfuls of melted butter, stand on range a few minutes until eggs are set, then
finish cooking in a hot oven. Serve at once.

A few cold, steamed mushrooms (left-overs), if finely chopped, and added to a plain omelette
or roast, will improve the flavor.

A CLAM OMELETTE

Two eggs beaten separately, 1 scant cup of milk, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 6 clams run through
a food-chopper. Place in a bowl the tablespoon of flour and mix smooth with a little of the
milk. Then add the two yolks of eggs and beat well together. Add the milk, salt and pepper,
the chopped clams, and lastly the stiffly-beaten whites of eggs, and add a trifle more flour,
if necessary. Drop a couple of tablespoons at a time in a large fry-pan containing a couple
of tablespoons of butter or drippings. They spread out about the size of a small saucer. Fry
as many at a time as the pan will conveniently hold without running together. Turn when browned
lightly on one side, and when the other side has cooked fold together and serve at once. Garnish
with parsley. These are very easily made for luncheon, and are very nice served with fried chicken.

DEVILED EGGS

Boil half a dozen eggs until hard. Remove shells, cut in halves, mash the yolks to a smooth
paste with about 1/2 teaspoon mixed mustard, 1 teaspoon softened butter, pepper and salt to
taste. Some like a small quantity of cold boiled minced ham added. When ingredients are well
mixed, press enough of this mixture into the cup-shaped whites of eggs to form a rounding top.
Serve on a platter of parsley. To boil eggs uniformly, they should be placed in a wire basket
and plunged into boiling water and boiled not longer than 15 to 20 minutes from time water
commences to boil, then pour cold water over and shell them.

EGGS IN CREAM SAUCE

Four eggs, boiled hard, cut in halves lengthwise, then across, each egg cut in four pieces.
A cream sauce was made using 1/2 cups sweet milk, 1-1/2 tablespoons flour, 1 generous tablespoon
of butter, seasoned with salt. After letting milk come to a boil and adding flour mixed smoothly
with a little cold milk or water, add butter and cook until a thick creamy consistency, then
add the quartered eggs to sauce. Stand a few minutes until heated through. Pour the creamed
eggs over four or five slices of nicely-toasted bread. Sprinkle a little finely-chopped parsley
and a pinch of pepper over top and serve at once. This is a delicious and quickly prepared
luncheon dish.

A very wholesome and digestible way to prepare an egg is to put yolk and white of a fresh egg
together in a bowl, beat lightly, pour over the egg a pint of rich milk, which has been heated
to the boiling point. Add a pinch of salt. Stir constantly while slowly adding the milk. The
hot milk should slightly cook the egg. Eat slowly with crackers or toasted bread.

AUNT SARAH'S METHOD OF PRESERVING EGGS WITH LIQUID WATER GLASS

Aunt Sarah for many years preserved eggs in water glass, or soluble glass, also known as "Sodium
Silicate," a thick liquid about the consistency of molasses. It is not expensive and may easily
be procured at any drug store. She used the water glass in the proportion of 10 quarts of water
to one pint of the water glass. The water glass, although in liquid form, is usually sold by
the pound, and 1-1/2 pounds equals one pint. The water should always he boiled and allowed
to cool before combining with the water glass.

She was particular to use none but perfectly clean, fresh eggs. She placed the eggs, narrow
end down, in an earthenware crock which had been well scalded and cooled. When the water glass
had been thoroughly mixed through the water she poured the mixture over the eggs in the crock.

A stronger solution might be used to preserve the eggs, but Aunt Sarah declared she used eggs
for baking cake which were good at the expiration of a year, which had been preserved in a
mixture of 10 quarts of water to a pint of water glass, and she considered this proportion
perfectly reliable. So I do not see the need of using a large quantity of the water glass,
although many recipes call for a mixture of one pint of water glass to only 8 quarts of water.

Fresh eggs may be added daily until the crock is filled, having the mixture at least one inch
above the last layer of eggs. It is best not to wash the eggs before packing, as this removes
the natural mucilaginous coating on the outside of the shell. Place clean, fresh eggs carefully
into the crock containing the water glass and water, with a long-handled spoon to avoid cracking
the shell. Stand the crock containing eggs in a cool place, cover with a cloth tied over top
of crock, avoiding frequent change of temperature; they should keep one year. The water glass
solution may become cloudy, and resemble a soft-soap mixture, but this is a natural condition
and does not affect the eggs.

April is considered the best month for packing eggs. Infertile eggs are to be preferred to
others. Carefully remove the eggs from the water glass mixture with a long-handled spoon when
wanted to use, as the shells are sometimes not quite as hard as when placed in the crock. The
eggs may be used for cooking, baking, in fact, for any purpose except soft-boiled but should
you wish to boil them, a tiny puncture should be made in the shell of these eggs before boiling.

Ten quarts of water to one pint of water glass will cover about 12 or 13 dozen eggs.

TO TEST FRESH EGGS.

Place an egg in a tumbler, fill tumbler with cold water. If eggs are fresh they will remain
in the bottom of tumbler. If not strictly fresh the egg will float on the top, or near the
top of tumbler of water.

SALADS--AUNT SARAH'S SALAD DRESSING

For this she used 1 pint of sour cream, 1-1/2 tablespoonfuls of flour, 1-1/2 tablespoonfuls
of mustard (pulverized dry mustard), 3 eggs, 1/4 cup butter (or 1/4 cup of olive oil may be
used instead, if liked), 1/2 cup good sour vinegar, 1/2 teaspoonful of black pepper and a pinch
of red pepper (cayenne), salt to taste, 1/2 teaspoonful of sugar. Place in a bowl the 1-1/2
tablespoonfuls of flour with the same quantity of mustard; mix smoothly with a little of the
sour cream. Then add the eggs, beaten in one at a time, or use, instead, the yolks of five
eggs. When using the whites for angel cake or any white cake Aunt Sarah usually made salad
dressing from the remaining yolks of eggs. Add the sour cream and vinegar, salt and pepper.
Mix all well together and strain through a fine sieve and cook in a double boiler over hot
water until a creamy consistency. Pour in glass jars. This dressing will keep well on ice or
in a cool place for two weeks. If too thick, thin with a little vinegar, water or milk when
using it. About 3/4 of a cup of this dressing was used for mixing with 1 cup of the meat of
cold, cooked chicken in making chicken salad. The white meat of chicken was cut in dice and
3/4 cup of celery was also cut in small pieces, a couple of hard boiled eggs, cut in dice,
were added and the whole was carefully mixed with the salad dressing. Cold boiled veal or pork
may be used instead of chicken for salad. Potato salad was sometimes prepared by using a small
quantity of this dressing, adding, also, minced onion, parsley and celery. Hot slaw was prepared
by heating a couple of tablespoonfuls of the salad dressing and mixing with shredded cabbage.
Or use as a dressing for lettuce when not served "Au Natural" with olive oil and vinegar at
the table.

Should very thick, sour cream be used in making "Aunt Sarah's salad dressing," use a mixture
of sour cream and sweet milk, instead of all sour cream.

"DUTCH" CUCUMBER SALAD

Thinly slice one large green cucumber and one medium-sized onion (if liked). Sprinkle over
about one teaspoonful of salt. Allow to stand a short time, then place in a piece of cheese-cloth
and squeeze out all the moisture possible. Place cucumbers, when drained, in the dish in which
they are to be served, add a couple tablespoonfuls of sour vinegar, mix well. Then pour over
enough thick sour cream to half cover and a dust of pepper. Cucumbers are considered less unwholesome,
prepared in this manner.

CARROT SALAD

Aunt Sarah pared and cut 1-1/2 cups of uncooked carrots in thin strips, not much larger than
common match sticks, and cooked in salted water until tender. When drained, pour over them
a couple of tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Allowed to stand until cold. When ready to prepare the
salad she drained off vinegar remaining. Lined a salad bowl with lettuce leaves or parsley,
placed inside this a border of halved or sliced cold hard-boiled eggs; mixed the carrots lightly
with salad dressing, placed them in the centre of the bowl and served ice cold. This is a particularly
delicious, as well as an appetizing looking, salad. I have never eaten this elsewhere than
at Aunt Sarah's home.

"AN OLD RECIPE" FOR CHICKEN SALAD

Two dressed chickens were cooked tender. When cold, meat was removed from bones and cut in
dice (not too fine). Cut half the amount of celery you have of meat into small pieces.

Dressing for salad was composed of the following: Three well-beaten yolks of eggs. Pour over
these 1 pint of boiling hot cider vinegar, stand on back of range to thicken. Place in a bowl
3 freshly boiled and finely mashed white potatoes, add 1 tablespoonful of dry mustard, 6 teaspoonfuls
of olive oil, 1 tablespoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of pepper. Mix all well together, then
add the thickened vinegar. Beat together until creamy and stand aside until chilled.

Drop the three whites of eggs in hot water, remove when cooked, chop fine and when cold add
to the chicken meat and celery.

Pour the dressing over all the ingredients, stir lightly with a fork and stand in a cold place
until chilled before serving.

GERMAN POTATO SALAD

Boil one dozen small potatoes without paring. Remove the skin and cut potatoes size of dice,
also a small onion, finely minced. Put small pieces of bacon in a pan and fry brown and crisp.
Add a large tablespoonful of vinegar and a pinch of salt. Pour the hot bacon fat and vinegar
over the diced potatoes, toss them up lightly with a fork and serve hot.

GERMAN TURNIP SALAD

This is the manner in which Aunt Sarah made turnip salad: She pared and sliced thin on a slaw
cutter 5 large, solid turnips, put them in a stew-pan which she placed on the range, adding
about 1/4 cup hot water, 1 teaspoonful of butter and 1/4 teaspoonful of sugar (no more). She
covered the stew-pan closely and steamed about half an hour until the turnips were tender.
Then mixed together 1 teaspoonful of flour with 1 tablespoonful of vinegar and yolk of one
egg. This was poured over the stewed turnips, just allowed to come to a boil, then removed
from the fire. Add a little salt and serve hot.

GERMAN SALAD DRESSING

For dandelion, watercress, endive or lettuce, a dressing was made thus: The leaves of vegetables
used for salad, after being carefully rinsed and looked over, were cut fine, and the following
dressing poured over hot and served at once.

A small quantity of bacon was finely minced and fried crisp. To about 2 tablespoonfuls of bacon
and fat after being fried, 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar and 1 of sour cream, were added pepper
and salt and a very little flour mixed with cold water, to make it the consistency of cream.
The yolk of one raw egg may be added to the dressing if liked. An easier way for the busy housewife
to do is to simply add a couple of tablespoonfuls of Aunt Sarah's Salad Dressing, add also
a small quantity of water, flour and fried, diced bacon; serve hot at once.

MARY'S POTATO SALAD

A bowl of cold, boiled, diced or thinly-sliced potatoes, three hard boiled eggs, also diced,
and about half the quantity of celery chopped in half-inch pieces, and a little minced onion,
just enough to give a suspicion of its presence. She mixed all together lightly with a silver
fork and mixed through some of the following salad dressing, which is fine for anything requiring
a cold salad dressing.

MARY'S SALAD DRESSING

One tablespoonful of flour, 1 tablespoonful of mustard, 2 cups of sweet or sour cream, 1 tablespoonful
of sugar, 1/2 cup of good sharp vinegar, yolks of four eggs, small teaspoonful of salt. Omit
sugar when using the dressing for potato or chicken salad. This salad dressing may also be
used for lettuce.

"FRUIT" SALAD DRESSING

Three tablespoonfuls of olive oil to 1-1/2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Season with salt and
pepper. Use this quantity for 1 pint of salad.

GRAPE FRUIT SALAD

Cut the pulp from one grape fruit into small pieces, add an equal amount of chopped apples,
a few English walnuts chopped coarsely. Serve on lettuce leaves with fruit salad dressing.
This recipe was given Mary by a friend who knew her liking for olive oil.

Grape fruit is delicious, served cut in halves with the addition to each half; of a couple
tablespoonfuls of pineapple juice, a tablespoonful of orange juice or tiny pieces of orange
pulp, topped with a marachino cherry. A small quantity of sugar should have been added. The
sections of grape fruit should each have been cut loose from the white skin inclosing pulp
with a small knife or scissors.

A GOOD, INEXPENSIVE SALAD DRESSING

1 tablespoonful flour. 1 tablespoonful butter. 1 tablespoonful mustard. 1/2 tablespoonful sugar.
1 teaspoonful salt. 1 egg. 3/4 cup milk. 3/4 cup vinegar.

Use a double boiler, put in it the first five articles, stir together until smooth; add the
well-beaten egg and the milk. Let cook, stirring hard. Then add vinegar, and beat all with
an egg-beater until the mixture is smooth and creamy. Let cool before using.

Aunt Sarah frequently used this salad dressing over sliced, cold, hard boiled eggs when other
salad materials were not plentiful. Serve on lettuce leaves.

IMITATION LOBSTER SALAD

A bowl was lined with crisp lettuce leaves, over this was spread a layer of cold boiled potatoes,
cut in dice, a little finely minced onion, a layer of chopped celery, another layer of diced
potatoes, then a layer of sliced tomatoes and one hard boiled egg, thinly sliced. Pour a good
salad dressing over and serve ice cold.

"GERMAN" The number of parent consultations with doctors has increased by one-half
the record for 1914, and in contrast with 500 health talks given to
classes by nurses last year, we have 1,260 talks by physicians and
4,431 by nurses to classes in 1914-1915.

This method of varied problems is unquestionably effective in promoting growth and maintaining
interest on the part of the staff. Care should be taken, however, to provide that within each four-year
period-- twice during the eight years of school life-- special emphasis
be laid upon the discovery and cure of each of the more important
defects.

How this emphasis should be distributed is a matter best decided
by the staff in conference.

It might be found advisable to adopt a plan whereby special attention is given to teeth, adenoids,
tonsils, and glands in the lower grades; posture and heart in the upper grades; and eyes, hearing,
lungs, and nutrition straight through the grades. Whatever plan is adopted must be the result
of study, consultation, and experiment, in an endeavor to find the most economical investment
of effort on the part of nurses and doctors in terms of results gained.

Speech defects are very common among children. At first they yield readily to treatment, but if allowed
to continue through the adolescent period the habit becomes fixed so that trying to cure it is
a difficult and often fruitless task. Judging from the experience of other cities, about 200
boys and 800 girls in the Cleveland public school system are suffering
from some form of speech defect.

There are few fields in which the medical inspection department has
such an opportunity for effective work and in which so little has
been done.

Effort should be made to locate these children, and form them into groups for daily training,
under the direction of a teacher specially prepared to handle speech
cases.

UNIFORM PROCEDURE In the fall of 1914, the medical staff conducted
a survey of its own efficiency.

A committee prepared questions concerning procedure, and secured answers
from each member of the staff.

These answers were compared and discussed in staff meetings and
uniform rules were finally adopted for examinations and recording.

In line with this, the staff somewhat earlier prepared rules for reporting defects so that
all records may be compiled on the same basis.

This standardization of work is an especially noteworthy feature of the Cleveland system, and
should furnish valuable suggestions to medical inspection departments
of other cities. The salad dressing should he put in another bowl and stood on ice until cold,
then mix the salad dressing carefully through the chicken meat, celery, etc., one hour before
using. Cover with a plate until ready to serve. Or "Aunt Sarah's Salad Dressing" could be used
over the chicken, celery, etc. This is a very old but an excellent recipe used by Aunt Sarah's
mother for many years.

PEPPER HASH

Chop fine with a knife, but do not shred with a slaw cutter, 1 pint of finely chopped cabbage,
adding 1 teaspoonful of salt, 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, 1 teaspoonful of whole mustard seed,
1/2 a chopped red, sweet pepper, a pinch of red cayenne pepper and 1/2 pint of vinegar. Mix
all well together and serve with fried oysters, oyster stew and deviled oysters.

This "pepper hash" is delicious if a couple tablespoonfuls of thick cream be added just before
serving.

Should very sour cider vinegar be used in this recipe, the housewife will, of course, dilute
it with water.

GERMAN BEAN SALAD

Use small green or yellow string-beans, which snap when broken, called by some "snap beans."
String them carefully. (If quite small and tender this should not be necessary.) Rub well with
the hands through several waters. This removes the strong bean taste. Have your kettle half
filled with boiling water on the range over a brisk fire. Put a tablespoon of butter in the
water, add beans by handfuls until all are in and cook until tender. Turn the beans in a colander
to drain. When cool add a chopped onion, salt and pour enough good vinegar over to cover, and
allow to stand two days, when strain vinegar from beans. Boil vinegar, add water if vinegar
is quite sour and pour hot over the beans. Fill quart glass jars with the beans and pour vinegar
over, within an inch of top of jar; pour pure olive oil over top of beans, screw on jar covers
tightly and stand in a cool place until wanted to use. In the winter, when fresh salads were
scarce, Aunt Sarah opened a can of these beans. If they were very sour she poured cold water
over, allowed to stand an hour, drained and added a little fresh olive oil. Every one called
her "bean salat," as the Pennsylvania Germans call it, delicious. The instructions regarding
the preparing and cooking of string beans for salad will answer for beans used as a vegetable,
omitting vinegar, of course. There is a great difference in the manner of cooking vegetables.
Aunt Sarah always added an onion and a sprig of parsley when cooking beans to serve as a vegetable.

Celery should not be allowed to stand in water. To keep fresh until used it should be wrapped
in a piece of damp cheese-cloth and placed in an ice box or cool cellar.

Lettuce should be broken apart, carefully rinsed, and put loosely in a piece of damp cheese-cloth
and placed on ice to crisp before using.

BEVERAGES--COFFEE

Scald coffee pot well before using (never use metal). Place in it five tablespoons ground coffee.
(A good coffee is made from a mixture of two-thirds Java to one-third Mocha.) Beat up with
the ground coffee one whole egg. Should the housewife deem this extravagant, use only the white
of one egg, or peel off the white skin lining inside of egg shells and use. Add three tablespoons
cold water and mix well together. Stand on range to heat; when hot add one quart of freshly-boiled
hot water. Allow coffee to boil to top of coffee pot three times (about eight minutes), pour
over one tablespoon cold water to settle. Stand a few minutes where it will keep hot, not boil.
Place a generous tablespoon of sweet thick cream in each cup and pour coffee through a strainer
over it. Always serve hot.

A larger or smaller amount of coffee may be used, as different brands of coffee vary in strength
and individual tastes differ, but five tablespoons of coffee, not too coarsely ground and not
pulverized, to one quart of water, will be the correct proportions for good coffee. Use cream
and you will have a delicious, rich, brown beverage not possible when milk is used. Better
coffee may be made if whole grains of roasted coffee be bought, reheated in oven and freshly
ground whenever used, rather finely ground but not pulverized. Coffee, when ground for any
length of time, loses strength. If coffee is ground when purchased, always keep it in closely
covered cans until used. Or buy green coffee berries and roast them in oven; when coffee has
been roasted, stir one whole raw egg through the coffee berries; when dry, place in covered
cans, then no egg will be needed when preparing coffee. As a substitute for cream, use yolk
of fresh egg mixed with a couple tablespoonfuls of milk.

COCOA

Mix four tablespoonfuls of cocoa to a smooth paste with one cup of boiling water. Add one more
cup boiling water and boil fifteen or twenty minutes. Add four tablespoonfuls of sugar, then
add 4 cups of hot boiled milk. A few drops of essence of vanilla improves the flavor. Add a
couple tablespoonfuls whipped cream on top of each cup when serving, or, instead of cream,
place a marshmallow in each cup before pouring in cocoa. This quantity is for six cups of cocoa.
Flavor with a few drops of vanilla, if liked, and add whipped cream to each cup when serving.
This is for 2 cups of chocolate.

BOILED WATER

It sometimes becomes necessary to boil drinking water, which usually has a flat, insipid taste.
Do young housewives know it is said that after water has been boiled and when quite cool if
a bottle be half filled and shaken well the water will become aerated, and have the taste of
fresh spring water?

TEA

To make tea always scald the teapot, which should be agate, earthenware or china, never metal.
Always use water that has been freshly boiled, and use it boiling hot. Never, under any circumstances,
boil tea, as tannin is then extracted from the leaves, and the tea will have a bitter taste.
Do not allow tea to stand any length of time unless strained from tea leaves. Use one teaspoon
of tea for each cup, unless liked stronger, when add one extra teaspoon to each three cups
of tea. Some contend that tea is better, if at first a small quantity of boiling water is poured
over the leaves, allowing it to steep three minutes--then pour over the remaining quantity
of boiling water and let stand about four minutes, when it is ready to serve with cream and
sugar, if liked. Should any tea remain after serving do not throw away, but strain at once
from tea leaves and when cool place in a glass jar in refrigerator to be used as iced tea.

ICED TEA

For two quarts of delicious iced tea, place in an agate teapot one generous tablespoon of good
tea (never buy a cheap, inferior grade of tea). Pour over the tea leaves one quart of freshly
boiled, scalding hot water; let stand five minutes, keep hot (not boil), strain from the leaves
into a pitcher, then pour over the tea leaves another quart of hot water, allow it to stand
a few minutes, then strain as before. Add the juice of one lemon and sugar to taste. When cooled
stand on ice and add chipped ice to tumblers when serving.

PUDDINGS

To boil a pudding in a bag, dip the bag, which should be made of thick cotton or linen, in
hot water, dredge the inside well with flour before putting batter into the bag. When the pudding
has boiled a long enough time, dip the bag quickly in cold water, and the pudding will turn
out easily. Allow five large eggs to 1 quart of milk usually to make custard solid enough to
keep its shape when turned from the mold. One teaspoonful of extract will flavor one quart.
Always stand individual cups in a pan partly filled with hot water. Place pan containing custard
cups in a moderate oven and bake slowly forty minutes. Always sift flour over beef suet when
chopping it to be used in puddings. Pour boiling water over Pecans (nuts), allow to stand several
hours. When cracked, the shell may be easily removed, leaving the nuts whole.

Blanch almonds by pouring boiling water over them. Allow them to stand a short time, when the
brown skin may be easily removed. Dry thoroughly by standing in a rather cool oven, then put
in glass jars and they are ready to use. Almonds are used particularly by the Germans in various
ways. One hausfrau adds chopped almonds to cooked oatmeal for her children's breakfast and
they are frequently used as an ingredient; also to decorate the tops of raised cakes. When
dried currants and raisins are bought by the frugal housewife they are quickly washed in cold
water, carefully picked over, then turned on to a sieve to drain. Raisins are seeded, then
spread over pans, placed in a warm oven about 15 minutes, then spread on a plate and allowed
to stand in a dry place for several days. When thoroughly dried place in glass jars and stand
aside until required. Currants or raisins should always be well floured before adding to cake
or pudding. The "German hausfrau" usually serves stewed prunes or raisins with a dish of noodles
or macaroni.

RICE PUDDING

One of the simplest and cheapest of desserts depends partly on the quality of the ingredients
used, but chiefly on the manner of making for its excellence. If prepared according to directions,
you will have a pudding both rich and creamy. Use 1 quart of good sweet milk (do not use either
skimmed milk or water), 3 tablespoonfuls of whole uncoated rice (no more), 2-1/2 tablespoonfuls
of sugar, pinch of salt, vanilla or almond flavoring.

Wash the rice well, mix all together in a pudding dish, bake from 2-1/2 to 3 hours in an oven
with a slow, even heat. When a skin forms on the top of the pudding, carefully stir through
the rice. Do this frequently. This gives the pudding a rich, creamy consistency. When grains
of rice are tender allow pudding to brown over top and serve either hot or cold. Raisins may
be added, if liked, or raisins may be stewed separately and served with the rice, which many
think a great improvement to the pudding. Many think rice pudding should always be flavored
with grated nutmeg. Aunt Sarah, while using nutmeg flavoring in various other dishes, never
used it for her rice pudding.

When mixing a boiled pudding Aunt Sarah frequently substituted a large tablespoon of fine dried
bread crumbs instead of the same amount of flour. She said, "'Twas a small economy," and, she
thought, "the pudding's improved" by the use of bread crumbs.

FRAU SCHMIDT'S APPLE DUMPLINGS

Prepare a syrup of 1 cup sugar, 2 cups of hot water and 1 tablespoon of butter. Pour all into
an agate pudding dish. Add to this syrup 2 heaping cups of pared, sliced sour apples.

Let all come to a boil. For the dumplings, sift together one cup of flour and two even teaspoons
of baking powder. Add a pinch of salt. Mix into a soft dough or batter with about 3/4 cup of
sweet milk or cream. Drop six or eight spoonfuls of this batter into the boiling syrup on top
of apples. Cover closely and cook on top of range twenty minutes without uncovering. Serve
hot. These dumplings should be light as puff balls. Peaches may be substituted for apples and
are delicious.

CARAMEL CUSTARD (AS MARY PREPARED IT)

1 pint of milk. 2 eggs. 1/2 cup granulated sugar.

Melt 1/2 cup of sugar in an iron pan on stove and allow it to brown. Add a part of the hot
milk, stirring constantly until brown sugar is dissolved. Add balance of the pint of hot milk.
Stir all together, then stand aside to cool. When cold, add eggs and bake in oven in custard
cups. Stand cups in hot water while baking.

AUNT SARAH'S BREAD PUDDING

Pour 1 quart of boiling milk over 1-1/2 pints of soft bread crumbs. Put the mixture into a
buttered pudding dish with 1 teaspoonful salt. Cover closely with a plate and let stand about
half an hour. At the end of that time beat into it three eggs, 1 teaspoonful lemon extract,
and beat until perfectly smooth. Bake in a moderately hot oven three-quarters of an hour. Serve
with the following sauce: 6 tablespoonfuls pulverized sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls butter, 1 tablespoonful
lemon juice. Beat all together to a cream; when it is ready to serve. No sugar is needed in
this pudding if this sweet sauce is used.

STEAMED BREAD PUDDING

Place 1 cup of fine dried bread crumbs in a bowl. Pour over the crumbs 2 cups of milk and allow
to stand a short time. Beat together 2 eggs and scant 1/2 cup sugar, add 1 tablespoon of butter.
Mix all the ingredients together thoroughly; then add 1/2 cup of chopped raisins, which have
been seeded and floured. Pour the batter in the well-buttered top part of a double boiler over
hot water. Steam about 2-1/2 to 3 hours. Serve hot with sauce used for cottage pudding, or
serve with sugar and cream.

AN ECONOMICAL BREAD AND APPLE PUDDING

Into a well-buttered pudding dish put a layer of sliced sour apples. On the top of these a
layer of stale bread crumbs with small bits of butter and sugar sprinkled over them, more sliced
apples and bread crumbs, having the crumbs for the top layer. To about three apples use 1 cup
of bread crumbs, 1/2 cup sugar, piece of butter size of walnut and bake in oven until apples
are tender. Serve with cream.

CUP CUSTARDS

1 quart of sweet milk. 5 large eggs. 3 tablespoons sugar. Grated nutmeg or vanilla flavoring.

Scald milk. Beat whites of eggs separately. Add milk when cooled to the beaten yolks. Add sugar
and flavoring. Stir in stiffly beaten whites of eggs, pour into custard cups, stand them in
a dripping pan half filled with boiling water. Stand the pan in a moderate oven about twenty
minutes, or until custard is "set." This quantity fills about eight small custard cups. The
water surrounding the custard cups should not be allowed to boil, but the custard should cook
slowly.

Grate nutmeg thickly over top of each custard before placing in the oven. Scalding the milk
before using improves the custard.

FRAU SCHMIDT'S GRAHAM PUDDING

Sift into a bowl 1/4 cup of pastry flour and 1 teaspoonful of baking powder. Add 1 cup Graham
flour, pinch of salt and 1/2 cup granulated sugar. Mix all thoroughly, then add 1/2 cup of
finely chopped kidney suet. Add 1 cup of seedless raisins mixed with one extra tablespoonful
of white flour. Mix into a batter with 1 cup of sweet milk, to which add yolk of one egg. Lastly,
add the stiffly beaten white of egg. Flavor with either a little grated nutmeg or essence of
vanilla.

Make a strong, unbleached muslin bag 7 by 12 inches. Pour the batter into the bag, which had
been previously dipped in cold water, the inside of the bag sifted over with flour, and tie
bag at top with a string, allowing room for the pudding to swell. Place the bag in the perforated
compartment of a steamer, over boiling water, and boil continuously 1-1/2 hours, or longer,
without removing lid of steamer oftener than absolutely necessary.

Serve Graham Pudding hot with sauce used for "cottage pudding," or serve simply with sugar
and cream, or a sauce may be served composed of 1/2 cup of pulverized sugar, creamed with 1/4
cup of butter. Add 1 tablespoonful of lemon juice or flavor with vanilla. Stand sauce in a
cool place a short time and serve cold on hot pudding.

SPONGE BREAD PUDDING

Place 1-3/4 cups of soft stale (either white or graham) bread crumbs in a pudding dish. Pour
2 cups of hot milk over the crumbs, cover with a plate and allow it to stand about thirty minutes,
then add yolks of 2 eggs, 1/2 teaspoonful of salt, 1 tablespoonful of sugar and grated yellow
rind of orange or lemon for flavoring. Beat the mixture until perfectly smooth, add the stiffly
beaten whites of two eggs. Bake in a moderately hot oven. Serve hot with the following sauce:

SAUCE.

Three large tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar and 1 tablespoonful of butter were beaten together
until smooth and creamy, 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice was added. The sauce, when quite cold,
was served with the warm pudding.

AUNT SARAH'S COTTAGE PUDDING

Cream together 1 cup of sugar, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, 1 egg, white beaten separately,
and added last, 1 cup of sweet milk, pinch of salt, 2 cups of flour, sifted with 2 heaping
teaspoonfuls of Royal baking powder, 1/2 cup of dried currants, well floured. Add stiffly beaten
white of egg. Bake in a small oblong bread pan.

SAUCE.

One cup of milk, 1/2 cup of water, 1 large teaspoonful of butter, a scant tablespoonful of
flour moistened with a small quantity of water, before adding. Sweeten to taste, add 1/2 teaspoonful
of grated nutmeg. Cook all together a few minutes, allow the mixture to partly cool, then stir
in the yolk of one egg; stand on stove to heat, but not to cook. Serve hot over freshly baked,
warm cottage pudding, cut in squares.

APPLE "STRUDEL"

Aunt Sarah pared and quartered six medium-sized tart apples, placed in the bottom of an agate
pudding dish, poured over them one cup of hot water and 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. She allowed
this to stand on the range and cook while she mixed the following dough.

Into a bowl she sifted 1 pint of flour with 2 teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoonful of sugar,
a little salt. Through wise and thoughtful management the Mouth Hygiene Association has shown
that dental clinics for school children are both practical and necessary. This having been demonstrated,
the time has come when the city should take over their direction. She rolled dough out lightly on the bread board, cut vents in the crust
to allow steam to escape and spread it over the top of the dish containing the hot apples;
placed in a hot oven to bake until light brown on top. Serve with sugar and cream.

Aunt Sarah called this "Apple Strudel," but the German recipe for "Apple Strudel," handed down
by her Grandmother, was quite different. An ordinary noodle dough was made, placed on a clean
cloth on the table and rolled as thin as tissue paper. Small bits of butter were scattered
over this, covered with tart apples, thinly sliced, sprinkled with cinnamon, sugar and chopped
raisins, rolled up and baked in the oven until brown on top, basting frequently with a thin
syrup composed of sugar, butter and water.

"LEMON MERINGUE" PUDDING

1 pint of milk. 1/2 cup of sugar 1 cup bread crumbs. Juice and grated rind of one lemon. 2
eggs. 1/3 cup of butter.

3 tablespoonfuls of pulverized sugar used for top. Soak the bread crumbs in milk. Beat the
butter and sugar together. Add yolks of eggs, soaked bread crumbs and grated lemon rind and
about 3/4 of the juice of the lemon. Bake in a buttered pudding dish until firm, then cover
the pudding with a meringue composed of the stiffly beaten whites of eggs, 3 tablespoonfuls
of pulverized sugar and the remaining lemon juice. Place in oven to brown. Stand on ice; serve
cold.

SUET PUDDING

1 cup suet, chopped fine. 1 cup raisins. 1 cup currants. 3 cups flour sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls
baking powder.

Steam 2-1/2 hours, then place in oven two or three minutes. This quantity will partly fill
three empty 1-pound baking powder cans; allowing room to swell. These puddings are equally
as good as when freshly prepared if placed in a steamer a short time before serving until heated
through.

SAUCE FOR SUET PUDDING.

One cup of pulverized sugar and 1 large tablespoonful of butter creamed together. One teaspoonful
of vanilla. Add one whole egg or the yolks of two eggs, or the whites of two eggs, whichever
you happen to have.

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING

1 cup sweet milk. 1 cup chopped suet. 1 cup molasses. 1 cup raisins. 1 teaspoonful soda dissolved
in a little water. 1 teaspoonful salt.

SAUCE FOR PUDDING.

A small quantity of cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, and a very little clove. Flour to make a batter
a little thicker than that of ordinary cake. Steam about 3 hours. This pudding is also inexpensive
and equally as good as the former recipe.

Beat 1 egg very light, add 1 cup brown sugar, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Beat all together until
creamy. Serve at once.

CORNMEAL PUDDING

Scald 1 quart of sweet milk. While hot stir in 3 tablespoonfuls of cornmeal, 3 tablespoonfuls
of flour mixed smooth with a little cold milk. Add 1 tablespoonful of butter. Let cool. Bake
2 hours in a moderate oven. Serve with sugar and cream.

HUCKLEBERRY PUDDING

Two eggs and 1 small cup of granulated sugar creamed together. Four tablespoonfuls of cold
water. Add 1 cup of sifted flour containing 1 teaspoonful of baking powder, and 1 cup of huckleberries,
pitted cherries, or raisins and bake. Serve with milk or any sauce liked. This recipe was given
Mary by a friend, who called it her emergency pudding, as it may be easily and quickly prepared
from canned sour cherries from which liquid has been drained, or any tart fruit, when fresh
fruit is not in season.

TAPIOCA CUSTARD

Four tablespoonfuls of pearl tapioca soaked in cold water over night. The next morning drain
the tapioca, boil 1 quart of sweet milk, beat the yolks of 4 eggs light, stir them into the
tapioca, adding 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Beat all together and gradually add the hot milk.
Return to the fire and stir until it commences to boil. Take from the range and pour in a glass
dish. Flavor with 1 teaspoonful of vanilla. Whip the whites of the eggs to a standing froth
and stir into the cooling pudding When cold stand on ice until ready to serve. One-half cup
of shredded cocoanut may be added if liked.

DELICIOUS BAKED PEACH PUDDING

For the dough place in a bowl 1 pint of flour sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls of Royal baking powder
and a pinch of salt. Cut through this a scant 1/2 cup of butter. Mix this with sufficient sweet
milk to make a soft dough. Some idea of the work of the school nurses in Cleveland may be gained
from the following record of what one nurse did during one day while the survey was in progress.
It represents a typical day's work for a typical nurse and is not
especially unusual. Pinch
dough well together, place in a bake dish. Prepare a syrup of 2 cups of sugar and 1 cup of
water. Let come to a boil, pour around the dumplings and bake a half hour in a moderately hot
oven. These are delicious. The recipe was given Mary by a friend who was an excellent cook.
From this dough may also be baked excellent biscuits.

CARAMEL CUSTARD

