  As a  monarch who should care
more for the outlying colonies he  knows on the map or through the report of his vicegerents,
than for the trunk of his empire under his eyes at home, are  we not more concerned about the
shadowy life that we have in  the hearts of others, and that portion in their thoughts and
fancies which, in a certain far-away sense, belongs to us,  than about the real knot of our
identity - that central  metropolis of self, of which alone we are immediately aware -  or
the diligent service of arteries and veins and  infinitesimal activity of ganglia, which we
know (as we know a  proposition in Euclid) to be the source and substance of the  whole?  At
the death of every one whom we love, some fair and  honourable portion of our existence falls
away, and we are  dislodged from one of these dear provinces; and they are not,  perhaps, the
most fortunate who survive a long series of such  impoverishments, till their life and influence
narrow  gradually into the meagre limit of their own spirits, and  death, when he comes at
last, can destroy them at one blow.

NOTE. - To this essay I must in honesty append a word or  two of qualification; for this is
one of the points on which a  slightly greater age teaches us a slightly different wisdom:

A youth delights in generalities, and keeps loose from  particular obligations; he jogs on
the footpath way, himself  pursuing butterflies, but courteously lending his applause to  the
advance of the human species and the coming of the kingdom  of justice and love.  As he grows
older, he begins to think  more narrowly of man's action in the general, and perhaps more 
arrogantly of his own in the particular.  He has not that same  unspeakable trust in what he
would have done had he been  spared, seeing finally that that would have been little; but 
he has a far higher notion of the blank that he will make by  dying.

And so in the majority of cases, a man who fancies  himself dying, will get cold comfort from
the very youthful  view expressed in this essay.  He, as a living man, has some  to help, some
to love, some to correct; it may be, some to  punish.  These duties cling, not upon humanity,
but upon the  man himself.  It is he, not another, who is one woman's son  and a second woman's
husband and a third woman's father.  That  life which began so small, has now grown, with a
myriad  filaments, into the lives of others.  It is not indispensable;  another will take the
place and shoulder the discharged  responsibility; but the better the man and the nobler his
purposes, the more will he be tempted to regret the extinction  of his powers and the deletion
of his personality.  To have  lived a generation, is not only to have grown at home in that
perplexing medium, but to have assumed innumerable duties.  To  die at such an age, has, for
all but the entirely base,  something of the air of a betrayal.  A man does not only  reflect
upon what he might have done in a future that is never  to be his; but beholding himself so
early a deserter from the  fight, he eats his heart for the good he might have done  already.
To have been so useless and now to lose all hope of  being useful any more - there it is that
death and memory  assail him.  And even if mankind shall go on, founding heroic  cities, practising
heroic virtues, rising steadily from  strength to strength; even if his work shall be fulfilled,
his  friends consoled, his wife remarried by a better than he; how  shall this alter, in one
jot, his estimation of a career which  was his only business in this world, which was so fitfully
pursued, and which is now so ineffectively to end?

CHAPTER VI - EL DORADO

IT seems as if a great deal were attainable in a world  where there are so many marriages and
decisive battles, and  where we all, at certain hours of the day, and with great  gusto and
despatch, stow a portion of victuals finally and  irretrievably into the bag which contains
us.  And it would  seem also, on a hasty view, that the attainment of as much as  possible
was the one goal of man's contentious life.  And yet,  as regards the spirit, this is but a
semblance.  We live in an  ascending scale when we live happily, one thing leading to  another
in an endless series.  There is always a new horizon  for onward-looking men, and although
we dwell on a small  planet, immersed in petty business and not enduring beyond a  brief period
of years, we are so constituted that our hopes  are inaccessible, like stars, and the term
of hoping is  prolonged until the term of life.  To be truly happy is a  question of how we
begin and not of how we end, of what we  want and not of what we have.  Life is only a very
dull and ill- directed theatre unless we have some interests in the piece;  and to those who
have neither art nor science, the world is a  mere arrangement of colours, or a rough footway
where they may  very well break their shins.  Suppose he could take one meal  so compact and
comprehensive that he should never hunger any  more; suppose him, at a glance, to take in all
the features of  the world and allay the desire for knowledge; suppose him to  do the like
in any province of experience - would not that man  be in a poor way for amusement ever after?

One who goes touring on foot with a single volume in his  knapsack reads with circumspection,
pausing often to reflect,  and often laying the book down to contemplate the landscape or 
the prints in the inn parlour; for he fears to come to an end  of his entertainment, and be
left companionless on the last  stages of his journey.  A young fellow recently finished the
works of Thomas Carlyle, winding up, if we remember aright,  with the ten note-books upon Frederick
the Great.  "What!"  cried the young fellow, in consternation, "is there no more  Carlyle?
Am I left to the daily papers?"  A more celebrated  instance is that of Alexander, who wept
bitterly because he  had no more worlds to subdue.  And when Gibbon had finished  the DECLINE
AND FALL, he had only a few moments of joy; and it  was with a "sober melancholy" that he parted
from his labours.

Happily we all shoot at the moon with ineffectual arrows;  our hopes are set on inaccessible
El Dorado; we come to an end  of nothing here below.  Interests are only plucked up to sow
themselves again, like mustard.  You would think, when the  child was born, there would be
an end to trouble; and yet it  is only the beginning of fresh anxieties; and when you have
seen it through its teething and its education, and at last  its marriage, alas! it is only
to have new fears, new  quivering sensibilities, with every day; and the health of  your children's
children grows as touching a concern as that  of your own.

"Of making books there is no end," complained the  Preacher; and did not perceive how highly
he was praising  letters as an occupation.

CHAPTER VII - THE ENGLISH ADMIRALS

"Whether it be wise in men to do such actions or no, I am  sure it is so in States to honour
them." - SIR WILLIAM TEMPLE.

THERE is one story of the wars of Rome which I have  always very much envied for England. 
Germanicus was going  down at the head of the legions into a dangerous river - on  the opposite
bank the woods were full of Germans - when there  flew out seven great eagles which seemed
to marshal the Romans  on their way; they did not pause or waver, but disappeared  into the
forest where the enemy lay concealed.  "Forward!"  cried Germanicus, with a fine rhetorical
inspiration,  "Forward! and follow the Roman birds."  It would be a very  heavy spirit that
did not give a leap at such a signal, and a  very timorous one that continued to have any doubt
of success.   To appropriate the eagles as fellow-countrymen was to make  imaginary allies
of the forces of nature; the Roman Empire and  its military fortunes, and along with these
the prospects of  those individual Roman legionaries now fording a river in  Germany, looked
altogether greater and more hopeful.  It is a  kind of illusion easy to produce.  A particular
shape of  cloud, the appearance of a particular star, the holiday of  some particular saint,
anything in short to remind the  combatants of patriotic legends or old successes, may be 
enough to change the issue of a pitched battle; for it gives  to the one party a feeling that
Right and the larger interests  are with them.

If an Englishman wishes to have such a feeling, it must  be about the sea.  The lion is nothing
to us; he has not been  taken to the hearts of the people, and naturalised as an  English emblem.
We know right well that a lion would fall  foul of us as grimly as he would of a Frenchman
or a Moldavian  Jew, and we do not carry him before us in the smoke of battle.   But the sea
is our approach and bulwark; it has been the scene  of our greatest triumphs and dangers; and
we are accustomed in  lyrical strains to claim it as our own.  The prostrating  experiences
of foreigners between Calais and Dover have always  an agreeable side to English prepossessions.
A man from  Bedfordshire, who does not know one end of the ship from the  other until she begins
to move, swaggers among such persons  with a sense of hereditary nautical experience.  To suppose
yourself endowed with natural parts for the sea because you  are the countryman of Blake and
mighty Nelson, is perhaps just  as unwarrantable as to imagine Scotch extraction a sufficient
guarantee that you will look well in a kilt.  But the feeling  is there, and seated beyond
the reach of argument.  We should  consider ourselves unworthy of our descent if we did not
share  the arrogance of our progenitors, and please ourselves with  the pretension that the
sea is English.  Even where it is  looked upon by the guns and battlements of another nation
we  regard it as a kind of English cemetery, where the bones of  our seafaring fathers take
their rest until the last trumpet;  for I suppose no other nation has lost as many ships, or
sent  as many brave fellows to the bottom.

There is nowhere such a background for heroism as the  noble, terrifying, and picturesque conditions
of some of our  sea fights.  Hawke's battle in the tempest, and Aboukir at the  moment when
the French Admiral blew up, reach the limit of  what is imposing to the imagination.  And our
naval annals owe  some of their interest to the fantastic and beautiful  appearance of old
warships and the romance that invests the  sea and everything sea-going in the eyes of English
lads on a  half-holiday at the coast.  Nay, and what we know of the  misery between decks enhances
the bravery of what was done by  giving it something for contrast.  We like to know that these
bold and honest fellows contrived to live, and to keep bold  and honest, among absurd and vile
surroundings.  No reader can  forget the description of the THUNDER in RODERICK RANDOM: the
disorderly tyranny; the cruelty and dirt of officers and men;  deck after deck, each with some
new object of offence; the  hospital, where the hammocks were huddled together with but  fourteen
inches space for each; the cockpit, far under water,  where, "in an intolerable stench," the
spectacled steward kept  the accounts of the different messes; and the canvas  enclosure, six
feet square, in which Morgan made flip and  salmagundi, smoked his pipe, sang his Welsh songs,
and swore  his queer Welsh imprecations.  There are portions of this  business on board the
THUNDER over which the reader passes  lightly and hurriedly, like a traveller in a malarious
country.  It is easy enough to understand the opinion of Dr.  Johnson: "Why, sir," he said,
"no man will be a sailor who has  contrivance enough to get himself into a jail."  You would
fancy any one's spirit would die out under such an  accumulation of darkness, noisomeness,
and injustice, above  all when he had not come there of his own free will, but under  the cutlasses
and bludgeons of the press-gang.  But perhaps a  watch on deck in the sharp sea air put a man
on his mettle  again; a battle must have been a capital relief; and prize- money, bloodily
earned and grossly squandered, opened the  doors of the prison for a twinkling.  Somehow or
other, at  least, this worst of possible lives could not overlie the  spirit and gaiety of
our sailors; they did their duty as  though they had some interest in the fortune of that country
which so cruelly oppressed them, they served their guns  merrily when it came to fighting,
and they had the readiest  ear for a bold, honourable sentiment, of any class of men the  world
ever produced.

Most men of high destinies have high-sounding names.  Pym  and Habakkuk may do pretty well,
but they must not think to  cope with the Cromwells and Isaiahs.  And you could not find a
better case in point than that of the English Admirals.  Drake  and Rooke and Hawke are picked
names for men of execution.   Frobisher, Rodney, Boscawen, Foul-Weather, Jack Byron, are all
good to catch the eye in a page of a naval history.   Cloudesley Shovel is a mouthful of quaint
and sounding  syllables.  Benbow has a bulldog quality that suits the man's  character, and
it takes us back to those English archers who  were his true comrades for plainness, tenacity,
and pluck.   Raleigh is spirited and martial, and signifies an act of bold  conduct in the
field.  It is impossible to judge of Blake or  Nelson, no names current among men being worthy
of such  heroes.  But still it is odd enough, and very appropriate in  this connection, that
the latter was greatly taken with his  Sicilian title.  "The signification, perhaps, pleased
him,"  says Southey; "Duke of Thunder was what in Dahomey would have  been called a STRONG
NAME; it was to a sailor's taste, and  certainly to no man could it be more applicable."  Admiral
in  itself is one of the most satisfactory of distinctions; it has  a noble sound and a very
proud history; and Columbus thought  so highly of it, that he enjoined his heirs to sign themselves
by that title as long as the house should last.

But it is the spirit of the men, and not their names,  that I wish to speak about in this paper.
That spirit is  truly English; they, and not Tennyson's cotton-spinners or Mr.  D'Arcy Thompson's
Abstract Bagman, are the true and typical  Englishmen.  There may be more HEAD of bagmen in
the country,  but human beings are reckoned by number only in political  constitutions.  And
the Admirals are typical in the full force  of the word.  They are splendid examples of virtue,
indeed,  but of a virtue in which most Englishmen can claim a moderate  share; and what we
admire in their lives is a sort of  apotheosis of ourselves.  Almost everybody in our land,
except  humanitarians and a few persons whose youth has been depressed  by exceptionally aesthetic
surroundings, can understand and  sympathise with an Admiral or a prize-fighter.  I do not
wish  to bracket Benbow and Tom Cribb; but, depend upon it, they are  practically bracketed
for admiration in the minds of many  frequenters of ale-houses.  If you told them about Germanicus
and the eagles, or Regulus going back to Carthage, they would  very likely fall asleep; but
tell them about Harry Pearce and  Jem Belcher, or about Nelson and the Nile, and they put down
their pipes to listen.  I have by me a copy of BOXIANA, on the  fly-leaves of which a youthful
member of the fancy kept a  chronicle of remarkable events and an obituary of great men.  
Here we find piously chronicled the demise of jockeys,  watermen, and pugilists - Johnny Moore,
of the Liverpool Prize  Ring; Tom Spring, aged fifty-six; "Pierce Egan, senior, writer  OF
BOXIANA and other sporting works" - and among all these,  the Duke of Wellington!  If Benbow
had lived in the time of  this annalist, do you suppose his name would not have been  added
to the glorious roll?  In short, we do not all feel  warmly towards Wesley or Laud, we cannot
all take pleasure in  PARADISE LOST; but there are certain common sentiments and  touches of
nature by which the whole nation is made to feel  kinship.  A little while ago everybody, from
Hazlitt and John  Wilson down to the imbecile creature who scribbled his  register on the fly-leaves
of BOXIANA, felt a more or less  shamefaced satisfaction in the exploits of prize-fighters.
And the exploits of the Admirals are popular to the same  degree, and tell in all ranks of
society.  Their sayings and  doings stir English blood like the sound of a trumpet; and if
the Indian Empire, the trade of London, and all the outward  and visible ensigns of our greatness
should pass away, we  should still leave behind us a durable monument of what we  were in these
sayings and doings of the English Admirals.

Duncan, lying off the Texel with his own flagship, the  VENERABLE, and only one other vessel,
heard that the whole  Dutch fleet was putting to sea.  He told Captain Hotham to  anchor alongside
of him in the narrowest part of the channel,  and fight his vessel till she sank.  "I have
taken the depth  of the water," added he, "and when the VENERABLE goes down, my  flag will
still fly."  And you observe this is no naked Viking  in a prehistoric period; but a Scotch
member of Parliament,  with a smattering of the classics, a telescope, a cocked hat  of great
size, and flannel underclothing.  In the same spirit,  Nelson went into Aboukir with six colours
flying; so that even  if five were shot away, it should not be imagined he had  struck.  He
too must needs wear his four stars outside his  Admiral's frock, to be a butt for sharp-shooters.
"In honour  I gained them," he said to objectors, adding with sublime  illogicality, "in honour
I will die with them."  Captain  Douglas of the ROYAL OAK, when the Dutch fired his vessel
in  the Thames, sent his men ashore, but was burned along with her  himself rather than desert
his post without orders.  Just  then, perhaps the Merry Monarch was chasing a moth round the
supper-table with the ladies of his court.  When Raleigh  sailed into Cadiz, and all the forts
and ships opened fire on  him at once, he scorned to shoot a gun, and made answer with a  flourish
of insulting trumpets.  I like this bravado better  than the wisest dispositions to insure
victory; it comes from  the heart and goes to it.  God has made nobler heroes, but he  never
made a finer gentleman than Walter Raleigh.  And as our  Admirals were full of heroic superstitions,
and had a  strutting and vainglorious style of fight, so they discovered  a startling eagerness
for battle, and courted war like a  mistress.  When the news came to Essex before Cadiz that
the  attack had been decided, he threw his hat into the sea.  It is  in this way that a schoolboy
hears of a half-holiday; but this  was a bearded man of great possessions who had just been
allowed to risk his life.  Benbow could not lie still in his  bunk after he had lost his leg;
he must be on deck in a basket  to direct and animate the fight.  I said they loved war like
a  mistress; yet I think there are not many mistresses we should  continue to woo under similar
circumstances.  Trowbridge went  ashore with the CULLODEN, and was able to take no part in
the  battle of the Nile.  "The merits of that ship and her gallant  captain," wrote Nelson
to the Admiralty, "are too well known  to benefit by anything I could say.  Her misfortune
was great  in getting aground, WHILE HER MORE FORTUNATE COMPANIONS WERE  IN THE FULL TIDE OF
HAPPINESS."  This is a notable expression,  and depicts the whole great-hearted, big-spoken
stock of the  English Admirals to a hair.  It was to be "in the full tide of  happiness" for
Nelson to destroy five thousand five hundred  and twenty-five of his fellow-creatures, and
have his own  scalp torn open by a piece of langridge shot.  Hear him again  at Copenhagen:
"A shot through the mainmast knocked the  splinters about; and he observed to one of his officers
with a  smile, `It is warm work, and this may be the last to any of us  at any moment;' and
then, stopping short at the gangway,  added, with emotion, `BUT, MARK YOU - I WOULD NOT BE
ELSEWHERE  FOR THOUSANDS.'"

I must tell one more story, which has lately been made  familiar to us all, and that in one
of the noblest ballads in  the English language.  I had written my tame prose abstract, I 
shall beg the reader to believe, when I had no notion that the  sacred bard designed an immortality
for Greenville.  Sir  Richard Greenville was Vice-Admiral to Lord Thomas Howard, and  lay off
the Azores with the English squadron in 1591.  He was  a noted tyrant to his crew: a dark,
bullying fellow  apparently; and it is related of him that he would chew and  swallow wineglasses,
by way of convivial levity, till the  blood ran out of his mouth.  When the Spanish fleet of
fifty  sail came within sight of the English, his ship, the REVENGE,  was the last to weigh
anchor, and was so far circumvented by  the Spaniards, that there were but two courses open
- either  to turn her back upon the enemy or sail through one of his  squadrons.  The first
alternative Greenville dismissed as  dishonourable to himself, his country, and her Majesty's
ship.   Accordingly, he chose the latter, and steered into the Spanish  armament.  Several
vessels he forced to luff and fall under  his lee; until, about three o'clock of the afternoon,
a great  ship of three decks of ordnance took the wind out of his  sails, and immediately boarded.
Thence-forward, and all night  long, the REVENGE, held her own single-handed against the  Spaniards.
As one ship was beaten off, another took its  place.  She endured, according to Raleigh's computation,
"eight hundred shot of great artillery, besides many assaults  and entries."  By morning the
powder was spent, the pikes all  broken, not a stick was standing, "nothing left overhead 
either for flight or defence;" six feet of water in the hold;  almost all the men hurt; and
Greenville himself in a dying  condition.  To bring them to this pass, a fleet of fifty sail
had been mauling them for fifteen hours, the ADMIRAL OF THE  HULKS and the ASCENSION of Seville
had both gone down  alongside, and two other vessels had taken refuge on shore in  a sinking
state.  In Hawke's words, they had "taken a great  deal of drubbing."  The captain and crew
thought they had done  about enough; but Greenville was not of this opinion; he gave  orders
to the master gunner, whom he knew to be a fellow after  his own stamp, to scuttle the REVENGE
where she lay.  The  others, who were not mortally wounded like the Admiral,  interfered with
some decision, locked the master gunner in his  cabin, after having deprived him of his sword,
for he  manifested an intention to kill himself if he were not to sink  the ship; and sent
to the Spaniards to demand terms.  These  were granted.  The second or third day after, Greenville
died  of his wounds aboard the Spanish flagship, leaving his  contempt upon the "traitors and
dogs" who had not chosen to do  as he did, and engage fifty vessels, well found and fully 
manned, with six inferior craft ravaged by sickness and short  of stores.  He at least, he
said, had done his duty as he was  bound to do, and looked for everlasting fame.

Some one said to me the other day that they considered  this story to be of a pestilent example.
I am not inclined to  imagine we shall ever be put into any practical difficulty  from a superfluity
of Greenvilles.  And besides, I demur to  the opinion.  The worth of such actions is not a
thing to be  decided in a quaver of sensibility or a flush of righteous  commonsense.  The
man who wished to make the ballads of his  country, coveted a small matter compared to what
Richard  Greenville accomplished.  I wonder how many people have been  inspired by this mad
story, and how many battles have been  actually won for England in the spirit thus engendered.
It is  only with a measure of habitual foolhardiness that you can be  sure, in the common run
of men, of courage on a reasonable  occasion.  An army or a fleet, if it is not led by quixotic
fancies, will not be led far by terror of the Provost Marshal.   Even German warfare, in addition
to maps and telegraphs, is  not above employing the WACHT AM RHEIN.  Nor is it only in the
profession of arms that such stories may do good to a man.  In  this desperate and gleeful
fighting, whether it is Greenville  or Benbow, Hawke or Nelson, who flies his colours in the
ship,  we see men brought to the test and giving proof of what we  call heroic feeling.  Prosperous
humanitarians tell me, in my  club smoking-room, that they are a prey to prodigious heroic
feelings, and that it costs them more nobility of soul to do  nothing in particular, than would
carry on all the wars, by  sea or land, of bellicose humanity.  It may very well be so,  and
yet not touch the point in question.  For what I desire is  to see some of this nobility brought
face to face with me in  an inspiriting achievement.  A man may talk smoothly over a  cigar
in my club smoking-room from now to the Day of Judgment,  without adding anything to mankind's
treasury of illustrious  and encouraging examples.

There is another question which seems bound up in this;  and that is Temple's problem: whether
it was wise of Douglas  to burn with the ROYAL OAK? and by implication, what it was  that made
him do so?  Many will tell you it was the desire of  fame.

"To what do Caesar and Alexander owe the infinite  grandeur of their renown, but to fortune?
How many men has  she extinguished in the beginning of their progress, of whom  we have no
knowledge; who brought as much courage to the work  as they, if their adverse hap had not cut
them off in the  first sally of their arms?  Amongst so many and so great  dangers, I do not
remember to have anywhere read that Caesar  was ever wounded; a thousand have fallen in less
dangers than  the least of these he went through.  A great many brave  actions must be expected
to be performed without witness, for  one that comes to some notice.  A man is not always at
the top  of a breach, or at the head of an army in the sight of his  general, as upon a platform.
He is often surprised between  the hedge and the ditch; he must run the hazard of his life
against a henroost; he must dislodge four rascally musketeers  out of a barn; he must prick
out single from his party, as  necessity arises, and meet adventures alone."

Thus far Montaigne, in a characteristic essay on GLORY.   Where death is certain, as in the
cases of Douglas or  Greenville, it seems all one from a personal point of view.   The man
who lost his life against a henroost, is in the same  pickle with him who lost his life against
a fortified place of  the first order.  Whether he has missed a peerage or only the  corporal's
stripes, it is all one if he has missed them and is  quietly in the grave.  It was by a hazard
that we learned the  conduct of the four marines of the WAGER.  There was no room  for these
brave fellows in the boat, and they were left behind  upon the island to a certain death. 
They were soldiers, they  said, and knew well enough it was their business to die; and  as
their comrades pulled away, they stood upon the beach, gave  three cheers, and cried "God bless
the king!"  Now, one or two  of those who were in the boat escaped, against all likelihood,
to tell the story.  That was a great thing for us; but surely  it cannot, by any possible twisting
of human speech, be  construed into anything great for the marines.  You may  suppose, if you
like, that they died hoping their behaviour  would not be forgotten; or you may suppose they
thought  nothing on the subject, which is much more likely.  What can  be the signification
of the word "fame" to a private of  marines, who cannot read and knows nothing of past history
beyond the reminiscences of his grandmother?  But whichever  supposition you make, the fact
is unchanged.  They died while  the question still hung in the balance; and I suppose their
bones were already white, before the winds and the waves and  the humour of Indian chiefs and
Spanish governors had decided  whether they were to be unknown and useless martyrs or  honoured
heroes.  Indeed, I believe this is the lesson: if it  is for fame that men do brave actions,
they are only silly  fellows after all.  But there is another theory of the personal  motive
in these fine sayings and doings, which I believe to be  true and wholesome.  If the Admirals
courted war like  a mistress; if, as the drum beat to quarters, the sailors came  gaily out
of the forecastle, - it is because a fight is a  period of multiplied and intense experiences,
and, by Nelson's  computation, worth "thousands" to any one who has a heart  under his jacket.
If the marines of the WAGER gave three  cheers and cried "God bless the king," it was because
they  liked to do things nobly for their own satisfaction.  They  were giving their lives,
there was no help for that; and they  made it a point of self-respect to give them handsomely.
And  there were never four happier marines in God's world than  these four at that moment.
If it was worth thousands to be at  the Baltic, I wish a Benthamite arithmetician would calculate
how much it was worth to be one of these four marines; or how  much their story is worth to
each of us who read it.  And mark  you, undemonstrative men would have spoiled the situation.
The finest action is the better for a piece of purple.  If the  soldiers of the BIRKENHEAD
had not gone down in line, or these  marines of the WAGER had walked away simply into the island,
like plenty of other brave fellows in the like circumstances,  my Benthamite arithmetician
would assign a far lower value to  the two stories.  We have to desire a grand air in our heroes;
and such a knowledge of the human stage as shall make them put  the dots on their own i's,
and leave us in no suspense as to  when they mean to be heroic.  And hence, we should  congratulate
ourselves upon the fact that our Admirals were  not only great-hearted but big-spoken.

The heroes themselves say, as often as not, that fame is  their object; but I do not think
that is much to the purpose.   People generally say what they have been taught to say; that
was the catchword they were given in youth to express the aims  of their way of life; and men
who are gaining great battles  are not likely to take much trouble in reviewing their  sentiments
and the words in which they were told to express  them.  Almost every person, if you will believe
himself, holds  a quite different theory of life from the one on which he is  patently acting.
I suspect that is why; and I  suspect it is at least ten per cent of why Lord Beaconsfield
and Mr. Gladstone have debated so much in the House of  Commons, and why Burnaby rode to Khiva
the other day, and why  the Admirals courted war like a mistress.

CHAPTER VIII - SOME PORTRAITS BY RAEBURN

THROUGH the initiative of a prominent citizen, Edinburgh  has been in possession, for some
autumn weeks, of a gallery of  paintings of singular merit and interest.  They were exposed
in the apartments of the Scotch Academy; and filled those who  are accustomed to visit the
annual spring exhibition, with  astonishment and a sense of incongruity.  Instead of the too
common purple sunsets, and pea-green fields, and distances  executed in putty and hog's lard,
he beheld, looking down upon  him from the walls of room after room, a whole army of wise,
grave, humorous, capable, or beautiful countenances, painted  simply and strongly by a man
of genuine instinct.  It was a  complete act of the Human Drawing-Room Comedy.  Lords and 
ladies, soldiers and doctors, hanging judges, and heretical  divines, a whole generation of
good society was resuscitated;  and the Scotchman of to-day walked about among the Scotchmen
of two generations ago.  The moment was well chosen, neither  too late nor too early.  The
people who sat for these pictures  are not yet ancestors, they are still relations.  They are
not  yet altogether a part of the dusty past, but occupy a middle  distance within cry of our
affections.  The little child who  looks wonderingly on his grandfather's watch in the picture,
is now the veteran Sheriff EMERITIS of Perth.  And I hear a  story of a lady who returned the
other day to Edinburgh, after  an absence of sixty years: "I could see none of my old  friends,"
she said, "until I went into the Raeburn Gallery,  and found them all there."

