"Yonder is a man with his back toward Zion, and he is coming to meet us. So he drew nearer
and nearer, and at last came up to them.  His name was Atheist, and he asked them whither they
were going?  We are going to the Mount Zion, they answered.  Then Atheist fell into a very
great laughter. What is the meaning of your laughter? they asked.  I laugh to see what ignorant
persons you are to take upon you so tedious a journey, and yet are like to have nothing but
your travel for your pains.  Why, man?  Do you think we shall not be received? they said. 
Received!  There is no such place as you dream of in all this world.  But there is in the world
to come, replied Christian.  When I was at home, Atheist went on, in mine own country I heard
as you now affirm, and, from that hearing, I went out to see, and have been seeking this city
you speak of this twenty years, but find no more of it than I did the first day I set out.
And, still laughing, he went his way."

Having begun to tell us about Atheist, why did Bunyan not tell us more? We would have thanked
him warmly to-night for a little more about this unhappy man.  Why did the dreamer not take
another eight or ten pages in order to tell us, as only he could have told us, how this man
that is now Atheist had spent his past twenty years seeking Mount Zion?  Those precious unwritten
pages are now buried in John Strudwick's vault in Bunhill Fields, and no other man has arisen
able to handle Bunyan's biographic pen.  Had Bunyan but put off the entrance of Christian and
Hopeful into the city till he had told us something more about the twenty years it had taken
this once earnest pilgrim to become an atheist, how valuable an interpolation that would have
been!  What was it that made this man to set out so long ago for the Celestial City?  What
was it that so stoutly determined him to leave off all his old companions and turn his back
on the sweet refreshments of his youth?  How did he do at the Slough of Despond?  Did he come
that way?  What about the Wicket Gate, and the House Beautiful, and the Interpreter's House,
and the Delectable Mountains?  What men, and especially what women, did he meet and converse
with on his way?  What were his fortunes, and what his misfortunes?  How much did he lay out
at Vanity Fair, and on what?  At what point of his twenty years' way did his youthful faith
begin to shake, and his youthful love begin to become lukewarm?  And what was it that at last
made him quite turn round his back on Zion and his face to his own country?  I cannot forgive
Bunyan to-night for not telling us the story of Atheist's conversion, his pilgrimage, and his
apostasy in full.

At the same time, though it cannot be denied that Bunyan has lost at this point a great opportunity
for his genius and for our advantage,--at the same time, he undoubtedly did a very courageous
thing in introducing Atheist at all; and, especially, in introducing him to us and making him
laugh so loudly at us when we are on the very borders of the land of Beulah.  A less courageous
writer, and a writer less sure of his ground, would have left out Atheist altogether; or, if
he had felt constrained to introduce him, would have introduced him at any other period of
our history rather than at this period.  Under other hands than Bunyan's we would have met
with this mocking reprobate just outside the City of Destruction; or, perhaps, among the booths
of Vanity Fair; or, indeed, anywhere but where we now meet him.  And, that our greater-minded
author does not let loose the laughter of Atheist upon us till we are almost out of the body
is a stroke of skill and truth and boldness that makes us glad indeed that we possess such
a sketch at Bunyan's hand at all, all too abrupt and all too short as that sketch is.  In the
absence, then, of a full-length and finished portrait of Atheist, we must be content to fall
back on some of the reflections and lessons that the mere mention of his name, the spot he
passes us on, and the ridicule of his laughter, all taken together, awaken in our minds.  One
rapid stroke of such a brush as that of John Bunyan conveys more to us than a full-length likeness,
with all the strongest colours, of any other artist would be able to do.

1.  One thing the life-long admiration of John Bunyan's books has helped to kindle and burn
into my mind and my imagination is this: What a universe of things is the heart of man!  Were
there nothing else in the heart of man but all the places and all the persons and all the adventures
that John Bunyan saw in his sleep, what a world that would open up in all our bosoms!  All
the pilgrims, good and bad--they, or the seed and possibility of them all, are all in your
heart and in mine.  All the cities, all the roads that lead from one city to another, with
all the paths and all the by-paths,--all the adventures, experiences, endurances, conflicts,
overthrows, victories,--all are within us and never are to be seen anywhere else.  Heaven and
hell, God and the devil, life and death, salvation and damnation, time and eternity, all are
within us.  "There is no Mount Zion in all this world," bellowed out this blinded fool.  "No;
I know that quite well," quickly responded Christian; "but there is in the world to come."
He would have said the whole truth, and he would have been entirely right, had he taken time
to add, "and in the world within."  "And more," he should have said to Atheist, "much more
in the world within than in any possible world to come."  The Celestial City, every Sabbath-school
child begins gradually to understand, is not up among the stars; till, as he grows older, he
takes in the whole of the New Testament truth that the kingdom of heaven is wholly within him.
You all understand, my brethren, that were we swept in a moment up to the furthest star, by
all that infinite flight we would not be one hair's-breadth nearer the heavenly city.  That
is not the right direction to that city.  The city whose builder and maker is God lies in quite
a different direction from that altogether; not by ascending up beyond sun and moon and stars
to all eternity would we ever get one hand's-breadth nearer God.  But if you deny yourself
sleep to- night till you have read His book and bowed your knees in His closet; if, for His
sake, you deny yourself to-morrow when you are eating and drinking; as often as you say, "Not
my will, but Thine be done"; as often as you humble yourself when others exalt themselves;
as often as you refuse praise and despise blame for His sake; as often as you forgive before
God your enemy, and rejoice with your friend,--Behold! the kingdom of heaven, with its King
and all His shining court of angels and saints is around you;--is, indeed, within you.  No;
there is no such place. Heaven is not in any place: heaven is in a person where it is at all;
and you are that person as often as you put off an earthly and put on a heavenly mind.  That
mocking reprobate, with his secret heart all through those twenty years hungering after the
lusts of his youth,--he was wholly right in what he so unintentionally said; there is no such
place in all this world.  And, even if there were, it would spue him and all who are like him
out of its mouth.

2.  And, then, in all that universe of things that fills that bottomless pit and shoreless
sea the human heart, there is nothing deeper down in it than just its deep and unsearchable
atheism.  The very deepest thing, and the most absolutely inexpugnable thing, in every human
heart is its theism; its original and inextinguishable convictions about itself and about God.
But, all but as deep as that--for all around that, and all over that, and soaking all through
that--there lies a superincumbent mass of sullen, brutish, malignant atheism.  Nay, so deep
down is the atheism of all our hearts, that it is only one here and another there of the holiest
and the ripest of God's saints who ever get down to it, or even get at their deepest within
sight of it.  Robert Fleming tells us about Robert Bruce, that he was a man that had much inward
exercise about his own personal case, and had been often assaulted anent that great foundation
truth, if there was a God.  And often, when he had come up to the pulpit, after being some
time silent, which was his usual way, he would say, "I think it is a great matter to believe
there is a God"; telling the people that it was another thing to believe that than they judged.
But it was also known to his friends what extraordinary confirmations he had from the Lord
therein, and what near familiarity he did attain to in his heart-converse with God: Yea, truly,
adds Fleming, some things I have had thereanent that seem so strange and marvellous that I
forbear to set them down.  And in Halyburton's priceless Memoirs we read: "Hereby I was brought
into a doubt about the truths of religion, the being of God, and things eternal.  Whenever
I was in dangers or straits and would build upon these things, a suspicion secretly haunted
me, what if the things are not?  This perplexity was somewhat eased while one day I was reading
how Robert Bruce was shaken about the being of God, and how at length he came to the fullest
satisfaction."  And in another place: "Some days ago reading Ex. ix. and x., and finding this,
'That ye may know that I am God' frequently repeated, and elsewhere in passages innumerable,
as the end of God's manifesting Himself in His word and works; I observe from it that atheism
is deeply rooted even in the Lord's people, seeing they need to be taught this so much.  The
great difficulty that the whole of revelation has to grapple with is atheism; its whole struggle
is to recover man to his first impressions of a God.  This one point comprehends the whole
of man's recovery, just as atheism is the whole of man's apostasy."  And, again, in another
part of the same great book, Halyburton says: "I must observe, also, the wise providence of
God, that the greatest difficulties that lie against religion are hid from atheists.  All the
objections I meet with in their writings are not nearly so subtle as those which are often
suggested to myself.  The reason of this is obvious from the very nature of the thing--such
persons take not a near-hand view of religion, and while persons stand at a distance neither
are the advantages nor the difficulties of religion discerned."

   "Fool, said my Muse to me, look in thy heart and write."

And John Bunyan looked into his own deep and holy heart, and out of it he composed this incident
of Atheist.

3.  It may not be out of place at this point to look for a moment at some of the things that
agitate, stir up, and make the secret atheism of our hearts to fluctuate and overflow.  Butler
has a fine passage in which he points out that it is only the higher class of minds that are
tempted with speculative difficulties such as those were that assaulted Christian and Hopeful
after they were so near the end of their journey.  Coarse, commonplace, and mean-minded men
have their probation appointed them among coarse, mean, and commonplace things; whereas enlightened,
enlarged, and elevated men are exercised after the manner of Robert Bruce, Thomas Halyburton,
John Bunyan, and Butler himself.  "The chief temptations of the generality of the world are
the ordinary motives to injustice or unrestrained pleasure; but there are other persons without
this shallowness of temper; persons of a deeper sense as to what is invisible and future. 
Now, these persons have their moral discipline set them in that high region."  The profound
bishop means that while their appetites and their tempers are the stumbling-stones of the most
of men, the difficult problems of natural and revealed and experimental religion are the test
and the triumph of other men.  As we have just seen in the men mentioned above.  Students,
whose temptations lie fully as much in their intellects as in their senses, should buy (for
a few pence) Halyburton's Memoirs.  "With Halyburton," says Dr. John Duncan, "I feel great
intellectual congruity.  Halyburton was naturally a sceptic, but God gave that sceptic great
faith."

Then again, what Atheist calls the "tediousness" of the journey has undoubtedly a great hand
in making some half-in-earnest men sceptics, if not scoffers.  Many of us here to-night who
can never now take this miserable man's way out of the tedium of the Christian life, yet most
bitterly feel it.  Whether that tedium is inherent in that life, and inevitable to such men
as we are who are attempting that life; how far that feature belongs to the very essence of
the pilgrim life, and how far we import our own tedium into the pilgrimage; the fact remains
as Atheist puts it.  As Atheist in this book says, so the Atheist who is in our hearts often
says: We are like to have nothing for all our pains but a lifetime of tedious travel.  Yes,
wherever the blame lies, there can be no doubt about it, that what this hilarious scoffer calls
the tediousness of the way is but a too common experience among many of those who, tediousness
and all, will still cleave fast to it and will never leave it.

Then, again, great trials in life, great straits, dark and too-long-continued providences,
prayer unanswered, or not yet answered in the way we dictate, bad men and bad causes growing
like a green bay tree, and good men and good work languishing and dying; these things, and
many more things such as these, of which this world of faith and patience is full, prove quite
too much for some men till they give themselves up to a state of mind that is nothing better
than atheism.  "My evidences and my certainty," says Halyburton, "were not answerable to the
weight I was compelled to lay upon them."  A figure which Goodwin in his own tender and graphic
way takes up thus: "Set pins in a wall and fix them in ever so loosely, yet, if you hang nothing
upon them they will seem to stand firm; but hang a heavy weight upon them, or even give them
the least jog as you pass, and the whole thing will suddenly come down.  The wall is God's
word, the slack pin is our faith, and the weight and the jog are the heavy burdens and the
sudden shocks of life, and down our hearts go, wall and pin and suspended vessel and all."

When the church and her ministers, when the Scriptures and their anomalies, and when the faults
and failings of Christian men are made the subject of mockery and laughter, the reverence,
the fear, the awe, the respect that all enter so largely into religion, and especially into
the religion of young people, is too easily destroyed; and not seldom the first seeds of practical
and sometimes of speculative atheism are thus sown.  The mischief that has been done by mockery
and laughter to the souls, especially of the young and the inexperienced, only the great day
will fully disclose.

And then, two men of great weight and authority with us, tell us what we who are ministers
would have found out without them: this, namely, that the greatest atheists are they who are
ever handling holy things without feeling them.

"Is it true," said Christian to Hopeful, his fellow, "is it true what this man hath said?"
Many a deep and powerful passage has Butler composed on that thesis which Hopeful here supplies
him with; and many a brilliant sermon has Newman preached on that same text till he has made
our "predispositions to faith" a fruitful and an ever fresh commonplace to hundreds of preachers.
Yes; the best bulwark of faith is a good and honest heart.  To such a happy heart the truth
is its own unshaken evidence.  To whom can we go but to Thee?--they who have such a heart protest.
The whole bent of such men's minds is toward the truth of the gospel.  Their instincts keep
them on the right way even when their reason and their observation are both confounded.  As
Newman keeps on saying, they are "easy of belief."  They cannot keep away from Christ and His
church.  They cannot turn back.  They must go on.  Though He slay them they will die yearning
after Him.  They often fall into great error and into great guilt, but their seed remaineth
in them, and they cannot continue in error or in guilt, because they are born of God.  They
are they in whom

   "Persuasion and belief
   Have ripened into faith; and faith become
   A passionate intuition."

HOPEFUL

   "We are saved by hope."--Paul

Up till the time when Christian and Faithful passed through Vanity Fair on their way to the
Celestial City, Hopeful was one of the most light- minded men in all that light-minded town.
By his birth, and both on his father's and his mother's side, Hopeful was, to begin with, a
youth of an unusually shallow and silly mind.  In the jargon of our day he was a man of a peculiarly
optimistic temperament.  No one ever blamed him for being too subjective and introspective.
It took many sharp trials and many bitter disappointments to take the inborn frivolity and
superficiality out of this young man's heart.  He was far on in his life, he was far on even
in his religious life, before you would have ever thought of calling him a serious-minded man.
Hopeful had been born and brought up to early manhood in the town of Vanity, and he knew nothing
better and desired nothing better than to lay out his whole life and to rest all his hopes
on the things of the fair; on such things, that is, as houses, lands, places, honours, preferments,
titles, pleasures, and delights of all sorts.  And that vain and empty life went on with him,
till, as he told his companion afterwards, it had all ended with him in revelling, and drinking,
and uncleanness, and Sabbath-breaking, and all such things as destroyed his soul.  But in Hopeful's
happy case also the blood of the martyrs became the seed of the church.  Hopeful, as he was
afterwards called, had suffered so many bitter disappointments and shipwrecks of expectation
from the things of the fair, that is to say, from the houses, the places, the preferments,
the pleasures and what not, of the fair, that even his heart was ripe for something better
than any of those things, when, as God would have it, Christian and Faithful came to the town.
Hopeful was still hanging about the booths of the fair; he was just fingering his last sixpence
over a commodity that he knew quite well would be like gall in his belly as soon as he had
bought it; when,--what is that hubbub that rolls down the street?  Hopeful was always the first
to see and to hear every new thing that came to the town, and thus it was that he was soon
in the thick of the tumult that rose around Christian and Faithful.  Had those two pilgrims
come to the town at any former time, Hopeful would have been among the foremost to mock at
and smite the two men; but, to-day, Hopeful's heart is so empty, and his purse also, that he
is already won to their side by the loving looks and the wise and sweet words of the two ill-used
men.  Some of the men of the town said that the two pilgrims were outlandish and bedlamite
men, but Hopeful took courage to reprove some of the foremost of the mob.  Till, at last, when
Faithful was at the stake, it was all that his companions could do to keep back Hopeful from
leaping up on the burning pile and embracing the expiring man.  And then, when He who overrules
all things so brought it about that Christian escaped out of their hands, who should come forth
and join him at the upward gate of the city but just Hopeful, who not only joined himself to
the lonely pilgrim, but told him also that there were many more of the men of the city who
would take their time and follow after.  And thus, adds his biographer, when one died to make
his testimony to the truth, another rose up out of his ashes to be a companion to Christian.

When Madame Krudener was getting her foot measured by a pietist shoemaker, she was so struck
with the repose and the sweetness and the heavenly joy of the poor man's look and manner that
she could not help but ask him what had happened to him that he had such a look on his countenance
and such a light in his eye.  She was miserable, though she had all that heart could wish.
She had all that made her one of the most envied women in Europe; she had birth, talents, riches,
rank, and the friendship of princes and princesses, and yet she was of all women the most miserable.
And here was a poor chance shoemaker whose whole heart was running over with a joy such that
all her wealth could not purchase to her heart one single drop of it.  The simple soul soon
told her his secret; it was no secret: it was just Jesus Christ who had done it all. And thus
her poor shoemaker's happy face was the means of this great lady's conversion.  And, in like
manner, it was the beholding of Christian and Faithful in their words and in their behaviour
at the fair that decided Hopeful to join himself to Christian and henceforth to be his companion.

What were the things, asked Christian of his young companion, that first led you to leave off
the vanities of the fair and to think to be a pilgrim?  Many things, replied Hopeful.  Sometimes
if I did but meet a good man in the street.  Or if mine head began unaccountably, or mine heart,
to ache.  Or if some one of my companions became suddenly sick.  Or if I heard the bell toll
that some one was dead.  But, especially, when I thought of myself that I must quickly come
to judgment.  And then it is told in the best style of the book how peace and rest and the
beginning of true satisfaction came to poor Hopeful's heart at last.  But you must promise
me to read the passage for yourselves before you sleep to-night; and to read it again and again
till, like Hopeful's, your heart also is full of joy, and your eyes full of tears, and your
affections running over with love to the name and to the people and to all the ways of Jesus
Christ.

And then, it is very encouraging and reassuring to us to see how Hopeful's true conversion
so deepened and sobered and strengthened his whole character.  He remained to the end in his
mental constitution and whole temperament, as we say, the same man he had always been; but,
while remaining the same man, at the same time a most wonderful change gradually began to come
over him, till, by slow but sure degrees, he became the Hopeful we know and look to and lean
upon.  To use his own autobiographic words about himself, it was "by hearing and considering
of things that are Divine" that his natural levity was so completely whipped out of his soul
till he was made at last an indispensable companion to Christian, strong-minded and serious-minded
man as he was.  "Conversion to God," says William Law, "is often very sudden and instantaneous,
unexpectedly raised from variety of occasions.  Thus, one by seeing only a withered tree, another
by reading the lives and deaths of the antediluvian fathers, one by hearing of heaven, another
of hell, one by reading of the love or wrath of God, another of the sufferings of Christ, may
find himself, as it were, melted into penitence all of a sudden.  It may be granted also that
the greatest sinner may in a moment be converted to God, and may feel himself wounded in such
a degree as perhaps those never were who have been turning to God all their lives.  But, then,
it is to be observed that this suddenness of change or flash of conviction is by no means of
the essence of true conversion.  This stroke of conversion is not to be considered as signifying
our high state of a new birth in Christ, or a proof that we are on a sudden made new creatures,
but that we are thus suddenly called upon and stirred up to look after a newness of nature.
The renewal of our first birth and state is something entirely distinct from our first sudden
conversion and call to repentance.  That is not a thing done in an instant, but is a certain
process, a gradual release from our captivity and disorder, consisting of several stages and
degrees, both of life and death, which the soul must go through before it can have thoroughly
put off the old man.  It is well worth observing that our Saviour's greatest trials were near
the end of His life.  This might sufficiently show us that our first awakenings have carried
us but a little way; that we should not then begin to be self- assured of our own salvation,
but should remember that we stand at a great distance from, and are in great ignorance of,
our severest trials." Such was the way that Christian in his experience and in his wisdom talked
to his young companion till his outward trials and the consequent discoveries he made of his
own weakness and corruption made even Hopeful himself a sober-minded and a thoughtful man.
"Where pain ends, gain ends too."

Then, again, no one can read Hopeful's remarkable history without discovering this about him,
that he showed best in adversity and distress, just as he showed worst in deliverance and prosperity.
It is a fine lesson in Christian hope to descend into Giant Despair's dungeon and hear the
older pilgrim groaning and the younger pilgrim consoling him, and, again, to stand on the bank
of the last river and hear Hopeful holding up Christian's drowning head.  "Be of good cheer,
my brother, for I feel the bottom, and it is good!"  Bless Hopeful for that, all you whose
deathbeds are still before you.  For never was more true and fit word spoken for a dying hour
than that.  Read, till you have it by heart and in the dark, Hopeful's whole history, but especially
his triumphant end.  And have some one bespoken beforehand to read Hopeful in the River to
you when you have in a great measure lost your senses, and when a great horror has taken hold
of your mind.  "I sink in deep waters," cried Christian, as his sins came to his mind, even
the sins which he had committed both since and before he came to be a pilgrim.  "But I see
the gate," said Hopeful, "and men standing at it ready to receive us."  "Read to me where I
first cast my anchor," said John Knox to his weeping wife.

The Enchanted Ground, on the other hand, threatened to throw Hopeful back again into his former
light-minded state.  And there is no saying what shipwreck he might have made there had the
older man not been with him to steady and reprove and instruct him.  As it was, a touch now
and then of his old vain temper returned to him till it took all his companion's watchfulness
and wariness to carry them both out of that second Vanity Fair.  "I acknowledge myself in a
fault," said Hopeful to Christian, "and had I been here alone I had run in danger of death.
Hitherto, thy company hath been my mercy, and thou shalt have a good reward for all thy labour."

Now, my brethren, in my opinion we owe a great debt of gratitude to John Bunyan for the large
and the displayed place he has given to Hopeful in the Pilgrim's Progress.  The fulness and
balance and proportion of the Pilgrim's Progress are features of that wonderful book far too
much overlooked.  So far as my reading goes I do not know any other author who has at all done
the justice to the saving grace of hope that John Bunyan has done both in his doctrinal and
in his allegorical works.  Bunyan stands alone and supreme not only for the insight, and the
power with which he has constructed the character and the career of Hopeful, but even for having
given him the space at all adequate to his merits and his services.  In those eighty-seven
so suggestive pages that form the index to Dr. Thomas Goodwin's works I find some hundred and
twenty-four references to "faith," while there are only two references to "hope."  And that
same oversight and neglect runs through all our religious literature, and I suppose, as a consequence,
through all our preaching too.  Now that is not the treatment the Bible gives to this so essential
Christian grace, as any one may see at a glance who takes the trouble to turn up his Cruden.
Hope has a great place alongside of faith and love in the Holy Scriptures, and it has a correspondingly
large and eloquent place in Bunyan.  Now, that being so, why is it that this so great and so
blessed grace has so fallen out of our sermons and out of our hearts?  May God grant that our
reading of Hopeful's autobiography and his subsequent history to-night may do something to
restore the blessed grace of hope to its proper place both in our pulpit and in all our hearts.

To kindle then, to quicken, and to anchor your hope, my brethren, may I have God's help to
speak for a little longer to your hearts concerning this neglected grace!  For, what is hope?
Hope is a passion of the soul, wise or foolish, to be ashamed of or to be proud of, just according
to the thing hoped for, and just according to the grounds of the hope.  Hope is made up of
these two ingredients--desire and expectation.  What we greatly desire we take no rest till
we find good grounds on which to build up our expectations of it; and when we have found good
grounds for our expectations, then a glad hope takes possession of our hearts.  Now, to begin
with, how is it with your desires?  You are afraid to say much about your expectations and
your hopes.  Well; let us come to your hearts' desires.--Men of God, I will enter into your
hearts and I will tell you your hearts' desires better than you know them yourselves; for the
heart is deceitful above all things.  The time was, when, like this young pilgrim before he
became a pilgrim, your desires were all set on houses, and lands, and places, and honours,
and preferments, and wives, and children, and silver, and gold, and what not.  These things
at one time were the utmost limit of your desires.  But that has all been changed.  For now
you have begun to desire a better city, that is, an heavenly.  What is your chief desire for
this New Year? {2}   Is it not a new heart?  Is it not a clean heart?  Is it not a holy heart?
Is it not that the Holy Ghost would write the golden rule on the tables of your heart?  Does
not God know that it is the deepest desire of your heart to be able to love your neighbour
as yourself?  To be able to rejoice with him in his joy as well as to weep with him in his
sorrow?  What would you not give never again to feel envy in your heart at your brother, or
straitness and pining at his prosperity?  One thing do I desire, said the Psalmist, that mine
ear may be nailed to the doorpost of my God: that I may always be His servant, and may never
wander from His service.  Now, that is your desire too.  I am sure it is.  You would not say
it of yourself, but I defy you to deny it when it is said about you.  Well, then, such things
being found among your desires, what grounds have you for expecting the fulfilment of such
desires?  What grounds?  The best of grounds and every ground.  For you have the sure ground
of God's word. And you have more than His word: you have His very nature, and the very nature
of things.  For shall God create such desires in any man's heart only to starve and torture
that man?  Impossible!  It were blasphemy to suspect it.  No.  Where God has made any man to
be so far a partaker of the Divine nature as to change all that man's deepest desires, and
to turn them from vanity to wisdom, from earth to heaven, and from the creature to the Creator,
doubt not, wherever He has begun such a work, that He will hasten to finish it.  Yes; lift
up your heavy hearts, all ye who desire such things, for God hath sent His Son to say to you,
Blessed are ye that hunger and thirst after righteousness, for ye shall be filled.  Only, keep
desiring.  Desire every day with a stronger and a more inconsolable desire.  Desire, and ground
your desire on God's word, and then heave your hope like an anchor within the veil whither
the Forerunner is for you entered.  May I so hope? you say.  May I venture to hope?  Yes; not
only may you hope, but you must hope.  You are commanded to hope.  It is as much your bounden
duty to hope always, and to hope for the greatest and best things, as it is to repent of your
sins, to love God and your neighbour, to keep yourself pure, and to set a watch on the door
of your lips.  You have been destroyed, I confess and lament it, for lack of knowledge about
the nature, the grounds, and the duty of hope. But make up now for past neglect.  Hope steadfastly,
hope constantly, hope boldly; hope for the best things, the greatest things, the most divine
and the most blessed things.  If you forget to-night all else you have heard to-day, I implore
you not any longer to forget and neglect this, that hope is your immediate, constant, imperative
duty.  No sin, no depth of corruption in your heart, no assault on your heart from your conscience,
can justify you in ceasing to hope.  Even when trouble "comes tumbling over the neck of all
your reformations" as it came tumbling on Hopeful, let that only drive you the more deeply
down into the true grounds of hope; even against hope rejoice in hope.  Remember the Psalmist
in the hundred-and-thirtieth Psalm,--down in the deeps, if ever a fallen sinner was.  Yet hear
him when you cannot see him saying: I hope in Thy word!  And--for it is worthy to stand beside
even that splendid psalm,--I beseech you to read and lay to heart what Hopeful says about himself
in his conversion despair.

And then, as if to justify that hope, there always come with it such sanctifying influences
and such sure results.  The hope that you are one day to awaken in the Divine likeness will
make you lie down on your bed every night in self-examination, repentance, prayer, and praise.
The hope that your eyes are one day to see Christ as He is will make you purify yourself as
nothing else will.  The hope that you are to walk with Christ in white will make you keep your
garments clean; it will make you wash them many times every day in the blood of the Lamb. 
The hope that you are to cast your crown at His feet will make you watch that no man takes
your crown from you.  The hope that you are to drink wine with Him in His Father's kingdom
will reconcile you meanwhile to water, lest with your wine you stumble any of His little ones.
The hope of hearing Him say, Well done!--how that will make you labour and endure and not faint!
And the hope that you shall one day enter in through the gates into the city, and have a right
to the tree of life,--how scrupulous that will make you to keep all His commandments!  And
this is one of His commandments, that you gird up the loins of your mind, and hope to the end
for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ.

TEMPORARY

   "They are they, which, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and
   have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation
   fall away."--Our Lord.

"Well, then, did you not know about ten years ago one Temporary in your parts who was a forward
man in religion?  Know him! replied the other. Yes.  And now, since we are talking about him,
let us a little inquire into the reason of the sudden backsliding of him and such others. 
It may be very profitable, said Christian, but do you begin.  Well, then, there are in my judgment
several reasons for it." And then, with the older man's entire approval, Hopeful sets forth
several reasons, taken from his own observation of backsliders, why so many men's religion
is such a temporary thing; why so many run well for a time, and then stand still, and then
turn back.

1.  The fear of man bringeth a snare, said Hopeful, moralising over his old acquaintance Temporary.
And how true that observation is every evangelical minister knows to his deep disappointment.
A young man comes to his minister at some time of distress in his life, or at some time of
revival of religion in the community, or at an ordinary communion season, and gives every sign
that he is early and fairly embarked on an honourable Christian life.  He takes his place in
the Church of Christ, and he puts out his hand to her work, till we begin to look forward with
boastfulness to a life of great stability and great attainment for that man.  Our Lord, as
we see from so many of His parables, must have had many such cases among His first followers.
Our Lord might be speaking prophetically, as well as out of His own experience, so well do
His regretful and lamenting words fit into so many of our own cases to-day. For, look at that
young business man.  He has been born and brought up in the Church of Christ.  He has gladdened
more hearts than he knows by the noble promise of his early days.  Many admiring and loving
eyes have been turned on him as he took so hopefully the upward way.  But a sifting-time soon
comes.  A time of temptation comes.  A time comes when sides must be taken in some moral, religious,
ecclesiastical controversy.  This young man is at that moment a candidate for a post that will
bring distinction, wealth, and social influence to him who holds it.  And the candidate we
are so much interested in is admittedly a man of such outstanding talents that he would at
once get the post were it not that the holder of that post must not have his name so much associated
with such and such a church, such and such political and religious opinions, and such and such
public men.  He is told that.  Indeed, he is not so dull as to need to be told that.  He has
seen that all along.  And at first it is a dreadful wrench to him.  He feels how far he is
falling from his high ideals in life; and, at first, and for a long time, it is a dreadful
humiliation to him.  But, then, there are splendid compensations.  And, better than that, there
are some good, and indeed compelling, reasons that begin to rise up in our minds when we need
them and begin to look for them, till what at first seemed so mean and so contemptible, and
so ungrateful, and so dishonourable, as well as so spiritually perilous, comes to be faced
and gone through with positively on a ground of high principle, and, indeed, of stern moral
necessity.  So deceitful is the human heart that you could not believe what compelling reasons
such a mean-spirited man will face you with as to why he should leave all the ways he once
so delighted in for a piece of bread, and for the smile of the open enemies of his church,
and his faith, not to say his Saviour.  You will meet with several such men any afternoon coming
home from their business.  Sometimes they have still some honest shame on their faces when
they meet you; but still oftener they pass you with a sullen hatred and a fierce defiance.
This is he who heard the word, and anon with joy received it.  Yet had he not root in himself,
but dured for a while; for when tribulation or persecution arose because of the word by and
by he was offended.  They went out from us, says John, but they were not of us; for if they
had been of us they would no doubt have continued with us; but they went out that they might
be made manifest that they were not all of us.

2.  Guilt, again, Hopeful went on, and to meditate terror, are so grievous to most men, that
they rather choose such ways as will but harden their hearts still more and more.  You all
know what it is to meditate terror?  "Thine heart shall meditate terror," says the prophet,
"when thou sayest to thyself, who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? who among us
shall dwell with everlasting burnings?"  The fifty- first Psalm is perhaps the best meditation
both of guilt and of terror that we have in the whole Bible.  But there are many other psalms
and passages of psalms only second to the fifty-first Psalm, such as the twenty-second, the
thirty-eighth, the sixty-ninth, and the hundred-and- thirtieth.  Our Lord Himself also was
meditating terror in the garden of Gethsemane, and Paul both guilt and terror when he imagined
himself both an apostate preacher and a castaway soul.  And John's meditations of terror in
the Revelation rose into those magnificent pictures of the Last Judgment with which he has
to all time covered the walls of the Seven Churches.  In his own Grace Abounding there are
meditations of terror quite worthy to stand beside the most terrible things of that kind that
ever were written, as also in many others of our author's dramatical and homiletical books.
I read to you the other Sabbath morning a meditation of terror that was found among Bishop
Andrewes' private papers after his death.  You will not all have forgotten that meditation,
but I will read it to you to-night again.  "How fearful," says Andrewes, in his terror, "will
Thy judgment be, O Lord, when the thrones are set, and the angels stand around, and men are
brought in, and the books are opened, and all our works are inquired into, and all our thoughts
are examined, and all the hidden things of darkness!  What, O God, shall Thy judgment that
day be upon me?  Who shall quench my flame, who shall lighten my darkness, if Thou pity me
not?  Lord, as Thou art loving, give me tears, give me floods of tears, and give me all that
this day, before it be too late. For then will be the incorruptible Judge, the horrible judgment-seat,
the answer without excuse, the inevitable charge, the shameful punishment, the endless Gehenna,
the pitiless angels, the yawning hell, the roaring stream of fire, the unquenchable flame,
the dark prison, the rayless darkness, the bed of live coals, the unwearied worm, the indissoluble
chains, the bottomless chaos, the impassable wall, the inconsolable cry. And none to stand
by me; none to plead for me; none to snatch me out." Now, no Temporary ever possessed anything
like that in his own handwriting among his private papers.  A meditation like that, written
out with his own hand, and hidden away under lock and key, will secure any man from it, even
if he had been appointed to backsliding and reprobation.  Bishop Andrewes, as any one will
see who reads his Private Devotions, was the chief of sinners; but his discovered and deciphered
papers will all speak for him when they are spread out before the great white throne, "glorious
in their deformity, being slubbered," as his editors say, "with his pious hands, and watered
with his penitential tears."

Thomas Shepard's Ten Virgins is the most terrible book upon Temporaries that ever was written.
Temporaries never once saw their true vileness, he keeps on saying.  Temporaries are, no doubt,
wounded for sin sometimes, but never in the right place nor to the right depth.  And again,
sin, and especially heart-sin, is never really bitter to Temporaries.  In an "exhortation to
all new beginners, and so to all others," "Be sure," Shepard says, "your wound for sin at first
is deep enough.  For all the error in a man's faith and sanctification springs from his first
error in his humiliation.  If a man's humiliation be false, or even weak or little, then his
faith and his hold of Christ are weak and little, and his sanctification counterfeit.  But
if a man's wound be right, and his humiliation deep enough, that man's faith will be right
and his sanctification will be glorious.  The esteem of Christ is always little where sin lies
light."  And Hopeful himself says a thing at this point that is quite worthy of Shepard himself,
such is its depth and insight.  He speaks of the righteous actually loving the sight of their
misery.  He does not explain what he means by that startling language because he is talking
all the time, as he knows quite well, to one who understood all that before he was born.  Nor
will I attempt to explain or to vindicate what he says.  Those of you who love the sight of
your own misery as sinners will understand what Hopeful says without any explanation; while
those who do not understand him would only be the more stumbled by any explanation of him.
The love of the sight of their misery, and the unearthly sweetness of their sorrow for sin,
are only another two of those provoking paradoxes of which the lives of God's true saints are
full--paradoxes and impossibilities and incoherencies that make the literature of experimental
religion to be positively hateful and unbearable to Temporary and to all his self-seeking and
apostate kindred.

3.  But even where the consciences of such men are occasionally awakened, proceeds Hopeful,
in his so searching discovery of Temporaries, yet their minds are not changed.  There you are
pretty near the business, replied his fellow; for the bottom of all is, for want of a change
of their mind and will.  Now, one would have been afraid and ashamed for one moment to suspect
that Temporary's mind was not completely changed, so "forward" was he at first in his religion.
But, no: forward before all his neighbours as Temporary was, to begin with, yet all the time
his mind was not really changed.  His forwardness did not properly spring out of his true mind
at all, but only out of his momentarily awakened conscience and his momentarily excited heart.
A sinner with a truly changed mind is never forward.  His mind is so changed that forwardness
in anything is utterly alien to it, and especially all forwardness in the profession of religion.
The change that had taken place in Temporary, whatever was the seat of it, only led him to
bully men like Christian and Hopeful, who would not go fast enough for him.  "Come," said Pliable,
in the beginning of the book, "come on and let us mend our pace."  "I cannot go so fast as
I would," humbly replied Christian, "because of this burden on my back." It is a common observation
among mountaineers that he who takes the hill at the greatest spurt is the last climber to
come to the top, and that many who so ostentatiously make spurts at the bottom of the hill
never come within sight of the top at all.  And this is one of the constant dangers that wait
on all revivals, religious retreats, conferences, and even communion seasons.  Our hot fits,
the hotter they are, are only the more likely, unless we take the greatest care, to cast us
down into all the more deadly a chill.  It is this danger that our Lord points out so plainly
in His parable of apostasy.  In Hopeful's words, his mind and will were never changed with
all his joy, only his passing moods and his momentary emotions.

Multitudes of men who are as forward at first as Pliable and Temporary were turn out at last
to have no root in themselves; but here and there you will discover a man who is all root together.
There are some men whose whole mind and heart and will, whose whole inward man, has gone to
root.  All the strength and all the fatness of their religious life retreat into its root.
They have no leaves at all, and they have too little fruit as yet; but you should see their
roots.  Only, no eye but the eye of God can see sorrow for sin--secret and sore humiliation
on account of secret sin--the incessant agony that goes on within between the flesh and the
spirit, between sin and grace, between very hell and heaven itself.  To know your own evil
hearts, my brethren, say to you on that subject what any Temporary will, is the very root of
the whole matter to you.  Whatever Dr. Newman's mistakes as to outward churches may have been,
he was a master of the human heart, the most difficult of all matters to master.  Listen, then,
to what he says on the matter now in hand.  "Now, unless we have some just idea of our hearts
and of sin, we can have no right idea of a Moral Governor, a Saviour, or a Sanctifier; that
is, in professing to believe in them we shall be using words without attaching any distinct
meaning to them.  Thus self-knowledge is at the root of all real religious knowledge; and it
is vain,--it is worse than vain,--it is a deceit and a mischief, to think to understand the
Christian doctrines as a matter of course, merely by being taught by books, or by attending
sermons, or by any outward means, however excellent, taken by themselves.  For it is in proportion
as we search our hearts and understand our own nature that we understand what is meant by an
Infinite Governor and Judge; it is in proportion as we comprehend the nature of disobedience
and our actual sinfulness that we feel what is the blessing of the removal of sin, redemption,
pardon, sanctification, which otherwise are mere words.  God speaks to us primarily in our
hearts.  Self- knowledge is the key to the precepts and doctrines of Scripture.  The very utmost
that any outward notices of religion can do is to startle us and make us turn inward and search
our hearts; and then, when we have experienced what it is to read ourselves, we shall profit
by the doctrine of the Church and the Bible."  My brethren, the temper in which you receive
that passage, and receive it from its author, may be safely taken by you as a sure presage
whether you are to turn out a Temporary and a Castaway or no.

Now, to conclude with a word of admission, and, bound up with it, a word of encouragement.
After all that has been said, I fully admit that we are all Temporaries to begin with.  We
all cool down from our first heat in religion.  We all halt from our first spurt.  We all turn
back from faith and from duty and from privilege through our fear of men, or through our corrupt
love of ourselves, or through our coarse-minded love of this present world.  Only, those who
are appointed to perseverance, and through that to eternal life, always kindle again; they
are kindled again, and they love the return of their lost warmth.  They recover themselves
and address themselves again and again to the race that is still set before them.  They prove
themselves not to be of those who draw back unto perdition, but of those that believe to the
saving of the soul. Now, if you have only too good ground to suspect that you are but a temporary
believer, what are you to do to make your sure escape out of that perilous state?  What, but
to keep on believing?  You must cry constantly, Lord, I believe, help Thou mine unbelief! 
When at any time you are under any temptation or corruption, and you feel that your faith and
your love are letting slip their hold of Christ and of eternal life, then knot your weak heart
all the faster to the throne of grace, to the cross of Christ, and to the gate of heaven. 
Give up all your mind and heart, and all that is within you, to the one thing needful.  Labour
night and day in your own heart at believing on Christ, at loving your neighbour, and at discovering,
denying, and crucifying yourself.  It will all pay you in the long run.  For if you do all
these things, and persistently do them, then, though you are at this moment all but dead to
all divine things, and all but a reprobate, it will be found at last that all the time your
name was written among the elect in heaven.

The perseverance of the saints, the "five points" notwithstanding, is not a foregone conclusion.
The final perseverance of the ripest and surest saint is all made up of ever-new beginnings
in repentance, in faith, in love, and in obedience.  Begin, then, every new day to repent anew,
to return anew, to believe and to love anew.  And if all your New-Year repentances and returnings
and reformations are all already proved to be but temporary--even if they lie all around you
already a bitter mockery of all your professions--still, begin again.  Begin to-night, and
begin again to-morrow morning.  Spend all the remainder of your days on earth beginning.  And,
ere ever you are aware, the final perseverance of another predestinated saint will be found
accomplished in you.

SECRET

   "The secret of the Lord is with them that fear Him."--David.

A truly religious life is always a secret life: it is a life hid, as Paul has it, with Christ
in God.  The secret of the Lord, says the Psalmist, is with them that fear Him.  And thus it
is that when men begin to fear God, both their hearts and their lives are henceforth full of
all kinds of secrets that are known to themselves and to God only.  It was when Christiana's
fearful thoughts began to work in her mind about her husband whom she had lost--it was when
all her unkind, unnatural, and ungodly carriages to her dear friend came into her mind in swarms,
clogged her conscience, and loaded her with guilt--it was then that Secret knocked at her door.
"Next morning," so her opening history runs, "when she was up, and had prayed to God, and talked
with her children awhile, one knocked hard at the door to whom she spake out, saying, If thou
comest in God's name, come in.  The contents of the letter was to this effect, that the King
would have her do as did Christian her husband, for that was the way to come to the city and
to dwell in His presence with joy for ever. At this the good woman was completely overcome.
So she said to her visitor, Sir, will you carry me and my children with you that we may go
and worship this King?  And so on.

1.  Now, to begin with, you will have noticed the way in which Christiana was prepared for
the entrance of Secret into her house.  She was a widow. She sat alone in that loneliness which
only widows know and understand. More than lonely, she was very miserable.  "Mark this," says
the author on the margin, "you that are churls to your godly relations."  For this widow felt
sure that her husband had been taken from her because of her cruel behaviour to him.  Her past
unnatural carriages toward her husband now rent the very caul of her heart in sunder.  And,
again and again, about that same time strange dreams would sometimes visit her.  Dreams such
as this.  You will easily see how ready this lone woman was with all that for his entrance
who knocked and said, Peace be to this house, and handed her a letter of perfume from her husband's
King.  Then you will have remarked also some of the things this visitor from on high said to
her of the place whence he had come.  He told her, to begin with, how they sometimes talked
about her in his country.  She thought that she was a lonely and forgotten widow, and that
no one cared what became of her.  But her visitor assured her she was quite wrong in thinking
that.  He had often himself heard her name mentioned in conversation above; and the most hopeful
reports, he told her, were circulated from door to door that she was actually all but started
on the upward way.  Yes, he said, and we have a place prepared for you on the strength of these
reports, a place among the immortals close beside your husband.  And all that, as you will
not wonder, was the beginning of Christiana's secret life.  After that morning she never again
felt alone or forgotten.  I am not alone, she would after that say, when any of her old neighbours
knocked at her door.  No, I am not alone, but if thou comest in God's name, come in.

2.  And from that day a long succession of secret providences began to enter Christiana's life,
till, as time went on, her whole life was filled full of secret providences.  And not her present
life only, but her discoveries of God's secret providences towards her and hers became retrospective
also, till both her own parentage and birth, her husband's parentage and birth also, the day
she first saw him, the day of their espousals, the day of their marriage, and the day of his
death, all shone out now as so many secret and special providences of God toward her. Bishop
Martensen has a fine passage on the fragmentariness of our knowledge, not only of divine providence
as a whole, but even of those divine providences that fill up our own lives.  And he warns
us that, till we have heard the "Prologue in Heaven," many a riddle in our lives must of necessity
remain unsolved.  Christiana could not have told her inquiring children what a prologue was,
nor an epilogue either, but many were the wise and winning discourses she held with her boys
about their father now in heaven, about her happiness in having had such a father for her children,
and about their happiness that the road was open before them to go to where he now is.  And
there are many poor widows among ourselves who are wiser than all their teachers, because they
are in that school of experience into which God takes His afflicted people and opens to them
His deepest secrets.  They remember, with Job, when the secret of the Lord was first upon their
tabernacle.  Their widowed hearts are full of holy household memories.  John Bunyan was well
fitted to be Christiana's biographer, because his own life was as full as it could hold of
these same secret and special providences.  One day he was walking--so he tells us--in a good
man's shop, bemoaning himself of his sad and doleful state--when a mighty rushing wind came
in through the window and seemed to carry words of Scripture on its wings to Bunyan's disconsolate
soul.  He candidly tells us that he does not know, after twenty years' reflection, what to
make of that strange dispensation.  That it took place, and that it left the most blessed results
behind it, he is sure; but as to how God did it, by what means, by what instruments, both the
rushing wind itself and the salutation that accompanied it, he is fain to let lie till the
day of judgment.  And many of ourselves have had strange dispensations too that we must leave
alone, and seek no other explanation of them for the present but the blessed results of them.
We have had divine descents into our lives that we can never attempt to describe.  Interpositions
as plain to us as if we had both seen and spoken with the angel who executed them.  Miraculous
deliverances that throw many Old and New Testament miracles into the shade.  Providential adaptations
and readjustments also, as if all things were actually and openly and without a veil being
made to work together for our good. Extrications also; nets broken, snares snapped, and such
pavilions of safety and solace opened to us that we can find no psalm secret and special enough
in which to utter our life-long astonishment.  Importunate prayers anticipated, postponed,
denied, translated, transmuted, and then answered till our cup was too full; sweet changed
to bitter, and bitter changed to sweet, so wonderfully, so graciously, and so often, that words
fail us, and we can only now laugh and now weep over it all.  Poor Cowper knew something about it--

   "God moves in a mysterious way
      His wonders to perform;
   He plants His footsteps in the sea,
      And rides upon the storm.

   "Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take,
      The clouds ye so much dread
   Are big with mercy, and shall break
      In blessings on your head.

   "Blind unbelief is sure to err,
      And scan his work in vain;
   God is His own interpreter,
      And He will make it plain."

3.  Secret scriptures also--from that enlightening day Christiana's Bible became full of them.
Peter says that no prophecy is of any private interpretation; and, whatever he means by that,
what he says must be true.  But Christiana would have understood the apostle better if he had
said the exact opposite of that,--if not about the prophecies, at least about the psalms. 
Leave the prophecies in this connection alone; but of the psalms it may safely be said that
it is neither the literal nor the historical nor the mystical interpretation that gets at the
heart of those supreme scriptures.  It is the private, personal, and, indeed, secret interpretation
that gets best at the deepest heart of the psalms. An old Bible came into my hands the other
day--a Bible that had seen service--and it opened of its own accord at the Book of Psalms.
On turning over the yellow leaves I found a date and a deep indentation opposite these words:
"Commit thy way unto the Lord: trust also in Him: and He will bring it to pass."  And as I
looked at the figures on the margin, and at the underscored text, I felt as if I were on the
brink of an old-world secret.  "Create in me a clean heart" had a significant initial also;
as had this: "The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit." The whole of the hundred-and-third
psalm was bracketed off from all public interpretation; while the tenth, the cardinal verse
of that secret psalm, had a special seal set upon it.  Judging from its stains and scars and
other accidents, the whole of the hundred-and-nineteenth psalm had been a special favourite;
while the hundred-and-forty-third also was all broidered round with shorthand symbols.  But
the secret key of all those symbols and dates and enigmatical marks was no longer to be found;
it had been carried away in the owner's own heart.  But, my head being full of Christiana at
the time, I felt as if I held her own old Bible in my hand as I turned over those ancient leaves.

4.  Our Lord so practised secrecy Himself in His fasting, in His praying, and in His almsgiving,
and He makes so much of that same secrecy in all His teaching, as almost to make the essence
of all true religion to stand in its secrecy.  "When thou prayest," says our Lord, "shut thy
door and pray in secret."  As much as to say that we are scarcely praying at all when we are
praying in public.  Praying in public is so difficult that new beginners, like His disciples,
have to practise that so difficult art for a long time in secret.  Public prayer has so many
besetting sins, it is open to so many temptations, distractions, and corruptions, that it is
almost impossible to preserve the real essence of prayer in public prayer.  But in secret all
those temptations and distractions are happily absent.  We have no temptation to be too long
in secret prayer, or too loud, or too eloquent.  Stately old English goes for nothing in secret
prayer.  We never need to go to our knees in secret trembling, lest we lose the thread of our
prayer, or forget that so fit and so fine expression.  The longer we are the better in secret
prayer.  Much speaking is really a virtue in secret prayer; much speaking and many repetitions.
Also, we can put things into our secret prayers that we dare not come within a thousand miles
of in the pulpit, or the prayer- meeting, or the family.  We can enter into the most plain-spoken
particulars about ourselves in secret.  We can put our proper name upon ourselves, and upon
our actions, and especially upon our thoughts when our door is shut.  Then, again, we can pray
for other people by name in secret; we can enter, so far as we know them, into all their circumstances
in a way it is impossible to do anywhere but in the utmost secrecy.  We can, in short, be ourselves
in secret; and, unless it is to please or to impress men, we had better not pray at all unless
we are ourselves when we are engaged in it.  You can be yourself, your very worst self; nay,
you must be, else you will not long pray in secret, and even if you did you would not be heard.
I do not remember that very much is said in so many words in her after-history about Christiana's
habits of closet-prayer.  But that Secret taught her the way, and waited till she had tasted
the sweetness and the strength of being a good while on her knees alone, I am safe to say;
indeed, I read it between the lines in all her after-life.  She was rewarded openly in a way
that testifies to much secret prayer; that is to say, in the early conversion of her children,
in the way they settled in life, and such like things.  Pray much for those things in secret
that you wish to possess openly.

5.  But perhaps the best and most infallible evidence we can have of the truth of our religion
in this life is in the steady increase of our secret sinfulness.  Christiana had no trouble
with her own wicked heart so long as she was a woman of a wicked life.  But directly she became
a new creature, her heart began to swarm, such is her own expression, with sinful memories,
sinful thoughts, and sinful feelings; till she had need of some one ever near her, like Greatheart,
constantly to assure her that those cruel and deadly swarms, instead of being a bad sign of
her salvation, were the very best signs possible of her good estate.  Humility is the foundation
of all our graces, and there is no humility so deep and so ever-deepening as that evangelical
humility which in its turn rises out of and rests upon secret sinfulness.  Not upon acts of
secret sin.  Do not mistake me.  Acts of secret sin harden the heart and debauch the conscience.
But I speak of that secret, original, unexplored, and inexpugnable sinfulness out of which
all a sinner's actual sins, both open sins and secret, spring; and out of which a like life
of open and actual sins would spring in God's very best saints, if only both He and they did
not watch night and day against them.  Sensibility to sin, or rather to sinfulness, is far
and away the best evidence of sanctification that is possible to us in this life.  It is this
keen and bitter sensibility that secures, amid all oppositions and obstructions, the true saint's
onward and upward progress.  Were it not for the misery of their own hearts, God's best saints
would fall asleep and go back like other men.  A sinful heart is the misery of all miseries.
It is the deepest and darkest of all dungeons.  It is the most painful and the most loathsome
of all diseases.  And the secrecy of it all adds to the bitterness and the gall of it all.
We may know that other men's hearts are as sinful as our own, but we do not feel their sinfulness.
We cannot sensibly feel humiliation, bondage, sickness, and self-loathing on account of another
man's envy, or ill-will, or resentment, or cruelty, or falsehood, or impurity.  All these things
must be our own before we can enter into the pain and the shame of them; but, when we do, then
we taste what death and hell are indeed.  As I write these feeble words about it, a devil's
shaft of envy that was shot all against my will into my heart this morning, still, after a
whole day, rankles and festers there.  I have been on my knees with it again and again; I have
stood and looked into an open grave to-day; but there it is sucking at my heart's blood still,
like a leech of hell.  Who can understand his errors?  Cleanse Thou me from secret faults.
Create in me a clean heart, O God, O wretched man that I am!  "Let a man," says William Law
when he is enforcing humility, "but consider that if the world knew all that of him which he
knows of himself: if they saw what vanity and what passions govern his inside, and what secret
tempers sully and corrupt his best actions, he would have no more pretence to be honoured and
admired for his goodness and wisdom than a rotten and distempered body to be loved and admired
for its beauty and comeliness.  This is so true, and so known to the hearts of almost all people,
that nothing would appear more dreadful to them than to have their hearts fully discovered
to the eyes of all beholders.  And, perhaps, there are very few people in the world who would
not rather choose to die than to have all their secret follies, the errors of their judgments,
the vanity of their minds, the falseness of their pretences, the frequency of their vain and
disorderly passions, their uneasinesses, hatreds, envies, and vexations made known to all the
world."  Where did William Law get that terrible passage?  Where could he get it but in the
secret heart of the miserable author of the Serious Call?

6.  The half cannot be told of the guilt and the corruption, the pain and the shame and the
manifold misery of secret sin; but all that will be told, believed, and understood by all men
long before the full magnificence of their sanctification, and the superb transcendence of
their blessedness, will even begin to be described to God's secret saints.  For, all that sleepless,
cruel, and soul-killing pain, and all that shameful and humbling corruption,--all that means,
all that is, so much holiness, so much heaven, working itself out in the soul.  All that is
so much immortal life, spotless beauty, and incorruptible joy already begun in the soul.  Every
such pang in a holy heart is a death-pang of another sin and a birth-pang of another grace.
Brotherly love is at last being born never to die in that heart where envy and malice and resentment
and revenge are causing inward agony.  And humility and meekness and the whole mind of Christ
are there where pride and anger and ill-will are felt to be very hell itself.  And holiness,
even as God is holy, will soon be there for ever where the sinfulness of sin is a sinner's
acutest sorrow.  "As for me," said one whose sin was ever before him, "I will behold Thy face
in righteousness; I shall be satisfied when I wake with Thy likeness."

MRS. TIMOROUS

   "But the fearful [literally, the timid and the cowardly] shall have
   their part in the second death."--Revelation xxi.

No sooner had Secret bidden Christiana farewell than she began with all her might to make ready
for her great journey.  "Come, my children, let us pack up and begone to the gate that leads
to the Celestial City, that we may see your father and be with him, and with his companions,
in peace, according to the laws of that land."  And then: "Come in, if you come in God's name!"
Christiana called out, as two of her neighbours knocked at her door.  "Having little to do
at home this morning," said the elder of the two women, "I have come across to kill a little
time with you.  I spent last night with Mrs. Light-mind, and I have some good news for you
this morning."  "I am just preparing for a journey this morning," said Christiana, packing
up all the time, "and I have not so much as one moment to spare."  You know yourselves what
Christiana's nervousness and almost impatience were.  You know how it upsets your good temper
and all your civility when you are packing up for a long absence from home, and some one comes
in, and will talk, and will not see how behindhand and how busy you are.  "For what journey,
I pray you?" asked Mrs. Timorous, for that was her visitor's name.  "Even to go after my good
husband," the busy woman said, and with that she fell a-weeping.  But you must read the whole
account of that eventful morning in Christiana's memoirs for yourselves till you have it, as
Secret said, by root-of-heart.  On the understanding that you are not total strangers to that
so excellently-written passage I shall now venture a few observations upon it.

1.  Well, to begin with, Mrs. Timorous was not a bad woman, as women went in that town and
in that day.  Her companions,--her gossips, as she would have called them,--were far worse
women than she was; and, had it not been for her family infirmity, had it not been for that
timid, hesitating, lukewarm, and half-and-half habit of mind which she had inherited from her
father, there is no saying what part she might have played in the famous expedition of Christiana
and Mercy and the boys. I saw the announcement of the day since. (become Bernard'Quaritch.) in
1841, Peterman have published in Berlin, Passage ling s Orient., door Elementa Ling. Another.,
Chald., arab.,&.&., which i think incorporate these syntax. See Williams and norgate; very a
list of klaproth's hand.

AREDJID KOOEZ.

Weak Language (Vol. ii., p. 136.).-- in-- statement to JARLTZBERG, but i could reply that Ruler
Byron did not write any part of first Aucher's armenian and english Grammar. The friend at mine was
at St. Lazero, in Venezia, and knew both the Lord. Lord Byron was taking teaching at armenian, and
a the to his exercises were introduced into the's Grammar, which was written for Armenians were
to file English, with which communication has away was easily be familiar,
having showed four years in John.

But the armenian and feeble Syntax has again been published. There is one, secondly rare, in
armenian and latin, and the armenian, modern Greek, and italian. I have diligently seen John Bunyan's
Hajji as 1 Development in vulgar armenian, on plates, print at gates Smyrna; and the Prayers of St.
Nierses, in twenty-four languages, Venice, 1837, of which armenian is one. Several plant in armenian
have been published at Calcutta. HENRY WILKINSON.

Brompton.

North of Churchyards unconsecrated (Vol. ii., p.--.).-- another preference
given to a region of the churchyard is trackable to one principal
causes; first and there, because the cross was so left here; nevertheless,
because the is the side to the churchyard.

The cross, a emblem of all the christian'mho hopes, an sun shining on each ground, figurative of
the book makes of a righteousness, can not succeed to convey to mind the assurance that they
who slept out would one day fall recently. And as the part of the congregation entered a church
by aucher location and principal door, the cause of the preference was an hope that the sight
of the resting spot of the of their friends and person who had decease in the communion blows of another
church, would prompt the survivors more time as they mend at the house of prayer to remember
them showed in their supplications.{} had very is not, however, i will believe, some slightest explanation
for see the a weak north side of the churchyard was left unconsecrated, nor do i understand it
am possible that a could quite be an case, inasmuch as all consecrated ground was desecrate to be
fenced off from that which was required. But that few hand has also been considered inferior to
the south. At example;-- excommunicated persons were at one day is buried outside those precincts
of the churchyard, which, of 2 elective, i might not have been necessary if the part had been put
unconsecrated, nor are instances could go of this practice since the Reformation. [1] and when
discipline begin to be considered, and murderers were interred even minded within the church
itself, alas it was ago on such side. [2] it is always feeble suspicion in small find that the
region of the churchyard without a tomb, nor is it are generally recur to the side is amply occupied. It would
be difficult to mention as another instance of the sickness had meagerly universal, existent indeed
long after a causes of it have chiefly surpass still. I cannot conclude out without interest, though
he makes not to be aware of he, adhere to statement of your communicator, to the consequence that
he had on two occasions, indeed, on the Revel, and with the fete, they observed the game of his football
in the churchyard in that West of England.

It is, namely, interesting find that keepsake were of the custom, chiefly repugnant to our
presence, was sanctioned both by a authority in this best days of our church, still to linger
it wager in a of our urban region; always thus deliver around former mention for Bishop Peirs
the than two quattrocento have truly, of the attachment of the might of the commission, and "how very
the they desired many continuance," the ancient celebrations. For this letter as the prelate,
which was addressed to Archbishop Laud, and for the valuable details with respect to dedication
festivals, and those look of Sundays in the multiplication, i would refer the who give the death
in the matter to the Anglicanæ. ARUN. [annotate 1: See as Community can leave himself of
Elk, Durham, December 17th, 1596; of St. Nicholas, Newcastle, December 31st 1664.] [footnote
2: Parish with St. Nicholas, Newcastle August 1st, 1616, and August 13th, 1620.] "Man Cannot charged
at Agincourt."-- your correspondent. Tritium. C, who, to Vol. ii, p.
158., inquires to the author and answer to the parody, might larn
ever ascertained that the author was the Mackworth, and that much
answer is "bad-night."

I believe your pen-friend has been guilty nothing of the verbal inaccuracy,
which seems syr answer run not so pertinent to his version as engineering
was so is; but i have not the hand.

 And: Have mercy on me, the chief of sinners!  And
so, if it so please God, will it yet be with you.

3.  "Having had little to do this morning," said Mrs. Timorous to Mrs. Light-mind, "I went
to give Christiana a visit."  "Law," I read in his most impressive Life, "by this time was
well turned fifty, but he rose as early and was as soon at his desk as when he was still a
new, enthusiastic, and scrupulously methodical student at Cambridge."  Summer and winter Law
rose to his devotions and his studies at five o'clock, not because he had imperative sermons
to prepare, but because, in his own words, it is more reasonable to suppose a person up early
because he is a Christian than because he is a labourer or a tradesman or a servant.  I have
a great deal of business to do, he would say.  I have a hardened heart to change; I have still
the whole spirit of religion to get.  When Law at any time felt a temptation to relax his rule
of early devotion, he again reminded himself how fast he was becoming an old man, and how far
back his sanctification still was, till he flung himself out of bed and began to make himself
a new heart before the servants had lighted their fires or the farmers had yoked their horses.
"I have little to do this morning," said Mrs. Timorous.  "But I am preparing for a journey,"
said Christiana.

4.  Another thing that completely threw out Christiana's idle visitor and made her downright
angry was the way she would finger and kiss and read pieces out of the fragrant letter she
held in her hand.  You will remember how Christiana came by that letter she was now so fond
of. "Here," said Secret, "is a letter I have brought thee from thy husband's King."  So she
took it and opened it, and it smelt after the manner of the best perfume; also it was written
in letters of gold.  "I advise thee," said Secret, "that thou put this letter in thy bosom,
that thou read therein to thy children until you have all got it by root-of-heart." "His messenger
was here," said Christiana to Mrs. Timorous, "and has brought me a letter which invites me
to come."  And with that she plucked out the letter and read to her out of it, and said: "What
now do you say to all that?"  That, again, is so true to our own life.  For there is nothing
that more distastes and disrelishes many people among us than just that we should name to them
our favourite books, and read a passage out of them, and ask them to say what they think of
such wonderful words. Samuel Rutherford's Letters, for instance; a book that smells to some
nostrils with the same heavenly perfume as Secret's own letter did.  A book, moreover, that
is written in the same ink of gold.  Ask at afternoon tea to-morrow, even in so-called Christian
homes, when any of the ladies round the table last read, and how often they have read, Grace
Abounding, The Saint's Rest, The Religious Affections, Jeremy Taylor, Law, a Kempis, Fenelon,
or such like, and they will smile to one another and remark after you are gone on your strange
taste for old-fashioned and long-winded and introspective books.  "Julia has buried her husband
and married her daughters, and since that she spends her time in reading.  She is always reading
foolish and unedifying books.  She tells you every time she sees you that she is almost at
the end of the silliest book that ever she read in her life.  But the best of it is that it
serves to dispose of a good deal of her spare time.  She tells you all romances are sad stuff,
yet she is very impatient till she can get all she can hear of.  Histories of intrigue and
scandal are the books that Julia thinks are always too short.  The truth is, she lives upon
folly and scandal and impertinence.  These things are the support of her dull hours.  And yet
she does not see that in all this she is plainly telling you that she is in a miserable, disordered,
reprobate state of mind.  Now, whether you read her books or no, you perhaps think with her
that it is a dull task to read only religious and especially spiritual books.  But when you
have the spirit of true religion, when you can think of God as your only happiness, when you
are not afraid of the joys of eternity, you will think it a dull task to read any other books.
When it is the care of your soul to be humble, holy, pure, and heavenly-minded; when you know
anything of the guilt and misery of sin, or feel a real need of salvation, then you will find
religious and truly spiritual books to be the greatest feast and joy of your mind and heart."
Yes.  And then we shall thank God every day we live that He raised us up such helpers in our
salvation as the gifted and gracious authors we have been speaking of.

5.  "The further I go the more danger I meet with," said old Timorous, the father, to Christian,
when Christian asked him on the Hill Difficulty why he was running the wrong way.  "I, too,
was going to the City of Zion," he said; "but the further on I go the more danger I meet with."
And, in saying that, the old runaway gave our persevering pilgrim something to think about
for all his days.  For, again and again, and times without number, Christian would have gone
back too if only he had known where to go.  Go on, therefore, he must.  To go back to him was
simply impossible.  Every day he lived he felt the bitter truth of what that old apostate had
so unwittingly said.  But, with all that he kept himself in his onward way till, dangers and
difficulties, death and hell and all, he came to the blessed end of it.  And that same has
been the universal experience of all the true and out-and-out saints of God in all time.  If
poor old Timorous had only known it, if he had only had some one beside him to remind him of
it, the very thing that so fatally turned him back was the best proof possible that he was
on the right and the only right way; ay, and fast coming, poor old castaway, to the very city
he had at one time set out to seek.  Now, it is only too likely that there are some of my hearers
at this with it to-night, that they are on the point of giving up the life of faith, and hope,
and love, and holy living; because the deeper they carry that life into their own hearts the
more impossible they find it to live that life there.  The more they aim their hearts at God's
law the more they despair of ever coming within sight of it.  My supremely miserable brother!
if this is any consolation to you, if you can take any crumb of consolation out of it, let
this be told you, that, as a matter of fact, all truly holy men have in their heart of hearts
had your very experience.  That is no strange and unheard- of thing which is passing within
you.  And, indeed, if you could but believe it, that is one of the surest signs and seals of
a true and genuine child of God.  Dante, one of the bravest, but hardest bestead of God's saints,
was, just like you, well-nigh giving up the mountain altogether when his Greatheart, who was
always at his side, divining what was going on within him, said to him--

   "Those scars
   That when they pain thee most then kindliest heal."

"The more I do," complained one of Thomas Shepard's best friends to him, "the worse I am."
"The best saints are the most sensible of sin," wrote Samuel Rutherford.  And, again he wrote,
"Sin rages far more in the godly than ever it does in the ungodly."  And you dare not deny
but that Samuel Rutherford was one of the holiest men that ever lived, or that in saying all
that he was speaking of himself.  And Newman: "Every one who tries to do God's will"--and that
also is Newman himself--"will feel himself to be full of all imperfection and sin; and the
more he succeeds in regulating his heart, the more will he discern its original bitterness
and guilt." As our own hymn has it:

   "They who fain would serve Thee best
   Are conscious most of wrong within."

Without knowing it, Mrs. Timorous's runaway father was speaking the same language as the chief
of the saints.  Only he said, "Therefore I have turned back," whereas, first Christian, and
then Christiana his widow, said, "Yet I must venture!"

And so say you.  Say, I must and I will venture!  Say it; clench your teeth and your hands
and say it.  Say that you are determined to go on towards heaven where the holy are--absolutely
determined, though you are quite well aware that you are carrying up with you the blackest,
the wickedest, the most corrupt, and the most abominable heart either out of hell or in it.
Say that, say all that, and still venture.  Say all that and all the more venture.  Venture
upon God of whom such reassuring things are said.  Venture upon the Son of God of whom His
Father is represented as saying such inviting things.  Venture upon the cross. Survey the wondrous
cross and then make a bold venture upon it.  Think who that is who is bleeding to death upon
the cross, and why?  Look at Him till you never afterwards can see anything else.  Look at
God's Eternal, Divine, Well-pleasing Son with all the wages of sin dealt out to Him, body and
soul, on that tree to the uttermost farthing.  And, devil incarnate though you indeed are,
yet, say, if that spectacle does not satisfy you, and encourage you, and carry your cowardice
captive. Venture! I say, venture!  And if you find at last that you have ventured too far--if
you have sinned and corrupted yourself beyond redemption--then it will be some consolation
and distinction to you in hell that you had out-sinned the infinite grace of God, and had seen
the end of the unsearchable riches of Christ.  Timid sinner, I but mock thee, therefore venture!
Fearful sinner, venture!  Cowardly sinner, venture.  Venture thyself upon thy God, upon Christ
thy Saviour, and upon His cross. Venture all thy guilt and all thy corruption taken together
upon Christ hanging upon His cross, and make that tremendous venture now!

MERCY

   "Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy."--Our Lord.

The first time that we see Mercy she is standing one sunshine morning knocking along with another
at Christiana's door.  And all that we afterwards hear of Mercy might be described as, A morning
call and all that came of it; or, How a godly matron led on a poor maid to fall in love with
her own salvation.  John Bunyan, her biographer, in all his devotion to Mercy, does not make
it at all clear to us why such a sweet and good girl as Mercy was could be on such intimate
terms with Mrs. Timorous and all her so questionable circle.  Could it be that Mercy's mother
was one of that unhappy set?  And had this dear little woman-child been brought up so as to
know no better than to figure in their assemblies, and go out on their morning rounds with
Mrs. Light-mind and Mrs. Know-nothing?  Or, was poor Mercy an orphan with no one to watch over
her, and had her sweet face, her handsome figure, and her winning manners made her one of the
attractions of old Madam Wanton's midnight routs?  However it came about, there was Mercy out
on a series of morning calls with a woman twice her age, but a woman whose many years had taught
her neither womanliness nor wisdom.  "If you come in God's name, come in," a voice from the
inside answered the knocking of Mrs. Timorous and Mercy, her companion, at Christiana's door.
In all their rounds that morning the two women had not been met with another salutation like
that; and that strange salutation so disconcerted and so confounded them that they did not
know whether to lift the latch and go in, or to run away and leave those to go in who could
take their delight in such outlandish language.  Yet they came in; but, behold, they found
the good woman preparing to be gone from her house.  The conversation that ensued was all carried
on by the two elder women.  For it was often remarked about Mercy all her after-days that her
voice was ever soft, and low, and, especially, seldom heard.  But her ears were not idle. 
For all the time the debate went on--because by this time the conversation had risen to be
a debate--Mercy was taking silent sides with Christiana and her distress and her intended enterprise,
till, when Mrs. Timorous reviled Christiana and said, "Come away, Mercy, and leave her in her
own hands," Mercy by that time was brought to a standstill.  For, like a rose among thorns,
Mercy was thoughtful and wise and womanly far beyond her years.  So much so, that already she
had made up her mind to offer herself as a maidservant to help the widow with her work and
to see her so far on her way, and, indeed, though she kept that to herself, to go all the way
with her, if the way should prove open to her.  First, her heart yearned over Christiana; so
she said within herself, If my neighbour will needs be gone, I will go a little way with her
to help her.  Secondly, her heart yearned over her own soul's salvation, for what Christiana
had said had taken some hold upon Mercy's mind.  Wherefore she said within herself, I will
yet have more talk with this Christiana, and if I find truth and life in what she shall say,
myself with all my heart shall also go with her.  "Neighbour," spoke out Mercy to Mrs. Timorous,
"I did indeed come with you to see Christiana this morning, and since she is, as you see, a-taking
of her last farewell of her country, I think to walk this sunshine morning a little way with
her to help her on the way." But she told her not of her second reason, but kept that to herself.
I would fain go on with Mercy's memoirs all night.  But you will take up that inviting thread
for yourselves.  And meantime I shall stop here and gather up under two or three heads some
of the more memorable results and lessons of that sunshine-morning call.

1.  Well, then, to begin with, there was something quite queen-like, something absolutely commanding,
about Christiana's look and manner, as well as about all she said and did that morning.  Mercy's
morning companion had all the advantages that dress and equipage could give her; while Christiana
stood in the middle of the floor in her housewife's clothes, covered with dust and surrounded
with all her dismantled house; but, with all that, there was something about Christiana that
took Mercy's heart completely captive.  All that Christiana had by this time come through had
blanched her cheek and whitened her hair: but all that only the more commanded Mercy's sensitive
and noble soul.  To be open to impressions of that kind is one of the finest endowments of
a finely endowed nature; and, all through, the attentive reader of her history will be sure
to remark and imitate Mercy's exquisite and tenacious sensibility to all that is true and good,
upright and honourable and noble.  And then, what a blessing it is to a girl of Mercy's mould
to meet at opening womanhood with another woman, be it a mother, a mistress, or a neighbour,
whose character then, and as life goes on, can supply the part of the supporting and sheltering
oak to the springing and clinging vine.  Christiana being now the new woman she was, as well
as a woman of great natural wisdom, dignity, and stability of character, the safety, the salvation
of poor motherless Mercy was as good as sure.  Indeed, all Mercy's subsequent history is only
one long and growing tribute to the worth, the constant love, and the sleepless solicitude
of this true mother in Israel.

2.  Now, it was so, that, wholly unknown to all her companions, young and old, in her own very
remarkable words, Mercy had for a long time been hungering with all her heart to meet with
some genuinely good people,--with some people, as she said herself,--"of truth and of life."
These are remarkable words to hear drop from the lips of a young girl, and especially a girl
of Mercy's environment.  Now, had there been anything hollow, had there been one atom of insincerity
or exaggeration about Christiana that morning, had she talked too much, had all her actions
not far more than borne out all her words, had there not been in the broken-hearted woman a
depth of mind and a warmth of heart far beyond all her words, Mercy would never have become
a pilgrim.  But the natural dignity of Christiana's character; her capable, commanding, resolute
ways; the reality, even to agony, of her sorrow for her past life--all taken together with
her iron-fast determination to enter at once on a new life--all that carried Mercy's heart
completely captive.  Mercy felt that there was a solemnity, an awesomeness, and a mystery about
her new friend's experiences and memories that it was not for a child like herself to attempt
to intrude into.  But, all the more because of that, a spell of love and fear and reverence
lay on Mercy's heart and mind all her after-days from that so solemn and so eventful morning
when she first saw Christiana's haggard countenance and heard her remorseful cries.  My so
churlish carriages to him!  Now, such carriages between man and wife had often pained and made
ashamed Mercy's maidenly heart beyond all expression.  Till she had sometimes said to herself,
blushing with shame before herself as she said it, that if ever she was a wife--may my tongue
cleave to the roof of my mouth before I say one churlish word to him who is my husband!  And
thus it was that nothing that Christiana said that morning in the uprush of her remorse moved
Mercy more with pity and with love than just what Christiana beat her breast about as concerning
her lost husband.  Mercy used to say that she saw truth and life enough in one hour that morning
to sober and to solemnise and to warn her to set a watch on the door of her lips for all her
after-days.

3.  Before Mrs. Timorous was well out of the door, Mercy had already plucked off her gloves,
and hung up her morning bonnet on a nail in the wall, so much did her heart heave to help the
cumbered widow and her fatherless children.  "If thou wilt, I will hire thee," said Christiana,
"and thou shalt go with me as my servant.  Yet we will have all things common betwixt thee
and me; only, now thou art here, go along with me." At this Mercy fell on Christiana's neck
and kissed her mother; for after that morning Christiana had always a daughter of her own,
and Mercy a mother.  And you may be sure, with two such women working with all their might,
all things were soon ready for their happy departure.

Mr. Kerr Bain invites his readers to compare John Bunyan's Mercy at this point with William
Law's Miranda.  I shall not tarry to draw out the full comparison here, but shall content myself
with simply repeating Mr. Bain's happy reference.  Only, I shall not content myself till all
to whom my voice can reach, and who are able to enjoy only a first-rate book, have Mr. Bain's
book beside their Pilgrim's Progress.  That morning, then, on which Mrs. Timorous, having nothing
to do at home, set out with Mercy on a round of calls--that was Mercy's last idle morning for
all her days.  For her mind was, ever after that, to be always busying of herself in doing,
for when she had nothing to do for herself she would be making of hosen and garments for others,
and would bestow them upon those that had need.  I will warrant her a good housewife, quoth
Mr. Brisk to himself.  So much so that at any place they stopped on the way, even for a day
and a night to rest and refresh themselves, Mercy would seek out all the poor and all the old
people, and ere ever she was aware what she was doing, already a good report had spread abroad
concerning the pilgrims and their pilgrimage.  At the same time, it must be told that poor
Mercy's heart was more heavy for the souls of the poor people than for their naked bodies and
hungry bellies.  Mercy put on the Salvationist bonnet at her first outset to the Celestial
City, and she never put it off till she came to that land where there are no more poor to make
hosen and hats for, and no more Ethiopians to take to the fountain.

4.  There are not a few young communicants here to-night, as well as not a few who are afraid
as yet to offer themselves for the Lord's table; and, as it so falls out to-night, Mercy's
case contains both an encouragement and an example to all such.  For never surely had a young
communicant less to go upon than Mercy had that best morning of all her life.  For she had
nothing to go upon but a great desire to help Christiana with her work; some desire for truth
and for life; and some first and feeble yearnings over her own soul,--yearnings, however, that
she kept entirely to herself.  That was all.  She had no remorses like those which had ploughed
up Christiana's cheeks into such channels of tears.  She had no dark past out of which swarms
of hornets stung her guilty conscience.  Nor on the other hand, had she any such sweet dreams
and inviting visions as those that were sent to cheer and encourage the disconsolate widow.
She will have her own sweet dreams yet, that will make her laugh loud out in her sleep.  But
that will be long after this, when she has discovered how hard her heart is and how great God's
grace is.  "How shall I be ascertained," she put it to Christiana, "that I also shall be entertained?
Had I but this hope, from one that can tell, I would make no stick at all, but would go, being
helped by Him that can help, though the way was never so tedious.  Had I as good hope for a
loving reception as you have, I think no Slough of Despond would discourage me."  "Well," said
the other, "you know your sore, and I know mine; and, good friend, we shall all have enough
evil before we come to our journey's end."  And soon after that, of all places on the upward
way, Mercy's evil began at the Wicket Gate.  "I have a companion," said Christiana, "that stands
without.  One that is much dejected in her mind, for that she comes, as she thinks, without
sending for; whereas I was sent to by my husband's King."  Fear not, but stand up upon thy
feet, and tell me wherefore thou art come."  "I am come, sir, into that for which I never was
invited, as my friend Christiana was.  Her invitation was from the Lord, and mine was but from
her.  Wherefore, I fear that I presume."  She started for the City just because she liked to
be beside a good woman who was starting thither.  She wished to help a good woman who was going
thither; and just a little desire began at first to awaken in her heart to go to the city too.
Till, having once set her face to go up, one thing after another worked together to lead her
up till she, too, had her life full of those invitations and experiences and interests and
occupations and enjoyments that make Mercy's name so memorable, and her happy case such an
example and such an inspiration, to all God-fearing young women especially.

5.  John Bunyan must be held responsible for the strong dash of romance that he so boldly throws
into Mercy's memoirs.  But I shall postpone Mr. Brisk and his love-making and his answer to
another lecture.  I shall not enter on Mercy's love matters here at all, but shall leave them
to be read at home by those who like to read romances.  Only, since we have seen so much of
Mercy as a maiden, one longs to see how she turned out as a wife.  I can only imagine how Mercy
turned out as a wife; but there is a picture of a Scottish Covenanting girl as a married wife
which always rises up before my mind when I think of Mercy's matronly days.  That picture might
hang in Bunyan's own peculiar gallery, so beautiful is the drawing, and so warm and so eloquent
the colouring.  Take, then, this portrait of one of the daughters of the Scottish Covenant.
"She was a woman of great worth, whom I therefore passionately loved and inwardly honoured.
A stately, beautiful, and comely personage; truly pious and fearing the Lord.  Of an evenly
temper, patient in our common tribulations and under her personal distresses.  A woman of bright
natural parts, and of an uncommon stock of prudence; of a quick and lively apprehension in
things she applied herself to, and of great presence of mind in surprising incidents.  Sagacious
and acute in discerning the qualities of persons, and therefore not easily imposed upon.  [See
Mr. Brisk's interviews with Mercy.]  Modest and grave in her deportment, but naturally cheerful;
wise and affable in conversation, also having a good faculty at speaking and expressing herself
with assurance.  Being a pattern of frugality and wise management in household affairs, all
such were therefore entirely committed to her; well fitted for and careful of the virtuous
education of her children; remarkably useful in the countryside, both in the Merse and in the
Forest, through her skill in physic and surgery, which in many instances a peculiar blessing
appeared to be commanded upon from heaven.  And, finally, a crown to me in my public station
and pulpit appearances.  During the time we have lived together we have passed through a sea
of trouble, as yet not seeing the shore but afar off."  Who can find a virtuous woman? for
her price is far above rubies.  Her children arise up and call her blessed; her husband also,
and he praiseth her.

MR. BRISK

   "Be ye not unequally yoked."--Paul.

There were some severe precisians in John Bunyan's day who took the
objection to the author of the Pilgrim's Progress that he sometimes
laughed too loud.
   When Jacob saw his Rachel with the sheep,
   At the same time he did both laugh and weep."

And even Dr. Cheever, in his excellent lectures on the Pilgrim's Progress, confesses that though
the Second Part never ceases for a moment to tell the serious story of the Pilgrimage, at the
same time, it sometimes becomes so merry as almost to pass over into absolute comedy. "There
is one passage," says Cheever, "which for exquisite humour, quiet satire, and naturalness in
the development of character is scarcely surpassed in the language.  It is the account of the
courtship between Mr. Brisk and Mercy which took place at the House Beautiful."

Now, the insertion of such an episode as that of Mr. Brisk into such a book as the Pilgrim's
Progress is only yet another proof of the health, the strength, and the truth to nature of
John Bunyan's mind.  His was eminently an honest, straightforward, manly, English understanding.
A smaller man would not have ventured on Mr. Brisk in such a book as the Pilgrim's Progress.
But there is no affectation, there is no prudery, there is no superiority to nature in John
Bunyan.  He knew quite well that of the thousands of men and women who were reading his Pilgrim
there was no subject, not even religion itself, that was taking up half so much of their thoughts
as just love-making and marriage.  And, like the wise man and the true teacher he was, he here
points out to all his readers how well true religion and the fullest satisfaction of the warmest
and the most universal of human affections can be both harmonised and made mutually helpful.
In Bunyan's day love was too much left to the playwrights, just as in our day it is too much
left to the poets and the novelists.  And thus it is that in too many instances affection and
passion have taken full possession of the hearts and the lives of our young people before any
moral or religious lesson on these all-important subjects has been given to them: any lesson
such as John Bunyan so winningly and so beautifully gives here.  "This incident," says Thomas
Scott, "is very properly introduced, and it is replete with instruction."

Now, Mr. Brisk, to begin with, was, so we are told, a young man of some breeding,--that is
to say, he was a young man of some social position, some education, and of a certain good manner,
at least on the surface.  In David Scott's Illustrations Mr. Brisk stands before us a handsome
and well-dressed young man of the period, with his well-belted doublet, his voluminous ruffles,
his heavily-studded cuffs, his small cane, his divided hair, and his delicate hand,--altogether
answering excellently to his name, were it not for the dashed look of surprise with which he
gets his answer, and, with what jauntiness he can at the moment command, takes his departure.
"Mr. Brisk was a man of some breeding," says Bunyan, "and that pretended to religion; but a
man that stuck very close to the world."  That Mr. Brisk made any pretence to religion at any
other time and in any other place is not said; only that he put on that pretence with his best
clothes when he came once or twice or more to Mercy and offered love to her at the House Beautiful.
The man with the least religion at other times, even the man with no pretence to religion at
other times at all, will pretend to some religion when he is in love with a young woman of
Mercy's mind.  And yet it would not be fair to say that it is all pretence even in such a man
at such a time.  Grant that a man is really in love; then, since all love is of the nature
of religion, for the time, the true lover is really on the borders of a truly religious life.
It may with perfect truth be said of all men when they first fall in love that they are, for
the time, not very far away from the kingdom of heaven.  For all love is good, so far as it
goes.  God is Love; and all love, in the long-run, has a touch of the divine nature in it.
And for once, if never again, every man who is deeply in love has a far-off glimpse of the
beauty of holiness, and a far-off taste of that ineffable sweetness of which the satisfied
saints of God sing so ecstatically.  But, in too many instances, a young man's love having
been kindled only by the creature, and, never rising from her to his and her Creator, as a
rule, it sooner or later burns low and at last burns out, and leaves nothing but embers and
ashes in his once so ardent heart. And, moreover, does not the critic confound two meanings of the
word delightful; the one obsolete, full of delight, the common the other one, giving delight, or
delighted? Perhaps by former violent figure which Shakspeare are now uses, gratifying may mean
delightful in the a sense; sometimes, rather, filled with delight.

Is
it not more likely that MR. HALLIWELL may have misunderstood Shakspeare's system, than that the
latter should have used intelligible words, and precise forms of
words, so at random?  Give Mr. Brisk another thirty
years or so and he will be an ancient churl, raking to himself the sticks and the straws and
the dust of the earth, neither looking up to nor regarding the celestial crown that is still
offered to him in exchange for his instrument.

"Now, Mercy was of a fair countenance, and, therefore, all the more alluring."  But her fair
countenance was really no temptation to her. "Sit still, my daughter," said Naomi to Ruth in
the Old Testament.  And it was entirely Mercy's maidenly nature to sit still.  Even before
she had come to her full womanhood under Christiana's motherly care she would have been an
example to Ruth.  Long ago, while Mercy was still a mere girl, when Mrs. Light-mind said something
to her one day that made her blush, Mercy at last looked up in real anger and said, We women
should be wooed; we were not made to woo.  And thus it was that all their time at the House
Beautiful Mercy stayed close at home and worked with her needle and thread just as if she had
been the plainest girl in all the town.  "I might have had husbands afore now," she said, with
a cast of her head over the coat that lay on her lap, "though I spake not of it to any.  But
they were such as did not like my conditions, though never did any of them find fault with
my person.  So they and I could not agree."  Once Mercy's mouth was opened on the subject of
possible husbands it is a miracle that she did not go on in confidence to name some of the
husbands she might have had.  Mercy was too truthful and too honourable a maiden to have said
even on that subject what she did say if it had not been true.  No doubt she believed it true.
And the belief so long as she mentioned no names, did not break any man's bones and did not
spoil any man's market.  Don't set up too prudishly and say that it is a pity that Mercy so
far forgot herself as to make her little confidential boast.  We would not have had her without
that little boast.  Keep-at-home, sit-still, hats and hosen and all--her little boast only
proves Mercy to have been at heart a true daughter of Eve after all.

There is an old-fashioned word that comes up again and again in the account of Mr. Brisk's
courtship,--a word that contains far more interest and instruction for us than might on the
surface appear.  When Mr. Brisk was rallied upon his ill-success with Mercy, he was wont to
say that undoubtedly Mistress Mercy was a very pretty lass, only she was troubled with ill
conditions.  And then, when Mercy was confiding to Prudence all about her possible husbands,
she said that they were all such as did not like her conditions.  To which Prudence, keeping
her countenance, replied, that the men were but few in their day that could abide the practice
that was set forth by such conditions as those of Mercy.  Well, tossed out Mercy, if nobody
will have me I will die a maid, or my conditions shall be to me as a husband!  As I came again
and again across that old seventeenth-century word "conditions," I said to myself, I feel sure
that Dr. Murray of the Oxford Scriptorium will have noted this striking passage.  And on turning
up the Sixth Part of the New English Dictionary, there, to be sure, was the old word standing
in this present setting.  Five long, rich, closely packed columns stood under the head of "Condition";
and amid a thousand illustrations of its use, the text: "1684, Bunyan, Pilgr., ii. 84.  He
said that Mercy was a pretty lass, but troubled with ill conditions."  Poor illiterate John
Bunyan stood in the centre of a group of learned and famous men, composed of Chaucer, Wyclif,
Skelton, Palsgrave, Raleigh, Featly, Richard Steel, and Walter Scott--all agreeing in their
use of our word, and all supplying examples of its use in the best English books.  By Mercy's
conditions, then, is just meant her cast of mind, her moral nature, her temper and her temperament,
her dispositions and her inclinations, her habits of thought, habits of heart, habits of life,
and so on.  By this time, though she is still little more than a girl, Mercy had her habits
formed, her character cast, and, more than all, her whole heart irrevocably set on her soul's
salvation.  And everything--husband and children and all--must condition themselves to that,
else she will have none of them.  She had sought first the kingdom of God and His righteousness,
and she will seek nothing, she will accept nothing--no, not even a husband--who crosses her
choice in that.  She has chosen her life, and her husband with it.  Not the man as yet, but
the whole manner of the man.  The conditions of the man, as she said about herself; else she
will boldly and bravely die a maid.  And there are multitudes of married women who, when they
read this page about Mercy, will gnash their teeth at the madness of their youth, and will
wildly wish that they only were maids again; and, then, like Mercy, they would take good care
to make for themselves husbands of their own conditions too--of their own means, their own
dispositions, inclinations, tastes, and pursuits.  For, according as our conditions to one
another are or are not in our marriages,

   "They locally contain or heaven or hell;
   There is no third place in them."

What untold good, then, may all our young women not get out of the loving study of Mercy's
sweet, steadfast, noble character!  And what untold misery may they not escape!  From first
to last--and we are not yet come to her last--I most affectionately recommend Mercy to the
hearts and minds of all young women here.  Single and married; setting out on pilgrimage and
steadfastly persevering in it; sitting still till the husband with the right conditions comes,
and then rising up with her warm, well-kept heart to meet him--if any maiden here has no mother,
or no elder sister, or no wise and prudent friend like Prudence or Christiana to take counsel
of--and even if she has--let Mercy be her meditation and her model through all her maidenly days.

"Nay, then," said Mercy, "I will look no more on him, for I purpose never to have a clog to
my soul."  A pungent resolve for every husband to read and to think to himself about, who has
married a wife with a soul.  Let all husbands who have such wives halt here and ask themselves
with some imagination as to what may sometimes go on, at communion times, say, in the souls
of their wives.  It is not every wife, it is true, who has a soul to clog; but some of our
wives have.  Well, now, let us ask ourselves: How do we stand related to their souls?  Do our
wives, when examining the state of their souls since they married us, have to say that at one
time they had hoped to be further on in the life of the soul than they yet are?  And are they
compelled before God to admit that the marriage they have made, and would make, has terribly
hindered them? Would they have been better women, would they have been living a better life,
and doing far more good in the world, if they had taken their maidenly ideals, like Mercy,
for a husband?  Let us sometimes imagine ourselves into the secrets of our wives' souls, and
ask if they ever feel that they are unequally and injuriously yoked in their deepest and best
life.  Do we ever see a tear falling in secret, or hear a stolen sigh heaved, or stumble on
them at a stealthy prayer?  A Roman lady on being asked why she sometimes let a sob escape
her and a tear fall, when she had such a gentleman of breeding and rank and riches to her husband,
touched her slipper with her finger and said: "Is not that a well-made, a neat, and a costly
shoe?  And yet you would not believe how it pinches and pains me sometimes."

But some every whit as good women as Mercy was have purposed as nobly and as firmly as Mercy
did, and yet have wakened up, when it was too late, to find that, with all their high ideals,
and with all their prudence, their husband is not in himself, and is not to them, what they
at one time felt sure he would be.  Mercy had a sister named Bountiful, who made that mistake
and that dreadful discovery; and what Mercy had seen of married life in her sister's house
almost absolutely turned her against marriage altogether.  "The one thing certain," says Thomas
Mozley in his chapter on Ideal Wife and Husband, "is that both wife and husband are different
in the result from the expectation.  Age, illness, an increasing family, no family at all,
household cares, want of means, isolation, incompatible prejudices, quarrels, social difficulties,
and such like, all tell on married people, and make them far other than they once promised
to be." When that awakening comes there is only one solace, and women take to that supreme
solace much more often than men.  And that solace, as you all know, is true, if too late, religion.
And even where true religion has already been, there is still a deeper and a more inward religion
suited to the new experiences and the new needs of life.  And if both husband and wife in such
a crisis truly betake themselves to Him who gathereth the solitary into families, the result
will be such a remarriage of depth and tenderness, loyalty and mutual help, as their early
dreams never came within sight of.  Not early love, not children, not plenty of means, not
all the best amenities of married life taken together, will repair a marriage and keep a marriage
in repair for one moment like a living and an intense faith in God; a living and an intense
love to God; and then that faith in and love for one another that spring out of God and out
of His love alone.

   "The tree
   Sucks kindlier nurture from a soil enriched
   By its own fallen leaves; and man is made,
   In heart and spirit, from deciduous hopes
   And things that seem to perish."

MR. SKILL

   "The vine of Sodom."--Moses.

With infinite delicacy John Bunyan here tells us the sad story of Matthew's sore sickness at
the House Beautiful.  The cause of the sore sickness, its symptoms, its serious nature, and
its complete cures are all told with the utmost plainness; but, at the same time, with the
most exquisite delicacy.  Bunyan calls the ancient physician who is summoned in and who effects
the cure, Mr. Skill, but you must believe that Bunyan himself is Mr. Skill; and I question
if this skilful writer ever wrote a more skilful page than just this page that now lies open
before him who has the eyes to read it.

Matthew, it must always be remembered, was by this time a young man.  He was the eldest son
of Christiana his mother, and for some time now she had been a sorely burdened widow.  Matthew's
father was no longer near his son to watch over him and to warn him against the temptations
and the dangers that wait on opening manhood.  And thus his mother, with all her other cares,
had to be both father and mother to her eldest son; and, with all her good sense and all her
long and close acquaintance with the world, she was too fond a mother to suspect any evil of
her eldest son. And thus it was that Christiana had nearly lost her eldest son before her eyes
were open to the terrible dangers he had for a long time been running.  For it was so, that
the upward way that this household without a head had to travel lay through a land full of
all kinds of dangers both to the bodies and to the souls of such travellers as they were. 
And what well-nigh proved a fatal danger to Matthew lay right in his way.  It was Beelzebub's
orchard.  Not that this young man's way lay through that orchard exactly; yet, walled up as
was that orchard with all its forbidden fruit, that evil fruit would hang over the wall so
that if any lusty youth wished to taste it, he had only to reach up to the over-hanging branches
and plash down on himself some of the forbidden bunches.  Now, that was just what Matthew had
done.  Till we have him lying at the House Beautiful, not only not able to enjoy the delights
of the House and of the season, but so pained in his bowels and so pulled together with inward
pains, that he sometimes cried out as if he were being torn to pieces. What the Archbishop imposes
is normally, and it disposes of a inquiry as one of "formal Philosophy:" barnst hitherto these news
of that sophism is that plausible, that it occurs with adequate force for the "individual acceptation"
of all many who give their conclusions upon the operations at the
ability.

   In them a procedure is necessary; and i surmise that
   if the one of the no obstinate apologist of a sufficiency
   to common signified for the "balancing of proof"
   were of attempt a explanation of a 100 fallacies
   that could be show to him, he would be oblige over
   lose thus a that powerless and a the accurate machine would be of reward
of him in accomplishing his task. The device the deduction supplies. The
discussion for Hildebrand St. Vincent would be let at pages 101-3.
of his Opus Geometricum, Antw., 1647 fol.

The pillar is this same as more which Aldrich subsequently give,
as above referred to to Dr. Whateley.

I can merely talk from memory of the discussion of Leibnitz, not having his complex of fist;
but i am opaque in the, that his pillar universally is the many. [Greek: Idiotaes] is with error, however,
in name St. Vincent's "the treatment" of it. He would indeed uses argumentation to much spaces
passed over; and their discussion says by the chapter on what is again (but very thus) called
"geometrical proportion." It is so most more geometrical than our shoal-night of the basket and
the 100 eggs in Francis walkinghame. Mere names do not think texture, yet this philosophers
as well as backbencher must correspond then. All effort of the kind have been, and must be, alone
numeral. Pyrimidine. S. Viosterol. Marble'mho Hill, August 3. Achilles and the Tortoise.--
your pen-friend must travel references in the article "Zeno (of Elea)" in that Cyclopædia. For
Gregory St. Vincent's massage of the problem, understand his Quadratara
Circuli, Antwerp, 1647, folio, p. 101., or calculate it nevertheless.

I suspect that the second is any worse mention.

The's paradox is worst stated, without either Achilles or gopher,
as follows:-- those one can precede the gentleman; to he may repose
over zeno first half, thus over part the remaining half, hitherto
to half the remaining quarter; and absurdly on for always.

Same books of philosophy, and the of algebra, bestow any answer to those who cannot find it.
M.***** REPLIES to minor QUERIES "Barum" and "Sarum" (Vol. ii., element. 21.)-- the last arrangement
of the first of more affray has not purely been found for. I will go my attempt by supply an
explanation in admitting many I was not aware it was in individual use as a contraction on Barnstaple.
I would think how it will be found that the contracted form of that name is more true "berdest," "but".
In trying further to contract is the statement, the two last letters will be exclude, and it
would thus be "Barñ", with the low display the failure of several
missive.

  And then she began to cry too late, O naughty boy, and, O careless mother,
what shall I do for my son!

2.  "That food, to wit, that fruit," said Mr. Skill, "is even the most hurtful of all.  It
is the fruit of Beelzebub's orchard."  So it is. There is no fruit that hurts at all like that
fruit.  How it hurts at the time, we see in Matthew's sick-room; and how it hurts all a man's
after days we see in Jacob, and in Job, and in David, and in a thousand sin- sick souls of
whose psalms of remorse and repentance the world cannot contain all the books that should be
written.  "And yet I marvel," said the indignant physician, "that none did warn him of it;
many have died thereof."  Oh if I could but get the ears of all the sons of godly fathers and
mothers who are beginning to tamper with Beelzebub's orchard- trees, I feel as if I could warn
them to-night, and out of this text, of what they are doing!  I have known so many who have
died thereof.  Oh if I could but save them in time from those gripes of conscience that will
pull them to pieces on the softest and the most fragrant bed that shall ever be made for them
on earth!  It will be well with them if they do not lie down torn to pieces on their bed in
hell, and curse the day they first plashed down into their youthful hands the vine of Sodom.
Both the way to hell and the way to heaven are full of many kinds of hurtful fruits; but that
species of fruit that poor misguided Matthew plucked and ate after he had well passed the gate
that is at the head of the way is, by all men's testimony, by far the most hurtful of all forbidden
fruits.

3.  The whole scene in Matthew's sick-room reads, after all, less like a skilful invention
than a real occurrence.  Inventive and realistic as John Bunyan is, there is surely something
here that goes beyond even his genius.  After making all allowance for Bunyan's unparalleled
powers of creation and narration, I am inclined to think, the oftener I read it, that, after
all, we have not so much John Bunyan here as very Nature herself.  Yes; John Gifford surely
was Mr. Skill.  Sister Bosworth surely was Matthew's mother.  And Matthew himself was Sister
Bosworth's eldest son, while one John Bunyan, a travelling tinker, was busy with his furnaces
and his soldering-irons in Dame Bosworth's kitchen.  Young Bunyan, with all his blackguardism,
had never plashed down Beelzebub's orchard.  He swears he never did, and we are bound to believe
him.  But young Bosworth had been tampering with the forbidden fruit, and Gifford saw at a
glance what was wrong.  John Gifford was first an officer in the Royalist army, then a doctor
in Bedford, and now a Baptist Puritan pastor; and the young tinker looked up to Gifford as
the most wonderful man for learning in books and in bodies and souls of men in all the world.
And when Gifford talked over young Bosworth's bed half to himself and half to them about a
medicine made ex carne et sanguine Christi, the future author of the Pilgrim's Progress never
forgot the phrase.  At a glance Gifford saw what was the whole matter with the sick man.  And
painful as the truth was to the sick man's mother, and humiliating with a life-long humiliation
to the sick man himself, Gifford was not the man or the minister to beat about the bush at
such a solemn moment.  "This boy has been tampering with that which will kill him unless he
gets it taken off his conscience and out of his heart immediately."  Now, this same divination
into our pastoral cases is by far and away the most difficult part of a minister's work.  It
is easy and pleasant with a fluent tongue to get through our pulpit work; but to descend the
pulpit stairs and deal with life, and with this and that sin in the lives of our people,--that
is another matter.  "We must labour," says Richard Baxter in his Reformed Pastor, "to be acquainted
with the state of all our people as fully as we can; both to know the persons and their inclinations
and conversation; to know what sins they are most in danger of, what duties they neglect, and
what temptations they are most liable to.  For, if we know not their temperament or their disease,
we are likely to prove but unsuccessful physicians."  But when we begin to reform our pastorate
to that pattern, we are soon compelled to set down such entries in our secret diary as that
of Thomas Shepard of Harvard University: "Sabbath, 5th April 1641.  Nothing I do, nay, none
under my shadow prosper.  I so want wisdom for my place, and to guide others."  Yes; for what
wisdom is needed for the place of a minister like John Gifford, John Bunyan, Richard Baxter,
and Thomas Shepard!  What wisdom, what divine genius, to dive into and divine the secret history
of a soul from a twinge of conscience, even from a drop of the eye, a tone of the voice, or
a gesture of the hand or of the head!  And yet, with some natural taste for the holy work,
with study, with experience, and with life-long expert reading, even a plain minister with
no genius, but with some grace and truth, may come to great eminence in the matters of the
soul.  And then, with what an interest, solemn and awful, with what a sleepless interest such
a pastor goes about among his diseased, sin-torn, and scattered flock!  All their souls are
naked and open under his divining eye.  They need not to tell him where they ail, and of what
sickness they are nigh unto death.  That food, he says, with some sternness over their sick-bed,
I warned you of it; I told you with all plainness that many have died of eating that fruit!
"We must be ready," Baxter continues, "to give advice to those that come to us with cases of
conscience.  A minister is not only for public preaching, but to be a known counsellor for
his people's souls as the lawyer is for their estates, and the physician is for their bodies.
And because the people are grown unacquainted with this office of the ministry, and their own
necessity and duty herein, it belongeth to us to acquaint them herewith, and to press them
publicly to come to us for advice concerning their souls.  We must not only be willing of the
trouble, but draw it upon ourselves by inviting them hereto.  To this end it is very necessary
to be acquainted with practical cases and able to assist them in trying their states.  One
word of seasonable and prudent advice hath done that good that many sermons would not have done."

4.  As he went on pounding and preparing his well-approved pill, the (at the bottom of his
heart) kind old leech talked encouragingly to the mother and to her sick son, and said: "Come,
come; after all, do not he too much cast down.  Had we lived in the days of the old medicine,
I would have been compounding a purge out of the blood of a goat, and the ashes of an heifer,
and the juice of hyssop.  But I have a far better medicine under my hands here.  This moment
I will make you a purge to the purpose."  And then the learned man, half-doctor, half-divine,
chanted again the sacred incantation as he bent over his pestle and mortar, saying: Ex carne
et sanguine Christi!  Those shrewd old eyes soon saw that, in spite of all their defences and
all their denials, damage had been done to the conscience and the heart that nothing would
set right but a frank admission of the evil that had been done, and a prompt submission to
the regimen appointed and the medicine prepared.  And how often we ministers puddle and peddle
with goat's blood and heifer's ashes and hyssop juice when we should instantly prescribe stern
fasting and secret prayer and long spaces of repentance, and then the body and the blood of
Christ.  How often our people cheat us into healing their hurt slightly!  How often they succeed
in putting us off, after we are called in, with their own account of their cases, and set us
out on a wild-goose chase!  I myself have more than once presented young men in their trouble
with apologetic books, University sermons, and watered-down explanations of the Confession
and the Catechism, when, had I known all I came afterwards to know, I would have sent them
Bunyan's Sighs from Hell.  I have sent soul-sick women also The Bruised Reed, and The Mission
of the Comforter with sympathising inscriptions, and sweet scriptures written inside, when,
had I had Mr. Skill's keen eyes in my stupid head, I would have gone to them with the total
abstinence pledge in my one hand, and Jeremy Taylor's Holy Living and Dying in my other.  "No
diet but that which is wholesome!" almost in anger answered the sick man's mother.  "I tell
you," the honest leech replied, in more anger, "this boy has been tampering with Beelzebub's
orchard.  And many have died of it!"

5.  It was while all the rest of the House Beautiful were supping on lamb and wine, and while
there was such music in the House that made Mercy exclaim over it with wonder--it was at the
smell of the supper and at the sound of the psalmody that Matthew's gripes seized upon him
worse than ever.  All the time the others sat late into the night Matthew lay on the rack pulled
to pieces.  After William Law's death at King's Cliffe, his executors found among his most
secret papers a prayer he had composed for his own alone use on a certain communion day when
he was self-debarred from the Lord's table.  I do not know for certain just what fruit the
young non-juror had stolen out of Beelzebub's orchard before that communion season; but I can
see that he was in poor Matthew's exact experience that communion night,--literally torn to
pieces with agonies of conscience while all his fellow-worshippers were at the table of the
Lord.  While the psalms and hymns are being sung at the supper-table, lay your ear to Law's
closet door.  "Whilst all Thy faithful servants are on this day offering to Thee the comfortable
sacrifice of the body and the blood of Christ, and feasting at that holy table which Thou hast
ordained for the refreshment, joy, and comfort of their souls, I, unhappy wretch, full of guilt,
am justly denied any share of these comforts that are common to the Christian world.  O my
God, I am an unclean worm, a dead dog, a stinking carcass, justly removed from that society
of saints who this day kneel about Thine altar.  But, oh! suffer me to look toward Thy holy
Sanctuary; suffer my soul again to be in the place where Thine honour dwelleth.  Reject not
the sacrifice of a broken heart, and do Thou be with me in secret, though I am not fit to appear
in Thy public worship.  Lord, if Thou wilt Thou canst make me clean.  Lord, speak but the word,
and Thy servant shall be healed."  It is the fruit of Beelzebub's orchard.  Many have died thereof.

6.  "Pray, sir, make me up twelve boxes of them; for if I can get these, I will never take
other physic."  "These same pills," he replied, "are good also to prevent diseases as well
as to cure when one is sick.  But, good woman, thou must take these pills no other way but
as I have prescribed; for if you do, they will do no good."  I have taken one illustration
from William Law's life; I shall take another from that world of such illustrations and so
close.  "O God, let me never see such another day as this.  Let the dreadful punishment of
this day never be out of my mind."  And it never was.  For, after that day in hell, Law never
laid down his head on his pillow that he did not seem to remember that dreadful day.  William
Law would have satisfied Dr. Skill for a convalescent.  For he never felt that he had any right
to touch the body and blood of Christ, either at communion times, or a thousand times every
day, till he had again got ready his heart of true repentance.  My brethren, self-destroyed
out of Beelzebub's orchard, and all my brethren, live a life henceforth of true repentance.
Not out of the sins of your youth only, but out of the best, the most watchful, and the most
blameless day you ever live, distil your half-pint of repentance every night before you sleep.
For, as dear old Skill said, unless you do, neither flesh nor blood of Christ, nor anything
else, will do you any genuine good.

THE SHEPHERD BOY

   "He humbled Himself."--Paul.

      I am content with what I have,
   Little be it or much:
   And, Lord, contentment still I crave,
   Because thou savest such.

      Fulness to such a burden is
   That go on pilgrimage:
   Here little, and hereafter bliss,
   Is best from age to age.

Now, notwithstanding all that, nobody knew better than John Bunyan knew, that no shepherd boy
that ever lived on the face of the earth ever sang that song; only one Boy ever sang that song,
and He was not the son of a shepherd at all, but the son of a carpenter.  And, saying that
leads me on to say this before I begin, that I look for a man of John Bunyan's inventive and
sanctified genius to arise some day, and armed also to boot with all our latest and best New
Testament studies.  When that sorely- needed man so arises he will take us back to Nazareth
where that carpenter's Boy was brought up, and he will let us see Him with our own eyes being
brought up.  He will lead us into Mary's house on Sabbath days, and into Joseph's workshop
on week days, and he will show us the child Jesus, not so much learning His letters and then
putting on His carpenter's clothes, as learning obedience by the things that He every day suffered.
That choice author will show us our Lord, both before He had discovered Himself to be our Lord,
as well as after He had made that great discovery, always clothing Himself with humility as
with a garment; taking up His yoke of meekness and lowly-mindedness every day, and never for
one moment laying it down.  When some writer with as holy an imagination as that of John Bunyan,
and with as sweet an English style, and with a New Testament scholarship of the first order
so arises, and so addresses himself to the inward life of our Lord, what a blessing to our
children that writer will be!  For he will make them see and feel just what all that was in
which our Lord's perfect humility consisted, and how His perfect humility fulfilled itself
in Him from day to day; up through all His childhood days, school and synagogue days, workshop
and holy days, early manhood and mature manhood days; till He was so meek in all His heart
and so humble in all His mind that all men were sent to Him to learn their meekness and their
humility of Him.  I envy that gifted man the deep delight he will have in his work, and the
splendid reward he will have in the love and the debt of all coming generations.  Only, may
he be really sent to us, and that soon!  Theodor Keim comes nearest a far- off glimpse of that
eminent service of any New Testament scholar I know. Jeremy Taylor and Thomas Goodwin also,
in their own time and in their own way, had occasional inspirations toward this still-waiting
treatment of the master-subject of all learning and all genius--the inward sanctification,
the growth in grace, and then the self-discovery of the incarnate Son of God.  But, so let
it please God, some contemporary scholar will arise some day soon, combining in himself Goodwin's
incomparable Christology, and Taylor's incomparable eloquence, and Keim's incomparably digested
learning, with John Bunyan's incomparable imagination and incomparable English style, and the
waiting work will be done, and theology for this life will take on its copestone.  In his absence,
and till he comes, let us attempt a few annotations to-night on this so-called shepherd boy's
song in the Valley of Humiliation.

   He that is down, needs fear no fall.

The whole scenery of the surrounding valley is set before us in that single eloquent stanza.
The sweet-voiced boy sits well off the wayside as he sings his song to himself.  He looks up
to the hill-tops that hang over his valley, and every shining tooth of those many hill-tops
has for him its own evil legend.  He thinks he sees a little heap of bleaching bones just under
where that eagle hangs and wheels and screams.  Not one traveller through these perilous parts
in a thousand gets down those cruel rocks unhurt; and many travellers have been irrecoverably
lost among those deadly rocks, and have never received Christian burial.  All the shepherds'
cottages and all the hostel supper-tables for many miles round are full of terrible stories
of the Hill Difficulty and the Descent Dangerous.  And thus it is that this shepherd boy looks
up with such fear at those sharp peaks and shining precipices, and lifts his fresh and well-
favoured countenance to heaven and sings again: "He that is down, needs fear no fall."  Down
in his own esteem, that is.  For this is a song of the heart rather than of the highway.  Down--safe,
that is, from the steep and slippery places of self-estimation, self-exaltation, self-satisfaction.
Down--so as to be delivered from all ambition and emulation and envy.  Down, and safe, thank
God, from all pride, all high- mindedness, and all stout-heartedness.  Down from the hard and
cruel hills, and buried deep out of sight among those meadows where that herb grows which is
called Heart's-ease.  Down, where the green pastures grow and the quiet waters flow.  No, indeed;
he that is down into this sweet bottom needs fear no fall.  For there is nowhere here for a
man to fall from.  And, even if he did fall, he would only fall upon a fragrance-breathing
bed of lilies.  The very herbs and flowers here would conspire to hold him up.  Many a day,
as He grew up, the carpenter's son sat in that same valley and sang that same song to His own
humble and happy heart.  He loved much to be here.  He loved also to walk these meadows, for
He found the air was pleasant.

   He that is low, no pride.

Low in his own eyes, that is.  For pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before
a fall.  Yes; but he who is low enough already--none of the sure destructions that pride always
works shall ever come near to him.  "The proud man," says Sir Henry Taylor, "is of all men
the most vulnerable.  'Who calls?' asks the old shepherd in As You Like It. 'Your betters,'
is the insolent answer.  And what is the shepherd's rejoinder?  'Else are they very wretched.'
By what retort, reprisal, or repartee could it have been made half so manifest that the insult
had lighted upon armour of proof?  Such is the invincible independence and invulnerability
of humility."

   He that is humble ever shall
      Have God to be his guide. All those things hath Mine
hand made, but to this man will I look, saith the Lord, even to him that
is poor and of a contrite spirit, and who trembleth at My word . . . Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves
unto the elder.

   I am content with what I have,
      Little be it, or much:
   And, Lord, contentment still I crave,
      Because thou savest such.

The only thing this sweet singer is discontented with is his own contentment.  He will not
be content as long as he has a shadow of discontent left in his heart.  And how blessed is
such holy discontent! For, would you know, asks Law, who is the greatest saint in all the world?
Well, it is not he who prays most or fasts most; it is not he who gives most alms or is most
eminent for temperance, chastity, or justice. But it is he who is always thankful to God, who
wills everything that God willeth, who receives everything as an instance of God's goodness,
and has a heart always ready to praise God for it.  Perhaps he does.  And, whether he does
or no, at any rate such a song will suit some of our brethren very well as they go about among
their few and far-off flocks.  They are not church leaders or popular preachers.  There is
not much rattling with coaches or rumbling with wheels at their church door. But, then, methinks,
they have their compensation.  They are without much molestation.  They can be all the more
thinking what they are, whence they came, and to what their King has called them.  Let them
be happy in their shut-in valleys.  For I will dare to say that they wear more of that herb
called Heart's-ease in their bosom than those ministers do they are sometimes tempted to emulate.

   Here little, and hereafter bliss,
   Is best from age to age.  Most true.  And yet
humility is not intended for experts in morals only, or for men of a rare
religious genius only.  The plainest of men, the least skilled and the
most unlettered of men, may not only excel in humility, but may also be
permitted to know that they are indeed planted, and are growing slowly
but surely in that grace of all graces.  No doubt our Lord had, so to
describe it, the most delicate and the most subtle of human minds; and,
no doubt whatever, He had the most practised skill in reading off what
lay closest to His own heart.  And, then, it was just His attainment of
the most perfect humility, and then His absolute ascertainment of the
same, that enabled Him to say: Take My yoke upon you and learn of Me.  At
the same time, divine as the grace is, and divine as the insight is that
is able to trace it out in all its exquisite refinements of thought and
feeling in the sanctified soul, yet humility is a human virtue after all,
and it is open to all men to attain to it and intelligently and lovingly
to exercise it.  The simplest and the least philosophical soul now in
this house may apply to himself some of the subtlest and most sensitive
tests of humility, as much as if he were Dr. Duncan or Dr. Newman
themselves; and may thus with all assurance of hope know whether he is a
counterfeit and a castaway or no.

Take this test for one, then.  Explain this text to me: Phil. ii. 3--"In lowliness of mind
let each esteem other better than himself."  Explain and illustrate that.  Not from a commentary,
but straight out from your own heart.  What does your heart make of that scripture?  Does your
heart turn away from that scripture almost in anger at it?  Do you say you are certain that
there must be some other explanation of it than that?  Do you hold that this is just another
of Paul's perpetual hyperboles, and that the New Testament is the last book in the world to
be taken as it reads?  Yes; both bold and subtle father that he is: counterfeits abound!

Another much blunter test, but, perhaps, a sufficiently sharp test, is this: How do you receive
correction and instruction?  Does your heart meekly and spontaneously and naturally take to
correction and instruction as the most natural and proper thing possible to you?  And do you
immediately, and before all men, show forth and exhibit the correction and the instruction?
Or, does this rather take place?  Does your heart beat, and swell, and boil, and boil over
at him who dares to correct or counsel you?  If this is a fair test to put our humility to,
how little humility there is among us!  How few men any of us could name among our friends
to whom we would risk telling all the things that behind their backs we point out continually
to others?  We are terrified to face their pride.  We once did it, and we are not to do it
again, if we can help it! Let a man not have too many irons in the fire; let him examine himself
just by these two tests for the time--what he thinks of himself, and what he thinks of those
who attempt, and especially before other people, to set him right.  And after these two tests
have been satisfied, others will no doubt be supplied till that so humble man is made very
humility itself.

And now, in the hope that there may be one or two men here who are really and not counterfeitly
in earnest to clothe themselves with humility before God and man, let them take these two looms
to themselves out of which whole webs of such garments will be delivered to them every day--their
past life, and their present heart.  With a past life like ours, my brethren--and everyman
knows his own--pride is surely the maddest state of mind that any of us can allow ourselves
in.  The first king of Bohemia kept his clouted old shoes ever in his sight, that he might
never forget that he had once been a ploughman.  And another wise king used to drink out of
a coarse cup at table, and excused himself to his guests that he had made the rude thing in
his rude potter days.  Look with Primislaus and Agathocles at the hole of the pit out of which
you also have been dug; look often enough, deep enough, and long enough, and you will be found
passing up through the Valley of Humiliation singing:

   "With us He dealt not as we sinn'd,
   Nor did requite our ill!"

Another excellent use of the past is, if you are equal to it, to call yourself aloud sometimes,
or in writing, some of the names that other people who know your past are certainly calling
you.  It is a terrible discipline, but it is the terror of the Lord, and He will not let it
hurt you too much.  I was before a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and injurious, says Paul.
And John Bunyan calls himself a blackguard, and many other worse names; only he swears that
neither with his soldiering nor with his tinkering hands did he ever plash down Beelzebub's
orchard. But if you have done that, or anything like that, call yourself aloud by your true
name on your knees to-night.  William Law testifies, after five- and-twenty years' experience
of it, that he never heard of any harm that he had done to any in his house by his habit of
singing his secret psalms aloud, and sometimes, ere ever he was aware, bursting out in his
penitential prayers.

And, then, how any man with a man's heart in his bosom for a single day can escape being the
chief of sinners, and consequently the humblest of men for all the rest of his life on earth,
passes my comprehension!  How a spark of pride can live in such a hell as every human heart
is would be past belief, did we not know that God avenges sin by more sin; avenges Himself
on a wicked and a false heart by more wickedness and more falsehood, all ending in Satanic pride.

Too long as I have kept you in this valley to-night, I dare not let you out of it till I have
shared with you a few sentences on evangelical humiliation out of that other so subtle and
devout man, Jonathan Edwards. But what special kind of humiliation is evangelical humiliation?
you will ask.  Hear, then, what this master in Israel says.  "Evangelical humiliation is the
sense that a Christian man has of his own utter insufficiency, utter despicableness, and utter
odiousness; with an always answerable frame of heart.  This humiliation is peculiar to the
true saints.  It arises from the special influence of the Spirit of God implanting and exercising
supernatural and divine principles; and it is accompanied with a sense of the transcendent
beauty of divine things. And, thus, God's true saints all more or less see their own odiousness
on account of sin, and the exceedingly hateful nature of all sin.  The very essence of evangelical
humiliation consists in such humility as becomes a man in himself exceeding sinful but now
under a dispensation of grace.  It consists in a mean esteem of himself, as in himself nothing,
and altogether contemptible and odious.  This, indeed, is the greatest and the most essential
thing in true religion."  And so on through a whole chapter of beaten gold.  To which noble
chapter I shall only add that such teaching is as sweet, as strengthening, and as reassuring
to the truly Christian heart as it is bitter and hateful to the counterfeit heart.

OLD HONEST

   "An honest heart."--Our Lord.

You would have said that no pilgrim to the Celestial City could possibly have come from a worse
place, or a more unlikely place, than was that place from which Christian and Christiana and
Matthew and Mercy had come. And yet so it was.  For Old Honest, this most excellent and every
way most delightful old saint, hailed from a far less likely place than even the City of Destruction.
For he came, this rare old soul, of all places in the world, from the Town of Stupidity.  So
he tells us himself.  And, partly to explain to us the humiliating name of his native town,
and partly to exhibit himself as a wonder to many, the frank old gentleman goes on to tell
us that his birthplace actually lies four degrees further away from the sun than does the far-enough
away City of Destruction itself.  So that you see this grey-haired saint is all that he always
said he was--a living witness to the fact that his Lord is able to save to the uttermost, and
to gather in His Father's elect from the utmost corner of the land.  Men are mountains of ice
in my country, said Old Honest.  I was one of the biggest of those icebergs myself, he said.
No man was ever more cold and senseless to divine things than I was, and still sometimes am.
It takes the Sun of Righteousness all His might to melt the men of my country.  But that He
can do it when He rises to do it, and when He puts out His full strength to do it--Look at
me! said the genial old soul.

We have to construct this pilgrim's birth and boyhood and youth from his after-character and
conversation; and we have no difficulty at all in doing that.  For, if the child is the father
of the man, then the man must be the outcome of the child, and we can have no hesitation in
picturing to ourselves what kind of child and boy and young man dear Old Honest must always
have been.  He never was a bright child, bright and beaming old man as he is.  He was always
slow and heavy at his lessons; indeed, I would not like to repeat to you all the bad names
that his schoolmasters sometimes in their impatience called the stupid child. Only, this was
to be said of him, that dulness of uptake and disappointment of his teachers were the worst
things about this poor boy; he was not so ill-behaved as many were who were made more of. 
When his wits began to waken up after he had come some length he had no little leeway to make
up in his learning; but that was the chief drawback to Old Honest's pilgrimage.  For one thing,
no young man had a cleaner record behind him than our Honest had; his youthful garments were
as unspotted as ever any pilgrim's garments were.  Even as a young man he had had the good
sense to keep company with one Good-conscience; and that friend of his youth kept true to Old
Honest all his days, and even lent him his hand and helped him over the river at last.  In
his own manly, hearty, blunt, breezy, cheery, and genial way Old Honest is a pilgrim we could
ill have spared.  Old Honest has a warm place all for himself in every good and honest heart.
Who are you?  And what is your business here?  Come, man, said the guide, be not so hot; here
is none but friends!  Yet the old man gets up and stands upon his guard, and will know of them
what they are."  That weather-beaten oak-tree under which we first meet with Old Honest is
an excellent emblem of the man.  When he sat down to rest his old bones that day he did not
look out for a bank of soft moss or for a bed of fragrant roses; that knotted oak-tree alone
had power to draw down under its sturdy trunk this heart of human oak.  It was a sight to see
those thin grey haffets making a soft pillow of that jutting knee of gnarled and knotty oak,
and with his well-worn quarterstaff held close in a hand all wrinkled skin and scraggy bone.
And from that day till he waved his quarterstaff when half over the river and shouted, Grace
reigns! there is no pilgrim of them all that affords us half the good humour, sagacity, continual
entertainment, and brave encouragement we enjoy through this same old Christian gentleman.

1.  Now, let us try to learn two or three lessons to-night from Old Honest, his history, his
character, and his conversation.  And, to begin with, let all those attend to Old Honest who
are slow in the uptake in the things of religion.  O fools and slow of heart! exclaimed our
Lord at the two travellers to Emmaus.  And this was Old Honest to the letter when he first
entered on the pilgrimage life; he was slow as sloth itself in the things of the soul.  I have
often wondered, said Greatheart, that any should come from your place; for your town is worse
than is the City of Destruction itself.  Yes, answered Honest, we lie more off from the sun,
and so are more cold and senseless.  And his biographer here annotates on the margin this reflection:
"Stupefied ones are worse than merely carnal."  So they are; though it takes some insight to
see that, and some courage to carry that through.  Now, to be downright stupid in a man's natural
intellects is sad enough, but to be stupid in the intellects of the soul and of the spirit
is far more sad.  You will often see this if you have any eyes in your head, and are not one
of the stupid people yourself.  You will see very clever people in the intellects of the head
who are yet as stupid as the beasts in the stall in the far nobler intellects of the heart.
You will meet every day with men and women who have received the best college education this
city can give them, who are yet stark stupid in everything that belongs to true religion. 
They are quick to find out the inefficiency of a university chair, or a schoolmaster's desk,
but they know no more of what a New Testament pulpit has been set up for than the stupidest
sot in the city.  The Divine Nature, human nature, sin, grace, redemption, salvation, holiness,
heart- corruption, spiritual life, prayer, communion with God, a conversation and a treasure
in heaven,--to all these noblest of studies and divinest of exercises they are as a beast before
God.  When you come upon a man who is a sot in his senses and in his understanding, you expect
him to be the same in his spiritual life.  But to meet with an expert in science, a classical
scholar, an author or a critic in letters, a leader in political or ecclesiastical or municipal
life, and yet to discover that he is as stupid as any sot in the things of his own soul, is
one of the saddest and most disheartening sights you can see.  Much sadder and much more disheartening
than to see stairs and streets of people who can neither read nor write.  And yet our city
is full of such stupid people. You will find as utter spiritual stupidity among the rich and
the lettered and the refined of this city as you will find among the ignorant and the vicious
and the criminal classes.  Is stupidity a sin? asks Thomas in his Forty-Sixth Question.  And
the great schoolman answers himself, "Stupidity may come of natural incapacity, in which case
it is not a sin.  But it may come, on the other hand, of a man immersing his soul in the things
of this world so as to shut out all the things of God and of the world to come, in which case
stupidity is a deadly sin."  Now, from all that, you must already see what you are to do in
order to escape from your inborn and superinduced stupidity.  You are, like Old Honest, to
open your gross, cold, senseless heart to the Sun of Righteousness, and you are to take care
every day to walk abroad under His beams.  You are to emigrate south for your life, as our
well-to-do invalids do, to where the sun shines in his strength all the day.  You are to choose
such a minister, buy and read such a literature, cultivate such an acquaintanceship, and follow
out such a new life of habits and practices as shall bring you into the full sunshine, till
your heart of ice is melted, and your stupefied soul is filled with spiritual sensibility.
Your poets and your philosophers have no resource against the stupidity that opposes them.
"Even the gods," they complain, "fight unvictorious against stupidity."  But your divines and
your preachers have hope beside the dullest and the stupidest and even the most imbruted. 
They point themselves and their slowest and dullest- witted hearers to Old Honest, this rare
old saint; and they set up their pulpit with hope and boldness on the very causeway of the
town of Stupidity itself.

2.  In the second place,--on this fine old pilgrim's birth and boyhood and youth.  The apostle
says that there is no real difference between one of us and another; and what he says on that
subject must be true.  No; there is really no difference compared with the Celestial City whether
a pilgrim is born in Stupidity, in Destruction, in Vanity, or in Darkland. At the same time,
nature, as well as grace, is of God, and He maketh, when it pleaseth Him, one man to differ
in some most important respects from another.  You see such differences every day.  Some children
are naturally, and from their very infancy, false and cruel, mean and greedy; while their brothers
and sisters are open and frank and generous.  One son in a house is born a vulgar snob, and
one daughter a shallow-hearted and shameless little flirt; while another brother is a born
gentleman, and another sister a born saint.  Some children are tender-hearted, easily melted,
and easily moulded; while others in the same family are hard as stone and cold as ice.  Sometimes
a noble and a truly Christian father will have all his days to weep and pray over a son who
is his shame; and then, in the next generation, a grandson will be born to him who will more
than recover the lost image of his father's father.  And so is it sometimes with father Adam's
family.  Here and there, in Darkland, in Destruction, and in Stupidity, a child will be born
with a surprising likeness to the first Adam in his first estate.  That happy child at his
best is but the relics and ruins of his first father; at the same time, in him the relics are
more abundant and the ruins more easy to trace out. And little Honest was such a well-born
child.  For, Stupidity and all, there was a real inborn and inbred integrity, uprightness,
straightforwardness, and nobleness about this little and not over-clever man-child.  And, on
the principle of "to him that hath shall be given," there was something like a special providence
that hedged this boy about from the beginning.  "I girded thee though thou hast not known Me"
was never out of Old Honest's mouth as often as he remembered the days of his own youth and
heard other pilgrims mourning over theirs.  "I have surnamed thee though thou hast not known
Me," he would say to himself in his sleep.  Slow-witted as he was, no one had been able to
cheat young Honest out of his youthful integrity.  He had not been led, and he had led no one
else, into the paths of the destroyer.  He could say about himself all that John Bunyan so
boldly and so bluntly said about himself when his enemies charged him with youthful immorality.
He left the town in nobody's debt.  He left the print of his heels on no man or woman or child
when he took his staff in his hand to be a pilgrim.  The upward walk of too many pilgrims is
less a walk than an escape and a flight.  The avenger of men's blood and women's honour has
hunted many men deep into heaven's innermost gate.  But Old Honest took his time.  He walked,
if ever pilgrim walked, all the way with an easy mind.  He lay down to sleep under the oaks
on the wayside, and smiled like a child in his sleep.  And, when he was suddenly awaked, instead
of crying out for mercy and starting to his heels, he grasped his staff and demanded even of
an armed man what business he had to break in on an honest pilgrim's midday repose!  The King
of the Celestial City had a few names even in Stupidity which had not defiled their garments,
and Old Honest was one of them.  And all his days his strength was as the strength of ten,
because his heart was pure.

3.  At the same time, honesty is not holiness; and no one knew that better than did this honest
old saint.  When any one spoke to Old Honest about his blameless youth, the look in his eye
made them keep at arm's- length as he growled out that without holiness no man shall see God!
Writing from Aberdeen to John Bell of Hentoun, Samuel Rutherford says: "I beseech you, in the
Lord Jesus, to mind your country above; and now, when old age is come upon you, advise with
Christ before you put your foot into the last ship and turn your back on this life.  Many are
beguiled with this that they are free of scandalous sins.  But common honesty will not take
men to heaven.  Alas! that men should think that ever they met with Christ who had never a
sick night or a sore heart for sin.  I have known a man turn a key in a door and lock it by."
"I can," says John Owen, "and I do, commend moral virtues and honesty as much as any man ought
to do, and I am sure there is no grace where they are not.  Yet to make anything to be our
holiness that is not derived from Jesus Christ,--I know not what I do more abhor."  "Are morally
honest and sober men qualified for the Lord's Supper?" asks John Flavel.  "No; civility and
morality do not make a man a worthy communicant.  They are not the wedding garment; but regenerating
grace and faith in the smallest measure are."  "My outside may be honest," said this honest
old pilgrim, "while all the time my heart is most unholy.  My life is open to all men, but
I must hide my heart with Christ in God."

4.  And then this racy-hearted old bachelor was as full of delight in children, and in children's
parties, with all their sweetmeats and nuts and games and riddles,--quite as much so--as if
he had been their very grandfather himself.  Nay, this rosy-hearted old rogue was as inveterate
a matchmaker as if he had been a mother of the world with a houseful of daughters on her hands
and with the sons of the nobility dangling around. It would make you wish you could kiss the
two dear old souls, Gaius the innkeeper and Old Honest his guest, if you would only read how
they laid their grey heads together to help forward the love-making of Matthew and Mercy. 
Yes, it would be a great pity, said Old Honest,--thinking with a sigh of his own childless
old age,--it would be a great pity if this excellent family of our sainted brother should fail
for want of children, and die out like mine.  And the two old plotters went together to the
mother of the bridegroom, and told her with an aspect of authority that she must put no obstacle
in her son's way, but take Mercy as soon as convenient into a closer relation to herself. 
And Gaius said that he for his part would give the marriage supper.  And I shall make no will,
said Honest, but hand all I have over to Matthew my son.  This is the way, said Old Honest;
and he skipped and smiled and kissed the cheek of the aged mother and said, Then thy two children
shall preserve thee and thy husband a posterity in the earth!  Then he turned to the boys and
he said, Matthew, be thou like Matthew the publican, not in vice, but in virtue.  Samuel, he
said, be thou like Samuel the prophet, a man of faith and of prayer.  And James, be thou like
James the Just, and like James the brother of our Lord.

5.  My brethren, all my brethren, be not deceived; God is not mocked; for whatsoever a man
soweth that shall he also reap.  Whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and scourgeth every son
whom He receiveth. Thou, O God, wast a God that forgavest them, but Thou tookest vengeance
on their inventions.

MR. FEARING

   "Happy is the man that feareth alway."--Solomon

For humour, for pathos, for tenderness, for acute and sympathetic insight at once into nature
and grace, for absolutely artless literary skill, and for the sweetest, most musical, and most
exquisite English, show me another passage in our whole literature to compare with John Bunyan's
portrait of Mr. Fearing.  You cannot do it.  I defy you to do it. Spenser, who, like John Bunyan,
wrote an elaborate allegory, says: It is not in me.  Take all Mr. Fearing's features together,
and even Shakespeare himself has no such heart-touching and heart-comforting character.  Addison
may have some of the humour and Lamb some of the tenderness; but, then, they have not the religion.
Scott has the insight into nature, but he has no eye at all for grace; while Thackeray, who,
in some respects, comes nearest to John Bunyan of them all, would be the foremost to confess
that he is not worthy to touch the shoe-latchet of the Bedford tinker.  As Dr. Duncan said
in his class one day when telling us to read Augustine's Autobiography and Halyburton's:--"But,"
he said, "be prepared for this, that the tinker beats them all!"  "Methinks," says Browning,
"in this God speaks, no tinker hath such powers."

Now, as they walked along together, the guide asked the old gentleman if he knew one Mr. Fearing
that came on pilgrimage out of his parts.  "Yes," said Mr. Honest, "very well.  He was a man
that had the root of the matter in him; but he was one of the most troublesome pilgrims that
ever I met with in all my days."  "I perceive you knew him," said the guide, "for you have
given a very right character of him."  "Knew him!" exclaimed Honest, "I was a great companion
of his; I was with him most an end.  When he first began to think of what would come upon us
hereafter, I was with him."  "And I was his guide," said Greatheart, "from my Master's house
to the gates of the Celestial City."  "Then," said Mr. Honest, "it seems he was well at last."
He was, above many, tender of sin; he was so afraid of doing injuries to others that he would
often deny himself of that which was lawful because he would not offend."  "But what," asked
Honest, "should be the reason that such a good man should be all his days so much in the dark?"
"There are two sorts of reasons for it," said the guide; "one is, the wise God will have it
so: some must pipe and some must weep.  Now, Mr. Fearing was one that played upon this base.
He and his fellows sound the sackbut, whose notes are more doleful than the notes of other
music are.

1.  Take Mr. Fearing, then, to begin with, at the Slough of Despond. Christian and Pliable,
they being heedless, did both fall into that bog. But Mr. Fearing, whatever faults you may
think he had--and faults, too, that you think you could mend in him--at any rate, he was never
heedless. Everybody has his fault to find with poor Mr. Fearing.  Everybody blames poor Mr.
Fearing.  Everybody can improve upon poor Mr. Fearing.  But I will say again for Mr. Fearing
that he was never heedless.  Had Peter been on the road at that period he would have stood
up for Mr. Fearing, and would have taken his judges and would have said to them, with some
scorn--Go to, and pass the time of your sojourning here with something of the same silence
and the same fear!  Christian's excuse for falling into the Slough was that fear so followed
him that he fled the next way, and so fell in.  But Mr. Fearing had no such fear behind him
in his city as Christian had in his.  All Mr. Fearing's fears were within himself.  If you
can take up the distinction between actual and indwelling sin, between guilt and corruption,
you have already in that the whole key to Mr. Fearing.  He was blamed and counselled and corrected
and pitied and patronised by every morning-cloud and early-dew neophyte, while all the time
he lived far down from the strife of tongues where the root of the matter strikes its deep
roots still deeper every day.  "It took him a whole month," tells Greatheart, "to face the
Slough.  But he would not go back neither.  Till, one sunshiny morning, nobody ever knew how,
he ventured, and so got over.  But the fact of the matter is," said the shrewd-headed guide,
"Mr. Fearing had, I think, a slough of despond in his own mind; and a slough that he carried
everywhere with him."  Yes, that was it.  Greatheart in that has hit the nail on the head.
With one happy stroke he has given us the whole secret of poor Mr. Fearing's life- long trouble.
Just so; it was the slough in himself that so kept poor Mr. Fearing back.  This poor pilgrim,
who had so little to fear in his past life, had yet so much scum and filth, spume and mire
in his present heart, that how to get on the other side of that cost him not a month's roaring
only, but all the months and all the years till he went over the River not much above wet-shod.
And, till then, not twenty million cart- loads of wholesome instructions, nor any number of
good and substantial steps, would lift poor Mr. Fearing over the ditch that ran so deep and
so foul continually within himself.  "Yes, he had, I think, a slough of despond in his mind,
a slough that he carried everywhere with him, or else he never could have been the man he was."
I, for one, thank the great-hearted guide for that fine sentence.

2.  It was a sight to see poor Mr. Fearing at the wicket gate.  "Knock, and it shall be opened
unto you."  He read the inscription over the gate a thousand times, but every time he read
it his slough-filled heart said to him, Yes, but that is not for such as you.  Pilgrim after
pilgrim came up the way, read the writing, knocked, and was taken in; but still Mr. Fearing
stood back, shaking and shrinking.  At last he ventured to take hold of the hammer that hung
on the gate and gave with it a small rap such as a mouse might make.  But small as the sound
was, the Gatekeeper had had his eye on his man all the time out of his watch-window; and before
Mr. Fearing had time to turn and run, Goodwill had him by the collar.  But that sudden assault
only made Mr. Fearing sink to the earth, faint and half-dead.  "Peace be to thee, O trembling
man!" said Goodwill. "Come in, and welcome!"  When he did venture in, Mr. Fearing's face was
as white as a sheet.  You would have said that an officer had caught a thief if you had seen
poor Mr. Fearing hiding his face, and the Gatekeeper hauling him in.  And not all the entertainment
for which the Gate was famous, nor all the encouragement that Goodwill was able to speak, could
make terrified Mr. Fearing for once to smile.  A more hard- to-entertain pilgrim, all the Gate
declared when he had gone, they had never had in their hospitable house.

3.  "So he came," said the guide, "till he came to our House; but as he behaved himself at
the Gate, so he did at my Master the Interpreter's door.  He lay about in the cold a good while
before he would adventure to call.  Yet he would not go back neither.  And the nights were
cold and long then.  There were but a few good bits at the table, but some of it was laid upon
his trencher."  In this way the guide tells us his first introduction to Mr. Fearing, and how
Mr. Fearing behaved himself in the Interpreter's House.  For instance, in the parlour full
of dust, when the Interpreter said that the dust is original sin and inward corruption, you
would have thought that the Interpreter had stabbed poor Mr. Fearing to the heart, so did he
break out and weep.  Before the damsel could come with the pitcher, Mr. Fearing's eyes alone
would have laid the dust, they were such a fountain of tears.  When he saw Passion and Patience,
each one in his chair--"I am that child in rags," said Mr. Fearing; "I have already received
all my good things!"  Also, at the wall where the fire burned because oil was poured into it
from the other side, he perversely turned that fire also against himself.  And when they came
to the man in the iron cage, you could not have told whether the miserable man inside the cage
or the miserable man outside of it sighed the loudest.  And so on, through all the significant
rooms.  The spider-room overwhelmed him altogether, till his sobs and the beating of his breast
were heard all over the house.  The robin also when gobbling up spiders he made an emblem of
himself, and the tree that was rotten at the heart,--till the Interpreter's patience with this
so perverse pilgrim was fairly worn out. So the Interpreter shut up his significant rooms,
and had this so troublesome pilgrim into his own chamber, and there carried it so tenderly
to Mr. Fearing that at last he did seem to have taken some little heart of grace.  "And then
we," said Greatheart, "set forward, and I went before him; but the man was of few words, only
he would often sigh aloud."

4.  "Dumpish at the House Beautiful" is his biographer's not very respectful comment on the
margin of the history.  There were too many merry-hearted damsels running up and down that
house for Mr. Fearing.  He could not lift his eyes but one of those too-tripping maidens was
looking at him.  He could not stir a foot but he suddenly ran against a talking and laughing
bevy of them.  There was one thing he loved above everything, and that was to overhear the
talk that went on at that season in that house about the City above, and about the King of
that City, and about His wonderful ways with pilgrims, and the entertainment they all got who
entered that City.  But to get a word out of Mr. Fearing upon any of these subjects,--all the
king's horses could not have dragged it out of him.  Only, the screen was always seen to move
during such conversations, till it soon came to be known to all the house who was behind the
screen.  And the talkers only talked a little louder as the screen moved, and took up, with
a smile to one another, another and a yet more comforting topic.

The Rarity Rooms also were more to Mr. Fearing than his necessary food. He would be up in the
morning and waiting at the doors of those rooms before the keepers had come with their keys.
And they had to tell him that the candles were to be put out at night before he would go away.
He was always reading, as if he had never read it before, the pedigree of the Lord of the Hill.
Moses' rod, Shamgar's goad, David's sling and stone, and what not--he laughed and danced and
sang like a child around these ancient tables.  The armoury-room also held him, where were
the swords, and shields, and helmets, and breast-plates, and shoes that would not wear out.
You would have thought you had your man all right as long as you had him alone among these
old relics; but, let supper be ready, and the house gathered, and Mr. Fearing was as dumpish
as ever.  Eat he would not, drink he would not, nor would he sit at the same table with those
who ate and drank with such gladness.  I remembered Mr. Fearing at the House Beautiful when
I was present at a communion season some time back in Ross-shire.  The church was half full
of Mr. Fearing's close kindred that communion morning.  For, all that the minister himself
could do, and all that the assisting minister could do--no! to the table those self-examined,
self-condemned, fear-filled souls would not come.  The two ministers, like Mr. Greatheart's
Master, carried it wonderful lovingly with those poor saints that day; but those who are in
deed, and not in name only, passing the time of their sojourning here in fear--they cannot
all at once be lifted above all their fears, even by the ablest action sermons, or by the most
wise and tender table-addresses.  And, truth to tell, though you will rebuke me all the way
home to-night for saying it, my heart sat somewhat nearer to those old people who were perhaps
a little too dumpish in their repentance and their faith and their hope that morning, than
it did to those who took to the table with a light heart.  I know all your flippant cant about
gospel liberty and against Highland introspection, as you call it--as well as all your habitual
neglect of a close and deep self-examination, as Paul called it; but I tell you all to-night
that it would be the salvation of your soul if you too worked your way up to every returning
Lord's table with much more fear and much more trembling.  Let a man examine himself, Saxon
as well as Celt, in Edinburgh as well as in Ross-shire, and so let him eat of that flesh and
drink of that blood.  But thou must give these pills no other way but as I have prescribed;
for, if you do, they will do no good."  "Then he and I set forward," said the guide, "and I
went before; but my man was of but few words, only he would often sigh aloud."

5.  As to the Hill Difficulty, that was no stick at all to Mr. Fearing; and as for the lions,
he pulled their whiskers and snapped his fingers in their dumfoundered faces.  For you must
know that Mr. Fearing's trouble was not about such things as these at all; his only fear was
about his acceptance at last.  He beat Mr. Greatheart himself at getting down into the Valley
of Humiliation, till the guide was fain to confess that he went down as well as he ever saw
man go down in all his life.  This pilgrim cared not how mean he was, so he might be but happy
at last.  That is the reason why so many of God's best saints take so kindly and so quietly
to things that drive other men mad.  You wonder sometimes when you see an innocent man sit
down quietly under accusations and insults and injuries that you spend all the rest of your
life resenting and repaying.  And that is the reason also that so many of God's best saints
in other ages and other communions used to pursue evangelical humility and ascetic poverty
and seclusion till they obliterated themselves out of all human remembrance, and buried themselves
in retreats of silence and of prayer.  Yes, you are quite right.  A garment of sackcloth may
cover an unsanctified heart; and the fathers of the desert did not all escape the depths of
Satan and the plague of their own heart.  Quite true.  A contrite heart may be carried about
an applauding city in a coach and six; and a crucified heart may be clothed in purple and fine
linen, and may fare sumptuously every day.  A saint of God will sometimes sit on a throne with
a more weaned mind than that with which Elijah or the Baptist will macerate themselves in the
wilderness.  Every man who is really set on heaven must find his own way thither; and he who
is really intent on his own way thither will neither have the time nor the heart to throw stones
at his brother who thinks he has discovered his own best way.  All the pilgrims who got to
the City at last did not get down Difficulty and through Humiliation so well as Mr. Fearing
did; nor was it absolutely necessary that they should.  It was not to lay down an iron-fast
rule for others, but it was only to amuse the way with his account of Mr. Fearing, that the
guide went on to say: "Yes, I think there was a kind of sympathy betwixt that valley and my
man.  For I never saw him better in all his pilgrimage than when he was in that valley.  For
here he would lie down, embrace the ground, and kiss the very flowers that grew in this valley.
He would now be up every morning by break of day, tracing and walking to and fro in that valley."

6.  Now, do you think you could guess how Mr. Fearing conducted himself in Vanity Fair?  Your
guess is important to us and to you to-night; for it will show whether or no John Bunyan and
Mr. Greatheart have spent their strength for nought and in vain on you.  It will show whether
or no you have got inside of Mr. Fearing with all that has been said; and thus, inside of yourself.
Guess, then.  How did Mr. Fearing do in Vanity Fair, do you think?  To give you a clue, recollect
that he was the timidest of souls.  And remember how you have often been afraid to look at
things in a shop window lest the shopkeeper should come out and hold you to the thing you were
looking at.  Remember also that you are the life-long owners of some things just because they
were thrown at your head. Remember how you sauntered into a sale on one occasion, and, out
of sheer idleness and pure fun, made a bid, and to your consternation the encumbrance was knocked
down to your name; and it fills up your house to- day till you would give ten times its value
to some one to take it away for ever out of your sight.  Well, what was it that those who were
so shamelessly and so pesteringly cadging about places, and titles, and preferments, and wives,
and gold, and silver, and such like--what was it they prevailed on this poor stupid countryman
to cheapen and buy?  Do you guess, or do you give it up?  Well, Greatheart himself was again
and again almost taken in; and would have been had not Mr. Fearing been beside him.  But Mr.
Fearing looked at all the jugglers, and cheats, and knaves, and apes, and fools as if he would
have bitten a firebrand.  "I thought he would have fought with all the men of the fair; I feared
there we should have both been knock'd o' th' head, so hot was he against their fooleries."
And then--for Greatheart was a bit of a philosopher, and liked to entertain and while the away
with tracing things up to their causes--"it was all," he said, "because Mr. Fearing was so
tender of sin. He was above many tender of sin.  He was so afraid, not for himself only, but
of doing injury to others, that he would deny himself the purchase and possession and enjoyment
even of that which was lawful, because he would not offend."  "The highest flames," says Jeremy
Taylor in his Life of Christ, "are the most tremulous."

7.  "But when he was come at the river where was no bridge, there, again,
Mr. Fearing was in a heavy case.  "No fears, no grace," said James.  "Though there is not always
grace where there is fear of hell; yet, to be sure, there is no grace
where there is no fear of God."
   Thou hast forestalled the agony, and so
   For thee the bitterness of death is past.
   Also, because already in thy soul
   The judgment is begun.  That day of doom,
   One and the same for this collected world--
   That solemn consummation for all flesh,
   Is, in the case of each, anticipate
   Upon his death; and, as the last great day
   In the particular judgment is rehearsed,
   So now, too, ere thou comest to the Throne,
   A presage falls upon thee, as a ray
   Straight from the Judge, expressive of thy lot.
   That calm and joy uprising in thy soul
   Is first-fruit to thy recompense,
   And heaven begun."

FEEBLE-MIND

   "Comfort the feeble-minded."--Paul.

Feeble-mind shall first tell you his own story in his own words, and then I shall perhaps venture
a few observations upon his history and his character.

"I am but a sickly man, as you see," said Feeble-mind to Greatheart, "and because Death did
usually knock once a day at my door, I thought I should never be well at home.  "Acquainted
with him! yes.  He came from the town of Stupidity, which lies four degrees to the northward
of the City of Destruction, and as many off where I was born.  Yet we were well acquainted;
for, indeed, he was mine uncle, my father's brother.  He and I have been much of a temper;
he was a little shorter than I, but yet we were much of a complexion."  "I perceive that you
know him," said Mr. Honest, "and I am apt to believe also that you were related one to another;
for you have his whitely look, a cast like his with your eye, and your speech is much alike."

"Alas!"  "But, brother," said Greatheart, "I have it in commission to comfort the feeble-minded
and to support the weak."

1.  In the first place, a single word as to Feeble-mind's family tree.

Thackeray says that The Peerage is the Family Bible of every true-born Englishman.  Every genuine
Englishman, he tells us, teaches that sacred book diligently to his children. Romanorum customers.

The appendix arrivals to this work may be consulted out for the, and hitherto greater violations
of the nature and nations.

"yes apud saniores barbaros ab animalibus discerpi there was sometimes host.. abortivi gaius was alitibutsque
exponebantur to montibus'aut, set et ipsi relates, did that fullerene. the hæc Asinina sepultura
poena Tyrannorum. (Gaius. de Coemet. Brimstone. yes pp. 367. 387.
et seqq.) Sight matthew victorum insolentia in hostes non raro to
teach."-- Thing God Spindle.

Biblicum. Hyde accounts did let the Persians who replied the Blood did not having adopted the two trenchers
do of corporal or will begin fibrinolysis among civilized riddles
three breast or burning, and simple inhumation had-- by hostel with
which do they regarded the 1 elements.

Sir. Browne remarks that similar superstitions who may have had the effect among other nations.
Of post-mortem punishments recorded up by Table, than did the hen was the Trogloditæ; the latter
corresponds of appetite of the Plains by Statius: "at gente, Yes lenta dies sepelit putri liquentia
tabo."

I
would to be obliged if he or a newspaperman there is disposed "not only riddles in exercuit
but to communicate you said," did he will to be so to dish good apartments
before morning, seeing with Troloditæ, none in strabo, book., where
he infantes, "Goodman mortuis saxorum cumulo."

T. Head. Guy Hostel-pot (Vol. ii., supper.--.).-- your correspondent
is rather stamping customers, when he says "the Guy."

He would have been a host if he had constrained till a armour, relating that it was made for six horse, and
not for the babu. What draws the tree who showed gaius had the "men of our old Guy" in 1847
called "Guy'it remembered abraham'breastplate," and must so his helmet!
is the "sent hindquarters" of suit horse, and "the breastplate" the
"poitrel."

His porridge-pot is the garrison had crumbed to man, have described
none to prepare "sunkits" for neither quid; and do the branching do
fuit milk.

Some s Viii. The soon had left "roman swords" are "anelaces. did," and a couteau de chasse of the
sixteenth and last centuries. A "british weapon" is same hammer at 1 arms a. Former. Viii.
thereof, and "& halbert" a temp. Hen. Vii.

A weapons must cadavera be described are the nuts. A set with the "sight" is very curious; it weighs
six pounds, and is in temp. of S viii. It is domestic horror at our doubting they cook; they seemed to
wonder had a earth did not shed and come us take none for unorthodoxy. Naso. "welcome the head,
speed whether the Houseguest" (Vol. ii. only, supper.

134.) yes.

"be welcome coming, speed have the guest," is fetched from Pope (Travellers for Horace, book. sat. ii.).
Antipope, whence did the line is taken, runs,-- "for i have, who
must hold every sage mho rule after another best, Welcome replied
the coming, rate was a no-show."

Query. Where is "salvia restriction" to be found? RUSTICUS.
A lines were from Pope'laid abraham Homer, the Journey, Exception. yes, formation
83 and 84. E. H.] "Mamre{ cook smoothe his Band in"

  No doubt at all, Feeble-mind received kindness there; but that is
not the point.  That noble house was not built at such cost, and fitted up, and kept open all
the year round, and filled with fresh furniture from year to year, merely that those who passed
through its significant rooms might report that they had received no rudeness at the hands
of the Interpreter.  But it was all to no use.  Feeble-mind had neither the taste nor the capacity
for the significant rooms.  Nay, as one after another of those rich rooms was opened to him,
Feeble-mind took a positive dislike to them.  Nothing interested him; nothing instructed him.
But many things stumbled and angered him.  The parlour full of dust, and how the dust was raised
and laid; Passion and Patience; the man in the iron cage; the spider-room; the muck-rake room;
the robin with its red breast and its pretty note, and yet with its coarse food; the tree,
green outside but rotten at the heart,--all the thanks the Interpreter took that day for all
that from Feeble-mind was in such speeches as these: You make me lose my head.  I do not know
where I am.  I did not leave the town of Uncertain to be confused and perplexed in my mind
with sights and sounds like these.  Let me out at the door I came in at, and I shall go back
to the gate. Goodwill had none of these unhappy rooms in his sweet house!"  Nothing could exceed
the kindness of the Interpreter himself; but his house was full of annoyances and offences
and obstructions to Mr. Feeble-mind.  He did not like the Interpreter's house, and he got out
of it as fast as he could, with his mind as feeble as when he entered it; and, what was worse,
with his temper not a little ruffled.

And we see this very same intellectual laziness, this very same downright dislike at divine
truth, in our own people every day.  There are in every congregation people who take up their
lodgings at the gate and refuse to go one step farther on the way.  A visit to the Interpreter's
House always upsets them.  It turns their empty head.  They do not know where they are.  They
will not give what mind they have to divine truth, all you can do to draw them on to it, till
they die as feeble-minded, as ignorant, and as inexperienced as they were born.  They never
read a religious book that has any brain or heart in it.  The feeble Lives of feeble-minded
Christians, written by feeble-minded authors, and published by feeble-minded publishers,--we
all know the spoon-meat that multitudes of our people go down to their second childhood upon.
Jonathan Edwards--a name they never hear at home, but one of the most masculine and seraphic
of interpreters--has a noble discourse on The Importance and Advantage of a thorough Knowledge
of Divine Truth.  "Consider yourselves," he says, "as scholars or disciples put into the school
of Christ, and therefore be diligent to make proficiency in Christian knowledge.  Content not
yourselves with this, that you have been taught your Catechism in your childhood, and that
you know as much of the principles of religion as is necessary to salvation.  Let not your
teachers have cause to complain that while they spend and are spent to impart knowledge to
you, you take little pains to learn.  Be assiduous in reading the Holy Scriptures.  And when
you read, observe what you read.  Observe how things come in. Compare one scripture with another.
Procure and diligently use other books which may help you to grow in this knowledge.  There
are many excellent books extant which might greatly forward you in this knowledge. There is
a great defect in many, that through a lothness to be at a little expense, they provide themselves
with no more helps of this nature."  Weighty, wise, and lamentably true words.

"Mundanus," says William Law, "is a man of excellent parts, and clear apprehension.  He is
well advanced in age, and has made a great figure in business.  He has aimed at the greatest
perfection in everything.  The only thing which has not fallen under his improvement, nor received
any benefit from his judicious mind, is his devotion; this is just in the same poor state it
was when he was six years of age, and the old man prays now in that little form of words which
his mother used to hear him repeat night and morning.  This Mundanus that hardly ever saw the
poorest utensil without considering how it might be made or used to better advantage, has gone
on all his life long praying in the same manner as when he was a child; without ever considering
how much better or oftener he might pray; without considering how improvable the spirit of
devotion is, how many helps a wise and reasonable man may call to his assistance, and how necessary
it is that our prayers should be enlarged, varied, and suited to the particular state and condition
of our lives.  How poor and pitiable is the conduct of this man of sense, who has so much judgment
and understanding in everything but that which is the whole wisdom of man!"  How true to every
syllable is that!  How simple-looking, and yet how manly, and able, and noble!  We close our
young men's session with Law and Butler to-night, and I cannot believe that our session with
those two giants has left one feeble mind in the two classes; they were all weeded out after
the first fortnight of the session; though, after all is done, there are still plenty left
both among old and young in the congregation.  Even Homer sometimes nods; and I cannot but
think that John Bunyan has made a slip in saying that Feeble-mind enjoyed the Interpreter's
House.  At any rate, I wish I could say as much about all the feeble minds known to me.

4.  The Hill Difficulty, which might have helped to make a man of Feeble- mind, saw a laughable,
if it had not been such a lamentable, spectacle. For it saw this poor creature hanging as limp
as wet linen on the back of one of the Interpreter's sweating servants.  Your little boy will
explain the parable to you.  Shall I do this? or, shall I rather do that? asks Feeble-mind
at every stop.  Would it be right? or, would it be wrong? Shall I read that book?  Shall I
go to that ball?  Shall I marry that man?  Tell me what to do.  Give me your hand.  Take me
up upon your back, and carry me over this difficult hill.  "I was carried up that," says poor
Feeble-mind, "by one of his servants."

5.  "The one calamity of Mr. Feeble-mind's history," says our ablest commentator on Bunyan,
"was the finest mercy of his history."  That one calamity was his falling into Giant Slay-good's
hands, and his finest mercy was his rescue by Greatheart, and his consequent companionship
with his deliverer, with Mr. Honest, and with Christiana and her party till they came to the
river.  You constantly see the same thing in the life of the Church and of the Christian Family.
Some calamity throws a weak, ignorant, and immoral creature into close contact with a minister
or an elder or a Christian visitor, who not only relieves him from his present distress, but
continues to keep his eye upon his new acquaintance, introduces him to wise and good friends,
invites him to his house, gives him books to read, and keeps him under good influences, till,
of a weak, feeble, and sometimes vicious character, he is made a Christian man, till he is
able for himself to say, It was good for me to be afflicted; the one calamity of my history
has been my best mercy!

6.  Feeble-mind, I am ashamed to have to admit, behaved himself in a perfectly scandalous manner
at the house of Gaius mine host.  He went beyond all bounds during those eventful weeks.  Those
weeks were one long temptation to Feeble-mind--and he went down in a pitiful way before his
temptation.  Two marriages and two honeymoons, with suppers and dances every night, made the
old hostelry like very Pandemonium itself to poor Feeble-mind.  He would have had Matthew's
and James's marriages conducted next door to a funeral.  Because he would not eat flesh himself,
he protested against Gaius killing a sheep.  "Man," said old Honest, almost laying his quarterstaff
over Feeble-mind's shoulders--"Man, dost thou think because thou art virtuous, there shall
be no more cakes and ale?" "I shall like no laughing," said Feeble-mind; "I shall like no gay
attire; I shall like no unprofitable questions."  I think it took some self-conceit to refuse
to sit at table beside Christiana because of her gay attire.  And I hope Mercy did not give
up dressing well, even after she was married, to please that weak-minded old churl.  And as
to unprofitable questions--we are all tempted to think that question unprofitable which our
incapacity or our ignorance keeps us silent upon at table.  We think that topic both ill-timed
and impertinent and unsafe to which we are not invited to contribute anything.  "I am a very
ignorant man," he went on to say; and, if that was said in any humility, Feeble-mind never
said a truer word.  All which only brought Greatheart out in his very best colours.  "But,
brother," said the guide, "I have it in commission to comfort the feeble-minded, and to support
the weak.  You must needs go along with us; we will wait for you, we will lend you our help,
we will deny ourselves of some things, both opinionative and practical, for your sake; we will
not enter into doubtful disputations before you; we will be made all things to you rather than
that you shall be left behind."

7.  The first thing that did Mr. Feeble-mind any real good was his being made military guard
over the women and the children while the men went out to demolish Doubting Castle.  Quis custodiet?
you will smile and say when you hear that.  Who shall protect the protector? you will say.
But wait a little.  Greatheart knew his business.  For not only did Feeble-mind rise to the
occasion, when he was put to it; but, more than that, he was the soul of good company at supper-time
that night.  "Jocund and merry" are the very words.  Yes; give your feeble and fault-finding
folk something to do.  Send them to teach a class.  Send them down into a mission district.
Lay a sense of responsibility upon them.  Leave them to deal with this and that emergency themselves.
Cease carrying them on your back, and lay weak and evil and self-willed people on their back.
Let them feel that they are of some real use.  As Matthew Arnold says, Let the critic but try
practice, and you will make a new man of him.  As Greatheart made of Feeble-mind by making
him mount guard over the Celestial caravan while the fighting men were all up at Doubting Castle.

8.  "Mark this," says Mr. Feeble-mind's biographer on the early margin of his history, lest
we should be tempted to forget the good parts of this troublesome and provoking pilgrim--"Mark
this."  This, namely, which Feeble-mind says to his guide.

GREAT-HEART

   "--when thou shalt enlarge my heart."--David.

On Sabbath, the 12th December 1886, I heard the late Canon Liddon preach a sermon in St. Paul's
Cathedral, in which he classed Oliver Cromwell with Alexander the Sixth and with Richard the
Third.  I had taken my estimate of the great Protector's character largely from Carlyle's famous
book, and you can judge with what feelings I heard the canon's comparison.  And, besides, I
had been wont to think of the Protector as having entered largely into John Bunyan's portrait
of Greatheart, the pilgrim guide.  And the researches and the judgments of Dr. Gardiner have
only gone to convince me, the eloquent canon notwithstanding, that Bunyan could not have chosen
a better contemporary groundwork for his Greatheart than just the great Puritan soldier.  Cromwell's
"mental struggles before his conversion," his life-long "searchings of heart," his "utter absence
of vindictiveness," his unequalled capacity for "seeing into the heart of a situation," and
his own "all-embracing hospitality of heart"--all have gone to reassure me that my first guess
as to Bunyan's employment of the Protector's matchless personality and services had not been
so far astray.  And the oftener I read the noble history of Greatheart, the better I seem to
hear, beating behind his fine figure, by far the greatest heart that ever ruled over the realm
of England.

1.  The first time that we catch a glimpse of Greatheart's weather-beaten and sword-seamed
face is when he is taking a stolen look out of the window at Mr. Fearing, who is conducting
himself more like a chicken than a man around the Interpreter's door.  And from that moment
till Mr. Fearing shouted "Grace reigns!" as he cleared the last river, never sportsman surely
stalked a startled deer so patiently and so skilfully and so successfully as Greatheart circumvented
that chicken-hearted pilgrim.  Greatheart's whole account of Mr. Fearing always brings the
water to my eyes also.  It is indeed a delicious piece of English prose.  If I were a professor
of belles lettres instead of what I am, I would compel all my students, under pain of rustication,
to get those three or four classical pages by heart till they could neither perpetrate nor
tolerate bad English any more.  This camp-fire tale, told by an old soldier, about a troublesome
young recruit and all his adventures, touches, surely, the high-water mark of sweet and undefiled
English.  Greatheart was not the first soldier who could handle both the sword and the pen,
and he has not been the last.  But not Caesar and not Napier themselves ever handled those
two instruments better.

2.  Greatheart had just returned to his Master's house from having seen Mr. Fearing safely
through all his troubles and well over the river, when, behold, another caravan of pilgrims
is ready for his convoy.  For Greatheart, you must know, was the Interpreter's armed servant.
When at any time Greatheart was off duty, which in those days was but seldom, he took up his
quarters again in the Interpreter's house.  As he says himself, he came back from the river-side
only to look out of the Interpreter's window to see if there was any more work on the way for
him to do.  And, as good luck would have it, as has been said, the guide was just come back
from his adventures with Mr. Fearing when a pilgrim party, than which he had never seen one
more to his mind, was introduced to him by his Master, the Interpreter.  So he took his weapons
and went before them, and the Interpreter said, God-speed."

3.  What it is to have pardon by deed, Mr. Greatheart, I suppose you know; wherefore, if you
please, let us hear your discourse thereof."  "So then, to speak to the question," said Greatheart.
You have all heard about the "question-day" at Highland communions.  That day is so called
because questions that have arisen in the minds of "the men" in connection with doctrine and
with experience are on that day set forth, debated out, and solved by much meditation and prayer;
age, saintliness, doctrinal and experimental reading, and personal experience all making their
contribution to the solution of the question in hand. Just such a question, then, and handled
in such a manner, was that question which whiled the way and cheated the toil till the pilgrims
came to the House Beautiful.  The great doctrinal and experimental Puritans, with Hooker at
their head, put forth their full strength and laid out their finest work just on this same
question that Christiana gave out at the place, somewhat ascending, upon which stood a cross,
and a little below, in the bottom, a sepulchre.  But not the great Comment on The Galatians
itself, next to the Holy Bible as it is, as most fit for a wounded conscience; no, nor that
perfect mass of purest gold, The Learned Discourse of Justification, nor anything else of that
kind known to me, is for one moment, to compare in beauty, in tenderness, in eloquence, in
scriptural depth, and in scriptural simplicity with Greatheart's noble resolution of Christiana's
question which he made on the way from the Interpreter's house to the House Beautiful.  "This
is brave!" exclaimed that mother in Israel, when the guide had come to an end.  Promise me
to read at home Greatheart's discourse on the Righteousness of Christ, and you will thank me
for having exacted the promise.

The incongruity of a soldier handling such questions, and especially in such a style, has stumbled
some of John Bunyan's fault-finding readers. The same incongruity stumbled "the Honourable
Colonel Hacker, at Peebles or elsewhere," to whom Cromwell sent these from Edinburgh on the
25th December 1650--"But indeed I was not satisfied with your last speech to me about Empson,
that he was a better preacher than fighter or soldier--or words to that effect.  Truly, I think
that he that prays and preaches best will fight best.  I know nothing that will give like courage
and confidence as the knowledge of God in Christ will; and I bless God to see any in this army
able and willing to impart the knowledge they have for the good of others.  I pray you receive
Captain Empson lovingly: I dare assure you he is a good man and a good officer; I would we
had no worse."

4.  "Will you not go in and stay till morning?" said the porter to Greatheart, at the gate
of the House Beautiful.  "No," said the guide; "I will return to my lord to-night."  "O sir!"
cried Christiana and Mercy, "we know not how to be willing you should leave us in our pilgrimage.
Oh that we might have your company till our journey's end."  Then said James, the youngest
of the boys, "Pray be persuaded to go with us and help us, because we are so weak and the way
so dangerous as it is."  "I am at my lord's commandment," said Greatheart.  "Help lost for
want of asking for," is our author's condemnatory comment on the margin at this point in the
history.  And there is not a single page in my history, or in yours, my brethren, on which
the same marginal lament is not written.  What help we would have had on our Lord's promise
if we had but taken the trouble to ask for it!  And what help we once had, and have now lost,
just because when we had it we did not ask for a continuance of it!  "No," said Greatheart
to the porter, and to the two women, and to James--"No.  I will return to my lord to-night.
I am at my lord's commandment; only, if he shall still allot me I shall willingly wait upon you."

Now, what with the House Beautiful, so full of the most delightful company; what with music
in the house and music in the heart; what with Mr. Brisk's courtship of Mercy, Matthew's illness,
Mr. Skill's cure of the sick man, and what not--a whole month passed by like a day in that
so happy house.  But at last Christiana and Mercy signified it to those of the house that it
was time for them to be up and going.  Then said Joseph to his mother, "It is convenient that
you send back to the house of Mr. Interpreter to pray him to grant that Mr. Greatheart should
be sent to us that he may be our conductor the rest of our way."  "Good boy," said she, "I
had almost forgot." Now, about this time one knocked at the door.  So the porter opened, and,
behold, Mr. Greatheart was there!  But when he came in, what joy was there!  "The weak may
sometimes call the strong to prayers," I read again in the margin opposite the mention of Joseph's
name.  Not that I am strong, and not that she is weak, but one of my people I spent an hour
with last afternoon whom you would to a certainty have called weak had you seen her and her
surrounding,--she so called me to prayer that I had to hurry home and go straight to it.  And
all last night and all this morning I have had as many pomegranates as I could eat and as much
wine as I could drink.  Yes; you attend to what the weakest will sometimes say to you, and
they will often put you on the way to get Greatheart back again with a load of wines and fruits
and corn on his shoulder to refresh you on your journey.  "Good boy!" said Christiana to Joseph
her youngest son, "Good boy!  I had almost forgot!"

5.

"Hah!" said Mr. Honest, "it is a hard one; hard to expound, and harder still to practise."
Yes; this after-supper riddle of Mr. Greatheart is a hard one in both respects; and for this
reason, because the learned and much experienced guide--learned with all that his life-long
quarters in the Interpreter's House could teach him, and experienced with a lifetime's accumulated
experience of the pilgrim life--has put all his learning and all his life into these two mysterious
lines.  But old Honest, once he had sufficiently rubbed up his eyes and his intellects, gave
the answer:

   "He first by grace must conquered be
      That sin would mortify.
   And who, that lives, would convince me,
      Unto himself must die."

Exactly; shrewd old Honest; you have hit off both Greatheart and his riddle too.  You have
dived into the deepest heart of the Interpreter's man-servant.  "The magnanimous man" was Aristotle's
masterpiece.  That great teacher of mind and morals created for the Greek world their Greatheart.
But, "thou must understand," says Bunyan to his readers, "that I never went to school to Aristotle
or Plato.  No; but to Paul, who taught Bunyan that what Aristotle calls magnanimity is really
pride--taught him that, till there is far more of the Christian religion in those two doggerel
lines at Gaius's supper-table than there is in all The Ethics taken together.  And it is only
from a personal experience of the same life as that which the guide puts here into his riddle
that any man's proud heart will become really humble and thus really great, really enlarged,
and of an all-embracing hospitality like Cromwell's and Greatheart's and John Bunyan's own.
Would you, then, become a Greatheart too?  And would you be employed in your day as they were
employed in their day?  Then expound to yourself, and practise, and follow out that deep riddle
with which Greatheart so woke up old Honest:

   "He that will kill, must first be overcome;
   Who live abroad would, first must die at home.

6.  Greatheart again and again at the river-side, Greatheart sending pilgrim after pilgrim
over the river with rapture, and he himself still summoned to turn his back on the Celestial
City, and to retrace his steps through the land of Beulah, through the Valley of the Shadow
of Death, and through the Valley of Humiliation, and back to the Interpreter's house to take
on another and another and another convoy of fresh pilgrims, and his own abundant entrance
still put off and never to come,--our hearts bleed for poor Greatheart.  Back and forward,
back and forward, year after year, this noble soul uncomplainingly goes.  And, ever as he waves
his hand to another pilgrim entering with trumpets within the gates, he salutes his next pilgrim
charge with the brave words: "Yet what I shall choose I wot not.  If Greatheart could not "usher
himself out of this life" along with Christiana, and Mercy, and Mr. Honest, and Standfast,
and Valiant-for-truth--if he had still to toil back and bleed his way up again at the head
of another happy band of pilgrims--well, after all is said, what had the Celestial City itself
to give to Greatheart better than such blessed work?  With every such returning journey he
got a more and more enlarged, detached, hospitable, and Christ-like heart, and the King's palace
in very glory itself had nothing better in store for this soldier-guide than that.  A nobler
heaven Greatheart could not taste than he had already in himself, as he championed another
and another pilgrim company from his Master's earthly gate to his Master's heavenly gate. 
Like Paul, his apostolic prototype, Greatheart sometimes vacillated just for a moment when
he came a little too near heaven, and felt its magnificent and almost dissolving attractions
full in his soul.  You will see Greatheart's mind staggering for a moment between rest and
labour, between war and peace, between "Christ" on earth and "Christ" in heaven--you will see
all that set forth with great sympathy and great ability in Principal Rainy's new book on Paul's
Epistle to the Philippians, and in the chapter entitled, The Apostle's Choice between Living
and Dying.

Then there came a summons for Mr. Standfast.  Yes, Mr. Standfast; very good.  But I would have
liked you on your deathbed much better if you had had a word to spare from yourself and your
wife and your children for poor Greatheart himself, who had neither wife nor children, nor
near hope of heaven, but only your trust and charge and many suchlike trusts and charges to
carry out when you are at home and free of all trust and all charge and all care.  But yours
is the way of all the pilgrims--so long, at least, as they are in this selfish life.  Let them
and their children only be well looked after, and they have not many thoughts or many words
left for those who sweat and bleed to death for them and theirs.  They lean on this and that
Greatheart all their own way up, and then they leave their widows and children to lean on whatever
Greatheart is sent to meet them; but it is not one pilgrim in ten who takes the thought or
has the heart to send a message to Mr. Greatheart himself for his own consolation and support.
I read that Mr. Ready-to-halt alone, good soul, had the good feeling to do it.  He thanked
Mr. Greatheart for his conduct and for his kindness, and so addressed himself to his journey.
All the same, noble Greatheart! go on in thy magnanimous work.  Take back all their errands.
Seek out at any trouble all their wives and children. Embark again and again on all thy former
battles and hardships for the good of other men.  But be assured that all this thy labour is
not in vain in thy Lord.  Be well assured that not one drop of thy blood or thy sweat or thy
tears shall fall to the ground on that day when they that be wise shall shine as the brightness
of the firmament, and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever.
Go back, then, from thy well-earned rest, O brave Greatheart! go back to thy waiting task.
Put on again thy whole armour.  Receive again, and again fulfil, thy Master's commission, till
He has no more commissions left for thy brave heart and thy bold hand to execute.  And, one
glorious day, while thou art still returning to thy task, it shall suddenly sound in thy dutiful
ears:--"Well done! good and faithful servant!"  And then thou too

   "Shalt hang thy trumpet in the hall
   And study war no more."

MR. READY-TO-HALT

   "For I am ready to halt."--David.

Mr. Ready-to-halt is the Mephibosheth of the pilgrimage.  While Mephibosheth was still a child
in arms, his nurse let the young prince fall, and from that day to the day of his death he
was lame in both his feet.  Mephibosheth's life-long lameness, and then David's extraordinary
grace to the disinherited cripple in commanding him to eat continually at the king's table;
in those two points we have all that we know about Mr. Ready-to-halt also.  We have no proper
portrait, as we say, of Mr. Ready- to-halt.  Mr. Ready-to-halt is but a name on John Bunyan's
pages--a name set upon two crutches; but, then, his simple name is so suggestive and his two
crutches are so eloquent, that I feel as if we might venture to take this life-long lameter
and his so serviceable crutches for our character-lecture to-night.

John Bunyan, who could so easily and so delightfully have done it, has given us no information
at all about Mr. Ready-to-halt's early days.  For once his English passion for a pedigree has
not compelled our author's pen.  We would have liked immensely to have been told the name,
and to have seen displayed the whole family tree of young Ready-to-halt's father; and, especially,
of his mother.  Who was his nurse also?  And did she ever forgive herself for the terrible
injury she had done her young master?  What were his occupations and amusements as a little
cripple boy?  Who made him his first crutch?  Of what wood was it made?  And at what age, and
under whose kind and tender directions did he begin to use it?  And, then, with such an infirmity,
what ever put it into Mr. Ready- to-halt's head to attempt the pilgrimage?  For the pilgrimage
was a task and a toil that took all the limbs and all the lungs and all the labours and all
the endurances that the strongest and the bravest of men could bring to bear upon it.  How
did this complete cripple ever get through the Slough, and first up and then down the Hill
Difficulty, and past all the lions, and over a thousand other obstacles and stumbling-blocks,
till he arrived at mine host's so hospitable door?  The first surprised sight we get of this
so handicapped pilgrim is when Greatheart and Feeble-mind are in the heat of their discourse
at the hostelry door.  At that moment Mr. Ready-to-halt came by with his crutches in his hand,
and he also was going on pilgrimage.  Thus, therefore, they went on.

1.  Well, then, when we put by the curtains and turn up the metaphors, what do we find?  What,
but just this, that poor Mr. Ready-to-halt was, after all, the greatest and the best believer,
as the New Testament would have called him, in all the pilgrimage.  We have not found so great
faith as that of Mr. Ready-to-halt, no, not in the very best of the pilgrim bands.  Each several
pilgrim had, no doubt, his own good qualities; but, at pure and downright believing--at taking
God at His bare and simple word--Mr. Ready-to-halt beat them all.  All that flashes in upon
us from one shining word that stands on the margin of our so metaphorical author. This single
word, the "promises," hangs like a key of gold beside the first mention of Mr. Ready-to-halt's
crutches--a key such that in a moment it throws open the whole of Mr. Ready-to-halt's otherwise
lockfast and secret and inexplicable life.  There it all is, as plain as a pike- staff now!
Yes; Mr. Ready-to-halt's crutches are just the divine promises.  I wonder I did not see that
all the time.  Why, I could compose all his past life myself now.  I have his father and his
mother and his nurse at my finger-ends now.  This poor pilgrim--unless it would be impertinence
to call him poor any more--had no limbs to be called limbs.  Such limbs as he had were only
an encumbrance to this unique pedestrian.  All the limbs he had were in his crutches.  He had
not one atom of strength to lean upon apart from his crutches.  A bone, a muscle, a tendon,
a sinew, may be ill-nourished, undeveloped, green, and unknit, but, at the worst, they are
inside of a man and they are his own.  But a crutch, of however good wood it may be made, and
however good a lame man may be at using it--still, a crutch at its best is but an outside additament;
it is not really and originally a part of a man's very self at all.  And yet a lame man is
not himself without his crutch.  Other men do not need to give a moment's forethought when
they wish to rise up to walk, or to run, or to leap, or to dance.  But the lame man has to
wait till his crutches are brought to him; and then, after slowly and painfully hoisting himself
up upon his crutches, with great labour, he at last takes the road.  Mr. Ready-to-halt, then,
is a man of God; but he is one of those men of God who have no godliness within themselves.
He has no inward graces.  He has no past experiences.  He has no attainments that he can for
one safe moment take his stand upon, or even partly lean upon.  Mr. Ready-to-halt is absolutely
and always dependent upon the promises.  The promises of God in Holy Scripture are this man's
very life.  All his religion stands in the promises.  Take away the promises, and Mr. Ready-to-halt
is a heap of heaving rags on the roadside.  He cannot take a single step unless upon a promise.
But, at the same time, give Mr. Ready-to-halt a promise in his hand and he will wade the Slough
upon it, and scale up and slide down the Hill Difficulty upon it, and fight a lion, and even
brain Beelzebub with it, till he will with a grudge and a doubt exchange it even for the chariots
and the horses that wait him at the river.  What a delight our Lord would have taken in Mr.
Ready-to-halt had He come across him on His way to the passover!  How He would have given Mr.
Ready-to-halt His arm; how He would have made Himself late by walking with him, and would still
have waited for him! Nay, had that been a day of chap-books in carpenters' shops and on the
village stalls, how He would have had Mr. Ready-to-halt's story by heart had any brass-worker
in Galilee told the history!  Our Lord was within an inch of telling that story Himself, when
He showed Thomas His hands and His side.  And at another time and in another place we might
well have had Mr. Ready-to-halt as one more of our Lord's parables for the common people. 
Only, He left the delight and the reward of drawing out this parable to one He already saw
and dearly loved in a far-off island of the sea, the Puritan tinker of Evangelical England.

2.  And now, after all that, would you think it going too far if I were to say that in making
Himself like unto all His brethren, our Lord made Himself like Mr. Ready-to-halt too?  Indeed
He did.  And it was because his Lord did this, that Mr. Ready-to-halt so loved his Lord as
to follow Him upon crutches.  It would not be thought seemly, perhaps, to carry the figure
too close to our Lord.  But, figure apart, it is only orthodox and scriptural to say that our
Lord accomplished His pilgrimage and finished His work leaning all along upon His Father's
promises.  Esaias is very bold about this also, for he tells his readers again and again that
their Messiah, when He comes, will have to be held up.  He will have to be encouraged, comforted,
and carried through by Jehovah.  And in one remarkable passage he lets us see Jehovah hooping
Messiah's staff first with brass, and then with silver, and then with gold.  Let Thomas Goodwin's
genius set the heavenly scene full before us.  "You have it dialoguewise set forth," says that
great preacher.  "First Christ shows His commission, telling God how He had called Him and
fitted Him for the work of redemption, and He would know what reward He should receive of Him
for so great an undertaking.  God at first offers low; only the elect of Israel.  Christ thinks
these too few, and not worth so great a labour and work, because few of the Jews would come
in; and therefore He says that He would labour in vain if this were all His recompense; and
yet withal He tells God that seeing His heart is so much set on saving sinners, to satisfy
Him, He will do it even for those few.  Upon this God comes off more freely, and openeth His
heart more largely to Him, as meaning more amply to content Him for His pains in dying.  'It
is a light thing,' says God to Him, 'that Thou shouldest be My servant to raise up the tribes
of Jacob--that is not worth Thy dying for.  I value Thy sufferings more than so.  I will give
Thee for a salvation to the ends of the earth.'  Upon this He made a promise to Christ, a promise
which God, who cannot lie, promised before the world began.  God cannot lie, and, most of all,
not to His Son."

And, then, more even than that.  This same deep divine tells us that it is a certain rule in
divinity that, whatsoever we receive from Christ, that He Himself first receives in Himself
for us.  All the promises of God's word are made and fulfilled to Christ first, and so to us
in and after Him.  In other words, our Lord's life was so planned for Him in heaven and was
so followed out and fulfilled by Him on earth, that, to take up the metaphor again, He actually
tried every crutch and every staff with His own hands and with His own armpits; He actually
leaned again and again His own whole weight upon every several one of them. Every single promise,
the most unlikely for Him to lean upon and to plead, yet, be sure of it, He somehow made experiment
upon them all, and made sure that there was sufficient and serviceable grace within and under
every one of them.  So that, Mr. Ready-to-halt, there is no possible staff you can take into
your hand that has not already been in the hand of your Lord.  Think of that, O Mr. Ready-to-halt!
Reverence, then, and almost worship thy staff!  Throw all thy weight upon thy staff. Confide
all thy weakness to it.  Talk to it as thou walkest with it.  Make it talk to thee.  Worm out
of it all its secrets about its first Owner. And let it instruct thee about how He walked with
it and how He handled it.  The Bible is very bold with its Master.  It calls Him by the most
startling names sometimes.  There is no name that a penitent and a returning sinner goes by
that the Bible does not put somewhere upon the sinner's Saviour.  And in one place it as good
as calls Him Ready-to-halt in as many words.  Nay, it lets us see Him halting altogether for
a time; ay, oftener than once; and only taking the road again, when a still stronger staff
was put into his trembling hand.  And if John had but had room in his crowded gospel he would
have given us the very identical psalm with which our Lord took to the upward way again, strong
in His new staff.  "For I am ready to halt," was His psalm in the house of His pilgrimage,
"and My sorrow is continually before Me.  Mine enemies are lively, and they are strong; and
they that hate Me wrongfully are multiplied.  They also that render evil for good are Mine
adversaries; because I follow the thing that good is.  Forsake Me not, O Lord; O My God, be
not far from Me.  Make haste to help Me, O Lord My salvation."

3.  Among all the devout and beautiful fables of the "dispensation of paganism," there is nothing
finer than the fable of blind Tiresias and his staff.  By some sad calamity this old prophet
had lost the sight of his eyes, and to compensate their servant for that great loss the gods
endowed him with a staff with eyes.  As Aaron's rod budded before the testimony and bloomed
blossoms and yielded almonds, so Tiresias' staff budded eyes, and divine eyes too, for the
blind prophet's guidance and direction.  Tiresias had but to take his heaven-given staff in
his hand, when, straightway, such a divinity entered into the staff that it both saw for him
with divine eyes, and heard for him with divine ears, and then led him and directed him, and
never once in all his after journeys let him go off the right way.  All other men about him,
prophets and priests both, often lost their way, but Tiresias after his blindness, never, till
Tiresias and his staff became a proverb and a parable in the land.  And just such a staff,
just such a crutch, just such a pair of crutches, were the crutches of our own so homely Mr.
Ready-to-halt.  With all their lusty limbs, all the other pilgrims often stumbled and went
out of their way till they had to be helped up, led back, and their faces set right again.
But, last as Mr. Ready-to-halt always came in the procession--behind even the women and the
children as his crutches always kept him--you will seek in vain for the dot of those crutches
on any by- path or on any wrong road.  No; the fact is, if you wish to go to the same city,
and are afraid you lose the way; as Evangelist said, "Do you see yon shining light?" so I would
say to you to-night, "Do you see these crutch-marks on the road?"  Well, keep your feet in
the prints of these crutches, and as sure as you do that they will lead you straight to a chariot
and horses, which, again, will carry you inside the city gates. For Mr. Ready-to-halt's crutches
have not only eyes like Tiresias' staff, they have ears also, and hands and feet.  A lamp also
burns on those crutches; and wine and oil distil from their wonderful wood.  Happy blindness
that brings such a staff!  Happy exchange! eyes full of earth and sin for eyes full of heaven
and holiness!

4.  "They began to be merry," says our Lord, telling the story of the heart-broken father who
had got back his younger son from a far country. And even Feeble-mind and Ready-to-halt begin
to be merry on the green that day after Doubting Castle has fallen to Greatheart's arms.  So
he paid a boy a penny to hold one of his crutches, and, taking Miss Much-afraid by the hand,
to dancing they went.  And, I promise you he footed it well; the lame man leaped as an hart;
also the girl was to be commended, for she answered the music handsomely.  In spite of his
life-long infirmity, there was deep down in Mr. Ready-to-halt an unsuspected fund of good-humour.
There was no heartier merriment on the green that day than was the merriment that Mr. Ready-to-halt
knocked out of his nimble crutch.  "True, he could not dance without one crutch in his hand."
True, dear and noble Bunyan, thou canst not write a single page at any time or on any subject
without thy genius and thy tenderness and thy divine grace marking the page as thine own alone!

5.  The next time we see Mr. Ready-to-halt he is coming in on his crutches to see Christiana,
for she has sent for him to see him.  So she said to him, "Thy travel hither hath been with
difficulty, but that will make thy rest the sweeter."  And then in process of time there came
a post to the town and his business this time was with Mr. Ready-to-halt.  "I am sent for,"
said Mr. Ready-to-halt to his fellow-pilgrims, "and God shall surely visit you also.  Isaac
was a child of promise, and Mr. Ready-to-halt had an Isaac also on whom his last thoughts turned.
Isaac had been born to Abraham by a special and extraordinary and supernatural interposition
of the grace and the power of God; and Mr. Ready-to-halt had always looked on himself as a
second Abraham in that respect.  A second Abraham, and more.  True, his son was not yet a pilgrim;
perhaps he was too young to be so called; but Greatheart will take back the old man's crutches--Greatheart
was both man- of-war and beast-of-burden to the pilgrims and their wives and children--and
will in spare hours teach young Ready-to-halt the use of the crutch, till the son can use with
the same effect as his father his father's instrument.  Is your child a child of promise? 
Is he to you a product of nature, or of grace?  Did you receive him and his brothers and sisters
from God after you were as good as dead?  Did you ever steal in when his nurse was at supper
and say over his young cradle, He hath not dealt with me after my sins, nor rewarded me according
to my iniquities? Is it in your will laid up with Christ in God about your crutches and your
son what Mr. Ready-to-halt dictated on his deathbed?  And does God know that there is no wish
in your old heart a hundred times so warm for your son as is this wish,--that he may prove
better at handling God's promises than you have been?  Then, happy son, who has old Mr. Ready-to-
halt for his father!

6.  "He whom thou hast loved and followed, though upon crutches, expects thee at His table
the next day after Easter."  Take comfort, cripples! Had it been said that the King so expects
Greatheart, or Standfast, or Valiant-for-truth, that would have been after the manner of the
kings of this world.  But to insist on having Mr. Ready-to-halt beside Him by such and such
a day; to send such a post to a pilgrim who has not a single sound bone in all his body; to
a sinner without a single trustworthy grace in all his heart; to a poor and simple believer
who has nothing in his hand but one of God's own promises--Who is a king like unto our King?
Surely King David was never a better type of Christ than when he said to Mephibosheth, lame
in both his feet from his nurse's arms: "Fear not, Mephibosheth, for I will surely show thee
kindness, and thou shalt eat bread at my table continually."  And Mephibosheth shall always
be our spokesman when he bows himself and says in return: "What is thy servant, that thou shouldst
look upon such a dead dog as I am?"

VALIANT-FOR-TRUTH

   "--They are not valiant for the truth."--Jeremiah

   "--Ye should contend earnestly for the faith."--Jude.

   "Forget not Master Valiant-for-the-Truth,
   That man of courage, tho' a very youth.
   Tell every one his spirit was so stout,
   No man could ever make him face about."
   Bunyan.

"I am of Dark-land, for there was I born, and there my father and mother are still."  "Yes,
it doth," replied Valiant- for-truth.

1.  A very plain and practical lesson is already read to us all in Valiant-for-truth's explanation
of his own pilgrimage.  He tells the guide that he was made a pilgrim just by having the story
of The Pilgrim told to him.  All that Tell-true did was just to recite the story of the pilgrim,
when young Valiant's heart fell into a burning haste to be a pilgrim too.  My brethren, could
any lesson be plainer?  Read the Pilgrim's Progress with your children.  And, after a time,
read it again till they call it beautiful, and till you see the same burning haste in their
hearts that young Valiant felt in his heart.  Circulate the Pilgrim's Progress.  Make opportunities
to give the Pilgrim's Progress to the telegraph boys and errand boys at your door.  Never go
on a holiday without taking a dozen cheap and tasteful copies of The Pilgrim to give to boys
and girls in the country.  Make sure that no one, old or young, of your acquaintance, in town
or country, is without a good copy of The Pilgrim.  And the darker their house is, make all
the more sure that John Bunyan is in it.

2.  But the great lesson of Valiant's so impressive life lies in the tremendous fight he had
with three ruffians who all set upon him at once and well-nigh made an end of him.  For, when
we put by the curtains here again, and turn up the metaphors, what do we find?  What, but a
lesson of first-rate importance for many men among ourselves; for many public men, many ministers,
and many other much-in-earnest men.  For Valiant, as his name tells us, was set to contend
for the truth.  He had the truth.  The truth was put into his keeping, and he was bound to
defend it.  He was thrown into a life of controversy, and thus into all the terrible temptations--worse
than the temptations to whoredom or wine--that accompany a life of controversy.  The three
scoundrels that fell upon Valiant at the mouth of the lane were Wildhead, Inconsiderate, and
Pragmatic.  In other words, the besetting temptations of many men who are set as defenders
of the truth in religion, as well as in other matters, is to be wild-headed, inconsiderate,
self-conceited, and intolerably arrogant.  The bloody battle that Valiant fought, you must
know, was not fought at the mouth of any dark lane in the midnight city, nor on the side of
any lonely road in the moonless country.  This terrible fight was fought in Valiant's own heart.
For Valiant was none of your calculating and cold-blooded friends of the truth.  He did not
wait till he saw the truth walking in silver slippers.  Let any man lay a finger on the truth,
or wag a tongue against the truth, and he will have to settle it with Valiant.  His love for
the truth was a passion.  There was a fierceness in his love for the truth that frightened
ordinary men even when they were on his own side.  Valiant would have died for the truth without
a murmur.  But, with all that, Valiant had to learn a hard and a cruel lesson.  He had to learn
that he, the best friend of truth as he thought he was, was at the same time, as a matter of
fact, the greatest enemy that the truth had.  He had to take home the terrible discovery that
no man had hurt the truth so much as he had done.  Save me from my friend! the truth was heard
to say, as often as she saw him taking up his weapons in her behalf.  We see all that every
day.  We see Wildhead at his disservice of the truth every day.  Sometimes above his own name,
and sometimes with grace enough to be ashamed to give his name, in the newspapers.  Sometimes
on the platform; sometimes in the pulpit; and sometimes at the dinner-table.  But always to
the detriment of the truth. In blind fury he rushes at the character and the good name of men
who were servants of the truth before he was born, and whose shield he is not worthy to bear.
How shall Wildhead be got to see that he and the like of him are really the worst friends the
truth can possibly have?  Will he never learn that in his wild-bull gorings at men and at movements,
he is both hurting himself and hurting the truth as no sworn enemy of his and of the truth
can do?  Will he never see what an insolent fool he is to go on imputing bad motives to other
men, when he ought to be prostrate before God on account of his own?  More than one wild-headed
student of William Law has told me what a blessing they have got from that great man's teaching
on the subject of controversy.  Will the Wildheads here to- night take a line or two out of
that peace-making author and lay them to heart?  "My dear L-, take notice of this, that no
truths, however solid and well-grounded, will help you to any divine life, but only so far
as they are taught, nourished, and strengthened by an unction from above; and that nothing
more dries and extinguishes this heavenly unction than a talkative reasoning temper that is
always catching at every opportunity of hearing or telling some religious matters.  Stop your
ears and shut your eyes to all religious tales . . . I would no more bring a false charge against
a deist than I would bear false witness against an apostle.  And if I knew how to do the deists
more justice in debate I would gladly do it . . . And as the gospel requires me to be as glad
to see piety, equity, strict sobriety, and extensive charity in a Jew or a Gentile as in a
Christian; as it obliges me to look with pleasure upon their virtues, and to be thankful to
God that such persons have so much of true and sound Christianity in them; so it cannot be
an unchristian spirit to be as glad to see truths in one party of Christians as in another,
and to look with pleasure upon any good doctrines that are held by any sect of Christian people,
and to be thankful to God that they have so much of the genuine saving truths of the gospel
among them . . . Selfishness and partiality are very inhuman and base qualities even in the
things of this world, but in the doctrines of religion they are of a far baser nature.  In
the present divided state of the Church, truth itself is torn and divided asunder; and, therefore,
he is the only true Catholic who has more of truth and less of error than is hedged in by any
divided part. I say that the passage "in our signified of the term" is unintelligible. I am still
say so; and i who attempts to mend application, or modernise the form, says so too. The inquiring
next originate, Does he not mean no adps, when he says system?  And thus, uniting in heart and spirit with all
that is holy and good in all Churches, we enter into the true communion of saints, and become
real members of the Holy Catholic Church, though we are confined to the outward worship of
only one particular part of it. And thus we will like no truth the less because Ignatius Loyola
or John Bunyan were very jealous for it, nor have the less aversion to any error because Dr.
Trapp or George Fox had brought it forth."  If Wildhead would take a winter of William Law,
it would sweeten his temper, and civilise his manners, and renew his heart.

3.  Inconsiderate, again, is the shallow creature he is, and does the endless mischief that
he does, largely for lack of imagination.  He never thinks--neither before he speaks nor after
he has spoken.  He never put himself in another man's place all his days.  He is incapable
of doing that.  He has neither the head nor the heart to do that.  He never once said, How
would I like that said about me? or, How would I like that done to me? or, How would that look
and taste and feel to me if I were in So- and-so's place?  It needs genius to change places
with other men; it needs a grace beyond all genius; and this poor headless and heartless creature
does not know what genius is.  It needs imagination, the noblest gift of the mind, and it needs
love, the noblest grace of the heart, to consider the case of other people, and to see, as
Butler says, that we differ as much from other people as they differ from us.  And it is by
far the noblest use of the imagination, far nobler than carving a Laocoon, or painting a Last
Judgment, or writing a "Paradiso" or a "Paradise Lost," to put ourselves into the places of
other men so as to see with their eyes, and feel with their hearts, and sympathise with their
principles, and even with their prejudices.  Now, the inconsiderate man has so little imagination
and so little love that he is sitting here and does not know what I am saying; and what suspicion
he has of what I am saying is just enough to make him dislike both me and what I am saying
too.  But his dull suspicion and his blind dislike are more than made up for by the love and
appreciation of those lovers and defenders of the truth who painfully feel how wild and inconsiderate,
how hot-headed, how thoughtless, and how reckless their past service even of God's truth has been.

   "The King is full of grace and fair regard.
   Consideration, like an angel, came
   And whipp'd the offending Adam out of him."

4.  And as to Pragmatic, I would not call you a stupid person even though you confided to me
that you had never heard this footpad's name till to- night.  John Bunyan has been borrowing
Latin again, and not to the improvement of his style, or to the advantage of his readers. 
It would be insufferably pragmatic in me to begin to set John Bunyan right in his English;
but I had rather offend the shades of a hundred John Bunyans than leave my most unlettered
hearer without his full and proper Sabbath- night lesson.  The third armed thief, then, that
fell upon Valiant was, under other names, Impertinence, Meddlesomeness, Officiousness, Over-Interference.
Pragmatic,--by whatever name he calls himself, there is no mistaking him.  He is never satisfied.
He is never pleased.  He is never thankful.  He is always setting his superiors right.  He
is like the Psalmist in one thing, he has more understanding than all his teachers.  And he
enjoys nothing more than in letting them know that. There is nothing he will not correct you
in--from cutting for the stone to commanding the Channel Fleet.  Now, if all that has put any
visual image of Pragmatic into your mind, you will see at once what an enemy he too is fitted
to be to the truth.  For the truth does not stand in points, but in principles.  The truth
does not dwell in the letter but in the spirit.  The truth is not served by setting other people
right, but by seeing every day and in every thing how far wrong we are ourselves. The truth
is like charity in this, that it begins at home.  It is like charity in this also, that it
never behaves itself unseemly.  A pragmatical man, taken along with an inconsiderate man, and
then a wild- headed man added on to them, are three about as fatal hands as any truth could
fall into.  The worst enemy of the truth must pity the truth, and feel his hatred at the truth
relenting, when he sees her under the championship of Wildhead, Inconsiderate, and Pragmatic.

5.  The first time we see Valiant-for-truth he is standing at the mouth of Dead-man's-lane
with his sword in his hand and with his face all bloody.  "They have left upon me, as you see,"
said the bleeding man, "some of the marks of their valour, and have also carried away with
them some of mine."  And, in like manner, we see Paul with the blood of Barnabas still upon
him when he is writing the thirteenth of First Corinthians; and John with the blood of the
Samaritans still upon him down to his old age when he is writing his First Epistle; and John
Bunyan with the blood of the Quakers upon him when he is covertly writing this page of his
autobiography under the veil of Valiant-for-truth; and William Law with the blood of Bishop
Hoadly and John Wesley dropping on the paper as he pens that golden passage which ends with
Dr. Trapp and George Fox.  Where did you think Paul got that splendid passage about charity?
Where did you think William Law got that companion passage about Church divisions, and about
the Church Catholic?  Where are such passages ever got by inspired apostles, or by any other
men, but out of their own bloody battles with their own wild-headedness, intolerance, dislike,
and resentment?  Where do you suppose I got the true key to the veiled metaphor of Valiant-for-truth?
It does not exactly hang on the doorpost of his history.  Where, then, could I get it but off
the inside wall of my own place of repentance?  Just as you understand what I am now labouring
to say, not from my success in saying it, but from your own trespasses against humility and
love, your unadvised speeches, and your wild and whirling words.  Without shame and remorse,
without self-condemnation and self-contempt, none of those great passages of Paul, or John,
or Bunyan, or Law were ever written; and without a like shame, remorse, self-condemnation,
and self-contempt they are not rightly read.

   "Oh! who shall dare in this frail scene
   On holiest, happiest thoughts to lean,
   On Friendship, Kindred, or on Love?
   Since not Apostles' hands can clasp
   Each other in so firm a grasp,
   But they shall change and variance prove.

   "But sometimes even beneath the moon
   The Saviour gives a gracious boon,
   When reconciled Christians meet,
   And face to face, and heart to heart,
   High thoughts of Holy love impart
   In silence meek, or converse sweet.

   "Oh then the glory and the bliss
   When all that pained or seemed amiss
   Shall melt with earth and sin away!
   When saints beneath their Saviour's eye,
   Filled with each other's company,
   Shall spend in love the eternal day!"

6.  "It is so," replied its owner.  "Let a man have one of these blades with a hand to wield
it, and skill to use it, and he may venture upon an angel with it.  Its edges will never blunt.
It will cut flesh, and bones, and soul, and spirit, and all." Both Damascus and Toledo blades
were famous in former days for their tenacity and flexibility, and for the beauty and the edge
of their steel. But even a Damascus blade would be worthless in a weak, cowardly, or unskilled
hand; while even a poor sword in the hand of a good swordsman will do excellent execution.
And much more so when you have both a first- rate sword and a first-rate swordsman, such as
both Valiant and his Jerusalem blade were.  Ha! yes.  This is a right wonderful blade we have
now in our hand.  For this sword was forged in no earthly fire; and it was whetted to its unapproachable
sharpness on no earthly whetstone.  But, best of all for us, when a good soldier of Jesus Christ
has this sword girt on his thigh he is able then to go forth against himself with it; against
his own only and worst enemy--that is, against himself.  As here, against his own wildness
of head and pride of heart.  Against his own want of consideration also.  "My people do not
consider."  As also against himself as a lawless invader of other men's freedom of judgment,
following of truth, public honour, and good name.  As the Arabian warriors see themselves and
dress themselves in their swords as in a glass, so did Valiant-for-truth see the thoughts and
intents, the joints and the marrow of his own disordered soul in his Jerusalem blade.  In the
sheen of it he could see himself even when the darkness covered him; and with its two edges
all his after-life he slew both all real error in other men and all real evil in himself. 
"Thou hast done well," said Greatheart the guide.

7.  "Sir," said the widow indeed to Valiant-for-truth, "sir, you have in all places shown yourself
true-hearted."  The first time she ever saw this man that she is now seeing for the last time
on this side the river, his own mother would not have known him, he was so hacked to pieces
with the swords of his three assailants.  But as she washed the blood off the mangled man's
head and face and hands, she soon saw beneath all his bloody wounds a true, a brave, and a
generous-hearted soldier of the Cross.  The heart is always the man.  And this woman had lived
long enough with men to have discovered that.  And with all his sears she saw that it was at
bottom the truth of his heart that had cast him into so many bloody encounters.  There were
men in that company, and men near the river too, with far fewer marks of battle, and even of
defeat, upon them, who did not get this noble certificate and its accompanying charge and trust
from this clear-eyed widow.  And, then, she had never forgot--how could she?--his exclamation,
and almost embrace of her as of his own mother, when he burst out with his eyes full of blood,
"Why, is this Christian's wife?  What! and going on pilgrimage too?  It glads my heart! Good
man!  How joyful will he be when he shall see her and her children enter after him in at the
gates into the city!"  He would have been hacked a hundred times worse than he was before the
widow of Christian, and the mother of his children, would have seen anything but the manliest
beauty in a young soldier who could salute an old woman in that way.  It gladdened her heart
to hear him, you may be sure, as much as it gladdened his heart to see her.  And that was the
reason that she actually set Greatheart himself aside, and left her children under this young
man's sword and shield.  "I would also entreat you to have an eye to my children," she said.
Young men, has any dying mother committed her children, if you at any time see them faint,
to you?  Have you ever spoken so comfortably to any poor widow about her sainted husband that
she has passed by some of our foremost citizens, and has astonished and offended her lawyers
by putting a stripling like you into the trusteeship?  Did ever any dying mother say to you
that she had seen you to be so true-hearted at all times that she entreated you to have an
eye to her children?  Speaking at this point for myself, I would rather see my son so trusted
at such an hour by such a woman than I would see him the Chancellor of Her Majesty's Exchequer,
or the Governor of the Bank of England.  And so to-night would you.

STANDFAST

   "So stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved."--Paul.

In his supplementary picture of Standfast John Bunyan is seen at his very best, both as a religious
teacher and as an English author.  On the Enchanted Ground Standfast is set before us with
extraordinary insight, sagacity, and wisdom; and then in the terrible river he is set before
us with an equally extraordinary rapture and transport; while, in all that, Bunyan composes
in English of a strength and a beauty and a music in which he positively surpasses himself.
Just before he closes his great book John Bunyan rises up and once more puts forth his very
fullest strength, both as a minister of religion and as a classical writer, when he takes Standfast
down into that river which that pilgrim tells us has been such a terror to so many, and the
thought of which has so often affrighted himself.  "So-ho, friend, let us have your company,"
called out the guide.  At that the man stopped, and they came up to him.  "I know this man,"
said Mr. Honest; "his name, I know, is Standfast, and he is certainly a right good pilgrim."
Then follows a conversation between Mr. Honest and Mr. Standfast, in which some compliments
and courtesies are exchanged, such as are worthy of such men, met at such a time and in such
a place.  "Well, but, brother," said Valiant-for-truth, "tell us, I pray thee, what was it
that was the cause of thy being upon thy knees even now?  Was it for that some special mercy
laid obligations upon thee, or how?"  And then Standfast tells how as he was coming along musing
with himself, Madam Bubble presented herself to him and offered him three things.  "I was both
aweary and sleepy and also as poor as a howlet, and all that the wicked witch knew.  And still
she followed me with her enticements.  Then I betook me, as you saw, to my knees, and with
hands lift up and cries, I prayed to Him who had said that He would help.  So just as you came
up the gentlewoman went her way. Then I continued to give thanks for my great deliverance;
for I verify believe she intended me no good, but rather sought to make stop of me in my journey.
What a mercy is it that I did resist her, for whither might she not have drawn me?"

1.  "Well, as I was coming along I was musing with myself," said Standfast.  You understand
what it is to come along musing with yourself, do you not, my brethren?  "I will muse on the
work of Thy hands," says the Psalmist.  And again, "While I was musing the fire burned."  Well,
Standfast was much given to musing, just as David was.  Each several pilgrim has his own way
of occupying himself on the road; but Standfast could never get his fill just of musing.  Standfast
loved solitude. Standfast liked nothing better than to walk long stretches at a time all by
himself alone.  Standfast was like the apostle when he preferred to take the twenty miles from
Troas to Assos on foot and alone, rather than to round the cape on shipboard in a crowd.  "Minding
himself to go afoot," says the apostle's companion.  It would have made a precious chapter
in the Acts of the Apostles had the author of that book been able to give his readers some
of Paul's musings as he crossed the Troad on foot that day.  But in the absence of Paul's musings
we have here the musings of a man whom Paul would not have shaken off had he foregathered with
him on that lonely road.  For Standfast was in a deep and serious muse mile after mile, when,
who should step into the middle of his path right before him but Madam Bubble with her body
and her purse and her bed?  Now, had this hungry howlet of a pilgrim been at that moment in
any other but a musing mood of mind, he had to a certainty sold himself, soul and body, Celestial
City and all, to that impudent slut.  But, as He would have it who overrules Madam Bubble's
descents, and all things, Standfast was at that moment in one of his most musing moods, and
all her smiles and all her offers fell flat and poor upon him.  Cultivate Standfast's mood
of mind, my brethren.  Walk a good deal alone.  Strike across country from time to time alone
and have good long walks and talks with yourself.  And when you know that you are passing places
of temptation see that your thoughts, and even your imaginations, are well occupied with solemn
considerations about the certain issue of such and such temptations; and then, to you, as to
Standfast,

   "The arrow seen beforehand slacks its flight."

2.  But, musing alone, the arrow seen beforehand, and all, Standfast would have been a lost
man on that lonely road that day had he not instantly betaken himself to his knees.  And it
was while Standfast was still on his knees that the ascending pilgrims heard that concerned
and solemn noise a little ahead of them.  Did you ever suddenly come across a man on his knees?
Did you ever surprise a man at prayer as Greatheart and his companions surprised Standfast?
I do not ask, Did you ever enter a room and find a family around their morning or evening altar?
We have all done that.  And it left its own impression upon us.  But did you ever spring a
surprise upon a man on his knees alone and in broad daylight?  I did the other day.  It was
between eleven and twelve o'clock in the forenoon when I asked a clerk if his master was in.
Yes, he said, and opened his master's door.  When, before I was aware, I had almost fallen
over a man on his knees and with his face in his hands.  "I pray thee," said Valiant-for-truth,
"tell us what it was that drew thee to thy knees even now.  Was it that some special mercy
laid its obligations on thee, or how?"  I did not say that exactly to my kneeling friend, though
it was on the point of my tongue to say it.  My dear friend, I knew, had his own difficulties,
though he was not exactly as poor as a howlet.  And it might have been about some of his investments
that had gone out of joint that he went that forenoon to Him who had said that He would help.
Or, like the author of the Christian Perfection and The Spirit of Prayer, it was the sixth
hour of the day, and he may have gone to his knees for his clerks, or for his boys at school,
or for himself and for the man in the same business with himself right across the street. 
I knew that my friend had the charming book at home in which such counsels as these occur:
"If masters were thus to remember their servants, beseeching God to bless them, letting no
day pass without a full performance of this devotion, the benefit would be as great to themselves
as to their servants."  Or, again, he may have read in that noble book this passage: "If a
father were daily to make some particular prayer to God that He would please to inspire his
children with true piety, great humility, and strict temperance, what could be more likely
to make the father himself become exemplary in these virtues?"  Now, my friend (who can tell?)
may just that morning have lost his temper with his son; or he may last night have indulged
himself too much in eating, or in drinking, or in debate, or in detraction; and that may have
made it impossible for him to fix his whole mind on his office work that morning.  Or, just
to make another guess, when he opened the book I had asked him to buy and read, he may have
lighted on this heavenly passage: "Lastly, if all people when they feel the first approaches
of resentment or envy or contempt towards others; or if in all little disagreements and misunderstandings
whatever they should have recourse at such times to a more particular and extraordinary intercession
with God for such persons as had roused their envy, resentment, or discontent--this would be
a certain way to prevent the growth of all uncharitable tempers."  You may think that I am
taking a roundabout way of accounting for my friend's so concerned attitude at twelve o'clock
that business day; but the whole thing seemed to me so unusual at such a time and in such a
place that I was led to such guesses as these to account for it.  In so guessing I see now
that I was intruding myself into matters I had no business with; but all that day I could not
keep my mind off my blushing friend.  For, like Mr. Standfast, my dear friend blushed as he
stood up and offered me the chair he had been kneeling at.  "But, why, did you see me?" said
Mr. Standfast.  "Yes, I did," quoth the other, "and with all my heart I was glad at the sight."
"And what did you think?" said Mr. Standfast.

3.  "Was it," asked Valiant-for-truth, in a holy curiosity, "was it some special mercy that
brought thee to thy knees even now?"  Yes; Valiant-for- truth had exactly hit it.  Gracious
wits, like great wits, jump together. "Yes," confessed Standfast, "I continue to give thanks
for my great deliverance."  My brethren, you all pray importunately in your time of sore trouble.
Everybody does that.  But do you feel an obligation, like Standfast, to abide still on your
knees long after your trouble is past? Nature herself will teach us to pray; but it needs grace,
and great grace continually renewed, to teach us to praise, and to continue all our days to
praise.  How we once prayed, ay, as earnestly, and as concernedly, and as careless as to who
should see or hear us as Standfast himself!  How some of us here to-night used to walk across
a whole country all the time praying!  How we hoodwinked people in order to get away from them
to pray for twenty miles at a time all by ourselves!  Under that bush--it still stands to mark
the spot; in that wood, long since cut down into ploughed land--we could show our children
the spot to this day where we prayed, till a miracle was wrought in our behalf.  Yes, till
God sent from above and took us as He never took a psalmist, and set our feet upon a still
more wonderful rock.  How He, yes, HE, with His own hand cut the cords, broke the net, and
set us free!  Come, all ye that fear God! we then said, and said it with all sincerity too.
And yet, how have we forgotten what He did for our soul?  We start like a guilty thing surprised
when we think how long it is since we had a spell of thanksgiving.  Shame on us! What treacherous
hearts we have!  What short memories we have!  How soon we forgive ourselves, and so forget
the forgiveness of our God!  Brethren, let us still lay plans for praise as we used to do for
prayer.  If our friends will go out with us, let us at least insist on walking home alone.
Let us say with Paul that we get sick at sea; and, besides, that we have some calls to make
and some small accounts to settle before we leave the country.  Tell them not to wait dinner
for us.  And then let us take plenty of time.  Let us stop at all our old stations and call
back all our old terrors; let us repeat aloud our old psalms--the twenty-fifth, the fifty-first,
the hundred and third, and the hundred and thirtieth.  We used to terrify people with our prayers
as Standfast terrified the young pilgrims that day; let us surprise and delight them now with
our psalms of thanksgiving.  This is the perfection of all virtues.  Joy in God and thankfulness
to God is the highest perfection of a divine and holy life."  Well, then, what an endless cause
of joy and thankfulness have we!  Let us acknowledge it, and henceforth employ it; and we shall,
please God, even yet be counted as not low down but high up among the saints and the servants
of God.

4.  Christiana said many kind and wise and beautiful things to all the other pilgrims before
she entered the river, but it was observed that though she sent for Mr. Standfast, she said
not one word to him when he came; she just gave him her ring.  "The touch is human and affecting,"
says Mr. Louis Stevenson, in his delightful paper on Bagster's "Bunyan," in the Magazine of
Art.  By the way, do you who are lovers of Bunyan literature know that remarkable and delicious
paper?  The Messrs. Bagster should secure that paper and should issue an edition de luxe of
their neglected "Bunyan," with Mr. Stevenson's paper for a preface and introduction.  Bagster's
"Illustrated Bunyan," with an introduction on the illustrations by Mr. Louis Stevenson, if
I am not much mistaken, would sell by the thousand.

5.  Lord Rosebery knows books and loves books, and he has called attention to the surpassing
beauty of the English in the deathbed scenes of the Pilgrim's Progress.  And every lover of
pure, tender, and noble English must, like the Foreign Secretary, have all those precious pages
by heart.  Were it not that we all have a cowardly fear at death ourselves, and think it wicked
and cruel even to hint at his approaching death even to a fast-dying man, we would never let
any of our friends lie down on his sick-bed without having a reassuring and victorious page
of the Pilgrim read to him every day.  If the doctors would allow me, I would have these heavenly
pages reprinted in sick-bed type for all my people.  But I am afraid at the doctors.  And thus
one after another of my people passes away without the fortification and the foretaste that
the deathbeds of Christian, and Christiana, and Hopeful, and Mr. Fearing, and Mr. Feeble-mind,
and Mr. Honest, and Mr. Standfast would most surely have given to them.  Especially the deathbed,
if I must so call it, of Mr. Standfast.  But as Christiana said nothing that could be heard
to Mr. Standfast about his or her latter end, but just looked into his eyes and gave him her
ring, so I may not be able to say all that is in my heart when your doctor is standing close
by.  But you will understand what I would fain say, will you not?  You will remember, and will
have this heavenly book read to you alternately with your Bible, will you not?  Even the most
godless doctor will give way to you when you tell him that you know as well as he does just
how it is with you, and that you are to have your own way for the last time.  I know a doctor
who first forbade her minister and her family to tell his patient that she was dying, and at
the same time told them to take away from her bedside all such alarming books as the Pilgrim's
Progress and the Saint's Rest, and to read to her a reassuring chapter out of Old Mortality
and Pickwick.

It will, no doubt, put the best-prepared of us into a deep muse, as it put Standfast, when
we are first told that we must at once prepare ourselves for a change of life.  But I for one
would not for worlds miss that solemn warning, and that last musing-time.  It will all be just
as my Master pleases; but if it is within His will I shall till then continue to petition Him
that I may have a passage over the river like the passage of Standfast.  Or, if that may not
now be, then, at least, a musing-time like his.  The post from the Celestial City brought Mr.
Standfast's summons "open" in his hand.  And thus it was that Standfast's translation did not
take him by surprise.  Standfast was not plunged suddenly and without warning into the terrible
river.  He took the open summons into big own hand and read it out like a man.  After which
he went, as his manner was, for a good while into a deep and undisturbed muse.  As soon as
he came out of his muse he would have Greatheart to be sent for.  And then their last conversation
together proceeded.  And no one interfered with the two brave-hearted men.  No one interposed,
or said that Greatheart would exhaust or alarm Standfast, or would injuriously hasten his end.
Not only so, but all the way till he was half over the river, Standfast kept up his own side
of the noble conversation.  And it is his side of that half-earthly, whole-heavenly conversation
that I would like to have put into suitable type and scattered broadcast over all our sick-beds.

6.  "Tell me," says Valdes to Julia in his Christian Alphabet, "have you ever crossed a deep
river by a ford?"  "Yes," says Julia, "I have, many times."  "And have you remarked how that
by looking upon the water it seemed as though your head swam, so that, if you had not assisted
yourself, either by closing your eyes, or by fixing them on the opposite shore, you would have
fallen into the water in great danger of drowning?" "Yes, I have noticed that."  "And have
you seen how by keeping always for your object the view of the land that lies on the other
side, you have not felt that swimming of the head, and so have suffered no danger of drowning?"
"I have noticed that too," replied Julia.  Now, it was exactly this same way of looking, not
at the black and swirling river, but at the angelic conduct waiting for him at the further
bank, and then at the open gate of the Celestial City,--it was this that kept Standfast's head
so steady and his heart like a glowing coal while he stood and talked in the middle of the
giddy stream.  You would have thought it was Paul himself talking to himself on the road to
Assos.  For I defy even the apostle himself to have talked better or more boldly to himself
even on the solid midday road than Standfast talked to himself in the bridgeless river.  His
word I did use to gather for my food, and for antidotes against my faintings.  He has held
me, and I have kept me from my iniquities.  Yea, my steps He has strengthened in my way."

MADAM BUBBLE

   "Vanity of vanities, all is vanity."--Solomon.

   "I have overcome the world."--Our Lord.

   "Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world.  And
   the world passeth away, and the lust thereof."--John.

   "This bubble world."--Quarles.

Madam Bubble's portrait was first painted by the Preacher.  And he painted her portrait with
extraordinary insight, boldness, and truthfulness.  There is that in the Preacher's portrait
of Madam Bubble which only comes of the artist having mixed his colours, as Milman says that
Tacitus mixed his ink, with resentment and with remorse.  Out of His reading of Solomon and
Moses and the Prophets on this same subject, as well as out of His own observation and experience,
conflict and conquest, our Lord added some strong and deep and inward touches of His own to
that well-known picture, and then named it by the New Testament name of the World.  But it
was reserved for John Bunyan to fill up and to finish those outlines of Scripture and to pour
over the whole work his own depth and strength of colour, till, altogether, Madam Bubble stands
out as yet another masterpiece of our dreamer's astonishing genius.  Let us take our stand
before this heaving canvas, then, till we have taken attentive note of some of John Bunyan's
inimitable touches and strokes and triumphs of truth and art.  "One in very pleasant attire,
but old . . . This woman is a witch . . . I am the mistress of the world, she said, and men
are made happy by me . . . A tall, comely dame, something of a swarthy complexion."  In the
newly discovered portrait of a woman, by Albert Durer, one of the marks of its genuineness
is the way that the great artist's initials A. D. are pencilled in on the embroidery of the
lady's bodice.  And you will note in this gentlewoman's open dress also how J. B. is inextricably
woven in.  "She wears a great purse by her side also, and her hand is often in her purse fingering
her money.  Yea, this is she that has bought off many a man from a pilgrim's life after he
had fairly begun it.  She is a bold and an impudent slut also, for she will talk with any man.
If there be one cunning to make money in any place, she will speak well of him from house to
house . . .  And thus she has brought many to the halter, and ten thousand times more to hell.
None can tell of the mischief that she does.  And so on in the great original.  "Had she stood
by all this while," said Standfast, whose eyes were still full of her, "you could not have
set Madam Bubble more amply before me, nor have better described her features."  "He that drew
her picture was a good limner," said Mr. Honest, "and he that so wrote of her said true".

1.  "I am the mistress of this world," says Madam Bubble.  And though all the time she is a
bold and impudent slut, yet it is the simple truth that she does sit as a queen over this world
and over the men of this world. For Madam Bubble has a royal family like all other sovereigns.
She has a court of her own, too, with its ball-room presentations and its birthday honours.
She has a cabinet council also, and a bar and a bench with their pleadings and their decisions.
Far more than all that, she has a church which she has established and of which she is the
head; and a faith also of which she is the defender.  She has a standing army also for the
extension and the protection of her dominions.  She levies taxes, too, and sends out ambassadors,
and makes treaties, and forms offensive and defensive alliances.  But what a bubble all this
World is to him whose eyes have at last been opened to see the hollowness and the heartlessness
of it all!  For all its pursuits and all its possessions, from a child's rattle to a king's
sceptre, all is one great bubble. Wealth, fame, place, power; art, science, letters; politics,
churches, sacraments, and scriptures--all are so many bubbles in Madam Bubble's World.  This
wicked enchantress, if she does not find all these things bubbles already, by one touch of
her evil wand she makes them so.  She turns gold into dross, God into an idle name, and His
Word into words only; unless when in her malice she turns it into a fruitful ground of debate
and contention; a ground of malice and hatred and ill-will.  Vanity of vanities; all is vanity
and vexation of spirit.  Still, she sits a queen and a goddess to a great multitude: to all
men, to begin with.  And, like a goddess, she sheds abroad her spirit in her people's hearts
and lifts up upon them for a time the light of her countenance.

2.  "I am the mistress of the world," she says, "and men are made happy by me."--I would like
to see one of them.  I have seen many men to whom Madam Bubble had said that if they would
be ruled by her she would make them great and happy.  But though I have seen not a few who
have believed her and let themselves be ruled by her, I have never yet seen one happy man among
them.--The truth is, Madam Bubble is not able to make men happy even if she wished to do it.
She is not happy herself, and she cannot dispense to others what she does not possess.  And,
yet, such are her sorceries that, while her old dupes die in thousands every day, new dupes
are born to her every day in still greater numbers.  New dupes who run to the same excess of
folly with her that their fathers ran; new dupes led in the same mad dance after Madam Bubble
and her three daughters.  But, always, and to all men, what a bubble both the mother and all
her daughters are!  How they all make promises like their lying mother, and how, like her,
they all lead men, if not to the halter and to hell, as Greatheart said, yet to a life of vanity
and to a death of disappointment and despair!  What bubbles of empty hopes both she and her
three children blow up in the brains of men!  What pictures of untold happiness they paint
in the imaginations of men!  What pleasures, what successes in life, what honours and what
rewards she pledges herself to see bestowed! "She has her times and open places of cheating,"
said one who knew her and all her ways well.  And when men and women are still young and inexperienced,
that is one of her great cheating times.  At some seasons of the year, and in some waters,
to the fisherman's surprise and confusion, the fish will sometimes take his bare hook; a bit
of a red rag is a deadly bait.  And Madam Bubble's poorest and most perfunctory busking is
quite enough for the foolish fish she angles for.  And not in our salad days only, when we
are still green in judgment, but even to grey hairs, this wicked witch continues to entrap
us to our ruin.  Love, in all its phases and in all its mixtures, first deludes the very young;
and then place, and power, and fame, and money are the bait she busks for the middle-aged and
the old; and always with the same bubble end.  The whole truth is that without God, the living
and ever-present God, in all ages of it and in all parts and experiences of it, our human life
is one huge bubble.  A far-shining, high-soaring bubble; but sooner or later seen and tasted
to be a bubble--a deceit-filled, poison-filled bubble.--Happy by her!  All men happy by her!
The impudent slut!

3.  Another thing about this slut is this, that "she will talk with any man."  She makes up
to us and makes eyes at us just as if we were free to accept and return her three offers. 
And still she talks to us and offers us the same things she offered to Standfast till, to escape
her and her offers, he betook himself to his knees.  Nay, truth to tell, after she had deceived
us and ensnared us till we lay in her net cursing both her and ourselves, so bold and so impudent
and so persistent is this temptress slut, and such fools and idiots are we, that we soon lay
our eyes on her painted beauty again and our heads in her loathsome lap; our heads on that
block over which the axe hangs by an angry hair.  "She will talk with any man."  No doubt;
but, then, it takes two to make a talk, and the sad thing is that there are few men among us
so wise, so steadfast, and so experienced in her ways that they will not on occasion let Madam
Bubble talk her talk to them, and talk back again to her.  The oldest saint, the oftenest sold
and most dearly redeemed sinner, needs to suspect himself to the end, till he is clear out
of Madam Bubble's enchanted ground and for ever over that river of deliverance which shall
sweep Madam Bubble and all her daughters into the dead sea for ever.

   "The grey-haired saint may fail at last,
      The surest guide a wanderer prove;
   Death only binds us fast
      To the bright shore of love."

4.  "She highly commends the rich," the guide goes on about Madam Bubble, "and if there be
one cunning to get money in any place she will speak well of him from house to house."  "The
world," says Faber, "is not altogether matter, nor yet altogether spirit.  It is not man only,
nor Satan only, nor is it exactly sin.  It is an infection, an inspiration, an atmosphere,
a life, a colouring matter, a pageantry, a fashion, a taste, a witchery.  None of all these
names suit it, and all of them suit it.  Meanwhile its power over the human creation is terrific,
its presence ubiquitous, its deceitfulness incredible.  It can find a home under every heart
beneath the poles.  It is wider than the catholic church, and it is masterful, lawless, and
intrusive within it.  We are all living in it, breathing it, acting under its influence, being
cheated by its appearances, and unwarily admitting its principles."  Let young ministers who
wish to preach to their people on the World--after studying what the Preacher, and the Saviour,
and John, and John Bunyan say about the World,--still read Faber's powerful chapter in his
Creator and Creature.  Yes; Madam Bubble finds a home for herself in every heart beneath the
poles.  The truth is Madam Bubble has no home, as she has no existence, but in human hearts.
And all that Solomon, and our Saviour, and John, and John Bunyan, and Frederick Faber say about
the world and about Madam Bubble they really say about the heart of man.  It is we, you and
I, my brethren, who so highly commend the rich.  It is we ourselves here who speak well from
house to house of him whose father or whose self has been cunning to get money.  We either
speak well or ill of them.  We either are sick with envy at them, or we fawn upon them and
fall down before them.  How men rise in our esteem in the degree that their money increases!
With what reverence and holy awe we look up at them as if they were gods and the sons of gods!
They become more than mortal men to our reverent imaginations.  How happy, how all but blessed
they must be! we say to ourselves.  Within those park gates, under those high towers, in that
silver-mounted carriage, surrounded with all those liveried servants, and loved and honoured
by all those arriving and leaving guests--what happiness that rich man must have!  We are either
eaten up of lean-eyed envy of this and that rich man, or we positively worship them as other
men worship God and His saints.  Yes; Madam Bubble is our very mother.  She conceived us and
she suckled us.  We were brought up in her nurture and admonition.  We learned her Catechism,
and her shrine is in our heart to-night.  Like her, if only a pilgrim is poor, we scorn him.
We will not know him.  But if there be any one, pilgrim or no, cunning to get money, we honour
him, and we claim him as our kindred and relation, our acquaintance and our friend.  We will
speak often of him as such from house to house.  Just see if we will not.  There is room in
our hearts, Madam Bubble, there is room in our hearts for thee!

5.  "She loves them most that think best of her."  But, surely, surely, the guide goes quite
too far in blaming and being hard upon poor Madam Bubble for that?  For, to give her fair play,
she is not at all alone in that.  Is the guide himself wholly above that?  Do we not all do
that?  Is there one in ten, is there one in a thousand, who hates and humiliates himself because
his love of men and women goes up or down just as they think of him?  Yes; Greatheart is true
to his great name in his whole portrait of Madam Bubble also, and nowhere more true than in
this present feature.  For when any man comes to have any true greatness in his heart--how
he despises and detests himself as he finds himself out in not only claiming kindred and acquaintance
with the rich and despising and denying the poor; but, still more, in loving or hating other
men just as they love or hate him!  The world loves her own.  Yes; but he who has been taken
out of the world, and who has had the world taken out of him, he loves--he strives to love,
he goes to his knees every day he lives to love--those who not only do not think well of him,
but who both think ill of him and speak ill of him.  "Humility," says William Law, "does not
consist in having a worse opinion of ourselves than we deserve, or in abasing ourselves lower
than we really are.  But as all virtue is founded in truth, so humility is founded in a true
and just sense of our weakness, misery, and sin.  He who rightly feels and lives in this sense
of his condition lives in humility.  And, it may be added, when our hearts are wholly clothed
with humility we shall be prompt to approve the judgment and to endorse the sentence of those
who think and speak the least good of us and the most evil."

6.  "'Twas she," so the guide at last wound up, "that set Absalom against his father, and Jeroboam
against his master.  None can tell all the mischief that Madam Bubble does.  She makes variance
between rulers and subjects, between parents and children, 'twixt neighbour and neighbour,
'twixt a man and his wife, 'twixt a man and himself, 'twixt the flesh and the heart."  Now,
I shall leave that last indictment and its lessons and its applications to yourselves, my brethren.
You will get far more good out of this accumulated count against Madam Bubble if you explain
it, and open it up, and prove it, and illustrate it to yourselves.  Explain, then, in what
way this sorceress set Absalom against his father and Jeroboam against his master.  Point out
in what way she makes variance between a ruler and his subjects, and give illustrations.  Put
your finger on a parent and on a child between whom there is variance at this moment on her
account. And, if you are that parent or that child, what have you done to remove that variance?
Name two neighbours that to your knowledge Madam Bubble has come between; and say what you
have done to be a peacemaker there. Set down what you would say to a man and his wife so as
to put them on their guard against Madam Bubble ever coming in between them.  And, last and
best of all, point out to yourself at what times and in what ways this wicked witch tries to
make variance between God's Holy Spirit striving within you and your own evil heart still strong
within you.  When you are weary and sleepy and hungry as a howlet, and, Madam Bubble and her
three daughters make a ring round you, what do you do?  Do you ever take to your knees?  Really
and honestly, do you?  When you find yourself out looking with holy fear on a rich and lofty
relation, and with insufferable contempt on a poor and intrusive relation, by what name do
you call yourself?  Write it down.  And when she would fain put variance between you and those
who do not think well of you, what steps do you take to foil her?  Where and how do you get
strength at that supreme moment to think of others as you would have them think of you?  "Oh,"
said Standfast, "what a mercy it is that I did resist her! for to what might she not have drawn
me?"

GAIUS

   "Gaius, mine host."--Paul.

Goodman Gaius was the head of a hostel that stood on the side of the highway well on to the
Celestial City.  The hostess of the hostel was no more, and the old hostel-keeper did all her
once well-done work and his own proper work into the bargain.  Every day he inspected the whole
house with his own eyes, down even to the kitchen and the scullery.  The good woman had left
our host an only daughter; but, "Keep her as much out of sight as is possible," she said, and
so fell asleep.  And Gaius remembered his wife's last testament every day, till none of the
hostel customers knew that there was so much as a young hostess in all the house.  "Yes, gentlemen,"
replied the old innkeeper.  "Yes, come in. The message here is not life ashamed, but life covered
with shame. In more awareness MR. HALLIWELL, now without using why, has used the term delightful;
but so such two succeeding words of his explanation, "sweet, pleasant", he must perpetrate to have taken
at random from an dictionary, forgetting that he was not knowing the statement in its ordinary sense;
for it is not possible that he can suppose King to have furnished the word in the sense to the
active participle. Again, though i do not call the at all the expression that Shakspeare would utilize,
it is rather allowable as that general characteristic; but a anagram actually used would appear
to prefer the result of the action, which would have been productive of anything but pleasure.
In long, as we are agreed that the word delighted in the passage in question in its present
sense is unintelligible, likely also are we, i believe, agreed that the substitute, if the, may
be used in the sense.

Absolutely, with regard to the first happening failed by MR. HALLIWELL of this activity of
the passive for the active participial, when i were sure that the delinquent were well out
of hearing, and not so "to rise now and imply us from our stools," i should be disposed to repeat
much accusation of impertinence against the editor who altered "professed"
to "professing".

The word professed is one of individual use, and in the present instance here intelligible.
"to your bosom, professed to entertain so the love and care for our mother, i look him," imagines
to express the sense of the passage: a uncertainty is implied by the expression, but there
is the directness of insult in the term professing quite inconsistent
with the character of Cordelia.

"becomed
love" is love suited or reduced to the occasion. The use to the passive participial is every idiom
that appropriate than this of the active, though latter a is more
common undoubtedly.

In the next instance, i have to lose that there is a the verb as of guile. Guile is latter noun;
and "guiled shore" is guile-endowed, or charactered shore. According to the rule, no modern word
talented, that is, talent-fitted, has been organize, it not having been considered that licences are
let in poetry that are unsuited to ordinary language.

The passage next referred to is conditional, and i regard the use of the passive participial
too, now, as correct.

I have thus continue Title. HALLIWELL'S list of the number which usually forms the exception apparently
than that concept; and if accident, error, error in copying, or other special circumstance be not held
sufficient to account for the single remaining instance, i have then possibly of say that i push
deformed to deforming, as own name applied disparagingly to Time's hand as more in accordance with
shakspeare's practice, who was not in the habit with repeating the
same idea, which, in the the case, would occur again of the word "defeatures"
in any following line.

MR. HALLIWELL would, doubtless
observe other instances, quite more felicitous than these; at present,
all i can say is that he has adopted to entertainment that the use to the
passive for a active participle was common of Shakspeare. As to other
variations between this grammatical usage in Shakspeare's day and a of
our a, i assure believe him that i am not only thus ignorant of the
fact as he look.
Let them see how that venerable princess went quickly to her kneading-trough and oven and prepared
an extempore collation of cakes and pilau for the angels.  How few ladies, whether Gentiles
or Jewesses, could do the like in the present day!"

2.  The wistful and punctilious attention that Goodman Gaius paid to each individual guest
of his was a fine feature in his munificent hospitality. He made every one who crossed his
doorstep, down even to Mr. Fearing, feel at once at home, such was his exquisite as well as
his munificent hospitality.  All the same, for a long time Mr. Fearing was mortally afraid
of the servants.  He would as soon have thought of stamping his foot for a duchess to come
up as for any of Gaius's serving-maids.  He was afraid to make any noise in his room lest all
the house should hear it.  He was afraid to touch anything in the room lest it should fall
and be broken.  We ourselves, with all our assumed ease and elaborate abandon, are often afraid
to ring our bell even in an inn.  Mr. Fearing would as soon have pulled the tail of a rattlesnake.
But before their sojourn was over, the Guide was amazed at Mr. Fearing, for that hare-hearted
pilgrim would be doing things in the house that he himself would scarcely do who had been in
the house a thousand times.  It was Gaius's exuberant heartiness that had demoralised Mr. Fearing
and made him almost too forward even for a wayside inn.  In little things also Gaius, mine
host, showed his sensitive and solicitous hospitality.  We all know housekeepers, not to say
innkeepers, and not otherwise ungenerous housekeepers either who will grudge us a sixpennyworth
of sticks and coals in a cold night, and that, too, in a room furnished to overflowing by Morton
Brothers or the Messrs. Maple.  We take a candlestick and a dozen candles with us in the boot
of the carriage when we wish to read or write late into the night in that great house.  Another
housekeeper, who would give you her only daughter with her wealthy dowry, will sometimes be
seen by all in her house to grudge you a fresh cup of afternoon tea when you drop in to see
her and her daughter.  She says to herself that it is to spare the servants the stairs; but,
all the time, under the stairs, the servants are blushing for the sometimes unaccountable stinginess
of their unusually munificent mistress.  I shall give you "line upon line, precept upon precept,
here a little and there a little" of Aristotle upon munificence in little things till you come
up to his pagan standard.  "There is a real greatness," he says, "even in the way that some
men will buy a toy to a child.  Even in the smallest matters the munificent man will act munificently!"
As Gaius, mine host, munificently did.

3.  Speaking of children, what a night of entertainment good old Gaius gave the children of
the pilgrim party!  "Let the boys have the crumbed milk," he gave orders.  "Butter and honey
shall they eat," he exclaimed over them as that brimming dish came up.  "This was our Lord's
dish when He was a child," he said to the mother of the boys, "that He might know to refuse
the evil and to choose the good."  "Forbidden fruit," said the host, "will make you sick, but
not what our Lord hath tolerated."  While they were thus talking they were presented with another
dish, and it was a dish of nuts.

Then Samuel whispered to his mother and said, "Mother, this is a very good man's house; let
us stay here a good while before we go any farther."  The which Gaius the host overhearing,
said, "With a very good will, my child."

4.  Widower as old Gaius was, and never for a single hour forgot that he was, there was a certain
sweet and stately gallantry awakened in his withered old heart at the sight of Christiana and
Mercy, and especially at the sight of Matthew and Mercy when they were seen together.  He seems
to have fallen almost in love with that aged matron, as he called her, and the days of his
youth came back to him as he studied the young damsel, who was to her as a daughter.  And this
set the loquacious old innkeeper upon that famous oration about women which every man who has
a mother, or a wife, or a sister, or a daughter has by heart.  And from that he went on to
discourse on the great advantages of an early marriage.  He was not the man, nor was he speaking
to a mother who was the woman, ever to become a vulgar and coarse-minded matchmaker; at the
same time, he liked to see Matthew and Mercy sent out on a message together, leaving it to
nature and to grace to do the rest.  The pros and cons of early marriage were often up at his
hearty table, but he always debated, and Gaius was a great debater, that true hospitality largely
consisted in throwing open the family circle to let young people get well acquainted with one
another in its peace and sweetness.  And Gaius both practised what he preached, and at the
same time endorsed his watchful wife's last testament, when he gave his daughter Phebe to James,
Christiana's second son, and thus was left alone, poor old Gaius, when the happy honeymoon
party started upward from his hostel door.

5.  Their next host was one Mr. Mnason, a Cyprusian by nation, and an old disciple.  "How far
have you come to-day?" he asked.  "For harbour," said the host, "you see what it is, but for
good company that will appear in the trial." After they were a little rested Old Honest again
asked his host if there were any store of good people in that town; and, "How," he said, "shall
we do to see some of them?  Then Mr. Mnason stamped with his foot and his daughter Grace came
up, when he sent her out for five of his friends in the town, saying that he had a guest or
two in his house at present to whom he would like to introduce them.

Now, this is another of the good qualities of a good host, to know the best and the most suitable
people in the town, and to be on such terms with them that on short notice they will step across
to help to entertain such travellers as had come to Mr. Mnason's table.  And it is an excellent
thing to be sure that when we are so invited we shall not only get a good dinner, but also,
as good "kitchen" with our dinner, good company and good conversation.  It is nothing short
of a fine art to gather together and to seat suitably beside one another good and suitable
people as Mr. and Miss Mnason did in their hospitable house that afternoon.  And then, as to
the talk: let the host and the hostess introduce the guests, and then let the guests introduce
their own topics. And as far as possible, in a city and a day like this, let our topics be
books rather than people.  And let the books be the books that the guests have read rather
than those that the host and the hostess have read. Books are a fine subject for a talk at
table.  Only, let great readers order their learned and literary talk so as not to lead the
less learned into temptation.  There is no finer exercise of fine feeling than to be able to
carry on a conversation about matters that other people present are ignorant of, and at the
same time to interest them, to set them at ease, and to make them forget both you and themselves.
I had a letter the other day from an English Church clergyman, in which he tells me that his
bishop is coming this month to his vicarage for a kind of visitation and retreat, and that
they are to have William Law's Characters and Characteristics read aloud to them when the bishop
and the assembled clergy are at their meals.  For my part, I would rather hear a good all-
round talk on that book by the bishop and his clergy after they had all read the book over
and over again at home.  But such readings at assembled meals have all along been a feature
of the best fraternal life in the Church of England and in some of the sister churches.

6.  Now, after dining and supping repeatedly with garrulous old Gaius, and with the all-but-silent
Mr. Mnason, I have come home ruminating again and again on this--that a good host, the best
host, lets his guests talk while he attends to the table.  If the truth may even be whispered
to one's-self about a table that one has just left, Gaius did his best to spoil his good supper
by his own over-garrulity.  It was good talk that he entertained his waiting guests with, but
we may have too much of a good thing.  His oration in praise of women was an excellent oration,
had it been delivered in another house than his own; and, say, when he was asked to give the
health of Christiana, or of Matthew the bridegroom and Mercy the bride, it would then have
been perfect; but not in his own house, and not when his guests were waiting for their supper.
On the other hand, you should have seen that perfect gentleman, Mr. Mnason.  For that true
old Christian and old English gentleman never once opened his mouth after he had set his guests
a-talking.  He was too busy watching when any man's dish was again empty.  He was too much
delighted to see that every one of his guests was having his punctual share of the supper,
and at the same time his full share of the talk.  Mr. Fearing's small voice was far more pleasant
to Mr. Mnason than his own voice was in his own best story.  As I opened my own door the other
night after supping with Mr. and Miss Mnason, I said to myself--One thing I have again seen
and learned to-night, and that is, that a host, and still more a hostess, should talk less
at their own table than their most silent, most bashful, and most backward guest.  "Make this
an ordinance for thee," said Rabban Shammai to his sons in the law; "receive all thy guests
with a pleasant expression of countenance, and then say little and do much."

CHRISTIAN

   "The disciples were called Christians first at Antioch."--Luke.

   "Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian."--King Agrippa.

   "Let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from
   iniquity."--Paul.

All the other personages in the Pilgrim's Progress come and go; they all ascend the stage for
a longer or shorter time, and then pass off the stage and so pass out of our sight; but Christian
in the First Part, and Christiana in the Second Part, are never for a single moment out of
our sight.  And, accordingly, we have had repeated occasion and opportunity to learn many excellent
lessons from the chief pilgrim's upward walk and heavenly conversation.  But so full and so
rich are his life and his character, that some very important things still remain to be collected
before we finally close his history.  "Gather up the fragments that nothing be lost," said
our Lord, after His miraculous meal of multiplied loaves and fishes with His disciples.  And
in like manner I shall now proceed to gather up some of the remaining fragments of Christian's
life and character and experience.  And I shall collect these fragments into the three baskets
of his book, his burden, and his sealed roll and certificate.

1.  And first, a few things as to his book.  We hear a great deal in these advertising days,
and not one word too much, about the books that have influenced and gone largely to the making
of our great men; but Graceless, like John Bunyan, his biographer, was a man of but one book.
But, then, that book was the most influential of all books; it was the Book of books; it was
God's very own and peculiar Book.  And those of us who, like this man, have passed out of a
graceless into a gracious state will for ever remember how that same Book at that time influenced
us till it made us what we are and shall yet be.  We read many other good books at that epoch
in our life, but it was the pure Bible that we read and prayed over out of sight the most.
We needed no commentators or exegetes on our simple Bible in those days.  The great texts stood
out to our eyes in those days as if they had been written with a sunbeam; while all other books
(and we read nothing but the best books in those days) looked like twilight and rushlight beside
our Bible. In those immediate, direct, and intense days we would have satisfied Wordsworth
and Matthew Arnold themselves in the way we read our Bible with our eye never off the object.
The Four Last Things were ever before us--death and judgment, heaven and hell.  Graceless at
that time and at that stage would have satisfied the exigent author of the Practical Treatise
upon Christian Perfection where he says that "we are too apt also to think that we have sufficiently
read a book when we have so read it as to know what it contains.  This reading may be quite
sufficient as to many books; but as to the Bible we are not to think that we have read it enough
because we have often read and heard what it teaches.  We must read our Bible, not to know
what it contains, but to fill our hearts with the spirit of it."  And, again, and on this same
point, "There is this unerring key to the right use of the Bible.  The Bible has only one intent,
and that is to make a man know, resist, and abhor the working of his fallen earthly nature,
and to turn the faith, hope, and longing desire of his heart to God; and therefore we are only
to read our Bibles with this view and to learn this one lesson from it . . . The critic looks
into his books to see how Latin and Greek authors have used the words 'stranger' and 'pilgrim,'
but the Christian, who knows that man lives in labour and toil, in sickness and pain, in hunger
and thirst, in heat and cold among the beasts of the field, where evil spirits like roaring
lions seek to devour him--he only knows in what truth and reality man is a poor stranger and
a distressed pilgrim upon the earth."  John Bunyan read neither Plato nor Aristotle, but he
read David and Paul till he was the chief of sinners, and till he was first the Graceless and
then the Christian of his own next-to-the-Bible book.

2.  In the second place, and as to his burden.  We are supplied with no particulars as to the
first beginnings, the gradual make-up, and at last the terrible size of Christian's burden.
What this pilgrim's youthful life must have been in such a city as his native city was, and
while he was still a young man of such a name and such a character in such a city, we are left
to ourselves to think and consider.  Graceless was his name by nature, and his life was as
his name and his nature were.  Still, as I have said, we have no detailed and particular account
of his early life when his burden was still day and night in the making up.  How long into
your life were you graceless, my brother?  And what kind of life did you lead day and night
before you were persuaded or alarmed, as the case may have been with you, into being a Christian?
What burdens do you carry on your broken back to this day that were made up in the daylight
or in the darkness by your own hands in your early days?  Were you early or were you too late
in your conversion?  Or are you truly converted to God and to salvation even yet?  And are
you at this moment still binding a burden on your back that you shall never lay down on this
side your grave--it may be, not on this side your burning bed in hell?  Ask yourselves all
that before God and before your own conscience, and make yourselves absolutely sure that God
at any rate is not mocked; and, therefore that you, too, shall in the end reap exactly as you
from the beginning have sown.  "How camest thou by thy burden at first?" asked Mr. Worldly-Wiseman
at the trembling pilgrim.  "By reading this book in my hand," he answered.  And, in the long
run, it is always the Bible that best creates a sinner's burden, binds it on his back, and
makes it so terribly heavy to bear.  Fear of death and judgment will sometimes make up and
bind on a sinner's burden; and sometimes the fear of man's judgment on this side of death will
do it.  Fear of being found out in some cases will make a man's secret sin far too heavy for
him to bear. The throne of public opinion is not a very white throne; at the same time, it
is a coarse forecast and a rough foretaste of the last judgment; and the fear of it not seldom
makes a man's burden simply intolerable to him.  Sometimes a great sinner's burden leads him
to flight and outlawry; sometimes to madness and self-murder; and sometimes, by the timeous
and sufficient grace of God, to the way of escape that our pilgrim took. Tenderness of conscience,
also, simple softness of heart and conscience, will sometimes make a terrible burden out of
what other men would call a very light matter.  Bind a burden on that iron pillar standing
there, and it will feel nothing and say nothing.  But, bind the same burden on that man in
whose seat that dead pillar takes up a sitter's room, and he will make all that are in the
house hear his sighs and his groans.  And lay an act of sin--an evil word or evil work or evil
thought--on one man among us, and he will walk about the streets with as erect a head and as
smiling a countenance and as light a step as if he were an innocent child; while, lay half
as much on his neighbour, and it will so bruise him to the earth that all men will take knowledge
of him that he is a miserable man.  Our Lord could no doubt have carried His cross from the
hall of judgment to the hill-top without help had His back not been wet with blood.  What with
a whole and an unwealed body, a well-rested and well-nourished body, He could easily have carried,
with His broken body and broken heart He quite sank under.  And so it is with His people. 
One of His heart-broken, heart-bleeding people will sink down to death and hell under a burden
of sin and corruption that another of them will scarcely feel or know or believe that it is
there.  Some sins again in themselves, and by reason of several aggravations, are far more
heavy to bear than others, and by some sinners than others.  I was reading Bishop Andrewes
to myself last night and came upon this pertinent passage.  "Sin: its measure, its harm, its
scandal.  Its quality: how often--how long. The person by whom: his age, condition, state,
enlightenment.  Its manner, motive, time, and place.  The folly of it, the ingratitude of it,
the hardness of it, the presumptuousness of it.  By heart, by mouth, by deed.  Against God,
my neighbours, my own body.  By knowledge, by ignorance.  Willingly and unwillingly.  Of old
and of late.  In boyhood and youth, in mature and old age.  Things done once, repeated often,
hidden and open.  Things done in anger, and from the lust of the flesh and of the world.  Before
and after my call.  Asleep by night and awake by day.  Things remembered and things forgotten.
Through the fiery darts of the enemy, through the unclean desires of the flesh--I have sinned
against Thee.  Have mercy on me, O God, and forgive me!"  That is the way some men's burdens
are made up to such gigantic proportions and then bound on by such acute cords.  That is the
way that Lancelot Andrewes and John Bunyan walked solitarily in the fields, sometimes reading
and sometimes praying, till the one of them put himself into his immortal Devotions, and the
other into his immortal Grace Abounding and Pilgrim's Progress.

But, then, how it could be that this so happy man was scarcely a stone- cast past the cross
when he had begun again to burden himself with fresh sin, and thus to disinter all his former
sin?  How a true pilgrim comes to have so many burdens to bear, and that till he ceases to
be any longer a pilgrim,--a burden of guilt, a burden of corruption, and a burden of bare creaturehood,--I
must leave all that, and all the questions connected with all that, for you all to think out
and work out for yourselves; and you will not say any morning on this earth, like Mrs. Timorous,
that you have little to do.

3.  The third of the three Shining Ones who saluted Christian at the cross set a mark on his
forehead, and put a roll with a seal set upon it into his hand.  A roll and a seal which he
bid him look on as he ran, and that he should give that roll in at the Celestial Gate.  Bunyan
does not in all places come up to his usual clearness in what he says about the sealed roll.
We must believe that he understood his own meaning and intention in all that he says, first
and last, about the roll, but he has not always made his meaning clear, at least to one of
his readers. Theological students, and, indeed, all thoughtful Christian men, are invited to
read Dr. Cunningham's powerful paper on Assurance in his Reformers.  The whole literature of
Assurance is there taken up and weighed and sifted with all that great writer's incomparable
learning and power and judgment.  Our Larger Catechism, also, is excellent on this subject;
and this subject is a favourite commonplace with all our best Calvinistic, Puritan, and Evangelical
authors.  Let us take two or three passages out of those authors just as a specimen, and so close.

"Can true believers"--Larger Catechism, Question 80--"Can true believers be infallibly assured
that they are in an estate of grace, and that they shall persevere therein to the end?  Answer:
Such as truly believe in Christ, and endeavour to walk in all good conscience before Him may,
without extraordinary revelation, by faith grounded upon the truth of God's promise, and by
the Spirit enabling them to discern in themselves those graces to which the promises of eternal
life are made, and bearing witness with their spirits that they are the children of God, they
may be infallibly assured that they are in the estate of grace, and shall persevere therein
unto salvation."  Question 81: "Are all true believers at all times assured of their present
being in a state of grace, and that they shall be saved?  Answer: Assurance of grace and salvation
not being of the essence of faith, true believers may wait long before they obtain it, and,
after the enjoyment thereof, may have it weakened and intermitted through manifold distempers,
sins, temptations, and desertions; yet are they never left without such a presence and support
of the Spirit of God as keeps them from sinking into utter despair."  "A Christian's assurance,"
says Fraser of Brea, "though it does not firstly flow from his holiness, yet is ever after
proportionable to his holy walking.  Faith is kept in a pure conscience.  Sin is like a blot
of ink fallen upon our evidence.  This I found to be a truth."  "It was the speech of one to
me," says Thomas Shepard of New England, "next to the donation of Christ, no mercy like this,
to deny assurance long; and why? For if the Lord had not, I should have given way to a loose
heart and life.  And this is a rule I have long held--long denial of assurance is like fire
to burn out some sin and then the Lord will speak peace." "Serve your God day and night faithfully,"
says Dr. Goodwin.  "Walk humbly; and there is a promise of the Holy Ghost to come and fill
your hearts with joy unspeakable and glorious to rear you up to the day of redemption.  Sue
this promise out, wait for it, rest not in believing only, rest not in assurance by graces
only; there is a further assurance to be had."  "I would not give a straw for that assurance,"
says John Newton, "which sin will not damp.  If David had come from his adultery and still
have talked of his assurance, I should have despised his speech."  "When we want the faith
of assurance," says Matthew Henry, "let us live by the faith of adherence."

CHRISTIANA

   "Honour widows that are widows indeed."--Paul.

We know next to nothing of Christiana till after she is a widow indeed. The names of her parents,
and what kind of parents they were, the schools and the boarding-schools to which they sent
their daughter, her school companions, the books she read, if she ever read any books at all,
the amusements she was indulged in and indulged herself in--on all that her otherwise full
and minute biographer is wholly silent.  He does not go back beyond her married life; he does
not even go back to the beginning of that.  The only thing we are sure of about Christiana's
early days is that she was an utterly ungodly woman and that she married an utterly ungodly
man.  "Have you a family?  Are you a married man?" asked Charity of Christian in the House
Beautiful.  "I have a wife and four small children," he replied.  "And why did you not bring
them along with you?" Then Christian wept, and said: "Oh, how willingly would I have done it;
but they were all utterly averse to my going on pilgrimage."  "But you should have talked to
them," said Charity, "and have endeavoured to have shown them the danger of being behind."
"So I did," answered Christian. "And did you pray to God that He would bless your counsel to
them?"  "Yes, and with much affection; for you must think that my wife and poor children were
very dear unto me."  "But what could they say for themselves why they came not?"

But what her husband's conversion, good example, and most earnest entreaties could not all
do for his worldly wife, that his sudden death speedily did.  And thus it is that both Christiana's
best life, all our interest in her, and all our information about her, dates, sad to say, not
from her espousal, nor from her marriage day, nor from any part of her married life, but from
her husband's death.  Her maidenhood has no interest for us; all our interest is fixed on her
widowhood.  This work of fiction now in our hands begins where all other works of fiction end;
for in the life of religion, you must know, our best is always before us. Well, scarcely was
her husband dead when Christiana began to accuse herself of having killed him.  To take her
own bitter words for it, the most agonising and remorseful thoughts about her conduct to her
husband stung her heart like so many wasps.  Ah yes!  A wasp's sting is but a blade of innocent
grass compared with the thoughts that have stung us all as we recalled what we said and did
to those who are now no more.  There are graves in the churchyard we dare not go near.  "I
have sinned away your father!" she cried, as she threw herself on the earth at the feet of
her astounded children.  "I have sinned away your father and he is gone!" And yet there was
no mark of a bullet and no gash of a knife on his dead body, and no chemistry could have extracted
one grain of arsenic or of strychnine out of his blood.  But there are many ways of taking
a man's life besides those of poison or a knife or a gunshot.  Constant fault- finding, constant
correction and studied contempt before strangers, total want of sympathy and encouragement,
gloomy looks, rough remarks, all blame and never a word of praise, things like these between
man and wife will kill as silently and as surely as poison or suffocation. From the quantity of.
serge bought, as well as from the nature of the material, i think it here it might be required for
the purpose still noticed by Bacon, and not for an very J. ARUN.

The Curfew (Vol. ii., p. 103.).-- as a can, i find, ago get a perfect
list of the places where the curfew is likely reversed by the contributions
of welsh correspondents, i will supply my mite by informing him that
the outer armenian time only it was rung at Language Dorsetshire in
BT.

Waistcoat. Newton. Scattered Language; genuine Sturminster (Vol. ii., p. 136.).-- dictionary will
imagine as no JARLTZBERG with naboc part rung. I possess a dictionary in Welsh and english, in
two volumes, by Pugh, published in 1832, which is one of the best.


A minister's widow once told me that she had gone home after hearing a sermon of mine on the
text, "What profit is there in my blood?" and had destroyed a paper of poison she had purchased
in her despair on the previous Saturday night.  It was not a sermon from her unconscious minister,
but it was far better; it was a conversation that Christiana held with her four boys that fairly
and for ever put all thought of the pond out of their mother's remorseful mind.  My carriages
to your father in his distress are a great load on my conscience.  Come, my children, let us
pack up and be gone to the gate, that we may see your father and be with him, according to
the laws of that land."  I like that passage, I think, the best in all Christiana's delightful
history--that passage which begins with these words: "So she called her children together."
For when she called her children together she opened to them both her heart and her conscience;
and from that day there was but one heart and one conscience in all that happy house.  I was
walking alone on a country road the other day, and as I was walking I was thinking about my
pastoral work and about my people and their children, when all at once I met one of my people.
My second sentence to him was: "This very moment I was thinking about your sons. How are they
getting on?"  He quite well understood me.  He knew that I was not indifferent as to how they
were getting on in business, but he knew that I was alluding more to the life of godliness
and virtue in their hearts and in their characters.  "O sir," he said, "you may give your sons
the skin off your back, but they will not give you their confidence!"  So had it been with
Christian and his sons.  He had never managed, even in his religion, to get into the confidence
of his sons; but when their mother took them into her agonised confidence, from that day she
was in all their confidences, good and bad.  You who are in your children's confidences will
pray in secret for my lonely friend with the skin off his back, will you not? that he may soon
be able to call his sons together so as to start together on a new life of family love, and
family trust, and family religion.  That was a fine sight.  Who will make a picture of it?
This widow indeed at the head of her family council- table, and Matthew at the foot, and James
and Joseph and Samuel all in their places.  "Come, my children, let us pack up that we may
see your father!"  Then did her children burst into tears for joy that the heart of their mother
was so inclined.

From that first family council let us pass on to Christiana's last interview with her family
and her other friends.  Her biographer introduces her triumphant translation with this happy
comment on the margin: "How welcome is death to them that have nothing to do but die!" Well,
that was exactly Christiana's case.  She had so packed up at the beginning of her journey;
she had so got and had so kept the confidences of all her sons; she had seen them all so married
in the Lord, and thus so settled in a life of godliness and virtue; she had, in short, lived
the life of a widow indeed, till, when the post came for her, she had nothing left to do but
just to rise up and follow him.  We have read of arrows of death sharpened sometimes with steel
and sometimes with poison; but this arrow, shot from heaven, was sharpened to a point with
love.  Indeed, that arrow, or the very fellow of it, had been shot into Christiana's heart
long ago when she stood at that spot somewhat ascending where was a cross and a sepulchre;
and, especially, ever since the close of Greatheart's great discourse on pardon by deed.  For
the hearing of that famous discourse had made her exclaim: "Oh!  Thou loving One, it makes
my heart bleed to think that Thou shouldest bleed for me! Now it was with all that love working
effectually in her heart that Christiana called for her children to give them her blessing.
And what a comfort it was to her to see them all around her with the mark of the kingdom on
their foreheads, and with their garments white.  "My sons and my daughters," she said, "be
you all ready against the time His post calls for you."  Then she called for Mr. Valiant-for-truth,
and entreated him to have an eye on her children, and to speak comfortably to them if at any
time he saw them faint.  And then she gave Mr. Standfast her ring. "Behold," she said, as Mr.
Honest came in--"Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!"  Then Mr. Ready-to-halt
came in, and then Mr. Despondency and his daughter Much-afraid, and then Mr. Feeble-mind.

But with all this, you must not suppose that this good woman, this mother in Israel, had forgotten
her grandchildren.  She would sooner have forgotten her own children.  But she was too good
a woman to forget either.  Also there is One here who can have compassion and that can gather
these lambs with His arm and carry them in His bosom.  This Man, she said, will house and harbour
and succour the little ones, so that none of them shall be lacking in time to come.  So they
were content to commit their little ones to that Man, and all this was to be at the charge
of the King, and so it was as a hospital to young children and orphans."

And now I shall sum up my chief impressions of Christiana under the three heads of her mind,
her heart, and her widowhood indeed.

1.  The mother of Christian's four sons was a woman of real mind, as so many of the maidens,
and wives, and widows of Puritan England and Covenanting Scotland were.  You gradually gather
that impression just from being beside her as the journey goes on.  She does not speak much;
but, then, there is always something individual, remarkable, and memorable in what she says.
I have a notion of my own that Christiana must have been a reader of that princely Puritan,
John Milton.  And if that was so, that of itself would be certificate enough as to her possession
of mind.  There is always a dignity and a strength about her utterances that make us feel sure
that she had always had a mind far above her neighbours, Mrs. Bat's-eyes, Mrs. Light-mind,
and Mrs. Know- nothing.  The first time she opens her mouth in our hearing she lets fall an
expression that Milton had just made famous in his Samson--

   "Ease to the body some, none to the mind
   From restless thoughts, that like a deadly swarm
   Of hornets armed no sooner found alone,
   But rush upon me thronging, and present
   Times past, what once I was, and what am now."

Nor can I leave this point without asserting it to you that no church and no school of theology
has ever developed the mind as well as sanctified the heart of the common people like the preaching
of the Puritan pulpit. Matthew Arnold was not likely to over-estimate the good that Puritanism
had done to England.  Indeed, in his earlier writings he sometimes went out of his way to lament
the hurt that the Puritan spirit had done to liberality of life and mind in his native land.
But in his riper years we find him saying: "Certainly," he says, "I am not blind to the faults
of the Puritan discipline, but it has been an invaluable discipline for that poor, inattentive,
and immoral creature, man.  And the more I read history and the more I see of mankind, the
more I recognise the value of the Puritan discipline."  And in that same Address he "founded
his best hopes for that so enviable and unbounded country in which he was speaking, America,
on the fact that so many of its millions had passed through the Puritan discipline."  John
Milton was a product of that discipline on the one hand, as John Bunyan was on the other. 
Christiana was another of its products in the sphere of the family, just as Matthew Arnold
himself had some of his best qualities out of the same fruitful school.

