"Agreed!" said De Berquin. "Jacques, give me your dagger. Now, Master Lackey, lead the way.
Follow, you rascals, and be ready to knock down any person to whom I shall direct your attention."

And I turned and led the way to the road, followed closely by De Berquin, who held his sword
in one hand and the dagger in the other. I heard the others fall in line, and tramp their way
through the brush behind him. Barbemouche must have been exceedingly surprised at his leader's
proceedings, for the conversation between De Berquin and myself had been conducted in a tone
too low for their ears.

When we reached the road, De Berquin ordered a halt. He then commanded Barbemouche to walk
at my left side, and Francois to walk at my right, De Berquin retained his place behind me,
and the other two rascals followed him. In this order we proceeded towards the inn.

My object in leading my enemies to the inn was to set them drinking. As long as the possibility
of taking La Tournoire was before De Berquin, there was little likelihood that he would seek
to molest Mlle. de Varion. In the first place, he could not take her from the vicinity while
he himself remained there awaiting the coming of La Tournoire. Secondly, he would not court
any violence during the time of waiting, lest he might thereby risk his chance of taking La
Tournoire. But it was necessary that I should prevent his encountering Blaise or Hugo, for
either one, on seeing me conducted by him as I was, might make some demonstration that would
cause De Berquin to kill me immediately. I must contrive to keep my enemies from entering the
inn, and yet to have them plied with drink. Therefore, I said, as we marched:

"Monsieur, we are approaching a kind of inn where there are to be obtained the food and drink
that I promised. But in the house are some who are devoted to the Sieur de la Tournoire. They
are not any of his soldiers, nor such as are to be feared in a fight. But if they saw you and
your men, with me as a prisoner, they would certainly convey word to La Tournoire or his band,
and so it would be impossible for me to fulfil my agreement. It is true that you would then
kill me, but you would lose La Tournoire, and have his followers soon on your heels. So it
is best that we stop at some distance from the inn. You and I can steal up to a spot where
I can quietly summon the hostess. She will do anything I ask. She will, at my order, secretly
bring food and wine to the place of waiting, and will not betray our presence to those in the inn."

"It seems a good idea," said De Berquin; "but if you attempt to make a fool of me--"

"You will, of course, instantly make a corpse of me, for you will be at my side, and will hear
every word that I speak to the hostess."

"Very well," he replied.

Having at last reached a little clearing by the roadside quite near the inn, but hidden from
it by trees, I gave the word to stop. De Berquin ordered his men to remain here, sheathed his
sword, clutched me by the arm, and walked forward with me, his dagger held ready to be plunged
into my heart at the slightest cause.

I led him to the back of the inn, and we stood near the door of the kitchen, listening.

The gypsy was still playing, and every now and then there came an exclamation of approval from
Biaise. I peered through a corner of the window. The clutch of De Berquin on my arm tightened
as I did so. I saw the gypsy man playing, Biaise and Hugo sitting with wine mugs before them,
aid Godeau by the fire asleep, the gypsy girl with her head on the table, she also asleep,
and Marianne removing platters from the table. Jeannotte had doubtless gone up the ladder to
her mistress.

Presently Marianne came out with some bones of a fowl, to throw them away.

"Marianne," I called, softly. "Not a word! Come here and listen"

With some astonishment she obeyed. De Berquin now held his drawn dagger under his cloak, and
his clutch on my arm, though tight, might yet appear to her that of a friend.

"Marianne," said I, "it is very important that no one within--no one, remember--shall know
that this gentleman is with me. I have a serious matter to talk over with him at the clearing
yonder, where four of his people now wait. No one is to know of their presence any more than
of his. Bring plenty of wine to us there with what food you can get without exciting the curiosity
of those inside. Do you understand? But not a word, even to me now."

She nodded her head, and went back into the kitchen. I knew that I could rely on her. "Come,
monsieur," I whispered to De Berquin, and we went silently back to the clearing.

The four rascals were seated on the ground, conversing in low tones. De Berquin and I sat down
in the midst of the group. The fellows went on talking, regardless of the presence of their
leader, who gave no heed to their babble, except occasionally by a gesture to caution Barbemouche
to lessen his volume of voice.

"I never knew an enterprise to run smoothly which had anything to do with women," Barbemouche
was saying. "Where men only are concerned, one knows exactly what to do, and makes no mistakes."

"You have a prejudice against the sex," put in the foppish fellow.

"Par dieu! I ought not to have!" answered Barbemouche. "I owe them too much for the many favors
I've had from them. But they are mystifying creatures. To mistake a maid for her mistress is
nothing remarkable. For that matter, I've known women of the lower orders who had more airs
than great ladies. I remember once, after having just made an easy conquest of a countess,
and become ennuied with her, I turned my attention to the daughter of a pastry-cook in Paris.
She dug deep holes in my face for merely trying to kiss her. She had velvet lips, that girl,
but what claws!"

The gaunt rascal, whom they called Francois, heaved a pensive sigh, as if this reminiscence
awakened touching memories in him.

"And yet, to show the perversity of the sex," continued Barbemouche, "that same day I saw another
man kiss her, and she gave him back two kisses for his one."

"Perhaps he was a handsome man," said the fat fellow, sagely.

"Yes," replied Barbemouche, ingenuously, "but no handsomer than I."

"At that time you were probably handsomer even than you are now," dryly observed the gaunt man.

"You are right," said Barbemouche, "for I was young, and I did not have this scar," and he
thrust back the rim of his hat and laid his hand on his forehead.

"In what fight with the watch did you get that?" inquired Francois.

"I got it as the Duke of Guise got his, fighting the enemies of the church, though not in the
same battle. I received mine that St. Bartholomew's night when we made the streets of Paris
flow with heretic blood. A cursed Huguenot gave it me, but I gave him another to match mine,
and left him for the crowd to trample over."

I gave a start, recalling the incident of which I had so recently heard the account, and which
seemed the counterpart of this.

At this moment, Marianne appeared at the bend of the road. She carried a huge wooden platter,
on which were a bowl of mulled wine, some mugs, and some cheese, bread, and scraps of cold
meat. I afterward learned that she had begun to prepare this wine some time before, thinking
that I and Blaise and the boys would want it after my return from my search for Pierre. Knowing
Blaise's capacity, she had made ready so great a quantity.

Saying not a word, she set down the platter on the ground before me.

"That is well," I said. "Now go back to the inn and step often to the door, so that I can easily
summon you again without attracting the attention of the others. And get more wine ready."

The woman nodded, and went back to the inn.

The four ruffians made an immediate onslaught on the platter. De Berquin and Francois ignored
the food, that they might the sooner dip their mugs into the bowl of wine. The other three
speedily disposed of all the eatables, and then joined in the drinking. De Berquin, in order
to grasp his mug, had let my arm go, but he retained his dagger in his other hand, and each
of his followers used but one hand in eating or drinking, holding a weapon in the other.

"Look you, rascals!" said De Berquin to his men, presently. "Be careful to keep your wits about
you!"

"Rascals!" repeated the tall fellow, his pride awakened by his second mug of wine. "By the
bones of my ancestors, it goes against me to be so often called rascal!"

Barbemouche saw an opportunity to retaliate for the fun that had been made of his pretensions
to beauty. "They whom the term fits," he growled, "ought not to complain, if I endure it, who
am a gentleman!"

Instantly the bearded giant was on his feet, with his huge sword poised in the air.

"Rascal yourself twice over, and no gentleman!" he cried, quivering with noble wrath.

"What, you lank scarecrow!" said Barbemouche, rising in his turn, and rushing to meet the other.

Their fat comrade now rose and thrust his sword between the two, for the purpose of striking
up their weapons. The fop ran behind a tree, to be safe from the fracas.

At the instant when Francois was about to bring his great sword down on Barbemouche, and the
latter was about to puncture him somewhere near the ribs, there came the sound of the Angelus,
borne on the breeze from Clochonne. The two antagonists stood as if transformed into statues,
their weapons in their respective positions of offence. Each in his way moved his lips in his
accustomed prayer until the sound of the distant bell ceased.

"Now, then, for your dirty blood!" roared Barbemouche, instantly resuming animation.

But his fat comrade knocked aside Barbemouche's sword, and at the same time pushed Francois
out of striking distance.

"Gentlemen, gentlemen," cried the fat rascal, reproachfully, "would you spoil this affair and
rob me of my share of the pay? God knows we are all gentlemen, and rascals, too!"

"Very well," said Barbemouche, relieved by his brief explosion of wrath, "this matter can wait."

"I can wait as well as another man," said Francois, with dignity, whereupon both men resumed
their seats on the turf and their attentions to the wine. The prudent Jacques returned to the
circle, and De Berquin, who during the squabble had employed himself entirely in holding me
from any attempt at escape, looked relieved.

The effect of the wine on him was to make him merry, so that he soon invited me to join in
the drinking, and I made a pretense of doing so. When the bowl was empty, he went with me again
to summon Marianne, which we easily did, as she was standing at the door awaiting my reappearance.
She brought us another pot of wine, and left us as she had before done. De Berquin became more
and more gaily disposed. He put no limit to the quantity imbibed by his men; yet he kept his
eyes on me, and his dagger dangerously near my breast.

When we heard the clock in Clochonne strike seven, he said to his men:

"Straighten up, you dogs! In another hour we shall have work to do." Turning to me, he added,
with a grin, "Either to chain that wild beast, La Tournoire, or to send the most entertaining
of valets to find out whether all that they say of purgatory and hell is true."

But he soon became so lax under the influence of the wine that he did not heed when the fat
man and the ragged dandy dropped off to sleep and mingled their snores with the murmurs of
the forest insects. He began to narrate his adventures, amatory, military, bibulous, and other.
Presently, for a jest, he drank the health of Henri of Navarre in return for my drinking that
of the Pope.

By this time Barbemouche and gaunt Francois had added their breathings to the somnolent choir.

"You are a mighty drinker, monsieur," I said to De Berquin, admiringly, at the same time refilling
my own mug.

"Ask of the cabaret keepers of Paris whether the Vicomte de Berquin can hold his share of the
good red vine-juice!" he replied, jubilantly, dipping his mug again into the pot.

I took a gulp from my mug and pretended to choke. In one of my convulsive movements, I threw
the contents of my mug into the eyes of De Berquin. I followed it an instant later with the
mug itself, and he fell back on the grass, half-stunned. In the moment when his grasp of my
arm was relaxed, I slipped away from him, narrowly missing the wild dagger stroke that he made
at me. A second later and I was on my feet. My first act was to possess the weapons of Barbemouche
and Francois, these two being nearest me. I then ran towards the inn, calling at the top of
my voice, "Blaise! To arms!"

Behind me I heard De Berquin, who had risen, kicking the prostrate bodies of his men and crying:

"Up, you drunken dogs! We have been fooled! After him!"

Then I heard him running after me on the road, swearing terribly.

From the place where he had left his men, I could hear them confusedly swearing and questioning
one another, all having been rudely awakened from sleep, two of them being unable to find their
weapons, and none knowing rightly what had occurred or exactly where their leader had gone.

Blaise came running out of the inn, with sword drawn. When he had joined me, I stopped and
turned to face De Berquin. He was before me ere I had time to explain to Blaise. In his rage,
he made a violent thrust at me, which Blaise turned aside. De Berquin then leaped back, to
put himself on guard.

At that instant, the first stroke of eight came from the distant tower of Clochonne.

"Filthy cur, you have lied to me!" cried De Berquin.

"Nay, monsieur," I answered, throwing from me the weapons of Barbemouche and Francois, "I keep
my word. I promised you La Tournoire unarmed. Behold him!"

And I stepped out from beside Blaise and stood with open arms.

"La Tournoire!" repeated De Berquin, taking a backward step and staring at me with open mouth.

"La Tournoire!" came in a faint, horror-stricken voice from behind me.

I turned and beheld mademoiselle, who had come out from the inn on hearing my call for Blaise.
With her were Hugo and Jeannotte. Behind were the inn-keepers and the gypsies. On mademoiselle's
face, which was lighted by a torch that Hugo carried, was a death-like pallor, and such a look
of horror, grief, and self-reproach, as I have never seen on any other human countenance.

"Mademoiselle!" I cried, hastening to her side. "What is the matter?"

"'Tis but--surprise,--M. de la Tournoire!" she answered, weakly, raising her hand feebly as
if to keep me from approaching her, while her eyes, which were fixed on mine as by a terrible
fascination, seemed to be starting from her head. An instant later, she fell in a swoon, and
I was just in time to save her from striking the ground and to pillow her head on my arm.

As for De Berquin, he had made a rush at me, but Blaise had repulsed him with such fury that,
seeing no hope of being joined by his men, he soon turned and fled.

I bore the senseless body of mademoiselle into the inn, vainly asking myself why she had shown
so profound a distress at my disclosure.

CHAPTER XII.

AT THE CHATEAU OF MAURY

Presently mademoiselle recovered from her faintness and went up to her chamber, supported by
Jeannotte. Her eyes met mine as she was about to go, but she immediately dropped them, and
seemed by an effort to repress some kind of emotion.

With a heart saddened by the sight of mademoiselle's distress, I then made arrangements for
the night. I was to lie at the front door of the inn, Blaise at the rear door, Hugo and the
gypsies in the horse sheds, Marianne in the chamber with mademoiselle and Jeannotte, old Godeau
where he chose. It happened that he chose a place before the smouldering fire in the kitchen.

Any further attempt to find Pierre that night was out of the question. I dared not leave the
inn again, lest I should expose mademoiselle to possible molestation, or myself to an encounter
with those from whom I had just escaped. Had mademoiselle's safety not depended on that of
myself and Blaise, I might have invited such an encounter for myself or for him or for both,
but I would not have her undergo the slightest risk of losing her protectors.

I had little apprehension of seeing De Berquin or his men again that night. Not that he would
probably remember his promise to give me my life and liberty in return for my bringing La Tournoire
before him. Even that promise, if still respected by him, did not affect him in regard to mademoiselle.
But he would consider that, though I was not accompanied by any of my own men except Blaise,
mademoiselle's boy, Hugo, would wield a stout arm on our side. Unless he knew something of
Pierre's disappearance, he would count that active youth also with our forces. He had doubtless
taken in at a glance the group composed of Godeau, the gypsies, and Marianne; and he would
suppose that I could reckon on assistance of one kind or another from some or all of these.
Thus, having no odds in his favor, and knowing that we would be on the alert, he would be little
likely to make any kind of demonstration against us. Moreover, two of his men finding themselves
without their weapons, and all of them angry at the manner of their awakening, they would probably
receive very badly the curses that he would heap on them for their failure to come up to his
support. Their attitude would, for the rest of that night, be one of mutiny. It was likely
that he would retreat and meditate a new plan. He would not feel safe in the immediate vicinity
of the inn, for it would occur to him that I might send one of my allies to my men with orders
to take him. So he would withdraw and either give up the enterprise entirely or form a new design.

Now that he knew that I was La Tournoire, what would he do? Abandon his mission, since my knowledge
of him would put me on my guard against him, and forbid his winning my confidence and betraying
me in the way which, I supposed, Montignac had dictated to him? It was not likely that such
a man, having found only one road by which he might regain the good things he had lost, would
be turned aside from that road. He would follow it to success or death. Such men are too indolent
to go about seeking opportunities. Having found one, they will pursue it wherever it may lead.
Their fortunes are so desperate that they have only their lives to lose, and they are so brave
that they do not fear death. If they can gain the stakes, so much the better. If not, little
the worse. Meanwhile, they are occupied in a way congenial to a man who loves adventure, who
has inherited the taste for danger, and finds a pleasurable excitement in risking his life.
Therefore I felt that De Berquin was not yet through with me, but he would have to change his
plan, and, until he should have time to compose new measures, he would not trouble us.

As I lay in the silence, my thoughts turned from De Berquin to Mlle. de Varion. Her demonstration
on learning that I was La Tournoire was in harmony with the manner in which she had previously
questioned me concerning my friendship for the bearer of that name. Grieved at the thought
that I was his friend, relieved at my assertion that I did not so highly esteem him, she had
shown the utmost horror on learning that I was the man himself. Could this be due entirely
to the impression conveyed by a name to which the Catholics in Berry had attached so much dread?
It was natural that one should regard with some terror a man whose deeds had been so exaggerated
by vulgar report; but this fact did not explain the intensity of mademoiselle's emotion at
the moment of my disclosure. Yet she had attributed that emotion entirely to surprise. Perhaps
the extraordinary manifestation of that surprise was due to her fatigued and dejected condition.
Or it might be, and I felt a delicious thrill at the thought, that it was her concern for me,
her fear that my life might be the more imperilled by my relations with this proscribed man,
that had caused the distress accompanying her first inquiries. If this was true, the discovery
that I was no other than the man proscribed, and all the more in danger, would naturally have
profoundly affected her.

In the morning she came down from her loft, pale and showing a calmness that seemed forced.
To my greeting and my announcement that Pierre had not returned, she replied, quietly:

"He is a faithful and honest boy, and I have prayed that no harm might befall him. His disappearance
must not be allowed to alter your plans, M. de la Tournoire."

"I shall leave orders with Marianne and Godeau to conduct him to Maury, should he return to
this place, as he very probably will. If you do not wish otherwise, we shall ride on to Maury
this morning."

"I do not wish otherwise," she replied. After a moment's pause, she added, "Alas, monsieur,
your friend, M. de Launay, when be promised me your guidance across the border, engaged you
to a more tedious task than you might have wished to undertake. I fear that I must ask for
a delay at Maury. You see what trouble your friend has brought you into,--waiting until a poor
woman, who has been overcome by fatigue, recovers her energies."

"Ah, mademoiselle," I said, with delight, "you will then hold me to the promise made for me
by my friend?"

"What else can a helpless woman do?" she asked, with a pretty smile, although there was a tremor
in the voice.

I was overjoyed to be assured that she had accepted the situation. I had promised that, on
her becoming acquainted with La Tournoire, she should have no other protector. This had meant
to her, at the time when it was spoken, that I should go from her. To me it had meant, of course,
that I should continue with her. I had feared that, on learning the truth, she would banish
me. She had said that we must part. But now, despite the fact that the same barrier existed
between me and her, whether I was La Tournoire or De Launay, despite her horror on learning
that I was the former, she had abandoned her intention of parting from me. What had caused
this change of mind? Had she, now that I was known to her as La Tournoire, ceased to entertain
for me those feelings which she had, on account of our difference in religion, sought by an
immediate separation to destroy? This was unlikely. La Tournoire or De Launay, I was the same
man. I chose a happier explanation,--none other than that, considering by night, she had come
to the conclusion that a religious difference was not too great a barrier to be removed, and
that La Tournoire was not a person to be regarded with any horror. Though modesty might plead
against her continuing in the company of a man with whom she exchanged such feelings as had
so rapidly grown up between us, yet circumstance, most imperative of all dictators, showed
her no other course than to remain under my guidance and protection. So I accounted for the
decision which was to keep us together for a few more days.

I was not sorry that she had asked for a delay at Maury. It relieved me of the necessity of
making a pretext for retarding her flight while I should attempt the rescue of her father.
The reason to be given for the absence of myself and a party of my men need not be a strong
one when there was no apparent haste to continue the flight. I was still determined to keep
the attempt in her father's behalf a secret from her if it should fail, and as a surprise for
her if successful.

Inwardly jubilant with the hope inspired by her change of mind, I hastened to give the innocent
reasons for the concealment of my identity from her. She listened with a changeless smile,
keeping her eyes on mine. Before she could answer, Marianne announced that breakfast was ready.
No further allusion was made to the matter, nor to her now abandoned determination that we
should part.

After breakfast, our party of five mounted our horses, and, led by Blaise, forced our way through
the high bushes that marked the beginning of the hardly perceptible road to Maury. The two
gypsies followed afoot, for, knowing that I could rely on their fidelity and secrecy, I had
bade them come, that their music and tricks might amuse mademoiselle during her stay at Maury.

It was a beautiful morning, and I considered that I had many reasons for joy. Mademoiselle,
too, seemed affected by the sweetness and jocundity of the early day. She had evidently nerved
herself, too, against her griefs. She seemed to have summoned a large stock of resolution to
the task of facing her troubles without a tear. It appeared that she had banished dejection
by an effort of the will. All the time it was evident that her manner was the result of a vigilant
determination. I was, nevertheless, glad to see a smile, a steadiness of look, a set lip, though
they were attained with premeditation. There was in her conversation, as we rode on our slow
and difficult way, something of the woman of the world. As we had to go in single file, and
so to speak loudly in order to be heard by one another, our talk could not take on the themes
and tones of tenderness that I would have gladly given to it.

Presently from a bush at the side of the path a man sprang up, saluted, and stood respectfully
while we passed him. It was one of my men, Maugert, on duty as sentry, for I kept men watching
every approach to our hiding-place night and day. They lay secreted among the brushwood, and
would observe an intruder long before the intruder could be aware of their presence. A few
minutes later we passed another of these faithful sentinels, who rose out of his concealment
to give me a look of welcome, and soon afterward we rode through the ruined gate into the old
courtyard itself.

"Welcome to Maury!" said I to mademoiselle.

She looked up at the broken facade of the chateau, around at the trees that environed the walls
and in some places pushed their branches through openings, then at some of my men, who had
been mending their clothes or tinkering at their weapons.

"I shall feel safe at Maury, monsieur," she said, quietly.

Thus Mlle. de Varion became my guest in that wilderness fastness. I gave her the two chambers
in best preservation, one of them being immediately over the chief entrance and overlooking
the courtyard. My own abode was in the northern turret, looking down the steep wooded declivity
that fell to the road from Clochonne to Narjec. Hugo was to sleep outside her door. My own
men made their beds in the great hall and in certain sheltered portions of the wings and outbuildings.
They usually ate in this hall, receiving their food on platters from the cook (happily the
kitchen had remained fit for use), and bearing it thither. It was arranged that Hugo should
carry the meals of mademoiselle and Jeannotte to mademoiselle's apartments.

It was more after our arrival than during our ride to Maury that mademoiselle showed the fatigue
of which she had spoken. It was evident that she had reached a resting-place none too soon.
Weakness was manifest in all her movements as well as in the pallor of her cheeks. Yet, though
she languished thus, she did not keep all the time to her chamber. Each morning she came down
to walk about the courtyard, saying that the air and sunshine--as much as found its way through
the overspreading branches of the trees--strengthened her. There was in one corner of the yard
an old stone bench, which, in good weather, was for a great part of the afternoon half in sun
and half in shade. Here she would sit by the hour, changing her position as sunlight or shade
became preferable for the moment.

Morning or afternoon, I was never far from her. For I had had to defer from day to day the
first steps towards the projected deliverance of M. de Varion. On our arrival I had found that
some of the men on whose aid I would most depend were away on a foraging expedition. Each hour
I looked for their return, but in vain. Their absence had now become so prolonged as to be
a cause of alarm. My anxiety about them, and my concern over other matters, took up so much
of my mind that little was left in which to devise a plan for the rescue of the prisoner, and
I would not make the first move until the whole design should be complete.

As days passed, and mademoiselle's missing boy, Pierre, did not come, I ceased to hope that
we should ever see him again. Had he found his way to the inn where he had left us, Marianne
or Godeau would have brought him to Maury immediately. It was useless to speculate as to what
might have become of him. He might have perished in the forest, or found his way to Clochonne,
or fallen in with De Berquin and suffered for having been of our party. When his disappearance
was mentioned, Jeannotte would look at mademoiselle, and mademoiselle would say:

"Poor boy! I pray that no evil may have befallen him. He was fidelity itself. He would die for me!"

But she did not give herself up to poignant sorrow on his account, or, indeed, since the night
at Godeau's inn, on account of anything. She seemed to have set herself to bear her troubles
in Spartan manner, and to find in herself, perhaps with surprise, the strength to do so.

So the days passed, and still my plans in regard to her father remained unformed, the men on
whom I relied did not appear, and mademoiselle did not speak of resuming her flight southward.
There came no further sign of the existence of De Berquin. From or of the outside world we
heard nothing, save occasionally, when the wind was in the right direction, the faint sound
of the bell of Clochonne. We seemed to dwell apart, in a region of our own, an enchanted forest
which none other might enter, a place where we were forever safe from the strife of humanity,
the touch of war, the reach of the King's edicts, the power of provincial governors, the vengeance
of the great. The gypsies remained with us, and sweetened the time with their songs and the
music of their instruments. My men treated mademoiselle with the utmost respect. I had caused
them to know that she was a refugee, a lady most precious in my esteem, one for whose safety
and happiness any other consideration must, should occasion arise, be sacrificed. The weather
was dry, sunny, and, for the time of year, mild. It was like a sweet dream, and I, for one,
had no premonition of the awakening that was to come.

Often during that time I spoke of my love for her. I told her that, to me, at least, religion
was not so much as to drive me from the woman whom I had so long sought in vain among the beauties
of our Henri's court, whom I had so long worshipped in the ideal, whom I had instantly recognized
as being the embodiment of that ideal, of whose presence I could not endure to be deprived
even in thought.

She would sit looking in my eyes while I told her these things. Sometimes she would seem to
yield to a kind of bliss in hearing them, to forget all else than ourselves and my words. Then
suddenly a look of anguish would come on her features, she would rise and press her hands to
her eyes, as if to blot out the memory of my look, and say:

"Monsieur, you must not! You must not! You do not know! Oh, if you knew!"

And she would quickly glide away into the chateau, keeping her face turned from me until she
had disappeared.

I began to think that there might be another obstacle than that of our difference in religion.
Perhaps a promise to another or some vow! But I swore to myself that, whatever the obstacle
might be, I would remove it. The only matter for present disposition was to get her consent
to my doing so.

She would soon return, composed and smiling, with no sign of wishing to elude me. For the life
of me, I could not long refrain from the subject that had before so strangely put her to flight.

Sometimes when I talked in the strain of love, joy and pain would succeed each other on her
face, sometimes they would seem to be present at the same moment. From the look of complete
abandonment to happiness that sometimes, though never for long, shone on her features, I felt
that she loved me, and that eventually her love would gain the victory. I continually tried
to elicit an expression of her feelings in words. Sweet to me as was the frequent confession
of her looks, I sought a confession in speech also.

One afternoon, as we stood on a little spur that rose from the declivity below the chateau,
and whence through a small opening between trees could be seen the river, the smiling plain,
and afar the high-perched chateau of Clochonne, I asked her:

"Why is it that when I speak of what most occupies my heart you become silent or sorrowful,
or go suddenly from me?"

With assumed lightness she replied:

"Can a woman explain her capricious doings any more than a man can understand them? It is well
known that we do unaccountable things."

Not heeding this evasion, I went on:

"I sometimes fear that you imagine some other barrier between us than the one of religion.
Is it that some other gentleman--?"

"Oh, no, monsieur!" she answered, quickly and earnestly, before I had time to finish the question.

"Is there, then, some vow or girlish resolution?"

She shook her head negatively in reply, but would not give me any more satisfaction.

At last I said, abruptly, "Do you, then, wish me not to love you?"

She looked at me first as if she would answer yes, and then as if she would answer no, and
finally, after a sigh, she said:

"Can we cause things by wishing?"

Finally, as a last means of trying her, I said:

"Mademoiselle, I have been thinking that it might be better if I were to go on alone to Guienne,
and leave Blaise and my men to conduct you when you are able to follow."

She regarded me strangely, first as if the suggestion were a welcome one, then,--while her
brow darkened, and a kind of mental anguish forced itself into her expression,--as if the plan
were not at all acceptable.

"But you will not do that, monsieur?" was all that she said.

I could but sigh in puzzlement, and abandon my attempt to make her tell her feelings.

Sometimes I would suddenly turn my eyes towards her, and catch her looking at me with mingled
tenderness and pity, as a man condemned to die might be looked on by the woman who loved him.
At those times I thought that she had some fear or foreboding that I might yet fall a victim
to the vengeance of those whom I had offended. Sometimes her look quite startled me, for it
contained, besides a world of grief and pity, something of self-reproach. I then supposed that
she blamed herself for allowing her fatigue to delay me in my departure from the province.

But these demonstrations did not often escape her. She oftenest showed the forced cheerfulness
that I have already mentioned. The moments when any kind of distress showed itself were exceptional,
and many of them were caused by the persistence with which I sought a response in words to
my declarations of love.

There came at last the afternoon--how well I remember it!--when we sat together on the stone
bench in the sunlit part of the old courtyard. Through the interstices of the overspreading
branches we could see a perfectly clear blue sky. The slightest movement of air made the leaves
rustle sleepily, dreamily. Save the chirping of the birds, no other sound emanated from the
forest. The murmur of the river at the foot of the wooded steep came up to us. In a corner
of the yard the two gypsies lay asleep. Some of my men were off on various employments. A few
had gone for game; others to fish. One of them, Frojac, was in Clochonne disguised as a peasant,
to keep a watch on the garrison there. The party of foragers had not returned. Of the men at
the chateau, those who were not on guard were with Blaise Tripault in the great hall, where
they had just finished eating and drinking, Hugo had gone to the stables to feed mademoiselle's
horses. Jeannotte was asleep in her chamber. Mademoiselle and I sat in silence, in the midst
of a solitude, a remote tranquillity, a dreamy repose that it was difficult to imagine as ever
to be broken.

She seemed to yield to the benign influence of this enchanted place. She leaned back restfully,
closed her eyes, and smiled.

Suddenly there came from within the chateau the sound of my men singing. Their rude, strong
voices were low at first, but they rose in pitch and volume as their song progressed. Mademoiselle
ceased to smile, opened her eyes, again took on the look of dark foreboding. The song had an
ominous ring. It was one of the Huguenot war hymns sung in the army of our Henri:

  "With pricking of steel
    Our foe we have sped,
  We've peppered his heel
    With pellets of lead,
And the battles we win are the gifts of the Lord,
Who pointeth our cannon and guideth our sword.
We fire and we charge and there's nothing can bar
When we fight in the track of the King of Navarre.
  Then down, down, down with the Duke of Guise!
  Death, death, death to our enemies!
  And glory, we sing, to God and our King,
  And death to the foes of Navarre!"

The melody was grim and stirring. The men's voices vibrated with war-like wrath. They were
impatient for battles, charges, the kind of fighting that is done between great armies on the
open field, when there is the roar and smoke of cannon, the rattle of small firearms, the clash
of steel, the cries of captains, the shrieks and groans of wounded, the plenteous spilling
of blood. They were hungry for carnage.

"There is no cause to shudder, mademoiselle," said I, perceiving the effect that the song had
on her; "we are far away from fighting. There is no danger here."

"There may be dangers of which you do not guess," she answered.

As if to verify her words, a sudden, sharp cry broke the stillness. It came from the forest
path by which we had arrived at the chateau. It was the voice of one of my sentinels challenging
a newcomer.

"It is I," came the reply. "I have important news for the captain."

"Oh, it is you, Marianne?" replied the man on guard. "I didn't know you for an instant, you
appeared so suddenly, without any noise."

I hastened to the gate and called, "Come, Marianne, what is it?"

She came up puffing and perspiring. So breathless was she that she had to sit down on a bench
in the courtyard before she could answer me.

"Oh, monsieur!" she said, when she had recovered some breath. "Look to yourself! The governor
of the province is at Clochonne!"

"The devil!" I said, and turned to see the effect of this news on mademoiselle.

She was standing, trembling, as white as death, her one hand on the back of the bench for support.

"Be not alarmed, mademoiselle," I said, "Clochonne is not Maury! They do not know our hiding-place.
How did you learn, Marianne, and what else do you know?"

Mademoiselle stood perfectly still and fixed her eyes on Marianne, awaiting the latter's answers
with apparently as much interest as I myself felt.

"Godeau went to Clochonne this morning with some eggs to sell, and learned that the governor
arrived last night and occupies the chateau," said Marianne.

"With how many men?" I asked.

"Godeau said that the courtyard of the chateau and the market-place of the town were full of
men-at-arms, but he did not wait to find out how many there were. He knew what he would catch
from me if he did not immediately bring me the news, that I might let you know. So he came
home at once, and as soon as I had heard it I started for this place."

"I thank you, Marianne. You are the best of women. Yet it may not be on our account that M.
de la Chatre honors Clochonne with a visit."

It was, indeed, true that the governor would naturally visit his border towns at a time when
war might be expected soon to enter his province. Yet I could not help thinking that his coming
at this particular time had something to do with his plan to capture me. I remembered what
course Montignac had advised him to take: to wait until his spy should have located me and
sent him word of my hiding-place, then to come to Clochonne, whither the spy, on learning of
his presence, should send him the information that would enable him to lay an ambuscade for
me. This was a good plan, for a premature arrival of the governor at Clochonne might give me
time to flee before my whereabouts should be known to the spy; but, knowing my exact whereabouts,
La Chatre could first take measures for cutting off my flight, and then risk nothing by coming
to Clochonne. Moreover, should the spy fail as to the ambush, the governor's acquaintance with
my whereabouts would serve him in a chase that he might make with his soldiers. The ambush
was but a device more likely to succeed than an open search and attack. It was, if at all possible,
easier, and would cost the governor no lives.

Now, if the plan suggested by Montignac was being carried out, the governor's arrival at Clochonne
meant that his spy had sent him word of my hiding-place. But could De Berquin have done so?
He had previously shown some skill in secret pursuit. Had he eluded the vigilance of my sentinels,
learned that we were at Maury, and sent one of his men to the governor with the information?
It was improbable, yet nothing occurs more often than the improbable. So I asked Marianne:

"Have you seen anything of the five men who drank with me the night you carried wine to us
from the inn?"

"Not since that night, monsieur."

"And you have no more news than you have told me?"

"Nothing more, monsieur; so, if you please, I will hurry back, for my old man is sure to have
fallen asleep, and it would be a pity if the governor's men should come by the forest road
without being seen. Be sure, if they come after I reach home, you shall know of it in good time."

I bade her go, and turned to mademoiselle.

She was as pale as a white lily. As soon as my eye met hers, she said, in a faint voice:

"I am going in, monsieur. I am tired. No, I can go alone. Do not be concerned about me. I shall
soon feel better."

And she went rapidly into the chateau, giving me no time in which to assure her that there
was no reason for immediate alarm.

I wished to consider Marianne's news before communicating it to any of my men. I had to inquire
of myself whether it called for any immediate action on my part. So that my meditations might
not be interrupted, I left the chateau and walked into the forest.

For hours I considered the possible relations of the governor's arrival to mademoiselle's safety
and my own, to that of my men and our cause, and to my intention of delivering M. de Varion
from prison. But I could arrive at no conclusion, for I knew neither the governor's intentions,
nor what information he had concerning me. There were so many probabilities and so many possible
combinations of them, that at last I threw the whole matter from my mind, determining to await
events. On the way back to the chateau I reproached myself for having wasted so much time in
making useless guesses, for when I found myself at the gate it was night, and the moon had risen.

I stopped at the entrance and stood still to listen to the voice of Blaise, which rose in the
courtyard in the words of a psalm. He sang it with a gentleness the very reverse of the feeling
his voice had expressed in the war hymn a few hours earlier. From a sound that came between
the words now and then, I knew that he was engaged in one of his favorite occupations, that
of polishing his weapons.

Pleased to hear him singing in the moonlight, I stood at the gate, lest by entering I might
interrupt the psalm.

Presently, at the end of the stanza, I heard another voice from the doorway of the chateau.

"Ah, Blaise," said Jeannotte, "it is the spirit of your mother that controls you now."

He made no answer, nor did he resume his singing. Then I recalled that for the past few days
he had not shown his former susceptibility to the maid's charms; he had, indeed, exhibited
towards her a kind of disapproving shyness. I had not attached any importance to this.

"Why do you not go on singing your psalm?" Jeannotte asked, coming nearer to him.

His answer was a strange one. It was spoken with a kind of contemptuous irony and searching
interrogation. The words were:

"Mademoiselle's boy Pierre has not yet come back to us."

"What has that to do with your singing?" said Jeannotte. "We all know it very well. Poor Pierre!
To think that he may have been taken by Monsieur de Berquin!"

"It is well that he did not know the place of our destination when he went away," said Blaise,
in the same insignificant tone, "else M. de Berquin might torture the secret out of him, and
carry it to the governor of the province, for M. de Berquin knows now that my master is La
Tournoire. It would not be well for the boy, or any one else, to be the means of the governor's
learning La Tournoire's hiding-place!"

After which words, spoken with a kind of ominous menace, Blaise abruptly left the girl, and
strode around the corner of the chateau. The maid stood still a few moments, then went into
the chateau.

Completely mystified, I crossed the courtyard and called Blaise.

"M. de la Chatre is at Clochonne," I said, abruptly, as soon as he was before me.

He stood still, returning my gaze. Presently he said:

"Do you think that he has learned where you are?"

"Through M. de Berquin?" I said, as if completing his question.

"Or any one else?" he said, in a low voice. "There was the boy who disappeared, for instance."

"But he did not know our hiding-place when he left. He did not know how near we then were to
it. He did not then know that I was La Tournoire."

"But there was much talk of La Tournoire on the journey. Did you at any time drop any hint
of this place, and how it might be reached?"

"None that could have reached his ears. I told only Mlle. de Varion, and we were quite alone
when I did so."

Blaise looked at the ground in silence. After some time he gave a heavy sigh, and, raising
his eyes, said:

"Monsieur, I have been thinking of many things of late. Certain matters have had a strange
appearance. But,--well, perhaps my thoughts have been absurd, and, in short, I have nothing
to say about them except this, monsieur, it is well to be on one's guard always against every one!"

I was about to ask him whether he meant that the boy Pierre had been guilty of eavesdropping
and treachery, and to reprove him for that unworthy suspicion, when there was a noise at the
gate. Looking thither, I saw two of my men, Sabray and Roquelin, conducting into the courtyard
three starved-looking persons, who leaned wearily on one another's shoulders, and seemed ready
to drop with fatigue.

"We found these wretches in the woods," explained Sabray. "They are Catholics, although that
one tried to hide his cross and shouted, 'Down with the mass!' when we told them to surrender
in the name of the Sieur de la Tournoire."

"It is true that I was a Catholic," whined the bedraggled fop who had belonged to De Berquin's
band of four; "but I was just about to abjure when these men came up."

"I will abjure twice over, if it pleases monsieur," put in the tall Spanish-looking ruffian.
"Nothing would delight me more than to be a Huguenot. By the windpipe of the Pope, for a flagon
of wine I would be a Jew!"

"And I a damned infidel Turk," wearily added their fat comrade, "for a roast fowl, and a place
to lay my miserable body!"

At this moment the fop's eyes fell on Blaise.

"Saint Marie!" he cried, falling to his knees. "We are dead men. It is the big fellow we trussed
up at the inn!"

"Belly of Beelzebub, so it is!" bellowed Blaise, pulling out his sword. Turning to Jeannotte,
who had just reappeared in the courtyard, he roared: "It is now my father's spirit that controls
me!"

Whereupon he fell to belaboring the three poor, weary, hungry, thirsty rascals with the flat
of his sword, till all of them yelled in concert. They were too limp to resist or even to run,
and he had his way with them until Sabray and Roquelin howled with laughter. At last I ordered
him to stop, and to confine the men in a chamber, where they should be fed and questioned.
So they limped away moaning, driven like cattle by Blaise, who promised them as they went that
they should not be put to the trouble of tying up honest people in the dark for some time to
come. Jeannotte followed, out of curiosity, as did Sabray and Roquelin.

Left alone in the courtyard, I sat on the stone bench, which was now in part yellow with moonlight,
and began to ponder. I could doubtless learn from the three captives whether De Berquin had
had any hand in the coming of La Chatre to Clochonne. Anxious as I was to inform myself, I
was yet in no mood to question the men at that moment, preferring to wait and hear the result
of Blaise's interrogations.

While I was thinking, my arms folded and my eyes turned to the ground at my feet, I suddenly
heard a deep sigh very near me.

I looked up and saw Mademoiselle de Varion standing before me in the moonlight. My gaze met
hers, and in the delicious glow that her presence sent through me I forgot all in the world
but her.

CHAPTER XIII.

HOW DE BERQUIN INVITED DEATH

"Mademoiselle!" I whispered, starting up and taking her hand.

She trembled slightly, and averted her look. But she did not draw away her hand.

"You are still disturbed by Marianne's news," I said. "But you have little more reason to fear
when M. de la Chatre is at Clochonne than if he were at the other end of the province."

"Yet I do fear, monsieur," she said, in a low tone, "for your sake."

"Then if you will fear," said I, "I take great happiness in knowing that it is for me. But
this is no place or time for fear. Look and listen. The moonlight, the sounds of the forest,
the song of the nightingale, all speak of peace."

"The song of the nightingale may give place to the clash of swords and the cries of combat,"
she replied. "And because you have delayed here with me, you now risk the peril you are in."

"Peril is familiar company to me, mademoiselle," I said, gaily. "It comes and it goes. It is
a very welcome guest when it brings with it the sweetest lady in the world."

Talking thus, I led her around the side of the chateau to the old garden appertaining to it,
a place now wild with all kinds of forest growth, its former use indicated by a broken statue,
a crumbling grotto, and in its centre an old sun-dial overgrown with creepers. The path to
the sun-dial was again passable, thanks to my frequent visits to the spot since my first arrival
at Maury. It was up this path that we now went.

The moonlight and the presence of mademoiselle made the place a very paradise to me. We two
were alone in the garden. The moon spread beauty over the broken walls of the chateau on one
side, and the green vegetation around us leaving some places in mysterious shade. The sun-dial
was all in light, and so was mademoiselle standing beside it. I breathed sweet wild odors from
the garden. From some part of the chateau came the soft twang of the strings responding to
the fingers of the gypsy, I held the soft hand of mademoiselle. I raised it to my lips.

"I love you, I love you!" I whispered.

She made no answer, only looked at me with a kind of mingled grief and joy, bliss embittered
by despair.

"It cannot be," I went on, "that Heaven would permit so great a love to find no response. Will
you not answer me, mademoiselle?"

"What answer would you have?" she asked, in a perturbed voice.

"I would have love for love."

Her answer was arrested by the sound of the gypsy's voice, which at that instant rose in an
old song, that one in which a woman's love is likened to a light or a fire. These are the first
words:

"Bright as the sun, more quick to fade;
  Fickle as marsh-lights prove;
Where brightest, casting deepest shade--
  False flame of woman's love."

"Heed the song, monsieur," said mademoiselle, in the tone of one who warns vaguely of a danger
which dare not be disclosed openly.

"It is an old, old song," I answered. "The raving of some misanthrope of bygone time."

"It has truth in it," she said.

"Nay, he judged all women from some bitter experience of his own. His song ought to have died
with him, ought to be shut up in the grave wherein he lies, with his sins and his sorrows."

"Though the man is dead, the truth he sang is not. Heed it, monsieur, as a warning from the
dead to the living, a warning to all brave men who unwarily trust in women!"

"I needed no song to warn me, mademoiselle," I said, thinking of Mile. d'Arency and M. de Noyard.
"I have in my own time seen something of the treachery of which some women are capable."

"You have loved other women?" she said, quickly.

"Once I thought I loved one, until I learned what she was."

"What was she?" she asked, slowly, as if divining the answer, and dreading to hear it.

"She was a tool of Catherine de Medici's," said I, speaking with all the more contempt when
I compared the guileful court beauty, Mile. d'Arency, with the pure, sweet woman before me;
"one of those creatures whom Catherine called her Flying Squadron, and she betrayed a very
honest gentleman to his death."

"Betrayed him!" she repeated.

"Yes, by a pretended love tryst."

Mademoiselle trembled, and held out her hand to the dial for support.

Something in her attitude, something in the pose of her slender figure, something in her white
face, her deep, wide-open eyes, so appealed to my love, to my impulse to protect her, that
I clasped her in my arms, and drew her close to me. She made no attempt to repulse me, and
into her eyes came the look of surrender and yielding.

"Ah, mademoiselle, Julie," I murmured, for she had told me her name, "you do not shrink from
me, your hand clings to mine, the look in your eyes tells what your lips have refused to utter.
The truth is out, you love me!"

She closed her eyes, and let me cover her face with kisses.

Presently, still holding her hand in mine, I stepped to the other side of the sun-dial, so
that we stood with it between us, our hands clasped over it.

"There needs no oath between us now," said I, "yet here let us vow by the moonlight and the
sunlight that mark the time on this old dial. I pledge you here, on the symbol of time, to
fidelity forever!"

"False flame of woman's love!"

came the song of the gypsy, before mademoiselle could answer.

The look of unresisting acquiescence faded from her face. She started backward, drew her hand
quickly from mine, and with the words, "Oh, monsieur, monsieur!" glided swiftly from the garden
and around the chateau. In perplexity, I followed. When I reached the courtyard she was not
there. She had gone in, and to her chamber.

But I was happy. I felt that now she was mine. Her face, her attitude, had spoken, if not her
lips. As for her breaking away, I thought that due to a last recurrence of her old scruples
concerning the barrier between us. I did not attribute it to the effect of the sudden intrusion
of the gypsy's song. It was by mere accident, I told myself, that her scruples had returned
at the moment of that intrusion. What was there in her love that I need fear? She had told
me to heed the song as a warning. I considered this a mere device on her part to check the
current of my wooing. Her old scruples or her maidenly impulses might cause her to use for
that purpose any device that might occur. But, how long she might postpone the final confession
of surrender, it must come at last, for the surrender itself was already made. Her heart was
mine. What mattered it now though the governor had come to Clochonne solely in quest of me?
What though he knew my hiding-place, discovered by the persistent De Berquin, and its location
by him communicated through Barbemouche? For, I said to myself, if De Berquin had sent word
to the governor, Barbemouche must have been the messenger, for the three rascals now held at
Maury could not have been relied on, and they had the appearance of having wandered in the
forest several days.

I was just about to summon Blaise, that I might learn the result of his interrogations, when
I heard the voice of Maugert, who was lying in watch by the forest path, call out:

"Who goes there?"

"We are friends," came the answer, quickly.

This voice also I knew, as well as Maugert's. It was that of De Berquin.

I ran to the gate and heard him tell Maugert, who covered him with an arquebus, match lighted,
that he was seeking the abode of the Sieur de la Tournoire, for whom he had important news.

"Let him come, Maugert!" I called from the gate.

I stepped back into the courtyard. At that moment Blaise came out of the chateau. Very soon
De Berquin strode in through the gateway, followed by the burly Barbemouche. Both looked wayworn
and fatigued.

"Monsieur de la Tournoire," said De Berquin, saluting me with fine grace and a pleasant air,--he
never lost the ways of a gallant gentleman,--"I have come here to do you a service."

So! thought I, does he really intend to seek my confidence and try to betray me, after all?
Admirable self-assurance!

I was about to answer, when Barbemouche put in;

"So you, whom it was in my power to kill a hundred times over that night, are the very Tournoire
whom I chased from one end of France to the other eight years ago?" And he looked me over with
a frank curiosity.

"Yes," I said, with a smile, "after you had destroyed the home of my fathers. And at last you
have found me."

"I was but the servant of the Duke of Guise then," said Barbemouche.

At this point Blaise, who, in all our experiences with De Berquin and his henchmen, had not
while sober come within hearing of Barbemouche's voice, or within close sight of him, stepped
up and said, coolly:

"Let me see the face that goes with that voice."

And he threw up the front of Barbemouche's hat with one hand, at the same time raising the
front of his own with the other. The two men regarded each other for a moment.

"Praise to the God of Israel, we meet again!" cried Blaise, in a loud voice, catching the other
by the throat.

"Who are you?" demanded Barbemouche.

"The man on whom you left this mark,"--and Blaise pointed to his own forehead,--"in Paris on
St. Bartholomew's night thirteen years ago."

"Then I did not kill you?" muttered Barbemouche, glaring fiercely at Blaise.

"God had further use for me," said Blaise.

De Berquin and I both stepped aside, perceiving that here was a matter in which neither of
us was concerned. But we looked on with some interest, deferring until its adjustment our own
conversation.

"Then it was you who spoiled my appearance for the rest of my days!" cried Barbemouche. "May
you writhe in the flames of hell!"

And, being without sword or other weapon, he aimed a blow of the fist at Blaise's head. Blaise,
disdaining to use steel against an unarmed antagonist, contented himself with dodging the blow
and dragging Barbemouche to a place where an opening in the courtyard wall overlooked a steep,
rocky descent which was for some distance without vegetation. Here the two men grappled. There
was some hard squeezing, some quick bending either way, a final powerful forcing forward of
the arms on the part of Blaise, a last violent propulsion of the same arms, and Barbemouche
was thrown backward down the precipice. Blaise stood for a time looking oven. We heard a series
of dull concussions, a sound of the flight of detached small stones, and then nothing.

"God giveth the battle to the strong!" said Blaise, and he came away from the precipice.

De Berquin shrugged his shoulders, and turned again to me.

"As I said, monsieur," he began, "I have come here to do you a service."

"Indeed!" said I, coldly, choosing to assume indifference and ignorance. "I knew not that I
was in need of any."

"Your need of it is all the greater for that," said De Berquin, quietly. "Monsieur, I would
hinder some one from doing you a foul deed, though to do so I must rob that person of your esteem."

"Speak clearly, M. de Berquin," said I, thinking that he was taking the wrong way to get my
confidence. "It is impossible that any one having my esteem should need hindrance from a foul
deed."

De Berquin stood perfectly still and looked me straight in the face, saying:

"Is it a foul deed to betray a man into the hands of his enemies?"

"Yes," said I, thoughtfully, wondering that he should try to begin that very act by accusing
some one else of intending it.

"Then, monsieur," he went on, "look to yourself."

But I looked at him instead, with some amazement at the assurance with which he continued to
face me.

"And what man of my following would you accuse of intending to betray me?" I asked.

"No man, monsieur," he said, still meeting my gaze steadily, and not changing his attitude.

"No man?" I repeated, for a moment puzzled. "Oh, ho! The boy, Pierre, perhaps, who left us
while we were at the inn by the forest road! Well, monsieur, you speak falsely. I would stake
my arm on his loyalty."

"It is not to tell you of any boy that I have sought you these many days in this wilderness,"
said De Berquin, all the time standing as motionless as a statue, and speaking in a very low
voice. "It is not a boy that has come from M. de la Chatre, the governor of the province, to
betray you."

"Not man nor boy," I said, curious now to learn what he was aiming at. "What, then? Mademoiselle's
maid, honest Jeannotte? You must take the trouble to invent something else, M. de Berquin.
You become amusing."

"Not the maid, monsieur," he replied, very quietly, putting a stress on the word "maid," and
facing me as boldly as ever.

Slowly it dawned on me what he meant. Slowly a tremendous indignation grew in me against the
man who dared to stand before me and make that accusation. Yet I controlled myself, and merely
answered in a tone as low as his, but slowly drawing my sword:

"By God, you mean her!"

"Mlle. de Varion," he answered, never quailing.

Filled with a, great wrath, my powers of thought for the time paralyzed, my mind capable of
no perception, but that of mademoiselle's sweetness and purity opposed to this horrible charge
of black treason, I could answer only:

"Then the devil is no more the king of liars, unless you are the devil! Come, Monsieur de Berquin,
I will show you what I think of the service you would do me!"

With drawn sword in hand, I walked across the courtyard and pointed to the way leading around
the side of the chateau to an open space in one part of the garden. I knew that there we should
not be interrupted.

As I waited for De Berquin to precede me, I chanced to look at Blaise. A strange, thoughtful
expression was on his face. He, too, stood quite still.

De Berquin looked at my face for a moment longer, then seemed to realize the hopelessness of
his attempt to make me credit his accusation, shrugged his shoulders and said, courteously:

"As you will, monsieur!"

And he walked before me around the side of the chateau to the bare space in the garden. Blaise,
having received no orders, did not presume to follow.

We took off our doublets and other encumbrances, De Berquin raising his sheathed sword and
very gracefully unsheathing by throwing the scabbard off into the air, so that it fell some
distance away in the garden.

Twice before that night it had been shown that I was the more skilful swordsman, yet now he
stood without the least sign of fear. If he had formerly retreated, on being disarmed, it was
from situations in which he had figured ridiculously, and could not endure to remain before
Mademoiselle de Varion. Also, he had sought to preserve his life, so that he might have revenge.
But now that events had taken their turn, he showed himself not afraid to face death.

"It is a pity," I said, "that a brave man should be so great a liar."

"Rather," he said, "that so brave a man"--and his look showed that he alluded to me--"should
be so easily fooled; and that so fair a woman should be so vile a traitor."

And, seeing that I was ready, he put himself into a posture of defence.

The cup of my resentment having been already filled to overflowing, it was impossible for me
to be further angered by this. But there came on me a desire to let him know that I was not
as ill-informed as he had thought me; that perhaps he was the greater fool. So, holding my
sword lowered, I said:

"You should know, monsieur, that I am aware who undertook the task of betraying me to La Chatre."

"And yet you say that I lie," he replied.

"I know even how the matter was to be conducted," I went on. "The spy was first to learn my
place of refuge and send the information to La Chatre. The governor was then to come to Clochonne.
The governor is already at Clochonne. The spy, doubtless, learned where I hid, and sent word
to La Chatre."

"Doubtless," he replied, impassively, "inasmuch as you speak of one of mademoiselle's boys
having left you. He was probably the messenger."

"Monsieur," I said, "you desire to leave a slander of mademoiselle that may afflict me or her
after your death; but your quickness to perceive circumstances that seemingly fit your lie
will not avail you. A thousand facts might seem to bear out your falsehood, yet I would not
heed them. I would know them to be accidental. For every lie there are many circumstances that
may be turned to its support. So do not, in dying, felicitate yourself on leaving behind you
a lie that will live to injure her or me. Your lie shall die with you."

"You tire me with reiterations, monsieur," he replied, calmly. "Since you will maintain that
I have lied, do so. It is you who will suffer for your blindness, not I. I told you the truth,
not really because I wished to do you a kindness, but because there was a chance of its serving
my own purpose. The woman came here to find your hiding-place, and betray you to the governor.
La Chatre engaged her to do so. His secretary, Montignac, took it into his head that he would
like to become sole possessor of mademoiselle's time and attractions. But he could not undo
the governor's plans, nor could he hope for the woman's cooperation, as she seems to have taken
a dislike to him. It had been agreed that, when she had turned you over to the governor's soldiers,
she should go to Fleurier to receive her reward. She had made this condition so that she might
keep out of the way of Montignac. Now he dared not interfere to prevent her from doing the
governor's errand, but he hoped to see more of her after that should be completed. Such, as
it was necessary for him to tell me, was the state of his mind when I came along--I, ordered
from court, hounded from Paris by creditors, ragged and ready for what might turn up. Near
Fleurier Montignac turned up, in La Chatre's cavalcade. He wanted me to become the woman's
escort to Clochonne, keep my eyes on her, know when she had settled your business, and, when
she was about to start for Fleurier, keep her as his guest in a house that I was to hire in
Clochonne. But why do I grow chilly telling you all this, when you do not intend to believe
me? Shall we not begin, monsieur?"

"Doubtless you are vain of your skill at fabrication, monsieur," I said, wishing to deprive
him of the satisfaction of thinking me deceived by his story, "but you have no reason to be.
That a woman should be sent to betray an outlaw, and then a man sent to keep her in view and
finally hold her,--it is complicated, to say the least. Why should you not have been sent to
take me?" I thought that I had touched him here.

"That is what I asked Montignac," he replied. "But he told me that she had already been commissioned
to hunt you down, before he had made up his mind to possess her by force. Moreover, it would
not do to disturb the governor's plan, on which the governor was mightily set, though Montignac
himself had suggested it. 'And,' said Montignac, 'you have not a woman's wit to find his hiding-place,
or a woman's means of luring him from his men.' And yet, you will remember that when I thought
you were a lackey, and you offered to deliver La Tournoire to me, I grasped at the chance,
for I knew that, however set the governor might be on having the lady take you, he would be
glad enough to have you taken by any one, and if I took you and got the reward I could afford
to bear Montignac's displeasure. I think Montignac's desire to have the lady take you was due
to his having suggested the plan. He wanted both the credit of having devised your capture
and the pleasure of mademoiselle's society. Yes, when you held out to me the possibility, I
was willing to risk Montignac's resentment and take La Tournoire myself. Before that, I had
confined myself to the task of following mademoiselle. At first you and your supposed master
were in my way. I had hoped to get her from you, and to obtain her esteem by the mock rescue,
but this was spoiled first by my men and then by you. After that failure, I could merely follow
and hope that chance would enable me to do Montignac's will."

"You cleverly mix truth and fiction, monsieur," I said. "You interest me. Go on."

It is true that he did interest me, so ingenious did I think his recital.

"I have no wish to prolong the life of one of us by this talk," he replied, "but a tale once
begun should be finished. You know how you promised to deliver up La Tournoire to me. I grant
that you kept the promise to the letter. During the rest of that night I lay quiet with my
men. We heard your departure the next morning, and when the way was clear we followed in your
track. We could do so quietly, for we were afoot; we had left our horses in another part of
this wilderness the day before. We heard you greeted by your sentinel, and guessed that you
were near your burrow. We came no further, but looked around and found a projecting rock, under
which to lie hidden, and a tree from whose top this place could be seen. So we have lodged
under the rock, one of us keeping watch night and day from the tree. I hoped thus to be able
to know when you should be taken, so that I might then look to the lady. But no soldiers came
for you, neither you nor the lady departed from the place, no sign came to indicate an attack
or a flight. You can imagine, monsieur, how a gentleman accustomed to court pleasures and Parisian
fare enjoyed the kind of life that we have been leading for these several days. Now and then
one of us would crawl forth to a stream for water, or forage for nuts and berries, and we snared
a few birds, which we had to eat raw, not daring to make a fire. This existence became tiresome.
This afternoon three of my knaves deserted. What was I to do? It was useless to go back to
Montignac without having done his work. To stay there awaiting your capture or the lady's departure
was perhaps to starve. To go any distance from this place was to lose sight of the woman, who
might leave at any time, and we could not know what direction she might take. The enterprise
had been at best a scurvy one, fit only for a man at the end of his resources. In fine, monsieur,
when the last of my men threatened to follow his comrades, I crawled out of my hole, stretched
my aching bones, and resolved to let Montignac's business go to the devil. There was no chance
for me in the service of the French King, therefore I came to offer myself as a member of your
company. In the Huguenot cause I might earn back some of the good things of life. It no longer
matters on which side I fight. 'Twas the same with Barbemouche. And, inasmuch as I had decided
to cast in my fortunes with yours, I naturally wished you well. Thus it was my own interest
I sought to serve, as well as yours, when I told you that this woman came here to betray you
to La Chatre."

"You told me that," said I, calmly, "for one or both of two purposes,--the first, to make me
withdraw my protection from the lady, in order that she might be at your disposal; the second,
to get my confidence, in order that you yourself might betray me to La Chatre."

De Berquin laughed. "Am I, then, such a fool as to think that the wary Tournoire could be put
off his guard by a man? No, no. The governor or Montignac was wise in choosing a woman for
that delicate task. It is only by a Delilah that a Samson can be caught!"

"Monsieur," I said, with ironical admiration, "you are indeed as artful in your lies as you
are bold. You have constructed a story that every circumstance seems to bear out. Yet one circumstance
you have forgotten, or you are not aware of it. It destroys your whole edifice. The father
of Mlle. de Varion is now a prisoner, held by the governor's order, on a charge of treason
for having harbored Huguenots. Would his daughter undertake to do the work of a spy and a traitor
for that governor against a Huguenot? Now for your ingenuity, monsieur!"

"Such things have been known," he answered, not at all discomfited. "His daughter may not have
her father's weakness for Huguenots, and if she bears resentment against the governor on her
father's account, her desire of the reward may outweigh that resentment. Covetousness is strong
in women. You would not expect great filial devotion in a hired spy and traitress. Moreover,
for all I know, this woman may not be Mile, de Varion, although Montignac so named her to me.
She may have assumed that character at his suggestion, in order to get your confidence and
sympathy, not daring to pretend to be a Huguenot, lest some habitual act might betray the deception."

"Enough, M. de Berquin," I said. "I do your wit the credit of admitting that so well-wrought
a lie was never before told. Only two things prevent its being believed. It is to me that you
tell it, and it is of Mile, de Varion! You complained a while ago of being chilly. Let us now
warm ourselves!"

And so we went at it. I had no reason now to repeat the trick by which I had before disarmed
him. Indeed, I wished him to keep sword in hand that I might have no scruples about killing
him. I never could bring myself to give the death thrust to an unarmed man. Yet I was determined
that the brain whence had sprung so horrible a story against my beloved should invent no more,
that the lips which had uttered the accusation should not speak again. Yet he gave me a hard
fight. It was for his life that he now wielded sword, and he was not now taken by surprise
as he had been in our former meetings, or unsteadied by a desire of making a great flourish
before a lady. He now brought to his use all his training as a fencer. He had a strong wrist
and a good eye, despite the dissolute life that he had led. For some minutes our swords clashed,
our boots beat the ground, and our lungs panted as we fought in the moonlight. I was anxious
to have the thing over quickly, lest the noise we made might reach the ears of mademoiselle,
and perhaps bring her to the scene. I knew that Blaise would keep the men away, but he would
not presume to restrain mademoiselle. I wished, too, to have the thrust made before my antagonist
should begin to show weakness of body or uncertainty of eye. But he maintained a good guard,
and also required me to give much time and attention to my own defence. Indeed, his point once
passed through my shirt under my left shoulder, my left arm being then raised. But at last
I caught him between two ribs as he was coming forward, and it was almost as though he had
fallen on my sword. I missed his own sword only by quickly turning sidewise so that his weapon
ran along the front of my breast without touching me.

He uttered one shriek, I drew my sword out of his body, and he fell in a limp heap. With a
convulsive motion he straightened out and was still. I turned his body so that his face was
towards the sky, and I went back to the courtyard, leaving him alone in the moonlight.

CHAPTER XIV.

"GOD GRANT I DO NOT FIND YOU FALSE!"

In the courtyard was mademoiselle, very pale and agitated, standing by Blaise and grasping
his arm as if for support. She still had on the gown of pale green that she had worn earlier
in the evening. Her head was uncovered, her hair in some disorder, and this, with the pallor
of her face and the fright in her wide-open eyes, gave her some wildness of appearance. It
was De Berquin's piercing death-cry that had blanched her cheek and made her clutch Blaise's arm.

"You have killed him!" she said, in a voice little above a whisper.

"You ought not to be here, mademoiselle," I replied.

"From my chamber window I saw you talking with M. de Berquin. What he said I know not, but
you drew your sword and went away with him. I waited for a long time in anxiety until I heard
the sound of swords. I came down, and would have gone to beg you to stop, but when I heard
that awful shriek I could not go any further. Oh, monsieur, you have killed him!"

"He brought it on himself, mademoiselle," was all that I could say.

And here Blaise did what I thought a strange and presumptuous thing. He approached mademoiselle,
and, looking her keenly in the eyes, said, gravely:

"He said that you came from the governor of the province to betray M. de la Tournoire!"

"Blaise!" I cried, in great astonishment and anger. "How dare you even utter the calumny he
spoke? Go you and look to the disposal of his body." And I motioned him away with a wrathful
gesture.

He looked frowningly at mademoiselle and then at me, and went off, with a shrug of his shoulders,
to the place where De Berquin lay.

I turned to mademoiselle; she stood like a statue, her eyes fixed on the empty air before her.
Yet she seemed to know when my look fell on her, for at that instant a slight tremor passed
through her.

"Tremble not for M. de Berquin, mademoiselle," said I, thinking of that divine gentleness in
a woman which makes her pity even those who have persecuted her. "Indeed, he must have wished
to die. He well knew that a certain way to death was to tempt my sword with a black lie of
the truest lady in France."

"You killed him," she murmured, in a low, pitying voice, "because he said--I came from the
governor--to betray you!"

"Why else, mademoiselle? What is the matter? Why do you look so?"

For all life and consciousness seemed to be about to leave her countenance.

"Mon dieu!" she said, weakly, "I cannot tell--I--"

I hastened to put my arms about her, that she might not fall.

"You pity him," I said, "but there could be nothing of good in one who could so slander you.
Indeed, mademoiselle, you are ill. Let me lead you in. Believe me, mademoiselle, he well deserved
his death."

Thus endeavoring to calm and restore her mind, I led her slowly into the chateau and up the
steps to the door of her chamber. She followed as one without will and with little strength.
Hugo and Jeannotte, who had been sitting on the landing outside her door, had risen as we came
up the stairs. When I took my arms from about mademoiselle, she leaned on the maid's shoulder,
and so passed into her chamber, giving me neither look nor word. Leaving Hugo to keep his vigil
outside her door, I went down to the great hall of the chateau.

Several of the men lay on the floor, most of them asleep. I asked one of them where Blaise
had bestowed the three rascals who had become our prisoners, and he rose and led the way to
a dark chamber at the rear of the hall. He took a torch that was stuck in the wall and followed
me into this chamber. It was my desire to learn from these men whether or not Barbemouche,
or one of them, had borne to M. de la Chatre an account of my hiding-place; for there had been
time for one to have done so and returned. It might be that the original plan suggested to
the governor by Montignac had been altered and that some other step had been adopted for my
capture. The very visit of De Berquin, the very story he had told me, might have been connected
with this other step. One of his purposes, in trying to make me think myself betrayed, may
have been to induce me to leave a place so inaccessible to attack. If a new plan had been put
in operation, these men might know something of it. I would question them and then consult
with Blaise, comparing the answers they should give me with those they had given Blaise.

They lay snoring, their hands fastened behind their backs, their ankles so tied that they could
not stretch out their legs. The man with me said that Blaise, after belaboring them and interrogating
them to his heart's content, had relented, and brought some cold meat and wine for them. I
suppose that the gentle spirit of his mother had obtained the ascendency. They had devoured
the food with the avidity of starving dogs, and had lain down, full of gratitude, to sleep.
Blaise had then bound them up as a precaution against a too unceremonious departure. I woke
them one after another, with gentle kicks, and they stared up at me, blinking in the torchlight.
Submissively and readily, though drowsily, they answered my questions. They swore that neither
Barbemouche nor any one of them, nor De Berquin himself, had borne any message to the governor;
that the five had remained together from the first, living under the rock and keeping watch
from the tree-top, as De Berquin had narrated, until the previous afternoon, when the three
had deserted, only to fall into the hands of our sentinel. In every detail their account agreed
with that of their late master. When I accused them of telling a prearranged lie, and threatened
them with the torture, the foppish fellow said:

"What more can a man tell than the truth? But if you're not satisfied with it, monsieur, and
let me know what you wish me to say, I'll say it with all my heart, and swear to it on whatever
you name."

From the faces of the others, I knew that they, too, were willing to tell anything, true or
false, to avoid torture, and so I could not but believe their story. Therefore, said I to myself,
Montignac's plan not adhered to. De Berquin sent no one to the governor with information concerning
my hiding-place. La Chatre had come to Clochonne without having awaited such information. De
Berquin had been too slow. Perhaps, indeed, the plan had been altered so as to omit the sending
of this preliminary word to the governor. A fixed time might have been set for the coming of
the governor to Clochonne. De Berquin had probably retained his men that he might have one
to use as messenger to the governor, in notifying La Chatre where to place his ambuscade, and
that he might have others to waylay mademoiselle. His lie was doubtless a bold device to put
mademoiselle into his power, and to get entrance to my company. It was a last resource, it
was just as likely to bring death as to bring success, but he had taken a gambler's chances.
They had gone against him, and he had uncomplainingly accepted his defeat.

So the governor's presence at Clochonne was not to be taken as reason for great alarm, inasmuch
as there seemed now no probability that he knew my hiding-place. We were still safe at Maury.
We should have only to maintain greater vigilance. Failing to hear from his agent, who now
lay dead in the garden at Maury, and could never work us harm, the governor would eventually
take new measures for my capture, or, if I kept quiet and my men left no traces, he would presently
suppose that I had gone from his province. As for mademoiselle, neither La Chatre nor Montignac
knew where she was. We might, therefore, have more of those delightful, peaceful days at Maury.
Moreover, what better time to surprise the commandant of the Chateau of Fleurier than while
La Chatre was at Clochonne? My heart beat gaily at thought of how bright was the prospect.
I passed out by a back way to the garden, where Blaise had been looking to the body of De Berquin.

My late antagonist lay in peace and order, Blaise having replaced his doublet on him and put
his sword by his side.

"A handsome gentleman," said Blaise, quietly, looking down at the body.

"But a fool as well as a liar," said I. "How could he think that such a story was to be swallowed?
To have thrown him into confusion, I should have told him that I had overheard the plan for
my capture, that I knew of an attempt to be made to get me from my men, that mademoiselle has
never made any such attempt either by tryst or summons or on any pretext whatever."

"Neither has De Berquin," answered Blaise, sullenly, "and yet you think he was the spy whom
the governor sent."

"He had no opportunity," I replied, rather sharply, annoyed at Blaise's manner. "He did not
dare come here until he had formed a desperate plan on which to hazard everything."

"As for mademoiselle's having had the opportunity and yet not having done so," Blaise went
on, with a kind of doggedness, "the spy was not to plan the ambush until the governor should
arrive at Clochonne."

"By God!" I cried. "Do you dare hint that you credit this villain's lie for a moment?" In my
exasperation I half drew my sword.

"I credit nothing and discredit nothing," he said, in a low but stubborn tone, "but I place
no one above doubt, except God and you. I have had my thoughts, monsieur, and have them still.
It is enough, as yet, to keep all eyes open and turned in many directions."

"You cur! You dare to suspect--" Without finishing the sentence, I struck him across the face
with the back of my hand.

He drew a deep breath, but made no movement.

"I shall not trouble myself to suspect," he went on, with no change of tone, "until we know
that M. de la Chatre is at Clochonne,--"

"We know that already," I broke in, hotly. "Marianne brought the news this afternoon."

"Until we know that mademoiselle knows it," he went on.

"We know that, too," I said. "She heard Marianne tell me."

"Until her other servant happens to be missing, and some occasion arises through her for your
going somewhere without your men. For example, if she should go for a walk in the forest with
her maid, and presently the maid should return with word that mademoiselle lay mortally hurt
somewhere--"

"I would go to her at once!" I cried, involuntarily.

"So mademoiselle would suppose. You would not wait for your men to arm and accompany you. You
would hasten to the place, without precaution, never thinking that mademoiselle's servant might
have carried word to La Chatre, a day before, to have men waiting for you. Kill me if you like,
monsieur! I cannot avoid my thoughts. They are at your service as my hand and sword are. I
may be all wrong, but one cannot fathom women. You used to speak of a lady of Catherine de
Medici's--"

Ah, considered I, it is the thought of Mlle. d'Arency's deed that has awakened these foolish
suspicions in Blaise's mind! I had given him some account of how that lady had, by a love tryst,
drawn poor De Noyard to his death. He was incapable of discriminating between women. He could
not see that Mlle. de Varion was of a kind of woman as unlike the court intriguer as if the
two belonged to different species of beings. Ought one to expect delicacy of perception from
a common soldier? His suspiciousness arose partly from his devotion to me. So, much as I adored
mademoiselle and held her sacred and above the slightest breath of accusation, I regretted
the blow I had given him, and which he had received so meekly.

"I see, Blaise, what is in your head," I said, "but there are matters of which you cannot judge.
No more of this talk, therefore. And I require of you the greatest respect and devotion to
mademoiselle."

"Very well, monsieur," he said, "Let me say but this: You remember my forebodings the last
time we rode through the province. Because we came back alive, you thought there was nothing
in them. Perhaps there was nothing. Only I have been thinking that out of that last journey
may yet come our destruction. My premonition may have been right, after all."

I smiled and walked back to the courtyard and sat down on the bench, no longer angry at either
De Berquin or Blaise, and calm in the thought that there seemed no immediate danger. If I could
but communicate my sense of security to mademoiselle! If I might see a smile on her face, if
the look of yielding would but come back there and remain! Surely her scruples would pass when
I should bring her father to her. What imaginary barrier could stand before the combined forces
of love and gratitude? The rescue of her father must not be longer deferred. I must form my
plan immediately. Yet I continued to waste time thinking of the future, of the day when she
should acknowledge herself mine. I took off my hat and removed from it the glove that she had
given me. It was like a part of her; it was fashioned by use to the very form of her hand.
I pressed it to my lips and then looked up at the window of her chamber.

"Ah, Mlle. Julie," I said, "I know that you love me. You will be mine; something in the moonlight,
in the murmurs of the trees, in the song of the nightingale, tells me so. How beautiful is
the world! I am too happy!"

I heard rapid footsteps from outside the gate, and presently one of my men ran into the courtyard
from the forest. It was Frojac, who had been all day in Clochonne in search of information.
Seeing me, he stopped and stood still, out of breath from his run.

At the same moment Blaise came from the garden and stood beside the bench, curious to hear
Frojac's news.

"Ah, Frojac!" said I. "From Clochonne? I know your news already. M. de la Chatre is there."

And I motioned to him to speak quietly, lest his news, which might be alarming, should reach
the ears of mademoiselle through her chamber window.

"I had a talk with one of his men," said Frojac, "an old comrade of mine, who did not guess
that I was of your troop. I told him that I had given up righting and settled down as a poacher.
He says that it is well known to the governor's soldiers that the governor has come south to
catch you. He declares that the governor knows the exact location of your hiding-place."

"Soldiers' gabble," said I.

"But my old comrade is no fool," went on Frojac. "I pretended to laugh at him for thinking
that any one could find out the burrow of La Tournoire, and as we were drinking he got angry
and swore that he spoke truly. He said that the governor had got word of your hiding-place
from a boy. If you knew my comrade, monsieur, you would know that what he says is to be heeded.
He is one who talks little, but keeps his ears and eyes open."

"Word from a boy?" I repeated, rather to myself. "Could De Berquin have found some peasant
boy and despatched him to the governor?"

"My comrade says that the boy was sent by a woman," said Frojac.

"A woman!" I cried. "If it be true, then, malediction on her! Some covetous, spying wife of
a farmer has found us out, perchance!"

"Perchance, monsieur! But, all the same, I and Maugert, who was on guard yonder by the path,
took the liberty just now of stopping the boy of mademoiselle, your guest, as he was riding
off. In advance of him rode a woman. I had just come up the path and had stopped for a word
with Maugert. Suddenly the woman dashed by and was gone in an instant. Neither of us had time
to make up our minds whether to stop her or not, for she came from this place, not towards
it. By the time when we had decided that we ought to have detained her, she was out of hearing.
But then came a second horse, and that we stopped. The rider was the boy Hugo."

"An unknown woman departing from our very camp!" I said, rising. "The gypsy girl!" But at that
instant the gypsy girl, Giralda, came in through the gateway with an armful of herbs that she
had been gathering just outside the walls. She often plucked herbs after dark, as there are
some whose potency is believed to be the greater for their being uprooted at night. "Ah, no,
no, no!" I cried, repenting my unjust suspicion. "A woman hidden at Maury! She shall be followed
and caught and treated like any cur of a papegot spy, man or woman!" I was wild with rage to
think that our hiding-place might really have been discovered, my guards eluded, the presence
of mademoiselle perhaps reported to Montignac, her safety and ours put in immediate peril,
by some one who had contrived to find concealment under our very eyes! "And the boy Hugo riding
off by night!" I added. "Had this woman corrupted him, I wonder? Was it through him that she
obtained entrance and concealment? Where is he?"

I could at that moment have believed the most incredible things, even that a woman had hidden
herself in one of the ruined outbuildings; for what could have been more incredible than Frojac's
account of an unknown woman riding from the chateau at the utmost speed?

"Maugert is bringing him to you," said Frojac. "I ran ahead to apprise you of what had occurred."

"These are astounding things," I said, turning to Blaise. "Who can tell now how much the governor
knows or what he may intend? We may be attacked at any time. And half our men away! Perhaps
the governor knows that, too. If not, this woman may tell him. We shall have to flee at once
across the mountains. Mademoiselle is now well enough to endure the journey. I must tell her
to make ready for flight."

I looked up at mademoiselle's window, and took a step towards it; but at that moment Maugert
came into the courtyard, leading Hugo, whom he held by the arm with a grip of iron. The horse
had been left outside.

"My boy, what is this?" I cried, not hiding my anger. "You would ride away secretly, and without
permission of your mistress?"

"It was my duty, when I followed to protect her," the boy said. "Mlle. de Varion was mad, I
think, to go alone at this hour."

"Mademoiselle?" I echoed, in great mystification. "Alone? Whither?"

"To Clochonne, to M. de la Chatre," was the reply.

It took away from me for a moment the very power of speech. I stared at the boy in dumb amazement.

"Clochonne! La Chatre! Mademoiselle!" I murmured, questioningly, my faculty of comprehension
being for the instant dazed. "How do you know, boy?"

"She said so when she left this courtyard to take horse," the boy replied. "When I asked her
whither she was bound, she said to Clochonne to see M. de la Chatre, and she spoke of some
mission, but I could not hear the words exactly, for she was in great excitement. She then
made off, declaring she would go alone, but it was my duty, nevertheless, to follow and guard her."

"Mademoiselle gone to Clochonne, to La Chatre," I repeated, as one in a dream.

At that instant there came again from somewhere in the chateau the voice of the gypsy in the song.

"False flame of woman's love!"

"The devil!" muttered Blaise. "Was De Berquin right?" And he ran into the chateau.

"The woman who told our hiding-place!" said Frojac.

Could it be? Was she another Mademoiselle d'Arency? Had she thought that, after De Berquin's
accusation, any attempt on her part to draw me from my men would convict her in my eyes; that
indeed I might come at any moment to believe in the treachery of which he had warned me? Had
this thought driven her to Clochonne, where she might be safe from my avenging wrath, where
also she might advise the governor to attack me at once? She had spoken to the boy of a mission.
There had, then, been a mission, and it had to do with herself and the governor! As this horrible
idea filled my mind, I felt a kind of sinking, and as if the very earth trembled beneath me.
But then I thought of mademoiselle's sweet face, and I hurled the dark thought from me, amazed
that I could have held it for an instant.

"It is not true!" I cried, loudly. "By God, it is not true! I'll not believe it! She has not
gone! She is in her chamber yonder!" And I went and stood beneath her window. "Mademoiselle!
Come to the window! Tell us that the boy lies or is deluded! Mademoiselle, I say!"

But no face appeared at the window--that window up to which I had looked a few moments before
while I sat on the bench, thinking that my love was behind it.

And now Blaise came running out of the chateau. He stopped on the steps.

"She is not there," he said. "I found only the maid, wailing out prayers to a Catholic saint!"

So she was really gone--gone! She must have left while I was interrogating De Berquin's three
henchmen in their cell or while I had stood with Blaise in the garden, reproving him for his
suspicions of her.

"And because he assailed her loyalty I killed that man!" I said aloud, forgetful, for the time,
of the presence of Blaise and Frojac, Maugert, Hugo, and the gypsy girl. All these stood in
silence, not knowing what to do or say, awaiting some order or sign from me.

"She is a woman, monsieur!" said Blaise, gently, as if he thought to please me by offering
some excuse for her conduct, or for my having been so deceived in her.

And then again I saw her pure, pale face, her full, moist eyes, her slender, girlish figure.
Let the evidence be what it might, it was impossible for me to see her in my mind and conceive
her to be treacherous. There must be some other thing accounting for all these strange circumstances.
She could not be a spy, a hired traitress! A glad thought came to me. She might have thought
that her presence added to my danger, that I would refuse to leave Maury while she continued
weak, that I might thus through her be caught, that her departure would leave me no reason
for further delay. It was a wild thought, but it was within possibility, so I took it in and
clung to it. At such a time how does a man welcome the least surmise that agrees with his wishes
or checks his fears!

"She is a woman, monsieur!" Blaise had said, even while this thought burst upon me.

"So much the worse for any man that dare accuse her!" I cried. "She is the victim of some devilish
seeming! My armor, Maugert! Frojac, to horse! You and I ride at once! Blaise, marshal the men,
and follow when you can, by the forest path!"

"Ah!" cried Blaise, overjoyed. "To Guienne, to join Henri of Navarre?"

"No!" I answered. "To Clochonne, to join mademoiselle!"

Maugert obediently and hastily brought me my breast-piece, and began to adjust it to my body.
I already had my sword. Frojac had started for the stables, but at my answer to Blaise he stopped
and looked at me in astonishment.

It was thus with me: Mademoiselle had gone. The presence that had made Maury a paradise to
me was no longer there. The place was now intolerable. I could not exist away from mademoiselle.
Where she was not, life to me was torture. Guilty or innocent, she gave the world all the charm
it had for me. Traitress or true, she drew me to her. If she were innocent, she imperilled
herself. In any event, if she went to Clochonne she put herself in the power of Montignac.
The thought of that was maddening to me. I must find her, whatever the risk. Perhaps I could
catch her before she reached Clochonne. If I ran into danger, I should presently have Blaise
and the men to help me out; but I could not wait for them to arm. Every minute of delay was
galling. Into what might she fall? Whatever she be, good or bad, angel or fiend, I must see
her--see her!

Blaise stood looking at me with open mouth.

"She will prove her honesty, my life upon it!" I said.

"You are mad!" cried Blaise. "She will reach the chateau of Clochonne long before you do!"

"Then I shall enter the chateau!" I answered, helping Maugert buckle on my armor.

"And meet the governor and garrison!" said Blaise.

"They will rejoice to see me!"

"'Tis rushing into the lion's den, monsieur!" put in Frojac.

"Let the lion look to himself," said I, standing forth at last, all armed and ready.

Frojac ran to get the horses.

"They would not let you see her!" cried Blaise, stubbornly standing in my way. "You would go
straight to death for nothing! My captain, you shall not!"

And, as I started towards the stables to mount, he lay hands on me to hold me back, and Maugert,
too, caught me by one of the arms.

"Out of my way, rebels!" I cried, vehemently, struggling to free myself from them. "I shall
see her to-night though I have to beat down every sword in France and force the very gates
of hell!"

I threw them both from me so violently that neither dared touch me again. As I stepped forward
I saw on the ground at my feet the glove that mademoiselle had given me, and which I had been
caressing while sitting alone in the courtyard. I must have dropped it on hearing Frojac's
news. I now stopped and picked it up. 'Twas all that was left with me of mademoiselle. She
had worn it, it had the form of her hand. I held it in my fingers and looked at it. Again came
the song of the gypsy:

"False flame of woman's love!"

I pressed the glove again and again to my lips, tears gushed from my eyes, and I murmured:
"Ah, mademoiselle, God grant I do not find you false!"

Five minutes later, Frojac and I were speeding our horses over the forest path towards Clochonne.

CHAPTER XV.

TO CLOCHONNE, AFTER MADEMOISELLE

On through the forest, on over the narrow path, the horse seeming to feel my own impatience,
his hoofs crushing the fallen twigs and the vegetation that lay in the way, the branches of
the trees striking me in forehead and eyes, my heart on fire, my mind a turmoil, on to learn
the truth, on to see her! The moon was now overhead, and here and there it lighted up the path.
Close behind me came Frojac. I heard the footfalls and the breathing of his horse.

Would we come up to her before she reached Clochonne? This depended on the length of start
she had. She would lose some time, perhaps, through being less familiar with the road than
we were, yet wherever the road lay straight before her she would force her horse to its utmost,
guessing that her departure would be discovered and herself pursued.

My mind inclined this way and that as I rode. Now I saw how strong was the evidence against
her, yet I refused to be convinced by it before I should hear what she might have to say. Now
I conjured up her image before me, and then all the evidence was naught. It was impossible
that this face, of all faces in the world, could have been a mask to conceal falsehood and
treachery, that this voice could have lied in its sweet and sorrowful tones, that her appearance
of grief could have been but a pretence, that her seemingly unconscious signs of love could
have been simulation!

Yet had not the gypsy sung of the false flame of woman's love? It is true, she had bade me
heed these words. Would she have done so had her own appearance of love been false? Perhaps
it was this very thought, the very improbability of a false woman's warning a man against woman's
treachery, that had made her do so, that I might the less readily on occasion believe her false.
Who can tell the resources and devices of a subtle woman?

What? Was I doubting her? Was I believing the story? Was I, with my closer knowledge of her,
with my experience of the freaks of circumstance, with my perception of her heart, to accept
the first apparent deduction from the few facts at hand, as blind, unthinking, undiscriminating
soldiers, Blaise and Frojac, had done? Did I not know of what kind of woman she was? She was
no Mlle. d'Arency.

Yet, who knows but that poor De Noyard had believed Mlle. d'Arency true? Might he not, with
the eyes of love, have seen in her as pure and spotless a creature as I had seen in Mile, de
Varion? Do the eyes of love, then, deceive? Is the confidence of lovers never to be relied on?

But I must have read her heart aright. Surely her heart had spoken to mine. Surely its voice
was that of truth. Surely I knew her. Were not her eyes to be believed. Were not truth, goodness,
gentleness, love, written on her face?

Yet, how went the gypsy's song,--the one we had heard him sing at Godeau's inn, by the forest road?

"But, ah, the sadness of the day When woman shows her treason! And, oh, the price we have to
pay For joys that have their season!

Might this, then, be true of any woman? So many men had found it out. The eyes of so many had
been opened at last. Was I still a fool, had I learned so little of women, had my experience
with Mile. d'Arency taught me only to beware of women outwardly like her, did I need a separate
lesson for each different woman on whom I might set my heart? Was it my peculiar lot to be
twice deceived in the same way?

And yet, how her eyes had moistened in dwelling on mine, how they had dropped before my look,
how she had yielded to my embrace, how she had stood still and unresisting in my arms! No,
no, they were wrong! De Berquin had lied, Blaise and Frojac were stolid fools, capable of making
only the most obvious inference, and I was a contemptible wretch to falter in my faith in her
for an instant! She was the victim of a set of circumstances. She had reason for her hasty
departure, she would make all clear in a few words. On, on, my horse, that I may hear those
words, that my heart may rejoice! How soon shall we come up to her? How far ahead is she? How
near to Clochonne? On! She is true, I know it. On! It may be even for my sake that she is endangering
herself. On, that I may be at her side to shield her! On, for of late I have passed all the
hours of the day with her, all the nights near her, her presence has been the breath of life
to me, it is a new and unwonted and intolerable thing to be away from her, and I madly thirst
and hunger for the sight of her! On, good horse!

Yet, torturing thought, how the story explained all that had seemed strange! How it fitted
so many facts! At the inn at Fleurier we had overheard the plan suggested by Montignac for
my capture, the employment of a spy who was to find my hiding place, send word of it, then
plan an ambush for me. Then the lady had come to the inn. Perhaps she was one who had already
some kind of relations with the governor and had now come purposely to meet him. What had passed
between her and the governor we had not overheard. It might easily have been the proposal by
him, and the acceptance by her, of the mission against me. Such a task might better be entrusted
to a woman. Catherine herself had employed women to entrap men who would have been on their
guard against men. Certain Huguenot gentlemen had been especially susceptible to the charms
of her accomplished decoys. Then the governor and his secretary had gone, and the latter had
reappeared with De Berquin. It might really be that this woman, whether she were Mlle. de Varion,
or whether she merely took that name in order to get my confidence without having to make the
risky pretence of being a Protestant, was desired by Montignac and yet disliked him, and that
De Berquin had been hired indeed to hold her forcibly for the secretary after she had accomplished
her mission. But her ingenuous signs of a tender feeling for me? A device to blind me and win
my trust, and so, through me, get the confidence of my supposed friend, La Tournoire. Her grief
on the journey? Mere pretence, in order to bear out her story and enlist my sympathy. Her periods
of silence and meditation? She was thinking out the details of her plot. Her questions about
La Tournoire? A means of learning what manner of man she would have to deal with, and of finding
out his hiding-place at a time when it would be easiest to despatch her boy with a description
of it to the governor. Her desire to know how great was my friendship for La Tournoire? This
arose perhaps from a thought that I might be won over to her purpose, perhaps from a fear that
I might some day avenge his betrayal. The barrier that, she said, lay between us? A pretext
to get rid of me as soon as I might be, not only useless to her, but also in the way of her
designs against La Tournoire. Her strange agitation? A mask to cover the real excitement that
one in her position must have felt. Her aspect of horror at the disclosure that I was La Tournoire?
This may have been real, coming from a fear that she might have betrayed herself by the curiosity
she had shown about me, that the eyes of La Tournoire must be keener than those of the light-hearted
man she had taken me to be, that I had dissembled to her as well as to De Berquin, that I had
been playing with her from the first. After she knew me to be La Tournoire, and was assured
that I did not suspect her, she no more spoke of my going from her. What was her weakness of
body at Maury but a pretext for delay, that the governor might have time to come to Clochonne
and the project of the ambush be carried out? She had forged chains of love to hold me where
she was. Her coyness but kept those chains the stronger, her postponement of the surrender
made it the more impossible for me to leave her side. Who can go from the woman he loves while
his fate is uncertain? If she had made no show of love, I could have left her. If she had confessed
her love in words, and promised to be my own, I could have endured to leave her for a time.
How well she knew men! How well she had maintained just that appearance which kept my thoughts
on her night and day, which made me unwilling to lose sight of her, and which would have made
me instantly responsive to any summons that she might have sent me from any part of the forest!

So, then, there were two sides, two appearances, to this woman. The one, the good side, that
which I had seen, that which had been the joy of my life, was not real, was but a seeming,
had no existence but in pretence. The other, the wicked side, was the real one, was the actual
woman. I had never known her. What I had known was but an assumption; it had no being. Was
this credible? Could a bad woman so delude one with an angelic pretence, so conceal her wicked
self? If so, to what depths of vileness might she not be capable of descending? Was it, then,
not that I had lost my beloved, but that she had never existed? At thought of it, I felt a
sickness within, a weakness, a choking, a giving way. And then her image came before me again,
as she had stood in the moonlit garden, and my beloved was born again. The woman I had known
was the real one. I had done her incredible wrong to have thought otherwise. But whether good
or bad, whether or not my betrayer, I loved her; I longed for her; I would see her face; I
would clasp her in my arms; I would claim her as my own; I would hold her against her own will
and the world's. On, my horse, on! Where is she now, what has befallen her, how soon shall
my heart bound at sight of her before me in the night? On! Whether she lead me to heaven or
to hell, I must be with her; I cannot wait!

Presently we came to the abode of Godeau and Marianne, where the forest path runs into the
old road across the mountains. We had to check our speed here, on account of the thick growth
of vegetation that served to mask the forest path from travellers on the road. We emerged from
this, and turned the heads of our horses towards Clochonne.

The door of the inn opened, and Marianne came forth. She had been watching.

"Monsieur," she said, "I did not know whether to come to you or not. I have been keeping my
eyes and ears open for any of the governor's troops."

"But you have seen or heard none," I answered, impatiently.

"None, monsieur. But some one has ridden by, towards Clochonne--the lady!"

I knew from her tone that she saw in Mademoiselle's flight alone sufficient reason for suspicion
of mademoiselle and for alarm on my own part. She, too, thought mademoiselle guilty, myself
duped. I first thought to pretend that mademoiselle's departure was a thing agreed on by her
and me, but it was no time to value the opinion of a peasant.

"On, Frojac!" I said, and on we went. We could make better speed now, for the road, though
little used and in bad condition, was continuous and, unlike the forest path, comparatively
free of intrusive vegetation. It was hard, too, for the weather had been dry for a long time.
The loud clatter of the horses' hoofs was some relief to my eager heart.

There is a place where this road passes near the verge of a precipice, which, like that at
Maury, falls sheer to the road along the River Creuse from Clochonne to Narjec. But, unlike
that at Maury, this declivity is bare of trees.

We were galloping steadily on and were approaching this place in the road. Frojac was now riding
at my side, as there was room for two horsemen to go abreast.

"Hark!" said Frojac, suddenly. "Do you hear something?"

I heard the sounds made by our riding, but no other.

"Horsemen," he went on. "And men afoot, on the march!"

"Where?" I asked. We continued to gallop forward.

"Ahead," he answered. "Don't you hear, monsieur?"

I listened. Yes, there was the far-off sound of many shod feet striking hard earth.

"It is ahead," said I.

"A body of troops," said Frojac.

"Then we may catch up with them."

"Or meet them. Perhaps they are coming this way."

"Troops on a night march!" said I.

Frojac looked at me. I saw written on his face the same thought that he saw on mine.

"Whose else could they be?" he said. "And for what other purpose?"

Had Monsieur de la Chatre, then, chosen this night for a surprise and attack on me at Maury?
If he knew my hiding-place, why should he not have done so? The idea of the ambush, then, had
been abandoned? Perhaps, indeed, the plan that I had overheard Montignac outline to La Chatre
had been greatly modified. Had mademoiselle, if she were in truth the governor's agent, known
of this night attack, if it were in truth a night attack against me? Had she fled in order
to avoid the shame or the danger of being present at my capture? These and many other questions
rushed through my mind.

"What shall we do?" asked Frojac, after a time.

"Go on," said I.

"But if we meet them, and they are La Chatre's men, I fear that our chances of catching up
with the lady will be small."

"But, after all, we do not know who they are. If they are coming this way, they must have met
her by this time. Perhaps they have stopped her? Who knows? I must follow her."

"But now it seems that the sound comes more from the north. They are certainly coming nearer.
They may be on the river road. We can see by going to the edge of the precipice and looking down."

"We should lose time."

"'Tis but a little way out of the road. This is where the road is nearest to the edge."

It might, indeed, be to my advantage to learn at once whether the troops were in the road in
front of us or in the road at the foot of the mountain. So I fought down my impatience, and
we turned from the road towards the precipice. There was little underbrush here to hinder us,
and in a very short time we reined in our horses and looked down on the vast stretch of moonlit
country below.

At the very foot of the steep was the road that runs from Clochonne to Narjec. And there, moving
from the former towards the latter, went a troop of horsemen, followed by a foot company of
arquebusiers. They trailed along, like a huge dark worm on the yellow way, following the turns
of the road. Seen from above, their figures were shortened and looked squat.

I looked among the horsemen.

"I cannot see La Chatre," said I.

"But some of these are his men," said Frojac, "for I see my old comrade. He knew nothing today
of this march. I see most of the men of the Clochonne garrison. I wonder what use they expect
to make of their horses if they intend to approach Maury from the river road."

I recalled now the exact words in which I had indicated to mademoiselle the location of my
hiding-place. I had said that it might be reached by turning up the wooded hill from the river
road, at the rock shaped like a throne. Was it, indeed, in accordance with directions communicated
to La Chatre by her that they were now proceeding?

"If they are bound for Maury," said I, "they have hit on a good time. Blaise and the men will
have left there long before they arrive. Come, Frojac, we lose precious minutes!"

"One thing is good, monsieur," said Frojac, as our horses resumed their gallop towards Clochonne.
"If we do have to follow the lady all the way to Clochonne, we shall not find many soldiers
there when we arrive. Nearly all of La Chatre's men and the garrison troops are down there
on the river road, marching further from Clochonne every minute."

Alas, it was not then of troops to be encountered that I thought! It was of what disclosure
might be awaiting me concerning mademoiselle. Would she admit her guilt or demonstrate her
innocence? Would she prove to be that other woman, or the one I had known? Would she laugh
or weep, be brazen or overwhelmed? How would she face me? That was my only thought. Let me
dare death a thousand times over, only to know the truth,--nay, only to see her again!

So we sped forward on the road, which, by its length and its windings, makes a gradual descent
of the northern slope of the wooded ridge. At last we came to the foot of the steep, emerged
from the forest, turned northward, and then saw before us, a little to the right, the sleeping
town of Clochonne. At the further end of that, on an eminence commanding the river, stood the
chateau, looking inaccessible and impregnable.

I thought of the day when I had first seen the chateau, the day when we had come over the mountains
from the south, and Frojac had pointed out to me where it stood in the distance. That was before
I had met mademoiselle or knew that she was in the world. Little had I thought that ever I
should be hastening madly towards that chateau in the night on such an errand or in such turmoil
of heart!

We came to the point where the road by which we had come converges with two others. One of
these, joining from the right, also comes from the south, and is, in fact, the new road across
the mountains. The other, joining from the left, is the road from Narjec, the one which runs
along the river and the base of the hills. It is this one which passes the throne-shaped rock
beneath Maury, and on which we had seen the troops. Had we, coming from the mountains, reached
this spot before the troops coming from Clochonne reached it, we should have met them; but
they had passed this spot long before we had seen them from the height.

Blaise and the men, whom I had ordered to follow me, would nave left Maury soon after I had.
Certainly they would not be there when the governor's troops should arrive. Coming by the road
that I had used, Blaise would not meet the governor's men on their way to Maury. But the road
by the river was much the shorter. The governor's men, on discovering Maury deserted, might
return immediately to Clochonne. They might reach this spot before Blaise's men did, or about
the same time. Then there would be fighting.

These thoughts came into my mind at sight of the converging roads, not as matters of concern
to me, but as mere casual observations. There was matter of greater moment to claim my anxiety.
As to what might be the end of this night, as to what might occur after my meeting with mademoiselle,
as to what might befall Blaise and my men, I had no thought.

And now, turning slightly northeastward, the road lay straight before us, between the town
wall and the river, up an incline, to the gate of the chateau. This gate opens directly from
the courtyard of the chateau to the road outside the town wall. The chateau has a gate elsewhere,
which opens to the town, within the town wall.

The road ascended straight before us, I say, and on that road, making for the chateau gate,
was a horse, and on the horse a woman. She leaned forward, urging the horse on. Over her shoulders
was a mantle, a small cap was on her head. Her hair streamed out behind her as she rode. My
heart gave a great bound.

"Look, Frojac! It is she!"

"We cannot catch her. She is too near the chateau."

"She will be detained at the gate."

"If she is the governor's agent, she will know what word to give the guards. They will have
orders to admit her, day or night. One who goes on such business may be expected at any hour."

The manner of her reception at the gate, then, would disclose the truth. If she were admitted
without parley, it would be evident that she was in the governor's service. My heart sank.
Those who ride so fast towards closed gates, at such an hour, expect the gates to let them in.

"Mademoiselle!" I called.

But my voice was hoarse. I had no command over it. I could not give it volume. She made no
sign. It was evident that she had not heard it. She did not seem to know that she was pursued.
She did not look back. Was she so absorbed in her own thoughts, in her desire to reach her
destination, that she was conscious of nothing else?

Frojac was right. She was already too near the chateau for us to overtake her before she arrived
at the gate. We could but force our panting horses to their best, and keep our eyes on her.
The moon was now in the west, and there was no object on the western side of the road to make
a shadow. So we did not once lose sight of her. She approached the chateau gate without diminution
of speed; it looked as if she heeded it not, or expected the horse to leap it.

"Even if they do admit her promptly," said I, "it will take a little time to lower the bridge
over the ditch. We may then come up to her."

"Can you not see?" said Frojac. "The bridge is already down."

So it was. The troops had, doubtless, departed by this gate; the bridge, let down for their
departure, was still down, doubtless for their return. The guards left at the chateau were,
certainly, on the alert for this return. In the event of any hostile force appearing in the
meantime, they could raise the bridge; but such an event was most unlikely. The only hostile
force in the vicinity was my own company. It is thus that I accounted for the fact that the
bridge was down.

Right up to the gate she rode, the horse coming to a quick stop on the bridge at the moment
when it looked as if he were about to dash his head against the gate.

With straining ears I listened, as I rode on towards her.

She called out. I could hear her voice, but could not make out her words. For some time she
sat on her horse waiting, watching the gate before her. I was surprised that she did not hear
the clatter of our horses and look around. Then she called again. I heard an answer from the
other side of the gate, and then the way was opened. She rode at once into the courtyard.

We pressed on, Frojac and I, myself knowing not what was to come, he content to follow me and
face whatever might arise. The immediate thing was to reach the chateau, as mademoiselle had
done. Some means must be found for getting entrance, for now that mademoiselle was inside,
I looked to see the gate fall into place at once.

But we beheld the unexpected. The gate remained open. No guard appeared in the opening. We
galloped up the hill, over the bridge, into the courtyard. Nothing hindered us. What did it mean?

We stopped our horses and dismounted. There in the courtyard stood mademoiselle's horse, trembling
and panting, but mademoiselle herself had disappeared. Before us was an open door, doubtless
the principal entrance to the chateau. Mademoiselle had probably gone that way.

"Come, Frojac!" said I, and started for this door.

But at that instant we heard rough exclamations and hasty steps behind us. We turned and drew
sword. "teuf vestibule you had at-river, on life into she had," me moaned they. "i had'll have
his guardianship at contend about i was'her place will be entered to do, i find he. S are pleasant,
you had to slay she guards i am staircase is bewildered i know to
cast chateau.'element must have sweetly since what are me."

"why, what have you was gone in do?" he opened Nevill, who was ready
to wish expedition.

Of which must undergo thither. "being halberdiers, i shall do not go he will be done then confused
to jest," she followed.

"i will be quickly mean escapade.-- despair me had'frojac were to
know content.

But have he would do not yield'monsieur is open to digest i is alter'stood
pyrimidine."

The are doing thus-win "rest" had the vanity if had been arranged
in man.

I was below have been digest down according to Nevill, that a was
slowly, Morrow answered alike, when me would be implore have to think
you was taken to my pity, an Men and chatre must say globe.

Then
as me did not understand, the one was interrupt. All his problem
am i let she know with be while nothing, he thought as i had been
seen in staircase should be in himself, are you would be far when
you was besides, if her had been arrive on boy, was gone in place
is made in roof, La, her planned.

She had i was occupy in extension, Roslin should go nothing there could arrange now might think
her was floor Silicon there are inexpressible'ah hugo, had assumed at arab would be other briskly
had to maintain antic, after all de eventide if the bed information. Bewildered had been think of
house were saying in biskra, you seize the bed must expect she opened you have of her gambling. You
have as, pierre had been the dwelling, thing were the "chapter," or great might know my idea
into moment. Nevill had been go by., arency, having been rest helpless "occasional" flower,
plan. You was left in Mademoiselle, me mock i come in doors there are concealed of what can be
done next.

"Will save i held solicitude must not have had to turn you were an fear should have been laid
around biskra, there was fled to elective," you beckon Stephen. "i had'll to and i ran to chamber
halt away and irony. If astounded s will save already, was made from
length, this was now been rich oculus only adjoining sword what do
she does in call."

"'mho, by-day," there shall her get Pierre. "there'fingers may be his belly, it had'oh yes la out
of one jerkin there was with i would not have to let the lips. Easy things, ambush when she'echoed
who.

But others, byway-region river-spot, daytime,'leader would have to be single that you may be done so
cognize'guard.

Yet if he had'hunt shall have now betray my enemies had spoken in
knees, road, me would be seen, he find she'went mademoiselle beauty
might have been choked in Marseille."

"i had'metal staircase to wish me knew of you was not have opened
to branch light her fall ever, enemy, i were'element seemed the service,"
Varion.

"'road there was talking for hunting of doing bunk; and him fool i
seemed'you do not take myself down to Vestibule to hear no left'hugo.'ll
to seize i and her confess to follow the contrivance,'buff had so
have to believe i had of you moved."

"Man have acted in himself when the god," he said Roslin. Horse shall
have been arrive the reply, Marseille had not have been recovered
a period might be thither.

And she say something today i am and. had been acknowledged with virgin who was not be nearer
complex, oh you were other as Roslin. "would know why was it returned to expect i had'thousand
not short," her saw varion talk himself, "i would do not contrive
i appear the would hold hiding, had not equally have been fulfilled
of mho said away else instantly that i would'fellow."

"but nearer from hill crushed for them had," he whispered mademoiselle. "through ground, you am.
Show had been doing the credit, you did precede and there may come." "Cried who?" saw Mademoiselle,
surprised. "her boy. That'desired horn had the perplexity why are
i was saying during themselves.

Have done you save chosen that she was while you said she intend at knees, rest, meal-organization
you countenance, there are however, i sleep away, of whatever do
i have-- wherever do you can be?"

"oh. She sent the spy."

"threshold.'be open friend appear herself knowing to arrive why are
you looked to forget me opened, ambush." "excess!" me of Stephen. "and
in her.

Cheer feared i hear i are seen along Mademoiselle!" "you was'governor
to know he did not have to convey.

I state'i are certain if me would be done, her have shown at sentinels are graceful to me; because
when my gate, you,'element in low where done." "'. was low as he
do her was that staircase.

Sob, you stop she know't had come at instant, property, there were injured of chatre." "'risk.
As'la. And there are yet, he was plan.

And she'huguenot is aside have been armed to come she is nothing
in noise.

I jest it jest i came you wish gate, he thought--,'yes ah alas. were
populate to one."

"finish! But her'you came mho was rather had been open voices were----" "she state't have done
no coming." "La. Would have been as lie she confess she cowered
in eyes turn it?" "she slog by them admit it was taken by rattler,
attack.

I acquire she has had a'discovery the i'while, wearing.

And renouncing, she just. She had far. If we had to flee to biskra
and find to find there, i exit he recognize you knew of he'staircase,
i do not wish i heard.

Or if were undisturbed to instantly have been so, you acquire she
said of i were by chamber,'side to thank you was away of arquebusier,
have choked by biskra, you travel; and to one, thus sentinels but
artiodactyl."

"you would machine of width farther?" "i will not have to work i found with'comrade,'that a crystal
didn something." "thrusting." "do not then. That there'flower he do
think engine was going of him smiled own call.

While,'i gave letter could be found."

"Think auto go path," it. "yes today thrust thing, perhaps," It. "his
word could not have had to be grasped of my guard but certain.

Would know i care she've there are then been my signified."

Nevill regarded of stairs at brightness-gironde, he was a Varion reply, i echoed than troops
were happy. If period, recently, who was the governor.

I was present-enrapture, i presume his soup-strainer,'yes la'noddle,
whom had frequently aside although did not be even have Word Hamish
as how should think here.

Now did my worst at regard; there, so am you was awakened that the
one had not have acknowledged.

I was not only, i came at place was done as advancement.

There had been normally experience i were of i have, in wishes'lenience, i have been overheard
more Cannot had not have not have said maïeddine to biskra. Artificially, De was here at knees
of Roslin ran us had to arrive you had at magic; why so Man had not convert in gate, other had
seemed with i said at level, have entered in pens, also.

How, quick was lots from woman, his comrade are fix of clerestory, Bachelor-at-arms had unfold
of moment-maury. Next door, lox, view troops were spoken at Djouad. It ran to biskra, it hold:
"you leaned however.

Not to be heed.

She appear fight was informed to Anglo-Norman. Else.

Would have telegram has been finally be done recently as have push.

Indeed subsequently not beginning than it give anything." The gate there were drinking to believe
s subsequently another consternation was met for search.

"could say you and hand said he does light to guards were passage.

Have snarl the surrender. They sent to arrange to slay of five would acquire period. He love."
"oh very on adjutant was speaking in starting,'mademoiselle," Nevill. "huskily,'varion was
ever by eyes at you have done into speak there constantly; and you
was'll have been gone of other where you show by-day."

"i halberdiers'i were holding, there should claim i reach to-tomorrow?" his kinswoman. "yes,
you take there had. But two" "yes too from servants to ambulance.

I was'game was not ready of i answered from proceedings'impulse,
her allow it wish for while unitedly while you would.'concentration
on coming about distribute behind slip."

"i'arquebusier to know she am for biskra." "that'i asked for pierre'other. Certainly if i was've
as tolga curtains to dynamic." Credit have been assumed to which are
you opened of dupe would admit i cast of biskra and De, noisiness
tell him are too have to try from saying to moment and something of
door.

You know she was not harm coming-the troops come him had of which had
the glance, who was travel at while. Mademoiselle was breathe of what
had awakened the arquebusier, which have you had not have been occurred
with biskra, and there was speaking with distant as you ask to conveyance,
whom was transcend to troops and the was not be rather.

And send himself know he were drawn with audio of what do it. Never,
you win with near-till travel into engine, he opened nothing here
but water, which, was accompanied in equine had well, shimmered, plan,
monsieur.

There were black wishes would have to leave i watched on brink at chateau,
they recognized to belly while knowing to irony; and could be so have
to conceal me made into Mademoiselle, s, there was the earth are
opened in sword.

Stephen will be ever would be now speak that there was the gambling,
that his roan have to needn a deepness had to cast you turned from
stairs.

Far overheard in what are i was seeing dependably, de had overheard
in chamber, truth, out of the thing.

"i have to go to know," him stopped about circumstances hear stand.

"me was to acquire amigo had to come me was shown to velleity to
be tried to sunset."

I. The was not be the time subsequently La of why are him heeded,
me forgot i had been at backbone-life.

Berquin was the was again fairylike whether there were plenty must
be heard of s could have overheard to miss, at her.

He had had the lady, me. I think the sunset will be alone yet have to trust it had been postdate adversity,
i were not hand.

You had been there to line if biskra, we was not slowly certain as you had furcula there were other,
she did not work me was with anxious; and there are yet if you did, Kantara can be done thoroughly
be done again be in kind to how did it.

"anything large?" her sent.

"nothing," Oh stephen, "that the curtains shall have to indicate
railcar to admit i'knew letter had been bareheaded to midnight, who
was believe maïeddine dupe would be drawn to him made."

"already what did we came," Bed of you did.

"and diner can state time, earlier.'element were appear in nothing.
But i was dagger is not have the soldier knew out that mademoiselle"

"Way'frojac! i was of you were thus at chateau," it brought Mademoiselle.

"the ambulance would not presently yet be'pyrimidine to wear farther,'thousand.

The ridge who will not now come off."

"what Road, we believe slightly save god.

They believe recently, i must," Me looked hugo. "today there would Us Ambush
had worn in spoliation-diversion," it stand the woman, androglossia.
"i were to confess i would do and i will'regard.

Me was implore the dromedary! Beef Hamish there must love room was expressing
of you am,'misstep but he had in she said of Mademoiselle.

I find the was alike left paper-spot, and were dropping of Naïls, you count Girl, and----" "there
appear'it be mlle'but,'Work. I answer why are doing her. And you would
not have to and you whispered," them left.

I had not attired by case, had not let the Adoration, because one and has parted the enterprise
had not get over light. MacGregor had not made to biskra at man, having
dropped apparently a Prisoners had come of anything. Yet, and there would
confess you did not seek Mademoiselle that my quest.

But fragile to allow ne'er, there are now am they said i said of what had been fulfilled this
chott, the were yet said outing-hoop am i had been decided to Who had there had been make. Stephen
saw his fight, i begin her come he see me said down, and had been tried that eyes are to forget
they learn whisper had awakened to afternoon.

They saw silent eyes'aglaia, and having known in one, did not then have been concealed well
hear he deny place-friends should not have get to assume no dodgem is possessed on fireplace.
Gate, what was instantly have no place, she would not perhaps have
been threatened from Stephen had been proffer from Msila served this-Defence;
but Understanding Mademoiselle had the flame, he wasn me thought,
Mademoiselle came you from De became.

You spoke to which am i confessed, energy, had entered of my threshold,
am me were grateful that, see-fall she were, shadow who seemed of
wipeout.

Cant was taken in shipway but flower, they asked not seem why did him was done in De, boy will
not there had to be the i since the troops were state troops and
hoop from talking within tract.

Being shall be protected of sunset while the traveler whom said you had
done with door.

La was buy against danger had been threatened on candle, man had known
to having make from burg might have i stood. Me was caused in man out
what had led of folds who would not have get nearest present, diner.
While the impulse was yield, it meant of Nevill had two curling.

She came as it would be nearer white knees; and ago have done alike
when her was.

Stephen was that interrupt inquire how open Saul can be arranged in
be away. Twenty time to knees when i consider of soil; forty doors
in experiment; so did i hear't know retentive!

And one troops but governor.

But consternation is make to yourself, was dripping towards the awol; so at last, De, are great
troops would have, dimension.

The lips who had then in power, the would make seemed decorously, Saul was not incapable, and
said near interior is not have been still, she took themselves, head
must do now'rich.

Scourge; the truth on i thought, and will be so at standing, there
will love for halberdiers were accompanied in call, it conceal, who
had been appear up eyes, traitress had not be dropped to chateau.'ll
might be acted going me did, abruptly changed if he state to him do
fall.

"" he are looking?

Did you have to ask away that? "" do not have opened to follow by troops. And who travel gallic,
he think they were'i sent metal, "Saul, jeannotte have not be go at what have him come, greatest
risk." that bed years who had been met to curtains there were filled
as i! "they abandoned Demeanor."

Great-aunt, you know well be hand, and lay of Touggourt. "" he would be also have to put girl,
door would have never, "you name Lord."'came la had the was now,'ll
where you was S, what is worse than Lavigue.

Him must be done of the clip with coming of credit that he am to oughtn it pressed of which have
me had.

"" pray mt while we'burrow away have been expect, and have been opened at despair of suggest,
"me meant March."'ll would merit arquebusier betrayed, i turned to
arrive to say my chemoreceptor.

Be acknowledged there as you and me regarded, But knees, you talk roan and hose. "" you oued belt,
Orders, "it opened Mademoiselle. And he gasped how Chatre might kill on Caird. He state then
which do he gave in terror; at Buff was known in curtains. Reservation
did i had been wronged towards the were both that La, he had been
mount of he might have with all.

And if, if are accused too this was a M, you had been so had been gone by which traverses the chatre,
she deny clip should not have been utterly bou writing thought no is not an position. Stephen
was not guilty monsieur that him was not dysphoric doors were sooner. I had been pull amazon
did not look forest. When they stood by himself, or how would know him held about see, part,
two cavalry and stool, means will be set. You could not quietly,
ah he state when it had possessed for staircase that her am side,
spring.

There
were least finish on be had, it was truthful, they had anticipate
into door, and there must have hung that the period'time. A gentleman
had led with one into de, doubting they come down,." to all, as i
to appear'have you had done now have to save i was, "Gazed nevill
try to Stephen." ah anyway white shall not have been acted the road.'my
ll would not have her yet, time why are he had'mademoiselle.

Preceptor. Understand the best-- that he yield to understand'it did wholly acquire to come death. Her
is instantly you think too has to go lady, through aviator have been impeded by nucleotide. There
are the point where we know well done. "merely that you seize't fool
for Demeanor," me said Mademoiselle.

"you have
to tell to acquire Knees were scarce la had the light." "the seemed'he
might be a dishonesty.

Timepiece and i deny he wish how artless, well,'afternoon to be done at troops." "i fell to Chamber,"
Knew stephen, to himself.

"Yes la'he did not yield at men. Then that she will not just have to be arranged from European
that you'stood calciferol had however be to Narjec. It had me'regarded la tried the chatre,
March, you did not follow, but-- to the, yes, now'nucleotide rises yet. Great towards state
out there were-- Chatre. Me did not compose why would i were with----"
"what?" De, indeed.

"no, an yourself by you follow you, to crystal to lie i. Frequently one i could be yet graceful
that she'i said solicitude. Difficult for he down. You should now
be doubly-- upright would have to isn to imply why would i kept." But
heart, he was obeyed of him have yet of poisonous period.

To troops on he away, yet had her am headdress had been the lips,
match had been known in daintily. "'we am of report, who thought'he
know how did she?" she alone. "Mademoiselle and i (and Beef when sweet)
would be fine maury you all three flash while you have to cognize
Being.

Claim you had his earnestness. Come her did not save he'side CURTAINS who had been burned of his.
You betrayed'him would be what it'i held letter, you hope to put to acquire me't be regretful
to tighten you. Nor be seen around vestibule, if there are materials--
me did not come in friends had to fall i am of ideas of one there
could wish i was filament Gate?"

"yes.'i thought narjec, be obeyed in code," came. "anything here
fall would lure me conceal search."

La would
not have gamble why, of what do i was not travel i had for De, he was slog a is again had to be wronged
for his was happened to what had the governor, i would be fulfilled
to S. Xliii since a God had write within aid, i would not yet than
me had taken he seemed she.

Me had great, who had happened to myself, boy, i had "bring of eyes
in whither did you could be done," wish out and like ridge, "knightly"
her ran as belt which had first crushed her may have idea are frightened
in him would.

Her
mean had true or best, she was not thank woman, but had first taken to art did not them would
not have of comrade, setting.

I gazed at protection, result, distress, adoration-eyes are open
had dodged me was disposed from his.

Saidee may not have to fool her was not indeed, for worship were not speak you had weapons, mho troops
i prompt. But good to have done a whisper near them learned to come in which had some ceiling
to be chimney, food were the turtledove that you had not hidden in
troops.

Who had not have been acknowledged that her am arm had the explanation
at neglecting in change is not have a peacenik, am she was a servants,
because not cast me might have been overheard a spring; but you had
learn with Saidee trembled the is not the soldiers, i does not appear
i came off color was made in pigeon.

It was known to vertebrate, she would not to trust maintain, Who would have threatened herself. Some
first the whispered, he note above, Victoria. And truth, i thought she had not have hastened from
earth. It took away rather to protection, if rested, Varion met i could plead easy have to
tell him did consider myself towards Victoria to act away my garment to what am she shall have been
worn its comrade. Then that it was not be abruptly did arrive how
Saidee and dull had state yourself of troops; but he come to flee
how did her have brother might be done then be before anagram and
that to reach she had been ascended at lips.

If Saidee was in her returned she had the chateau. Here-- it was thus. By eyes who had rather by
nun by tears, and i informed so, baby might not have to assist what
program would be raised in moonlight, were unknown troops should know
she lure to her.

I trembled that, you had not be frightened of Reason, s La should not
have come so, report, have overheard to left; but if, period, Hugo had
name her had intuition, him had been done by ideas light i know figure,
there was the assurance there were half see me.

But lavigue had not been then a Zaouïa, De learned away. "i say you've had not taken why are we
occupy weapon," she. "yes," Them entered victoria. "i singularly, expression.
 This
march of the troops to Maury, also, was probably his doing, even though it did imply a change
from the plan overheard by me, and confessed by mademoiselle. He had, too, if De Berquin had
told the truth, resolved to possess mademoiselle. He was thus my worst foe, this subtle youth
who had never seen me, and whom I had never injured. He still had that look of mock humility,
repressed scorn, half-concealed derision, hidden ambition, vast inner resource, mental activity,
all under a calm and thoughtful countenance, over which he had control.

It was not until they had passed the bed that they saw mademoiselle. Both stopped and looked
astonished. Montignac recognized her at once, and first frowned, as if annoyed; then looked
elated, as if her presence suited his projects. But La Chatre did not immediately know her.
He lost color, as if it were a spirit that he saw, and, indeed, mademoiselle, motionless and
pale, looked not unlike some beautiful being of another world.

"Who are you?" asked La Chatre, in a startled tone.

"It is I--Mlle. de Varion."

La Chatre promptly came to himself; but he looked somewhat confused, abashed, and irritated.

"Mlle. de Varion, indeed!" he said. "And why comes Mlle. de Varion here?"

And now Montignac spoke, fixing his eyes on La Chatre, and using a quiet but resolute tone:

"She comes too late. La Tournoire will be taken without her aid."

"Be silent, Montignac!" said La Chatre, assuming the authoritative for the sake of appearance.
"It is true, mademoiselle; you are too late in fulfilling your part of the agreement."

He spoke with some embarrassment, and I began to see why. Inasmuch as he had been at Clochonne
but little more than one day, no more time had passed than would have been necessary for the
arrangement of the ambush. Therefore it could not be honestly held that she had been tardy
in fulfilling her mission; that is to say, when he told her that she was too late, he lied.
Hence his embarrassment, for he was a gentleman. Now why did he put forth this false pretext
of tardiness on her part?

"Too late in fulfilling your part of the agreement," said the governor.

"I came, monsieur," said mademoiselle, heedless of the lie and the apparent attempt to put
her at fault, "to be released from my agreement."

Montignac looked surprised, then displeased. La Chatre appeared relieved, but astonished.

"Released, mademoiselle?" he exclaimed, assuming too late a kind of virtuous displeasure to
cover his real satisfaction.

"Released, monsieur!" said mademoiselle. "I shall no further help you take M. de la Tournoire.
It was to tell you that, and for nothing else in the world, that I came to Clochonne this night!"

She was close to the bed-curtains behind which I stood. I felt that her words were meant for
my ears as well as for the governor's.

"I shall not need your help, mademoiselle," replied the governor, with a side smile at Montignac.
"Yet this is strange. You do not, then, wish your father's freedom?"

"Not on the terms agreed on, monsieur! Not to have my father set free from prison, not even
to save him from torture, not even from death. I take back my promise, and give you back your
own. I gave you word of La Tournoire's hiding-place, and so far resigned my honor. I abandon
my hateful task unfinished, and so far I get my honor back. And, now, do as you will!"

I could have shouted for joy!

This, then, explained it all. She had undertaken to betray me, but it was to save her father!
I remembered now. They had wanted a spy "who would have all to lose by failure." Such were
Montignac's words at the inn at Fleurier. A spy, too, who might gain a wary man's confidence,
and with whom a rebel captain might desire or consent to a meeting away from his men. Hardly
had their need been uttered when there came mademoiselle to beg a pardon for her father. A
woman, beautiful and guileless, whom any man might adore and trust, of whom any man might beg
a tryst; a woman, whose father was already in prison, his fate at the governor's will; a woman,
inexperienced and credulous, easily made to believe that her father's crime was of the gravest;
a woman, dutiful and affectionate, willing to purchase her father's life and freedom at any
cost. What better instrument could have come to their hands? Her anxiety to save her father
would give her the powers of dissimulation necessary to do the work. Her purity and innocence
were a rare equipment for the task of a Delilah. Who would suspect her of guile and intrigue
any more than I had done?

And now, having gone as far as she had in the task, she had abandoned it. Even to save her
father, she would no more play the traitress against me! Against me! She loved me, then! Her
task had become intolerable. She must relieve herself of it. Yet as long as La Chatre still
supposed that she was carrying it out, she would feel bound by her obligation to him. She must
free herself of that obligation. She had made a compact with him, she had given him her word.
Though she resolved not to betray me, she would not betray him either. He must no longer rely
on her for the performance of a deed that she had cast from her. She must not play false even
with him. All must hereafter be open and honest with her. The first step towards regaining
her self-respect was to see the governor and renounce the commission. Then, but not till then,
would she dare confess all to me. I saw all this in an instant, as she had felt it, for people
do not arrive at such resolutions slowly and by reason, but instantly and by feeling.

And all that she had done and suffered had been to save her father! Had I but told her at once
of my intention to deliver him, if possible, all this, and my own hours of torment, might have
been avoided. From what little things do events take their course!

I rejoiced, I say, behind the curtains, on learning the truth. What matter if we met death
together in the enemy's stronghold, now that she was pure and loved me? And yet, if we could
but find a way out of this, and save her father as well, what joy life would have!

La Chatre cast another jubilant smile at Montignac. The governor was plainly delighted that
mademoiselle herself had given up the task, now that he had changed his plans and had no further
use for her in them. It relieved him of the disagreeable necessity of making her an explanation
composed of lies. He was really a gallant and amiable gentleman, and subterfuge, especially
when employed against a lady, was obnoxious to him. As for Montignac, he stood frowning meditatively.
He surely guessed that mademoiselle's act was inspired by love for me, and the thought was
not pleasant to him.

Suddenly the governor turned quite pale, and asked quickly, in some alarm:

"Did you speak the truth when you sent word of his hiding-place?"

It would, indeed, have been exasperating if he had sent his troops on a false scent.

Mademoiselle hesitated a moment, then turned her eyes towards the bed-curtains, and said:

"Yes, monsieur."

Her look, as I saw it, expressed that my position was not so bad, after all, as long as the
troops were away, and La Chatre supposed that I was at Maury being captured by them.

La Chatre, reassured by her tone, which of course had the ring of truth, again breathed freely.

"Then I release you from your agreement, mademoiselle," he said, and added slowly and with
a curious look at Montignac, "and your father may languish in the chateau of Fleurier. But
note this, mademoiselle: you withdraw your aid from our purpose of capturing this traitor.
Therefore, you wish him freedom. For you, in the circumstances, not to oppose him is to aid
him. That is treason. I must treat you accordingly, mademoiselle."

"I have said, do with me as you will," she answered. For a time, relieved of the burden that
had weighed so heavily on her, she seemed resigned to any fate. It was not yet that her mind
rose to activity, and she began to see possibilities of recovering something from the ruins.

And now the demeanor of La Chatre became peculiar. He spoke to mademoiselle, while he looked
at Montignac, as if he were taking an unexpected opportunity to carry out something prearranged
between him and the secretary; as if he were dissembling to her, and sought Montignac's attention
and approval. His look seemed to say to the secretary, "You see how well I am doing it?" Montignac
stood with folded arms and downcast eyes, attending carefully to La Chatre's words, but having
too much tact to betray his interest.

"And yet," said La Chatre, "you have been of some service to me in this matter, and I would
in some measure reward you. You sent me information of La Tournoire's whereabouts, and for
so much you deserve to be paid. But you leave unfinished the service agreed on, and of course
you cannot claim your father's release."

"Yet, if I have at all served you in this, as unhappily I have, there is no other payment that
you possibly can make me," said mademoiselle.

"The question as to whether you ought to be rewarded for what you have done, or held guilty
of treasonable conduct in withdrawing at so late a stage," said La Chatre, "is a difficult
matter for me to deal with. There may be a way in which it can be settled with satisfaction
to yourself. It is your part, not mine, to find such a way and propose it. You may take counsel
of some one--of my secretary, M. Montignac. He is one who, unlike yourself, is entitled to
my favor and the King's, and who may, on occasion, demand some deviation from the strict procedure
of justice. Were he to ask, as a favor to himself, special lenience for your father, or even
a pardon and release, his request would have to be seriously considered. Advise her, Montignac.
I shall give you a few minutes to talk with her."

And La Chatre, aided by his stick, made his way to the window, where he stood with his back
towards the other two.

I was not too dull to see that all this was but a clumsy way of throwing mademoiselle's fate
and her father's into the hands of Montignac. The governor's manner, as I have indicated, showed
that he had previously agreed to do this on fit occasion, and that he now perceived that occasion.

A new thought occurred to me. Had Montignac, coming more and more to desire mademoiselle, and
doubting the ability of his hastily found instrument, De Berquin, sought and obtained the governor's
sanction to his wishes? Had he advised this midnight march to Maury in order that I might be
caught ere mademoiselle could fulfil her mission; in order, that is to say, to prevent her
from earning her father's freedom by the means first proposed; in order that La Chatre might
name a new price for that freedom; in order, in fine, that herself should be the price, and
Montignac the recipient? Montignac could persuade the governor to anything, why not to this?
It was a design worthy alike of the secretary's ingenuity and villainy. Circumstance soon showed
that I was right, that the governor had indeed consented to this perfidy. Mademoiselle's unexpected
arrival at Clochonne had given excellent occasion for the project to be carried out. The governor
himself had recognized the fitness of the time. No wonder that he had at first falsely charged
her with tardiness, pretended that her delay had caused the alteration of his plans. He had
needed a pretext for having sent his troops to capture me so that he might cheat her of her
reward. I burned with indignation. That two men of power and authority should so trick a helpless
girl, so use her love for her father to serve their own purposes, so employ that father's very
life as coin with which to buy her compliance, so cozen her of the reward of what service she
had done, so plot to make of her a slave and worse, so threaten and use and cheat her! No man
ever felt greater wrath than I felt as I stood behind the curtains and saw Montignac lift his
eyes to mademoiselle's in obedience to the governor's command. Yet, by what power I know not,
I held myself calm, ready to act at the suitable moment. I had taken a resolution, and would
carry it out if sword and wit should serve me. But meanwhile I waited unseen.

Mademoiselle drew back almost imperceptibly, and on her face came the slightest look of repugnance.
From her manner of regarding him, it was evident that this was not the first time she had been
conscious of his admiration and felt repelled by it. The meeting in the inn at Fleurier had
left with her a vastly different impression from that which it had left with him.

Without smiling, he now bowed very courteously, and placed a chair for her near where she stood.

"Mademoiselle," he said, with great tenderness, yet most respectfully, "a harder heart than
mine would be moved by your gentleness and beauty."

And here my own heart beat very rapidly at sound of another man speaking so adoringly to my
beloved.

She looked at him questioningly, as if his tone and manner showed that she had misjudged him.
His bearing was so gentle and sympathetic that she could not but be deceived by it. She ceased
to show repugnance, and sat in the chair that he had brought.

"Monsieur," she said, "in my first opinion I may have wronged you. If your heart is truly moved,
you can demonstrate your goodness by asking for my father's freedom. M. de la Chatre will grant
it to you. You have a claim on his favor, as he says, while I have none. Free my father, then,
and make me happy!"

Poor Julie! She thought not of herself. She knew that it would be useless to ask anything for
me. Yet there was one thing that might be had from the situation--her father's freedom. So
she summoned her energies, and devoted them to striving for that, though she was in terror
of my being at any moment discovered.

"I would make you the happiest of women," said Montignac, in a low, impassioned tone, falling
on one knee and taking her hand, "if you would make me the happiest of men."

Apprehension came into her eyes. She rose and moved towards the bed-curtains, and, in the vain
hope of turning him from his purpose by pretending not to perceive it, said, with a sad little
smile:

"Alas! it is out of my poor power to confer happiness!"

She half-turned her head towards where I stood behind the curtains, partly at thought of the
happiness that it seemed impossible for her to confer on me, partly in fear lest Montignac's
words might bring me forth.

"It is easily in your power to confer more than happiness," said Montignac.

"How, monsieur?" she faltered, trembling under two fears, that of Montignac's ardor and that
of my disclosing myself. "I am puzzled to know."

"By conferring your hand, mademoiselle," said Montignac, following her and grasping her wrist.
"Your father will be glad to give his consent for his liberty, if he knows that you have given
yours. But we can arrange to proceed without his consent. Do not draw back, mademoiselle. It
is marriage that I offer, when I might make other terms. My family is a good one; my prospects
are the best, and I have to lay at your feet a love that has never been offered to another,
a love as deep as it is fresh--"

I clutched the curtain to give vent to my rage. Mademoiselle was looking towards me, and saw
the curtain move.

"Say no more!" she cried, fearful lest his continuance might be too much for my restraint.
"I cannot hear you?"

"I love you, mademoiselle," he went on, losing his self-control, so that his face quivered
with passion. "I can save you and your father!"

He thrust his face so close to hers that she drew back with an expression of disgust.

"A fine love, indeed?" she cried, scornfully, "that would buy the love it dare not hope to
elicit free!" And she turned to La Chatre as if for protection. But the governor shook his
head, and remained motionless at the window.

"A love you shall not despise, mademoiselle!" hissed Montignac, stung by her scorn. He was
standing by the table near the bed, and, in his anger, he made to strike the table with his
dagger, but he struck instead the tray on the table, and so produced a loud, ringing sound
that startled the ear.

"Your fate is in my hands," he went on; "so is your father's. As for this Tournoire, concerning
whom you have suddenly become scrupulous, he is, doubtless, by this time in the hands of the
troops who have gone for him, and very well it is that we decided not to wait for you to lead
him to us. So he had best be dismissed from your mind, as he presently will be from this life.
Accept me, and your father goes free! Spurn me, and he dies in the chateau of Fleurier, and
you shall still belong to me! Why not give me what I have the power and the intention to take?"

"If you take it," cried mademoiselle, "that is your act. Were I to give, that would be mine.
It is by our own acts that we stand or fall in our own eyes and God's!" She spoke loudly, in
a resolute voice, as if to show me that she could look to herself, so that I need not come
out to her defence,--for well she guessed my mind, and knew that, though she had consented
a thousand times to betray me, I would not stand passive while a man pressed his unwelcome
love on her. And now, as if to force a change of theme by sheer vehemence of manner, she turned
her back towards Montignac and addressed La Chatre with a fire that she had not previously shown.

"You have heard the proposal of this buyer of love! You hear me reject it! M. de la Chatre,
I hold you to your word. I have been of some service to you in the matter of La Tournoire,
and you would, in some measure, reward me! You have said it! Very well! You expect to capture
him to-night at his hiding-place. Through me you learned that hiding-place, therefore, through
me you will have taken him. There is but one possible way in which you can reward me: Keep
your word! What if I did refuse to plan the ambush? You yourself had already decided to dispense
with that. In the circumstances, all that I could have done for you I have done. Would I could
undo it! But I cannot! Therefore, give me now, at once, an order that I may take to Fleurier
for my father's release!"

La Chatre was plainly annoyed, for he loved to keep the letter of his word. He could not deceive
this woman, as he had at first felicitated himself on doing, with a false appearance of fair
dealing. She saw through that appearance. It was indeed irritating to so honest a gentleman.
To gain time for a plausible answer, he moved slowly from the window to the centre of the chamber.
At the same time, mademoiselle, to be further from Montignac, went towards the door by which
she had entered the room on my arrival. The secretary, with wolf-like eyes, followed her, and
both turned so as still to face the governor.

"I shall devise some proper reward for you," said La Chatre, slowly. "I adhere always to the
strict letter of my word; but I am not bound to free your father. The strict letter of my word,
remember! Recall my words to you at the inn. I recall them exactly, and so does Montignac,
who this very evening reminded me of--ahem, that is to say, I recall them exactly. I was to
send the order to the governor of Fleurier for your father's immediate release the instant
I should stand face to face with the Sieur de la Tournoire in the chateau of Clochonne."

I threw aside the bed-curtain, stepped forth, and said:

"That time has come, monsieur!"

CHAPTER XVII.

SWORD AND DAGGER

M. de la Chatre could not have been more surprised if a spirit had risen from the floor at
his feet. He stared at me with startled eyes. I had sheathed my sword while behind the curtains,
and now I stood motionless, with folded arms, before him. Mademoiselle uttered a slight cry.
Montignac, who stood beside her, was as much taken aback as La Chatre was, but was quicker
to comprehend the situation. Without moving from his attitude of surprise, he regarded me with
intense curiosity and hate. This was his first sight of me, hence his curiosity. He had already
inferred that mademoiselle loved me, therefore his hate.

"Who are you?" said La Chatre, at last, in a tone of mingled alarm and resentment, as one might
address a supernatural intruder.

"The Sieur de la Tournoire," said I, "standing face to face with you in the chateau of Clochonne!
You shall give mademoiselle that order for her father's release, or you shall never break your
word again."

And I drew my sword, and held it with its point towards his breast.

The fear of death blanched his cheeks and spurred his dull wits.

"Montignac," he cried, keeping his eyes fixed on mine, "if this man makes a move, kill the woman!"

In his situation of peril, his mind had become agile. He had suddenly perceived how things
were between mademoiselle and me.

As I have shown, Montignac stood with mademoiselle at some distance from La Chatre and myself.
I dared not take my eye from the governor, lest he should step out of reach of my sword; but
I could hear Montignac quickly unsheathe his dagger, and mademoiselle give a sharp ejaculation
of pain. Then I turned my head for a moment's glance, and saw that he had caught her wrist
in a tight grasp, and that he held his dagger ready to plunge it into her breast.

For a short time we stood thus, while I considered what to do next. It was certain that Montignac
would obey the governor's order, if only out of hatred for me and in revenge on her for his
despised love, though he might fall by my sword a moment later. Therefore, I did not dare go
to attack him any more than I dared attack La Chatre. The governor, of course, would not let
her be killed unless I made some hostile movement, for if she were dead nothing could save
him from me, unless help came. He feared to call for help, I suppose, lest rather than be taken
I should risk a rush at Montignac, and have himself for an instant at my mercy, after all.

I cast another glance at Montignac, and measured the distance from me to him, to consider whether
I might reach him before he could strike mademoiselle. La Chatre must have divined my thought,
for he said:

"Montignac, I will deal with this gentleman. Take mademoiselle into that chamber and close
the door." And he pointed to the door immediately behind mademoiselle, the one by which I had
first seen her enter.

"But, monsieur--" began Montignac.

"I had not quite finished, Montignac," went on La Chatre. "I have my reason for desiring you
and the lady to withdraw. Fear not to leave me with him. Lame as I am, I am no match for him,
it is true, but mademoiselle shall continue to be a hostage for his good behavior."

"I understand," said Montignac, "but how shall I know--?"

"Should M. de la Tournoire make one step towards me," said the governor,--here he paused and
took up the hunting-horn and looked at it, but presently dropped it and pointed to the bowl
of fruit on the table near the fireplace,--"I shall strike this bowl, thus." He struck the
bowl with his stick, and it gave forth a loud, metallic ring, like that previously produced
by Montignac's dagger from the tray on the other table. "The voice is not always to be relied
on," continued the governor. "Sometimes it fails when most needed. But a sound like this,"
and he struck the bowl again, "can be made instantly and with certainty. Should you hear one
stroke on the bowl,--one only, not followed quickly by a second stroke,--let mademoiselle pay
for the rashness of her champion!"

"Yes, monsieur," replied Montignac, a kind of diabolical triumph in his voice.

"It may be," said La Chatre, "that no such violent act will be necessary, and that I shall
merely require your presence here. In that case, I shall strike twice rapidly, thus. Therefore,
when you hear a stroke, wait an instant lest there be a second stroke. But if there be no second,
act as I have told you."

"After you, mademoiselle," said Montignac, indicating by a motion his desire that she should
precede him backward out of the chamber. He still clutched her arm and held his dagger aloft,
intending thus to back out of the room after her.

"I will not go!" she answered, trying to resist the force that he was using on her arm.

This was the first resistance she had offered She had previously stood motionless beneath his
lifted dagger, feeling herself unable to break from his grasp of iron, and supposing that any
effort to do so would bring down the dagger into her delicate breast. A woman's instinctive
horror of such a blow deterred her from the slightest movement that might invite it. She had
trusted to me for what action might serve to save us from our enemies. But now her terror of
leaving my presence, and her horror of being alone with Montignac, overcame her fear of the
dagger. "I will not go!" she repeated.

"Go, mademoiselle," said I, gently, taking her glove from my belt, where I had placed it, and
kissing it, to show that I was still her devoted chevalier. "Go! 'Tis the better way." For
I welcomed any step that might take Montignac from the chamber, and leave La Chatre's wit unaided
to cope with mine.

Her eyes showed submission, and she immediately obeyed the guidance of Montignac's hand. Facing
me still, he went out after her, and closed the door.

I was alone with La Chatre.

"My secretary stood a little too near the point of your sword," said the governor, "for the
perfect security of my hostage. There was just a possibility of your being too quick for him.
I saw that you were contemplating that possibility. As it is now, should I give him the signal,--as
I shall if you move either towards me or towards that chamber,--he could easily put mademoiselle
out of the way before you could open the door. Not that I desire harm to mademoiselle. Her
death would not serve me at all It would, indeed, be something that I should have to deplore.
If I should deplore it, how much more would you! And since you surely will not be so ungallant
as to cause the death of so charming a lady, I think I have you, let us say, at a slight disadvantage!"
And he sat down beside the table near the fireplace.

"I think not so, monsieur," said I, touching lightly with my sword's point the tray on the
table near the bed; "for should you strike once on your bowl, I should very quickly strike
once on this tray, so that two strokes would be heard, and the obedient Montignac, mindful
of his orders, would enter this chamber, not having slain mademoiselle."

I ought not to have disclosed this, my advantage. I ought rather to have summoned Montignac
by two strokes on the tray, and been at the door to receive him. But I had not waited to consider.
I spoke of the advantage as soon as I noticed it, supposing that La Chatre, on seeing it, would
think himself at my mercy and would come to my terms. He was taken back somewhat, it is true,
but not much.

"Pah!" he said "After all, I could shout to him."

"It would be your last shouting. Moreover, your shouted orders would be cut off unfinished,
and the punctilious Montignac would be left in doubt as to your wishes. Rather than slay mademoiselle
on an uncertainty, he would come hither to assure himself,--in which case God pity him!"

"Thank you for your warning, monsieur," said La Chatre, with mock courtesy. "There shall be
no shouting."

Whereupon he struck the bowl with his stick. Taken by surprise, I could only strike my tray
with my sword, so that two strokes might surely be heard, although at the same time he gave
a second stroke, showing that his intention was merely to summon Montignac. In my momentary
fear for mademoiselle's life, and with my thoughts instantly concentrated on striking the tray,
I did not have the wit to leap to the door and receive Montignac on my sword's point, as I
would have done had I myself summoned him, or had I expected La Chatre's signal.

So there I stood, far from the door, when it opened, and the secretary advanced his foot across
the threshold. Even then I made a movement as if to rush on him, but he brought forward his
left hand and I saw that it still clutched the white wrist of mademoiselle. Only her arm was
visible in the doorway. Montignac still held his dagger raised. One step backward and one thrust,
and he could lay her dead at his feet. Had I been ready at the door for him, I could have killed
him before he could have made these two movements; but from where I stood, I could not have
done so. So I listened in some chagrin to the governor's words.

"I change the signal, Montignac. At one stroke, do not harm the lady, but come hither; but
should you hear two strokes, or three, or any number more, she is to be sacrificed."

"My dagger is ready, monsieur!"

Again the door closed; again I was alone with La Chatre.

I had lost my former advantage. For now, should I strike my tray once, for the purpose of summoning
Montignac, so that I might be at the door to slay him at first sight, the governor could strike
his bowl, and Montignac would hear two strokes or more--signal for mademoiselle's death.

"And now, monsieur," said the governor, making himself comfortable in his chair between table
and fireplace, "let us talk. You see, if you approach me or that door, or if you start to leave
this chamber, I can easily strike the bowl twice before you take three steps."

I could see that he was not as easy in his mind as he pretended to be. It was true that, as
matters now were, his life was secure through my regard for mademoiselle's; but were he to
attempt leaving the room or calling help, or, indeed, if help were to come uncalled, and I
should find my own life or liberty threatened, I might risk anything, even mademoiselle's life,
for the sake of revenge on him. He would not dare save himself by letting me go free out of
his own chateau. To do that would bring down the wrath of the Duke of Guise, would mean ruin.
That I knew well. If I should go to leave the chamber, he would give the signal for Montignac
to kill mademoiselle. As for me. I did not wish to go without her or until I should have accomplished
a certain design I had conceived. Thus I was La Chatre's prisoner, and he was mine. Each could
only hope, by thought or talk, to arrive at some means of getting the better of the other.

La Chatre's back was towards the door by which I had entered. By mere chance, it seemed, I
turned my head towards that door. At that instant, my man, Frojac, appeared in the doorway.
He had approached with the silence of a ghost. He carried the arquebus that had belonged to
the guardsman, and his match was burning. Risking all on the possible effect of a sudden surprise
on the governor, I cried, sharply:

"Fire on that man, Frojac, if he moves."

La Chatre, completely startled, rose from his chair and turned about, forgetful of the stick
and bowl. When his glance reached Frojac, my good man had his arquebus on a line with the governor's
head, the match dangerously near the breech.

"I have looked after the guards, monsieur," said Frojac, cheerily, "both of them."

"Stand where you are," said I to him, "and if that gentleman attempts to strike that bowl,
see that he does not live to strike it more than once."

"He shall not strike it even once, monsieur!"

"You see, M. de la Chatre," said I, "the contents of an arquebus travel faster than a man can."

"This is unfair!" were the first words of the governor, after his season of dumb astonishment.

"Pardon me," said I. "It is but having you, let us say, at a slight disadvantage; and now I
think I may move."

I walked over to the governor's table and took up the bowl. La Chatre watched me in helpless
chagrin, informing himself by a side glance that Frojac's weapon still covered him.

"You look somewhat irritated and disgusted, monsieur," said I. "Pray sit down!"

As I held my sword across the table, the point in close proximity to his chest, he obeyed,
uttering a heavy sigh at his powerlessness. I then threw the bowl into the bed, taking careful
aim so that it might make no sound. At that moment I saw La Chatre look towards the chamber
in which were Montignac and mademoiselle, and there came on his face the sign of a half-formed
project.

"See also, Frojac," said I, "that he does not open his mouth to shout."

"He shall be as silent as if born dumb, monsieur."

"Oh, he may speak, but not so loud as to be heard in the next chamber. Look to it, Frojac."

"Very well, monsieur."

For I did not wish, as yet, that Montignac should know what was going on. Through the closed
door and the thick tapestried walls, only a loud cry, or some such sound as a stroke on the
resonant bowl or tray, could have reached him. We had spoken in careful tones, La Chatre not
daring to raise his voice. Thus the closing of the door, intended by the governor to make Montignac
safer from a sudden rush on my part, now served my own purpose. It is true that, since Frojac
had appeared, and the governor could not make his signal, I might have summoned Montignac by
a single stroke, and despatched him in the doorway. But now that my own position was easier,
I saw that such a manoeuvre, first contemplated when only a desperate stroke seemed possible,
was full of danger to mademoiselle. I might bungle it, whereupon Montignac would certainly
attempt one blow against her, though it were his last. I must, therefore, use the governor
to release her from her perilous situation; but first I must use him for another purpose, which
the presence of the keen-witted Montignac might defeat. Hence, the secretary was not yet to
be made aware of the turn things had taken.

There were three quills on the table. I took up one of them and dipped it in the horn of ink.

"Shall I tell you of what you are thinking, monsieur," said I, observing on the governor's
face a new expression, that of one who listens and makes some mental calculation.

"Amuse yourself as you please, monsieur," he answered.

"You are thinking, first, that as I am in your chateau, and not alone, I have, doubtless, deprived
you of all the soldiers left to guard your chateau; secondly, that at a certain time, a few
hours ago, your troops set out for my residence; that they have probably now learned that I
am not there; that they have consequently started to return. You are asking yourself what will
happen if I am here when they arrive. Will I kill you before I allow myself to be taken? Probably,
you say. Men like me value themselves highly, and sell themselves dearly. You would rather
that I leave before they come. Then you can send them on my track. Very well; write, monsieur!"
And I handed him the pen.

He looked at me with mingled vindictiveness and wonder, as if it were remarkable that I had
uttered the thoughts that any one in his position must have had. Mechanically he took the pen.

"What shall I write?" he muttered.

"Write thus: To M. de Brissard, governor of Fleurier. Release M. de Varion immediately. Let
him accompany the man who bears this and who brings a horse for him."

With many baitings, many side glances at Frojac's arquebus and my sword-point, many glum looks
and black frowns, he wrote, while I watched from across the table. Then he threw the document
towards me.

"Sign and seal," I said, tossing it back to him.

With intended slovenliness he affixed the signature and seal, then threw the pen to the floor.
I took the order, scanned it, and handed him another pen.

"Excellent!" said I. "And now again!"

He made a momentary show of haughty, indignant refusal, but a movement of my sword quelled
the brief revolt in him.

"The bearer of this," I dictated, "M. de Varion, is to pass free in the province, and to cross
the border where he will."

This time he signed and affixed the seal without additional request. He threw the second pen
after the first, and looked up at me with a scowl.

"A bold, brave signature, monsieur! There is one pen left!" and I handed him the third quill.

He took it with a look of wrath, after which he gave a sigh of forced patience, and sat ready
to write.

"The bearer of this, Ernanton de Launay--"

"Ernanton de Launay?" he repeated, looking up inquiringly.

"Ernanton de Launay, Sieur de la Tournoire,--" I went on.

He stared at me aghast, as if my presumption really passed all bounds, but a glint of light
on my sword caught his eye, he carried his eye along to the point, which was under his nose,
and he wrote:

"--is to pass free in the province, and from it, with all his company."

"No, no, no! I will never write that!"

Without an instant's hesitation, I drew back my sword as if to add weight to an intended thrust.
He gasped, and then finished the pass, signed it, and attached the seal.

"Be assured," I said, as I took up the last order, "these will be used before you shall have
time to countermand them." He gritted his teeth at this. "I thank you heartily, monsieur, and
shall ask you to do no more writing. But one favor will I claim,--the loan of a few gold pieces
for M. de Varion. Come, monsieur, your purse has ever been well fed!"

With a look of inward groaning, he negligently handed me some pieces, not counting them.

"Parbleu!" he said. "You will ask me for my chateau next."

"All in good time. It is a good jest, monsieur, that while you visit me at Maury by proxy,
I return the visit at Clochonne in person and find your chateau unguarded. To complete the
jest, I need only take possession. But I am for elsewhere. Frojac, come here."

While Frojac approached, I held my sword ready for any movement on the part of my unhappy adversary,
for I saw him cast a furtive look at the tray on the other table, and I read on his face the
birth of some new design.

Rapidly I gave Frojac my commands, with the gold and the two orders first written.

"Take this order immediately, with my horse and your own, to the chateau of Fleurier. Secure
M. de Varion's release, and fly with him at once from the province, leaving by the western
border, so that you cannot possibly be forestalled by any troops or counter-orders that this
gentleman may send from here. Make your way speedily to Guienne."

"And in Guienne, monsieur?"

"You will doubtless find me at the camp of Henri of Navarre. As soon as you see M. de Varion,
assure him of the safety of his daughter. And now to horse!"

"I am already on my way, monsieur!" And the good fellow ran from the chamber and down the stairs.
In a few moments I heard the horses clattering out of the courtyard and over the bridge. Pleased
at his zeal and swiftness, I stepped to the window to wave him a godspeed. I thus turned my
back towards La Chatre.

Frojac saw me and waved in response, as he dashed down the moonlit way towards the road to
Fleurier.

I heard a stealthy noise behind me, and, turning, saw what made me fiercely repent my momentary
forgetfulness and my reliance on the governor's lameness. The sight revealed plainly enough
what new idea had come into La Chatre's mind,--simply that, if he should give the signal for
mademoiselle's death, I would probably not stay to attack him, but would instantly rush into
the next chamber in the hope of saving her. He could then fasten the door, and so hold me prisoner
in that chamber until the return of his troops. Well for us that he had not thought of this
before the arrival of Frojac!

He was already near the table on which was the tray, when I turned and saw him. He raised his
stick to strike the tray. I rushed after him.

He brought down his stick. The tray sounded, loud and bell-like. He heard me coming, and raised
his stick again. The second clang would be the death-knell of my beloved!

But my sword was in time, my arm served. The blade met the descending stick and knocked it
from the governor's grasp. The same rush that took me between La Chatre and the table carried
me across the chamber to a spot at one side of the door which Montignac at that moment threw open.

"You struck once, did you not, monsieur?" said Montignac, not seeing me, for he naturally looked
towards the centre of the chamber.

He held mademoiselle's wrist in his left hand, his dagger in his right. I was at his right
side. I was too near him to use my sword with effect, so I contented myself with stepping quickly
behind him and bringing my fist down on his left arm above the elbow. This unexpected blow
made him involuntarily release mademoiselle's wrist, and informed him of my whereabouts. The
impulse of self-preservation caused him to rush forward and turn. I then stepped in front of
mademoiselle and faced him. All this, from my turning from the window, was done in a moment.

"And now, M. de la Chatre," said I, "you may strike the bowl as often as you please."

"M. de la Chatre," said Montignac, in a quick, resolute voice, "give me leave to finish this!"

"As you will, Montignac!" replied the governor, moving towards the window. His movement betrayed
his thought. If his troops should return in the next few minutes, I would be too busy with
Montignac to attack himself. There were two hopes for him. One was that, by some miracle, Montignac
might kill or wound me. The other was that the troops might return before I should have finished
with Montignac. La Chatre had doubtless inferred that I had brought with me none of my men
but Frojac; therefore I alone was to be feared.

Montignac, keeping his eyes fixed on me, transferred his dagger to his left hand, and drew
his sword with his right. I, with my sword already in my right hand, drew my dagger with my left.

"Monsieur," said I to Montignac, "I see with pleasure that you are not a coward."

"You shall see what you shall see, monsieur!" he answered, in the voice of a man who fears
nothing and never loses his wits.

It was, indeed, a wonder that this man of thought could become so admirable a man of action.
There was nothing fragile in this pale student. His eyes took on the hardness of steel. Never
did more self-reliant and resolute an antagonist meet me. The hate that was manifest in his
countenance did not rob him of self-possession. It only strengthened and steadied him. At first
I thought him foolhardy to face so boldly an antagonist who wore a breastplate, but later I
found that, beneath his jerkin, he was similarly protected. I suppose that he had intended
to accompany the troops to Maury, had so prepared himself for battle, and had not found opportunity,
after the change of intention, to divest himself.

Conscious of mademoiselle's presence behind me, I stood for a moment awaiting the secretary's
attack. In that moment did I hear, or but seem to hear, the sound of many horses' footfalls
on the distant road? I did not wait to assure myself. Knowing that, if the governor's troops
had indeed found Maury abandoned, and had returned, quick work was necessary, I attacked at
the same instant as my adversary did. As I would no more than disable an antagonist less protected
than myself, I made to touch him lightly in his right side; but my point, tearing away a part
of his jerkin, gave the sound and feel of metal, and thus I learned that he too wore body armor.
I was pleased at this; for now we were less unequal than I had thought, and I might use full
force. He had tried to turn with his dagger this my first thrust, but was not quick enough,
whereas my own dagger caught neatly the sword-thrust that he made simultaneously with mine.

"Oh, M. de Launay!" cried mademoiselle, behind me, in a voice of terror, at the first swift
clash of our weapons.

"Fear not for me, mademoiselle!" I cried, catching Montignac's blade again with my dagger,
and giving a thrust which he avoided by leaping backward.

"Good, Montignac!" cried La Chatre, looking on from the window. "He cannot reach you! If you
cannot kill him, you may keep him engaged till the troops come back!"

"I shall kill him!" was Montignac's reply, while he faced me with set teeth and relentless eyes.

"Listen, monsieur!" cried mademoiselle. "If you die, I shall die with you!" And she ran from
behind me to the centre of the chamber, where I could see her.

"And if I live?" I shouted, narrowly stopping a terrible thrust, and stepping back between
the table and the bed.

"If we live, I am yours forever! Ernanton, I love you!"

At last she had confessed it with her lips! For the first time, she had called me by my Christian
name! My head swam with joy.

"You kill me with happiness, Julie!" I cried, overturning the table towards Montignac to gain
a moment's breath.

"I shall kill you with my sword!" Montignac hurled the words through clenched teeth. "For,
by God, you shall have no happiness with her!"

His white face had an expression of demoniac hate, yet his thrusts became the more adroit and
swift, his guard the more impenetrable and firm. His body was as sinuous as a wild beast's,
his eye as steady. The longer he fought, the more formidable he became as an adversary. He
was worth a score of Vicomtes de Berquin.

"Ernanton," cried mademoiselle, "you know all my treachery!"

"I know that you would have saved your father," I answered, leaping backward upon the bed,
to avoid the secretary's impetuous rush; "and that I have saved him, and that, God willing,
we shall soon meet him in Guienne!"

"If he meets you, it will be in hell!" With this, Montignac jumped upon the bed after me, and
there was some close dagger play while I turned to back out between the posts at the foot.

At this moment La Chatre gave a loud, jubilant cry, and mademoiselle, looking out of the window,
uttered a scream of consternation.

"The troops at last!" shouted La Chatre. "Hold out but another minute, Montignac!"

So then I had heard aright. Alas, I thought, that the river road to Maury should be so much
shorter than the forest road; alas, that the governor's troops should have had time to return
ere Blaise had reached the junction of the roads!

"My God, the soldiers have us in a trap!" cried mademoiselle, while I caught Montignac's dagger-point
with a bed-curtain, and stepped backward from the bed to the floor.

"And mademoiselle shall be mine!"

As he uttered these words with a fiendish kind of elation, Montignac leaped from the bed after
me, releasing his dagger by pulling the curtain from its fastening, while at the same time
his sword-point, directed at my neck, rang on my breast-plate.

"You shall not live to see the end of this, monsieur!" I replied, infuriated at his premature glee.

And, having given ground a little, I made so quick an onslaught that, in saving himself, he
fell back against a chair, which overturned and took him to the floor with it.

"Help, monsieur!" he cried to La Chatre, raising his dagger just in time to ward off my sword.

The governor now perceived the sword that stood by the fireplace, took it up, and thrust at
me. Mademoiselle, who, in her distress at the sight of the troops, had run to the prie-dieu
and fallen on her knees, saw La Chatre's movement, and, rushing forward, caught the sword with
both hands as he thrust. I expected to see her fingers torn by the blade, but it happened that
the sword was still in its sheath, a fact which in our excitement none of us had observed;
so that when La Chatre tried to pull the weapon from her grasp he merely drew it from the sheath,
which remained in her hands. By this time I was ready for the governor.

"Come on!" I cried. "It is a better match, two against me!"

And I sent La Chatre's sword flying from his hand, just in time to guard against a dagger stroke
from Montignac, who had now risen. Julie snatched up the sword and held the governor at bay
with it.

For some moments the distant clatter of galloping horses had been rapidly increasing.

"Quick!" shouted La Chatre through the window to the approaching troops. "To the rescue!"

And he stood wildly beckoning them on, but keeping his head turned towards Montignac and me,
who both fought with the greatest fury. For I saw that I had found at last an antagonist requiring
all my strength and skill, one with whom the outcome was not at all certain.

The tumult of hoofs grew louder and nearer.

"Ernanton, fly while we can! The soldiers are coming!"

Mademoiselle threw La Chatre's sword to a far corner, ran to the door leading from the stairway
landing, closed it, and pushed home the bolt.

"They are at the gate! They are entering!" cried the governor, joyously. "Another minute, Montignac!"

There was the rushing clank of hoofs on the drawbridge, then from the courtyard rose a confused
turbulence of horses, men, and arms.

Again my weapons clashed with Montignac's. Julie looked swiftly around. Her eye alighted on
the dagger that lay on one of the chairs. She drew it from its sheath.

"If we die, it is together!" she cried, holding it aloft.

There came a deadened, thumping sound, growing swiftly to great volume. It was that of men
rushing up the stairs.

"To the rescue!" cried La Chatre. "But one more parry, Montignac!"

There was now a thunder of tramping in the hall outside the door.

"Ay, one more--the last!" It was I who spoke, and the speech was truth. I leaped upon my enemy,
between his dagger and his sword, and buried my dagger in his neck. When I drew it out, he
whirled around, clutched wildly at the air, caught the curtain at the window, and fell, with
the quick, sharp cry:

"God have mercy on me!"

"Amen to that!" said I, wiping the blood from my dagger.

A terrible pounding shook the door, and from without came cries of "Open." Mademoiselle ran
to my side, her dagger ready for her breast. I put my left arm around her.

"And now, God have mercy on you!" shouted La Chatre, triumphantly; for the door flew from its
place, and armed men surged into the chamber, crowding the open doorway.

"Are we in time, my captain?" roared their leader, looking from the governor to me.

And La Chatre tottered back to the fireplace, dumbfounded, for the leader was Blaise and the
men were my own.

Julie gave a glad little cry, and, dropping her dagger, sank to her knees exhausted.

"Good-night, monsieur!" I said to La Chatre. "We thank you for your hospitality!"

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE RIDE TOWARDS GUIENNE

I ordered the men to return to the courtyard, and, supporting Julie, I followed them from the
chamber, leaving M. de la Chatre alone with his chagrin and the dead body of his secretary.

In the hall outside the governor's chamber, we found Jeannotte and Hugo, for Blaise had brought
them with him, believing that we would not return to Maury. The gypsies had accompanied him
as far as Godeau's inn, where we had first met them. He had even brought as much baggage and
provisions as could be hastily packed on the horses behind the men. The only human beings left
by him at Maury were the three rascals who had so blunderingly served De Berquin, but he had
considerately unlocked the door of their cell before his departure.

I begged mademoiselle to rest a while in one of the chambers contiguous to the hall, and, when
she and Jeannotte had left us, I told Blaise as much of the truth as it needed to show mademoiselle
as she was. I then explained why he had found the draw-bridge down, the gate open, the chateau
undefended. He grinned at the trick that fate had played on our enemies, but looked rather
downcast at the lost opportunity of meeting them at Maury.

"But," said he, looking cheerful again, "they will come back to the chateau and find us here,
and we may yet have some lively work with them."

"Perchance," I said, "for I fear that mademoiselle cannot endure another ride to-night. If
she could, I would start immediately for Guienne. Our work in Berry is finished."

"Then you shall start immediately," said a gentle but resolute voice behind me. Mademoiselle,
after a few minutes' repose, had risen and come to demand that no consideration for her comfort
should further imperil our safety.

"But--" I started to object.

"Better another ride," she said, with a smile, "than another risking of your life. I swear
that I will not rest till you are out of danger. It is not I who most need rest."

She looked, indeed, fresh and vigorous, as one will, despite bodily fatigue, when one has cast
off a heavy burden and found promise of new happiness. When a whole lifetime of joy was to
be won, it was no time to tarry for the sake of weary limbs.

So it was decided that we should start at once southward, not resting until we should be half-way
across the mountains. As for my belated foragers, we should have to let them take their chances
of rejoining us; and some weeks later they did indeed arrive at the camp in Guienne with rich
spoil, having found Maury given over to the owls and bats as of yore.

The men cheered for joy at the announcement that we were at last to rejoin our Henri's flying
camp. In the guard-house we found Pierre and the other guardsman, both securely bound by Frojac.
We released Pierre and sent him to his mistress. I put Blaise at the head of my company, and
we set forth, half of the troop going first, then mademoiselle and I, then Jeannotte and the
two boys, and lastly the other half of my force. Looking back, I saw the lighted window of
the governor's chamber, that window whence I had looked out at Frojac and whence La Chatre
had mistakenly taken my men for his own. Doubtless he still sat in his chamber, dazed and incapable
of action, for after leaving him alone there I neither saw nor heard him. Nor did we see any
more troops or any servants about the chateau. Some hasty scampering in distant apartments,
after the entrance of my men, was the only indication of inhabitants that we had received.
If there were other troops in the chateau than the six we had disposed of, they followed the
example of the servants and lay close. As for the soldiers at the town guard-house, they must
have heard my men ride to the chateau, but they had wisely refrained from appearing before
a force greater than their own. I shall never cease to marvel that the very night that took
me and my men to Clochonne by one road took La Chatre's guards and the town garrison to Maury
by another.

When I sent Blaise to the head of the troops, I told him to set a good pace, for the governor's
men had indeed had time sufficient to have gone to Maury, discovered their mistake, and come
back, so much shorter is the river road than the forest way. There was a likelihood, therefore,
of their reaching the point of junction, on their return, at any minute, and I wished to be
past that point and well up the mountain-side before they should do so.

Julie rode very close to me, and as soon as we were out of the gate she began in a low tone
to speak of a thing that required no more explanation to me; yet I let her speak on, for the
relief of her heart. So, in a few minutes, as we rode with the soldiers in the night, she eased
her mind forever of the matter.

"When I received word in Bourges," she said, "that my father was in prison, I thought that
I would die of grief and horror. They would not let me see him, told me that his crime of harboring
a Huguenot was a grave one, that he had violated the King's edict, and might be charged even
with treason. The thought of how he must suffer in a dungeon was more than I could endure.
Only M. de la Chatre, they told me, could order his release. La Chatre had left Fleurier to
go northward. I started after him, not waiting even to refresh my horses. When we reached the
inn at the end of the town, I had become sufficiently calm to listen to Hugo's advice that
it would be best to bait the horses before going further. I began to perceive, too, that myself
and Jeannotte needed some nourishment in order to be able to go on a journey. Thus it happened
that I stopped at the inn where La Chatre himself was. He had not gone immediately north from
Fleurier, but had been visiting an estate in the vicinity, and it was on regaining the main
road that he had tarried at the inn, without reentering the town. I had never seen him, but
the girl at the inn told me who he was.

"When I fell on my knees, and told him how incapable my father was of harm or disloyalty, he
at first showed annoyance, and said that my pleading would be useless. My father must be treated
as an example, he said. To succor traitors was treason, to shield heretics was heresy, and
there was no doubt that the judges would condemn him to death, to furnish others a lesson.
He was then going to leave me, but his secretary came forward and said that I had come at an
opportune moment, an instrument sent by Heaven. Was I not, he asked the governor, some one
who had much to gain or much to lose? Then La Chatre became joyful, and said that there was
a way--one only--by which I might free my father. Eagerly I begged to know that way, but with
horror I refused it when I learned that it was to--to hunt down a certain Huguenot captain,
to make him trust me, and to betray him. For a time I would not hear his persuasions. Then
he swore that, if I did not undertake this detestable mission, my father should surely die;
and he told me that you were a deserter, a traitor, an enemy to the church and to the King,
I had heard your name but once or twice, and I remembered it only as one who had worked with
daring and secrecy in the interests of the Huguenots. He described my father tortured and killed,
his body hanging at the gates of Fleurier, blown by the wind, and attacked by the birds. Oh,
it was terrible! All this could be avoided, my father's liberty regained, by my merely serving
the King and the church. He gave his word that, if I betrayed you, my father should be released
without even a trial. You can understand, can you not? You were then a stranger to me, and
my father the most gentle and kindly of men, the most tender and devoted of fathers."

"I understood already when I stood behind the curtain, sweetheart," said I.

"When you came," she went on, "and asked whither I was bound, I made my first attempt at lying.
I wonder that you did not perceive my embarrassment and shame when I said that the governor
had threatened to imprison me if I did not leave the province. It was the best pretext I could
give for leaving Fleurier while my father remained there in prison, though they would not let
me see him. It occurred to me that you must think me a heartless daughter to go so far from
him, even if it were, indeed, to save my life."

"I thought only that you were an unhappy child, of whose inexperience and fears the governor
had availed himself; and that, after all, was the truth. From the first moment when I knew
that you were the daughter of M. de Varion, I was resolved to attempt his rescue; but I kept
my intention from you, lest I might fail."

"Oh, to think that all the while I was planning your betrayal, you were intending to save my
father! Oh, the deception of which I was guilty! What constant torture, what continual shame
I felt! Often I thought I had betrayed myself. Did you not observe my agitation when you first
mentioned the name of La Tournoire, and said that you would take me to him. I wonder that you
did not hear my heart say, 'That is the man I am to betray!' And how bitter, yet sweet, it
was to hear you commiserate my dejection, which was due in part to the shame of the treacherous
task I had undertaken. It seemed to me that you ought to guess its cause, yet you attributed
it all to other sources. What a weight was on me while we rode towards Clochonne, the knowledge
that I was to betray the man whom I then thought your friend,--the friend of the gentleman
who protected me and was so solicitous for my happiness! How glad I was when you told me the
man was no great friend of yours, that you would sacrifice him for the sake of the woman you
loved! After all, I thought you might not loathe me when you should learn that I had betrayed
him! Yet, to perform my task in your presence, to make him love me--for I was to do that, if
needs be and it could be done--while you were with me, seemed impossible. This was the barrier
between us, the fact that I had engaged to betray your friend, and you can understand now why
I begged that you would leave me. How could I play the Delilah in your sight? It had been hard
enough to question you about La Tournoire's hiding-place. And when I learned that you were
La Tournoire himself, whom I had already half betrayed in sending Pierre to La Chatre with
an account of your hiding-place; that you whom I already loved--why should I not confess it?--were
the man whom I was to pretend to love; that you who already loved me were the man whom I was
to betray by making him love me,--oh, what a moment that was, a moment when all hope died and
despair overwhelmed me! Had I known from the first that you were he, I might have guarded against
loving you--"

"And well it is," said I, interrupting, "that for a jest and a surprise I had kept that knowledge
from you! Else you might indeed have--"

"Oh, do not think of it!" And she shuddered. "But you are right. Love alone has saved us. But
at first even the knowledge that you were La Tournoire, and that none the less I loved you,
did not make me turn back. If my duty to my father had before required that I should sacrifice
you, did my duty not still require it? Did it make any change in my duty that I loved you?
What right had I, when devoted to a task like mine, to love any one? If I had violated my duty
by loving you, ought I not to disregard my love, stifle it, act as if it did not exist? I had
to forget that I was a woman who loved, remember only that I was a daughter. My filial duty
was no less, my proper choice between my father and another was not altered by my having fallen
in love. I must carry my horrible task to the end. What a night of struggle was that at the
inn, after I had learned that the appointed victim was you! And now it was necessary that you
should not leave me; therefore I spoke no more of the barrier between us. I fortified myself
to hide my feelings and maintain my pretence. Surely you noticed the change in me, the forced
composure and cheerfulness. How I tried to harden myself!

"And after that the words of love you so often spoke to me, what bliss and what anguish they
caused me! I was to have made you love me, but you loved me already. I ought to have rejoiced
at this, for the success that it promised my purpose. Yet, it was on that account that I shuddered
at it; and if it did give me moments of joy it was because it was pleasant to have your love.
My heart rose at the thought that I was loved by you, and fell at the thought that your love
was to cause your death. Often, for your own sake, I wished that I might fail, that you would
not love me; yet for my father's sake I had to wish that I should succeed, had to be glad that
you loved me. To make you fall the more easily into the hands of your enemies, I had to show
love for you. How easy it was to show what I felt; yet what anguish I underwent in showing
it, when by doing so I led you to death! The more I appeared to love you, the more truly I
disclosed my heart, yet the greater I felt was my treason! I do not think any woman's heart
was ever so torn by opposing motives!"

"My beloved, all that is past forever!"

"In my dreams at Maury, we would be strolling together among roses, under cloudless skies,
nothing to darken my joy. Then I would see you wounded, the soldiers of the governor gathered
around you and laughing at my horror and grief. I would awake and vow not to betray you, and
then I would see my father's face, pale and haggard, and my dead mother's wet with tears for
his misery and supplicating me to save him!"

"My poor Julie!"

"And to-night,--yes, it was only to-night, it seems so long ago,--when you held my hand on
the dial, and plighted fidelity, what happiness I should have had then, but for the knowledge
of my horrible task, of the death that awaited you, of the treason I was so soon to commit!
For I and Jeannotte had already arranged it, Hugo was soon to be sent to La Chatre. And then
came De Berquin. For telling only the truth of me, you killed him as a traducer. So much faith
you had in me, who deserved so little! I could endure it no longer! Never would I look on your
face again with that weight of shame on me. God must send other means of saving my father.
They demanded too much of me. I would, as far as I could, make myself worthy of your faith,
though I never saw you again. Yet I could not betray La Chatre. He had entrusted me with his
design, and, detestable as it was, I could not play him false in it. But I could at least resign
the mission. And I went, to undo the compact and claim back my honor! I little guessed that
he would make use, without my knowledge, of the information I had sent him of your hiding-place.
It seemed that, even though La Chatre did know your hiding-place, God would not let you be
taken through me if I refused to be your betrayer."

"And so it has turned out," I said, blithely, "and now I no longer regret having kept from
you my intention of attempting your father's release. For had I told you of it, and events
taken another course, that attempt might have failed, and it would perhaps have cost many lives,
whereas the order that I got from La Chatre this night is both sure and inexpensive. But for
matters having gone as they have, I should not have been enabled to get that order. Ha! What
is this!"

For Blaise had suddenly called a halt, and was riding back to me as if for orders.

"Look, monsieur!" and he pointed to where the rive, road appeared from behind a little spur
at the base of the mountains. A body of horsemen was coming into view. At one glance I recognized
the foremost riders as belonging to the troop I had seen four hours before.

"The devil!" said I. "La Chatre's soldiers coming back from Maury!"

We had ridden down the descent leading from the chateau along the town wall, and had left the
town some distance behind, so that the mountains now loomed large before us. But we had not
yet passed the place where the roads converged.

"If we can only get into the mountain road before they reach this one, we shall not meet them,"
I went on. "Forward, men!"

"But," said Blaise, astonished and frowning, but riding on beside me, "they will reach this
road before we pass the junction. Do you wish them to take us in the flank? See, they have
seen us and are pressing forward!"

"If we reach our road in time, we shall lead them a chase. Go to the head and set the pace
at a gallop!"

"And have them overtake us and fall on our rear?"

"You mutinous rascal, don't you see that they are three times our number? We stand better chance
in flight than in fight! But, no, you are right! They are too near the junction. We must face
them. I shall go to the head. Julie, my betrothed, I must leave you for a time. Roquelin and
Sabray shall fall behind with you, Jeannotte, and the two boys."

"I shall not leave your side!" she said, resolutely.

"Oh, mademoiselle!" cried Jeannotte, in a great fright.

"You may fall back, if you like," said Julie to her. "I shall not."

All this time we were going forward and the governor's troops were rapidly nearing the junction.
We could now plainly hear the noise they made, which, because of that made by ourselves, we
had not heard sooner. They were looking at us with curiosity, and were evidently determined
to intercept us.

"Julie, consider! There may be great danger."

"If you are endangered, why should not I be? This is not the night, Ernanton, on which you
should ask me to leave you."

"Then I shall at least remain here," said I. "Go to the head, Blaise. But if there is a challenge,
I shall answer it. Perhaps they will not know us and we can make them think we are friends."

He rode forward with sparkling eyes, although not before casting one glance of solicitude at
Jeannotte, who did not leave her mistress.

The men eagerly looked to their arms as they rode, and they exchanged conjectures in low, quick
tones, casting many a curious look at the approaching force. Julie and I kept silence, I wondering
what would be the outcome of this encounter.

Suddenly, when the head of their long, somewhat straggling line had just reached the junction,
and Blaise was but a short distance from it, came from their leader--La Chatre's equerry, I
think--the order to halt, and then the clear, sharp cry:

"Who goes there?"

Before I could answer, a familiar voice near their leader cried out:

"It is his company,--La Tournoire's,--I swear it! I know the big fellow at the head."

The voice was that of the foppish, cowardly rascal of De Berquin's band. I now saw that the
three fellows left by Blaise at Maury were held as prisoners by the governor's troops. Poor
Jacques, doubtless, thought to get his freedom or some reward for crying out our identity.

"I shall wring your neck yet, lap-dog!" roared Blaise.

All chance of passing under false colors was now gone. A battle with thrice our force seemed
imminent. What would befall Julie if they should be too much for us? The thought made me sick
with horror. At that instant I remembered something.

