Analogy between a State and a man is often useful, if not pushed too far. The original man
in a primitive state is always assumed to have been bound to find or make everything that he
wanted by his own exertions. He was hut builder, hunter, cultivator, bow-maker, arrow-maker,
trapper, fisherman, boat-builder, leather-dresser, tailor, fighter--a wonderfully versatile
and self-sufficient person. As the process grew up of specialization, and the exchange of goods
and services, all the things that were needed by man were made much better and more cheaply,
but this was only brought about at the expense of each man's versatility. Nowadays we can all
of us do something very much better than the primitive savage, but we cannot do everything
nearly as well. We have become little insignificant wheels in a mighty great machine that feeds
us and clothes us and provides us with comforts and luxuries of which he could never have dreamt.
He was the whole of his machine, and was thereby a far more completely developed man. The modern
millionaire, in spite of his enormous indirect power over the forces of nature, is a puny and
ineffective being by the side of his savage ancestor, in the matter of power to take care of
himself with his own hands and feet and eyes, and with weapons made by his own ingenuity and
cunning. Moreover, though in the case of the millionaire and of all the comparatively well-to-do
classes we can point to great intellectual and artistic advantages, and many pleasant amenities
of life now enjoyed by them, thanks to the process of specialization, these advantages can
only be enjoyed to the full by comparatively few. To the majority specialization has brought
a life of mechanical and monotonous toil, with little or none of the pride in a job well done,
such as was enjoyed by the savage when he had made his bow or caught his fish; those who work
all day on some minute process necessary, among many others, to the turning out of a pin, can
never feel the full joy of achievement such as is gained by a man who has made the whole of
anything. Pins are made much faster, but some of the men who make them remain machines, and
never become men at all in the real sense of the word. And when at the same time the circumstances
of their lives, apart from their work, are all that they should not be--bad food, bad clothes,
bad education, bad houses, foul atmosphere and dingy and sordid surroundings, it is very obvious
that to a large part of working mankind, the benefits of the much vaunted division of labour
have been accompanied by very serious drawbacks. The best that can be said is that if it had
not been for the division of labour a large number of them could never have come into existence
at all; and the question remains whether any sort of existence is better than none.

In the case of a nation the process of specialization has not, for obvious reasons, gone nearly
so far. Every country does a certain amount of farming and of seafaring (if it has a seaboard),
and of manufacturing. But the tendency has been towards increasing specialization, and the
last results of specialization, if carried to its logical end, are not nice to forecast. "It
is not pleasant," wrote a distinguished statistician, "to contemplate England as one vast factory,
an enlarged Manchester, manufacturing in semi-darkness, continual uproar and at an intense
pressure for the rest of the world. Nor would the continent of America, divided into square,
numbered fields, and cultivated from a central station by electricity, be an ennobling spectacle."[7]

It need not be said that the horrible consequences of specialization depicted by Dr. Bowley
need not necessarily have happened, even if its effects has been given free play. But the interesting
point about his picture, at the present moment, is the fact that it was drawn from the purely
economic and social point of view. He questioned whether it was really to the advantage of
a nation, regarding only its own comfort and well-being, to allow specialization to go beyond
a certain point. It had already arrived at a point at which land was going out of cultivation
in England, and was being more and more regarded as a park, pleasure ground and sporting place
for people who made, or whose forbears had made, fortunes out of commerce and finance, and
less and less as a means for supplying food for our workers, and raw material for our industries.
The country workers were going to the new countries that our capital was opening up, or into
the towns to learn industrial crafts, or taking services as gamekeepers, grooms or chauffeurs,
with the well-to-do classes who earned their profits from industry or business. Even before
the war there was a growing scarcity of labour to grow, and harvest, even the lessened volume
of our agricultural output. Dr. Bowley's picture was far from being realized and even if the
process of specialization had gone on, it may be hoped that we should have had sense enough
to avoid the blackest of its horrors.

Then came the war, which went far to undermine the great underlying assumption on which the
free interchange of capital among nations and the consequent specialization that proceeded
from it, was taken to be a safe and sound policy. This assumption was in effect, that the world
was civilized to a point at which there was no need to fear that its whole economic arrangements
would be upset by war. We now know that the world was not civilized to this point, and is a
very long way from being so, that the ultimate appeal is still to "arms and the man," and that
we have still to be careful to see that our trade and industry are carried on in such a way
as to be least likely to be hurt if ploughshares have suddenly to be beaten into swords. At
first sight, this is a somewhat tragical discovery, but it carries with it certain consolations.
If the apparent civilization evolved by the nineteenth century had been good and wholesome,
it might have been really sad to find that it was only a thin veneer laid over a structure
that man's primitive passions might at any moment overturn. In fact, the apparently achieved
civilization was so grossly material in its successes, so forcibly feeble in its failures,
so beset with vulgarity at its summit and undermined by destitution at its base, that even
the horrors of the present war, with its appalling loss of the best lives of the chief nations
of the earth, may be a blessing to mankind in the long run if they purge its notions about
the things that are worth trying for.

At least the war is teaching us that the wealth of a nation is not a pile of commodities to
be frittered away in vulgar ostentation and stupid self-indulgence, but the number of its citizens
who are able and ready to play the man as workers or fighters when a time of trial comes. "National
prosperity," says Cobbett, "shows itself ... in the plentiful meal, the comfortable dwelling,
the decent furniture and dress, the healthy and happy countenances, and the good morals of
the labouring classes of the people." So he wrote, in Newgate gaol, in 1810.[8] Since then
many reformers have preached the same sound doctrine, but its application has made poor progress,
in relation to the growth of our riches in the same period. If we now decide to put it into
practice, we shall not long tolerate the existence in our midst of disease and destitution,
and a system of distribution of the world's goods which gives millions of our population no
chance of full development.

We need not, then, stay to shed tears over the civilization, such as it was, which we thought
we had and had not. Its good points will endure, for evil has a comfortable habit of killing
itself and those who work it. All that we are concerned with at this moment is the fact that
its downfall has shaken an article in our economic faith which taught us that specialization
was a cause of so much more good than evil, that its development by the free spreading of our
capital all over the world, wherever the demand for it gave most profit to the owner, was a
tendency to be encouraged, or at least to be left free to work out its will. This was true
enough to be a platitude as long as we could rely on peace. Our capital went forth and fertilized
the world, and out of its growing produce the world enriched us. As the world developed its
productive power, its goods poured into us, as the great free mart where all men were welcome
to sell their wares. These goods came in exchange for our goods and services, and the more
we bought the more we sold. When other nations took to dealing direct with one another, they
wanted our capital to finance the business, and our ships to carry the goods. The world as
a whole could not grow in wealth without enriching the people that was the greatest buyer and
seller, the greatest moneylender and the greatest carrier. It was all quite sound, apart from
the danger depicted by Dr. Bowley, as long as we had peace, or as long as the wars that happened
were sufficiently restricted in their area and effect. But now we have seen that war may happen
on such a scale as to make the interchange of products between nations a source of grave weakness
to those who practise it, if it means that they are thereby in danger of finding themselves
at war with the providers of things that they need for subsistence or for defence.

Another lesson that the war has taught us is that modern warfare enormously increases the cost
of carriage by sea, because it shuts up in neutral harbours the merchant ships of the powers
that are weaker on the sea, and makes huge calls, for transport purposes, on those of the powers
which are in the ascendant on the water. This increase in the cost of sea carriage adds to
the cost of all goods that come by sea, and is a particularly important item in the bill that
we, as an island people, have to pay for the luxury of war. It is true that much of the high
price of freight goes into the pockets of our shipowners, but they, being busy with transport
work for the Government, cannot take nearly so much advantage of it as the shipmasters of neutral
countries.

The economic argument, then, that it pays best to make and grow things where they can best
be made and grown remains just as true as ever it was, but it has been complicated by a political
objection that if one happens to go to war with a nation that has supplied raw material, or
half-raw material, for industries that are essential to our commercial if not to our actual
existence, the good profits made in time of peace are likely to be wiped out, or worse, by
the extent of the inconvenience and paralysis that this dependence brings with it in time of
war. And even if we are not at war with our providers, the greater danger and cost of carriage
by sea, when war is afoot, makes us question the advantage of the process, for example, by
which we have developed a foreign dairying industry with our capital, and learnt to depend
on it for a large part of our supply of eggs and butter, while at home we have seen a great
magnate lay waste farms in order to make fruitful land into a wilderness for himself and his
deer. It may have paid us to let this be done if we were sure of peace, but now that we have
seen what modern warfare means, when it breaks out on a big scale, we may surely begin to think
that people who make bracken grow in place of wheat, in order to improve what auctioneers call
the amenities of their rural residences, are putting their personal gratification first in
a question which is of national importance.

We may seem to have strayed far from the problems of International Finance and the free interchange
of capital between countries, but in fact we are in the very middle of them, because they are
so complicated and diverse that they affect nearly every aspect of our national lives. By sending
capital abroad we make other countries produce for us and so we help a tendency by which we
grow less at home, and export coupons, or demands for interest, instead of the present produce
of our brains and muscles; and we do much more than that, for we thereby encourage the best
of our workers to leave our shores and seek their fortunes in the new lands which our capital
opens up. When we export capital it goes in the shape of goods and services, and it is followed
by an export of men, who go to lands where land is plentiful and cheap, and men are scarce
and well paid. This process again was sound enough from the purely economic point of view.
It quickened the growth of the world's wealth by putting men of enterprise in places where
their work was most handsomely rewarded, and their lives were unhampered by the many bars to
success that remnants of feudalism and social restrictions put in their way in old countries;
and it cleared the home labour market and so helped the workers in their uphill struggle for
better conditions and a chance of a real life. But when the guns begin to shoot, the question
must arise whether we were wise in leaving the export of capital, which has such great and
complicated effects, entirely to the influence of the higgling of the market, and the price
offered by the highest bidder.

Much will evidently depend on the way in which the present war ends. If it should prove to
be, as so many hoped at its beginning, a "war to end war," and should be followed by a peace
so well and truly founded that we need have no fear for its destruction, then there will be
much to be said for leaving economic forces to work themselves out by economic means, subject
to any checks that their social effects may make necessary. But if, as seems to be probable,
the war ends in a way that makes other such wars quite possible, when we have all recovered
from the exhaustion and disgust produced by the present one, then political expediency may
overrule economic advantage, and we may find it necessary to consider the policy of restricting
the export of British capital to countries with which there is no chance of our ever being
at war, and especially to our own Dominions oversea, not necessarily by prohibitions and hard
and fast rules, but rather by seeing that the countries to which it is desirable for our capital
to go may have some advantage when they appeal for it.

This advantage our own colonial Dominions already possess, both from the sentiment of investors,
which is a strong influence in their favour, and will be stronger than ever after the war,
and from legal enactment which allows trustees to invest trust funds in their loans. Probably
the safest course would be to leave sentiment to settle the matter, and pray to Providence
to give us sensible sentiments. Actual restraints on the export of capital would be very difficult
to enforce, for capital is an elusive commodity that cannot be stopped at the Customs houses.
If we lent money to a friendly nation, and our friend was thereby enabled to lend to a likely
foe, we should not have mended matters. The time is not yet ripe for a full discussion of this
difficult and complicated question, and it is above all important that we should not jump to
hasty conclusions about it while under the influence of the feverish state of mind produced
by war. The war has shown us that our wealth was a sure and trusty weapon, and much of the
strength of this weapon we owe to our activity in International Finance.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 7: "England's Foreign Trade in the Nineteenth Century," p, 16, by Dr. A.L. Bowley.]

[Footnote 8: "Paper against Gold," Letter III.]

CHAPTER VIII

REMEDIES AND REGULATIONS

Apart from the political measures which may be found necessary for the regulation, after the
war, of International Finance, it remains to consider what can be done to amend the evils from
which it suffers, and likewise what, if anything, can be done to strengthen our financial weapon,
and sharpen its edge to help us in the difficult fight that will follow the present war, however
it may end.

It has been shown in a previous chapter that the real weaknesses in the system of International
Finance arise from the bad use made of its facilities by improvident and corrupt borrowers,
and from the bigger profits attached, in the case of success, to the more questionable kinds
of issues. With regard to the latter point it was also shown that these bigger profits may
be, to a great extent, justified by the fact that the risk involved is much greater; since
in the case of failure a weak security is much more difficult to finance and find a home for
than a good one. It may further be asked why weak securities should be brought out at all and
whether it is not the business of financial experts to see that nothing but the most water-tight
issues are offered to the public. Such a question evidently answers itself, for if only those
borrowers were allowed to come into the market whose credit was beyond doubt, the growth of
young communities and of budding enterprises would be strangled and the forward movement of
material progress would be seriously checked.

It is sometimes contended that much more might be done by the Stock Exchange Committee in taking
measures to see that the securities to which it grants quotations and settlements are soundly
based. If this view is to prevail, its victory has been greatly helped by the events of the
war, during which the Stock Exchange has seen itself regulated and controlled by outside authority
to such an extent that it would be much readier than it was two years ago to submit to regulations
imposed on it by its own Committee at the bidding of the Government. Nevertheless, there is
this great difficulty, that as soon as the Stock Exchange begins to impose other than merely
formal rules upon the issue of securities under its authority, the public very naturally comes
to the conclusion that all securities brought out under its sanction may be relied on as absolutely
secure; and since it is wholly impossible that the Committee's regulations could be so strict
as to ensure this result without imposing limits that would have the effect of smothering enterprise,
the effect of any such attempt would be to encourage the public to pursue a happy-go-lucky
system of investing, and then to blame the Stock Exchange if ever it found that it had made
a mistake and had indulged in speculation when it flattered itself that it was investing. The
whole question bristles with difficulties, but it seems hardly likely that after the war the
Stock Exchange and the business of dealing in securities will ever be quite on the old basis again.

In any attempt that is made to regulate them, however, it will be very necessary to remember
that capital is an extremely elusive thing, and that if too strict rules are laid down for
it, it very easily evades them by transferring itself to other centres. If the authorities
decide that only such and such issues are to be made, or such and such securities are to be
dealt in in London, they will be inviting those who consider such regulations unfair or unwise
to buy a draft on Paris or New York, and invest their money in a foreign centre. Capital is
easily scared, and is very difficult to bottle up and control, and if any guidance of it in
a certain direction is needed, the object would probably be much more easily achieved by suggestion
than by any attempt at hard and fast restriction, such as worked well enough under the stress
of war.

Any real improvement to be achieved in the system by which we have hitherto supplied other
nations with capital will ultimately have to be brought about by a keener appreciation, both
by issuing houses and investors, of the kind of business that is truly legitimate and profitable.
It does not pay in the long run to supply young communities with opportunities for outrunning
the constable, and it is possible that when this wholesome platitude is more clearly grasped
by the public, no issuing house will be found to bring out a loan that is not going to be used
for some definite reproductive purpose, or to float a company, even of the semi-speculative
kind, the prospects of which have not been so well tested that the shareholders are at least
bound to have a fair chance of success. The ideals of the issuing houses have so far advanced
since the days of the Honduras scandal, that in the time of the late war in the Balkans none
could be found to father any financial operation in London on behalf of any of the warring
peoples. It only remains for the education of the investor to continue the progress that it
has lately made, for the waste of capital by bad investment to be greatly curtailed. Probably
there will always, as long as the present financial basis of society lasts, be outbursts of
speculation in which a greedy public will rush madly after certain classes of stocks and shares,
with the result that a few cool-headed or lucky gamblers will be able to live happily ever
after as country gentlemen, and transmit comfortable fortunes to their descendants for all
time. This is the debt that society pays for its occasional lapses in finance, just as its
lapses in matters of taste are paid for by the enriching of those who provide it with rubbishy
stuff to read, or rubbishy shows in picture palaces. The education of the individual in the
matter of spending or investing his or her money is one of the most pressing needs of the future,
and only by its progress can the evils which are usually laid to the door of finance be cured
by being attacked in their real home. In the meantime much might be done by more candid publicity
and clearer statements in prospectuses of the objects for which money lent is to be used and
of the terms on which loan issues have been arranged. Any reasonable attempts that may be made
to improve the working of International Finance are certain to have the support of the best
elements in the City.

