The visit of the Marchioness was passed over with the less disturbance to Miss Tallowax because
it was arranged that she was to be taken over to lunch at Manor Cross on the following day.
Lord George had said a word, and Lady Sarah had consented, though, as a rule, Lady Sarah did
not like the company of vulgar people. The peasants of the parish, down to the very poorest
of the poor, were her daily companions. With them she would spend hours, feeling no inconvenience
from their language or habits. But she did not like gentlefolk who were not gentle. In days
now long gone by, she had only assented to the Dean, because holy orders are supposed to make
a gentleman; for she would acknowledge a bishop to be as grand a nobleman as any, though he
might have been born the son of a butcher. But nobility and gentry cannot travel backwards,
and she had been in doubt about Miss Tallowax. But even with the Lady Sarah a feeling has made
its way which teaches them to know that they must submit to some changes. The thing was to
be regretted, but Lady Sarah knew that she was not strong enough to stand quite alone. "You
know she is very rich," the Marchioness had said in a whisper; "and if Brotherton marries,
your poor brother will want it so badly."

"That ought not to make any difference, mamma," said Lady Sarah. Whether it did make any difference
or not, Lady Sarah herself probably hardly knew; but she did consent to the asking of Miss
Tallowax to lunch at Manor Cross.

CHAPTER V.

MISS TALLOWAX IS SHOWN THE HOUSE.

The Dean took his aunt over to Manor Cross in his brougham. The Dean's brougham was the neatest
carriage in Brotherton, very much more so than the bishop's family carriage. It was, no doubt,
generally to be seen with only one horse; and neither the bishop or Mrs. Barton ever stirred
without two; but then one horse is enough for town work, and that one horse could lift his
legs and make himself conspicuous in a manner of which the bishop's rather sorry jades knew
nothing. On this occasion, as the journey was long, there were two horses--hired; but, nevertheless,
the brougham looked very well as it came up the long Manor Cross avenue. Miss Tallowax became
rather frightened as she drew near to the scene of her coming grandeur.

"Henry," she said to her nephew, "they will think so little of me."

"My dear aunt," replied the Dean, "in these days a lady who has plenty of money of her own
can hold her head up anywhere. The dear old marchioness will think quite as much of you as
you do of her."

What perhaps struck Miss Tallowax most at the first moment was the plainness of the ladies'
dresses. She, herself, was rather gorgeous in a shot-silk gown and a fashionable bonnet crowded
with flowers. She had been ashamed of the splendour of the article as she put it on, and yet
had been ashamed also of her ordinary daily head gear. But when she saw the Marchioness, and
especially when she saw Lady Sarah, who was altogether strange to her, she wished that she
had come in her customary black gown. She had heard something about Lady Sarah from her niece,
and had conceived an idea that Lady Sarah was the dragon of the family. But when she saw a
little woman, looking almost as old as herself,--though in truth the one might have been the
other's mother,--dressed in an old brown merino, with the slightest morsel of white collar
to be seen round her neck, she began to hope that the dragon would not be very fierce.

"I hope you like Brotherton, Miss Tallowax," said Lady Sarah. "I think I have heard that you
were here once before."

"I like Brotherton very much, my lady." Lady Sarah smiled as graciously as she knew how. "I
came when they first made Henry dean, a long time ago now it seems. But he had not then the
honour of knowing your mamma or the family."

"It wasn't long before we did know him," said the Marchioness. Then Miss Tallowax turned round
and again curtseyed with her head and shoulders.

The Dean at this moment was not in the room, having been withdrawn from the ladies by his son-in-law
at the front door; but as luncheon was announced, the two men came in. Lord George gave his
arm to his wife's great aunt, and the Dean followed with the Marchioness.

"I really am a'most ashamed to walk out before her ladyship," said Miss Tallowax, with a slight
attempt at laughing at her own ignorance.

But Lord George rarely laughed at anything, and certainly did not know how to treat pleasantly
such a subject as this. "It's quite customary," he said very gravely.

The lunch was much more tremendous to Miss Tallowax than had been the dinner at the deanery.
Though she was ignorant,--ignorant at any rate of the ways of such people as those with whom
she was now consorting,--she was by no means a stupid old woman. She was soon able to perceive
that in spite of the old merino gown, it was Lady Sarah's spirit that quelled them all. At
first there was very little conversation. Lord George did not speak a word. The Marchioness
never exerted herself. Poor Mary was cowed and unhappy. The Dean made one or two little efforts,
but without much success. Lady Sarah was intent upon her mutton chop, which she finished to
the last shred, turning it over and over in her plate so that it should be economically disposed
of, looking at it very closely because she was short-sighted. But when the mutton chop had
finally done its duty, she looked up from her plate and gave evident signs that she intended
to take upon herself the weight of the conversation. All the subsequent ceremonies of the lunch
itself, the little tarts and the jelly, and the custard pudding, she despised altogether, regarding
them as wicked additions. One pudding after dinner she would have allowed, but nothing more
of that sort. It might be all very well for parvenu millionaires to have two grand dinners
a-day, but it could not be necessary that the Germains should live in that way, even when the
Dean of Brotherton and his aunt came to lunch with them.

"I hope you like this part of the country, Miss Tallowax," she said, as soon as she had deposited
her knife and fork over the bone.

"Manor Cross is quite splendid, my lady," said Miss Tallowax.

"It is an old house, and we shall have great pleasure in showing you what the people call the
state rooms. We never use them. Of course you know the house belongs to my brother, and we
only live here because it suits him to stay in Italy."

"That's the young Marquis, my lady?"

"Yes; my elder brother is Marquis of Brotherton, but I cannot say that he is very young. He
is two years my senior, and ten years older than George."

"But I think he's not married yet?" asked Miss Tallowax.

The question was felt to be disagreeable by them all. Poor Mary could not keep herself from
blushing, as she remembered how much to her might depend on this question of her brother-in-law's
marriage. Lord George felt that the old lady was enquiring what chance there might be that
her grand niece should ever become a marchioness. Old Lady Brotherton, who had always been
anxious that her elder son should marry, felt uncomfortable, as did also the Dean, conscious
that all there must be conscious how important must be the matter to him.

"No," said Lady Sarah, with stately gravity; "my elder brother is not yet married. If you would
like to see the rooms, Miss Tallowax, I shall have pleasure in showing you the way."

The Dean had seen the rooms before, and remained with the old lady. Lord George, who thought
very much of everything affecting his own family, joined the party, and Mary felt herself compelled
to follow her husband and her aunt. The two younger sisters also accompanied Lady Sarah.

"This is the room in which Queen Elizabeth slept," said Lady Sarah, entering a large chamber
on the ground floor, in which there was a four-post bedstead, almost as high as the ceiling,
and looking as though no human body had profaned it for the last three centuries.

"Dear me," said Miss Tallowax, almost afraid to press such sacred boards with her feet. "Queen
Elizabeth! Did she really now?"

"Some people say she never did actually come to Manor Cross at all," said the conscientious
Lady Amelia; "but there is no doubt that the room was prepared for her."

"Laws!" said Miss Tallowax, who began to be less afraid of distant royalty now that a doubt
was cast on its absolute presence.

"Examining the evidence as closely as we can," said Lady Sarah, with a savage glance at her
sister, "I am inclined to think that she certainly did come. We know that she was at Brotherton
in 1582, and there exists the letter in which Sir Humphrey Germaine, as he was then, is desired
to prepare rooms for her. I myself have no doubt on the subject."

"After all it does not make much difference," said Mary.

"I think it makes all the difference in the world," said Lady Susanna. "That piece of furniture
will always be sacred to me, because I believe it did once afford rest and sleep to the gracious
majesty of England."

"It do make a difference, certainly," said Miss Tallowax, looking at the bed with all her eyes.
"Does anybody ever go to bed here now?"

"Nobody, ever," said Lady Sarah. "Now we will go through to the great dining hall. That's the
portrait of the first earl."

"Painted by Kneller," said Lady Amelia, proudly.

"Oh, indeed," said Miss Tallowax.

"There is some doubt as to that," said Lady Sarah. "I have found out that Sir Godfrey Kneller
was only born in 1648, and as the first earl died a year or two after the restoration, I don't
know that he could have done it."

"It was always said that it was painted by Kneller," said Lady Amelia.

"There has been a mistake, I fear," said Lady Sarah.

"Oh, indeed," said Miss Tallowax, looking up with intense admiration at a very ill-drawn old
gentleman in armour. Then they entered the state dining-room or hall, and Miss Tallowax was
informed that the room had not been used for any purpose whatever for very many years. "And
such a beautiful room!" said Miss Tallowax, with much regret.

"The fact is, I believe, that the chimney smokes horribly," said Lord George.

"I never remember a fire here," said Lady Sarah. "In very cold weather we have a portable stove
brought in, just to preserve the furniture. This is called the old ball room."

"Dear me!" ejaculated Miss Tallowax, looking round at the faded yellow hangings.

"We did have a ball here once," said Lady Amelia, "when Brotherton came of age. I can just
remember it."

"Has it never been used since?" asked Mary.

"Never," said Lady Sarah. "Sometimes when it's rainy we walk up and down for exercise. It is
a fine old house, but I often wish that it were smaller. I don't think people want rooms of
this sort now as much as they used to do. Perhaps a time may come when my brother will make
Manor Cross gay again, but it is not very gay now. I think that is all, Miss Tallowax."

"It's very fine;--very fine indeed," said Miss Tallowax, shivering. Then they all trooped back
into the morning room which they used for their daily life.

The old lady when she had got back into the brougham with her nephew, the Dean, was able to
express her mind freely. "I wouldn't live in that house, Henry, not if they was to give it
me for nothing."

"They'd have to give you something to keep it up with."

"And not then, neither. Of course it's all very well having a bed that Queen Elizabeth slept in."

"Or didn't sleep in."

"I'd teach myself to believe she did. But dear me, that isn't everything. It nearly gave me
the horrors to look at it. Room after room,--room after room,--and nobody living in any of them."

"People can't live in more than a certain number of rooms at once, aunt."

"Then what's the use of having them? And don't you think for the daughters of a Marchioness
they are a little what you'd call--dowdy?"

"They don't go in for dress much."

"Why, my Jemima at home, when the dirty work is done, is twice smarter than Lady Sarah. And,
Henry,--don't you think they're a little hard upon Mary?"

"Hard upon her;--how?" The Dean had listened to the old woman's previous criticisms with a
smile; but now he was interested and turned sharply round to her. "How hard?"

"Moping her up there among themselves; and it seemed to me they snubbed her whenever she spoke."
The Dean had not wanted his aunt's observation to make him feel this. The tone of every syllable
addressed to his girl had caught his ear. He had been pleased to marry her into so good a family.
He had been delighted to think that by means of his prosperity in the world his father's grand-daughter
might probably become a peeress. But he certainly had not intended that even for such a reward
as that his daughter should become submissive to the old maids at Manor Cross. Foreseeing something
of this he had stipulated that she should have a house of her own in London; but half her time
would probably be spent in the country, and with reference to that half of her time it would
be necessary that she should be made to understand that as the wife of Lord George she was
in no respect inferior to his sisters, and that in some respects she was their superior. "I
don't see the good of living in a big house," continued Miss Tallowax, "if all the time everything
is to be as dull as dull."

"They are older than she is, you know."

"Poor little dear! I always did say that young folk should have young folk about 'em. Of course
it's a great thing for her to have a lord for her husband. But he looks a'most too old himself
for such a pretty darling as your Mary."

"He's only thirty-three."

"It's in the looks, I suppose, because he's so grand. But it's that Lady Sarah puzzles me.
It isn't in her looks, and yet she has it all her in own way. Well;--I liked going there, and
I'm glad I've been; but I don't know as I shall ever want to go again." Then there was silence
for some time; but as the brougham was driven into Brotherton Miss Tallowax spoke again. "I
don't suppose an old woman like me can ever be of any use, and you'll always be at hand to
look after her. But if ever she should want an outing, just to raise her spirits, old as I
am, I think I could make it brighter for her than it is there." The Dean took her hand and
pressed it, and then there was no more said.

When the brougham was driven away Lord George took his wife for a walk in the park. She was
still struggling hard to be in love with him, never owning failure to herself, and sometimes
assuring herself that she had succeeded altogether. Now, when he asked her to come with him,
she put on her hat joyfully, and joined her hands over his arm as she walked away with him
into the shrubbery.

"She's a wonderful old woman;--is not she, George?"

"Not very wonderful."

"Of course you think she's vulgar."

"I didn't say so."

"No; you're too good to say so, because she's papa's aunt. But she's very good. Don't you think
she's very good?"

"I dare say she is. I don't know that I run into superlatives quite so much as you do."

"She has brought me such a handsome present. I could not show it you before them all just now,
and it only came down from London this morning. She did not say a word about it before. Look
here." Then she slipped her glove off and showed him a diamond ring.

"You should not wear that out of doors."

"I only put it on to show you. Wasn't it good of her? 'Young people of rank ought to wear nice
things,' she said, as she gave it me. Wasn't it an odd thing for her to say? and yet I understood
her." Lord George frowned, thinking that he also understood the old woman's words, and reminding
himself that the ladies of rank at Manor Cross never did wear nice things. "Don't you think
it was nice?"

"Of course she is entitled to make you a present if she pleases."

"It pleased me, George."

"I dare say, and as it doesn't displease me all is well. You, however, have quite sense enough
to understand, that in this house more is thought of--of--of--" he would have said blood, but
that he did not wish to hurt her,--"more is thought of personal good conduct than of rings
and jewels."

"Rings and jewels, and--personal conduct may go together; mayn't they?"

"Of course they may."

"And very often do. You won't think my--personal conduct--will be injured because I wear my
aunt's ring?"

When Lord George made his allusion to personal conduct one of her two hands dropped from his
arm, and now, as she repeated the words, there was a little sting of sarcasm in her voice.

"I was intending to answer your aunt's opinion that young people ought to wear nice things.
No doubt there is at present a great rage for rich ornaments and costly dress, and it was of
these she was thinking when she spoke of nice things. When I spoke of personal conduct being
more thought of here, I intended to imply that you had come into a family not given to rich
ornaments and costly dress. My sisters feel that their portion in this world is assured to
them without such outward badges, and wish that you should share the feeling."

This was a regular sermon, and to Mary's thinking was very disagreeable, and not at all deserved.
Did her husband really mean to tell her that, because his sisters chose to dress themselves
down in the country like dowdy old maids whom the world had deserted, she was to do the same
up in London? The injustice of this on all sides struck home to her at the moment. They were
old and she was young. They were plain; she was pretty. They were poor; she was rich. They
didn't feel any wish to make themselves what she called "nice." She did feel a very strong
wish in that direction. They were old maids; she was a young bride. And then what right had
they to domineer over her, and to send word to her through her husband of their wishes as to
her manner of dressing? She said nothing at the moment; but she became red, and began to feel
that she had power within her to rebel at any rate against her sisters-in-law. There was silence
for a moment or so, and then Lord George reverted to the subject.

"I hope you can sympathise with my sisters," he said. He had felt that the hand had been dropped,
and had understood something of the reason.

She wished to rebel against them, but by no means wished to oppose him. She was aware, as though
by instinct, that her life would be very bad indeed should she fail to sympathise with him.
It was still the all-paramount desire of her heart to be in love with him. But she could not
bring herself to say that she sympathised with them in this direct attack that was made on
her own mode of thought.

"Of course, they are a little older than I am," she said, hoping to get out of the difficulty.

"And therefore, the more entitled to consideration. I think you will own that they must know
what is, and what is not, becoming to a lady."

"Do you mean," said she, hardly able to choke a rising sob, "that they--have anything--to find
fault with in me?"

"I have said nothing as to finding fault, Mary."

"Do they think that I do not dress as I ought to do?"

"Why should you ask such a question as that?"

"I don't know what else I am to understand, George. Of course I will do anything that you tell
me. If you wish me to make any change, I will make it. But I hope they won't send me messages
through you."

"I thought you would have been glad to know that they interested themselves about you." In
answer to this Mary pouted, but her husband did not see the pout.

"Of course they are anxious that you should become one of them. We are a very united family.
I do not speak now of my elder brother, who is in a great measure separated from us and is
of a different nature. But my mother, my sisters, and I, have very many opinions in common.
We live together, and have the same way of thinking. Our rank is high, and our means are small.
But to me blood is much more than wealth. We acknowledge, however, that rank demands many sacrifices,
and my sisters endeavour to make those sacrifices most conscientiously. A woman more thoroughly
devoted to good works than Sarah I have never even read of. If you will believe this, you will
understand what they mean, and what I mean, when we say that here at Manor Cross we think more
of personal conduct than of rings and jewels. You wish, Mary, to be one of us; do you not?"

She paused for a moment, and then she answered, "I wish to be always one with you."

He almost wanted to be angry at this, but it was impossible. "To be one with me, dearest,"
he said, "you must be one, also, with them."

"I cannot love them as I do you, George. That, I am sure, is not the meaning of being married."
Then she thought of it all steadily for a minute, and after that, made a further speech. "And
I don't think I can quite dress like them. I'm sure you would not like it if I did."

As she said this she put her second hand back upon his arm.

He said nothing further on the subject till he had brought her back to the house, walking along
by her side almost mute, not quite knowing whether he ought to be offended with her or to take
her part. It was true that he would not have liked her to look like Lady Sarah, but he would
have liked her to make some approach in that direction, sufficient to show submission. He was
already beginning to fear the absence of all control which would befall his young wife in that
London life to which, she was to be so soon introduced, and was meditating whether he could
not induce one of his sisters to accompany them. As to Sarah he was almost hopeless. Amelia
would be of little or no service, though she would be more likely to ingratiate herself with
his wife than the others. Susanna was less strong than Sarah and less amiable than Amelia.
And then, how would it be if Mary were to declare that she would rather begin the campaign
without any of them?

The young wife, as soon as she found herself alone in her own bedroom, sat down and resolved
that she would never allow herself to be domineered by her husband's sisters. She would be
submissive to him in all things, but his authority should not be delegated to them.

CHAPTER VI.

BAD TIDINGS.

About the middle of October, there came a letter from the Marquis of Brotherton to his brother,
which startled them all at Manor Cross very much indeed. In answering Lord George's communication
as to the marriage, the Marquis had been mysterious and disagreeable;--but then he was always
disagreeable and would on occasions take the trouble to be mysterious also. He had warned his
brother that he might himself want the house at Manor Cross; but he had said the same thing
frequently during his residence in Italy, being always careful to make his mother and sisters
understand that they might have to take themselves away any day at a very short warning. But
now the short warning had absolutely come, and had come in such a shape as to upset everything
at Manor Cross, and to upset many things at the Brotherton Deanery. The letter was as follows:--

     "My dear George,

     "I am to be married to the Marchesa Luigi. Her name is Catarina
     Luigi, and she is a widow. As to her age, you can ask herself when
     you see her, if you dare. I haven't dared. I suppose her to be ten
     years younger than myself. I did not expect that it would be so,
     but she says now that she would like to live in England. Of course
     I've always meant to go back myself some day. I don't suppose we
     shall be there before May, but we must have the house got ready.
     My mother and the girls had better look out for a place as soon as
     they can. Tell my mother of course I will allow her the rent of
     Cross Hall, to which indeed she is entitled. I don't think she
     would care to live there, and neither she nor the girls would get
     on with my wife.

     "Yours, B.

     "I am waiting to know about getting the house painted and
     furnished."

When Lord George received this letter, he showed it first in privacy to his sister Sarah. As
the reader will have understood, there had never been any close family affection between the
present Marquis and his brothers and sisters; nor had he been a loving son to his mother. But
the family at Manor Cross had always endeavoured to maintain a show of regard for the head
of the family, and the old Marchioness would no doubt have been delighted had her eldest son
come home and married an English wife. Lady Sarah, in performing what she had considered to
be a family duty, had written regular despatches to her elder brother, telling him everything
that happened about the place,--despatches which he, probably, never read. Now there had come
a blow indeed. Lady Sarah read the letter, and then looked into her brother's face.

"Have you told Mary?" she asked.

"I have told no one."

"It concerns her as much as any of us. Of course, if he has married, it is right that he should
have his house. We ought to wish that he should live hero."

"If he were different from what he is," said Lord George.

"If she is good it may be that he will become different. It is not the thing, but the manner
in which he tells it to us! Did you ever hear her name before?"

"Never."

"What a way he has of mentioning her;--about her age," said Lady Sarah, infinitely shocked.
"Well! Mamma must be told, of course. Why shouldn't we live at Cross Hall? I don't understand
what he means about that. Cross Hall belongs to mamma for her life, as much as Manor Cross
does to him for his."

Just outside the park gate, at the side of the park furthest away from Brotherton, and therefore
placed very much out of the world, there stood a plain substantial house built in the days
of Queen Anne, which had now for some generations been the habitation of the dowager of the
Brotherton family. When the late marquis died, this had become for her life the property of
the Marchioness; but had been ceded by her to her son, in return for the loan of the big house.
The absentee Marquis had made with his mother the best bargain in his power, and had let the
dower house, known as Cross Hall, to a sporting farmer. He now kindly offered to allow his
mother to have the rent of her own house, signifying at the same time his wish that all his
family should remove themselves out of his way.

"He wishes that we should take ourselves off," said Lord George, hoarsely.

"But I do not see why we are to give way to his wishes. George, where are we to go? Of what
use can we be in a strange country? Wherever we are we shall be very poor, but our money will
go further here than elsewhere. How are we to get up new interests in life? The land is his,
but the poor people belong to us as much as to him. It is unreasonable."

"It is frightfully selfish."

"I for one am not prepared to obey him in this," said Lady Sarah. "Of course mamma will do
as she pleases, but I do not see why we should go. He will never live here all the year through."

"He will be sick of it after a month. Will you read the letter to my mother?"

"I will tell her, George. She had better not see the letter, unless she makes a point of it.
I will read it again, and then do you keep it. You should tell Mary at once. It is natural
that she should have built hopes on the improbability of Brotherton's marriage."

Before noon on that day the news had been disseminated through the house. The old Marchioness,
when she first heard of the Italian wife, went into hysterics, and then was partly comforted
by reminding herself that all Italians were not necessarily bad. She asked after the letter
repeatedly; and at last, when it was found to be impossible to explain to her otherwise what
her eldest son meant about the houses, it was shown to her. Then she began to weep afresh.

"Why mayn't we live at Cross Hall, Sarah?" she said.

"Cross Hall belongs to you, mamma, and nothing can hinder you from living there."

"But Augustus says that we are to go away."

The Marchioness was the only one of the family who ever called the Marquis by his Christian
name, and she did so only when she was much disturbed.

"No doubt he expresses a wish that we should do so?"

"Where are we to go to, and I at my age?"

"I think you should live at Cross Hall."

"But he says that we mayn't. We could never go on there if he wants us to go away."

"Why not, mamma? It is your house as much as this is his. If you will let him understand that
when you leave this you mean to go there, he will probably say nothing more about it."

"Mr. Price is living there. I can't make Mr. Price go away directly the painter people come
in here. They'll come to-morrow, perhaps, and what am I to do then?"

The matter was discussed throughout the whole day between Lady Sarah and her mother, the former
bearing the old woman's plaintive weakness with the utmost patience, and almost succeeding,
before the evening came, in inducing her mother to agree to rebel against the tyranny of her
son. There were peculiar difficulties and peculiar hardships in the case. The Marquis could
turn out all the women of his family at a day's notice. He had only to say to them, "Go!" and
they must be gone. And he could be rid of them without even saying or writing another word.
A host of tradesmen would come, and then of course they must go. But Mr. Price at Cross Hall
must have a regular year's notice, and that notice could not now be given till Lady-day next.

"If the worst comes to the worst, mamma we will go and live in Brotherton for the time. Mr.
Holdenough or the Dean would find some place for us." Then the old lady began to ask how Mary
had borne the news; but as yet Lady Sarah had not been able to interest herself personally
about Mary.

Lord George was surprised to find how little his wife was affected by the terrible thunderbolt
which had fallen among them. On him the blow had been almost as terrible as on his mother.
He had taken a house in town, at the instance of the Dean, and in consequence of a promise
made before his marriage, which was sacred to him but which he regretted. He would have preferred
himself to live the whole year through at Manor Cross. Though he had not very much to do there
the place was never dull to him. He liked the association of the big house. He liked the sombre
grandeur of the park. He liked the magistrates' bench, though he rarely spoke a word when he
was there. And he liked the thorough economy of the life. But as to that house in town, though
his wife's fortune would enable him to live there four or five months, he knew that he could
not stretch the income so as to bear the expense of the entire year. And yet, what must he
do now? If he could abandon the house in town, then he could join his mother as to some new
country house. But he did not dare to suggest that the house in town should be abandoned. He
was afraid of the Dean, and afraid, so to say, of his own promise. The thing had been stipulated,
and he did not know how to go back from the stipulation.

"Going to leave Manor Cross," said Mary, when she was told. "Dear me; how odd. Where will they
go to?"

It was evident to her husband from the tone of her voice that she regarded her own house in
Munster Court, for it was her own, as her future residence,--as hers and his. In asking where
"they" would live, she spoke of the other ladies of the family. He had expected that she would
have shown some disappointment at the danger to her future position which this new marriage
would produce. But in regard to that she was, he thought, either perfectly indifferent, or
else a very good actor. In truth, she was almost indifferent. The idea that she might some
day be Lady Brotherton had been something to her, but not much. Her happiness was not nearly
as much disturbed by this marriage as it had been by the allusion made to her dress. She herself
could hardly understand the terrible gloom which seemed during that evening and the whole of
the next day to have fallen on the entire family.

"George, does it make you very unhappy?" she said, whispering to him on the morning of the
second day.

"Not that my brother should marry," he said, "God forbid that I, as a younger brother, should
wish to debar him from any tittle of what belongs to him. If he would marry well it ought to
be a joy to us all."

"Is not this marrying well?"

"What, with a foreigner; with an Italian widow? And then there will, I fear, be great trouble
in finding a comfortable home for my mother."

"Amelia says she can go to Cross Hall."

"Amelia does not know what she is talking of. It would be very long before they could get into
Cross Hall, even if they can go there at all. It would have to be completely furnished, and
there is no money to furnish it."

"Wouldn't your brother----?" Lord George shook his head. "Or papa." Lord George again shook
his head--"What will they do?"

"If it were not for our house in London we might take a place in the country together," said
Lord George.

All the various facts of the proposition now made to her flashed upon Mary's mind at once.
Had it been suggested to her, when she was first asked to marry Lord George, that she should
live permanently in a country house with his mother and sisters, in a house of which she would
not be and could not be the mistress, she would certainly have rejected the offer. And now
the tedium of such a life was plainer to her than it would have been then. But, under her father's
auspices, a pleasant, gay little house in town had been taken for her, and she had been able
to gild the dullness of Manor Cross with the brightness of her future prospects. For four or
five months she would be her own mistress, and would be so in London. Her husband would be
living on her money, but it would be the delight of her heart that he should be happy while
doing so. And all this must be safe and wise, because it was to be done under the advice of
her father. Now it was proposed to her that she should abandon all this and live in some smaller,
poorer, duller country residence, in which she would be the least of the family instead of
the mistress of her own house. She thought of it all for a moment, and then she answered him
with a firm voice.

"If you wish to give up the house in London we will do so."

"It would distress you I fear." When we call on our friends to sacrifice themselves, we generally
wish them also to declare that they like being sacrificed.

"I should be disappointed of course, George."

"And it would be unjust," said he.

"If you wish it I will not say a word against it."

On that afternoon he rode into Brotherton to tell the tidings to the Dean. Upon whatever they
might among them decide, it was expedient that the Dean should be at once told of the marriage.
Lord George, as he thought over it all on horseback, found difficulties on every side. He had
promised that his wife should live in town, and he could not go back from that promise without
injustice. He understood the nature of her lately offered sacrifice, and felt that it would
not liberate his conscience. And then he was sure that the Dean would be loud against any such
arrangement. The money no doubt was Mary's own money and, subject to certain settlement, was
at Lord George's immediate disposal; but he would be unable to endure the Dean's reproaches.
He would be unable also to endure his own, unless--which was so very improbable--the Dean should
encourage him. But how were things to be arranged? Was he to desert his mother and sisters
in their difficulty? He was very fond of his wife; but it had never yet occurred to him that
the daughter of Dean Lovelace could be as important to him as all the ladies of the house of
Germain. His brother purposed to bring his wife to Manor Cross in May, when he would be up
in London. Where at that moment, and after what fashion, would his mother and sisters be living?

The Dean showed his dismay at the marriage plainly enough.

"That's very bad, George," he said; "very bad indeed!"

"Of course we don't like her being a foreigner."

"Of course you don't like his marrying at all. Why should you? You all know enough of him to
be sure that he wouldn't marry the sort of woman you would approve."

"I don't know why my brother should not have married any lady in England."

"At any rate he hasn't. He has married some Italian widow, and it's a misfortune. Poor Mary!"

"I don't think Mary feels it at all."

"She will some day. Girls of her age don't feel that kind of thing at first. So he is going
to come over at once. What will your mother do?"

"She has Cross Hall."

"That man Price is there. He will go out of course?"

"With notice he must go."

"He won't stand about that, if you don't interfere with his land and farm-yard. I know Price.
He's not a bad fellow."

"But Brotherton does not want them to go there," said Lord George, almost in a whisper.

"Does not want your mother to live in her own house! Upon my word the Marquis is considerate
to you all! He has said that plainly, has he? If I were Lady Brotherton I would not take the
slightest heed of what he says. She is not dependent on him. In order that he may be relieved
from the bore of being civil to his own family she is to be sent out about the world to look
for a home in her old age! You must tell her not to listen for a minute to such a proposition."

Lord George, though he put great trust in his father-in-law, did not quite like hearing his
brother spoken of so very freely by a man who was, after all, the son of a tradesman. It seemed
to him as though the Dean made himself almost too intimate with the affairs at Manor Cross,
and yet he was obliged to go on and tell the Dean everything.

"Even if Price went, there must be some delay in getting the house ready."

"The Marquis surely won't turn your mother out before the spring?"

"Tradesmen will have to come in. And then I don't quite know what we are to do as to the----expense
of furnishing the new house. It will cost a couple of thousand pounds, and none of us have
ready money." The Dean assumed a very serious face. "Every spoon and fork at Manor Cross, every
towel and every sheet belongs to my brother."

"Was not the Cross House ever furnished?"

"Many years ago; in my grandmother's time. My father left money for the purpose, but it was
given up to my sister Alice when she married Holdenough." He found himself explaining all the
little intricacies of his family to the Dean, because it was necessary that he should hold
council with some one. "I was thinking of a furnished house for them elsewhere."

"In London?"

"Certainly not there. My mother would not like it, nor would my sisters. I like the country
very much the best myself."

"Not for the whole year?"

"I have never cared to be in London; but, of course, as for Mary and myself that is settled.
You would not wish her to give up the house in Munster Court?"

"Certainly not. It would not be fair to her to ask her to live always under the wing of your
mother and sisters. She would never learn to be a woman. She would always be in leading strings.
Do you not feel that yourself?"

"I feel that beggars cannot be choosers. My mother's fortune is £2000 a year. As you know we
have only 5000l. a piece. There is hardly income enough among us for a house in town and a
house in the country."

The Dean paused a moment, and then replied that his daughter's welfare could not be made subordinate
to that of the family generally. He then said that if any immediate sum of money were required
he would lend it either to the dowager or to Lord George.

Lord George, as he rode home, was angry both with himself and with the Dean. There had been
an authority in the Dean's voice which had grated upon his feelings; of course he intended
to be as good as his word; but, nevertheless, his wife was his wife and subject to his will;
and her fortune had been her own and had not come from the Dean. The Dean took too much upon
himself. And yet, with all that, he had consulted the Dean about everything, and had confessed
the family poverty. The thing, however, was quite certain to him; he could not get out of the
house in town.

During the whole of that day Lady Sarah had been at work with her mother, instigating her to
insist on her own rights, and at last she had succeeded.

"What would our life be, mamma," Lady Sarah had said, "if we were removed altogether into a
new world. Here we are of some use. People know us, and give us credit for being what we are.
We can live after our own fashion, and yet live in accordance with our rank. There is not a
man or a woman or a child in the parish whom I do not know. There is not a house in which you
would not see Amelia's and Susanna's work. We cannot begin all that over again."

"When I am gone, my dear, you must do so."

"Who can say how much may be done before that sad day shall come to us? He may have taken his
Italian wife back again to Italy. Mamma, we ought not to run away from our duties."

On the following morning it was settled among them that the dowager should insist on possession
of her own house at Cross Hall, and a letter was written to the Marquis, congratulating him
of course on his marriage, but informing him at the same time that the family would remain
in the parish.

Some few days later Mr. Knox, the agent for the property, came down from London. He had received
the orders of the Marquis, and would be prepared to put workmen into the house as soon as her
ladyship would be ready to leave it. But he quite agreed that this could not be done at once.
A beginning no doubt might be made while they were still there, but no painting should be commenced
or buildings knocked down or put up till March. It was settled at the same time that on the
first of March the family should leave the house.

"I hope my son won't be angry," the Marchioness said to Mr. Knox.

"If he be angry, my lady, he will be angry without a cause. But I never knew him to be very
angry about anything."

"He always did like to have his own way, Mr. Knox," said the mindful mother.

CHAPTER VII.

"CROSS HALL GATE."

While Mr. Knox was still in the country negociations were opened with Mr. Price, the sporting
farmer, who, like all sporting farmers, was in truth a very good fellow. He had never been
liked by the ladies at Manor Cross, as having ways of his own which were not their ways. He
did not go to church as often as they thought he ought to do; and, being a bachelor, stories
were told about him which were probably very untrue. A bachelor may live in town without any
inquiries as to any of the doings of his life; but if a man live forlorn and unmarried in a
country house, he will certainly become the victim of calumny should any woman under sixty
ever be seen about his place. It was said also of Mr. Price that sometimes, after hunting,
men had been seen to go out of his yard in an uproarious condition. But I hardly think that
old Sir Simon Bolt, the master of the hounds, could have liked him so well, or so often have
entered his house, had there been much amiss there; and as to the fact of there always being
a fox in Cross Hall Holt, which a certain little wood was called about half a mile of the house,
no one even doubted that. But there had always been a prejudice against Price at the great
house, and in this even Lord George had coincided. But when Mr. Knox went to him and explained
to him what was about to happen,--that the ladies would be forced, almost before the end of
winter, to leave Manor Cross and make way for the Marquis, Mr. Price declared that he would
clear out, bag and baggage, top-boots, spurs, and brandy-bottles, at a moment's notice. The
Prices of the English world are not, as a rule, deficient in respect for the marquises and
marchionesses. "The workmen can come in to-morrow," Price said, when he was told that some
preparations would be necessary. "A bachelor can shake down anywhere, Mr. Knox." Now it happened
that Cross Hall House was altogether distinct from the Cross Hall Farm, on which, indeed, there
had been a separate farmhouse, now only used by labourers. But Mr. Price was a comfortable
man, and, when the house had been vacant, had been able to afford himself the luxury of living
there.

So far the primary difficulties lessened themselves when they were well looked in the face.
And yet things did not run altogether smoothly. The Marquis did not condescend to reply to
his brother's letter; but he wrote what was for him a long letter to Mr. Knox, urging upon
the agent the duty of turning his mother and sisters altogether out of the place. "We shall
be a great deal better friends apart," he said. "If they remain there we shall see little or
nothing of each other, and it will be very uncomfortable. If they will settle themselves elsewhere,
I will furnish a house for them; but I don't want to have them at my elbow." Mr. Knox was of
course bound to show this to Lord George, and Lord George was bound to consult Lady Sarah.
Lady Sarah told her mother something of it, but not all; but she told it in such a way that
the old lady consented to remain and to brave her eldest son. As for Lady Sarah herself, in
spite of her true Christianity and real goodness, she did not altogether dislike the fight.
Her brother was her brother, and the head of the family, and he had his privileges; but they
too had their rights, and she was not disposed to submit herself to tyranny. Mr. Knox was therefore
obliged to inform the Marquis in what softest language he could find applicable for the purpose
that the ladies of the family had decided upon removing to the dower-house.

About a month after this there was a meet of the Brotherton Hunt, of which Sir Simon Bolt was
the master, at Cross Hall Gate. The grandfather of the present Germains had in the early part
of the century either established this special pack, or at any rate become the master of it.
Previous to that the hunting probably had been somewhat precarious; but there had been, since
his time, a regular Brotherton Hunt associated with a collar and button of its own,--a blue
collar on a red coat, with B. H. on the buttons,--and the thing had been done well. They had
four days a week, with an occasional bye, and 2500l. were subscribed annually. Sir Simon Bolt
had been the master for the last fifteen years, and was so well known that no sporting pen
and no sporting tongue in England ever called him more than Sir Simon. Cross Hall Gate, a well-loved
meet, was the gate of the big park which opened out upon the road just opposite to Mr. Price's
house. It was an old stone structure, with a complicated arch stretching across the gate itself,
with a lodge on each side. It lay back in a semi-circle from the road, and was very imposing.
In old days no doubt the gate was much used, as the direct traffic from London to Brotherton
passed that way. But the railway had killed the road; and as the nearer road from the Manor
Cross House to the town came out on the same road much nearer to Brotherton, the two lodges
and all the grandeur were very much wasted. But it was a pretty site for a meet when the hounds
were seated on their haunches inside the gate, or moving about slowly after the huntsman's
horse, and when the horses and carriages were clustered about on the high road and inside the
park. And it was a meet, too, much loved by the riding men. It was always presumed that Manor
Cross itself was preserved for foxes, and the hounds were carefully run through the belt of
woods. But half an hour did that, and then they went away to Price's Little Holt. On that side
there were no more gentlemen's places; there was a gorse cover or two and sundry little spinnies;
but the county was a country for foxes to run and men to ride; and with this before them, the
members of the Brotherton Hunt were pleased to be summoned to Cross Hall Gate.

On such occasions Lord George was always there. He never hunted, and very rarely went to any
other meet; but on these occasions he would appear mounted, in black, and would say a few civil
words to Sir Simon, and would tell George Scruby, the huntsman, that he had heard that there
was a fox among the laurels. George would touch his hat and say in his loud, deep voice, "Hope
so, my lord," having no confidence whatever in a Manor Cross fox. Sir Simon would shake hands
with him, make a suggestion about the weather, and then get away as soon as possible; for there
was no sympathy and no common subject between the men. On this occasion Lady Amelia had driven
down Lady Susanna in the pony-carriage, and Lady George was there, mounted, with her father
the Dean, longing to be allowed to go away with the hounds but having been strictly forbidden
by her husband to do so. Mr. Price was of course there, as was also Mr. Knox, the agent, who
had a little shooting-box down in the country, and kept a horse, and did a little hunting.

There was good opportunity for talking as the hounds were leisurely taken through the loose
belt of woods which were by courtesy called the Manor Cross coverts, and Mr. Price took the
occasion of drawing a letter from his pocket and showing it to Mr. Knox.

"The Marquis has written to you!" said the agent in a tone of surprise, the wonder not being
that the Marquis should write to Mr. Price, but that he should write to any one.

"Never did such a thing in his life before, and I wish he hadn't now."

Mr. Knox wished it also when he had read the letter. It expressed a very strong desire on the
part of the Marquis that Mr. Price should keep the Cross Hall House, saying that it was proper
that the house should go with the farm, and intimating the Marquis's wish that Mr. Price should
remain as his neighbour. "If you can manage it, I'll make the farm pleasant and profitable
to you," said the Marquis.

"He don't say a word about her ladyship," said Price; "but what he wants is just to get rid
of 'em all, box and dice."

"That's about it, I suppose," said the agent.

"Then he's come to the wrong shop, that's what he has done, Mr. Knox. I've three more year
of my lease of the farm, and after that, out I must go, I dare say."

"There's no knowing what may happen before that, Price."

"If I was to go, I don't know that I need quite starve, Mr. Knox."

"I don't suppose you will."

"I ain't no family, and I don't know as I'm just bound to go by what a lord says, though he
is my landlord. I don't know as I don't think more of them ladies than I does of him. ----
him, Mr. Knox."

And then Mr. Price used some very strong language indeed. "What right has he to think as I'm
going to do his dirty work? You may tell him from me as he may do his own."

"You'll answer him, Price?"

"Not a line. I ain't got nothing to say to him. He knows I'm a-going out of the house; and
if he don't, you can tell him."

"Where are you going to?"

"Well, I was going to fit up a room or two in the old farmhouse; and if I had anything like
a lease, I wouldn't mind spending three or four hundred pounds there. I was thinking of talking
to you about it, Mr. Knox."

"I can't renew the lease without his approval."

"You write and ask him, and mind you tell him that there ain't no doubt at all as to any going
out of Cross Hall after Christmas. Then, if he'll make it fourteen years, I'll put the old
house up and not ask him for a shilling. As I'm a living sinner, they're on a fox! Who'd have
thought of that in the park? That's the old vixen from the holt, as sure as my name's Price.
Them cubs haven't travelled here yet."

So saying, he rode away, and Mr. Knox rode after him, and there was consternation throughout
the hunt. It was so unaccustomed a thing to have to gallop across Manor Cross Park! But the
hounds were in full cry, through the laurels, and into the shrubbery, and round the conservatory,
close up to the house. Then she got into the kitchen-garden, and back again through the laurels.
The butler and the gardener and the housemaid and the scullery-maid were all there to see.
Even Lady Sarah came to the front door, looking very severe, and the old Marchioness gaped
out of her own sitting-room window upstairs. Our friend Mary thought it excellent fun, for
she was really able to ride to the hounds; and even Lady Amelia became excited as she flogged
the pony along the road. Stupid old vixen, who ought to have known better! Price was quite
right, for it was she, and the cubs in the holt were now finally emancipated from all maternal
thraldom. She was killed ignominiously in the stokehole under the greenhouse,--she who had
been the mother of four litters, and who had baffled the Brotherton hounds half a dozen times
over the cream of the Brotherton country!

"I knew it," said Price in a melancholy tone, as he held up the head which the huntsman had
just dissevered from the body. "She might 'a done better with herself than come to such a place
as this for the last move."

"Is it all over?" asked Lady George.

"That one is pretty nearly all over, miss," said George Scruby, as he threw the fox to the
hounds. "My Lady, I mean, begging your Ladyship's pardon." Some one had prompted him at the
moment. "I'm very glad to see your Ladyship out, and I hope we'll show you something better
before long."

But poor Mary's hunting was over. When George Scruby and Sir Simon and the hounds went off
to the holt, she was obliged to remain with her husband and sisters-in-law.

While this was going on Mr. Knox had found time to say a word to Lord George about that letter
from the Marquis. "I am afraid," he said, "your brother is very anxious that Price should remain
at Cross Hall."

"Has he said anything more?"

"Not to me; but to Price he has."

"He has written to Price?"

"Yes, with his own hand, urging him to stay. I cannot but think it was very wrong." A look
of deep displeasure came across Lord George's face. "I have thought it right to mention it,
because it may be a question whether her Ladyship's health and happiness may not be best consulted
by her leaving the neighbourhood."

"We have considered it all, Mr. Knox, and my mother is determined to stay. We are very much
obliged to you. We feel that in doing your duty by my brother you are anxious to be courteous
to us. The hounds have gone on; don't let me keep you."

Mr. Houghton was of course out. Unless the meets were very distant from his own place, he was
always out. On this occasion his wife also was there. She had galloped across the park as quickly
as anybody, and when the fox was being broken up in the grass before the hall-door, was sitting
close to Lady George. "You are coming on?" she said in a whisper.

"I am afraid not," answered Mary.

"Oh, yes; do come. Slip away with me. Nobody'll see you. Get as far as the gate, and then you
can see that covert drawn."

"I can't very well. The truth is, they don't want me to hunt."

"They! Who is they? 'They' don't want me to hunt. That is, Mr. Houghton doesn't. But I mean
to get out of his way by riding a little forward. I don't see why that is not just as good
as staying behind. Mr. Price is going to give me a lead. You know Mr. Price?"

"But he goes everywhere."

"And I mean to go everywhere. What's the good of half-doing it? Come along."

But Mary had not even thought of rebellion such as this--did not in her heart approve of it,
and was angry with Mrs. Houghton. Nevertheless, when she saw the horsewoman gallop off across
the grass towards the gate, she could not help thinking that she would have been just as well
able to ride after Mr. Price as her old friend Adelaide de Baron. The Dean did go on, having
intimated his purpose of riding on just to see Price's farm.

When the unwonted perturbation was over at Manor Cross Lord George was obliged to revert again
to the tidings he had received from Mr. Knox. He could not keep it to himself. He felt himself
obliged to tell it all to Lady Sarah.

"That he should write to such a man as Mr. Price, telling him of his anxiety to banish his
own mother from her own house!"

"You did not see the letter?"

"No; but Knox did. They could not very well show such a letter to me; but Knox says that Price
was very indignant, and swore that he would not even answer it."

"I suppose he can afford it, George? It would be very dreadful to ruin him."

"Price is a rich man. And after all, if Price were to do all that Brotherton desires him, he
could only keep us out for a year or so. But don't you think you will all be very uncomfortable
here. How will my mother feel if she isn't ever allowed to see him? And how will you feel if
you find that you never want to see his wife?"

Lady Sarah sat silent for a few minutes before she answered him, and then declared for war.
"It is very bad, George; very bad. I can foresee great unhappiness; especially the unhappiness
which must come from constant condemnation of one whom we ought to wish to love and approve
of before all others. But nothing can be so bad as running away. We ought not to allow anything
to drive mamma from her own house, and us from our own duties. I don't think we ought to take
any notice of Brotherton's letter to Mr. Price." It was thus decided between them that no further
notice should be taken of the Marquis's letter to Mr. Price.

CHAPTER VIII.

PUGSBY BROOK.

There was great talking about the old vixen as they all trotted away to Cross Hall Holt;--how
it was the same old fox that they hadn't killed in a certain run last January, and how one
old farmer was quite sure that this very fox was the one which had taken them that celebrated
run to Bamham Moor three years ago, and how she had been the mother of quite a Priam's progeny
of cubs. And now that she should have been killed in a stokehole! While this was going on a
young lady rode up along side of Mr. Price, and said a word to him with her sweetest smile.

"You remember your promise to me, Mr. Price?"

"Surely, Mrs. Houghton. Your nag can jump a few, no doubt."

"Beautifully. Mr. Houghton bought him from Lord Mountfencer. Lady Mountfencer couldn't ride
him because he pulls a little. But he's a perfect hunter."

"We shall find him, Mrs. Houghton, to a moral; and do you stick to me. They generally go straight
away to Thrupp's larches. You see the little wood. There's an old earth there, but that's stopped.
There is only one fence between this and that, a biggish ditch, with a bit of a hedge on this
side, but it's nothing to the horses when they're fresh."

"Mine's quite fresh."

"Then they mostly turn to the right for Pugsby; nothing but grass then for four miles a-head."

"And the jumping?"

"All fair. There's one bit of water,--Pugsby Brook,--that you ought to have as he'll be sure
to cross it ever so much above the bridge. But, lord love you, Mrs. Houghton, that horse'll
think nothing of the brook."

"Nothing at all, Mr. Price. I like brooks."

"I'm afraid he's not here, Price," said Sir Simon, trotting round the cover towards the whip,
who was stationed at the further end.

"Well, Sir Simon, her as we killed came from the holt, you know," said the farmer, mindful
of his reputation for foxes. "You can't eat your cake and have it too, can you, Sir Simon?"

"Ought to be able in a covert like this."

"Well, perhaps we shall. The best lying is down in that corner. I've seen a brace of cubs together
there a score of times." Then there was one short low, dubious, bark, and then another a little
more confirmed. "That's it, Sir Simon. There's your 'cake.'"

"Good hound, Blazer," cried Sir Simon, recognising the voice of his dog. And many of the pack
recognised the well-known sound as plainly as the master, for you might hear the hounds rustling
through the covert as they hurried up to certify to the scent which their old leader had found
for them. The holt though thick was small and a fox had not much chance but by breaking. Once
up the covert and once back again the animal went, and then Dick, the watchful whip, holding
his hand up to his face, holloaed him away. "Gently, gentlemen," shouted Sir Simon, "let them
settle. Now, Mr. Bottomley, if you'll only keep yourself a little steady, you'll find yourself
the better for it at the finish." Mr. Bottomley was a young man from London, who was often
addressed after this fashion, was always very unhappy for a few minutes, and then again forgot
it in his excitement.

"Now, Mr. Price," said Mrs. Houghton in a fever of expectation. She had been dodging backwards
and forwards trying to avoid her husband, and yet unwilling to leave the farmer's side.

"Wait a moment, ma'am; wait a moment. Now we're right; here to the left." So saying Mr. Price
jumped over a low hedge, and Mrs. Houghton followed him, almost too closely. Mr. Houghton saw
it, and didn't follow. He had made his way up, resolved to stop his wife, but she gave him
the slip at the last moment. "Now through the gate, ma'am, and then on straight as an arrow
for the little wood. I'll give you a lead over the ditch, but don't ride quite so close, ma'am."
Then the farmer went away feeling perhaps that his best chance of keeping clear from his too
loving friend was to make the pace so fast that she should not be able quite to catch him.
But Lady Mountfencer's nag was fast too, was fast and had a will of his own. It was not without
a cause that Lord Mountfencer had parted with so good a horse out of his stable. "Have a care,
ma'am," said Price, as Mrs. Houghton canoned against him as they both landed over the big ditch;
"have a care, or we shall come to grief together. Just see me over before you let him take
his jump." It was very good advice, and is very often given; but both ladies and gentlemen,
whose hands are a little doubtful, sometimes find themselves unable to follow it. But now they
were at Thrupp's larches. George Scruby had led the way, as becomes a huntsman, and a score
or more had followed him over the big fence. Price had been going a little to the left, and
when they reached the wood was as forward as any one.

"He won't hang here, Sir Simon," said the farmer, as the master came up, "he never does."

"He's only a cub," said the master.

"The holt cubs this time of the year are nigh as strong as old foxes. Now for Pugsby."

Mrs. Houghton looked round, fearing every moment that her husband would come up. They had just
crossed a road, and wherever there was a road there, she thought, he would certainly be.

"Can't we get round the other side, Mr. Price?" she said.

"You won't be any better nor here."

"But there's Mr. Houghton on the road," she whispered.

"Oh-h-h," ejaculated the farmer, just touching the end of his nose with his finger and moving
gently on through the wood. "Never spoil sport," was the motto of his life, and to his thinking
it was certainly sport that a young wife should ride to hounds in opposition to an old husband.
Mrs. Houghton followed him, and as they got out on the other side, the fox was again away.
"He ain't making for Pugsby's after all," said Price to George Scruby.

"He don't know that country yet," said the huntsman. "He'll be back in them Manor Cross woods.
You'll see else."

The park of Manor Cross lay to the left of them, whereas Pugsby and the desirable grass country
away to Bamham Moor were all to the right. Some men mindful of the big brook and knowing the
whereabouts of the bridge, among whom was Mr. Houghton, kept very much to the right and were
soon out of the run altogether. But the worst of it was that though they were not heading for
their good country, still there was the brook, Pugsby brook, to be taken. Had the fox done
as he ought to have done, and made for Pugsby itself, the leap would have been from grass to
grass; but now it must be from plough to plough, if taken at all. It need hardly be said that
the two things are very different. Sir Simon, when he saw how the land lay, took a lane leading
down to the Brotherton road. If the fox was making for the park he must be right in that direction.
It is not often that a master of hounds rides for glory, and Sir Simon had long since left
all that to younger men. But there were still a dozen riders pressing on, and among them were
the farmer and his devoted follower,--and a gentleman in black.

Let us give praise where praise is due, and acknowledge that young Bottomley was the first
at the brook,--and the first over it. As soon as he was beyond Sir Simon's notice, he had scurried
on across the plough, and being both light and indiscreet, had enjoyed the heartfelt pleasure
of passing George Scruby. George, who hated Mr. Bottomley, grunted out his malediction, even
though no one could hear him. "He'll soon be at the bottom of that," said George, meaning to
imply in horsey phrase that the rider, if he rode over ploughed ground after that fashion,
would soon come to the end of his steed's power. But Bottomley, if he could only be seen to
jump the big brook before any one else, would have happiness enough for a month. To have done
a thing that he could talk about was the charm that Bottomley found in hunting. Alas, though
he rode gallantly at the brook and did get over it, there was not much to talk about; for,
unfortunately, he left his horse behind him in the water. The poor beast going with a rush
off the plough, came with her neck and shoulders against the opposite bank, and shot his rider
well on to the dry land.

"That's about as good as a dead'un," said George, as he landed a yard or two to the right.
This was ill-natured, and the horse in truth was not hurt. But a rider, at any rate a young
rider, should not take a lead from a huntsman unless he is very sure of himself, of his horse,
and of the run of the hounds. The next man over was the gentleman in black, who took it in
a stand, and who really seemed to know what he was about. There were some who afterwards asserted
that this was the Dean, but the Dean was never heard to boast of the performance.

Mrs. Houghton's horse was going very strong with her. More than once the farmer cautioned her
to give him a pull over the plough. And she attempted to obey the order. But the horse was
self-willed, and she was light; and in truth the heaviness of the ground would have been nothing
to him had he been fairly well ridden. But she allowed him to rush with her through the mud.
As she had never yet had an accident she knew nothing of fear, and she was beyond measure excited.
She had been near enough to see that a man fell at the brook, and then she saw also that the
huntsman got over, and also the gentleman in black. It seemed to her to be lovely. The tumble
did not scare her at all, as others coming after the unfortunate one had succeeded. She was
aware that there were three or four other men behind her, and she was determined that they
should not pass her. They should see that she also could jump the river. She had not rid herself
of her husband for nothing. Price, as he came near the water, knew that he had plenty to do,
and knew also how very close to him the woman was. It was too late now to speak to her again,
but he did not fear for his own horse if she would only give him room. He steadied the animal
a yard or two from the margin as he came to the headland that ran down the side of the brook,
and then took his leap.

But Mrs. Houghton rode us though the whole thing was to be accomplished by a rush, and her
horse, true to the manner of horses, insisted on following in the direct track of the one who
had led him so far. When he got to the bank he made his effort to jump high, but had got no
footing for a fair spring. On he went, however, and struck Price's horse on the quarter so
violently as to upset that animal, as well as himself.

Price, who was a thoroughly good horseman, was knocked off, but got on to the bank as Bottomley
had done. The two animals were both in the brook, and when the farmer was able to look round,
he saw that the lady was out of sight. He was in the water immediately himself, but before
he made the plunge he had resolved that he never again would give a lady a lead till he knew
whether she could ride.

Mr. Knox and Dick were soon on the spot, and Mrs. Houghton was extracted. "I'm blessed if she
ain't dead," said the whip, pale as death himself. "H--sh!" said Mr. Knox; "she's not dead,
but I'm afraid she's hurt." Price had come back through the water with the woman in his arms,
and the two horses were still floundering about, unattended. "It's her shoulder, Mr. Knox,"
said Price. "The horse has jammed her against the bank under water." During this time her head
was drooping, and her eyes were closed, and she was apparently senseless. "Do you look to the
horses, Dick. There ain't no reason why they should get their death of cold." By this time
there were a dozen men round them, and Dick and others were able to attend to the ill-used
nags. "Yes; it's her shoulder," continued Price. "That's out, any way. What the mischief will
Mr. Houghton say to me when he comes up!"

There is always a doctor in the field,--sent there by some benignity of providence,--who always
rides forward enough to be near to accidents, but never so forward as to be in front of them.
It has been hinted that this arrangement is professional rather than providential; but the
present writer, having given his mind to the investigation of the matter, is inclined to think
that it arises from the general fitness of things. All public institutions have, or ought to
have, their doctor, but in no institution is the doctor so invariably at hand, just when he
is wanted, as in the hunting field. A very skilful young surgeon from Brotherton was on the
spot almost as soon as the lady was out of the water, and declared that she had dislocated
her shoulder.

What was to be done? Her hat had gone; she had been under the water; she was covered with mud;
she was still senseless, and of course she could neither ride nor walk. There were ever so
many suggestions. Price thought that she had better be taken back to Cross Hall, which was
about a mile and a half distant. Mr. Knox, who knew the country, told them of a side gate in
the Manor Cross wall, which made the great house nearer than Cross Hall. They could get her
there in little over a mile. But how to get her there? They must find a door on which to carry
her. First a hurdle was suggested, and then Dick was sent galloping up to the house for a carriage.
In the meantime she was carried to a labourer's cottage by the roadside on a hurdle, and there
the party was joined by Sir Simon and Mr. Houghton.

"It's all your fault," said the husband, coming up to Price as though he meant to strike him
with his whip. "Part of it is no doubt, sir," said Price, looking his assailant full in the
face, but almost sobbing as he spoke, "and I'm very unhappy about it." Then the husband went
and hung over his wife, but his wife, when she saw him, found it convenient to faint again.

At about two o'clock the cortège with the carriage reached the great house. Sir Simon, after
expressions of deep sorrow had, of course, gone on after his hounds. Mr. Knox, as belonging
to Manor Cross, and Price, and, of course, the doctor, with Mr. Houghton and Mr. Houghton's
groom, accompanied the carriage. When they got to the door all the ladies were there to receive
them. "I don't think we want to see anything more of you," said Mr. Houghton to the farmer.
The poor man turned round and went away home, alone, feeling himself to be thoroughly disgraced.
"After all," he said to himself, "if you come to fault it was she nigh killed me, not me her.
How was I to know she didn't know nothing about it!"

"Now, Mary, I think you'll own that I was right," Lord George said to his wife, as soon as
the sufferer had been put quietly to bed.

"Ladies don't always break their arms," said Mary.

"It might have been you as well as Mrs. Houghton."

"As I didn't go, you need not scold me, George."

"But you were discontented because you were prevented," said he, determined to have the last word.

CHAPTER IX.

MRS. HOUGHTON.

Lady Sarah, who was generally regarded as the arbiter of the very slender hospitalities exercised
at Manor Cross, was not at all well pleased at being forced to entertain Mrs. Houghton, whom
she especially disliked; but, circumstanced as they were, there was no alternative. She had
been put to bed with a dislocated arm, and had already suffered much in having it reduced,
before the matter could be even discussed. And then it was of course felt that she could not
be turned out of the house. She was not only generally hurt, but she was a cousin, also. "We
must ask him, mamma," Lady Sarah said. The Marchioness whined piteously. Mr. Houghton's name
had always been held in great displeasure by the ladies at Manor Cross. "I don't think we can
help it. Mr. Sawyer"--Mr. Sawyer was the very clever young surgeon from Brotherton--"Mr. Sawyer
says that she ought not to be removed for at any rate a week." The Marchioness groaned. But
the evil became less than had been anticipated, by Mr. Houghton's refusal. At first, he seemed
inclined to stay, but after he had seen his wife he declared that, as there was no danger,
he would not intrude upon Lady Brotherton, but would, if permitted, ride over and see how his
wife was progressing on the morrow. "That is a relief," said Lady Sarah to her mother; and
yet Lady Sarah had been almost urgent in assuring Mr. Houghton that they would be delighted
to have him.

In spite of her suffering, which must have been real, and her fainting, which had partly been
so, Mrs. Houghton had had force enough to tell her husband that he would himself be inexpressibly
bored by remaining at Manor Cross, and that his presence would inexpressibly bore "all those
dowdy old women," as she called the ladies of the house. "Besides, what's the use?" she said;
"I've got to lay here for a certain time. You would not be any good at nursing. You'd only
kill yourself with ennui. I shall do well enough, and do you go on with your hunting." He had
assented; but finding her to be well enough to express her opinion as to the desirability of
his absence strongly, thought that she was well enough, also, to be rebuked for her late disobedience.
He began, therefore, to say a word. "Oh! Jeffrey, are you going to scold me," she said, "while
I am in such a state as this!" and then, again, she almost fainted. He knew that he was being
ill-treated, but knowing, also, that he could not avoid it, he went away without a further word.

But she was quite cheerful that evening when Lady George came up to give her her dinner. She
had begged that it might be so. She had known "dear Mary" so long, and was so warmly attached
to her. "Dear Mary" did not dislike the occupation, which was soon found to comprise that of
being head nurse to the invalid. She had never especially loved Adelaide De Baron, and had
felt that there was something amiss in her conversation when they had met at the deanery; but
she was brighter than the ladies at Manor Cross, was affectionate in her manner, and was at
any rate young. There was an antiquity about every thing at Manor Cross, which was already
crushing the spirit of the young bride.

"Dear me! this is nice," said Mrs. Houghton, disregarding, apparently altogether, the pain
of her shoulder; "I declare, I shall begin to be glad of the accident!"

"You shouldn't say that."

"Why not, if I feel it? Doesn't it seem like a thing in a story that I should be brought to
Lord George's house, and that he was my lover only quite the other day?" The idea had never
occurred to Mary, and now that it was suggested to her, she did not like it. "I wonder when
he'll come and see me. It would not make you jealous, I hope."

"Certainly not."

"No, indeed. I think he's quite as much in love with you as ever he was with me. And yet, he
was very, very fond of me once. Isn't it odd that men should change so?"

"I suppose you are changed, too," said Mary,--hardly knowing what to say.

"Well,--yes,--no. I don't know that I'm changed at all. I never told Lord George that I loved
him. And what's more, I never told Mr. Houghton so. I don't pretend to be very virtuous, and
of course I married for an income. I like him very well, and I always mean to be good to him;
that is, if he lets me have my own way. I'm not going to be scolded, and he need not think so."

"You oughtn't to have gone on to-day, ought you?"

"Why not? If my horse hadn't gone so very quick, and Mr. Price at that moment hadn't gone so
very slow, I shouldn't have come to grief, and nobody would have known anything about it. Wouldn't
you like to ride?"

"Yes; I should like it. But are not you exerting yourself too much?"

"I should die if I were made to lie here without speaking to any one. Just put the pillow a
little under me. Now I'm all right. Who do you think was going as well as anybody yesterday?
I saw him."

"Who was it?"

"The very Reverend the Dean of Brotherton, my dear."

"No!"

"But he was. I saw him jump the brook just before I fell into it. What will Mr. Groschut say?"

"I don't think papa cares much what Mr. Groschut says."

"And the Bishop?"

"I'm not sure that he cares very much for the Bishop either. But I am quite sure that he would
not do anything that he thought to be wrong."

"A Dean never does, I suppose."

"My papa never does."

"Nor Lord George, I dare say," said Mrs. Houghton.

"I don't say anything about Lord George. I haven't known him quite so long."

"If you won't speak up for him, I will. I'm quite sure Lord George Germain never in his life
did anything that he ought not to do. That's his fault. Don't you like men who do what they
ought not to do?"

"No," said Mary, "I don't. Everybody always ought to do what they ought to do. And you ought
to go to sleep, and so I shall go away." She knew that it was not all right,--that there was
something fast, and also something vulgar, about this self-appointed friend of hers. But though
Mrs. Houghton was fast, and though she was vulgar, she was a relief to the endless gloom of
Manor Cross.

On the next day Mr. Houghton came, explaining to everybody that he had given up his day's hunting
for the sake of his wife. But he could say but little, and could do nothing, and he did not
remain long. "Don't stay away from the meet another day," his wife said to him; "I shan't get
well any the sooner, and I don't like being a drag upon you." Then the husband went away, and
did not come for the next two days. On the Sunday he came over in the afternoon and stayed
for half-an-hour, and on the following Tuesday he appeared on his way to the meet in top boots
and a red coat. He was, upon the whole, less troublesome to the Manor Cross people than might
have been expected.

Mr. Price came every morning to enquire, and very gracious passages passed between him and
the lady. On the Saturday she was up, sitting on a sofa in a dressing gown, and he was brought
in to see her. "It was all my fault, Mr. Price," she said immediately. "I heard what Mr. Houghton
said to you; I couldn't speak then, but I was so sorry."

"What a husband says, ma'am, at such a time, goes for nothing."

"What husbands say, Mr. Price, very often does go for nothing." He turned his hat in his hand,
and smiled. "If it had not been so, all this wouldn't have happened, and I shouldn't have upset
you into the water. But all the same, I hope you'll give me a lead another day, and I'll take
great care not to come so close to you again." This pleased Mr. Price so much, that as he went
home he swore to himself that if ever she asked him again, he would do just the same as he
had done on the day of the accident.

When Price, the farmer, had seen her, of course it became Lord George's duty to pay her his
compliments in person. At first he visited her in company with his wife and Lady Sarah, and
the conversation was very stiff. Lady Sarah was potent enough to quell even Mrs. Houghton.
But later in the afternoon Lord George came back again, his wife being in the room, and then
there was a little more ease. "You can't think how it grieves me," she said, "to bring all
this trouble upon you." She emphasised the word "you," as though to show him that she cared
nothing for his mother and sisters.

"It is no trouble to me," said Lord George, bowing low. "I should say that it was a pleasure,
were it not that your presence here is attended with so much pain to yourself."

"The pain is nothing," said Mrs. Houghton. "I have hardly thought of it. It is much more than
compensated by the renewal of my intimacy with Lady George Germain." This she said with her
very prettiest manner, and he told himself that she was, indeed, very pretty.

Lady George,--or Mary, as we will still call her, for simplicity, in spite of her promotion,--had
become somewhat afraid of Mrs. Houghton; but now, seeing her husband's courtesy to her guest,
understanding from his manner that he liked her society, began to thaw, and to think that she
might allow herself to be intimate with the woman. It did not occur to her to be in any degree
jealous,--not, at least, as yet. In her innocence she did not think it possible that her husband's
heart should be untrue to her, nor did it occur to her that such a one as Mrs. Houghton could
be preferred to herself. She thought that she knew herself to be better than Mrs. Houghton,
and she certainly thought herself to be the better looking of the two.

Mrs. Houghton's beauty, such as it was, depended mainly on style; on a certain dash and manner
which she had acquired, and which, to another woman, were not attractive. Mary knew that she,
herself, was beautiful. She could not but know it. She had been brought up by all belonging
to her with that belief; and so believing, had taught herself to acknowledge that no credit
was due to herself on that score. Her beauty now belonged entirely to her husband. There was
nothing more to be done with it, except to maintain her husband's love, and that, for the present,
she did not in the least doubt. She had heard of married men falling in love with other people's
wives, but she did not in the least bring home the fact to her own case.

In the course of that afternoon all the ladies of the family sat for a time with their guest.
First came Lady Sarah and Lady Susanna. Mrs. Houghton, who saw very well how the land lay,
rather snubbed Lady Sarah. She had nothing to fear from the dragon of the family. Lady Sarah,
in spite of their cousinship, had called her Mrs. Houghton, and Mrs. Houghton, in return, called
the other Lady Sarah. There was to be no intimacy, and she was only received there because
of her dislocated shoulder. Let it be so. Lord George and his wife were coming up to town,
and the intimacy should be there. She certainly would not wish to repeat her visit to Manor Cross.

"Some ladies do like hunting, and some don't," she said, in answer to a severe remark from
Lady Sarah. "I am one of those who do, and I don't think an accident like that has anything
to do with it."

"I can't say I think it an amusement fit for ladies," said Lady Sarah.

"I suppose ladies may do what clergymen do. The Dean jumped over the brook just before me."
There was not much of an argument in this, but Mrs. Houghton knew that it would vex Lady Sarah,
because of the alliance between the Dean and the Manor Cross family.

"She's a detestable young woman," Lady Sarah said to her mother, "and I can only hope that
Mary won't see much of her up in town."

"I don't see how she can, after what there has been between her and George," said the innocent
old lady. In spite, however, of this strongly expressed opinion, the old lady made her visit,
taking Lady Amelia with her. "I hope, my dear, you find yourself getting better."

"So much better, Lady Brotherton! But I am so sorry to have given you all this trouble; but
it has been very pleasant to me to be here, and to see Lord George and Mary together. I declare
I think hers is the sweetest face I ever looked upon. And she is so much improved. That's what
perfect happiness does. I do so like her."

"We love her very dearly," said the Marchioness.

"I am sure you do. And he is so proud of her!" Lady Sarah had said that the woman was detestable,
and therefore the Marchioness felt that she ought to detest her. But, had it not been for Lady
Sarah, she would have been rather pleased with her guest than otherwise. She did not remain
very long, but promised that she would return on the next day.

On the following morning Mr. Houghton came again, staying only a few minutes; and while he
was in his wife's sitting-room, both Lord George and Mary found them. As they were all leaving
her together, she contrived to say a word to her old lover. "Don't desert me all the morning.
Come and talk to me a bit. I am well now, though they won't let me move about." In obedience
to this summons, he returned to her when his wife was called upon to attend to the ordinary
cloak and petticoat conclave of the other ladies. In regard to these charitable meetings she
had partly carried her own way. She had so far thrown off authority as to make it understood
that she was not to be bound by the rules which her sisters-in-law had laid down for their
own guidance. But her rebellion had not been complete, and she still gave them a certain number
of weekly stitches. Lord George had said nothing of his purpose; but for a full hour before
luncheon he was alone with Mrs. Houghton. If a gentleman may call on a lady in her house, surely
he may, without scandal, pay her a visit in his own. That a married man should chat for an
hour with another man's wife in a country house is not much. Where is the man and where the
woman who has not done that, quite as a matter of course? And yet when Lord George knocked
at the door there was a feeling on him that he was doing something in which he would not wish
to be detected. "This is so good of you," she said. "Do sit down; and don't run away. Your
mother and sisters have been here,--so nice of them, you know; but everybody treats me as though
I oughtn't to open my mouth for above five minutes at a time. I feel as though I should like
to jump the brook again immediately."

"Pray don't do that."

"Well, no; not quite yet. You don't like hunting, I'm afraid?"

"The truth is," said Lord George, "that I've never been able to afford to keep horses."

"Ah, that's a reason. Mr. Houghton, of course, is a rich man; but I don't know anything so
little satisfactory in itself as being rich."

"It is comfortable."

"Oh yes, it is comfortable; but so unsatisfactory! Of course Mr. Houghton can keep any number
of horses; but, what's the use, when he never rides to hounds? Better not have them at all,
I think. I am very fond of hunting myself."

"I daresay I should have liked it had it come in my way early in life."

"You speak of yourself as if you were a hundred years old. I know your age exactly. You are
just seventeen years younger than Mr. Houghton!" To this Lord George had no reply to make.
Of course he had felt that when Miss De Baron had married Mr. Houghton she had married quite
an old man. "I wonder whether you were much surprised when you heard that I was engaged to
Mr. Houghton?"

"I was, rather."

"Because he is so old?"

"Not that altogether."

"I was surprised myself, and I knew that you would be. But what was I to do?"

"I think you have been very wise," said Lord George.

"Yes, but you think I have been heartless. I can see it in your eyes and hear it in your voice.
Perhaps I was heartless;--but then I was bound to be wise. A man may have a profession before
him. He may do anything. But what has a girl to think of? You say that money is comfortable."

"Certainly it is."

"How is she to get it, if she has not got it of her own, like dear Mary?"

"You do not think that I have blamed you."

"But even though you have not, yet I must excuse myself to you," she said with energy, bending
forward from her sofa towards him. "Do you think that I do not know the difference?"

"What difference?"

"Ah, you shouldn't ask. I may hint at it, but you shouldn't ask. But it wouldn't have done,
would it?" Lord George hardly understood what it was that wouldn't have done; but he knew that
a reference was being made to his former love by the girl he had loved; and, upon the whole,
he rather liked it. The flattery of such intrigues is generally pleasant to men, even when
they cannot bring their minds about quick enough to understand all the little ins and outs
of the woman's manoeuvres. "It is my very nature to be extravagant. Papa has brought me up
like that. And yet I had nothing that I could call my own. I had no right to marry any one
but a rich man. You said just now you couldn't afford to hunt."

"I never could."

"And I couldn't afford to have a heart. You said just now, too, that money is very comfortable.
There was a time when I should have found it very, very comfortable to have had a fortune of
my own."

"You have plenty now."

She wasn't angry with him, because she had already found out that it is the nature of men to
be slow. And she wasn't angry with him, again, because, though he was slow, yet also was he
evidently gratified. "Yes," she said, "I have plenty now. I have secured so much. I couldn't
have done without a large income; but a large income doesn't make me happy. It's like eating
and drinking. One has to eat and drink, but yet one doesn't care very much about it. Perhaps
you don't regret hunting very much?"

"Yes I do, because it enables a man to know his neighbours."

"I know that I regret the thing I couldn't afford."

Then a glimmer of what she meant did come across him, and he blushed. "Things will not always
turn out as they are wanted," he said. Then his conscience upbraided him, and he corrected
himself. "But, God knows that I have no reason to complain. I have been fortunate."

"Yes, indeed."

"I sometimes think it is better to remember the good things we have than to regret those that
are gone."

"That is excellent philosophy, Lord George. And therefore I go out hunting, and break my bones,
and fall into rivers, and ride about with such men as Mr. Price. One has to make the best of
it, hasn't one? But you, I see, have no regrets."

He paused for a moment, and then found himself driven to make some attempt at gallantry. "I
didn't quite say that," he replied.

"You were able to re-establish yourself according to your own tastes. A man can always do so.
I was obliged to take whatever came. I think that Mary is so nice."

"I think so too, I can assure you."

"You have been very fortunate to find such a girl; so innocent, so pure, so pretty, and with
a fortune too. I wonder how much difference it would have made in your happiness if you had
seen her before we had ever been acquainted. I suppose we should never have known each other then."

"Who can say?"

"No; no one can say. For myself, I own that I like it better as it is. I have something to
remember that I can be proud of."

"And I something to be ashamed of."

"To be ashamed of!" she said, almost rising in anger.

"That you should have refused me!"

She had got it at last. She had made her fish rise to the fly. "Oh, no," she said; "there can
be nothing of that. If I did not tell you plainly then, I tell you plainly now. I should have
done very wrong to marry a poor man."

"I ought not to have asked you."

"I don't know how that may be," she said in a very low voice, looking down to the ground. "Some
say that if a man loves he should declare his love, let the circumstances be what they may.
I rather think that I agree with them. You at any rate knew that I felt greatly honoured, though
the honour was out of my reach." Then there was a pause, during which he could find nothing
to say. He was trapped by her flattery, but he did not wish to betray his wife by making love
to the woman. He liked her words and her manner; but he was aware that she was a thing sacred
as being another man's wife. "But it is all better as it is," she said with a laugh, "and Mary
Lovelace is the happiest girl of her year. I am so glad you are coming to London, and do so
hope you'll come and see me."

"Certainly I will."

"I mean to be such friends with Mary. There is no woman I like so much. And then circumstances
have thrown us together, haven't they; and if she and I are friends, real friends, I shall
feel that our friendship may be continued,--yours and mine. I don't mean that all this accident
shall go for nothing. I wasn't quite clever enough to contrive it; but I am very glad of it,
because it has brought us once more together, so that we may understand each other. Good-bye,
Lord George. Don't let me keep you longer now. I wouldn't have Mary jealous, you know."

"I don't think there is the least fear of that," he said in real displeasure.

"Don't take me up seriously for my little joke," she said as she put out her left hand. He
took it, and once more smiled, and then left her.

When she was alone there came a feeling on her that she had gone through some hard work with
only moderate success; and also a feeling that the game was hardly worth the candle. She was
not in the least in love with the man, or capable of being in love with any man. In a certain
degree she was jealous, and felt that she owed Mary Lovelace a turn for having so speedily
won her own rejected lover. But her jealousy was not strong enough for absolute malice. She
had formed no plot against the happiness of the husband and wife when she came into the house;
but the plot made itself, and she liked the excitement. He was heavy,--certainly heavy; but
he was very handsome, and a lord; and then, too, it was much in her favour that he certainly
had once loved her dearly.

Lord George, as he went down to lunch, felt himself to be almost guilty, and hardly did more
than creep into the room where his wife and sisters were seated.

"Have you been with Mrs. Houghton?" asked Lady Sarah in a firm voice.

"Yes, I have been sitting with her for the last half hour," he replied; but he couldn't answer
the question without hesitation in his manner. Mary, however, thought nothing about it.

CHAPTER X.

THE DEAN AS A SPORTING MAN.

In Brotherton the Dean's performance in the run from Cross Hall Holt was almost as much talked
of as Mrs. Houghton's accident. There had been rumours of things that he had done in the same
line after taking orders, when a young man,--of runs that he had ridden, and even of visits
which he had made to Newmarket and other wicked places. But, as far as Brotherton knew, there
had been nothing of all this since the Dean had been a dean. Though he was constantly on horseback,
he had never been known to do more than perhaps look at a meet, and it was understood through
Brotherton generally that he had forbidden his daughter to hunt. But now, no sooner was his
daughter married, and the necessity of setting an example to her at an end, than the Dean,
with a rosette in his hat,--for so the story was told,--was after the hounds like a sporting
farmer or a mere country gentleman! On the very next day Mr. Groschut told the whole story
to the Bishop. But Mr. Groschut had not seen the performance, and the Bishop affected to disbelieve
it. "I'm afraid, my lord," said the chaplain, "I'm afraid you'll find it's true." "If he rides
after every pack of dogs in the county, I don't know that I can help it," said the Bishop.
With this Mr. Groschut was by no means inclined to agree. A bishop is as much entitled to cause
inquiries to be made into the moral conduct of a dean as of any country clergyman in his diocese.
"Suppose he were to take to gambling on the turf," said Mr. Groschut, with much horror expressed
in his tone and countenance. "But riding after a pack of dogs isn't gambling on the turf,"
said the Bishop, who, though he would have liked to possess the power of putting down the Dean,
by no means relished the idea of being beaten in an attempt to do so.

And Mr. Canon Holdenough heard of it. "My dear," he said to his wife, "Manor Cross is coming
out strong in the sporting way. Not only is Mrs. Houghton laid up there with a broken limb,
but your brother's father-in-law took the brush on the same day."

"The Dean!" said Lady Alice.

"So they tell me."

"He was always so particular in not letting Mary ride over a single fence. He would hardly
let her go to a meet on horseback."

"Many fathers do what they won't let their daughters do. The Dean has been always giving signs
that he would like to break out a little."

"Can they do anything to him?"

"Oh dear no;--not if he was to hunt a pack of hounds himself, as far as I know."

"But I suppose it's wrong, Canon," said the clerical wife.

"Yes; I think it's wrong because it will scandalise. Everything that gives offence is wrong,
unless it be something that is on other grounds expedient. If it be true we shall hear about
it a good deal here, and it will not contribute to brotherly love and friendship among us clergymen."

There was another canon at Brotherton, one Dr. Pountner, a red-faced man, very fond of his
dinner, a man of infinite pluck, and much attached to the Cathedral, towards the reparation
of which he had contributed liberally. And, having an ear for music, he had done much to raise
the character of the choir. Though Dr. Pountner's sermons were supposed to be the worst ever
heard from the pulpit of the Cathedral, he was, on account of the above good deeds, the most
popular clergyman in the city. "So I'm told you've been distinguishing yourself, Mr. Dean,"
said the Doctor, meeting our friend in the close.

"Have I done so lately, more than is usual with me?" asked the Dean, who had not hitherto heard
of the rumour of his performances.

"I am told that you were so much ahead the other day in the hunting field, that you were unable
to give assistance to the poor lady who broke her arm."

"Oh, that's it! If I do anything at all, though I may do it but once in a dozen years, I like
to do it well, Dr. Pountner. I wish I thought that you could follow my example, and take a
little exercise. It would be very good for you." The Doctor was a heavy man, and hardly walked
much beyond the confines of the Close or his own garden. Though a bold man, he was not so ready
as the Dean, and had no answer at hand. "Yes," continued our friend, "I did go a mile or two
with them, and I enjoyed it amazingly. I wish with all my heart there was no prejudice against
clergymen hunting."

"I think it would be an abominable practice," said Dr. Pountner, passing on.

The Dean himself would have thought nothing more about it had there not appeared a few lines
on the subject in a weekly newspaper called the "Brotherton Church," which was held to be a
pestilential little rag by all the Close. Deans, canons, and minor canons were all agreed as
to this, Dr. Pountner hating the "Brotherton Church" quite as sincerely as did the Dean. The
"Brotherton Church" was edited nominally by a certain Mr. Grease,--a very pious man who had
long striven, but hitherto in vain, to get orders. But it was supposed by many that the paper
was chiefly inspired by Mr. Groschut. It was always very laudatory of the Bishop. It had distinguished
itself by its elaborate opposition to ritual. Its mission was to put down popery in the diocese
of Brotherton. It always sneered at the Chapter generally, and very often said severe things
of the Dean. On this occasion the paragraph was as follows; "There is a rumour current that
Dean Lovelace was out with the Brotherton foxhounds last Wednesday, and that he rode with the
pack all the day, leading the field. We do not believe this, but we hope that for the sake
of the Cathedral and for his own sake, he will condescend to deny the report." On the next
Saturday there was another paragraph, with a reply from the Dean; "We have received from the
Dean of Brotherton the following startling letter, which we publish without comment. What our
opinion on the subject may be our readers will understand.

     "Deanery, November, 187--

     "Sir,--You have been correctly informed that I was out with the
     Brotherton foxhounds on Wednesday week last. The other reports
     which you have published, and as to which after publication, you
     have asked for information, are unfortunately incorrect. I wish I
     could have done as well as my enemies accuse me of doing.

     "I am, Sir,

     "Your humble servant,

     "HENRY LOVELACE.

     "To the Editor of the 'Brotherton Church.'"

The Dean's friends were unanimous in blaming him for having taken any notice of the attack.
The Bishop, who was at heart an honest man and a gentleman, regretted it. All the Chapter were
somewhat ashamed of it. The Minor Canons were agreed that it was below the dignity of a dean.
Dr. Pountner, who had not yet forgotten the allusion to his obesity, whispered in some clerical
ear that nothing better could be expected out of a stable; and Canon Holdenough, who really
liked the Dean in spite of certain differences of opinion, expostulated with him about it.

"I would have let it pass," said the Canon. "Why notice it at all?"

"Because I would not have any one suppose that I was afraid to notice it. Because I would not
have it thought that I had gone out with the hounds and was ashamed of what I had done."

"Nobody who knows you would have thought that."

"I am proud to think that nobody who knows me would. I make as many mistakes as another, and
am sorry for them afterwards. But I am never ashamed. I'll tell you what happened, not to justify
my hunting, but to justify my letter. I was over at Manor Cross, and I went to the meet, because
Mary went. I have not done such a thing before since I came to Brotherton, because there is,--what
I will call a feeling against it. When I was there I rode a field or two with them, and I can
tell you I enjoyed it."

"I daresay you did."

"Then, very soon after the fox broke, there was that brook at which Mrs. Houghton hurt herself.
I happened to jump it, and the thing became talked about because of her accident. After that
we came out on the Brotherton road, and I went back to Manor Cross. Do not suppose that I should
have been ashamed of myself if I had gone on even half a dozen more fields."

"I'm sure you wouldn't."

"The thing in itself is not bad. Nevertheless,--thinking as the world around us does about
hunting,--a clergyman in my position would be wrong to hunt often. But a man who can feel horror
at such a thing as this is a prig in religion. If, as is more likely, a man affects horror,
he is a hypocrite. I believe that most clergymen will agree with me in that; but there is no
clergyman in the diocese of whose agreement I feel more certain than of yours."

"It is the letter, not the hunting, to which I object."

"There was an apparent cowardice in refraining from answering such an attack. I am aware, Canon,
of a growing feeling of hostility to myself."

"Not in the Chapter?"

"In the diocese. And I know whence it comes, and I think I understand its cause. Let what will
come of it I am not going to knock under. I want to quarrel with no man, and certainly with
no clergyman,--but I am not going to be frightened out of my own manner of life or my own manner
of thinking by fear of a quarrel."

"Nobody doubts your courage; but what is the use of fighting when there is nothing to win.
Let that wretched newspaper alone. It is beneath you and me, Dean."

"Very much beneath us, and so is your butler beneath you. But if he asks you a question, you
answer him. To tell the truth I would rather they should call me indiscreet than timid. If
I did not feel that it would be really wrong and painful to my friends I would go out hunting
three days next week, to let them know that I am not to be cowed."

There was a good deal said at Manor Cross about the newspaper correspondence, and some condemnation
of the Dean expressed by the ladies, who thought that he had lowered himself by addressing
a reply to the editor. In the heat of discussion a word or two was spoken by Lady Susanna,--who
entertained special objections to all things low,--which made Mary very angry. "I think papa
is at any rate a better judge than you can be," she said. Between sisters as sisters generally
are, or even sisters-in-laws, this would not be much; but at Manor Cross it was felt to be
misconduct. Mary was so much younger than they were! And then she was the grand-daughter of
a tradesman! No doubt they all thought that they were willing to admit her among themselves
on terms of equality; but then there was a feeling among them that she ought to repay this
great goodness by a certain degree of humility and submission. From day to day the young wife
strengthened herself in a resolution that she would not be humble and would not be submissive.

Lady Susanna, when she heard the words, drew herself up with an air of offended dignity. "Mary,
dear," said Lady Sarah, "is not that a little unkind?"

"I think it is unkind to say that papa is indiscreet," said the Dean's daughter. "I wonder
what you'd all think if I were to say a word against dear mamma." She had been specially instructed
to call the Marchioness mamma.

"The Dean is not my father-in-law," said Lady Amelia, very proudly, as though in making the
suggestion, she begged it to be understood that under no circumstances could such a connection
have been possible.

"But he's my papa, and I shall stand up for him,--and I do say that he must know more about
such things than any lady." Then Lady Susanna got up and marched majestically out of the room.

Lord George was told of this, and found himself obliged to speak to his wife. "I'm afraid there
has been something between you and Susanna, dear."

"She abused papa, and I told her papa knew better than she did, and then she walked out of
the room."

"I don't suppose she meant to--abuse the Dean."

"She called him names."

"She said he was indiscreet."

"That is calling him names."

"No, my dear, indiscreet is an epithet; and even were it a noun substantive, as a name must
be, it could only be one name." It was certainly very hard to fall in love with a man who could
talk about epithets so very soon after his marriage; but yet she would go on trying. "Dear
George," she said, "don't you scold me. I will do anything you tell me, but I don't like them
to say hard things of papa. You are not angry with me for taking papa's part, are you?"

He kissed her, and told her that he was not in the least angry with her; but, nevertheless,
he went on to insinuate, that if she could bring herself to show something of submission to
his sisters, it would make her own life happier and theirs and his. "I would do anything I
could to make your life happy," she said.

CHAPTER XI.

LORD AND LADY GEORGE GO UP TO TOWN.

Time went on, and the day arranged for the migration to London came round. After much delicate
fencing on one side and the other, this was fixed for the 31st January. The fencing took place
between the Dean, acting on behalf of his daughter, and the ladies of the Manor Cross family
generally. They, though they conceived themselves to have had many causes of displeasure with
Mary, were not the less anxious to keep her at Manor Cross. They would all, at any moment,
have gladly assented to an abandonment of the London house, and had taught themselves to look
upon the London house as an allurement of Satan, most unwisely contrived and countenanced by
the Dean. And there was no doubt that, as the Dean acted on behalf of his daughter, so did
they act on behalf of their brother. He could not himself oppose the London house; but he disliked
it and feared it, and now, at last, thoroughly repented himself of it. But it had been a stipulation
made at the marriage; and the Dean's money had been spent. The Dean had been profuse with his
money, and had shown himself to be a more wealthy man than any one at Manor Cross had suspected.
Mary's fortune was no doubt her own; but the furniture had been in a great measure supplied
by the Dean, and the Dean had paid the necessary premium on going into the house. Lord George
felt it to be impossible to change his mind after all that had been done; but he had been quite
willing to postpone the evil day as long as possible.

Lady Susanna was especially full of fears, and, it must be owned, especially inimical to all
Mary's wishes. She was the one who had perhaps been most domineering to her brother's wife,
and she was certainly the one whose domination Mary resisted with the most settled determination.
There was a self-abnegation about Lady Sarah, a downright goodness, and at the same time an
easily-handled magisterial authority, which commanded reverence. After three months of residence
at Manor Cross, Mary was willing to acknowledge that Lady Sarah was more than a sister-in-law,--that
her nature partook of divine omnipotence, and that it compelled respect, whether given willingly
or unwillingly. But to none of the others would her spirit thus humble itself, and especially
not to Lady Susanna. Therefore Lady Susanna was hostile, and therefore Lady Susanna was quite
sure that Mary would fall into great trouble amidst the pleasures of the metropolis.

"After all," she said to her elder sister, "what is £1,500 a year to keep up a house in London?"

"It will only be for a few months," said Lady Sarah.

"Of course she must have a carriage, and then George will find himself altogether in the hands
of the Dean. That is what I fear. The Dean has done very well with himself, but he is not a
man whom I like to trust altogether."

"He is at any rate generous with his money."

"He is bound to be that, or he could not hold up his head at all. He has nothing else to depend
on. Did you hear what Dr. Pountner said about him the other day? Since that affair with the
newspaper, he has gone down very much in the Chapter. I am sure of that."

"I think you are a little hard upon him, Susanna."

"You must feel that he is very wrong about this house in London. Why is a man, because he's
married, to be taken away from all his own pursuits? If she could not accommodate herself to
his tastes, she should not have accepted him."

"Let us be just," said Lady Sarah.

"Certainly, let us be just," said Lady Amelia, who in these conversations seldom took much
part, unless when called upon to support her eldest sister.

"Of course we should be just," said Lady Susanna.

"She did not accept him," said Lady Sarah, "till he had agreed to comply with the Dean's wish
that they should spend part of their time in London."

"He was very weak," said Lady Susanna.

"I wish it could have been otherwise," continued Lady Sarah; "but we can hardly suppose that
the tastes of a young girl from Brotherton should be the same as ours. I can understand that
Mary should find Manor Cross dull."

"Dull!" exclaimed Lady Susanna.

"Dull!" ejaculated Lady Amelia, constrained on this occasion to differ even from her eldest
sister. "I can't understand that she should find Manor Cross dull, particularly while she has
her husband with her."

"The bargain, at any rate, was made," said Lady Sarah, "before the engagement was settled;
and as the money is hers, I do not think we have a right to complain. I am very sorry that
it should be so. Her character is very far from being formed, and his tastes are so completely
fixed that nothing will change them."

"And then there's that Mrs. Houghton!" said Lady Susanna. Mrs. Houghton had of course left
Manor Cross long since; but she had left a most unsatisfactory feeling behind her in the minds
of all the Manor Cross ladies. This arose not only from their personal dislike, but from a
suspicion, a most agonising suspicion, that their brother was more fond than he should have
been of the lady's society. It must be understood that Mary herself knew nothing of this, and
was altogether free from such suspicion. But the three sisters, and the Marchioness under their
tuition, had decided that it would be very much better that Lord George should see no more
of Mrs. Houghton. He was not, they thought, infatuated in such a fashion that he would run
to London after her; but, when in London, he would certainly be thrown into her society. "I
cannot bear to think of it," continued Lady Susanna. Lady Amelia shook her head. "I think,
Sarah, you ought to speak to him seriously. No man has higher ideas of duty than he has; and
if he be made to think of it, he will avoid her."

"I have spoken," replied Lady Sarah, almost in a whisper.

"Well!"

"Well!"

"Was he angry?"

"How did he bear it?"

"He was not angry, but he did not bear it very well. He told me that he certainly found her
to be attractive, but that he thought he had power enough to keep himself free from any such
fault as that. I asked him to promise me not to see her; but he declined to make a promise
which he said he might not be able to keep."

"She is a horrid woman, and Mary. I am afraid, likes her," said Lady Susanna. "I know that
evil will come of it."

Sundry scenes counter to this were enacted at the deanery. Mary was in the habit of getting
herself taken over to Brotherton more frequently than the ladies liked; but it was impossible
that they should openly oppose her visits to her father. On one occasion, early in January,
she had got her husband to ride over with her, and was closeted with the Dean while he was
away in the city. "Papa," she said, "I almost think that I'll give up the house in Munster Court."

"Give it up! Look here, Mary; you'll have no happiness in life unless you can make up your
mind not to allow those old ladies at Manor Cross to sit upon you."

"It is not for their sake. He does not like it, and I would do anything for him."

"That is all very well; and I would be the last to advise you to oppose his wishes if I did
not see that the effect would be to make him subject to his sisters' dominion as well as you.
Would you like him to be always under their thumb?"

"No, papa; I shouldn't like that."

"It was because I foresaw all this that I stipulated so expressly as I did that you should
have a house of your own. Every woman, when she marries, should be emancipated from other domestic
control than that of her husband. From the nature of Lord George's family this would have been
impossible at Manor Cross, and therefore I insisted on a house in town. I could do this the
more freely because the wherewithal was to come from us, and not from them. Do not disturb
what I have done."

"I will not go against you, of course, papa."

"And remember always that this is to be done as much for his sake as for yours. His position
has been very peculiar. He has no property of his own, and he has lived there with his mother
and sisters till the feminine influences of the house have almost domineered him. It is your
duty to assist in freeing him from this." Looking at the matter in the light now presented
to her, Mary began to think that her father was right. "With a husband there should at any
rate be only one feminine influence," he added, laughing.

"I shall not over rule him, and I shall not try," said Mary, smiling.

"At any rate, do not let other women rule him. By degrees he will learn to enjoy London society,
and so will you. You will spend half the year at Manor Cross or the deanery, and by degrees
both he and you will be emancipated. For myself, I can conceive nothing more melancholy than
would be his slavery and yours if you were to live throughout the year with those old women."
Then, too, he said something to her of the satisfaction which she herself would receive from
living in London, and told her that, for her, life itself had hardly as yet been commenced.
She received her lessons with thankfulness and gratitude, but with something of wonder that
he should so openly recommend to her a manner of life which she had hitherto been taught to
regard as worldly.

After that no further hint was given to her that the house in London might yet be abandoned.
When riding back with her husband, she had been clever enough to speak of the thing as a fixed
certainty; and he had then known that he also must regard it as fixed. "You had better not
say anything more about it," he said one day almost angrily to Lady Susanna, and then nothing
more had been said about it--to him.

There were other causes of confusion,--of terrible confusion,--at Manor Cross, of confusion
so great that from day to day the Marchioness would declare herself unable to go through the
troubles before her. The workmen were already in the big house preparing for the demolition
and reconstruction of everything as soon as she should be gone; and other workmen were already
demolishing and reconstructing Cross Hall. The sadness of all this and the weight on the old
lady's mind were increased by the fact that no member of the family had received so much even
as a message from the Marquis himself since it had been decided that his wishes should not
be obeyed. Over and over again the dowager attempted to give way, and suggested that they should
all depart and be out of sight. It seemed to her that when a marquis is a marquis he ought
to have his own way, though it be never so unreasonable. Was he not the head of the family?
But Lady Sarah was resolved, and carried her point. Were they all to be pitched down in some
strange corner, where they would be no better than other women, incapable of doing good or
exercising influence, by the wish of one man who had never done any good anywhere, or used
his own influence legitimately? Lady Sarah was no coward, and Lady Sarah stuck to Cross Hall,
though in doing so she had very much to endure. "I won't go out, my Lady," said Price, "not
till the day when her Ladyship is ready to come in. I can put up with things, and I'll see
as all is done as your Ladyship wishes." Price, though he was a sporting farmer, and though
men were in the habit of drinking cherry brandy at his house, and though naughty things had
been said about him, had in these days become Lady Sarah's prime minister at Cross Hall, and
was quite prepared in that capacity to carry on war against the Marquis.

When the day came for the departure of Mary and her husband, a melancholy feeling pervaded
the whole household. A cook had been sent up from Brotherton who had lived at Manor Cross many
years previously. Lord George took a man who had waited on himself lately at the old house,
and Mary had her own maid who had come with her when she married. They had therefore been forced
to look for but one strange servant. But this made the feeling the stronger that they would
all be strange up in London. This was so strong with Lord George that it almost amounted to
fear. He knew that he did not know how to live in London. He belonged to the Carlton, as became
a conservative nobleman; but he very rarely entered it, and never felt himself at home when
he was there. And Mary, though she had been quite resolved since the conversation with her
father that she would be firm about her house, still was not without her own dread. She herself
had no personal friends in town,--not one but Mrs. Houghton, as to whom she heard nothing but
evil words from the ladies around her. There had been an attempt made to get one of the sisters
to go up with them for the first month. Lady Sarah had positively refused, almost with indignation.
Was it to be supposed that she would desert her mother at so trying a time? Lady Amelia was
then asked, and with many regrets declined the invitation. She had not dared to use her own
judgment, and Lady Sarah had not cordially advised her to go. Lady Sarah had thought that Lady
Susanna would be the most useful. But Lady Susanna was not asked. There were a few words on
the subject between Lord George and his wife. Mary, remembering her father's advice, had determined
that she would not be sat upon, and had whispered to her husband that Susanna was always severe
to her. When, therefore, the time came, they departed from Manor Cross without any protecting
spirit.

There was something sad in this, even to Mary. She knew that she was taking her husband away
from the life he liked, and that she, herself, was going to a life as to which she could not
even guess, whether she would like it or not. But she had the satisfaction of feeling that
she was at last going to begin to live as a married woman. Hitherto she had been treated as
a child. If there was danger, there was, at any rate, the excitement which danger produces.
"I am almost glad that we are going alone, George," she said. "It seems to me that we have
never been alone yet."

He wished to be gracious and loving to her, and yet he was not disposed to admit anything which
might seem to imply that he had become tired of living with his own family. "It is very nice,
but----"

"But what, dear?"

"Of course I am anxious about my mother just at present."

"She is not to move for two months yet."

"No,--not to move; but there are so many things to be done."

"You can run down whenever you please?"

"That's expensive; but of course it must be done."

"Say that you'll like being with me alone." They had the compartment of the railway carriage
all to themselves, and she, as she spoke, leaned against him, inviting him to caress her. "You
don't think it a trouble, do you, having to come and live with me?" Of course he was conquered,
and said, after his nature, what prettiest things he could to her, assuring her that he would
sooner live with her than with any one in the world, and promising that he would always endeavour
to make her happy. She knew that he was doing his best to be a loving husband, and she felt,
therefore, that she was bound to be loyal in her endeavours to love him; but at the same time,
at the very moment in which she was receiving his words with outward show of satisfied love,
her imagination was picturing to her something else which would have been so immeasurably superior,
if only it had been possible.

That evening they dined together, alone; and it was the first time that they had ever done
so, except at an inn. Never before had been imposed on her the duty of seeing that his dinner
was prepared for him. There certainly was very little of duty to perform in the matter, for
he was a man indifferent as to what he ate, or what he drank. The plainness of the table at
Manor Cross had surprised Mary, after the comparative luxury of the deanery. All her lessons
at Manor Cross had gone to show that eating was not a delectation to be held in high esteem.
But still she was careful that everything around him should be nice. The furniture was new,
the glasses and crockery were new. Few, if any, of the articles used, had ever been handled
before. All her bridal presents were there; and no doubt there was present to her mind the
fact that everything in the house had in truth been given to him by her. If only she could
make the things pleasant! If only he would allow himself to be taught that nice things are
nice! She hovered around him, touching him every now and then with her light fingers, moving
a lock of his hair, and then stooping over him and kissing his brow. It might still be that
she would be able to galvanise him into that lover's vitality, of which she had dreamed. He
never rebuffed her; he did not scorn her kisses, or fail to smile when his hair was moved;
he answered every word she spoke to him carefully and courteously; he admired her pretty things
when called upon to admire them. But through it all, she was quite aware that she had not galvanised
him as yet.

Of course there were books. Every proper preparation had been made for rendering the little
house pleasant. In the evening she took from her shelf a delicate little volume of poetry,
something exquisitely bound, pretty to look at, and sweet to handle, and settled herself down
to be happy in her own drawing-room. But she soon looked up from the troubles of Aurora Leigh
to see what her husband was doing. He was comfortable in his chair, but was busy with the columns
of the Brothershire Herald.

"Dear me, George, have you brought that musty old paper up here?"

"Why shouldn't I read the Herald here, as well as at Manor Cross?"

"Oh! yes, if you like it."

"Of course I want to know what is being done in the county." But when next she looked, the
county had certainly faded from his mind, for he was fast asleep.

On that occasion she did not care very much for Aurora Leigh. Her mind was hardly tuned to
poetry of that sort. The things around her were too important to allow her mind to indulge
itself with foreign cares. And then she found herself looking at the watch. At Manor Cross
ten o'clock every night brought all the servants into the drawing-room. First the butler would
come and place the chairs, and then the maids, and then the coachman and footman would follow.
Lord George read the prayers, and Mary had always thought them to be very tiring. But she now
felt that it would almost be a relief if the butler would come in and place the chairs.

CHAPTER XII.

MISS MILDMAY AND JACK DE BARON.

Lady George was not left long in her new house without visitors. Early on the day after her
arrival, Mrs. Houghton came to her, and began at once, with great volubility, to explain how
the land lay, and to suggest how it should be made to lie for the future. "I am so glad you
have come. As soon, you know, as they positively forbade me to get on horseback again this
winter, I made up my mind to come to town. What is there to keep me down there if I don't ride?
I promised to obey if I was brought here,--and to disobey if I was left there. Mr. Houghton
goes up and down, you know. It is hard upon him, poor old fellow. But then the other thing
would be harder on me. He and papa are together somewhere now, arranging about the spring meetings.
They have got their stables joined, and I know very well who will have the best of that. A
man has to get up very early to see all round papa. But Mr. Houghton is so rich, it doesn't
signify. And now, my dear, what are you going to do? and what is Lord George going to do? I
am dying to see Lord George. I dare say you are getting a little tired of him by this time."

"Indeed, I'm not."

"You haven't picked up courage enough yet to say so; that's it, my dear. I've brought cards
from Mr. Houghton, which means to say that though he is down somewhere at Newmarket in the
flesh he is to be supposed to have called upon you and Lord George. And now we want you both
to come and dine with us on Monday. I know Lord George is particular, and so I've brought a
note. You can't have anything to do yet, and of course you'll come. Houghton will be back on
Sunday, and goes down again on Tuesday morning. To hear him talk about it you'd think he was
the keenest man in England across a country. Say that you'll come."

"I'll ask Lord George."

"Fiddle de dee. Lord George will be only too delighted to come and see me. I've got such a
nice cousin to introduce to you; not one of the Germain sort, you know, who are all perhaps
a little slow. This man is Jack De Baron, a nephew of papa's. He's in the Coldstreams, and
I do think you'll like him. There's nothing on earth he can't do, from waltzing down to polo.
And old Mildmay will be there, and Guss Mildmay, who is dying in love with Jack."

"And is Jack dying in love with Guss?"

"Oh! dear no; not a bit. You needn't be afraid. Jack De Baron has just £500 a year and his
commission, and must, I should say, be over head and ears in debt. Miss Mildmay may perhaps
have £5,000 for her fortune. Put this and that together, and you can hardly see anything comfortable
in the way of matrimony, can you?"

"Then I fear your----Jack is mercenary."

"Mercenary;--of course he's mercenary. That is to say, he doesn't want to go to destruction
quite at one leap. But he's awfully fond of falling in love, and when he is in love he'll do
almost anything,--except marry."

"Then if I were you, I shouldn't ask--Guss to meet him."

"She can fight her own battles, and wouldn't thank me at all if I were to fight them for her
after that fashion. There'll be nobody else except Houghton's sister, Hetta. You never met
Hetta Houghton?"

"I've heard of her."

"I should think so. 'Not to know her,'--I forget the words; but if you don't know Hetta Houghton,
you're just nowhere. She has lots of money, and lives all alone, and says whatever comes uppermost,
and does what she pleases. She goes everywhere, and is up to everything. I always made up my
mind I wouldn't be an old maid, but I declare I envy Hetta Houghton. But then she'd be nothing
unless she had money. There'll be eight of us, and at this time of the year we dine at half-past
seven, sharp. Can I take you anywhere? The carriage can come back with you?"

"Thank you, no. I am going to pick Lord George up at the Carlton at four."

"How nice! I wonder how long you'll go on picking up Lord George at the Carlton."

She could only suppose, when her friend was gone, that this was the right kind of thing. No
doubt Lady Susanna had warned her against Mrs. Houghton, but then she was not disposed to take
Lady Susanna's warnings on any subject. Her father had known that she intended to know the
woman; and her father, though he had cautioned her very often as to the old women at Manor
Cross, as he called them, had never spoken a word of caution to her as to Mrs. Houghton. And
her husband was well aware of the intended intimacy. She picked up her husband, and rather
liked being kept waiting a few minutes at the club door in her brougham. Then they went together
to look at a new picture, which was being exhibited by gas-light in Bond Street, and she began
to feel that the pleasures of London were delightful. "Don't you think those two old priests
are magnificent?" she said, pressing on his arm, in the obscurity of the darkened chamber.
"I don't know that I care much about old priests," said Lord George.

"But the heads are so fine."

"I dare say. Sacerdotal pictures never please me. Didn't you say you wanted to go to Swann
and Edgar's?" He would not sympathize with her about pictures, but perhaps she would be able
to find out his taste at last.

He seemed quite well satisfied to dine with the Houghtons, and did, in fact, call at the house
before that day came round. "I was in Berkeley Square this morning," he said one day, "but
I didn't find any one."

"Nobody ever is at home, I suppose," she said. "Look here. There have been Lady Brabazon, and
Mrs. Patmore Green, and Mrs. Montacute Jones. Who is Mrs. Montacute Jones?"

"I never heard of her."

"Dear me; how very odd. I dare say it was kind of her to come. And yesterday the Countess of
Care called. Is not she some relative?"

"She is my mother's first cousin."

"And then there was dear old Miss Tallowax. And I wasn't at home to see one of them."

"No one I suppose ever is at home in London unless they fix a day for seeing people."

Lady George, having been specially asked to come "sharp" to her friend's dinner party, arrived
with her husband exactly at the hour named, and found no one in the drawing-room. In a few
minutes Mrs. Houghton hurried in, apologising. "It's all Mr. Houghton's fault indeed, Lord
George. He was to have been in town yesterday, but would stay down and hunt to-day. Of course
the train was late, and of course he was so tired that he couldn't dress without going to sleep
first." As nobody else came for a quarter of an hour Mrs. Houghton had an opportunity of explaining
some things. "Has Mrs. Montacute Jones called? I suppose you were out of your wits to find
out who she was. She's a very old friend of papa's, and I asked her to call. She gives awfully
swell parties, and has no end of money. She was one of the Montacutes of Montacute, and so
she sticks her own name on to her husband's. He's alive, I believe, but he never shews. I think
she keeps him somewhere down in Wales."

"How odd!"

"It is a little queer, but when you come to know her you'll find it will make no difference.
She's the ugliest old woman in London, but I'd be as ugly as she is to have her diamonds."

"I wouldn't," said Mary.

"Your husband cares about your appearance," said Mrs. Houghton, turning her eyes upon Lord
George. He simpered and looked pleased and did not seem to be at all disgusted by their friend's
slang, and yet had she talked of "awfully swell" parties, he would, she was well aware, have
rebuked her seriously.

Miss Houghton--Hetta Houghton--was the first to arrive, and she somewhat startled Mary by the
gorgeous glories of her dress, though Mrs. Houghton afterwards averred that she wasn't "a patch
upon Mrs. Montacute Jones." But Miss Houghton was a lady, and though over forty years of age,
was still handsome.

"Been hunting to-day, has he?" she said. "Well, if he likes it, I shan't complain. But I thought
he liked his ease too well to travel fifty miles up to town after riding about all day."

"Of course he's knocked up, and at his age it's quite absurd," said the young wife. "But Hetta,
I want you to know my particular friend Lady George Germain. Lord George, if he'll allow me
to say so, is a cousin, though I'm afraid we have to go back to Noah to make it out."

"Your great-grandmother was my great-grandmother's sister. That's not so very far off."

"When you get to grandmothers no fellow can understand it, can they, Mary?" Then came Mr. and
Miss Mildmay. He was a gray-haired old gentleman, rather short and rather fat, and she looked
to be just such another girl as Mrs. Houghton herself had been, though blessed with more regular
beauty. She was certainly handsome, but she carried with her that wearied air of being nearly
worn out by the toil of searching for a husband which comes upon some young women after the
fourth or fifth year of their labours. Fortune had been very hard upon Augusta Mildmay. Early
in her career she had fallen in love, while abroad, with an Italian nobleman, and had immediately
been carried off home by her anxious parents. Then in London she had fallen in love again with
an English nobleman, an eldest son, with wealth of his own. Nothing could be more proper, and
the young man had fallen also in love with her. All her friends were beginning to hate her
with virulence, so lucky had she been! When on a sudden, the young lord told her that the match
would not please his father and mother, and that therefore there must be an end of it. What
was there to be done! All London had talked of it; all London must know the utter failure.
Nothing more cruel, more barefaced, more unjust had ever been perpetrated. A few years since
all the Mildmays in England, one after another, would have had a shot at the young nobleman.
But in these days there seems to be nothing for a girl to do but to bear it and try again.
So Augusta Mildmay bore it and did try again; tried very often again. And now she was in love
with Jack De Baron. The worst of Guss Mildmay was that, through it all, she had a heart and
would like the young men,--would like them, or perhaps dislike them, equally to her disadvantage.
Old gentlemen, such as was Mr. Houghton, had been willing to condone all her faults, and all
her loves, and to take her as she was. But when the moment came, she would not have her Houghton,
and then she was in the market again. Now a young woman entering the world cannot make a greater
mistake than not to know her own line, or, knowing it, not to stick to it. Those who are thus
weak are sure to fall between two stools. If a girl chooses to have a heart, let her marry
the man of her heart, and take her mutton chops and bread and cheese, her stuff gown and her
six children, as they may come. But if she can decide that such horrors are horrid to her,
and that they must at any cost be avoided, then let her take her Houghton when he comes, and
not hark back upon feelings and fancies, upon liking and loving, upon youth and age. If a girl
has money and beauty too, of course she can pick and choose. Guss Mildmay had no money to speak
of, but she had beauty enough to win either a working barrister or a rich old sinner. She was
quite able to fall in love with the one and flirt with the other at the same time; but when
the moment for decision came, she could not bring herself to put up with either. At present
she was in real truth in love with Jack De Baron, and had brought herself to think that if
Jack would ask her, she would risk everything. But were he to do so, which was not probable,
she would immediately begin to calculate what could be done by Jack's moderate income and her
own small fortune. She and Mrs. Houghton kissed each other affectionately, being at the present
moment close in each other's confidences, and then she was introduced to Lady George. "Adelaide
hasn't a chance," was Miss Mildmay's first thought as she looked at the young wife.

Then came Jack De Baron. Mary was much interested in seeing a man of whom she had heard so
striking an account, and for the love of whom she had been told that a girl was almost dying.
Of course all that was to be taken with many grains of salt; but still the fact of the love
and the attractive excellence of the man had been impressed upon her. She declared to herself
at once that his appearance was very much in his favour, and a fancy passed across her mind
that he was somewhat like that ideal man of whom she herself had dreamed, ever so many years
ago as it seemed to her now, before she had made up her mind that she would change her ideal
and accept Lord George Germain. He was about the middle height, light haired, broad shouldered,
with a pleasant smiling mouth and well formed nose; but above all, he had about him that pleasure-loving
look, that appearance of taking things jauntily and of enjoying life, which she in her young
girlhood had regarded as being absolutely essential to a pleasant lover. There are men whose
very eyes glance business, whose every word imports care, who step as though their shoulders
were weighed with thoughtfulness, who breathe solicitude, and who seem to think that all the
things of life are too serious for smiles. Lord George was such a man, though he had in truth
very little business to do. And then there are men who are always playfellows with their friends,
who--even should misfortune be upon them,--still smile and make the best of it, who come across
one like sunbeams, and who, even when tears are falling, produce the tints of a rainbow. Such
a one Mary Lovelace had perhaps seen in her childhood and had then dreamed of him. Such a one
was Jack De Baron, at any rate to the eye.

And such a one in truth he was. Of course the world had spoiled him. He was in the Guards.
He was fond of pleasure. He was fairly well off in regard to all his own wants, for his cousin
had simply imagined those debts with which ladies are apt to believe that young men of pleasure
must be overwhelmed. He had gradually taught himself to think that his own luxuries and his
own comforts should in his own estimation be paramount to everything. He was not naturally
selfish, but his life had almost necessarily engendered selfishness. Marrying had come to be
looked upon as an evil,--as had old age;--not of course an unavoidable evil, but one into which
a man will probably fall sooner or later. To put off marriage as long as possible, and when
it could no longer be put off to marry money was a part of his creed. In the meantime the great
delight of his life came from women's society. He neither gambled nor drank. He hunted and
fished, and shot deer and grouse, and occasionally drove a coach to Windsor. But little love
affairs, flirtation, and intrigues, which were never intended to be guilty, but which now and
again had brought him into some trouble, gave its charm to his life. On such occasions he would
too, at times, be very badly in love, assuring himself sometimes with absolute heroism that
he would never again see this married woman, or declaring to himself in moments of self-sacrificial
grandness that he would at once marry that unmarried girl. And then, when he had escaped from
some especial trouble, he would take to his regiment for a month, swearing to himself that
for the next year he would see no women besides his aunts and his grandmother. When making
this resolution he might have added his cousin Adelaide. They were close friends, but between
them there had never been the slightest spark of a flirtation.

In spite of all his little troubles Captain De Baron was a very popular man. There was a theory
abroad about him that he always behaved like a gentleman, and that his troubles were misfortunes
rather than faults. Ladies always liked him, and his society was agreeable to men because he
was neither selfish nor loud. He talked only a little, but still enough not to be thought dull.
He never bragged or bullied or bounced. He didn't want to shoot more deer or catch more salmon
than another man. He never cut a fellow down in the hunting-field. He never borrowed money,
but would sometimes lend it when a reason was given. He was probably as ignorant as an owl
of anything really pertaining to literature, but he did not display his ignorance. He was regarded
by all who knew him as one of the most fortunate of men. He regarded himself as being very
far from blessed, knowing that there must come a speedy end to the things which he only half
enjoyed, and feeling partly ashamed of himself in that he had found for himself no better part.

"Jack," said Mrs. Houghton, "I can't blow you up for being late, because Mr. Houghton has not
yet condescended to shew himself. Let me introduce you to Lady George Germain." Then he smiled
in his peculiar way, and Mary thought his face the most beautiful she had ever seen. "Lord
George Germain,--who allows me to call him my cousin, though he isn't as near as you are. My
sister-in-law, you know." Jack shook hands with the old lady in his most cordial manner. "I
think you have seen Mr. Mildmay before, and Miss Mildmay." Mary could not but look at the greeting
between the two, and she saw that Miss Mildmay almost turned up her nose at him. She was quite
sure that Mrs. Houghton had been wrong about the love. There had surely only been a pretence
of love. But Mrs. Houghton had been right, and Mary had not yet learned to read correctly the
signs which men and women hang out.

At last Mr. Houghton came down. "Upon my word," said his wife, "I wonder you ain't ashamed
to shew yourself."

"Who says I'm not ashamed? I'm very much ashamed. But how can I help it if the trains won't
keep their time? We were hunting all day to-day,--nothing very good, Lord George, but on the
trot from eleven to four. That tires a fellow, you know. And the worst of it is I've got to
do it again on Wednesday, Thursday, and Saturday."

"Is there a necessity?" asked Lord George.

"When a man begins that kind of thing he must go through with it. Hunting is like women. It's
a jealous sport. Lady George, may I take you down to dinner? I am so sorry to have kept you
waiting."

CHAPTER XIII.

MORE NEWS FROM ITALY.

Mr. Houghton took Lady George down to dinner; but Jack De Baron sat on his left hand. Next
to him was Augusta Mildmay, who had been consigned to his care. Then came Lord George sitting
opposite to his host at a round table, with Mrs. Houghton at his right hand. Mrs. Mildmay and
Miss Hetta Houghton filled up the vacant places. To all this a great deal of attention had
been given by the hostess. She had not wished to throw her cousin Jack and Miss Mildmay together.
She would probably have said to a confidential friend that "there had been enough of all that."
In her way she liked Guss Mildmay; but Guss was not good enough to marry her cousin. Guss herself
must know that such a marriage was impossible. She had on an occasion said a word or two to
Guss upon the subject. She had thought that a little flirtation between Jack and her other
friend Lady George might put things right; and she had thought, too,--or perhaps felt rather
than thought,--that Lord George had emancipated himself from the thraldom of his late love
rather too quickly. Mary was a dear girl. She was quite prepared to make Mary her friend, being
in truth somewhat sick of the ill-humours and disappointments of Guss Mildmay; but it might
be as well that Mary should be a little checked in her triumph. She herself had been obliged
to put up with old Mr. Houghton. She never for a moment told herself that she had done wrong;
but of course she required compensation. When she was manoeuvring she never lost sight of her
manoeuvres. She had had all this in her mind when she made up her little dinner-party. She
had had it all in her mind when she arranged the seats. She didn't want to sit next to Jack
herself, because Jack would have talked to her to the exclusion of Lord George, so she placed
herself between Lord George and Mr. Mildmay. It had been necessary that Mr. Mildmay should
take Miss Houghton down to dinner, and therefore she could not separate Guss from Jack De Baron.
Anybody who understands dinner-parties will see it all at a glance. But she was convinced that
Jack would devote himself to Lady George at his left hand; and so he did.

"Just come up to town, haven't you?" said Jack.

"Only last week."

"This is the nicest time in the year for London, unless you do a deal of hunting; then it's
a grind."

"I never hunt at all; Lord George won't let me."

"I wish some one wouldn't let me. It would save me a deal of money, and a great deal of misery.
It's all a delusion and a snare. You never get a run nowadays."

"Do you think so? I'd rather hunt than do anything."

"That's because you are not let to do it; the perversity of human nature, you know! The only
thing I'm not allowed to do is to marry, and it's the only thing I care for."

"Who prevents it, Captain de Baron?"

"There's a new order come out from the Horse Guards yesterday. No one under a field officer
is to marry unless he has got £2,000 a year."

"Marrying is cheaper than hunting."

"Of course, Lady George, you may buy your horses cheap or dear, and you may do the same with
your wives. You may have a cheap wife who doesn't care for dress, and likes to sit at home
and read good books."

"That's just what I do."

"But then they're apt to go wrong and get out of order."

"How do you mean? I shan't get out of order, I hope."

"The wheels become rusty, don't you think? and then they won't go as they ought. They scold
and turn up their noses. What I want to find is perfect beauty, devoted affection, and £50,000."

"How modest you are."

In all this badinage there was not much to make a rival angry; but Miss Mildmay, who heard
a word or two now and then, was angry. He was talking to a pretty woman about marriage and
money, and of course that amounted to flirtation. Lord George, on her other hand, now and then
said a word to her; but he was never given to saying many words, and his attention was nearly
monopolised by his hostess. She had heard the last sentence, and determined to join the conversation.

"If you had the £50,000, Captain De Baron," she said, "I think you would manage to do without
the beauty and the devoted affection."

"That's ill-natured, Miss Mildmay, though it may be true. Beggars can't be choosers. But you've
known me a long time, and I think it's unkind that you should run me down with a new acquaintance.
Suppose I was to say something bad of you."

"You can say whatever you please, Captain De Baron."

"There is nothing bad to say, of course, except that you are always down on a poor fellow in
distress. Don't you think it's a grand thing to be good-natured, Lady George?"

"Indeed I do. It's almost better than being virtuous."

"Ten to one. I don't see the good of virtue myself. It always makes people stingy and cross
and ill-mannered. I think one should always promise to do everything that is asked. Nobody
would be fool enough to expect you to keep your word afterwards, and you'd give a lot of pleasure."

"I think promises ought to be kept, Captain De Baron."

"I can't agree to that. That's bondage, and it puts an embargo on the pleasant way of living
that I like. I hate all kind of strictness, and duty, and self-denying, and that kind of thing.
It's rubbish. Don't you think so?"

"I suppose one has to do one's duty."

"I don't see it. I never do mine."

"Suppose there were a battle to fight."

"I should get invalided at once. I made up my mind to that long ago. Fancy the trouble of it.
And when they shoot you they don't shoot you dead, but knock half your face away, or something
of that sort. Luckily we live in an island, and haven't much fighting to do. If we hadn't lived
in an island I should never have gone into the army."

This was not flirting certainly. It was all sheer nonsense,--words without any meaning in them.
But Mary liked it. She decidedly would not have liked it had it ever occurred to her that the
man was flirting with her. It was the very childishness of the thing that pleased her,--the
contrast to conversation at Manor Cross, where no childish word was ever spoken. And though
she was by no means prepared to flirt with Captain De Baron, still she found in him something
of the realisation of her dreams. There was the combination of manliness, playfulness, good
looks, and good humour which she had pictured to herself. To sit well-dressed in a well-lighted
room and have nonsense talked to her suited her better than a petticoat conclave. And she knew
of no harm in it. Her father encouraged her to be gay, and altogether discouraged petticoat
conclaves. So she smiled her sweetest on Captain De Baron, and replied to his nonsense with
other nonsense, and was satisfied.

But Guss Mildmay was very much dissatisfied, both as to the amusement of the present moment
and as to the conduct of Captain De Baron generally. She knew London life well, whereas Lady
George did not know it at all; and she considered that this was flirtation. She may have been
right in any accusation which she made in her heart against the man, but she was quite wrong
in considering Lady George to be a flirt. She had, however, grievances of her own--great grievances.
It was not only that the man was attentive to some one else, but that he was not attentive
to her. He and she had had many passages in life together, and he owed it to her at any rate
not to appear to neglect her. And then what a stick was that other man on the other side of
her,--that young woman's husband! During the greater part of dinner she was sitting speechless,--not
only loverless, but manless. It is not what one suffers that kills one, but what one knows
that other people see that one suffers.

There was not very much conversation between Lord George and Mrs. Houghton at dinner. Perhaps
she spoke as much to Mr. Mildmay as to him; for she was a good hostess, understanding and performing
her duty. But what she did say to him she said very graciously, making allusions to further
intimacy between herself and Mary, flattering his vanity by little speeches as to Manor Cross,
always seeming to imply that she felt hourly the misfortune of having been forced to decline
the honour of such an alliance as had been offered to her. He was, in truth, as innocent as
his wife, except in this, that he would not have wished her to hear all that Mrs. Houghton
said to him, whereas Mary would have had not the slightest objection to his hearing all the
nonsense between her and Captain De Baron.

The ladies sat a long time after dinner, and when they went Mrs. Houghton asked her husband
to come up in ten minutes. They did not remain much longer, but during those ten minutes Guss
Mildmay said something of her wrongs to her friend, and Lady George heard some news from Miss
Houghton. Miss Houghton had got Lady George on to a sofa, and was talking to her about Brotherton
and Manor Cross. "So the Marquis is coming," she said. "I knew the Marquis years ago, when
we used to be staying with the De Barons,--Adelaide's father and mother. She was alive then,
and the Marquis used to come over there. So he has married?"

"Yes; an Italian."

"I did not think he would ever marry. It makes a difference to you;--does it not?"

"I don't think of such things."

"You will not like him, for he is the very opposite to Lord George."

"I don't know that I shall ever even see him. I don't think he wants to see any of us."

"I dare say not. He used to be very handsome, and very fond of ladies' society,--but, I think,
the most selfish human being I ever knew in my life. That is a complaint that years do not
cure. He and I were great friends once."

"Did you quarrel?"

"Oh, dear no. I had rather a large fortune of my own, and there was a time in which he was,
perhaps, a little in want of money. But they had to build a town on his property in Staffordshire,
and you see that did instead."

"Did instead!" said Lady George, altogether in the dark.

"There was suddenly a great increase to his income, and, of course, that altered his view.
I am bound to say that he was very explicit. He could be so without suffering himself, or understanding
that any one else would suffer. I tell you because you are one of the family, and would, no
doubt, hear it all some day through Adelaide. I had a great escape."

"And he a great misfortune," said Mary civilly.

"I think he had, to tell you the truth. I am good-tempered, long-suffering, and have a certain
grain of sagacity that might have been useful to him. Have you heard about this Italian lady?"

"Only that she is an Italian lady."

"He is about my age. If I remember rightly there is hardly a month or two between us. She is
three or four years older."

"You knew her then?"

"I knew of her. I have been curious enough to enquire, which is, I dare say, more than any
body has done at Manor Cross."

"And is she so old?"

"And a widow. They have been married, you know, over twelve months; nearly two years, I believe."

"Surely not; we heard of it only since our own marriage."

"Exactly; but the Marquis was always fond of a little mystery. It was the news of your marriage
that made him hint at the possibility of such a thing; and he did not tell the fact till he
had made up his mind to come home. I do not know that he has told all now."

"What else is there?"

"She has a baby,--a boy." Mary felt that the colour flew to her cheeks; but she knew that it
did so, not from any disappointment of her own, not because these tidings were in truth a blow
to her, but because others,--this lady, for instance,--would think that she suffered. "I am
afraid it is so," said Miss Houghton.

"She may have twenty, for what I care," said Mary, recovering herself.

"I think Lord George ought to know."

"Of course I shall tell him what you told me. I am sorry that he is not nice, that's all. I
should have liked a brother-in-law that I could have loved. And I wish he had married an English
woman. I think English women are best for English men."

"I think so too. I am afraid you will none of you like the lady. She cannot speak a word of
English. Of course you will use my name in telling Lord George. I heard it all from a friend
of mine who is married to one of the Secretaries at the Embassy." Then the gentlemen came in,
and Mary began to be in a hurry to get away that she might tell this news to her husband.

In the meantime Guss Mildmay made her complaints, deep but not loud. She and Mrs. Houghton
had been very intimate as girls, knew each other's secrets, and understood each other's characters.
"Why did you have him to such a party as this?" said Guss.

"I told you he was coming."

"But you didn't tell me about that young woman. You put him next to her on purpose to annoy me."

"That's nonsense. You know as well as I do that nothing can come of it. You must drop it, and
you'd better do it at once. You don't want to be known as the girl who is dying for the love
of a man she can't marry. That's not your métier."

"That's my own affair. If I choose to stick to him you, at least, ought not to cross me."

"But he won't stick to you. Of course he's my cousin, and I don't see why he's to be supposed
never to say a word to anyone else, when it's quite understood that you're not going to have
one another. What's the good of being a dog in the manger?"

"Adelaide, you never had any heart!"

"Of course not;--or, if I had, I knew how to get the better of so troublesome an appendage.
I hate hearing about hearts. If he'd take you to-morrow you wouldn't marry him?"

"Yes, I would."

"I don't believe it. I don't think you'd be so wicked. Where would you live, and how? How long
would it be before you hated each other? Hearts! As if hearts weren't just like anything else
which either you can or you cannot afford yourself. Do you think I couldn't go and fall in
love to-morrow, and think it the best fun in the world? Of course it's nice to have a fellow
like Jack always ready to spoon, and sending one things, and riding with one, and all that.
I don't know any young woman in London would like it better than I should. But I can't afford
it, my dear, and so I don't do it."

"It seems to me you are going to do it with your old lover?"

"Dear Lord George! I swear it's only to bring Mary down a peg, because she is so proud of her
nobleman. And then he is handsome! But, my dear, I've pleased myself. I have got a house over
my head, and a carriage to sit in, and servants to wait on me, and I've settled myself. Do
you do likewise, and you shall have your Lord George, or Jack De Baron, if he pleases;--only
don't go too far with him."

"Adelaide," said the other, "I'm not good, but you're downright bad." Mrs. Houghton only laughed,
as she got up from her seat to welcome the gentlemen as they entered the room.

Mary, as soon as the door of the brougham had been closed upon her, and her husband, began
to tell her story. "What do you think Miss Houghton has told me?" Lord George, of course, could
have no thoughts about it, and did not at first very much care what the story might have been.
"She says that your brother was married ever so long ago!"

"I don't believe it," said Lord George, suddenly and angrily.

"A year before we were married, I mean."

"I don't believe it."

"And she says that they have a son."

"What!"

"That there is a baby,--a boy. She has heard it all from some friend of hers at Rome."

"It can't be true."

"She said that I had better tell you. Does it make you unhappy, George?" To this he made no
immediate answer. "What can it matter whether he was married two months ago or two years? It
does not make me unhappy;" as she said this, she locked herself close into his arm.

"Why should he deceive us? That would make me unhappy. If he had married in a proper way and
had a family, here in England, of course I should have been glad. I should have been loyal
to him as I am to the others. But if this be true, of course, it will make me unhappy. I do
not believe it. It is some gossip."

"I could not but tell you."

"It is some jealousy. There was a time when they said that Brotherton meant to marry her."

"What difference could it make to her? Of course we all know that he is married. I hope it
won't make you unhappy, George." But Lord George was unhappy, or at any rate, was moody, and
would talk no more then on that subject, or any other. But in truth the matter rested on his
mind all the night.

CHAPTER XIV.

"ARE WE TO CALL HIM POPENJOY?"

The news which he had heard did afflict Lord George very much. A day or two after the dinner-party
in Berkeley Square he found Mr. Knox, his brother's agent, and learned from him that Miss Houghton's
story was substantially true. The Marquis had informed his man of business that an heir had
been born to him, but had not communicated the fact to any one of the family! This omission,
in such a family, was, to Lord George's thinking, so great a crime on the part of his brother,
as to make him doubt whether he could ever again have fraternal relations with a man who so
little knew his duty. When Mr. Knox showed him the letter his brow became very black. He did
not often forget himself,--was not often so carried away by any feeling as to be in danger
of doing so. But on this occasion even he was so moved as to be unable to control his words.
"An Italian brat? Who is to say how it was born?"

"The Marquis, my Lord, would not do anything like that," said Mr. Knox, very seriously.

Then Lord George was ashamed of himself, and blushed up to the roots of his hair. He had hardly
himself known what he had meant. But he mistrusted an Italian widow, because she was an Italian,
and because she was a widow, and he mistrusted the whole connexion, because there had been
in it none of that honourable openness which should, he thought, characterise all family doings
in such a family as that of the Germains. "I don't know of what kind you mean," he said, shuffling,
and knowing that he shuffled. "I don't suppose my brother would do anything really wrong. But
it's a blot to the family--a terrible blot."

"She is a lady of good family,--a Marchese," said Mr. Knox.

"An Italian Marchese!" said Lord George, with that infinite contempt which an English nobleman
has for foreign nobility not of the highest order.

He had learnt that Miss Houghton's story was true, and was certainly very unhappy. It was not
at all that he had pictured to himself the glory of being himself the Marquis of Brotherton
after his brother's death; nor was it only the disappointment which he felt as to any possible
son of his own, though on that side he did feel the blow. The reflection which perplexed him
most was the consciousness that he must quarrel with his brother, and that after such a quarrel
he would become nobody in the world. And then, added to this, was the sense of family disgrace.
He would have been quite content with his position had he been left master of the house at
Manor Cross, even without any of his brother's income wherewith to maintain the house. But
now he would only be his wife's husband, the Dean's son-in-law, living on their money, and
compelled by circumstances to adapt himself to them. He almost thought that had he known that
he would be turned out of Manor Cross, he would not have married. And then, in spite of his
disclaimer to Mr. Knox, he was already suspicious of some foul practice. An heir to the title
and property, to all the family honours of the Germains, had suddenly burst upon him, twelve
months,--for aught that he knew, two or three years,--after the child's birth! Nobody had been
informed when the child was born, or in what circumstances,--except that the mother was an
Italian widow! What evidence on which an Englishman might rely could possibly be forthcoming
from such a country as Italy! Poor Lord George, who was himself as honest as the sun, was prepared
to believe all evil things of people of whom he knew nothing! Should his brother die,--and
his brother's health was bad,--what steps should he take? Would it be for him to accept this
Italian brat as the heir to everything, or must he ruin himself by a pernicious lawsuit? Looking
forward he saw nothing but family misery and disgrace, and he saw, also, inevitable difficulties
with which he knew himself to be incapable to cope. "It is true," he said to his wife very
gloomily, when he first met her after his interview with Mr. Knox.

"What Miss Houghton said? I felt sure it was true, directly she told me."

"I don't know why you should have felt sure, merely on her word, as to a thing so monstrous
as this is. You don't seem to see that it concerns yourself."

"No; I don't. It doesn't concern me at all, except as it makes you unhappy." Then there was
a pause for a moment, during which she crept close up to him, in a manner that had now become
usual with her. "Why do you think I married you?" she said. He was too unhappy to answer her
pleasantly,--too much touched by her sweetness to answer her unpleasantly; and so he said nothing.
"Certainly not with any hope that I might become Marchioness of Brotherton. Whatever may have
made me do such a thing, I can assure you that that had nothing to do with it."

"Can't you look forward? Don't you suppose that you may have a son?" Then she buried her face
upon his shoulder. "And if so, would it not be better that a child so born should be the heir,
than some Italian baby, of whom no one knows anything?"

"If you are unhappy, George, I shall be unhappy. But for myself I will not affect to care anything.
I don't want to be a Marchioness. I only want to see you without a frown on your brow. To tell
the truth, if you didn't mind it, I should care nothing about your brother and his doings.
I would make a joke of this Marchese, who, Miss Houghton says, is a puckered-faced old woman.
Miss Houghton seems to care a great deal more about it than I do."

"It cannot be a subject for a joke." He was almost angry at the idea of the wife of the head
of the family being made a matter of laughter. That she should be reprobated, hated,--cursed,
if necessary,--was within the limits of family dignity; but not that she should become a joke
to those with whom she had unfortunately connected herself. When he had finished speaking to
her she could not but feel that he was displeased, and could not but feel also the injustice
of such displeasure. Of course she had her own little share in the general disappointments.
But she had striven before him to make nothing of it, in order that he might be quite sure
that she had married him--not with any idea of rank or wealth, but for himself alone. She had
made light of the family misfortune, in order that he might be relieved. And yet he was angry
with her! This was unreasonable. How much had she done for him! Was she not striving every
hour of her life to love him, and, at any rate, to comfort him with the conviction that he
was loved? Was she not constant in her assurance to herself that her whole life should be devoted
to him? And yet he was surly to her simply because his brother had disgraced himself! When
she was left alone she sat down and cried, and then consoled herself by remembering that her
father was coming to her.

It had been arranged that the last days of February should be spent by Lord George with his
mother and sisters at Cross Hall, and that the Dean should run up to town for a week. Lord
George went down to Brotherton by a morning train, and the Dean came up on the same afternoon.
But the going and coming were so fixed that the two men met at the deanery. Lord George had
determined that he would speak fully to the Dean respecting his brother. He was always conscious
of the Dean's low birth, remembering, with some slight discomfort, the stable-keeper and the
tallow-chandler; and he was a little inclined to resent what he thought to be a disposition
on the part of the Dean to domineer. But still the Dean was a practical, sagacious man, in
whom he could trust; and the assistance of such a friend was necessary to him. Circumstances
had bound him to the Dean, and he was a man not prone to bind himself to many men. He wanted
and yet feared the confidence of friendship. He lunched with the Dean, and then told his story.
"You know," he said, "that my brother is married?"

"Of course, we all heard that."

"He was married more than twelve months before he informed us that he was going to be married."

"No!"

"It was so."

"Do you mean, then, that he told you a falsehood?"

"His letter to me was very strange, though I did not think much of it at the time. He said,
'I am to be married'--naming no day."

"That certainly was--a falsehood, as, at that time, he was married."

"I do not know that harsh words will do any good."

"Nor I. But it is best, George, that you and I should be quite plain in our words to each other.
Placed as he was, and as you were, he was bound to tell you of his marriage as soon as he knew
it himself. You had waited till he was between forty and fifty, and, of course, he must feel
that what you would do would depend materially upon what he did."

"It didn't at all."

"And then, having omitted to do his duty, he screens his fault by a----positive misstatement,
when his intended return home makes further concealment impossible."

"All that, however, is of little moment," said Lord George, who could not but see that the
Dean was already complaining that he had been left without information which he ought to have
possessed when he was giving his daughter to a probable heir to the title. "There is more than
that."

"What more?"

"He had a son born more than twelve months since."

"Who says so?" exclaimed the Dean, jumping up from his chair.

"I heard it first,--or rather Mary did,--in common conversation, from an old friend. I then
learned the truth from Knox. Though he had told none of us, he had told Knox."

"And Knox has known it all through?"

"No, only lately. But he knows it now. Knox supposes that they are coming home so that the
people about may be reconciled to the idea of his having an heir. There will be less trouble,
he thinks, if the boy comes now, than if he were never heard of till he was ten or fifteen
years old,--or perhaps till after my brother's death."

"There may be trouble enough still," said the Dean, almost with a gasp.

The Dean, it was clear, did not believe in the boy. Lord George remembered that he himself
had expressed disbelief, and that Mr. Knox had almost rebuked him. "I have now told you all
the facts," said Lord George, "and have told them as soon as I knew them."

"You are as true as the sun," said the Dean, putting his hand on his son-in-law's shoulder.
"You will be honest. But you must not trust in the honesty of others. Poor Mary!"

"She does not feel it in the least;--will not even interest herself about it."

"She will feel it some day. She is no more than a child now. I feel it, George;--I feel it;
and you ought to feel it."

"I feel his ill-treatment of myself."

"What--in not telling you? That is probably no more than a small part of a wide scheme. We
must find out the truth of all this."

"I don't know what there is to find out," said Lord George, hoarsely.

"Nor do I; but I do feel that there must be something. Think of your brother's position and
standing,--of his past life and his present character! This is no time now for being mealy-mouthed.
When such a man as he appears suddenly with a foreign woman and a foreign child, and announces
one as his wife and the other as his heir, having never reported the existence of one or of
the other, it is time that some enquiry should be made. I, at any rate, shall make enquiry.
I shall think myself bound to do so on behalf of Mary." Then they parted as confidential friends
do part, but each with some feeling antagonistic to the other. The Dean, though he had from
his heart acknowledged that Lord George was as honest as the sun, still felt himself to be
aggrieved by the Germain family, and doubted whether his son-in-law would be urgent enough
and constant in hostility to his own brother. He feared that Lord George would be weak, feeling;
as regarded himself, that he would fight till he had spent his last penny, as long as there
was a chance that, by fighting, a grandson of his own might be made Marquis of Brotherton.
He, at any rate, understood his own heart in the matter, and knew what it was that he wanted.
But Lord George, though he had found himself compelled to tell everything to the Dean, still
dreaded the Dean. It was not in accordance with his principles that he should be leagued against
his brother with such a man as Dean Lovelace, and he could see that the Dean was thinking of
his own possible grandchildren, whereas he himself was thinking only of the family of Germain.

He found his mother and sister at the small house,--the house at which Farmer Price was living
only a month or two since. No doubt it was the recognised dower house, but nevertheless there
was still about it a flavour of Farmer Price. A considerable sum of money had been spent upon
it, which had come from a sacrifice of a small part of the capital belonging to the three sisters,
with an understanding that it should be repaid out of the old lady's income. But no one, except
the old lady herself, anticipated such repayment. All this had created trouble and grief, and
the family, which was never gay, was now more sombre than ever. When the further news was told
to Lady Sarah it almost crushed her. "A child!" she said in a horror-stricken whisper, turning
quite pale, and looking as though the crack of doom were coming at once. "Do you believe it?"
Then her brother explained the grounds he had for believing it. "And that it was born in wedlock
twelve months before the fact was announced to us."

"It has never been announced to us," said Lord George.

"What are we to do? is my mother to be told? She ought to know at once; and yet how can we
tell her? What shall you do about the Dean?"

"He knows."

"You told him?"

"Yes; I thought it best."

"Well,--perhaps. And yet it is terrible that any man so distant from us should have our secrets
in his keeping."

"As Mary's father, I thought it right that he should know."

"I have always liked the Dean personally," said Lady Sarah. "There is a manliness about him
which has recommended him, and having a full hand he knows how to open it. But he isn't----;
he isn't quite----"

"No; he isn't quite----," said Lord George, also hesitating to pronounce the word which was
understood by both of them.

"You must tell my mother, or I must. It will be wrong to withhold it. If you like, I will tell
Susanna and Amelia."

"I think you had better tell my mother," said Lord George; "she will take it more easily from
you. And then, if she breaks down, you can control her better." That Lady Sarah should have
the doing of any difficult piece of work was almost a matter of course. She did tell the tale
to her mother, and her mother did break down. The Marchioness, when she found that an Italian
baby had been born twelve months before the time which she had been made to believe was the
date of the marriage, took at once to her bed. What a mass of horrors was coming on them! Was
she to go and see a woman who had had a baby under such circumstances? Or was her own eldest
son, the very, very Marquis of Brotherton, to be there with his wife, and was she not to go
and see them? Through it all her indignation against her son had not been hot as had been theirs
against their brother. He was her eldest son,--the very Marquis,--and ought to be allowed to
do almost anything he pleased. Had it not been impossible for her to rebel against Lady Sarah
she would have obeyed her son in that matter of the house. And, even now, it was not against
her son that her heart was bitter, but against the woman, who, being an Italian, and having
been married, if married, without the knowledge of the family, presumed to say that her child
was legitimate. Had her eldest son brought over with him to the halls of his ancestors an Italian
mistress that would, of course, have been very bad, but it would not have been so bad as this.
Nothing could be so bad as this. "Are we to call him Popenjoy?" she asked with a gurgling voice
from amidst the bed clothes. Now the eldest son of the Marquis of Brotherton would, as a matter
of course, be Lord Popenjoy, if legitimate. "Certainly we must," said Lady Sarah, authoritatively,
"unless the marriage should be disproved."

"Poor dear little thing," said the Marchioness, beginning to feel some pity for the odious
stranger as soon as she was told that he really was to be called Popenjoy. Then the Ladies
Susanna and Amelia were informed, and the feeling became general throughout the household that
the world must be near its end. What were they all to do when he should come? That was the
great question. He had begun by declaring that he did not want to see any of them. He had endeavoured
to drive them away from the neighbourhood, and had declared that neither his mother nor his
sisters would "get on" with his wife. All the ladies at Cross Hall had a very strong opinion
that this would turn out to be true, but still they could not bear to think that they should
be living as it were next door to the head of the family, and never see him. A feeling began
to creep over all of them, except Lady Sarah, that it would have been better for them to have
obeyed the head of the family and gone elsewhere. But it was too late now. The decision had
been made, and they must remain.

Lady Sarah, however, never gave way for a minute. "George," she said very solemnly, "I have
thought a great deal about this, and I do not mean to let him trample upon us."

"It is all very sad," said Lord George.

"Yes, indeed. If I know myself, I think I should be the last person to attribute evil motives
to my elder brother, or to stand in his way in aught that he might wish to do in regard to
the family. I know all that is due to him. But there is a point beyond which even that feeling
cannot carry me. He has disgraced himself." Lord George shook his head. "And he is doing all
he can to bring disgrace upon us. It has always been my wish that he should marry."

"Of course, of course."

"It is always desirable that the eldest son should marry. The heir to the property then knows
that he is the heir, and is brought up to understand his duties. Though he had married a foreigner,
much as I should regret it, I should be prepared to receive her as a sister; it is for him
to please himself; but in marrying a foreigner he is more specially bound to let it be known
to all the world, and to have everything substantiated, than if he had married an English girl
in her own parish church. As it is, we must call on her, because he says that she is his wife.
But I shall tell him that he is acting very wrongly by us all, especially by you, and most
especially by his own child, if he does not take care that such evidence of his marriage is
forthcoming as shall satisfy all the world."

"He won't listen to you."

"I think I can make him, as far as that goes; at any rate I do not mean to be afraid of him.
Nor must you."

"I hardly know whether I will even see him."

"Yes; you must see him. If we are to be expelled from the family house, let it be his doing,
and not ours. We have to take care, George, that we do not make a single false step. We must
be courteous to him, but above all we must not be afraid of him."

In the meantime the Dean went up to London, meaning to spend a week with his daughter in her
new house. They had both intended that this should be a period of great joy to them. Plans
had been made as to the theatres and one or two parties, which were almost as exciting to the
Dean as to his daughter. It was quite understood by both of them that the Dean up in London
was to be a man of pleasure, rather than a clergyman. He had no purpose of preaching either
at St. Paul's or the Abbey. He was going to attend no Curates' Aid Society or Sons of the Clergy.
He intended to forget Mr. Groschut, to ignore Dr. Pountney, and have a good time. That had
been his intention, at least till he saw Lord George at the deanery. But now there were serious
thoughts in his mind. When he arrived Mary had for the time got nearly rid of the incubus of
the Italian Marchioness with her baby. She was all smiles as she kissed him. But he could not
keep himself from the great subject.

"This is terrible news, my darling," he said at once.

"Do you think so, papa?"

"Certainly I do."

"I don't see why Lord Brotherton should not have a son and heir as well as anybody else."

"He is quite entitled to have a son and heir,--one may almost say more entitled than anyone
else, seeing that he has got so much to leave to him,--but on that very account he is more
bound than anyone else to let all the world feel sure that his declared son and heir is absolutely
his son and heir."

"He couldn't be so vile as that, papa!"

"God forbid that I should say that he could. It may be that he considers himself married, though
the marriage would not be valid here. Maybe he is married, and that yet the child is not legitimate."
Mary could not but blush as her father spoke to her thus plainly. "All we do know is that he
wrote to his own brother declaring that he was about to be married twelve months after the
birth of the child whom he now expects us to recognise as the heir to the title. I for one
am not prepared to accept his word without evidence, and I shall have no scruple in letting
him know that such evidence will be wanted."

CHAPTER XV.

"DROP IT."

For ten or twelve days after the little dinner in Berkeley Square Guss Mildmay bore her misfortunes
without further spoken complaint. During all that time, though they were both in London, she
never saw Jack De Baron, and she knew that in not seeing her he was neglecting her. But for
so long she bore it. It is generally supposed that young ladies have to bear such sorrow without
loud complaint; but Guss was more thoroughly emancipated than are some young ladies, and when
moved was wont to speak her mind. At last, when she herself was only on foot with her father,
she saw Jack De Baron riding with Lady George. It is quite true that she also saw, riding behind
them, her perfidious friend, Mrs. Houghton, and a gentleman whom at that time she did not know
to be Lady George's father. This was early in March, when equestrians in the park are not numerous.
Guss stood for a moment looking at them, and Jack De Baron took off his hat. But Jack did not
stop, and went on talking with that pleasant vivacity which she, poor girl, knew so well and
valued so highly. Lady George liked it too, though she could hardly have given any reason for
liking it, for, to tell the truth, there was not often much pith in Jack's conversation.

On the following morning Captain De Baron, who had lodgings in Charles Street close to the
Guards' Club, had a letter brought to him before he was out of bed. The letter was from Guss
Mildmay, and he knew the handwriting well. He had received many notes from her, though none
so interesting on the whole as was this letter. Miss Mildmay's letter to Jack was as follows.
It was written, certainly, with a swift pen, and, but that he knew her writing well, would
in parts have been hardly legible.

     "I think you are treating me very badly. I tell you openly and
     fairly. It is neither gentlemanlike or high spirited, as you know
     that I have no one to take my part but myself. If you mean to cut
     me, say so, and let me understand it at once. You have taken up
     now with that young married woman just because you know it will
     make me angry. I don't believe for a moment that you really care
     for such a baby-faced chit as that. I have met her too, and I know
     that she hasn't a word to say for herself. Do you mean to come and
     see me? I expect to hear from you, letting me know when you will
     come. I do not intend to be thrown over for her or anyone. I
     believe it is mostly Adelaide's doing, who doesn't like to think
     that you should really care for anyone. You know very well what my
     feelings are, and what sacrifice I am ready to make. And you know
     what you have told me of yourself. I shall be at home all this
     afternoon. Papa, of course, will go to his club at three. Aunt
     Julia has an afternoon meeting at the Institute for the
     distribution of prizes among the Rights-of-Women young men, and I
     have told her positively that I won't go. Nobody else will be
     admitted. Do come and at any rate let us have it out. This state
     of things will kill me,--though, of course, you don't mind that.

     "G.

     "I shall think you a coward if you don't come. Oh, Jack, do come."

She had begun like a lion, but had ended like a lamb; and such was the nature of every thought
she had respecting him. She was full of indignation. She assured herself hourly that such treachery
as his deserved death. She longed for a return of the old times,--thirty years since,--and
for some old-fashioned brother, so that Jack might be shot at and have a pistol bullet in his
heart. And yet she told herself as often that she could not live without him. Where should
she find another Jack after her recklessness in letting all the world know that this man was
her Jack? She hardly wanted to marry him, knowing full well the nature of the life which would
then be before her. Jack had told her often that if forced to do that he must give up the army
and go and live in ----, he had named Dantzic as having the least alluring sound of any place
he knew. To her it would be best that things should go on just as they were now till something
should turn up. But that she should be enthralled and Jack free was not to be borne! She begrudged
him no other pleasure. She was willing that he should hunt, gamble, eat, drink, smoke, and
be ever so wicked, if that were his taste; but not that he should be seen making himself agreeable
to another young woman. It might be that their position was unfortunate, but of that misfortune
she had by far the heavier share. She could not eat, drink, smoke, gamble, hunt, and be generally
wicked. Surely he might bear it if she could.

Jack, when he had read the letter, tossed it on to the counterpane, and rolled himself again
in bed. It was not as yet much after nine, and he need not decide for an hour or two whether
he would accept the invitation or not. But the letter bothered him and he could not sleep.
She told him that if he did not come he would be a coward, and he felt that she had told him
the truth. He did not want to see her,--not because he was tired of her, for in her softer
humours she was always pleasant to him,--but because he had a clear insight into the misery
of the whole connection. When the idea of marrying her suggested itself, he always regarded
it as being tantamount to suicide. Were he to be persuaded to such a step he would simply be
blowing his own brains out because someone else asked him to do so. He had explained all this
to her at various times when suggesting Dantzic, and she had agreed with him. Then, at that
point, his common sense had been better than hers, and his feeling really higher. "That being
so," he had said, "it is certainly for your advantage that we should part." But this to her
had been as though he were striving to break his own chains and was indifferent as to her misery.
"I can take care of myself," she had answered him. But he knew that she could not take care
of herself. Had she not been most unwise, most imprudent, she would have seen the wisdom of
letting the intimacy of their acquaintance drop without any further explanation. But she was
most unwise. Nevertheless, when she accused him of cowardice, must he not go?

He breakfasted uncomfortably, trying to put off the consideration, and then uncomfortably sauntered
down to the Guard House, at St. James's. He had no intention of writing, and was therefore
not compelled to make up his mind till the hour named for the appointment should actually have
come. He thought for a while that he would write her a long letter, full of good sense; explaining
to her that it was impossible that they should be useful to each other, and that he found himself
compelled, by his regard for her, to recommend that their peculiar intimacy should be brought
to an end. But he knew that such a letter would go for nothing with her,--that she would regard
it simply as an excuse on his part. They two had tacitly agreed not to be bound by common sense,--not
to be wise. Such tacit agreements are common enough between men, between women, and between
men and women. What! a sermon from you! No indeed; not that. Jack felt all this,--felt that
he could not preach without laying himself open to ridicule. When the time came he made up
his mind that he must go. Of course it was very bad for her. The servants would all know it.
Everybody would know it. She was throwing away every chance she had of doing well for herself.
But what was he to do? She told him that he would be a coward, and he at any rate could not
bear that.

Mr. Mildmay lived in a small house in Green Street, very near the Park, but still a modest,
unassuming, cheap little house. Jack De Baron knew the way to it well, and was there not above
a quarter-of-an-hour after the appointed time. "So aunt Ju has gone to the Rights of Women,
has she?" he said, after his first greeting. He might have kissed her if he would, but he didn't.
He had made up his mind about that. And so had she. She was ready for him, whether he should
kiss her or not,--ready to accept either greeting, as though it was just that which she had
expected.

"Oh, yes; she is going to make a speech herself."

"But why do they give prizes to young men?"

"Because the young men have stood up for the old women. Why don't you go and get a prize?"

"I had to be here instead."

"Had to be here, sir!"

"Yes, Guss; had to be here! Isn't that about it? When you tell me to come, and tell me that
I am a coward if I don't come, of course I am here."

"And now you are here, what have you got to say for yourself?" This she attempted to say easily
and jauntily.

"Not a word."

"Then I don't see what is the use of coming?"

"Nor I, either. What would you have me say?"

"I would have you,--I would have you----" And then there was something like a sob. It was quite
real. "I would have you tell me--that you--love me."

"Have I not told you so a score of times; and what has come of it?"

"But is it true?"

"Come, Guss, this is simple folly. You know it is true; and you know, also, that there is no
good whatever to be got from such truth."

"If you loved me, you would like--to--see me."

"No, I shouldn't;--no, I don't;--unless it could lead to something. There was a little fun
to be had when we could spoon together,--when I hardly knew how to ask for it, and you hardly
knew how to grant it; when it was a little shooting bud, and had to be nursed by smiles and
pretty speeches. But there are only three things it can come to now. Two are impossible, and
therefore there is the other."

"What are the three?"

"We might get married."

"Well?"

"One of the three I shall not tell you. And we might--make up our minds to forget it all. Do
what the people call, part. That is what I suggest."

"So that you may spend your time in riding about with Lady George Germain."

"That is nonsense, Guss. Lady George Germain I have seen three times, and she talks only about
her husband; a pretty little woman more absolutely in love I never came across."

"Pretty little fool!"

"Very likely. I have nothing to say against that. Only, when you have no heavier stone to throw
against me than Lady George Germain, really you are badly off for weapons."

"I have stones enough, if I chose to throw them. Oh, Jack!"

"What more is there to be said?"

"Have you had enough of me already, Jack?"

"I should not have had half enough of you if either you or I had fifty thousand pounds."

"If I had them I would give them all to you."

"And I to you. That goes without telling. But as neither of us have got the money, what are
we to do? I know what we had better not do. We had better not make each other unhappy by what
people call recriminations."

"I don't suppose that anything I say can affect your happiness."

"Yes, it does; very much. It makes me think of deep rivers, and high columns; of express trains
and prussic acid. Well as we have known each other, you have never found out how unfortunately
soft I am."

"Very soft!"

"I am. This troubles me so that I ride over awfully big places, thinking that I might perhaps
be lucky enough to break my neck."

"What must I feel, who have no way of amusing myself at all?"

"Drop it. I know it is a hard thing for me to say. I know it will sound heartless. But I am
bound to say so. It is for your sake. I can't hurt myself. It does me no harm that everybody
knows that I am philandering after you; but it is the very deuce for you." She was silent for
a moment. Then he said again emphatically, "Drop it."

"I can't drop it," she said, through her tears.

"Then what are we to do?" As he asked this question, he approached her and put his arm round
her waist. This he did in momentary vacillating mercy,--not because of the charm of the thing
to himself, but through his own inability not to give her some token of affection.

"Marry," she said, in a whisper.

"And go and live at Dantzic for the rest of our lives!" He did not speak these words, but such
was the exclamation which he at once made internally to himself. If he had resolved on anything,
he had resolved that he would not marry her. One might sacrifice one's self, he had said to
himself, if one could do her any good; but what's the use of sacrificing both. He withdrew
his arm from her, and stood a yard apart from her, looking into her face.

"That would be so horrible to you!" she said.

"It would be horrible to have nothing to eat."

"We should have seven hundred and fifty pounds a year," said Guss, who had made her calculations
very narrowly.

"Well, yes; and no doubt we could get enough to eat at such a place as Dantzic."

"Dantzic! you always laugh at me when I speak seriously."

"Or Lubeck, if you like it better; or Leipsig. I shouldn't care the least in the world where
we went. I know a chap who lives in Minorca because he has not got any money. We might go to
Minorca, only the mosquitoes would eat you up."

"Will you do it? I will if you will." They were standing now three yards apart, and Guss was
looking terrible things. She did not endeavour to be soft, but had made up her mind as to the
one step that must be taken. She would not lose him. They need not be married immediately.
Something might turn up before any date was fixed for their marriage. If she could only bind
him by an absolute promise that he would marry her some day! "I will, if you will," she said
again, after waiting a second or two for his answer. Then he shook his head. "You will not,
after all that you have said to me?" He shook his head again. "Then, Jack De Baron, you are
perjured, and no gentleman."

"Dear Guss, I can bear that. It is not true, you know, as I have never made you any promise
which I am not ready to keep; but still I can bear it."

"No promise! Have you not sworn that you loved me?"

"A thousand times."

"And what does that mean from a gentleman to a lady?"

"It ought to mean matrimony and all that kind of thing, but it never did mean it with us. You
know how it all began."

"I know what it has come to, and that you owe it to me as a gentleman to let me decide whether
I am able to encounter such a life or not. Though it were absolute destruction, you ought to
face it if I bid you."

"If it were destruction for myself only--perhaps, yes. But though you have so little regard
for my happiness, I still have some for yours. It is not to be done. You and I have had our
little game, as I said before, and now we had better put the rackets down and go and rest ourselves."

"What rest? Oh, Jack,--what rest is there?"

"Try somebody else."

"Can you tell me to do that!"

"Certainly I can. Look at my cousin Adelaide."

"Your cousin Adelaide never cared for any human being in her life except herself. She had no
punishment to suffer as I have. Oh, Jack! I do so love you." Then she rushed at him, and fell
upon his bosom, and wept.

He knew that this would come, and he felt that, upon the whole, this was the worst part of
the performance. He could bear her anger or her sullenness with fortitude, but her lachrymose
caresses were insupportable. He held her, however, in his arms, and gazed at himself in the
pier glass most uncomfortably over her shoulder. "Oh, Jack," she said, "oh, Jack,--what is
to come next?" His face became somewhat more lugubrious than before, but he said not a word.
"I cannot lose you altogether. There is no one else in the wide world that I care for. Papa
thinks of nothing but his whist. Aunt Ju, with her 'Rights of Women,' is an old fool."

"Just so," said Jack, still holding her, and still looking very wretched.

"What shall I do if you leave me?"

"Pick up some one that has a little money. I know it sounds bad and mercenary, and all that,
but in our way of life there is nothing else to be done. We can't marry like the ploughboy
and milkmaid?"

"I could."

"And would be the first to find out your mistake afterwards. It's all very well saying that
Adelaide hasn't got a heart. I dare say she has as much heart as you or me."

"As you;--as you."

"Very well. Of course you have a sort of pleasure in abusing me. But she has known what she
could do, and what she could not. Every year as she grows older she will become more comfortable.
Houghton is very good to her, and she has lots of money to spend. If that's heartlessness there's
a good deal to be said for it." Then he gently disembarrassed himself of her arms, and placed
her on a sofa.

"And this is to be the end?"

"Well,--I think so really." She thumped her hand upon the head of the sofa as a sign of her
anger. "Of course we shall always be friends?"

"Never," she almost screamed.

"We'd better. People will talk less about it, you know."

"I don't care what people talk. If they knew the truth, no one would ever speak to you again."

"Good bye, Guss." She shook her head, as he had shaken his before. "Say a word to a fellow."
Again she shook her head. He attempted to take her hand, but she withdrew it. Then he stood
for perhaps a minute looking at her, but she did not move. "Good bye, Guss," he said again,
and then he left the room.

When he got into the street he congratulated himself. He had undergone many such scenes before,
but none which seemed so likely to bring the matter to an end. He was rather proud of his own
conduct, thinking that he had been at the same time both tender and wise. He had not given
way in the least, and had yet been explicit in assuring her of his affection. He felt now that
he would go and hunt on the morrow without any desire to break his neck over the baron's fences.
Surely the thing was done now for ever and ever! Then he thought how it would have been with
him at this moment had he in any transient weakness told her that he would marry her. But he
had been firm, and could now walk along with a light heart.

She, as soon as he had left her, got up, and taking the cushion off the sofa, threw it to the
further end of the room. Having so relieved herself, she walked up to her own chamber.

CHAPTER XVI.

ALL IS FISH THAT COMES TO HIS NET.

The Dean's week up in London during the absence of Lord George was gay enough; but through
it all and over it all there was that cloud of seriousness which had been produced by the last
news from Italy. He rode with his daughter, dined out in great state at Mrs. Montacute Jones's,
talked to Mr. Houghton about Newmarket and the next Derby, had a little flirtation of his own
with Hetta Houghton,--into which he contrived to introduce a few serious words about the Marquis,--and
was merry enough; but, to his daughter's surprise, he never for a moment ceased to be impressed
with the importance of the Italian woman and her baby. "What does it signify, papa?" she said.

"Not signify!"

"Of course it was to be expected that the Marquis should marry. Why should he not marry as
well as his younger brother?"

"In the first place, he is very much older."

"As to that, men marry at any age. Look at Mr. Houghton." The Dean only smiled. "Do you know,
papa, I don't think one ought to trouble about such things."

"That's nonsense, my dear. Men, and women too, ought to look after their own interests. It
is the only way in which progress can be made in the world. Of course you are not to covet
what belongs to others. You will make yourself very unhappy if you do. If Lord Brotherton's
marriage were all fair and above board, nobody would say a word; but, as it has not been so,
it will be our duty to find out the truth. If you should have a son, do not you think that
you would turn every stone before you would have him defrauded of his rights?"

"I shouldn't think any one would defraud him."

"But if this child be--anything else than what he pretends to be, there will be fraud. The
Germains, though they think as I do, are frightened and superstitious. They are afraid of this
imbecile who is coming over; but they shall find that if they do not move in the matter, I
will. I want nothing that belongs to another; but while I have a hand and tongue with which
to protect myself, or a purse,--which is better than either,--no one shall take from me what
belongs to me." All this seemed to Mary to be pagan teaching, and it surprised her much as
coming from her father. But she was beginning to find out that she, as a married woman, was
supposed to be now fit for other teaching than had been administered to her as a child. She
had been cautioned in her father's house against the pomps and vanities of this wicked world,
and could remember the paternal, almost divine expression of the Dean's face as the lesson
was taught. But now it seemed to her that the pomps and vanities were spoken of in a very different
way. The divine expression was altogether gone, and that which remained, though in looking
at her it was always pleasant, was hardly paternal.

Miss Mildmay,--Aunt Ju as she was called,--and Guss Mildmay came and called, and as it happened
the Dean was in the drawing-room when they came. They were known to be friends of Mrs. Houghton's
who had been in Brothershire, and were therefore in some degree connected even with the Dean.
Guss began at once about the new Marchioness and the baby; and the Dean, though he did not
of course speak to Guss Mildmay as he had done to his own daughter, still sneered at the mother
and her child. In the meantime Aunt Ju was enlisting poor Mary. "I should be so proud if you
would come with me to the Institute, Lady George."

"I am sure I should be delighted. But what Institute?"

"Don't you know?--in the Marylebone Road,--for relieving females from their disabilities."

"Do you mean Rights of Women? I don't think papa likes that," said Mary, looking round at her
father.

"You haven't got to mind what papa likes and dislikes any more," said the Dean, laughing. "Whether
you go in for the rights or the wrongs of women is past my caring for now. Lord George must
look after that."

"I am sure Lord George could not object to your going to the Marylebone Institute," said Aunt
Ju. "Lady Selina Protest is there every week, and Baroness Banmann, the delegate from Bavaria,
is coming next Friday."

"You'd find the Disabilities awfully dull, Lady George," said Guss.

"Everybody is not so flighty as you are, my dear. Some people do sometimes think of serious
things. And the Institute is not called the Disabilities."

"What is it all about?" said Mary.

"Only to empower women to take their own equal places in the world,--places equal to those
occupied by men," said Aunt Ju eloquently. "Why should one-half of the world be ruled by the
ipse dixit of the other?"

"Or fed by their labours?" said the Dean.

"That is just what we are not. There are 1,133,500 females in England----"

"You had better go and hear it all at the Disabilities, Lady George," said Guss. Lady George
said that she would like to go for once, and so that matter was settled.

While Aunt Ju was pouring out the violence of her doctrine upon the Dean, whom she contrived
to catch in a corner just before she left the house, Guss Mildmay had a little conversation
on her own part with Lady George. "Captain De Baron," she said, "is an old friend of yours,
I suppose." She, however, had known very well that Jack had never seen Lady George till within
the last month.

"No, indeed; I never saw him till the other day."

"I thought you seemed to be intimate. And then the Houghtons and the De Barons and the Germains
are all Brothershire people."

"I knew Mrs. Houghton's father, of course, a little; but I never saw Captain De Baron." This
she said rather seriously, remembering what Mrs. Houghton had said to her of the love affair
between this young lady and the Captain in question.

"I thought you seemed to know him the other night, and I saw you riding with him."

"He was with his cousin Adelaide,--not with us."

"I don't think he cares much for Adelaide. Do you like him?"

"Yes, I do; very much. He seems to be so gay."

"Yes, he is gay. He's a horrid flirt, you know."

"I didn't know; and what is more, I don't care."

"So many girls have said that about Captain De Baron; but they have cared afterwards."

"But I am not a girl, Miss Mildmay," said Mary, colouring, offended and resolved at once that
she would have no intimacy and as little acquaintance as possible with Guss Mildmay.

"You are so much younger than so many of us that are girls," said Guss, thinking to get out
of the little difficulty in that way. "And then it's all fish that comes to his net." She hardly
knew what she was saying, but was anxious to raise some feeling that should prevent any increased
intimacy between her own lover and Lady George. It was nothing to her whether or no she offended
Lady George Germain. If she could do her work without sinning against good taste, well; but
if not, then good taste must go to the wall. Good taste certainly had gone to the wall.

"Upon my word, I can hardly understand you!" Then Lady George turned away to her father. "Well,
papa, has Miss Mildmay persuaded you to come to the Institute with me?"

"I am afraid I should hardly be admitted, after what I have just said."

"Indeed you shall be admitted, Mr. Dean," said the old woman. "We are quite of the Church's
way of thinking, that no sinner is too hardened for repentance."

"I am afraid the day of grace has not come yet," said the Dean.

"Papa," said Lady George, as soon as her visitors were gone, "do you know I particularly dislike
that younger Miss Mildmay."

"Is she worth being particularly disliked so rapidly?"

"She says nasty, impudent things. I can't quite explain what she said." And again Lady George
blushed.

"People in society now do give themselves strange liberty;--women, I think, more than men.
You shouldn't mind it."

"Not mind it?"

"Not mind it so as to worry yourself. If a pert young woman like that says anything to annoy
you, put her down at the time, and then think no more about it. Of course you need not make
a friend of her."

"That I certainly shall not do."

On the Sunday after this Lady George dined again with her father at Mr. Houghton's house, the
dinner having been made up especially for the Dean. On this occasion the Mildmays were not
there; but Captain De Baron was one of the guests. But then he was Mrs. Houghton's cousin,
and had the run of the house on all occasions. Again, there was no great party; Mrs. Montacute
Jones was there, and Hetta,--Miss Houghton, that is, whom all the world called Hetta,--and
Mrs. Houghton's father, who happened to be up in town. Again Lady George found herself sitting
between her host and Jack De Baron, and again she thought that Jack was a very agreeable companion.
The idea of being in any way afraid of him did not enter into her mind. Those horrid words
which Guss Mildmay had said to her,--as to all being fish for his net,--had no effect of that
nature. She assured herself that she knew herself too well to allow anything of that kind to
influence her. That she, Lady George Germain, the daughter of the Dean of Brotherton, a married
woman, should be afraid of any man, afraid of any too close intimacy! The idea was horrible
and disgusting to her. So that when Jack proposed to join her and her father in the park on
the next afternoon, she said that she would be delighted; and when he told her absurd stories
of his regimental duties, and described his brother officers who probably did not exist as
described by him, and then went on to hunting legends in Buckinghamshire, she laughed at everything
he said and was very merry. "Don't you like Jack?" Mrs. Houghton said to her in the drawing-room.

"Yes, I do; very much. He's just what Jack ought to be."

"I don't know about that. I suppose Jack ought to go to church twice on Sundays, and give half
what he has to the poor, just as well as John."

"Perhaps he does. But Jack is bound to be amusing, while John need not have a word to say for
himself."

"You know he's my pet friend. We are almost like brother and sister, and therefore I need not
be afraid of him."

"Afraid of him! Why should anybody be afraid of him?"

"I am sure you needn't. But Jack has done mischief in his time. Perhaps he's not the sort of
man that would ever touch your fancy." Again Lady George blushed, but on this occasion she
had nothing to say. She did not want to quarrel with Mrs. Houghton, and the suggestion that
she could possibly love any other man than her husband had not now been made in so undisguised
a manner as before.

"I thought he was engaged to Miss Mildmay," said Lady George.

"Oh, dear no; nothing of the kind. It is impossible, as neither of them has anything to speak
of. When does Lord George come back?"

"To-morrow."

"Mind that he comes to see me soon. I do so long to hear what he'll say about his new sister-in-law.
I had made up my mind that I should have to koto to you before long as a real live marchioness."

"You'll never have to do that."

"Not if this child is a real Lord Popenjoy. But I have my hopes still, my dear."

Soon after that Hetta Houghton reverted to the all important subject.

"You have found out that what I told you was true, Lady George."

"Oh yes,--all true."

"I wonder what the Dowager thinks about it."

"My husband is with his mother. She thinks, I suppose, just what we all think, that it would
have been better if he had told everybody of his marriage sooner."

"A great deal better."

"I don't know whether, after all, it will make a great deal of difference. Lady Brotherton,--the
Dowager I mean,--is so thoroughly English in all her ways that she never could have got on
very well with an Italian daughter-in-law."

"The question is whether when a man springs a wife and family on his relations in that way,
everything can be taken for granted. Suppose a man had been ever so many years in Kamptschatka,
and had then come back with a Kamptschatkean female, calling her his wife, would everybody
take it as all gospel?"

"I suppose so."

"Do you? I think not. In the first place it might be difficult for an Englishman to get himself
married in that country according to English laws, and in the next, when there, he would hardly
wish to do so."

"Italy is not Kamptschatka, Miss Houghton."

"Certainly not; and it isn't England. People are talking about it a great deal, and seem to
think that the Italian lady oughtn't to have a walk over."

Miss Houghton had heard a good deal about races from her brother, and the phrase she had used
was quite an everyday word to her. Lady George did not understand it, but felt that Miss Houghton
was talking very freely about a very delicate matter. And she remembered at the same time what
had been the aspirations of the lady's earlier life, and put down a good deal of what was said
to personal jealousy. "Papa," she said, as she went home, "it seems to me that people here
talk a great deal about one's private concerns."

"You mean about Lord Brotherton's marriage."

"That among other things."

"Of course they will talk about that. It is hardly to be considered private. And I don't know
but what the more it is talked about the better for us. It is felt to be a public scandal,
and that feeling may help us."

"Oh, papa, I wish you wouldn't think that we wanted any help."

"We want the truth, my dear, and we must have it."

On the next day they met Jack De Baron in the park. They had not been long together before
the Dean saw an old friend on the footpath and stopped to speak to him. Mary would have stayed
too, had not her horse displayed an inclination to go on, and that she had felt herself unwilling
to make an effort in the matter. As she rode on with Captain De Baron she remembered all that
had been said by Guss Mildmay and Mrs. Houghton, and remembered also her own decision that
nothing of that kind could matter to her. It was an understood thing that ladies and gentlemen
when riding should fall into this kind of intercourse. Her father was with her, and it would
be absurd that she should be afraid to be a minute or two out of his sight. "I ought to have
been hunting," said Jack; "but there was frost last night, and I do hate going down and being
told that the ground is as hard as brickbats at the kennels, while men are ploughing all over
the country. And now it's a delicious spring day."

"You didn't like getting up, Captain De Baron," she said.

"Perhaps there's something in that. Don't you think getting up is a mistake? My idea of a perfect
world is one where nobody would ever have to get up."

"I shouldn't at all like always to lie in bed."

"But there might be some sort of arrangement to do away with the nuisance. See what a good
time the dogs have."

"Now, Captain De Baron, would you like to be a dog?" This she said turning round and looking
him full in the face.

"Your dog I would." At that moment, just over his horse's withers, she saw the face of Guss
Mildmay who was leaning on her father's arm. Guss bowed to her, and she was obliged to return
the salute. Jack De Baron turned his face to the path and seeing the lady raised his hat. "Are
you two friends?" he asked.

"Not particularly."

"I wish you were. But, of course, I have no right to wish in such a matter as that." Lady George
felt that she wished that Guss Mildmay had not seen her riding in the park on that day with
Jack De Baron.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE DISABILITIES.

It had been arranged that on Friday evening Lady George should call for Aunt Ju in Green Street,
and that they should go together to the Institute in the Marylebone Road. The real and full
name of the college, as some ladies delighted to call it, was, though somewhat lengthy, placarded
in big letters on a long black board on the front of the building, and was as follows, "Rights
of Women Institute; Established for the Relief of the Disabilities of Females." By friendly
tongues to friendly ears "The College" or "the Institute" was the pleasant name used; but the
irreverent public was apt to speak of the building generally as the "Female Disabilities."
And the title was made even shorter. Omnibuses were desired to stop at the "Disabilities;"
and it had become notorious that it was just a mile from King's Cross to the "Disabilities."
There had been serious thoughts among those who were dominant in the Institute of taking down
the big board and dropping the word. But then a change of a name implies such a confession
of failure! It had on the whole been thought better to maintain the courage of the opinion
which had first made the mistake. "So you're going to the Disabilities, are you?" Mrs. Houghton
had said to Lady George.

"I'm to be taken by old Miss Mildmay."

"Oh, yes; Aunt Ju is a sort of first-class priestess among them. Don't let them bind you over
to belong to them. Don't go in for it." Lady George had declared it to be very improbable that
she should go in for it, but had adhered to her determination of visiting the Institute.

She called in Green Street fearing that she should see Guss Mildmay whom she had determined
to keep at arm's distance as well as her friendship with Mrs. Houghton would permit; but Aunt
Ju was ready for her in the passage. "I forgot to tell you that we ought to be a little early,
as I have to take the chair. I daresay we shall do very well," she added, "if the man drives
fast. But the thing is so important! One doesn't like to be flurried when one gets up to make
the preliminary address." The only public meetings at which Mary had ever been present had
appertained to certain lectures at Brotherton, at which her father or some other clerical dignity
had presided, and she could not as yet understand that such a duty should be performed by a
woman. She muttered something expressing a hope that all would go right. "I've got to introduce
the Baroness, you know."

"Introduce the Baroness?"

"The Baroness Banmann. Haven't you seen the bill of the evening? The Baroness is going to address
the meeting on the propriety of patronising female artists,--especially in regard to architecture.
A combined college of female architects is to be established in Posen and Chicago, and why
should we not have a branch in London, which is the centre of the world?"

"Would a woman have to build a house?" asked Lady George.

"She would draw the plans, and devise the proportions, and--and--do the æsthetic part of it.
An architect doesn't carry bricks on his back, my dear."

"But he walks over planks, I suppose."

"And so could I walk over a plank; why not as well as a man? But you will hear what the Baroness
says. The worst is that I am a little afraid of her English."

"She's a foreigner, of course. How will she manage?"

