Opening the sewer trenches cost a little more, for they were as deep as those for the water,
and a little wider. Eight hundred feet of main sewer, a three-hundred-foot branch to the house,
and short branches from barns, pens, and farm-houses, made in all about fourteen hundred feet,
which cost $83 to open. The sewer ended in the stable yard back of the horse barn, in a ten-foot
catch-basin near the manure pit. A few feet from this catch-basin was a second, and beyond
this a third, all of the same size, with drain-pipes connecting them about two feet below the
ground. These basins were closely covered at all times, and in winter they were protected from
frost by a thick layer of coarse manure. They were placed near the site of the manure pit for
convenience in cleaning, which had to be done every three months for the first one, once in
six months for the second and rarely for the third; indeed, the water flowing from the third
was always clear. This waste water was run through a drain-pipe diagonally across the northwest
corner of the big orchard to an open ditch in the north lane. Opening this drain of forty rods
cost $30. Later I carried this closed drain to the creek, at an additional expense of $67.
The connecting of the water pipes and the laying of the sewer was done by a local plumber for
$50; the drain-pipe and sewer-pipe cost $112; and the three catch-basins, bricked up and covered
with two-inch plank, cost $63. The filling in of all these trenches was done by my own men
with teams and scrapers, and should not be figured into this expense account. It must be borne
in mind that while this elaborate water system was being installed, no buildings were completed
and but few were even begun; the big house was not finished for more than a year. The sites
of all the buildings had been decided on, and the farm-house and the cottage had been moved
and remodelled, by the middle of October, at which date the water plant was completed. An abundant
supply of good water is essential to the comfort of man and beast, and the money invested in
securing it will pay a good interest in the long run. My water plant cost me a lot of money,
$2758; but it hasn't cost me $10 a year since it was finished.

CHAPTER VI

WE TAKE POSSESSION

My barn was full of horses, but none of them was fit for farm work; so I engaged a veterinary
surgeon to find three suitable teams. By the 25th of the month he had succeeded, and I inspected
the animals and found them satisfactory, though not so smooth and smart-looking as I had pictured
them. When I compared them, somewhat unfavorably, with the teams used for city trucks and delivery
wagons, he retorted by saying: "I did not know that you wanted to pay $1200 a pair for your
horses. These six horses will cost you $750, and they are worth it." They were a sturdy lot,
young, well matched, not so large as to be unwieldy, but heavy enough for almost any work.
The lightest was said to weigh 1375 pounds, and the heaviest not more than a hundred pounds
more. Two of the teams were bay with a sprinkling of white feet, while the other pair was red
roan, and, to my mind, the best looking.

Four of these horses are still doing service on the farm, after more than seven years. One
of the bays died in the summer of '98, and one of the roans broke his stifle during the following
winter and had to be shot. The bereaved relicts of these two pairs have taken kindly to each
other, and now walk soberly side by side in double harness. I sometimes think, however, that
I see a difference. The personal relation is not just as it was in the old union,--no bickerings
or disagreements, but also no jokes and no caresses. The soft nose doesn't seek its neighbor's
neck, there is no resting of chin on friendly withers while half-closed eyes see visions of
cool shades, running brooks, and knee-deep clover; and the urgent whinney which called one
to the other and told of loneliness when separated is no longer heard. It is pathetic to think
that these good creatures have been robbed of the one thing which gave color to their lives
and lifted them above the dreary treadmill of duty for duty's sake. The kindly friendship of
each for his yoke-fellow is not the old sympathetic companionship, which will come again only
when the cooling breezes, running brooks, and knee-deep pastures of the good horse's heaven
are reached.

A horse is wonderfully sensitive for an animal of his size and strength. He is timid by nature
and his courage comes only from his confidence in man. His speed, strength, and endurance he
will willingly give, and give it to the utmost, if the hand that guides is strong and gentle,
and the voice that controls is firm, confident, and friendly. Lack of courage in the master
takes from the horse his only chance of being brave; lack of steadiness makes him indirect
and futile; lack of kindness frightens him into actions which are the result of terror at first,
and which become vices only by mismanagement. By nature the horse is good. If he learns bad
manners by associating with bad men, we ought to lay the blame where it belongs. A kind master
will make a kind horse; and I have no respect for a man who has had the privilege of training
a horse from colt-hood and has failed to turn out a good one. Lack of good sense, or cruelty,
is at the root of these failures. One can forgive lack of sense, for men are as God made them;
but there is no forgiveness for the cruel: cooling shades and running brooks will not be prominent
features in their ultimate landscapes.

For harness and farm equipments, tools and machinery, I went to a reliable firm which made
most and handled the rest of the things that make a well-equipped farm. It is best to do much
of one's business through one house, provided, of course, that the house is dependable. You
become a valued customer whom it is important to please, you receive discounts, rebates, and
concessions that are worth something, and a community of interest grows up that is worth much.

My first order to this house was for three heavy wagons with four-inch tires, three sets of
heavy harness, two ploughs and a subsoiler, three harrows (disk, spring tooth, and flat), a
steel land-roller, two wheelbarrows, an iron scraper, fly nets and other stable equipment,
shovels, spades, hay forks, posthole tools, a hand seeder, a chest of tools, stock-pails, milk-pails
and pans, axes, hatchets, saws of various kinds, a maul and wedges, six kegs of nails, and
three lanterns. The total amount was $488; but as I received five per cent discount, I paid
only $464. The goods, except the wagons and harnesses, were to go by freight to Exeter. Polly
was to buy the necessary furnishings for the men's house, the only stipulation I made being
that the beds should be good enough for me to sleep in. On the 25th of July she showed me a
list of the things which she had purchased. It seemed interminable; but she assured me that
she had bought nothing unnecessary, and that she had been very careful in all her purchases.
As I knew that Polly was in the habit of getting the worth of her money, I paid the bills without
more ado. The list footed up to $495.

Most of the housekeeping things were to be delivered at the station in Exeter; the rest were
to go on the wagons. On the afternoon of the 30th the wagons and harnesses were sent to the
stable where the horses had been kept, and the articles to go in these wagons were loaded for
an early start the following morning. The distance from the station in the city to the station
at Exeter is thirty miles, but the stable is three miles from the city station, the farm two
and a half miles from Exeter station, and the wagon road not so direct as the railroad. The
trip to the farm, therefore, could not be much less than forty miles, and would require the
best part of two days. The three men whom I had engaged reported for duty, as also did Thompson's
son, whom we are to know hereafter as Zeb.

Early on the last day of the month the men and teams were off, with cooked provisions for three
days. They were to break the journey twenty-five miles out, and expected to reach the farm
the next afternoon. Polly and I wished to see them arrive, so we took the train at 1 P.M. August
1st, and reached Four Oaks at 2.30, taking with us Mrs. Thompson, who was to cook for the men.

Before starting I had telephoned a local carpenter to meet me, and to bring a mason if possible.
I found both men on the ground, and explained to them that there would be abundant work in
their lines on the place for the next year or two, that I was perfectly willing to pay a reasonable
profit on each job, but that I did not propose to make them rich out of any single contract.

The first thing to do, I told them, was to move the large farm-house to the site already chosen,
about two hundred yards distant, enlarge it, and put a first-class cellar under the whole.
The principal change needed in the house was an additional story on the ell, which would give
a chamber eighteen by twenty-six, with closets five feet deep, to be used as a sleeping room
for the men. I intended to change the sitting room, which ran across the main house, into a
dining and reading room twenty feet by twenty-five, and to improve the shape and convenience
of the kitchen by pantry and lavatory. There must also be a well-appointed bathroom on the
upper floor, and set tubs in the kitchen. My men would dig the cellar, and the mason was to
put in the foundation walls (twelve inches thick and two feet above ground), the cross or division
walls, and the chimneys. He was also to put down a first-class cement floor over the whole
cellar and approach. The house was to be heated by a hot-water system; and I afterward let
this job to a city man, who put in a satisfactory plant for $500.

We had hardly finished with the carpenter and the mason when we saw our wagons turning into
the grounds. We left the contractors to their measurements, plans, and figures, while we hastened
to turn the teams back, as they must go to the cottage on the north forty. The horses looked
a little done up by the heat and the unaccustomed journey, but Thompson said: "They're all
right,--stood it first-rate."

The cottage and out-buildings furnished scanty accommodations for men and beasts, but they
were all that we could provide. I told the men to make themselves and the horses as comfortable
as they could, then to milk the cows and feed the hogs, and call it a day.

While the others were unloading and getting things into shape, I called Thompson off for a
talk. "Thompson," I said, "you are to have the oversight of the work here for the present,
and I want you to have some idea of my general plan. This experiment at farming is to last
years. We won't look for results until we are ready to force them, but we are to get ready
as soon as possible. In the meantime, we will have to do things in an awkward fashion, and
not always for immediate effect. We must build the factory before we can turn out the finished
product. The cows, for instance, must be cared for until we can dispose of them to advantage.
Half of them, I fancy, are 'robber cows,' not worth their keep (if it costs anything to feed
them), and we will certainly not winter them. Keep your eye on the herd, and be able to tell
me if any of them will pay. Milk them carefully, and use what milk, cream, and butter you can,
but don't waste useful time carting milk to market--feed it to the hogs rather. If a farmer
or a milkman will call for it, sell what you have to spare for what he will give, and have
done with it quickly. You are to manage the hogs on the same principle. Fatten those which
are ready for it, with anything you find on the place. We will get rid of the whole bunch as
soon as possible. You see, I must first clear the ground before I can build my factory. Let
the hens alone for the present; you can eat them during the winter.

"Now, about the crops. The hay in barns and stacks is all right; the wheat is ready for threshing,
but it can wait until the oats are also ready; the corn is weedy, but it is too late to help
it, and the potatoes are probably covered with bugs. I will send out to-morrow some Paris green
and a couple of blow-guns. There is not much real farm work to do just now, and you will have
time for other things. The first and most important thing is to dig a cellar to put your house
over; your comfort depends on that. Get the men and horses with plough and scraper out as early
as you can to-morrow morning, and hustle. You have nothing to do but dig a big hole seven feet
deep inside these lines. I count on you to keep things moving, and I will be out the day after
to-morrow."

The mason had finished his estimate, which was $560. After some explanations, I concluded that
it was a fair price, and agreed to it, provided the work could be done promptly. The carpenter
was not ready to give me figures; he said, however, that he could get a man to move the house
for $120, and that he would send me by mail that night an itemized estimate of costs, and also
one from a plumber. This seemed like doing a lot of things in one afternoon, so Polly and I
started for town content.

"Those people can't be very luxurious out there," said Polly, "but they can have good food
and clean beds. They have all out-doors to breathe in, and I do not see what more one can ask
on a fine August evening, do you, Mr. Headman?"

I could think of a few things, but I did not mention them, for her first words recalled some
scenes of my early life on a backwoods farm: the log cabin, with hardly ten nails in it, the
latch-string, the wide-mouthed stone-and-stick chimney, the spring-house with its deep crocks,
the smoke-house made of a hollow gum-tree log, the ladder to the loft where I slept, and where
the snows would drift on the floor through the rifts in the split clapboards that roofed me
over. I wondered if to-day was so much better than yesterday as conditions would warrant us
in expecting.

CHAPTER VII

THE HORSE-AND-BUGGY MAN

August 3 found me at Four Oaks in the early afternoon. A great hollow had been dug for the
cellar, and Thompson said that it would take but one more full day to finish it. Piles of material
gave evidence that the mason was alert, and the house-mover had already dropped his long timbers,
winch, and chains by the side of the farm-house.

While I was discussing matters with Thompson, a smart trap turned into the lot, and a well-set-up
young man sprang out of the stylish runabout and said,--

"Dr. Williams, I hear you want more help on your farm."

"I can use another man or two to advantage, if they are good ones."

"Well, I don't want to brag, but I guess I am a good one, all right. I ain't afraid of work,
and there isn't much that I can't do on a farm. What wages do you pay?"

I told him my plan of an increasing wage scale, and he did not object. "That includes horse
keep, I suppose?" said he.

"I do not know what you mean by 'horse keep.'"

"Why, most of the men on farms around here own a horse and buggy, to use nights, Sundays, and
holidays, and we expect the boss to keep the horse. This is my rig. It is about the best in
the township; cost me $280 for the outfit."

"See here, young man, this is another specimen of farm economics, and it is one of the worst
in the lot. Let me do a small example in mental arithmetic for you. The interest on $280 is
$14; the yearly depreciation of your property, without accidents, is at least $40; horse-shoeing
and repairs, $20; loss of wages (for no man will keep your horse for less than $4 a month),
$48. In addition to this, you will be tempted to spend at least $5 a month more with a horse
than without one; that is $60 more. You are throwing away $182 every year without adding $1
to your value as an employee, one ounce of dignity to your employment, or one foot of gain
in your social position, no matter from what point you view it.

"Taking it for granted that you receive $25 a month for every month of the year (and this is
admitting too much), you waste more than half on that blessed rig, and you can make no provision
for the future, for sickness, or for old age. No, I will not keep your horse, nor will I employ
any man whose scheme of life doesn't run further than the ownership of a horse and buggy."

"But a fellow must keep up with the procession; he must have some recreation, and all the men
around here have rigs."

"Not around Four Oaks. Recreation is all right, but find it in ways less expensive. Read, study,
cultivate the best of your kind, plan for the future and save for it, and you will not lack
for recreation. Sell your horse and buggy for $200, if you cannot get more, put the money at
interest, save $200 out of your wages, and by the end of the year you will be worth over $400
in hard cash and much more in self-respect. You can easily add 1200 a year to your savings,
without missing anything worth while; and it will not be long before you can buy a farm, marry
a wife, and make an independent position. I will have no horse-and-buggy men on my farm. It's
up to you."

"By Jove! I believe you may be right. It looks like a square deal, and I'll play it, if you'll
give me time to sell the outfit."

"All right, come when you can. I'll find the work."

That day being Saturday, I told Thompson that I would come out early Monday morning, bringing
with me a rough map of the place as I had planned it, and we would go over it with a chain
and drive some outlining stakes. I then returned to Exeter, found the carpenter and the plumber,
and accepted their estimates,--$630 and $325, respectively. The farm-house moved, finished,
furnished, and heated, but not painted or papered, would cost $2630. Painting, papering, window-shades,
and odds and ends cost $275, making a total of $2905. It proved a good investment, for it was
a comfortable and convenient home for the men and women who afterward occupied it. It has certainly
been appreciated by its occupants, and few have left it without regret. We have always tried
to make it an object lesson of cleanliness and cheerfulness, and I don't think a man has lived
in it for six months without being bettered. It seemed a good deal of money to put on an old
farm-house for farm-hands, but it proved one of the best investments at Four Oaks, for it kept
the men contented and cheerful workers.

CHAPTER VIII

WE PLAT THE FARM

On Monday I was out by ten o'clock, armed with a surveyor's chain. Thompson had provided a
lot of stakes, and we ran the lines, more or less straight, in general accord with my sketch
plan. We walked, measured, estimated, and drove stakes until noon. At one o'clock we were at
it again, and by four I was fit to drop from fatigue. Farm work was new to me, and I was soft
as soft. I had, however, got the general lay of the land, and could, by the help of the plan,
talk of its future subdivisions by numerals,--an arrangement that afterward proved definite
and convenient. We adjourned to the shade of the big black oak on the knoll, and discussed
the work in hand.

"You cannot finish the cellar before to-morrow night," I said, "because it grows slower as
it grows deeper; but that will be doing well enough. I want you to start two teams ploughing
Wednesday morning, and keep them going every day until the frost stops them. Let Sam take the
plough, and have young Thompson follow with the subsoiler. Have them stick to this as a regular
diet until I call them off. They are to commence in the wheat stubble where lots six and seven
will be. I am going to try alfalfa in that ground, though I am not at all sure that it will
do well, and the soil must be fitted as well as possible. After it has had deep ploughing it
is to be crossed with the disk harrow; then have it rolled, disk it again, and then use the
flat harrow until it feels as near like an ash heap as time will permit. We must get the seed
in before September."

"We will need another team if you keep two ploughing and one on the harrow," said Thompson.

"You are right, and that means another $400, but you shall have it. We must not stop the ploughs
for anything. Numbers 10, 11, 14, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and much of the home lot, ought to be ploughed
before snow flies. That means about 160 acres,--80 odd days of steady work for the ploughmen
and horses. You will probably find it best to change teams from time to time. A little variety
will make it easier for them. As soon as 6 and 7 are finished, turn the ploughs into the 40
acres which make lots 1 to 5. All that must be seeded to pasture grass, for it will be our
feeding-ground, and we'll be late with it if we don't look sharp.

"We must have more help, by the way. That horse-and-buggy man, Judson, is almost sure to come,
and I will find another. Some of you will have to bunk in the hay for the present, for I am
going to send out a woman to help your wife. Six men can do a lot of work, but there is a tremendous
lot of work to do. We must fit the ground and plant at least three thousand apple trees before
the end of November, and we ought to fence this whole plantation. Speaking of fences reminds
me that I must order the cedar posts. Have you any idea how many posts it will take to fence
this farm as we have platted it? I suppose not. Well, I can tell you. Twenty-two hundred and
fifty at one rod apart, or 1850 at twenty feet apart. These posts must be six feet above and
three feet below ground. They will cost eighteen cents each. That item will be $333, for there
are seven miles of fence, including the line fence between me and my north neighbor. I am going
to build that fence myself, and then I shall know whose fault it is if his stock breaks through.
Of course some of the old posts are good, but I don't believe one in twenty is long enough
for my purpose."

"What do you buy cedar posts for, when you have enough better ones on the place?" asked Thompson.

"I don't know what you mean."

"Well, down in the wood yonder there's enough dead white oak, standing or on the ground, to
make three thousand, nine-foot posts, and one seasoned white oak will outlast two cedars, and
it is twice as strong."

"Well, that's good! How much will it cost to get them out?"

"About five cents apiece. A couple of smart fellows can make good wages at that price."

"Good. We will save thirteen cents each. They will cost $93 instead of $333. I don't know everything
yet, do I, Thompson?"

"You learn easy, I reckon."

"Keep your eyes and ears open, and if you find any one who can do this job, let him have it,
for we are going to be too busy with other things at present. It's time for me to be off. I
cannot be out again till Thursday, for I must find a man, a woman, and a team of horses and
all that goes with them. I'll see you on the 8th at any rate."

I was dead tired when I reached home; but there wasn't a grain of depression in my fatigue,--rather
a sense of elation. I felt that for the first time in thirty years real things were doing and
I was having a hand in them. The fatigue was the same old tire that used to come after a hard
day on my father's farm, and the sense was so suggestive of youth that I could not help feeling
younger. I have never gotten away from the faith that the real seed of life lies hidden in
the soil; that the man who gives it a chance to germinate is a benefactor, and that things
done in connection with land are about the only real things. I have grown younger, stronger,
happier, with each year of personal contact with the soil. I am thankful for seven years of
it, and look forward to twice seven more. I have lost the softness which nearly wilted me that
5th day of August, and with the softness has gone twenty or thirty pounds of useless flesh.
I am hard, active, and strong for a man of sixty, and I can do a fair day's work. To tell the
truth, I prefer the moderate work that falls to the lot of the Headman, rather than the more
strenuous life of the husbandman; but I find an infinite deal to thank the farm for in health
and physical comfort.

CHAPTER IX

HOUSE-CLEANING

After dinner I telephoned the veterinary surgeon that I wanted another team. He replied that
he thought he knew of one that would suit, and that he would let me know the next day. I also
telephoned two "want ads." to a morning paper, one for an experienced farm-hand, the other
for a woman to do general housework in the country. Polly was to interview the women who applied,
and I was to look after the men. That night I slept like a hired man.

Out of the dozen who applied the next day I accepted a Swede by the name of Anderson. He was
about thirty, tall, thin, and nervous. He did not fit my idea of a stockman, but he looked
like a worker, and as I could furnish the work we soon came to terms.

A few words more about Anderson. He proved a worker indeed. He had an insatiable appetite for
work, and never knew when to quit. He was not popular at the farm, for he was too eager in
the morning to start and too loath in the evening to stop. His unbridled passion for work was
a thing to be deplored, as it kept him thin and nervous. I tried to moderate this propensity,
but with no result. Anderson could not be trusted with horses, or, indeed, with animals of
any kind, for he made them as nervous as himself; but in all other kinds of work he was the
best man ever at Four Oaks. He worked for me nearly three years, and then suddenly gave out
from a pain in his left chest and shortness of breath. I called a physician for poor Anderson,
and the diagnosis was dilatation of the heart from over-exercise.

"A rare disease among farm-hands, Dr. Williams," said Dr. High, but my conscience did not fully
forgive me. I asked Anderson to stay at the farm and see what could be done by rest and care.
He declined this, as well as my offer to send him to a hospital. He expressed the liveliest
gratitude for kindnesses received and others offered, but he said he must be independent and
free. He had nearly $1200 in a savings bank in the city, and he proposed to use it, or such
portion of it as was necessary. I saw him two months later. He was better, but not able to
work. Hearing nothing from him for three years, a year ago I called at the bank where I knew
he had kept his savings. They had sent sums of money to him, once to Rio Janeiro and once to
Cape Town. For two years he had not been heard from. Whether he is living or dead I do not
know. I only know that a valuable man and a unique farm-hand has disappeared. I never think
of Anderson without wishing I had been more severe with him,--more persistent in my efforts
to wean him from his real passion. Peace to his ashes, if he be ashes.

That same day I telephoned the Agricultural Implement Company to send me another wagon, with
harness and equipment for the team. The veterinary surgeon reported that he had a span of mares
for me to look at, but I was too much engaged that day to inspect the team, and promised to
do so on the next.

When I reached home, Polly said she had found nothing in the way of a general housework girl
for the country. She had seen nine women who wished to do all other kinds of work, but none
to fit her wants.

"What do they come for if they don't want the place we described? Do they expect we are to
change our plans of life to suit their personal notions?" she asked.

"It's hard to say what they came for or what they want. Their ways are past finding out. We
will put in another 'ad.' and perhaps have better luck."

Wednesday, the 7th, I went to see the new team. I found a pair of flea-bitten gray Flemish
mares, weighing about twenty-eight hundred pounds. They were four years old, short of leg and
long of body, and looked fit. The surgeon passed them sound, and said he considered them well
worth the price asked,--$300. I was pleased with the team, and remembered a remark I had heard
as a boy from an itinerant Methodist minister at a time when the itinerant minister was supposed
to know all there was to know about horse-flesh. This was his remark: "There was never a flea-bitten
mare that was a poor horse." In spite of its ambiguity, the saying made an impression from
which I never recovered. I always expected great things from flea-bitten grays.

The team, wagon, harness, etc., added $395 to the debit account against the farm. Polly secured
her girl,--a green German who had not been long enough in America to despise the country.

"She doesn't know a thing about our ways," said Polly, "but Mrs. Thompson can train her as
she likes. If you can spend time enough with green girls, they are apt to grow to your liking."

On Thursday I saw Anderson and the new team safely started for the farm. Then Polly, the new
girl, and I took train for the most interesting spot on earth.

Soon after we arrived I lost sight of Polly, who seemed to have business of her own. I found
the mason and his men at work on the cellar wall, which was almost to the top of the ground.
The house was on wheels, and had made most of its journey. The house mover was in a rage because
he had to put the house on a hole instead of on solid ground, as he had expected. "I have sent
for every stick of timber and every cobbling block I own, to get this house over that hole;
there's no money in this job for me; you ought to have dug the cellar after the house was placed,"
said he.

I made friends with him by agreeing to pay $30 more for the job. The house was safely placed,
and by Saturday night the foundation walls were finished.

Sam and Zeb had made a good beginning on the ploughing, the teams were doing well for green
ones, and the men seemed to understand what good ploughing meant. Thompson and Johnson had
spent parts of two days in the potato patches in deadly conflict with the bugs.

"We've done for most of them this time," said Thompson, "but we'll have to go over the ground
again by Monday."

The next piece of work was to clear the north forty (lots 1 to 5) of all fences, stumps, stones,
and rubbish, and all buildings except the cottage. The barn was to be torn down, and the horses
were to be temporarily stabled in the old barn on the home lot. Useful timbers and lumber were
to be snugly piled, the manure around the barns was to be spread under the old apple trees,
which were in lot No. 1, and everything not useful was to be burned. "Make a clean sweep, and
leave it as bare as your hand," I told Thompson. "It must be ready for the plough as soon as
possible."

Judson, the man with the buggy, reported at noon. He came with bag and baggage, but not with
buggy, and said that he came to stay.

"Thompson," said I, "you are to put Judson in charge of the roan team to follow the boys when
they are far enough ahead of him. In the meantime he and the team will be with you and Johnson
in this house-cleaning. By to-morrow night Anderson and the new team will get in, and they,
too, will help on this job. I want you to take personal charge of the gray team,--neither Johnson
nor Anderson is the right sort to handle horses. The new team will do the trucking about and
the regular farm work, while the other three are kept steadily at the ploughs and harrows."

The cleaning of the north forty proved a long job. Four men and two teams worked hard for ten
days, and then it was not finished. By that time the ploughmen had finished 6 and 7, and were
ready to begin on No. 1. Judson, with the roans and harrows, was sent to the twenty acres of
ploughed ground, and Zeb and his team were put at the cleaning for three days, while Sam ploughed
the six acres of old orchard with a shallow-set plough. The feeding roots of these trees would
have been seriously injured if we had followed the deep ploughing practised in the open. By
August 24 about two hundred loads of manure from the barn-yards, the accumulation of years,
had been spread under the apple trees, and I felt sure it was well bestowed. Manuring, turning
the sod, pruning, and spraying, ought to give a good crop of fruit next year.

We had several days of rain during this time, which interfered somewhat with the work, but
the rains were gratefully received. I spent much of my time at Four Oaks, often going every
day, and never let more than two days pass without spending some hours on the farm. To many
of my friends this seemed a waste of time. They said, "Williams is carrying this fad too far,--spending
too much time on it."

Polly did not agree with them, neither did I. Time is precious only as we make it so. To do
the wholesome, satisfying thing, without direct or indirect injury to others, is the privilege
of every man. To the charge of neglecting my profession I pleaded not guilty, for my profession
had dismissed me without so much as saying "By your leave." I was obliged to change my mode
of life, and I chose to be a producer rather than a consumer of things produced by others.
I was conserving my health, pleasing my wife, and at the same time gratifying a desire which
had long possessed me. I have neither apology to make nor regret to record; for as individuals
and as a family we have lived healthier, happier, more wholesome, and more natural lives on
the farm than we ever did in the city, and that is saying much.

CHAPTER X

FENCED IN

On the 26th, when I reached the station at Exeter, I found Thompson and the gray team just
starting for the farm with the second load of wire fencing. I had ordered fifty-six rolls of
Page's woven wire fence, forty rods in each roll. This fence cost me seventy cents a rod, $224
a mile, or $1568 for the seven miles. Add to this $37 for freight, and the total amounted to
$1605 for the wire to fence my land. I got this facer as I climbed to the seat beside Thompson.
I did not blink, however, for I had resolved in the beginning to take no account of details
until the 31st day of December, and to spend as much on the farm in that time as I could without
being wasteful. I did not care much what others thought. I felt that at my age time was precious,
and that things must be rushed as rapidly as possible.

I was glad of this slow ride with Thompson, for it gave me an opportunity to study him. I wondered
then and afterward why a man of his general intelligence, industry, and special knowledge of
the details of farming, should fail of success when working for himself. He knew ten times
as much about the business as I did, and yet he had not succeeded in an independent position.
Some quality, like broadness of mind or directness of purpose, was lacking, which made him
incapable of carrying out a plan, no matter how well conceived. He was like Hooker at Chancellorsville,
whose plan of campaign was perfect, whose orders were carried out with exactness, whose army
fell into line as he wished, and whose enemy did the obvious thing, yet who failed terribly
because the responsibility of the ultimate was greater than he could bear. As second in command,
or as corps leader, he was superb; in independent command he was a disastrous failure.

Thompson, then, was a Joe Hooker on a reduced plane,--good only to execute another man's plans.
Thompson might have rebutted this by saying that I too might prove a disastrous failure; that
as yet I had shown only ability to spend,--perhaps not always wisely. Such rebuttal would have
had weight seven years ago, but it would not be accepted to-day, for I have made my campaign
and won my battle. The record of the past seven years shows that I can plan and also execute.

Thompson told me that he had found two woodsmen (by scouting around on Sunday) who were glad
to take the job of cutting the white-oak posts at five cents each, and that they were even
then at work; and that Nos. 6 and 7 would be fitted for alfalfa by the end of the week. He
added that the seed ought to be sown as soon thereafter as possible and that a liberal dressing
of commercial fertilizer should be sown before the seed was harrowed in.

"I have ordered five tons of fertilizer," I said, "and it ought to be here this week. Sow four
bags to the acre."

"Four bags,--eight hundred pounds; that's pretty expensive. Costs, I suppose, $35 to $40 a ton."

"No; $24."

"How's that?"

"Friend at court; factory price; $120 for five tons; $5 freight, making in all $125. We must
use at least eight hundred pounds this fall and five hundred in the spring. Alfalfa is an experiment,
and we must give it a show."

"Never saw anything done with alfalfa in this region, but they never took no pains with it,"
said Thompson.

"I hope it will grow for us, for it is great forage if properly managed. The seed will be out
this week, and you had best sow it on Monday, the 2d."

"How are you going to seed the north forty?"

"Timothy, red top, and blue grass; heavy seeding, to get rid of the weeds. These lots will
all be used as stock lots. Small ones, you think, but we will depend almost entirely upon soiling.
I hope to keep a fair sod on these lots, and they will be large enough to give the animals
exercise and keep them healthy. I hope the carpenter is pushing things on the house. I want
to get you into better quarters as soon as possible, and I want the cottage moved out of the
way before we seed the lot."

"They're pushing things all right, I guess; that man Nelson is a hustler."

When I reached the farm I found Johnson and Anderson tearing down the old fence that was our
eastern boundary. None of the posts were long enough for my purpose, so all were consigned
to the woodpile.

My neighbor on the north owned just as much land as I did. He inherited it and a moderate bank
account from his father, who in turn had it from his. The farm was well kept and productive.
The house and barns were substantial and in good repair. The owner did general farming, raised
wheat, corn, and oats to sell, milked twenty cows and sent the milk to the creamery, sold one
or two cows and a dozen calves each year, and fattened twenty or thirty pigs. He was pretty
certain to add a few hundred dollars to his bank account at the end of each season. He kept
one man all the time and two in summer. He was a bachelor of twenty-eight, well liked and good
to look upon: five feet ten inches in height, broad of shoulder, deep of chest, and a very
Hercules in strength. His face was handsome, square-jawed and strong. He was good-natured,
but easily roused, and when angry was as fierce as fire. He had the reputation of being the
hardest fighter in the country. His name was William Jackson, so he was called Bill. I had
met Jackson often, and we had taken kindly to each other. I admired his frank manner and sturdy
physique, and he looked upon me as a good-natured tenderfoot, who might be companionable, and
who would certainly stir up things in the neighborhood. I went in search of him that afternoon
to discuss the line fence, a full mile of which divided our lands.

"I want to put a fence along our line which nothing can get over or under," I said. "I am willing
to bear the expense of the new fence if you will take away the old one and plough eight furrows,--four
on your land and four on mine,--to be seeded to grass before the wires are stretched. We ought
to get rid of the weeds and brush."

"That is a liberal proposition, Dr. Williams, and of course I accept," said Jackson; "but I
ought to do more. I'll tell you what I'll do. You are planning to put a ring fence around your
land,--three miles in all. I'll plough the whole business and fit it for the seed. I'll take
one of my men, four horses, and a grub plough, and do it whenever you are ready."

This settled the fence matter between Jackson and me. The men who cut the posts took the job
of setting them, stretching the wire, and hanging the gates, for $400. This included the staples
and also the stretching of three strands of barbed wire above the woven wire; two at six-inch
intervals on the outside, and one inside, level with the top of the post. Thus my ring fence
was six feet high and hard to climb. I have a serious dislike for trespass, from either man
or beast, and my boundary fence was made to discourage trespassers. I like to have those who
enter my property do so by the ways provided, for "whoso climbeth up any other way, the same
is a thief and a robber."

The ring fence was finished by the middle of October. The interior fences were built by my
own men during soft weather in winter and spring; and, as I had already paid for the wire and
posts, nothing more should be charged to the fence account. In round numbers these seven miles
of excellent fence cost me $2100. A lot of money! But the fence is there to-day as serviceable
as when it was set, and it will stand for twice seven years more. One hundred dollars a year
is not a great price to pay for the security and seclusion which a good fence furnishes. There
was no need of putting up so much interior fence. I would save a mile or two if I had it to
do again; however, I do not dislike my straight lanes and tightly fenced fields.

CHAPTER XI

THE BUILDING LINE

Before leaving Four Oaks that day I had a long conversation with Nelson, the carpenter. I had
taken his measure, by inquiry and observation, and was willing to put work into his hands as
fast as he could attend to it. The first thing was to put him in possession of my plan of a
building line.

Two hundred feet south of the north line of the home lot a street or lane was to run due west
from the gate on the main road. This was to be the teaming or business entrance to the farm.
Commencing three hundred feet from the east end of this drive, the structures were to be as
follows: On the south side, first a cold-storage house, then the farm-house, the cottage, the
well, and finally the carriage barn for the big house. On the north side of the line, opposite
the ice-house, the dairy-house; then a square with a small power-house for its centre, a woodhouse,
a horse barn for the farm horses, a granary and a forage barn for its four corners. Beyond
this square to the west was the fruit-house and the tool-house--the latter large enough to
house all the farm machinery we should ever need. I have a horror of the economy that leaves
good tools to sky and clouds without protection. This sketch would not be worked out for a
long time, as few of the buildings were needed at once. It was made for the sake of having
a general design to be carried out when required; and the water and sewer system had been built
with reference to it.

I told Nelson that a barn to shelter the horses was the first thing to build, after the house
for the men, and that I saw no reason why two or even three buildings should not be in process
of construction at the same time. He said there would be no difficulty in managing that if
he could get the men and I could get the money. I promised to do my part, and we went into details.

I wanted a horse barn for ten horses, with shed room for eight wagons in front and a small
stable yard in the rear; also a sunken manure vat, ten feet by twenty, with cement walls and
floor, the vat to be four feet deep, two feet in the ground and two feet above it. A vat like
this has been built near each stable where stock is kept, and I find them perfectly satisfactory.
They save the liquid manure, and thus add fifty per cent to the value of the whole. Open sheds
protect from sun and rain, and they are emptied as often as is necessary, regardless of season,
for I believe that the fields can care for manure better than a compost heap.

I also told Nelson to make plans and estimates for a large forage barn, 75 by 150 feet, 25
feet from floor to rafter plate, with a driving floor through the length of it and mows on
either side. A granary, with a capacity of twenty thousand bushels, a large woodhouse, and
a small house in the centre of this group where the fifteen horse-power engine could be installed,
completed my commissions for that day.

Plans for these structures were submitted in due time, and the work was pushed forward as rapidly
as possible. The horse barn made a comfortable home for ten horses, if we should need so many,
with food and water close at hand and every convenience for the care of the animals and their
harness. The forage barn was not expensive,--it was simply to shelter a large quantity of forage
to be drawn upon when needed. The woodhouse was also inexpensive, though large. Wood was to
be the principal fuel at Four Oaks, since it would cost nothing, and there must be ample shelter
for a large amount. The granary would have to be built well and substantially, but it was not
large. The power-house also was a small affair. The whole cost of these five buildings was
$8550. The itemized amount is, horse barn, $2000, forage barn, $3400, granary, $2200, woodhouse,
$400, power-house, $550.

CHAPTER XII

CARPENTERS QUIT WORK

On Friday, August 30, I was obliged to go to a western city on business that would keep me
from four to ten days. I turned my face away from the farm with regret. I could hardly realize
that I had spent but one month in my new life, the old interests had slipped so far behind.
I was reluctant to lose sight, even for a week, of the intensely interesting things that were
doing at Four Oaks. Polly said she would go to Four Oaks every day, and keep so watchful an
eye on the farm that it could not possibly get away.

"You're getting a little bit maudlin about that farm, Mr. Headman, and it will do you good
to get away for a few days. There are some other things in life, though I admit they are few,
and we are not to forget them. I am up to my ears in plans for the house and the home lot;
but I can't quite see what you find so interesting in tearing down old barns and fences and
turning over old sods."

"Every heart knoweth its own sorrow, Polly, and I have my troubles."

Friday evening, September 6, I returned from the west. My first greeting was,--

"How's the farm, Polly?"

"It's there, or was yesterday; I think you'll find things running smoothly."

"Have they sowed the alfalfa and cut the oats?"

"Yes."

"Finished the farm-house?"

"No, not quite, but the painters are there, and Nelson has commenced work on two other buildings."

"What time can I breakfast? I must catch the 8.10 train, and spend a long day where things
are doing."

Things were humming at Four Oaks when I arrived. Ten carpenters besides Nelson and his son
were pounding, sawing, and making confusion in all sorts of ways peculiar to their kind. The
ploughmen were busy. Thompson and the other two men were shocking oats. I spent the day roaming
around the place, watching the work and building castles. I went to the alfalfa field to see
if the seed had sprouted. Disappointed in this, I wandered down to the brook and planned some
abridgment of its meanderings. It could be straightened and kept within bounds without great
expense if the work were done in a dry season. Polly had asked for a winding brook with a fringe
of willows and dogwood, but I would not make this concession to her esthetic taste. This farm
land must be useful to the sacrifice of everything else. A winding brook would be all right
on the home lot, if it could be found, but not on the farm. A straight ditch for drainage was
all that I would permit, and I begrudged even that. No waste land in the cultivated fields,
was my motto. I had threshed this out with Polly and she had yielded, after stipulating that
I must keep my hands off the home forty.

Over in the woods I found two men at work splitting fence posts. They seemed expert, and I
asked them how many they could make in a day.

"From 90 to 125, according to the timber. But we must work hard to make good wages."

"That applies to other things besides post-splitting, doesn't it?"

Closer inspection of the wood lot gratified me exceedingly. Little had been done for it except
by Nature, but she had worked with so prodigal a hand that it showed all kinds of possibilities,
both for beauty and for utility. Before leaving the place, I had a little talk with Nelson.

"Everything is going on nicely," he said. "I have ten carpenters, and they are a busy lot.
If I can only hold them on to the job, things will go well."

"What's the matter? Can't you hold them?"

"I hope so, but there is a hoisters' strike on in the city, and the carpenters threaten to
go out in sympathy. I hope it won't reach us, but I'm afraid it will."

"What will you do if the men go out?"

"Do the best I can. I can get two non-union men that I know of. They would like to be on this
job now, but these men won't permit it. My son is a full hand, so there will be four of us;
but it will be slow work."

"See here, Nelson, I can't have this work slack up. We haven't time. Cold weather will be on
before we know it. I'm going to take this bull by the horns. I'll advertise for carpenters
in the Sunday papers. Some of those who apply will be non-union men, and I'll hold them over
for a few days until we see how the cat jumps. If it comes to the worst, we can get some men
to take the place of Thompson and Sam, who are carpenters, and set them at the tools. I will
not let this work stop, strike or no strike."

"If you put non-union men on you will have to feed and sleep them on the place. The union will
make it hot for them."

"I will take all kinds of care of every man who gives me honest work, you may be sure."

When I returned to town I sent this "ad." to two papers: "Wanted: Ten good carpenters to go
to the country." The Sunday papers gave a lurid account of the sentiment of the Carpenters'
Union and its sympathetic attitude toward the striking hoisters. The forecast was that there
would not be a nail driven if the strike were not settled by Tuesday night. It seemed that
I had not moved a day too soon. On Monday thirty-seven carpenters applied at my office. Most
of them had union tickets and were not considered. Thirteen, however, were not of the union,
and they were investigated. I hired seven on these conditions: wages to begin the next day,
Tuesday, and to continue through the week, work or no work. If the strike was ordered, I would
take the men to the country and give them steady work until my jobs were finished. They agreed
to these conditions, and were requested to report at my office on Wednesday morning to receive
two days' pay, and perhaps to be set to work.

I did not go to the farm until Tuesday afternoon. There was no change in the strike, and no
reason to expect one. The noon papers said that the Carpenters' Union would declare a sympathetic
strike to be on from Wednesday noon.

On reaching Four Oaks I called Nelson aside and told him how the land lay and what I had done.

"I want you to call the men together," said I, "and let me talk to them. I must know just how
we stand and how they feel."

Nelson called the men, and I read the reports from two papers on the impending strike order.

"Now, men," said I, "we must look this matter in the face in a businesslike fashion. You have
done good work here; your boss is satisfied, and so am I. It would suit us down to the ground
if you would continue on until all these jobs are finished. We can give you a lot of work for
the best part of the year. You are sure of work and sure of pay if you stay with us. That is
all I have to say until you have decided for yourselves what you will do if the strike is ordered."

I left the men for a short time, while they talked things over. It did not take them long to
decide.

"We must stand by the union," said the spokesman, "but we'll be damned sorry to quit this job.
You see, sir, we can't do any other way. We have to be in the union to get work, and we have
to do as the union says or we will be kicked out. It is hard, sir, not to do a hit of a hammer
for weeks or months with a family on one's hands and winter coming; but what can a man do?
We don't see our way clear in this matter, but we must do as the union says."

"I see how you are fixed," said I, "and I am mighty sorry for you. I am not going to rail against
unions, for they may have done some good; but they work a serious wrong to the man with a family,
for he cannot follow them without bringing hardships upon his dependent ones. It is not fair
to yoke him up with a single man who has no natural claims to satisfy, no mouth to feed except
his own; but I will talk business.

"You will be ordered out to-morrow or next day, and you say you will obey the order. You have
an undoubted right to do so. A man is not a slave, to be made to work against his will; but,
on the other hand, is he not a slave if he is forced to quit against his will? Freedom of action
in personal matters is a right which wise men have fought for and for which wise men will always
fight. Do you find it in the union? What shall I do when you quit work? How long are you going
to stay out? What will become of my interests while you are following the lead of your bell-wethers?
Shall my work stop because you have been called out for a holiday? Shall the weeds grow over
these walls and my lumber rot while you sit idly by? Not by a long sight! You have a perfect
right to quit work, and I have a perfect right to continue.

"The rights which we claim for ourselves we must grant to others. One man certainly has as
defensible a right to work as another man has to be idle. In the legitimate exercise of personal
freedom there is no effort at coercion, and in this case there shall be none. If you choose
to quit, you will do so without let or hindrance from me; but if you quit, others will take
your places without let or hindrance from you. You will be paid in full to-night. When you
leave, you must take your tools with you, that there may be no excuse for coming back. When
you leave the place, the incident will be closed so far as you and I are concerned, and it
will not be opened unless I find some of you trying to interfere with the men I shall engage
to take your places. I think you make a serious mistake in following blind leaders who are
doing you material injury, for sentimental reasons; but you must decide this for yourselves.
If, after sober thought, any of you feel disposed to return, you can get a job if there is
a vacancy; but no man who works for me during this strike will be displaced by a striker. You
may put that in your pipes and smoke it. Nelson will pay you off to-night."

The strike was ordered for Wednesday. On the morning of that day the seven carpenters whom
I had engaged arrived at my office ready for work. I took them to the station and started for
Four Oaks. At a station five miles from Exeter we quitted the train, hired two carriages, and
were driven to the farm without passing through the village.

We arrived without incident, the men had their dinners, and at one o'clock the hammers and
saws were busy again. We had lost but one half day. The two non-union men whom Nelson had spoken
of were also at work, and three days later the spokesman of the strikers threw up his card
and joined our force. We had no serious trouble. It was thought wise to keep the new men on
the place until the excitement had passed, and we had to warn some of the old ones off two
or three times, but nothing disagreeable happened, and from that day to this Four Oaks has
remained non-unionized.

CHAPTER XIII

PLANNING FOR THE TREES

The morning of September 17th a small frost fell,--just enough to curl the leaves of the corn
and show that it was time for it to be laid by. Thompson, Johnson, Anderson, and the two men
from the woods, who were diverted from their post-splitting for the time being, went gayly
to the corn fields and attacked the standing grain in the old-fashioned way. This was not economical;
but I had no corn reaper, and there was none to hire, for the frost had struck us all at the
same time. The five men were kept busy until the two patches--about forty-three acres--were
in shock. This brought us to the 24th. In the meantime the men and women moved from the cottage
to the more commodious farm-house. Polly had found excuses for spending $100 more on the furnishings
of this house,--two beds and a lot of other things. Sunday gave the people a chance to arrange
their affairs; and they certainly appreciated their improved surroundings.

The cottage was moved to its place on the line, and the last of the seeding on the north forty
was done. Ten tons of fertilizer were sown on this forty-acre tract (at a cost of $250), and
it was then left to itself, not to be trampled over by man or beast, except for the stretching
of fences or for work around some necessary buildings, until the middle of the following May.

We did not sow any wheat that year,--there was too much else to be done of more importance.
There is not much money in wheat-farming unless it be done on a large scale, and I had no wish
to raise more than I could feed to advantage. Wheat was to be a change food for my fowls; but
just then I had no fowls to feed, and there were more than two hundred bushels in stacks ready
for the threshers, which I could hold for future hens.

The ploughmen were now directed to commence deep ploughing on No. 14,--the forty acres set
apart for the commercial orchard. This tract of land lay well for the purpose. Its surface
was nearly smooth, with a descent to the west and southwest that gave natural drainage. I have
been informed that an orchard would do better if the slope were to the northeast. That may
be true, but mine has done well enough thus far, and, what is more to the point, I had no land
with a northeast slope. The surface soil was thin and somewhat impoverished, but the subsoil
was a friable clay in which almost anything would grow if it was properly worked and fed. It
was my desire to make this square block of forty acres into a first-class apple orchard for
profit. Seven years from planting is almost too soon to decide how well I have succeeded, but
the results attained and the promises for the future lead me to believe that there will be
no failure in my plan.

The three essentials for beginning such an orchard are: prepare the land properly, get good
stock (healthy and true to name), and plant it well. I could do no more this year than to plough
deep, smooth the surface, and plant as well as I knew how. Increased fertility must come from
future cultivation and top dressing. The thing most prominent in my plan was to get good trees
well placed in the ground before cold weather set in. At my time of life I could not afford
to wait for another autumn, or even until spring. I had, and still have, the opinion that a
fall-planted tree is nearly six months in advance of one planted the following spring. Of course
there can be no above-ground growth during that time, but important things are being done below
the surface. The roots find time to heal their wounds and to send out small searchers after
food, which will be ready for energetic work as soon as the sun begins to warm the soil. The
earth settles comfortably about these roots and is moulded to fit them by the autumn rains.
If the stem is well braced by a mound of earth, and if a thick mulch is placed around it, much
will be done below ground before deep frosts interrupt the work; and if, in the early spring,
the mulch and mound are drawn back, the sun's influence will set the roots at work earlier
by far than a spring tree could be planted.

Other reasons for fall planting are that the weather is more settled, the ground is more manageable,
help is more easily secured, and the nurserymen have more time for filling your order. Any
time from October 15 until December 10 will answer in our climate, but early November is the
best. I had decided to plant the trees in this orchard twenty-five feet apart each way. In
the forty acres there would be fifty-two rows, with fifty-two trees in each row,--or twenty-seven
hundred in all. I also decided to have but four varieties of apples in this orchard, and it
was important that they should possess a number of virtues. They must come into early bearing,
for I was too old to wait patiently for slow-growing trees; they must be of kinds most dependable
for yearly crops, for I had no respect for off years; and they must be good enough in color,
shape, and quality to tempt the most fastidious market. I studied catalogues and talked with
pomologists until my mind was nearly unsettled, and finally decided upon Jonathan, Wealthy,
Rome Beauty, and Northwestern Greening,--all winter apples, and all red but the last. I was
helped in my decision, so far as the Jonathans and Rome Beauties were concerned, by the discovery
that more than half of the old orchard was composed of these varieties.

There is little question as to the wisdom of planting trees of kinds known to have done well
in your neighborhood. They are just as likely to do well by you as by your neighbor. If the
fruit be to your liking, you can safely plant, for it is no longer an experiment; some one
else has broken that ground for you.

In casting about for a reliable nurseryman to whom to trust the very important business of
supplying me with young trees, I could not long keep my attention diverted from Rochester,
New York. Perhaps the reason was that as a child I had frequently ridden over the plank road
from Henrietta to Rochester, and my memory recalled distinctly but three objects on that road,--the
house of Frederick Douglass, Mount Hope Cemetery, and a nursery of young trees. Everything
else was obscure. I fancy that in fifty years the Douglass house has disappeared, but Mount
Hope Cemetery and the tree nursery seem to mock at time. The soil and climate near Rochester
are especially favorable to the growing of young trees, and my order went to one of the many
reliable firms engaged in this business. The order was for thirty-four hundred trees,--twenty-seven
hundred for the forty-acre orchard and seven hundred for the ten acres farthest to the south
on the home lot. Polly had consented to this invasion of her domain, for reasons. She said:--

"It is a long way off, rather flat and uninteresting, and I do not see exactly how to treat
it. Apple trees are pretty at most times, and picturesque when old. You can put them there,
if you will seed the ground and treat it as part of the lawn. I hate your old straight rows,
but I suppose you must have them."

"Yes, I guess I shall have to have straight rows, but I will agree to the lawn plan after the
third year. You must give me a chance to cultivate the land for three years."

Your tree-man must be absolutely reliable. You have to trust him much and long. Not only do
you depend upon him to send you good and healthy stock, but you must trust, for five years
at least, that this stock will prove true to name. The most discouraging thing which can befall
a horticulturist is to find his new fruit false to purchase labels. After wait, worry, and
work he finds that he has not what he expected, and that he must begin over again. It is cold
comfort for the tree-man to make good his guarantee to replace all stock found untrue, for
five years of irreplaceable time has passed. When you have spent time, hope, and expectation
as well as money, looking for results which do not come, your disappointment is out of all
proportion to your financial loss, be that never so great. In the best-managed nurseries there
will be mistakes, but the better the management the fewer the mistakes. Pay good prices for
young trees, and demand the best. There is no economy in cheap stock, and the sooner the farmer
or fruit-grower comprehends this fact, the better it will be for him. I ordered trees of three
years' growth from the bud,--this would mean four-year-old roots. Perhaps it would have been
as well to buy smaller ones (many wise people have told me so), but I was in such a hurry!
I wanted to pick apples from these trees at the first possible moment. I argued that a sturdy
three-year-old would have an advantage over its neighbor that was only two. However small this
advantage, I wanted it in my business--my business being to make a profitable farm in quick
time. The ten acres of the home lot were to be planted with three hundred Yellow Transparent,
three hundred Duchess of Oldenburg, and one hundred mixed varieties for home use. I selected
the Transparent and the Duchess on account of their disposition to bear early, and because
they are good sellers in a near market, and because a fruit-wise friend was making money from
an eight-year-old orchard of three thousand of these trees, and advised me not to neglect them.

My order called for thirty-four hundred three-year-old apple trees of the highest grade, to
be delivered in good condition on the platform at Exeter for the lump sum of $550. The agreement
had been made in August, and the trees were to be delivered as near the 20th of October as
practicable. Apple trees comprised my entire planting for the autumn of 1895. I wanted to do
much other work in that line, but it had to be left for a more convenient season. Hundreds
of fruit trees, shade trees, and shrubs have since been planted at Four Oaks, but this first
setting of thirty-four hundred apple trees was the most important as well as the most urgent.

The orchard was to be a prominent feature in the factory I was building, and as it would be
slower in coming to perfection than any other part, it was wise to start it betimes. I have
kicked myself black and blue for neglecting to plant an orchard ten years earlier. If I had
done this, and had spent two hours a month in the management of it, it would now be a thing
of beauty and an income-producing joy forever,--or, at least, as long as my great-grandchildren
will need it.

There is no danger of overdoing orcharding. The demand for fruit increases faster than the
supply, and it is only poor quality or bad handling that causes a slack market. If the general
farmer will become an expert orchardist, he will find that year by year his ten acres of fruit
will give him a larger profit than any forty acres of grain land; but to get this result he
must be faithful to his trees. Much of the time they are caring for themselves, and for the
owner, too; but there are times when they require sharp attention, and if they do not get it
promptly and in the right way, they and the owner will suffer. Fruit growing as a sole occupation
requires favorable soil, climate, and market, and also a considerable degree of aptitude on
the part of the manager, to make it highly profitable. A fruit-grower in our climate must have
other interests if he would make the most of his time. While waiting for his fruit he can raise
food for hens and hogs; and if he feeds hens and hogs, he should keep as many cows as he can.
He will then use in his own factory all the raw material he can raise. This will again be returned
to the land as a by-product, which will not only maintain the fertility of the farm, but even
increase it. If his cows are of the best, they will yield butter enough to pay for their food
and to give a profit; the skim milk, fed to the hogs and hens, will give eggs and pork out
of all proportion to its cost; and everything that grows upon his land can thus be turned off
as a finished product for a liberal price, and yet the land will not be depleted. The orchard
is better for the hens and hogs and cows, and they are better for the orchard. These industries
fit into each other like the folding of hands; they seem mutually dependent, and yet they are
often divorced, or, at best, only loosely related. This view may seem to be the result of post
hoc reasoning, but I think it is not. I believe I imbibed these notions with my mother's milk,
for I can remember no time when they were not mine. The psalmist said, "Comfort me with apples";
and the psalmist was reputed a wise man. With only sufficient wisdom to plant an orchard, I
live in high expectation of finding the same comfort in my old age.

CHAPTER XIV

PLANTING OF THE TREES

September proved as dry as August was wet,--only half an inch of water fell; and the seedings
would have been slow to start had they depended for their moisture upon the clouds. By October
1, however, green had taken the place of brown on nearly all the sixty acres we had tilled.
The threshers came and threshed the wheat and oats. Of wheat there were 311 bushels, of oats,
1272. We stored this grain in the cottage until the granary should be ready, and stacked the
straw until the forage barn could receive it. My plan from the first has been to shelter all
forage, even the meanest, and bright oat straw is not low in the scale.

On the 10th the horse stable was far enough advanced to permit the horses to be moved, and
the old barn was deserted. A neighbor who had bought this barn at once pulled it down and carted
it away. In this transaction I held out several days for $50, but as my neighbor was obdurate
I finally accepted his offer. The first entry on the credit side of my farm ledger is, By one
old barn, $45. The receipts for October, November, and December, were:--

By one old barn      $45.00

By apples on trees (153 trees at $1.85 each)      283.00

By 480 bushels of potatoes at 30 cents per bushel      144.00

By five old sows, not fat      35.00

One cow      15.00

Three cows      70.00

Two cows      35.00

Three cows, two heifers, nine calves      187.00

Forty-three shoats and gilts, average 162 lb., at 2 cents per lb      139.00

Total      $953.00

The young hogs had eaten most of my small potatoes and some of my corn before we parted with
them in late November. These sales were made at the farm, and at low prices, for I was afraid
to send such stuff to market lest some one should find out whence it came. The Four Oaks brand
was to stand for perfection in the future, and I was not willing to handicap it in the least.
Top prices for gilt-edged produce is what intensive farming means; and if there is money in
land, it will be found close to this line.

The potatoes had been dug and sold, or stored in the cellar of the farm-house; the apples from
the trees reserved for home use had been gathered, and we were ready for the fall planting.
While waiting for the stock to arrive, we had time to get in all the hay and most of the straw
into the forage barn, which was now under roof.

On Saturday, the 26th, word came that sixteen immense boxes had arrived at Exeter for us. Three
teams were sent at once, and each team brought home two boxes. Three trips were made, and the
entire prospective orchard was safely landed. Monday saw our whole force at work planting trees.
Small stakes had been driven to give the exact centre for each hole, so that the trees, viewed
from any direction, would be in straight lines. Sam, Zeb, and Judson were to dig the holes,
putting the surface dirt to the right, and the poor earth to the left; I was to prune the roots
and keep tab on the labels; Johnson and Anderson were to set the trees,--Anderson using a shovel
and Johnson his hands, feet, and eyes; while Thompson was to puddle and distribute the trees.
The puddling was easily done. We sawed an oil barrel in halves, placed these halves on a stone
boat, filled them two-thirds full of water, and added a lot of fine clay. Into this thin mud
the roots of each tree were dipped before planting.

My duty was to shorten the roots that were too long, and to cut away the bruised and broken
ones. The top pruning was to be done after the trees were all set and banked. The stock was
fine in every respect,--fully up to promise. Watching Johnson set his first tree convinced
me that he knew more about planting than I did. He lined and levelled it; he pawed surface
dirt into the hole, and churned the roots up and down; more dirt, and he tamped it; still more
dirt, and he tramped it; yet more dirt, and he stamped it until the tree stood like a post;
then loose dirt, and he left it. I was sure Johnson knew his business too well to need advice
from a tenderfoot, so I went back to my root pruning.

We were ten days planting these thirty-four hundred trees, but we did it well, and the days
were short. We finished on the 7th of November. The trees were now to be top pruned. I told
Johnson to cut every tree in the big orchard back to a three-foot stub, unless there was very
good reason for leaving a few inches (never more than six), and I turned my back on him and
walked away as I said these cruel words. It seemed a shame to cut these bushy, long-legged,
handsome fellows back to dwarfish insignificance and brutish ugliness, but it had to be done.
I wanted stocky, thrifty, low-headed business trees, and there was no other way to get them.
The trees in the lower, or ten-acre, orchard, were not treated so severely. Their long legs
were left, and their bushy tops were only moderately curtailed. We would try both high and
low heading.

On the night of November 11 the shredders came and set up their great machine on the floor
of the forage barn, ready to commence work the next morning. There were ten men in the shredding
gang. I furnished six more, and Bill Jackson came with two others to change work with me; that
is, my men were to help him when the machine reached his farm. We worked nineteen men and four
teams three and a half days on the forty-three acres of corn, and as a result, had a tremendous
mow of shredded corn fodder and an immense pile of half-husked ears. For the use of the machine
and the wages of the ten men I paid $105. Poor economy! Before next corn-shredding time I owned
a machine,--smaller indeed, but it did the work as well (though not as quickly), and it cost
me only $215, and was good for ten years.

The weather had favored me thus far. The wet August had put the ground into good condition
for seeding, and the dry September and October had permitted our buildings to be pushed forward,
but now everything was to change. A light rain began on the morning of the 15th (I did not
permit it to interrupt the shredding, which was finished by noon), and by night it had developed
into a steady downpour that continued, with interruptions, for six weeks. November and December
of 1895 gave us rain and snow fall equal to twelve and a half inches of water. Plans at Four
Oaks had to be modified. There was no more use for the ploughs. Nos. 10 and 11, and much of
the home lot were left until spring. I had planned to mulch heavily all the newly set trees,
and for this purpose had bought six carloads of manure (at a cost of $72); but this manure
could not be hauled across the sodden fields, and must needs be piled in a great heap for use
in the spring. The carpenters worked at disadvantage, and the farm men could do little more
than keep themselves and the animals comfortable. They did, however, finish one good job between
showers. They tile-drained the routes for the two roads on the home lot,--the straight one
east and west through the building line, about 1000 feet, and the winding carriage drive to
the site of the main house, about 1850 feet. The tile pipe cost $123. They also set a lot of
fence posts in the soft ground.

Building progressed slowly during the bad weather, but before the end of December the horse
barn, the woodshed, the granary, the forage barn, and the power-house were completed, and most
of the machinery was in place. The machinery consisted of a fifteen horse-power engine, with
shafting running to the forage barn, the granary, and the woodshed. A power-saw was set in
the end of the shed, a grinding mill in the granary, and a fodder-cutter in the forage barn.
The cost of these items was:--

Engine and shafting      $187.00

Saw      24.00

Mill      32.00

Feed-cutter and carrier      76.00

Total      $319.00

I gave the services of my two carpenters, Thompson and Sam, during most of this time to Nelson,
for I had but little work for them, and he was not making much out of his job.

The last few days of 1895 turned clear and cold, and the barometer set "fair." The change chirked
us up, and we ended the year in good spirits.

CHAPTER XV

POLLY'S JUDGMENT HALL

Before closing the books, we should take account of stock, to see what we had purchased with
our money. Imprimis: 320 acres of good land, satisfactory to the eye, well fenced and well
groomed; 3400 apple trees, so well planted as to warrant a profitable future; a water and sewer
system as good as a city could supply; farm buildings well planned and sufficient for the day;
an abundance of food for all stock, and to spare; an intelligent and willing working force;
machinery for more than present necessity; eight excellent horses and their belongings; six
cows, moderately good; two pigs and two score fowls, to be eaten before spring, and a lot of
fun. What price I shall have to put against this last item to make the account balance, I can
tell better when I foot the other side of the ledger.

But first I must add a few items to the debit account. Moving the cottage cost $30. I paid
$134 for grass seed and seed rye. The wage account for six men and two women for five months
was $735. Their food account was $277. Of course the farm furnished milk, cream, butter, vegetables,
some fruit, fresh pork, poultry, and eggs. There were also some small freight bills, which
had not been accounted for, amounting to $31, and $8 had been spent in transportation for the
men. Then the farm must be charged with interest on all money advanced, when I had completed
my additions. The rate was to be five per cent, and the time three months.

On the last day of the year I went to the farm to pay up to date all accounts. I wished to
end the year with a clean score. I did not know what the five months had cost me (I would know
that evening), but I did know that I had had "the time of my life" in the spending, and I would
not whine. I felt a little nervous when I thought of going over the figures with Polly,--she
was such a judicious spender of money. But I knew her criticism would not be severe, for she
was hand-in-glove with me in the project. I tried to find fault with myself for wastefulness,
but some excellent excuse would always crop up. "Your water tower is unnecessary." "Yes, but
it adds to the landscape, and it has its use." "You have put up too much fencing." "True, but
I wanted to feel secure, and the old fences were such nests of weeds and rubbish." "You have
spent too much money on the farm-house." "I think not, for the laborer is worthy of his hire,
and also of all reasonable creature comforts." And thus it went on. I would not acknowledge
myself in the wrong; nor, arguing how I might, could I find aught but good in my labors. I
devoutly hoped to be able to put the matter in the same light when I stood at the bar in Polly's
judgment hall.

The day was clear, cool, and stimulating. A fair fall of snow lay on the ground, clean and
wholesome, as country snow always is. I wished that the house was finished (it was not begun),
and that the family was with me in it. "Another Christmas time will find us here, God willing,
and many a one thereafter."

I spent three hours at the farm, doing a little business and a lot of mooning, and then returned
to town. The children were off directly after dinner, intent on holiday festivities, so that
Polly and I had the house to ourselves. I felt that we needed it. I invited my partner into
the den, lighted a pipe for consolation, unlocked the drawer in which the farm ledger is kept,
gave a small deprecatory cough, and said:--

"My dear, I am afraid I have spent an awful lot of money in the last five months. You see there
is such a quantity of things to do at once, and they run into no end of money. You know, I--"

"Of course I know it, and I know that you have got the worth of it, too."

Wouldn't that console you! How was I to know that Polly would hail from that quarter? I would
have kissed her hand, if she would have permitted such liberty; I kissed her lips, and was
ready to defend any sum total which the ledger dare show.

"Do you know how much it is?" said Polly.

"Not within a million!" I was reckless then, and hoped the total would be great, for had not
Polly said that she knew I had got the worth of my money? And who was to gainsay her? "It is
more than I planned for, I know, but I do not see how I could use less without losing precious
time. We started into this thing with the theory that the more we put into it, without waste,
the more we would ultimately get out of it. Our theory is just as sound to-day as it was five
months ago."

"We will win out all right in the end, Mr. Headman, for we will not put the price-mark on health,
freedom, happiness, or fun, until we have seen the debit side of the ledger."

"How much do you want to spend for the house?" said I.

"Do you mean the house alone?"

"No; the house and carriage barn. I'll pay for the trees, shrubs, and kickshaws in the gardens
and lawns."

"You started out with a plan for a $10,000 house, didn't you? Well, I don't think that's enough.
You ought to give me $15,000 for the house and barn and let me see what I can do with it; and
you ought to give it to me right away, so that you cannot spend it for pigs and foolish farm
things."

"I'll do it within ten days, Polly; and I won't meddle in your affairs if you will agree to
keep within the limit."

"It's a bargain," said Polly, "and the house will be much more livable than this one. What
do you think we could sell this one for?"

"About $33,000 or $34,000, I think."

"And will you sell it?"

"Of course, if you don't object."

"Sell, to be sure; it would be foolish to keep it, for we'll be country folk in a year."

"I have a theory," said I, "that when we live on the farm we ought to credit the farm with
what it costs us for food and shelter here,--providing, of course, that the farm feeds and
shelters us as well."

"It will do it a great deal better. We will have a better house, better food, more company,
more leisure, more life, and more everything that counts, than we ever had before."

"We'll fix the value of those things when we've had experience," said I. "Now let's get at
the figures. I tell you plainly that I don't know what they foot up,--less than $40,000, I hope."

"Don't let's worry about them, no matter what they say."

This from prudent, provident Polly!

"Certainly not," said I, as bold as a lion.

"There are thirty-five items on the debit side of the ledger and a few little ones on the credit
side. Hold your breath while I add them.

"I have spent $44,331 and have received $953, which leaves a debit balance of $43,378."

"That isn't so awfully bad, when you think of all the fun you've had."

"Fun comes high at this time of the year, doesn't it, Polly?"

"Much depends on what you call high. You have waited and worked a long time for this. I won't
say a word if you spend all you have in the world. It's yours."

"Mine and yours and the children's; but I won't spend it all. Seventy or seventy-five thousand
dollars, besides your house and barn money, shall be my limit. There is still an item of interest
to be added to this account.

"Interest! Why, John Williams, do you mean to tell me that you borrowed this money? I thought
it was your own to do as you liked with. Have you got to pay interest on it?"

"It was mine, but I loaned it to the farm. Before I made this loan I was getting five per cent
on the money. I must now look to the farm for my five per cent. If it cannot pay this interest
promptly, I shall add the deferred payment to the principal, and it shall bear interest. This
must be done each year until the net income from the farm is greater than the interest account.
Whatever is over will then be used to reduce the principal."

"That's a long speech, but I don't think it's very clear. I don't see why a man should pay
interest on his own money. The farm is yours, isn't it? You bought it with your own money,
didn't you? What difference does it make whether you charge interest or not?"

"Not the least difference in the world to us, Polly, but a great deal to the experiment."

"Oh, yes, I forgot the experiment. And how much interest do you add?"

"Five hundred and forty-two dollars. Also, $75 to the lawyer and $5 for recording the deed,
making the whole debt of the farm to me $44,000 even."

"Does it come out just even $44,000? I believe you've manipulated the figures."

"Not on your life! Add them yourself. They were put down at all sorts of times during the past
five months. My dear, I wish you a good-night and a happy New Year. You have given me a very
happy ending for the old one."

CHAPTER XVI

WINTER WORK

The new year opened full of all sorts of interests and new projects. There were so many things
to plan for and to commence at the farm that we often got a good deal mixed up. I can hardly
expect to make a connected narrative of the various plans and events, so will follow each one
far enough to launch it and then leave it for future development.

Little snow fell in January and February '96. The weather was average winter weather, and a
good deal of outdoor work was done. On the 2d I went to the farm to plan with Thompson an outline
for the two months. I had decided to make Thompson the foreman, for I had watched him carefully
for five months and was satisfied that I might go farther and fare a great deal worse. Indeed,
I thought myself very fortunate to have found such a dependable man. He was temperate and good-natured,
and he had a bluff, hearty way with the other men that made it easy for them to accept his
directions. He was thorough, too, in his work. He knew how a job should be done, and he was
not satisfied until it was finished correctly. He was not a worker for work's sake, as was
Anderson, but he was willing to put his shoulder to the wheel for results.

"Wait till I get my shoulder under it," was a favorite expression with him, and I am frank
to say that when this conjunction took place there was apt to be something doing. Thompson
is still at Four Oaks, and it will be a bad day for the farm when he leaves.

"Thompson," said I, "you are to be working foreman out here, and I want you to put your mind
on the business and keep it there. I cannot raise your wages, for I have a system; but you
shall have $50 as a Christmas present if things go well. Will you stay on these terms?"

"I will stay, all right, Dr. Williams, and I will give the best I've got. I like the looks
of this place, and I want to see how you are going to work it out."

That being settled, I told Thompson of some things that must be done during January and February.

"You must get out a great lot of wood, have it sawed, and store it in the shed, more than enough
for a year's use. The wood should be taken from that which is already down. Don't cut any standing
trees, even though they are dead. Use all limbs that are large enough, but pile the brushwood
where it can be burned. We must do wise forestry in these woods, and we will have an unlimited
supply of fuel. I mean that the wood lot shall grow better rather than worse as the years go
by. We cannot do much for it now, but more in time. You must see to it that the men are not
careless about young trees,--no breaking or knocking down will be in order. Another thing to
look after is the ice supply. I will get Nelson to build an ice-house directly, and you must
look around for the ice. Have you any idea as to where it can be had?"

"A big company is getting ice on Round Lake three miles west, and I suppose they will sell
you what you want," said Thompson, "and our teams can haul it all right."

"What do you suppose they will charge per ton on their platform?"

"From twenty-five to forty cents, I reckon."

"All right, make as good a bargain as you can, and attend to it at the best time. When the
teams are not hauling ice or wood, let them draw gravel from French's pit. It will be hard
to get it out in the winter, but I guess it can be done, and we will need a lot of it on these
roads. Have it dumped at convenient places, and we will put it on the drives in the spring.

"Another thing,--we must have a bridge across the brook on each lane. You will find timbers
and planks enough in the piles from the old barns to make good bridges, and the men can do
the work. Then there is all that wire for the inside fences to stretch and staple; but mind,
no barbed wire is to be put on top of inside fences.

"These five jobs will keep you busy for the next two months, for there'll be only four men
besides yourself to do them. I am going to set Sam at the chicken plant. I'll see you before
long, and we'll go over the cow and hog plans; but you have your work cut out for the next
two months. By the way, how much of an ice-house shall I need?"

"How many cows are you going to milk?"

"About forty when we run at full speed; perhaps half that number this year."

"Well, then you'd better build a house for four hundred tons. That won't be too big when you
are on full time, and it's a mighty bad thing to run short of ice."

I saw Nelson the same day and contracted with him for an ice-house capable of holding four
hundred tons, for $900. The walls of the house to be of three thicknesses of lumber with two
air spaces (one four inches, the other two) without filling. As a result of the conference
with Thompson, I had, before the first of March, a wood-house full of wood, which seemed a
supply for two years at full steam; an ice-house nearly full of ice; two serviceable bridges
across the brook; the wire fencing almost completed; and eighty loads of gravel,--about one-third
of what I needed. The whole cash outlay was,--

300 tons of ice at 30 cents per ton        $90.00
80 tons of gravel at 25 cents per load      20.00
Fence staples                               19.00
                                           ------
              Total                       $129.00

The conference with Sam Jones, the hen man, was deferred until my next visit, and my plans
for the cow barn, dairy-house, and hog-house were left to Nelson for consideration, he promising
to give me estimates within a few days.

CHAPTER XVII

WHAT SHALL WE ASK OF THE HEN?

Sam Jones, the chicken-loving man, was as pleased as a boy with a new top when I began to talk
of a hen plant. He had a lot of practical knowledge of the business, for he had failed in it
twice; and I could furnish any amount of theory, and enough money to prevent disaster.

In his previous attempts he had invested nearly all his small capital in a plant that might
yield two hundred eggs a day; he had to buy all foods in small quantities, and therefore at
high prices; and he had to give his whole time to a business which was too small and too much
on the hand-to-mouth order to give him a living profit. My theory of the business was entirely
different. I could plan for results, and, what was more to the point, I could wait for them.
Mistakes, accidents, even disasters, were disarmed by a bank account; my bread and butter did
not depend upon the temper of a whimsical hen. The food would cost the minimum. All grains
and green food, and most of the animal food, in the form of skim milk, would be furnished by
the farm. I meant also to develop a plant large enough to warrant the full attention of an
able-bodied man. I felt no hesitation about this venture, for I did not intend to ask more
of my hens than a well-disposed hen ought to be willing to grant.

I do not ask a hen to lay a double-yolk every day in the year. That is too much to expect of
a creature in whom the mother instinct is prominent, and who wishes also to have a new dress
for herself at least once in that time. I do not wish a hen to work overtime for me. If she
will furnish me with eight dozen of her finished product per annum, I will do the rest. Whatever
she does more than that shall redound to her credit. Two-hundred-eggs-a-year hens are scarcer
than hens with teeth, and I was not looking for the unusual. A hen can easily lay one hundred
eggs in three hundred and sixty-five days, and yet find time for domestic and social affairs.
She can feel that she is not a subject for charity, while at the same time she retains her
self-respect as a hen of leisure.

I have the highest regard for this domestic fowl, and I would not for a great deal impose a
too arduous task upon her. I feel like encouraging her in her peculiar industry, for which
she is so eminently fitted, but not like forcing her into strenuous efforts that would rob
her of vivacity and dull her social and domestic impulses. No; if the hen will politely present
me with one hundred eggs a year, I will thank her and ask no more. Some one will say: "How
can you make hens pay if they don't lay more than eight dozen eggs a year? Eggs sometimes sell
as low as twelve cents per dozen."

Four Oaks hens never have laid one-cent eggs, and never will. They would quit work if such
a price were suggested. Ninety per cent of the eggs from Four Oaks have sold for thirty cents
or more per dozen, and the demand is greater than the supply. The Four Oaks certificate that
the egg is not thirty-six hours old when it reaches the egg cup, makes two and a half cents
look small to those who can afford to pay for the best. To lack confidence in the egg is a
serious matter at the breakfast table, and a person who can insure perfect trust will not lack
patronage. If, therefore, a hen will lay eight dozen eggs, she is welcome to say to an acquaintance:
"I have just handed the Headman a two-dollar bill," for she knows that I have not paid fifty
cents for her food.

Of course the wages of the hen man and his food and the interest on the plant must be counted,
but I do not propose to count them twice. Four Oaks is a factory where several things are made,
each in a measure dependent on, and useful to, the others, and we cannot itemize costs of single
products because of this mutual dependence. I feel certain that I could not drop one of the
factory's industries without loss to each of the others. For this reason I kept a very simple
set of books. I charged the farm with all money spent for it, and credited it with all moneys
received. Even now I have no very definite knowledge of what it costs to keep a hen, a hog,
or a cow; nor do I care. Such data are greatly influenced by location, method of getting supplies,
and market fluctuations. I furnish most of my food, and my own market. My crops have never
entirely failed, and I take little heed whether they be large or small. They are not for sale
as crops, but as finished products. I am not willing to sell them at any price, for I want
them consumed on the place for the sake of the land.

Corn has sold for eighty cents a bushel since I began this experiment, yet at that time I fed
as much as ever and was not tempted to sell a bushel, though I could easily have spared five
thousand. When it went down to twenty-eight cents, I did not care, for corn and oats to me
are simply in transition state,--not commodities to be bought or sold. They cost me, one year
with another, about the same. An abundant harvest fills my granaries to overflowing; a bad
harvest doesn't deplete them, for I do not sell my surplus for fear that I, too, may have to
buy out of a high market. I have bought corn and oats a few times, but only when the price
was decidedly below my idea of the feeding value of these grains. I can find more than twenty-eight
cents in a bushel of corn, and more than eighteen cents in thirty-two pounds of oats. But I
am away off my subject. I began to talk about the hen plant, and have wandered to my favorite
fad,--the factory farm.

CHAPTER XVIII

WHITE WYANDOTTES

"Sam," said I, "I am going to start this poultry plant from just as near the beginning of things
as possible. I want you to dispose of every hen on the place within the next twenty days, and
to burn everything that has been used in connection with them. We've cleared this land of disease
germs, if there were germs in it, by turning it bottom-side up; now let's start free from the
pestiferous vermin that make a hen's life unhappy. No stock, either old or young, shall be
brought here. When we want to change our breeding, we'll buy eggs from the best fanciers and
hatch them in our own incubators. It will then be our own fault if we don't keep our chickens
comfortable and free from their enemies. This is sound theory, and we'll try how it works out
in practice. Certainly it will be easier to keep clean if we start clean. Not one board or
piece of lumber that has been used for any other purpose shall find place in my hen-houses.
Eternal vigilance makes a full egg basket; and a full egg basket means a lot of money at the
year's end. I will never find fault with you for being too careful Attend to the details in
such way as suits you best, provided the result is thorough and everlasting cleanliness. Nothing
less will win out, and nothing less will meet the requirements of our factory rules.

"The first thing to do is to get the incubating cellar made. It ought to be four feet in the
ground and four feet out of it. Make it ten feet by fifteen, inside measure, and you can easily
run five two-hundred-egg incubators. Build it near the south fence in No. 4,--that's the lot
for the hens. The walls are to be of brick, and we'll have a brick floor put in, for it's too
cold to concrete it now. Gables are to point east and west, and each is to have a window; put
the door in the middle of the south wall, and shingle the roof. Digging through three feet
of frost will be hard, but it must be done, and done quickly. I want you to start your incubator
lamps before the 3d of February."

"I can dig the hole without much trouble,--big fire on the ground for two or three hours will
help,--and I can put on the roof and do all the carpenter work, but I can't lay the brick."

"I'll look out for that part of the job, but I want you to see that things are pushed, for
I shall have a thousand eggs here by February 1st and another thousand by the 25th, and these
eggs mean money."

"What do you have to pay for them?"

"Ten cents apiece,--$200 for two thousand eggs."

"Well, I should say! Are they hand-painted? I wouldn't have had to quit business if I could
have sold my eggs at a quarter of that price."

"That's all right, Sam, but you didn't sell White Wyandotte eggs for hatching. I've contracted
with two of the best-known fanciers of Wyandottes in the country to send me five hundred eggs
apiece February 1st and 25th. I don't think the price is high for the stock."

"Have you decided to keep 'dottes? I hoped you would try Leghorns; they're great layers."

"Yes, they're great summer layers, but the American birds will beat them hollow in winter;
and I must have as steady a supply of eggs as possible. My customers don't stop eating eggs
in winter, and they'll be willing to pay more for them at that season. The Leghorn is too small
to make a good broiler, and as half the chicks come cockerels, we must look out for that."

"Why do you throw down the Plymouth Rocks? They're bigger than 'dottes, and just as good layers."

"I threw down the barred Plymouth Rocks on account of color; I like white hens best. It was
hard to decide between White Rocks and Wyandottes, for there's mighty little difference between
them as all-around hens. I really think I chose the 'dottes because the first reply to my letters
was from a man who was breeding them."

"They are 'beauts,' all of them, and I'll give them a good chance to spread themselves," said Sam.

"What percentage of hatch may we expect from purchased eggs?"

"About sixty chicks out of every hundred eggs, I reckon."

"That would be doing pretty well, wouldn't it? If we had good luck with the sixty chicks, how
many would grow up?"

"Fifty ought to."

"Of these fifty, can we count on twenty-five pullets?"

"Yes."

"That's what I was getting at. You think we might, by good luck, raise twenty-five pullets
from each hundred eggs. I'll cut that in the middle and be satisfied with twelve, or even with
ten. At that rate the two thousand eggs that cost $200 will give me two hundred pullets to
begin the egg-making next November. That's not enough; we ought to raise just twice that number.
I'll spend as much more on eggs to be hatched by the middle of April or the first of May, and
then we can reasonably expect to go into next winter with four hundred pullets. They will cost
the farm a dollar apiece, but the farm will have four hundred cockerels to sell at fifty cents
each, which will materially reduce the cost."

"I think you put that pretty low, sir; we ought to raise more than four hundred pullets out
of four thousand eggs."

"Everything more will be clear gain. I shall be satisfied with four hundred. We must also get
at the brooder house. This is the order in which I want the buildings to stand in the chicken
lot: first, the incubating house, 10 feet from the south line; 40 feet north of this, the brooder
house; and 120 feet north of that, the first hen-house, with runs 100 feet deep. We'll build
other houses for the birds as we need them. They are all to face to the south. If the brooder
house is 50 feet long and 15 feet wide, it can easily care for the eight hundred chicks, and
for half as many more, if we are lucky enough to get them.

"We'll have a five-foot walk against the north wall of this house, and a ten-foot space north
and south through the centre for heating plant and food. This will leave a space at each side
ten by twenty feet, to be cut into five pens four feet by ten, each of which will mother a
hundred chicks or more. There must be plenty of glass in the south wall, and we'll use overhead
water pipes in each hover.

"There's no hurry about the poultry-houses. You can build one in the early summer, and perhaps
another in the fall. I expect you to do the carpenter work on these houses. I'll see the mason
at once and have him ready by the time you've dug the hole. The incubators will be here in
good time, and we want everything ready for work as soon as the eggs arrive."

Sam was pleased with his job; it was exactly to his liking. He took real delight in caring
for fowls, and he was especially anxious to prove to me that it was not so much lack of knowledge
as lack of capital that had caused the downfall of his previous efforts. Sam could not then
understand why one man could sell his eggs at thirty-six cents a dozen when his neighbor could
get only sixteen; he found out later.

The mason's work for the incubator house and the foundation wall for the brooder house cost
$290. The lumber bill for these two, including doors and windows, was $464. The five incubators,
$65, and the hot-water heater for the brooder house, $68, made the total $897. Add to this
$400 paid during two months for eggs, and we have $1297 as the cost of starting the poultry plant.

CHAPTER XIX

FRIED PORK

I had given Nelson this sketch as a guide in working out the plan for the cow barn: Length
over all, 130 feet; width, 40 feet. This parallelogram was to be divided lengthwise into three
equal spaces, one in the centre for a driveway, and one on each side for the cow platforms
and feeding mangers. Twenty feet at the west end of the barn was partitioned off, one corner
for a small granary, the other for a kitchen in which the food was to be prepared. These rooms
were each thirteen feet by twenty. At the other end of the building, ten feet on each side
was given over to hospital purposes,--a lying-in ward ten feet by thirteen being on each side
of the driveway.

The foundation for this building was to be of stone, and the entire floor of cement; and the
walls were to be sealed within and sheeted without, and then covered with ship lap boards,
making three thicknesses of boards. It was to be one story high. An east-and-west passage,
cutting the main drive at right angles, divided the barn at its middle. At the south end of
this passage was a door leading to the dairy-house, which was on the building line 150 feet
away. The four spaces made by these passages were each subdivided into ten stalls five feet
wide. Two doors on the north and two on the south gave exit for the cows. I had placed my limit
at forty milch cows, and I thought this stable would furnish suitable quarters for that number.
If I had to rebuild, I would make some modifications. Experience is a good teacher; but the
stable has served its purpose, and I cannot quarrel with the results. The chief defect is in
the distribution of water. The supply is abundant, but it is let on only in the kitchen, whence
it is supplied to the cows by means of a hose or a barrel swung between wheels.

In the kitchen are appliances for mixing and cooking food, and for warming the drinking water
in winter. Nelson and I discussed the sketch plan given below, and he found some fault with
it. I would not be dissuaded from my views, however, and Nelson had to yield. I was as opinionated
in those days as a theoretical amateur is apt to be; and it was hard to give up my theories
at the suggestion of a person who had only experience to guide him. The best plan, as I have
long since learned, is to mix the two and use the solid substance that results from their combination.

We located the site of the building, and talked plans until the low sun of January 8th disappeared
in the west. Then we adjourned to the sitting room of the farm-house to finish the matter so
far as was possible. An hour and a half passed, and we were in fair accord, when Mrs. Thompson
came into the room to say that supper was ready, and to ask us to join the men at table before
starting homeward. I was glad of the opportunity, for I was curious to know if Mrs. Thompson
set a good table. We went into the dining room just as the farm family was ready to sit down.
There were ten of us,--two women, six men, Nelson, and myself; and as we sat down, I noticed
with pleasure that each had evidently taken some thought of the obligations which a table ought
to impose. The table was clothed in clean white, and there was a napkin at each plate. Nelson
and I had the only perfectly fresh ones, and this I took as evidence that napkins were usual.
The food was all on the table, and was very satisfactory to look at. Thompson sat at one end,
and before him, on a great platter, lay two dozen or more pieces of fried salt pork, crisp
in their shells of browned flour, and fit for a king. On one side of the platter was a heaping
dish of steaming potatoes. A knife had been drawn once around each, just to give it a chance
to expand and show mealy white between the gaping circles that covered its bulk. At the other
side was a boat of milk gravy, which had followed the pork into the frying-pan and had come
forth fit company for the boiled potatoes. I went back forty years at one jump, and said,--

"I now renew my youth. Is there anything better under the sun than fried salt pork and milk
gravy? If there is, don't tell me of it, for I have worshipped at this shrine for forty years,
and my faith must not be shaken."

Such a supper twice or thrice a week would warm the cockles of my old heart; but Polly says,
"No modern cook can make these things just right; and if not just right, they are horrid."
That is true; it takes an artist or a mother to fry salt pork and make milk gravy.

There were other things on the table,--quantities of bread and butter, apple sauce (in a dish
that would hold half a peck), stacks of fresh ginger-bread, tea, and great pitchers of milk;
but naught could distract my attention from the pièce de résistance. Thrice I sent my plate
back, and then could do no more. That meal convinced me that I could trust Mrs. Thompson. A
woman who could fry salt pork as my mother did, was a woman to be treasured.

I left the farm-house at 7, and reached home by 8.45. Polly was not quite pleased with my late
hours; she said it did not worry her not to know where I was, but it was annoying.

"Can't you have a telephone put into the farm-house? It would be convenient in a lot of ways."

"Why, of course; I don't see why it can't be done at once. I'll make application this very night."

It was six weeks before we really got a wire to the farm, but after that we wondered how we
ever got along without it.

CHAPTER XX

A RATION FOR PRODUCT

Nelson was to commence work on the cow-house at once; at least, the mason was. I left the job
as a whole to Nelson, and he made some sort of contract with the mason. The agreement was that
I should pay $4260 for the barn complete. The machinery we put into it was very simple,--a
water heater and two cauldrons for cooking food. All three cost about $60.

Thompson had selected six cows, from those bought with the place, as worth wintering. They
were now giving from six to eight quarts each, and were due to come in in April and May. An
eight-quart-a-day cow was not much to my liking, but Thompson said that with good care they
would do better in the spring. "Four of those cows ought to make fine milkers," he said; "they
are built for it,--long bodies, big bags, milk veins that stand out like crooked welts, light
shoulders, slender necks, and lean heads. They are young, too; and if you'll dehorn them, I
believe they'll make your thoroughbreds hump themselves to keep up with them at the milk pail.
You see, these cows never had more than half a chance to show what they could do. They have
never been 'fed for milk.' Farmers don't do that much. They think that if a cow doesn't bawl
for food or drink she has enough. I suppose she has enough to keep her from starving, and perhaps
enough to hold her in fair condition, but not enough to do this and fill the milk pail, too.
I read somewhere about a ration for 'maintenance' and one for 'product,' and there was a deal
of difference. Most farmers don't pay much attention to these things, and I guess that's one
reason why they don't get on faster."

"You've got the whole matter down fine in that 'ration for product,' Thompson, and that's what
we want on this farm. A ration that will simply keep a cow or a hen in good health leaves no
margin for profit. Cows and hens are machines, and we must treat them as such. Crowd in the
raw material, and you may look for large results in finished product. The question ought always
to be, How much can a cow eat and drink? not, How little can she get on with? Grain and forage
are to be turned into milk, and the more of these foods our cows eat, the better we like it.
If these machines work imperfectly, we must get rid of them at once and at any price. It will
not pay to keep a cow that persistently falls below a high standard. We waste time on her,
and the smooth running of the factory is interrupted. I'm going to place a standard on this
farm of nine thousand pounds a year for each matured cow; I don't think that too high. If a
cow falls much below that amount, she must give place to a better one, for I'm not making this
experiment entirely for my health. The standard isn't too high, yet it's enough to give a fine
profit. It means at least three hundred and fifty pounds of butter a year, and in this case
the butter means at least thirty cents a pound, or more than $100 a year for each cow. This
is all profit, if one wishes to figure it by itself, for the skimmed milk will more than pay
for the food and care. But why did you say dehorn the cows?"

"Well, I notice that a man with a club is almost sure to find some use for it. If he isn't
pounding the fence or throwing it at a dog, he's snipping daisies or knocking the heads off
bull-thistles. He's always doing something with it just because he has it in his hand. It's
the same way with a cow. If she has horns, she'll use them in some way, and they take her mind
off her business. No, sir; a cow will do a lot better without horns. There's mighty little
to distract her attention when her clubs are gone."

"What breeds of cows have you handled, Thompson?"

"Not any thoroughbreds that I know of; mostly common kinds and grade Jerseys or Holsteins."

"I'm going to put a small herd of thorough bred Holsteins on the place."

"Why don't you try thoroughbred Jerseys' They'll give as much butter, and they won't eat more
than half as much."

"You don't quite catch my idea, Thompson. I want the cow that will eat the most, if she is,
at the same time, willing to pay for her food. I mean to raise a lot of food, and I want a
home market for it. What comes from the land must go back to it, or it will grow thin. The
Holstein will eat more than the Jersey, and, while she may not make more butter, she will give
twice as much skimmed milk and furnish more fertilizer to return to the land. Fresh skimmed
milk is a food greatly to be prized by the factory-farm man; and when we run at full speed,
we shall have three hundred thousand pounds of it to feed.

"I have purchased twenty three-year-old Holstein cows, in calf to advanced registry bulls,
and they are to be delivered to me March 10. I shall want you to go and fetch them. I also
bought a young bull from the same herd, but not from the same breeding. These twenty-one animals
will cost, by the time they get here, $2200. I shall give the bull to my neighbor Jackson.
He will be proud to have it, and I shall be relieved of the care of it. Be good to your neighbor,
Thompson, if by so doing you can increase the effectiveness of the factory farm. We will start
the dairy with twenty thoroughbreds and six scrubs. I shall probably buy and sell from time
to time; but of one thing I am certain: if a cow cannot make our standard, she goes to the
butcher, be she mongrel or thoroughbred. What do you think of Judson as a probable dairyman?"

"I shouldn't wonder if he would do first-rate. He's a quiet fellow, and cows like that. He
has those roans tagging him all over the place; and if a horse likes a man, it's because he's
nice and quiet in his ways. I notice that he can milk a cow quicker than the other men, and
it ain't because he don't milk dry--I sneaked after him twice. The cow just gives down for
him better than for the others."

CHAPTER XXI

THE RAZORBACK

We have now launched three of the four principal industries of our factory farm. The fourth
is perhaps the most important of all, if a single member of a group of mutually dependent industries
can have this distinction. There is no question that the farmer's best friend is the hog. He
will do more for him and ask less of him than any other animal. All he asks is to be born.
That is enough for this non-ruminant quadruped, who can find his living in the earth, the roadside
ditch, or the forest, and who, out of a supply of grass, roots, or mast, can furnish ham and
bacon to the king's taste and the poor man's maintenance. The half-wild razorback, with never
a clutch of corn to his back, gives abundant food to the mountaineer over whose forest he ranges.
The cropped or slit ear is the only evidence of human care or human ownership. He lives the
life of a wild beast, and in the autumn he dies the death of a wild beast; while his flesh,
made rich with juices of acorns, beechnuts, and other sweet masts, nourishes a man whose only
exercise of ownership is slaughter. The hog that can make his own living, run like a deer,
and drink out of a jug, has done more for the pioneer and the backwoodsman than any other animal.

Take this semi-wild beast away from his wild haunts, give him food and care, and he will double
his gifts. Add a hundred generations of careful selection, until his form is so changed that
it is beyond recognition, and again the product will be doubled. The spirit of swine is not
changed by civilization or good breeding; such as it was on that day when the herd "ran down
a steep place and was drowned in the sea," such it is to-day. A fixed determination to have
its own way dominated the creature then, and a pig-headed desire to be the greatest food-producing
machine in the world is its ruling passion now.

All over the world there is a growing fondness for swine flesh, and the ever increasing supply
doesn't outrun the demand. Since the dispersion of the tribes of Israel there has been no persistent
effort to depopularize this wonderful food maker. Pig has more often been the food of the poor
than of the rich, but now rich and poor alike do it honor. Old Ben Jonson said:--

"Now pig is meat, and a meat that is nourishing and may be desired, and consequently eaten:
it may be eaten; yea, very exceedingly well eaten."

Hundreds have praised the rasher of ham, and thousands the flitch of bacon; it took the stroke
of but one pen to make roast pig classical.

The pig of to-day is so unlike his distant progenitor that he would not be recognized; if by
any chance he were recognized, it would be only with a grunt of scorn for his unwieldy shape
and his unenterprising spirit. Gone are the fleet legs, great head, bulky snout, terrible jaws,
warlike tusks, open nostrils, flapping ears, gaunt flanks, and racing sides; and with these
has gone everything that told of strength, freedom, and wild life. In their place has come
a cuboidal mass, twice as long as it is broad or high, with a place in front for mouth and
eyes, and a foolish-looking leg under each corner. A mighty fall from "freedom's lofty heights,"
but a wonderfully improved machine. The modern hog is to his progenitor as the man with the
steam-hammer to the man with the stone-hammer,--infinitely more useful, though not so free.

It is not easy to overestimate the value of swine to the general farmer; but to the factory
farmer they are indispensable. They furnish a profitable market for much that could not be
sold, and they turn this waste material into a surprising lot of money in a marvellously short
time. A pig should reach his market before he is nine months old. From the time he is new-born
until he is 250 days old, he should gain at least one pound a day, which means five cents,
in ordinary times. During this time he has eaten, of things which might possibly have been
sold, perhaps five dollars' worth. At 250 days, with a gain of one pound a day, he is worth,
one year with another, $12.50. This is putting it too low for my market, but it gives a profit
of not less than $6 a head after paying freight and commissions. It is, then, only a question
of how many to keep and how to keep them. To answer the first half of this question I would
say, Keep just as many as you can keep well. It never pays to keep stock on half rations of
food or care, and pigs are not exceptions. In answering the other half of the question, how
to keep them, I shall have to go into details of the first building of a piggery at Four Oaks.

As in the case of the hens, I determined to start clean. Hogs had been kept on the farm for
years, and, so far as I could learn, there had been no epizoötic disease. The swine had had
free range most of the time, and the specimens which I bought were healthy and as well grown
as could be expected. They were not what I wanted, either in breed or in development, so they
had been disposed of, all but two. These I now consigned to the tender care of the butcher,
and ordered the sty in which they had been kept to be burned.

I had planned to devote lot No. 2 to a piggery. There are five acres in this lot, and I thought
it large enough to keep four or five hundred pigs of all sizes in good health and good condition
for forcing. Some of the swine, not intended for market, would have more liberty; but close
confinement in clean pens and small runs was to be the rule. To crowd hogs in this way, and
at the same time to keep them free from disease, would require special vigilance. The ordinary
diseases that come from damp and draughts could be fended off by carefully constructed buildings.
Cleanliness and wholesome food ought to do much, and isolation should accomplish the rest.
I have established a perfect quarantine about my hog lot, and it has never been broken. After
the first invoices of swine in the winter and spring of 1896, no hog, young or old, has entered
my piggery, save by the way of a sixty-day quarantine in the wood lot, and very few by that way.

My pigs are several hundred yards from the public roads, and my neighbor, Jackson, has planted
a young orchard on his land to the north of my hog lots, and permits no hogs in this planting.
I have thus secured practical isolation. I have rarely sent swine to fairs or stock shows.
In the few instances in which I have broken this rule I have sold the stock shown, never returning
it to Four Oaks.

Isolation, cleanliness, good food, good water, and a constant supply of ashes, charcoal, and
salt, have kept my herd (thus far) from those dreadfully fatal diseases that destroy so many
swine. If I can keep the specific micro-organism that causes hog-cholera off my place, I need
not fear the disease. The same is true of swine plague. These diseases are of bacterial origin,
and are communicated by the transference of bacteria from the infected to the non-infected.
I propose to keep my healthy herd as far removed as possible from all sources of infection.
I have carried these precautions so far that I am often scoffed at. I require my swineherd,
when returning from a fair or a stock show, to take a full bath and to disinfect his clothing
before stepping into the pig-house. This may seem an unnecessary refinement in precautionary
measures, but I do not think so. It has served me well: no case of cholera or plague has shown
itself at Four Oaks.

What would I do if disease should appear? I do not know. I think, however, that I should fight
it as hard as possible at close quarters, killing the seriously ill, and burning all bodies.
After the scourge had passed I would dispose of all stock as best I could, and then burn the
entire plant (fences and all), plough deep, cover the land white as snow with lime, leave it
until spring, plough again, and sow to oats. During the following summer I would rebuild my
plant and start afresh. A whole year would be lost, and some good buildings, but I think it
would pay in the end. There would be no safety for the herd while a single colony of cholera
or plague bacteria was harbored on the place; and while neither might, for years, appear in
virulent form, yet there would be constant small losses and constant anxiety. One cannot afford
either of these annoyances, and it is usually wise to take radical measures. If we apply sound
business rules to farm management, we shall at least deserve success.

I chose to keep thoroughbred swine for the reason that all the standard varieties are reasonably
certain to breed true to a type which, in each breed, is as near pork-making perfection as
the widest experience can make it. Most of our good hogs are bred from English or Chinese stock.
Modifications by climate, care, crossing, and wise selection have procured a number of excellent
varieties, which are distinct enough to warrant separate names, but which are nearly equal
as pork-makers.

In color one could choose between black, black and white, and white and red. I wanted white
swine; not because they are better than swine of other colors, for I do not think they are,
but for æsthetic reasons. My poultry was to be white, and white predominated in my cows; why
should not my swine be white also,--or as white as their habits would permit? I am told on
all sides that the black hog is the hardiest, that it fattens easier, and that for these reasons
it is a better all-round hog. This may be true, but I am content with my white ones. When some
neighbor takes a better bunch of hogs to market, or gets a better price for them, than I do,
I may be persuaded to think as he talks. Thus far I have sold close to the top of the market,
and my hogs are never left over.

Perhaps my hogs eat more than those of my neighbors. I hope they do, for they weigh more, on
a "weight for age" scale, and I do not think they are "air crammed," for "you cannot fatten
capons so." I am more than satisfied with my Chester Whites. They have given me a fine profit
each year, and I should be ungrateful if I did not speak them fair.

I wished to get the hog industry started on a liberal scale, and scoured the country, by letter,
for the necessary animals. I found it difficult to get just what I wanted. Perhaps I wanted
too much. This is what I asked for: A registered young sow due to farrow her second litter
in March or April. By dint of much correspondence and a considerable outlay of money, I finally
secured nineteen animals that answered the requirements. I got them in twos and threes from
scattered sources, and they cost an average price of $31 per head delivered at Four Oaks. A
young boar, bred in the purple, cost $27. My foundation herd of Chester Whites thus cost me
$614,--too much for an economical start; but, again, I was in a hurry.

The hogs began to arrive in February, and were put into temporary quarters pending the building
of the house for the brood sows, which house must now be described.

It was a low building, 150 by 30 feet, divided by a six-foot alley-way into halves, each 150
by 12 feet. Each of these halves was again divided into fifteen pens 10 by 12 feet, with a
10 by 30 run for each pen. This was the general plan for the brood-house for thirty sows. At
the east end of this house was a room 15 by 30 feet for cooking food and storing supplies for
a few days. The building was of wood with plank floors. It stands there yet, and has answered
its purpose; but it was never quite satisfactory. I wanted cement floors and a more sightly
building. I shall probably replace it next year. When it was built the weather was unfavorable
for laying cement, and I did not wish to wait for a more clement season. The house and the
fences for the runs cost $2100.

On the 6th of March Thompson called me to one of the temporary pens and showed me a family
of the prettiest new-born animals in the world,--a fine litter of no less than nine new-farrowed
pigs. I felt that the fourth industry was fairly launched, and that we could now work and wait.

CHAPTER XXII

THE OLD ORCHARD

March was unusually raw even for that uncooked month. The sun had to cross the line before
it could make much impression on the deep frost. After the 15th, however, we began to find
evidences that things were stirring below ground. The red and yellow willows took on brighter
colors, the bark of the dogwood assumed a higher tone, and the catkins and lilac buds began
to swell with the pride of new sap.

If our old orchard was to be pruned while dormant, it must be done at once. Thompson and I
spent five days of hard work among the trees, cutting out all dead limbs, crossing branches,
and suckers. We called the orchard old, but it was so only by comparison, for it was not out
of its teens; and I did not wish to deal harshly with it. A good many unusual things were being
done for it in a short time, and it was not wise to carry any one of them too far. It had been
fertilized and ploughed in the fall, and now it was to be pruned and sprayed,--all innovations.
The trees were well grown and thrifty. They had given a fair crop of fruit last year, and they
were well worth considerable attention. They could not hereafter be cultivated, for they were
all in the soiling lot for the cows, but they could be pruned and sprayed. The lack of cultivation
would be compensated by the fertilization incident to a feeding lot. The trees would give shade
and comfort to the cows, while the cows fed and nourished the trees,--a fair exchange.

The crop of the year before, though half the apples were stung, had brought nearly $300. With
better care, and consequently better fruit, we could count on still better results, for the
varieties were excellent (Baldwins, Jonathans, and Rome Beauties); so we trimmed carefully
and burned the rubbish. This precaution, especially in the case of dead limbs, is important,
for most dead wood in young trees is due to disease, often infectious, and should be burned
at once.

I bought a spraying-pump (for $13), which was fitted to a sound oil barrel, and we were ready
to make the first attack on fungus disease with the Bordeaux mixture. This was done by Johnson
and Anderson late in the month. Another vigorous spraying with the same mixture when the buds
were swelling, another when the flower petals were falling, and still another when the fruit
was as large as peas (the last two sprayings had Paris green added to the Bordeaux mixture),
and the fight against apple enemies was ended for that year.

Thompson had gone for the cows. He left March 9, and returned with the beauties on Friday the
17th. They were all my fancy had painted them,--large, gentle-eyed, with black and white hair
over soft butter-yellow skin, and all the points that distinguish these marvellous milk-machines.
They were bestowed as needs must until the cow barn was completed. One of them had dropped
a bull calf two days before leaving the home farm. The calf had been left, and the mother was
in an uncomfortable condition, with a greatly distended udder and milk streaming from her four
teats, though Thompson had relieved her thrice while en route.

I was greatly pleased with the cows, but must not spend time on them now, for things are happening
in my factory faster than I can tell of them. Johnson had built some primitive hotbeds for
early vegetables out of old lumber and oiled muslin. He had filled them with refuse from the
horse stable and had sown his seeds.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE FIRST HATCH

On February 3 the incubator lamps were lighted under the first invoice of one thousand eggs.
The incubating cellar was to Sam's liking, and he felt confident that three weeks of strict
attention to temperature, moisture, and the turning of eggs, would bring results beyond my
expectations.

After the seventh day, on which he had tested or candled the eggs, he was willing to promise
almost anything in the way of a hatch, up to seventy-five or eighty per cent. In the intervals
of attendance on the incubators he was hard at work on the brooder-house, which must be ready
for its first occupants by the 25th. Everything went smoothly until the 18th. That morning
Sam met me with a long face.

"Something went wrong with one of my lamps last night," said he. "I looked at them at ten o'clock
and they were all right, but at six this morning one of the thermometers was registering 122°,
and the whole batch was cooked."

"Not the whole thousand, Sam!"

"No, but 170 fertile eggs, and that spoils a twenty-dollar bill and a lot of good time. What
in the name of the black man ever got into that lamp of mine is more than I know. It's just
my luck!"

"It's everybody's luck who tries to raise chickens by wholesale, and we must copper it. Don't
be downed by the first accident, Sam; keep fighting and you'll win out."

The brooder-house was ready when the first chicks picked the shells on the 24th, and within
thirty-six hours we had 503 little white balls of fluff to transfer from the four incubators
to the brooder-house. We put about a hundred together in each of five brooders, fed them cut
oats and wheat with a little coarse corn meal and all the fresh milk they could drink, and
they throve mightily.

The incubators were filled again on the 26th, and from that hatch we got 552 chicks. On the
21st of March they were again filled, and on the 13th of April we had 477 more to add to the
colony in the brooder-house. For the last time we started the lamps April 15th, and on the
6th of May we closed the incubating cellar and found that 2109 chicks had been hatched from
the 4000 eggs. The last hatch was the best of all, giving 607. I don't think we have ever had
as good results since, though to tell the truth I have not attempted to keep an exact count
of eggs incubated. My opinion is that fifty per cent is a very good average hatch, and that
one should not expect more.

In September, when the young birds were separated, the census report was 723 pullets and 764
cockerels, showing an infant mortality of 622, or twenty-nine per cent. The accidents and vicissitudes
of early chickenhood are serious matters to the unmothered chick, and they must not be overlooked
by the breeder who figures his profits on paper.

After the first year I kept no tabs on the chickens hatched; my desire was to add each year
600 pullets to my flock, and after the third season to dispose of as many hens. It doesn't
pay to keep hens that are more than two and a half years old. I have kept from 1200 to 1600
laying hens for the past six years. I do not know what it costs to feed one or all of them,
but I do know what moneys I have received for eggs, young cockerels, and old hens, and I am
satisfied.

There is a big profit in keeping hens for eggs if the conditions are right and the industry
is followed, in a businesslike way, in connection with other lines of business; that is, in
a factory farm. If one had to devote his whole time to the care of his plant, and were obliged
to buy almost every morsel of food which the fowls ate, and if his market were distant and
not of the best, I doubt of great success; but with food at the lowest and product at the highest,
you cannot help making good money. I do not think I have paid for food used for my fowls in
any one year more than $500; grits, shells, meat meal, and oil meal will cover the list. I
do not wish to induce any man or woman to enter this business on account of the glowing statements
which these pages contain. I am ideally situated. I am near one of the best markets for fine
food; I can sell all the eggs my hens will lay at high prices; food costs the minimum, for
it comes from my own farm; I utilize skim-milk, the by-product from another profitable industry,
to great advantage; and I had enough money to carry me safely to the time of product. In other
words, I could build my factory before I needed to look to it for revenue. I do not claim that
this is the only way, but I do claim that it is the way for the fore-handed middle-aged man
who wishes to change from city to country life without financial loss. Younger people with
less means can accomplish the same results, but they must offset money by time. The principle
of the factory farm will hold as well with the one as with the other.

To intensify farming is the only way to get the fat of the land. The nations of the old world
have nearly reached their limit in food production. They are purchasers in the open market.
This country must be that market; and it behooves us to look to it that the market be well
stocked. There is land enough now and to spare, but will it be so fifty or a hundred years
hence? Our arid lands will be made fertile by irrigation, but they will add only a small percentage
to the amount already in quasi-cultivation. Our future food supplies must be drawn largely
from the six million farms now under fences. These farms must be made to yield fourfold their
present product, or they will fall short, not only of the demands made upon them, but also
of their possibilities. That is why I preach the gospel of intensive farming, for grain, hay,
market, and factory farm alike.

I will put the chickens out of the way for the present, referring to them from time to time
and indicating their general management, the cost of their houses and food, and the amount
of money received for eggs and fowls. I do not think my plant would win the approval of fanciers,
and it is not in all ways up to date; but it is clean, healthy, and commodious, and the birds
attend as strictly to business as a reasonable owner could wish. I shall be glad to show it
to any one interested enough to search it out, and to go into the details of the business and
show how I have been able to make it so remunerative.

Sam is with me no longer. For three years he did good service and saved money, and the lurid
nose grew dim. There is, however, a limit to human endurance. Like victims of other forms of
circular insanity, the dipsomaniac completes his cycle in an uncertain period and falls upon
bad times. For a month before we parted company I saw signs of relapse in Sam. He was loquacious
at times, at other times morose. He talked about going into business for himself, and his nose
took on new color. I labored with him, but to no purpose; the spirit of unrest was upon him,
and it had to work its own. I held him firm long enough to secure another man, and then we
parted, he to do business for himself, I to get on as best I could. Sam painted his nose and
raised chickens and other things until his savings had flown; then he got a position with a
woman who runs a broiler plant, and for two years he has given good service. He will probably
continue in ways of well-doing until the next cycle is complete, when the beacon light will
blaze afresh and he will follow it on to the rocks. Such a man is more to be pitied than condemned,
for his anchor is sure to drag at times.

CHAPTER XXIV

THE HOLSTEIN MILK MACHINE

During the month of March the teams hauled more gravel. They also distributed the manure that
had been purchased in the fall for mulching the trees. While the ground was still frozen this
mulch was placed near the trees, to be used as soon as the sun had warmed the earth. The mound
of dirt at the base of each tree was of course levelled down before this dressing was applied.
I never afterward purchased stable or stock-yard manure, though I could often have used it
to advantage; for I did not think it safe to purchase this kind of fertilizer for a farm where
large numbers of animals are kept. The danger from infection is too great. Large quantities
of barnyard manure were furnished yearly out of my own pits, and I supplemented it with a good
deal of the commercial variety. I try to turn back to the land each year more than I take from
it, but I do not dare to go to a stock-yard for any part of my supply. It was not until I had
mentally established a quarantine for my hogs that I realized the danger from those six carloads
of manure; and I promised myself then that no such breach of quarantine should again occur.

The cows arrived on St. Patrick's Day. Our herd was then composed of the twenty Holstein heifers
(coming three years old), and six of the best of the common cows purchased with the farm. Within
forty days the herd was increased by the addition of twenty-three calves. Twenty-five were
born, but two were dead. Of this number, eighteen were Holsteins eligible for registration,
ten heifers, and eight bulls. Each calf was taken from its mother on the third day and fed
warm skim-milk from a patent feeder three times a day, all it would drink. When three weeks
old, seven of the Holstein calves and the five from the common cows were sent to market. They
brought $5.25 each above the expense of selling, or $63 for the bunch. The ten Holstein heifer
calves were of course held; and one bull calf, which had a double cross of Pieterje 2d and
Pauline Paul, and which seemed an unusually fair specimen, was kept for further development.

The cow barn was finished about April 1st, and shortly after that the herd was established
in permanent quarters. As the dairy-house was unfinished, and there was no convenient way of
disposing of the milk which now flowed in abundance, I bought a separator (for $200) and sent
the cream to a factory, using the fresh skim-milk for the calves and young pigs and chickens.

From March 22, when I began to sell, until May 10, when my dairy-house was in working order,
I received $203 for cream. Thompson had sold milk from the old cows, from August to December,
1895, to the amount of $132. This item should have been entered on the credit side for the
last year, but as it was not, we will make a note of it here. These are the only sales of milk
and cream made from Four Oaks since I bought the land.

The milk supply from my herd started out at a tremendous rate, considering the age of the cows.
It must be borne in mind that none of the thoroughbreds was within three years of her (probable)
best; yet they were doing nobly, one going as high as fifty-two pounds of milk in one day,
and none falling below thirty-six as a maximum. The common cows did nearly as well at first,
four of them giving a maximum of thirty-two pounds each in twenty-four hours. It was easy to
see the difference between the two sorts, however. The old ones had reached maturity and were
doing the best they could; the others were just beginning to manufacture milk, and were building
and regulating their machinery for that purpose. The Holsteins, though young, were much larger
than the old cows, and were enormous feeders. A third or a half more food passed their great,
coarse mouths than their less aristocratic neighbors could be coaxed to eat. Food, of course,
is the one thing that will make milk; other things being equal, then the cow that consumes
the most food will produce the most milk. This is the secret of the Holsteins' wonderful capacity
for assimilating enormous quantities of food without retaining it under their hides in the
shape of fat. They have been bred for centuries with the milk product in view, and they have
become notable machines for that purpose. They are not the cows for people to keep who have
to buy feed in a high market, for they are not easy keepers in any sense; but for the farmer
who raises a lot of grain and roughage which should be fed at his own door, they are ideal.
They will eat much and return much.

As to feeding for milk, I have followed nearly the same plan through my whole experiment. I
keep an abundance of roughage, usually shredded corn, before the cows all the time. When it
has been picked over moderately well, it is thrown out for bedding, and fresh fodder is put
in its place. The finer forages, timothy, red-top, clover, alfalfa, and oat straw, are always
cut fine, wetted, and mixed with grain before feeding. This food is given three times a day
in such quantities as will be eaten in forty-five minutes. Green forage takes the place of
dry in season, and fresh vegetables are served three times a week in winter. The grain ration
is about as follows: By weight, corn and cob meal, three parts; oatmeal, three parts; bran,
three parts; gluten meal, two parts; linseed meal, one part. The cash outlay for a ton of this
mixture is about $12; this price, of course, does not include corn and oats, furnished by the
farm. A Holstein cow can digest fifteen pounds of this grain a day. This means about two and
a half tons a year, with a cash outlay of $30 per annum for each head. Fresh water is always
given four times a day, and much of the time the cows have ready access to it. In cold weather
the water is warmed to about 65° F. The cows are let out in a twenty-acre field for exercise
every day, except in case of severe storms. They are fed forage in the open when the weather
is fine and insects are not troublesome, and they sometimes sleep in the open on hot nights;
but by far the largest part of their time is spent in their own stalls away from chilling winds
and biting flies. In their stables they are treated much as fine horses are,--well bedded,
well groomed, and well cared for in all ways.

A quiet, darkened stable conduces rumination. Loud talking, shouting, or laughing are not looked
upon with favor in our cow barn. On the other hand, continuous sounds, if at all melodious,
seem to soothe the animals and increase the milk flow. Judson, who has proved to be our best
herdsman, has a low croon in his mouth all the time. It can hardly be called a tune, though
I believe he has faith in it, but it has a fetching way with the herd. I have never known him
to be quick, sharp, or loud with the cows. When things go wrong, the crooning ceases. When
it is resumed, all is well in the cow world. The other man, French, who is an excellent milker,
and who stands well with the cows, has a half hiss, half whistle, such as English stable-boys
use, except that it runs up and down five notes and is lost at each end. The cows like it and
seem to admire French for his accomplishment even more than Judson, for they follow his movements
with evident pleasure expressed in their great ox eyes.

Rigid rules of cleanliness are carried out in every detail with the greatest exactness. The
house and the animals are cared for all the time as if on inspection. Before milking, the udders
are carefully brushed and washed, and the milker covers himself entirely with a clean apron.
As each cow is milked, the milker hangs the pail on a spring balance and registers the exact
weight on a blackboard. He then carries the milk through the door that leads to the dairy-house,
and pours it into a tank on wheels. This ends his responsibility. The dairymaid is then in charge.

CHAPTER XXV

THE DAIRYMAID

Of course I had trouble in getting a dairymaid. I was not looking for the bouncing, buxom,
red-cheeked, arms-akimbo, butter-colored-hair sort. I didn't care whether she were red-cheeked
and bouncing or not, but for obvious reasons I didn't want her hair to be butter-colored. What
I did want was a woman who understood creamery processes, and who could and would make the
very giltest of gilt-edged butter.

I commenced looking for my paragon in January. I interviewed applicants of both sexes and all
nationalities, but there was none perfect; no, not one. I was not exactly discouraged, but
I certainly began to grow anxious as the time approached when I should need my dairymaid, and
need her badly. One day, while looking over the Rural New Yorker (I was weaned on that paper),
I saw the following advertisement. "Wanted: Employment on a dairy-farm by a married couple
who understand the business." If this were true, these two persons were just what I needed;
but, was it true? I had tried a score of greater promise and had not found one that would do.
Was I to flush two at once, and would they fall to my gun?

A small town in one of the Middle Western states was given as the address, and I wrote at once.
My letter was strong in requirements, and asked for particulars as to experience, age, references,
and nationality. The reply came promptly, and was more to my liking than any I had received
before. Name, French; Americans, newly married, twenty-eight and twenty-six respectively; experience
four and three years in creamery and dairy work; references, good; the couple wished to work
together to save money to start a dairy of their own. I was pleased with the letter, which
was an unusual one to come from native-born Americans. Our people do not often hunt in couples
after this manner. I telegraphed them to come to the city at once.

It was late in April when I first saw the Frenches. The man was tall and raw-boned, but good-looking,
with a frank manner that inspired confidence. He was a farmer's son with a fair education,
who had saved a little money, and had married his wife out of hand lest some one else should
carry her off while he was building the nest for her.

"I took her when I could get her," he said, "and would have done it with a two-dollar bill
in my pocket rather than have taken chances."

The woman was worthy of such an extreme measure, for she looked capable of caring for both.
She was a fine pattern of a country girl, with a head full of good sense, and very useful-looking
hands and arms. Her face was good to look upon; it showed strength of character and a definite
object in life. She said she understood the creamery processes in all their niceties, and that
she could make butter good enough for Queen Victoria.

The proposition offered by this young couple was by far the best I had received, and I closed
with them at once. I agreed to pay each $25 a month to start with, and explained my plan of
an increasing wage of $1 a month for each period of six months' service. They thought they
ought to have $30 level. I thought so, too, if they were as good as they promised. But I had
a fondness for my increasing scale, and I held to it. These people were skilled laborers, and
were worth more to begin with than ordinary farm hands. That is why I gave them $25 a month
from the start. Six hundred dollars a year for a man and wife, with no expense except for clothing,
is good pay. They can easily put away $400 out of it, and it doesn't take long to get fore-handed.
I think the Frenches have invested $500 a year, on an average, since they came to Four Oaks.

It is now time to get at the dairy-house, since the dairy and the dairymaid are both in evidence.
The house was to be on the building line, and both Polly and I thought it should have attractive
features. We decided to make it of dark red paving brick. It was to be eighteen feet by thirty,
with two rooms on the ground. The first, or south room, ten feet by eighteen, was fitted for
storing fruit, and afforded a stairway to the rooms above, which were four in number besides
the bath. The larger room was of course the butter factory, and was equipped with up-to-date
appliances,--aërator, Pasteurizer, cooler, separator, Babcock tester, swing churn, butter-worker,
and so on. The house was to have steep gables and projecting eaves, with a window in each gable,
and two dormer windows in each roof. The walls were to be plastered, and the ground floor was
to be cement. It cost $1375.

As motive power for the churn and separator, a two-sheep-power treadmill has proved entirely
satisfactory. It is worked by two sturdy wethers who are harbored in a pleasant house and run,
close to the power-house, and who pay for their food by the sweat of their brows and the wool
from their backs. They do not appear to dislike the "demnition grind," which lasts but an hour
twice a day; they go without reluctance to the tramp that leads nowhere, and the futile journey
which would seem foolish to anything wiser than a sheep. This sheep-power is one of the curios
of the place. My grand-girls never lose their interest in it, and it has been photographed
and sketched more times than there are fingers and toes on the sheep.

The expenditure for equipment, from separator to sheep, was $354. I made an arrangement with
a fancy grocer in the city to furnish him thirty pounds, more or less, of fresh (unsalted)
butter, six days in the week, at thirty-three cents a pound, I to pay express charges. I bought
six butter-carriers with ice compartments for $3.75 each, $23 in all, and arranged with the
express company to deliver my packages to the grocer for thirty cents each. The butter netted
me thirty-two cents a pound that year, or about $60 a week.

In July I bought four thoroughbred Holsteins, four years old, in fresh milk, and in October,
six more, at an average price of $120 a head,--$1200 in all. These reënforcements made it possible
for me to keep my contract with the middleman, and often to exceed it.

The dairy industry was now fairly launched and in working order. It had cost, not to be exact,
$7000, and it was reasonably sure to bring back to the farm about $60 a week in cash, besides
furnishing butter for the family and an immense amount of skim-milk and butter-milk to feed
to the young animals on the place.

CHAPTER XXVI

LITTLE PIGS

By April 1st all my sows had farrowed. There was much variation in the number of pigs in these
nineteen litters. One noble mother gave me thirteen, two of which promptly died. Three others
farrowed eleven each, and so down to one ungrateful mother who contributed but five to the
industry at Four Oaks. The average, however, was good; 154 pigs on April 10th were all that
a halfway reasonable factory man could expect.

These youngsters were left with their mothers until eight weeks old; then they were put, in
bunches of thirty, into the real hog-house, which was by that time completed. It was 200 feet
long and 50 feet wide, with a 10-foot passageway through the length of it. On either side were
10 pens 20 feet by 20, each connected with a run 20 feet by 120. The house stood on a platform
or bed of cement 90 by 200 feet, which formed the floor of the house and extended 20 feet outside
of each wall, to secure cleanliness and a dry feeding-place in the open. The cement floor was
expensive ($1120 as first cost), but I think it has paid for itself several times over in health
and comfort to the herd. The structure on this floor was of the simplest; a double wall only
five feet high at the sides, shingled roof, broken at the ridge to admit windows, and strong
partitions. It cost $3100. As in the brood-sow house, there is a kitchen at the west end. The
150 little pigs made but a small showing in this great house, which was intended to shelter
six hundred of all sizes, from the eight-weeks-old baby pig to the nine-months-old three-hundred-pounder
ready for market.

Pigs destined for market never leave this house until ripe for killing. At six or seven months
a few are chosen to remain on the farm and keep up its traditions; but the great number live
their ephemeral lives of eight months luxuriously, even opulently, until they have made the
ham and bacon which, poor things, they cannot save, and then pass into the pork barrel or the
smoke-house without a sigh of regret. They toil not, neither do they spin; but they have a
place in the world's economy, and they fit it perfectly. So long as one animal must eat another,
the man animal should thank the hog animal for his generosity.

Now that my big hog-house seemed so empty, I would gladly have sent into the highways and byways
to buy young stock to fill it; but I dared not break my quarantine. I could easily have picked
up one hundred or even two hundred new-weaned pigs, within six or eight miles of my place,
at about $1.50 each, and they would have grown into fat profit by fall; but I would not take
a risk that might bear ill fruit. I had slight depressions of spirits when I visited my piggery
during that summer; but I chirked up a little in the fall, when the brood sows again made good.
But more of that anon.

CHAPTER XXVII

WORK ON THE HOME FORTY

April and May made amends for the rudeness of March, and the ploughs were early afield. Thompson,
Zeb, Johnson, and sometimes Anderson, followed the furrows, first in 10 and 11, and lastly
in 13. Number 9 had a fair clover sod, and was not disturbed. We ploughed in all about 114
acres, but we did not subsoil. We spent twenty days ploughing and as many more in fitting the
ground for seed. The weather was unusually warm for the season, and there was plenty of rain.
By the middle of May, oats were showing green in Nos. 8, 10, 11, 12, and 13,--sixty-two acres.
The corn was well planted in 15 and the west three-quarters of 14,--eighty-two acres. The other
ten acres in the young orchard was planted to fodder corn, sown in drills so that it could
be cultivated in one direction.

The ten-acre orchard on the south side of the home lot was used for potatoes, sugar beets,
cabbages, turnips, etc., to furnish a winter supply of vegetables for the stock.

The outlook for alfalfa was not bright. In the early spring we fertilized it again, using five
hundred pounds to the acre, though it seemed like a conspicuous waste. The warm rains and days
of April and May brought a fine crop of weeds; and about the middle of May I turned Anderson
loose in the fields with a scythe, and he mowed down everything in sight.

After that things soon began to look better in the alfalfa fields. As the season was favorable,
we were able to cut a crop of over a ton to the acre early in July, and nearly as much in the
latter part of August. We cut forty tons from these twenty acres within a year from seeding,
but I suspect that was unusual luck. I had used thirteen hundred pounds of commercial fertilizer
to the acre, and the season was very favorable for the growth of the plant. I have since cut
these fields three times each year, with an average yield of five tons to the acre for the
whole crop.

I like alfalfa, both as green and as dry forage. When we use it green, we let it lie in swath
for twenty-four hours, that it may wilt thoroughly before feeding. It is then fit food for
hens, hogs, and, in limited quantities, for cows, and is much relished. When used dry, it is
always cut fine and mixed with ground grains. In this shape it is fed liberally to hens and
hogs, and also to milch cows; for the latter it forms half of the cut-food ration.

While the crops are growing, we will find time to note the changes on the home lot. Nearly
in front of the farm-house, and fifty yards distant, was a space well fitted for the kitchen
garden. We marked off a plat two hundred feet by three hundred, about one and a half acres,
carted a lot of manure on it, and ploughed it as deep as the subsoiler would reach. This was
done as soon as the frost permitted. We expected this garden to supply vegetables and small
fruits for the whole colony at Four Oaks. An acre and a half can be made exceedingly productive
if properly managed.

Along the sides of this garden we planted two rows of currant and gooseberry bushes, six feet
between rows, and the plants four feet apart in the rows. The ends of the plat were left open
for convenience in horse cultivation. Ten feet outside these rows of bush fruit was planted
a line of quince trees, thirty on each side, and twenty feet beyond these a row of cherry trees,
twenty in each row.

Near the west boundary of the home lot, and north of the lane that enters it, I planted two
acres of dwarf pear trees--Bartlett and Duchess,--three hundred trees to the acre. I also planted
six hundred plum trees--Abundance, Wickson, and Gold--in the chicken runs on lot 4. After May
1, when he was relieved from his farm duties, Johnson had charge of the planting and also of
the gardening, and he took up his special work with energy and pleasure.

The drives on the home lot were slightly rounded with ploughs and scraper, and then covered
with gravel. The open slope intended for the lawn was now to be treated. It comprised about
ten acres, irregular in form and surface, and would require a good deal of work to whip it
into shape. A lawn need not be perfectly graded,--in fact, natural inequalities with dips and
rises are much more attractive; but we had to take out the asperities. We ploughed it thoroughly,
removed all stumps and stones, levelled and sloped it as much as pleased Polly, harrowed it
twice a week until late August, sowed it heavily to grass seed, rolled it, and left it.

Polly had the house in her mind's eye. She held repeated conversations with Nelson, and was
as full of plans and secrets as she could hold. By agreement, she was to have a free hand to
the extent of $15,000 for the house and the carriage barn. I never really examined the plans,
though I saw the blue prints of what appeared to be a large house with a driving entrance on
the east and a great wide porch along the whole south side. I did not know until it was nearly
finished how large, convenient, and comfortable it was to be. A hall, a great living-room,
the dining room, a small reception room, and an office, bedroom, and bath for me, were all
on the ground floor, besides a huge wing for the kitchen and other useful offices.

Above stairs there was room for the family and a goodly number of friends. We had agreed that
the house should be simple in all ways, with no hard wood except floors, and no ornamentation
except paint and paper. It must be larger than our needs, for we looked forward to delightful
visits from many friends. We were to have more leisure than ever before for social life, and
we desired to make the most of our opportunities.

A country house is by all odds the finest place to entertain friends and to be entertained
by them. They come on invitation, not as a matter of form, and they stay long enough to put
by questions of weather, clothes, and servant-girls, and to get right down to good old-fashioned
visiting. Real heart-to-heart talks are everyday occurrences in country visits, while they
are exceptional in city calls. We meant to make much of our friends at Four Oaks, and to have
them make much of us. We have discovered new values even in old friends, since we began to
live with them, weeks at a time, under the same roof. Their interests are ours, and our plans
are warmly taken up by them. There is nothing like it among the turmoils and interruptions
of town life, and the older we grow the more we need this sort of rest among our friends. The
guest book at the farm will show very few weeks, in the past six years, when friends haven't
been with us, and Polly and I feel that the pleasure we have received from this source ought
to be placed on the credit side of the farm ledger.

Another reason for a company house was that Jack and Jane would shortly be out of school. It
was not at all in accord with our plan that they should miss any pleasure by our change. Indeed,
we hoped that the change would be to their liking and to their advantage.

CHAPTER XXVIII

DISCOUNTING THE MARKET

We broke ground for the house late in May, and Nelson said that we should be in it by Thanksgiving
Day. Soon after the plans were settled Polly informed me that she should not spend much money
on the stable.

"Can't do it," she said, "and do what I ought to on the house. I will give you room for six
horses; the rest, if you have more, must go to the farm barn. I cannot spend more than $1100
or $1200 on the barn."

Polly was boss of this department, and I was content to let her have her way. She had already
mulcted me to the extent of $436 for trees, plants, and shrubs which were even then grouped
on the lawn after a fashion that pleased her. I need not go into the details of the lawn planting,
the flower garden, the pergola, and so forth. I have a suspicion that Polly has in mind a full
account of the "fight for the home forty," in a form greatly better than I could give it, and
it is only fair that she should tell her own story. I am not the only one who admires her landscape,
her flower gardens, and her woodcraft. Many others do honor to her tastes and to the evidence
of thought which the home lot shows. She disclaims great credit, for she says, "One has only
to live with a place to find out what it needs."

As I look back to the beginning of my experiment, I see only one bit of good luck that attended
it. Building material was cheap during the months in which I had to build so much. Nothing
else specially favored me, while in one respect my experiment was poorly timed. The price of
pork was unusually low. For three years, from 1896, the price of hogs never reached $5 per
hundred pounds in our market,--a thing unprecedented for thirty years. I never sold below three
and a half cents, but the showing would have been wonderfully bettered could I have added another
cent or two per pound for all the pork I fattened. The average price for the past twenty-five
years is well above five cents a pound for choice lots. Corn and all other foods were also
cheap; but this made little difference with me, because I was not a seller of grain.

In 1896 I was, however, a buyer of both corn and oats. In September of that year corn sold
on 'Change at 19-1/2 cents a bushel, and oats at 14-3/4. These prices were so much below the
food value of these grains that I was tempted to buy. I sent a cash order to a commission house
for five thousand bushels of each. I stored this grain in my granary, against the time of need,
at a total expense of $1850,--21 cents a bushel for corn and 16 for oats. I had storage room
and to spare, and I knew that I could get more than a third of a cent out of each pound of
corn, and more than half a cent out of each pound of oats. I recalled the story of a man named
Joseph who did some corn business in Egypt a good many years ago, much in this line, and who
did well in the transaction. There was no dream of fat kine in my case; but I knew something
of the values of grains, and it did not take a reader of riddles to show me that when I could
buy cheaper than I could raise, it was a good time to purchase.

As I said once before, there have been no serious crop failures at Four Oaks,--indeed, we can
show better than an average yield each year; but this extra corn in my cribs has given me confidence
in following my plan of very liberal feeding. With this grain on hand I was able to cut twenty
acres of oats in Nos. 10 and 11 for forage. This was done when the grain was in the milk, and
I secured about sixty tons of excellent hay, much loved by horses. We got from No. 9 a little
less than twelve tons of clover,--alfalfa furnished forty tons; and there was nearly twenty
tons of old hay left over from that originally purchased. With all this forage, good of its
kind, there was, however, no timothy or red top, which is by all odds the best hay for horses.
I determined to remedy this lack before another year. As soon as the oats were off lots 10
and 11, they were ploughed and crossed with the disk harrow. From then until September 1, these
fields were harrowed each week in half lap, so that by the time we were ready to seed them
they were in excellent condition and free from weeds. About September 1 they were sown to timothy
and red top, fifteen pounds each to the acre, top-dressed with five hundred pounds of fertilizer,
harrowed once more, rolled, and left until spring, when another dose of fertilizer was used.

I wished to establish twenty acres of timothy and as much alfalfa, to furnish the hay supply
for the farm. With one hundred tons of alfalfa and sixty of timothy, which I could reasonably
expect, I could get on splendidly.

From the first I have practised feeding my hay crop for immediate returns. The land receives
five hundred pounds of fertilizer per acre when it is sown, a like amount again in the spring,
and, as soon as a crop is cut, three hundred pounds an acre more. This usually gives a second
crop of timothy about September 1, if the season is at all favorable. The alfalfa is cut at
least three times, and for each cutting it receives three hundred pounds of plant food per
acre. In the course of a year I spend from $10 to $12 an acre for my grass land. In return
I get from each acre of timothy, in two cuttings, about three and a half tons; worth, at an
average selling price, $12 a ton. The alfalfa yields nearly five tons per acre, and has a feeding
value of $10 a ton. I have sold timothy hay a few times, but I feel half ashamed to say so,
for it is against my view of justice to the land. I find oat hay cheaper to raise than timothy,
and, as it is quite as well liked by the horses, I have been tempted to turn a part of my timothy
crop into money directly from the field.

CHAPTER XXIX

FROM CITY TO COUNTRY

In early July I went through my young orchard, which had been cut back so ruthlessly the previous
autumn, and carefully planned a head for each tree. Quite a bunch of sprouts had started from
near the top of each stub, and were growing luxuriantly. Out of each bunch I selected three
or four to form the head; the rest were rubbed off or cut out with a sharp knife or pruning
shears. It surprised me to see what a growth some of these sprouts had made; sixteen or eighteen
inches was not uncommon. Big roots and big bodies were pushing great quantities of sap toward
the tops.

Of course I bought farm machinery during this first season,--mower, reaper, corn reaper, shredder,
and so on. In October I took account of expenditures for machinery, grass seed, and fertilizer,
and found that I had invested $833. I had also, at an expense of $850, built a large shed or
tool-house for farm implements. It is one of the rules at Four Oaks to grease and house all
tools when not in actual use. I believe the observation of this rule has paid for the shed.

In October 1896 I had a good offer for my town house, and accepted it. I had purchased the
property eleven years before for $22,000, but, as it was in bad condition, I had at once spent
$9000 on it and the stable. I sold it for $34,000, with the understanding that I could occupy
it for the balance of the year if I wished.

After selling the house, I calculated the cost of the elementary necessities, food and shelter,
which I had been willing to pay during many years of residence in the city. The record ran
about like this:--

Interest at 5% on house valued at $34,000   $1700.00 Yearly taxes on same                 
340.00 Insurance                                      80.00 Fuel and light                
250.00 Wages for one man and three women            1200.00 Street sprinkling, watchman, etc.
90.00 Food, including water, ice, etc.             1550.00

     Making a total of                      $5210.00

It cost me $100 a week to shelter and feed my family in the city. This, of course, took no
account of personal expenses,--travel, sight-seeing, clothing, books, gifts, or the thousand
and one things which enter more or less prominently into the everyday life of the family.

If the farm was to furnish food and shelter for us in the future, it would be no more than
fair to credit it with some portion of this expenditure, which was to cease when we left the
city home. What portion of it could be justly credited to the farm was to be decided by comparative
comforts after a year of experience. I did not plan our exodus for the sake of economy, or
because I found it necessary to retrench; our rate of living was no higher than we were willing
and able to afford. Our object was to change occupation and mode of life without financial
loss, and without moulting a single comfort. We wished to end our days close to the land, and
we hoped to prove that this could be done with both grace and profit. I had no desire to lose
touch with the city, and there was no necessity for doing so. Four Oaks is less than an hour
from the heart of town. I could leave it, spend two or three hours in town, and be back in
time for luncheon without special effort; and Polly would think nothing of a shopping trip
and friends home with her to dinner. The people of Exeter were nearly all city people who were
so fortunate as not to be slaves to long hours. They were rich by work or by inheritance, and
they gracefully accepted the otium cum dignitate which this condition permitted. Social life
was at its best in Exeter, and many of its people were old acquaintances of ours. A noted country
club spread its broad acres within two miles of our door, and I had been favorably posted for
membership. It did not look as though we should be thrust entirely upon our own resources in
the country; but at the worst we had resources within our own walls and fences that would fend
off all but the most violent attacks of ennui.

We were both keenly interested in the experiment. Nothing that happened on the farm went unchallenged.
The milk product for the day was a thing of interest; the egg count could not go unnoted; a
hatch of chickens must be seen before they left the incubator; a litter of new-born pigs must
be admired; horses and cows were forever doing things which they should or should not do; men
and maids had griefs and joys to share with mistress or Headman; flowers were blooming, trees
were leafing, a robin had built in the black oak, a gopher was tunnelling the rose bed,--a
thousand things, full of interest, were happening every day. As a place where things the most
unexpected do happen, recommend me to a quiet farm.

But we were not to depend entirely upon outside things for diversion. Books we had galore,
and we both loved them. Many a charming evening have I spent, sometimes alone, more often with
two or three congenial friends, listening to Polly's reading. This is one of her most delightful
accomplishments. Her friends never tire of her voice, and her voice never tires of her friends.
We all grow lazy when she is about; but there are worse things than indolence. No, we did not
mean to drop out of anything worth while; but we were pretty well provisioned against a siege,
if inclement weather or some other accident should lock us up at the farm.

To keep still better hold of the city, I suggested to Tom and Kate that they should keep open
house for us, or any part of us, whenever we were inclined to take advantage of their hospitality.
This would give us city refuge after late functions of all sorts. The plan has worked admirably.
I devote $1200 a year out of the $5200 of food-and-shelter money to the support of our city
shelter at Kate's house, and the balance, $4000, is entered at the end of each year on the
credit side of the farm ledger. Nor do I think this in any way unjust. We do not expect to
get things for nothing, and we do not wish to. If the things we pay for now are as valuable
as those we paid for six or eight years ago, we ought not to find fault with an equal price.
I have repeatedly polled the family on this question, and we all agree that we have lost nothing
by the change, and that we have gained a great deal in several ways. Our friends are of like
opinion; and I am therefore justified in crediting Four Oaks with a considerable sum for food
and shelter. We have bettered our condition without foregoing anything, and without increasing
our expenses. That is enough.

CHAPTER XXX

AUTUMN RECKONING

We harvested the crops in the autumn of 1896, and were thankful for the bountiful yield. Nearly
sixteen hundred bushels of oats and twenty-seven hundred bushels of corn made a proud showing
in the granary, when added to its previous stock. The corn fodder, shredded by our own men
and machine, made the great forage barn look like an overflowing cornucopia, and the only extra
expense attending the harvest was $31 paid for threshing the oats.

Three important items of food are consumed on the farm that have to be purchased each year,
and as there is not much fluctuation in the price paid, we may as well settle the per capita
rate for the milch cows and hogs for once and all. At each year's end we can then easily find
the cash outlay for the herds by multiplying the number of stock by the cost of keeping one.

My Holstein cows consume a trifle less than three tons of grain each per year,--about fifteen
pounds a day. Taking the ration for four cows as a matter of convenience, we have: corn and
cob meal, three tons, and oatmeal, three tons, both kinds raised and ground on the farm, and
not charged in this account; wheat bran, three tons at $18, $54; gluten meal, two tons at $24,
$48; oil meal, one ton, $26; total cash outlay for four cows, $128, or $32 per head. This estimate
is, however, about $2 too liberal. We will, hereafter, charge each milch cow $30, and will
also charge each hog fattened on the place $1 for shorts and middlings consumed. This is not
exact, but it is near enough, and it greatly simplifies accounts.

As I kept twenty-six cows ten months, and ten more for an average of four and a half months,
the feeding for 1896 would be equivalent to one year for thirty cows, or $900. To this add
$120 for swine food and $25 for grits and oyster shells for the chickens, and we have $1045
paid for food for stock. Shoeing the horses for the year and repairs to machinery cost $157.
The purchased food for eight employees for twelve months and for two additional ones for eight
months, amounted to $734. The wage account, including $50 extra to Thompson, was $2358.

A second hen-house, a duplicate of the first, was built before October. It was intended that
each house should accommodate four hundred laying hens. We have now on the place five of these
houses; but only two of them, besides the incubator and the brooder-house, were built in 1896.
As offset to the heavy expenditure of this year, I had not much to show. Seven hundred cockerels
were sold in November for $342. In October the pullets began laying in desultory fashion, and
by November they had settled down to business; and that quarter they gave me 703 dozen eggs
to sell. As these eggs were marketed within twenty-four hours, and under a guarantee, I had
no difficulty in getting thirty cents a dozen, net. November eggs brought $211, and the December
out-put, $252. I sold 600 bushels of potatoes for $150, and the apples from 150 of the old
trees (which, by the way, were greatly improved this year) brought $450 on the trees.

The cows did well. In the thirty-three weeks from May 12 to December 31, I sold a little more
than 6600 pounds of butter, which netted me $2127.

We had 122 young hogs to sell in December. They had been crowded as fast as possible to make
good weight, and they went to market at an average of 290 pounds a head. The price was low,
but I got the top of the market,--$3.55 a hundred, which amounted to $1170 after paying charges.
I had reserved twenty-five of the most likely young sows to stay on the farm, and had transferred
eight to the village butcher, who was to return them in the shape of two barrels of salt pork,
thirty-two smoked hams and shoulders, and a lot of bacon.

The old sows farrowed again in September and early October, and we went into the winter with
162 young pigs. I get these details out of the way now in order to turn to the family and the
social side of life at Four Oaks.

CHAPTER XXXI

THE CHILDREN

The house did not progress as fast as Nelson had promised, and it was likely to be well toward
Christmas before we could occupy it. As the days shortened, Polly and I found them crowded
with interests. Life at Four Oaks was to mean such a radical change that we could not help
speculating about its influence upon us and upon the children. Would it be satisfactory to
us and to them? Or should we find after a year or two of experiment that we had been mistaken
in believing that we could live happier lives in the country than in town? A year and a half
of outdoor life and freedom from professional responsibilities had wrought a great change in
me. I could now eat and sleep like a hired man, and it seemed preposterous to claim that I
was going to the country for my health. My medical adviser, however, insisted that I had not
gotten far enough away from the cause of my breakdown, and that it would be unwise for me to
take up work again for at least another year. In my own mind there was a fixed opinion that
I should never take it up again. I loved it dearly; but I had given long, hard service to it,
and felt that I had earned the right to freedom from its exacting demands. I have never lost
interest in this, the noblest of professions, but I had done my share, and was now willing
to watch the work of others. In my mind there was no doubt about the desirability of the change.
I have always loved the thought of country life, and now that my thoughts were taking material
shape, I was keen to push on. Polly looked toward the untrammelled life we hoped to lead with
as great pleasure as I.

But how about the children? Would it appeal to them with the same force as to us? The children
have thus far been kept in the background. I wanted to start my factory farm and to get through
with most of its dull details before introducing them to the reader, lest I should be diverted
from the business to the domestic, or social, proposition.

The farm is laid by for the winter, and most of the details needed for a just comprehension
of our experiment have been given. From this time on we will deal chiefly with results. We
will watch the out-put from the factory, and commend or find fault as the case may deserve.

The social side of life is quite as important as the commercial, for though we gain money,
if we lose happiness, what profit have we? Let us study the children to see what chances for
happiness and good fellowship lie in them.

Kate is our first-born. She is a bright, beautiful woman of five-and-twenty, who has had a
husband these six years, one daughter for four years, and, wonderful to relate, another daughter
for two years. She is quick and practical, with strong opinions of her own, prompt with advice
and just as prompt with aid; a woman with a temper, but a friend to tie to in time of stress.
She has the education of a good school, and what is infinitely better, the cultivation of an
observing mind. She is quick with tongue and pen, but her quickness is so tempered by unquestioned
friendliness that it fastens people to her as with a cord. She overflows with interests of
every description, but she is never too busy to listen sympathetically to a child or a friend.
She is the practical member of the family, and we rarely do much out of the ordinary without
first talking it over with Kate.

Tom Hamilton, her husband, is a young man who is getting on in the world. He is clever in his
profession, and sure to succeed beyond the success of most men. He is quiet in manner, but
he seems to have a way of managing his quick, handsome wife, which is something of a surprise
to me, and to her also, I fancy. They are congenial and happy, and their children are beings
to adore. Tom and Kate are to live in town. They are too young for the joys of country life,
and must needs drag on as they are, loved and admired by a host of friends. They can, and will,
however, spend much time at Four Oaks; and I need not say they approved our plans.

Jack is our second. He was a junior at Yale, and I am shy of saying much about him lest I be
accused of partiality. Enough to say that he is tall, blond, handsome, and that he has gentle,
winning ways that draw the love of men and women. He is a dreamer of dreams, but he has a sturdy
drop of Puritan blood in his veins that makes him strong in conviction and brave in action.
Jack has never caused me an hour of anxiety, and I was ever proud to see him in any company.

Concerning Jane, I must be pardoned in advance for a father's favoritism. She is my youngest,
and to me she seems all that a father could wish. Of fair height and well moulded, her physique
is perfect. Good health and a happy life had set the stamp of superb womanhood upon her eighteen
years. Any effort to describe her would be vain and unsatisfactory. Suffice it to say that
she is a pure blonde, with eyes, hair, and skin just to my liking. She is quiet and shy in
manner, deliberate in speech, sensitive beyond measure, wise in intuitive judgment, clever
in history and literature, but always a little in doubt as to the result of putting seven and
eight together, and not unreasonably dominated by the rules of orthography. She is fond of
outdoor life, in love with horses and dogs, and withal very much of a home girl. Every one
makes much of Jane, and she is not spoiled, but rather improved by it. She was in her second
year at Farmington, and, like all Farmington students, she cared more for girls than for boys.

These were the children whom I was to transport from the city, where they were born, to the
quiet life at Four Oaks. After carefully taking their measures, I felt little hesitation about
making the change. They, of course, had known of the plan, and had often been to the farm;
but they were still to find out what it really meant to live there. A saddle horse and dogs
galore would square me with Jane, beyond question; but what about Jack? Time must decide that.
His plan of life was not yet formed, and we could afford to wait. We did not have much time
in which to weigh these matters, for the Christmas holidays were near, and the youngsters would
soon be home. We planned to be settled in the new house when they arrived.

CHAPTER XXXII

THE HOME-COMING

In arranging to move my establishment I was in a quandary as to what it was best to do for
a coachman. Lars had been with me fifteen years. He came a green Swedish lad, developed into
a first-class coachman, married a nice girl--and for twelve years he and his wife lived happily
in the rooms above my stable. Two boys were born to them, and these lads were now ten and twelve
years of age. Shortly after I bought the farm Lars was so unfortunate as to lose his good wife,
and he and the boys were left forlorn. A relative came and gave them such care as she could,
but the mother and wife was missed beyond remedy. In his depression Lars took to drink, and
things began to go wrong in the stable. He was not often drunk, but he was much of the time
under the influence of alcohol, and consequently not reliable. I had done my best for the poor
fellow, and he took my lectures and chidings in the way they were intended, and, indeed, he
tried hard to break loose from the one bad habit, but with no good results. His evil friends
had such strong hold on him that they could and would lead him astray whenever there was opportunity.
Polly and I had many talks about this matter. She was growing timid under his driving, and
yet she was attached to him for long and faithful service.

"Let's chance it," she said. "If we get him away from these people who lead him astray, he
may brace up and become a man again."

"But what about the boys, Polly?" said I.

"We ought to be able to find something for the boys to do on the farm, and they can go to school
at Exeter. Can't they drive the butter-cart out each morning and home after school? They're
smart chaps, you know, and used to doing things."

Polly had found a way, and I was heartily glad of it, for I did not feel like giving up my
hold on the man and the boys. Lars was glad of the chance to make good again, and he willingly
agreed to go. He was to receive $23 a month. This was less than he was getting in the city,
but it was the wage which we were paying that year at the farm, and he was content; for the
boys were each to receive $5 a month, and to be sent to school eight months a year for three years.

This matter arranged, we began to plan for the moving. I had five horses in my stable,--a span
of blacks for the carriage and three single drivers. Besides the horses, harness, and equipment,
there was a large carriage, a brougham, a Goddard phæton, a runabout, and a cart. I exchanged
the brougham and the Goddard for a station wagon and a park phæton, as more suitable for country
use.

The barn equipment was all sent in one caravan, Thompson and Zeb coming into town to help Lars
drive out. Our lares and penates were sent by freight on December 17. Polly had managed to
coax another thousand dollars out of me for things for the house; and these, with the furniture
from our old home, made a brave showing when we gathered around the big fire in the living
room, December 22, for our first night in the country.

Tom, Kate, and the grand-girls were with us to spend the holidays, and so, too, was the lady
whom we call Laura. I shall not try to say much about Laura. She was a somewhat recent friend.
How we ever came to know her well, was half a mystery; and how we ever got on before we knew
her well, was a whole one.

Roaring fires and shaded lamps gave an air of homelike grace to our new house, and we decided
that we would never economize in either wood or oil; they seemed to stir the home spirit more
than ever did coal or electricity.

The day had been a busy one for the ladies, but they were pleased with results as they looked
around the well-ordered house and saw the work of their hands. Before separating for the night,
Kate said:--

"I'm going to town to-morrow, and I'll pick up Jane and Jack in time to take the four o'clock
train out. Papa will meet us at the station, and Momee will greet us at the doorstep. Make
an illumination, Momee, and we will carry them by storm. Tom will have to take a later train,
but he will be here in time for dinner."

The afternoon of the 23d, the children came, and there was no failure in Kate's plan. The youngsters
were delighted with everything. Jane said:--

"I always wanted to live on a farm. I can have a saddle horse now, and keep as many dogs as
I like, can't I, Dad?"

"You shall have the horse, and the dogs, too, when you come to stay."

"Daddy," said Jack, "this will be great for you. Let me finish at an agricultural college,
so that I can be of some practical help."

"Not on your life, my son! What your daddy doesn't know about farming wouldn't spoil a cup
of tea! While you are at home I will give you daily instruction in this most wholesome and
independent business, which will be of incalculable benefit to you, and which, I am frank to
say, you cannot get in any agricultural college. College, indeed! I have spent thousands of
hours in dreaming and planning what a farm should be like! Do you suppose I am going to let
these visions become contaminated by practical knowledge? Not by a long way! I have, in the
silent watches of the night, reduced the art to mathematical exactness, and I can show you
the figures. Don't talk to me about colleges!"

After supper we took the children through the house. Every part was inspected, and many were
the expressions of pleasure and admiration. They were delighted with their rooms, and apparently
with everything else. We finally quieted down in front of the open fire and discussed plans
for the holidays. The children decided that it must be a house party.

"Florence Marcy is with an aunt for whom she doesn't particularly care, and Minnie will just
jump at the chance of spending a week in the country," said Jane.

"You can invite three girls, and Jack can have three men. Of course Jessie Gordon will be here.
We will drive over in the morning and make sure of her."

"Jack, whom will you ask? Get some good men out here, won't you?"

"The best in the world, little sister, and you will have to keep a sharp lookout or you will
lose your heart to one of them. Frank Howard will count it a lark. He has stuck to the "business"
as faithfully as if he were not heir to it, and he will come sure to-morrow night. Dear old
Phil--my many years' chum--will come because I ask him. These two are all right, and we can
count on them. The other one is Jim Jarvis,--the finest man in college."

"Tell us about him, Jack."

"Jarvis's father lives in Montana, and has a lot of gold mines and other things to keep him
busy. He doesn't have time to pay much attention to his son, who is growing up after his own
fashion. Jim's mother is dead, and he has neither brother nor sister,--nothing but money and
beauty and health and strength and courage and sense and the stanchest heart that ever lifted
waistcoat! He has been on the eleven three years. They want him in the boat, but he'll not
have it; says it's not good work for a man. He's in the first division, well toward the front,
too, and in the best society. He's taken a fancy to me, and I'm dead gone on him. He's the
man for you to shun, little woman, unless you wish to be led captive."

"There are others, Jack, so don't worry about me. But do you think you can secure this paragon?"

"Not a doubt of it! I'll wire him in the morning, and he'll be here as soon as steam can bring
him; he's my best chum, you know."

This would make our party complete. We were all happy and pleased, and the evening passed before
we knew it.

CHAPTER XXXIII

CHRISTMAS EVE

The next day was a busy one for all of us. Polly and Jane drove to the Gordons and secured
Miss Jessie, and then Jane went to town to fetch her other friends. Jack went with her, after
having telegraphed to Jim Jarvis. They all came home by mid-afternoon, just as a message came
from Jarvis: "Will be on deck at six."

Florence Marcy and Minnie Henderson were former neighbors and schoolmates of Jane's. They were
fine girls to look at and bright girls to talk with; blondes, eighteen, high-headed, full of
life, and great girls for a house party. Phil and Frank were good specimens of their kinds.
Frank was a little below medium height, slight, blond, vivacious to a degree, full of fun,
and the most industrious talker within miles; he would "stir things up" at a funeral. Phil
Stone was tall, slender, dark, quiet, well-dressed, a good dancer, and a very agreeable fellow
in the corner of the room, where his low musical voice was most effective.

Jessie Gordon came at five o'clock. We were all very fond of Jessie, and who could help it?
She was tall (considerably above the average height), slender, straight as an arrow, graceful
in repose and in motion. She carried herself like a queen, with a proud kind of shyness that
became her well. Her head was small and well set on a slender neck, her hair dark, luxurious,
wavy, and growing low over a broad forehead, her eyes soft brown, shaded by heavy brows and
lashes. She had a Grecian nose, and her mouth was a shade too wide, but it was guarded by singularly
perfect and sensitive lips. Her chin was pronounced enough to give the impression of firmness;
indeed, save for the soft eyes and sensitive mouth, firmness predominated. She was not a great
talker, yet every one loved to listen to her. She laughed with her eyes and lips, but rarely
with her voice. She enjoyed intensely, and could, therefore, suffer intensely. She was a dear
girl in every way.

All was now ready for the début of Jack's paragon. Jack had driven to the station to fetch
him, and presently the sound of wheels on the gravel drive announced the arrival of the last
guest. I went into the hall to meet the men.

"Daddy, I want you to know my chum, Jim Jarvis,--the finest all-round son of old Eli. Jarvis,
this is my daddy,--the finest father that ever had son!"

"I'm right glad to meet you, Mr. Jarvis; your renown has preceded you."

"I fear, Doctor, it has exceeded me as well. Jack is not to be trusted on all subjects. But,
indeed, I thank you for your hospitality; it was a godsend to me."

As we entered the living room, Polly came forward and I presented Jarvis to her.

"You are more than welcome, Mr. Jarvis! Jack's 'best friend' is certain of a warm corner at
our fireside."

"Madam, I find no word of thanks, but I do thank you. I have envied Jack his home letters and
the evidences of mother care more than anything else,--and God knows there are enough other
things to envy him for. I have no mother, and my father is too busy to pay much attention to
me. I wish you would adopt me; I'll try to rival Jack in all that is dutiful."

She did adopt him then and there, for who could refuse such a son! Brown hair, brown eyes,
brown skin, a frank, rugged, clean-shaven face, features strong enough to excite criticism
and good enough to bear it; broad-shouldered, deep-chested, strong in arm and limb, he carried
his six feet of manhood like an Apollo in tweeds. He was introduced to the girls,--the men
he knew,--but he was not so quick in his speeches to them. Our Hercules was only mildly conscious
of his merits, and was evidently relieved when Jack hurried him off to his room to dress for
dinner. When he was fairly out of hearing there was a chorus of comments. The girls all declaimed
him handsome, and the boys said:--

"That isn't the best of it,--he's a trump! Wait till you know him."

Jane was too loyal to Jack to admit that his friend was any handsomer or in any way a finer
fellow than her brother.

"Who said he was?" said Frank, "Jack Williams is out and out the finest man I know. We were
sizing him up by such fellows as Phil and me."

"Jack's the most popular man at Yale," said Phil, "but he's too modest to know it; Jarvis will
tell you so. He thinks it's a great snap to have Jack for his chum."

These things were music in my ears, for I was quite willing to agree with the boys, and the
mother's eyes were full of joy as she led the way to the dining room. That was a jolly meal.
Nothing was said that could be remembered, and yet we all talked a great deal and laughed a
great deal more. City, country, farm, college, and seminary were touched with merry jests.
Light wit provoked heavy laughter, and every one was the better for it. It was nine o'clock
before we left the table. I heard Jarvis say:--

"Miss Jane, I count it very unkind of Jack not to have let me go to Farmington with him last
term. He used to talk of his 'little sister' as though she were a miss in short dresses. Jack
is a deep and treacherous fellow!"

"Rather say, a very prudent brother," said Jane. "However, you may come to the Elm Tree Inn
in the spring term, if Jack will let you."

"I'll work him all winter," was Jarvis's reply.

CHAPTER XXXIV

CHRISTMAS

Christmas light was slow in coming. There was a hush in the air as if the earth were padded
so that even the footsteps of Nature might not be heard. Out of my window I saw that a great
fall of snow had come in the night. The whole landscape was covered by fleecy down--soft and
white as it used to be when I first saw it on the hills of New England. No wind had moved it;
it lay as it fell, like a white mantle thrown lightly over the world. Great feathery flakes
filled the air and gently descended upon the earth, like that beautiful Spirit that made the
plains of Judea bright two thousand years ago. It seemed a fitting emblem of that nature which
covered the unloveliness of the world by His own beauty, and changed the dark spots of earth
to pure white.

It was an ideal Christmas morning,--clean and beautiful. Such a wealth of purity was in the
air that all the world was clothed with it. The earth accepted the beneficence of the skies,
and the trees bent in thankfulness for their beautiful covering. It was a morning to make one
thoughtful,--to make one thankful, too, for home and friends and country, and a future that
could be earned, where the white folds of usefulness and purity would cover man's inheritance
of selfishness and passion.

For an hour I watched the big flakes fall; and, as I watched, I dreamed the dream of peace
for all the world. The brazen trumpet of war was a thing of the past. The white dove of peace
had built her nest in the cannon's mouth and stopped its awful roar. The federation of the
world was secured by universal intelligence and community of interest. Envy and selfishness
and hypocrisy, and evil doing and evil speaking, were deeply covered by the snowy mantle that
brought "peace on earth and good will to men."

My dream was not dispelled by any rude awakening. As the house threw off the fetters of the
night and gradually struggled into activity, it was in such a fresh and loving manner and with
such thoughtful solicitude for each member of our world, that I walked in my dream all day.

The snow fell rapidly till noon, and then the sun came forth from the veil of clouds and cast
its southern rays across the white expanse with an effect that drew exclamations of delight
from all who had eyes to see. No wind stirred the air, but ever and anon a bright avalanche
would slide from bough or bush, sparkle and gleam as the sun caught it, and then sink gently
into the deep lap spread below. The bough would spring as if to catch its beautiful load, and,
failing in this, would throw up its head and try to look unconcerned,--though quite evidently
conscious of its bereavement.

The appearance of the sun brought signs of life and activity. The men improvised a snow-plough,
the strong horses floundering in front of it made roads and paths through the two feet of feathers
that hid the world.

After lunch, the young people went for a frolic in the snow. Two hours later the shaking of
garments and stamping of feet gave evidence of the return of the party. Stepping into the hall
I was at once surrounded by the handsomest troupe of Esquimaux that ever invaded the temperate
zone. The snow clung lovingly to their wet clothing and would not be shaken off; their cheeks
were flushed, their eyes bright, and their voices pitched at an out-of-doors key.

"Away to your rooms, every one of you, and get into dry clothes," said I. "Don't dare show
yourselves until the dinner bell rings. I'll send each of you a hot negus,--it's a prescription
and must be taken; I'm a tyrant when professional."

We saw nothing more of them until dinner. The young ladies came in white, with their maiden
shoulders losing nothing by contact with their snow-white gowns. All but Miss Jessie, whose
dress was a pearl velvet, buttoned close to her slender throat. I loved this style best, but
I could never believe that anything could be prettier than Jane's white shoulders.

The table was loaded, as Christmas tables should be, and, as I asked God's blessing on it and
us, the thought came that the answer had preceded the request and that we were blessed in unusual
degree.

After dinner the rugs in the great room were rolled up, and the young folks danced to Laura's
music, which could inspire unwilling feet. But there were none such that night. Tom and Kate
led off in the newest and most fantastic waltz, others followed, and Polly and I were the only
spectators. An hour of this, and then we gathered around the hearth to hear Polly read "The
Christmas Carol." No one reads like Polly. Her low, soft voice seems never to know fatigue,
but runs on like a musical brook. When the reading was over, a hush of satisfied enjoyment
had taken possession of us all. It was not broken when Miss Jessie turned to the piano and
sang that glorious hymn, "Lead, Kindly Light." Jack was close beside her, his blue eyes shining
with an appreciation of which any woman might be proud, and his baritone in perfect harmony
with her rich contralto. The young ladies took the higher part, Frank added his tenor, and
even Phil and I leaned heavily on Jarvis's deep bass. My effort was of short duration; a lump
gathered in my throat that caused me to turn away. Polly was searching fruitlessly for something
to dry the tears that overran her eyes, and I was able to lend her aid, but the accommodation
was of the nature of a "call loan."

As we separated for the night, Jarvis said: "Lady mother, this day has been a revelation to
me. If I live a hundred years, I shall never forget it." I was slow in bringing it to a close.
As I loitered in my room, I heard the shuffling of slippered feet in the hall, and a timid
knock at Polly's door. It was quickly opened for Jane and Jessie, and I heard sobbing voices say:--

"Momee, we want to cry on your bed," and, "Oh, Mrs. Williams, why can't all days be like this!"

Polly's voice was low and indistinct, but I know that it carried strong and loving counsel;
and, as I turned to my pillow, I was still dreaming the dream of the morning.

CHAPTER XXXV

WE CLOSE THE BOOKS FOR '96

The morning after Christmas broke clear, with a wind from the south that promised to make quick
work of the snow. The young people were engaged for the evening, as indeed for most evenings,
in the hospitable village, and they spent the day on the farm as pleased them best.

There were many things to interest city-bred folk on a place like Four Oaks. Everything was
new to them, and they wanted to see the workings of the factory farm in all its detail. They
made friends with the men who had charge of the stock, and spent much time in the stables.
Polly and I saw them occasionally, but they did not need much attention from us. We have never
found it necessary to entertain our friends on the farm. They seem to do that for themselves.
We simply live our lives with them, and they live theirs with us. This works well both for
the guests and for the hosts.

The great event of the holiday week was a New Year Eve dance at the Country Club. Every member
was expected to appear in person or by proxy, as this was the greatest of many functions of
the year.

Sunday was warm and sloppy, and little could be done out of doors. Part of the household were
for church, and the rest lounged until luncheon; then Polly read "Sonny" until twilight, and
Laura played strange music in the half-dark.

The next day the men went into town to look about, and to lunch with some college chums. As
they would not return until five, the ladies had the day to themselves. They read a little,
slept a little, and talked much, and were glad when five o'clock and the men came. Tea was
so hot and fragrant, the house so cosey, and the girls so pretty, that Jack said:--

"What chumps we men were to waste the whole day in town!"

"And what do you expect of men, Mr. Jack?" said Jessie.

"Yes, I know, the old story of pearls and swine, but there are pearls and pearls."

"Do you mean that there are more pearls than swine, Mr. Jack? For, if you do, I will take issue
with you."

"If I am a swine, I will be an æsthetic one and wear the pearl that comes my way," said Jack,
looking steadily into the eyes of the high-headed girl.

"Will you have one lump or two?"

"One," said Jack, as he took his cup.

The last day of the year came all too quickly for both young and old at Four Oaks. Polly and
I went into hiding in the office in the afternoon to make up the accounts for the year. As
Polly had spent the larger lump sum, I could face her with greater boldness than on the previous
occasion. Here is an excerpt from the farm ledger:--

Expended in 1896                            $43,309 Interest on previous account          
2,200

         Total                              $45,509
Receipts                                      5,105

Net expense                                 $40,404 Previous account                      
44,000

                                            $84,404

The farm owes me a little more than $84,000. "Not so good as I hoped, and not so bad as I feared,"
said Polly. "We will win out all right, Mr. Headman, though it does seem a lot of money."

"Like the Irishman's pig," quoth I. "Pat said, 'It didn't weigh nearly as much as I expected,
but I never thought it would.'"

There was little to depress us in the past, and nothing in the present, so we joined the young
people for the dance at the Club.

CHAPTER XXXVI

OUR FRIENDS

After our guests had departed, to college or school or home, the house was left almost deserted.
We did not shut it up, however. Fires were bright on all hearths, and lamps were kept burning.
We did not mean to lose the cheeriness of the house, though much of the family had departed.
For a wonder, the days did not seem lonesome. After the fist break was over, we did not find
time to think of our solitude, and as the weeks passed we wondered what new wings had caused
them to fly so swiftly. Each day had its interests of work or study or social function. Stormy
days and unbroken evenings were given to reading. We consumed many books, both old and new,
and we were not forgotten by our friends. The dull days of winter did not drag; indeed, they
were accepted with real pleasure. Our lives had hitherto been too much filled with the hurry
and bustle inseparable from the fashionable existence-struggle of a large city to permit us
to settle down with quiet nerves to the real happiness of home. So much of enjoyment accompanies
and depends upon tranquillity of mind, that we are apt to miss half of it in the turmoil of
work-strife and social-strife that fill the best years of most men and women.

It is a pity that all overwrought people cannot have a chance to relax their nerves, and to
learn the possibilities of happiness that are within them. Most of the jars and bickerings
of domestic life, most of the mental and moral obliquities, depend upon threadbare nerves,
either inherited or uncovered by friction incident to getting on in the world. I never understood
the comforts that follow in the wake of a quiet, unambitious life, until such a life was forced
upon me. When you discover these comforts for the first time, you marvel that you have foregone
them so long, and are fain to recommend them to all the world.

Polly and I had gotten on reasonably well up to this time; but before we became conscious of
any change, we found ourselves drawn closer together by a multitude of small interests common
to both. After twenty-five years of married life it will compensate any man to take a little
time from business and worry that he may become acquainted with his wife. A few fortunate men
do this early in life, and they draw compound interest on the investment; but most of us feel
the cares of life so keenly that we take them home with us to show in our faces and to sit
at our tables and to blight the growth of that cheerful intercourse which perpetuates love
and cements friendship in the home as well as in the world.

There were no serious cares nowadays, and time passed so smoothly at Four Oaks that we wondered
at the picnic life that had fallen to us. The village of Exeter was alive in all things social.
The city families who had farms or country places near the village were so fond of them that
they rarely closed them for more than two or three months, and these months were as likely
to come in summer as in winter.

Our friends the Gordons made Homestead Farm their permanent residence, though they kept open
house in town. Beyond the Gordons' was the modest home of an Irish baronet, Sir Thomas O'Hara.
Sir Tom was a bachelor of sixty. He had run through two fortunes (as became an Irish baronet)
in the racing field and at Homburg, and as a young man he had lived ten years at Limmer's tavern
in London. When not in training to ride his own steeple-chasers, he was putting up his hands
against any man in England who would face him for a few friendly rounds. He was not always
victorious, either in the field, before the green cloth, or in the ring; but he was always
a kind-hearted gentleman who would divide his last crown with friend or foe, and who could
accept a beating with grace and unruffled spirit.

He could never ride below the welter weight, and after a few years he outgrew this weight and
was forced to give up the least expensive of his diversions. The green cloth now received more
of his attention, and, as a matter of course, of his money. Things went badly with him, and
he began to see the end of his second fortune before he called a halt. Bad times in Ireland
seriously reduced his rents, and he was forced to dispose of his salable estates. Then he came
to this country in the hope of recouping himself, and to get away from the fast set that surrounded
him.

"I can resist anything but temptation," this warm-hearted Irishman would say; and that was
the keynote of his character.

Though Sir Tom was only sixty years old, he looked seventy. He was much broken in health by
gout and the fast pace of his early manhood. But his spirit was untouched by misfortune, disease,
or hardship. His courage was as good as when he served as a subaltern of the Guards in the
trenches before Sebastopol, or presented his body as a mark for the sledge-hammer blows of
Tom Sayers, just for diversion. His constitution must have been superb, for even in his decrepitude
he was good to look upon: five feet ten, fine body, slightly given to rotundity, legs a little
shrunken in the shanks, but giving unmistakable signs of what they had been ("not lost, but
gone before," as he would say of them), hands and feet aristocratic in form and well cared
for, and a fine head set on broad shoulders. His hair was thin, and he parted it with great
exactness in the middle. His eyes were brown, large, and of exceeding softness. His nose was
straight in spite of many a contusion, and his whole expression was that of a high-bred gentleman
somewhat the worse for wear. Sir Tom was perfectly groomed when he came forth from his chamber,
which was usually about ten in the morning.

Those of us who had access to his rooms often wondered how he ever got out of them looking
so immaculate, for they were a perfectly impassable jungle to the stranger. Such a tangle of
trunks, hand-bags, rug bundles, clothes, boots, pajamas, newspapers, scrap-books, B. & S. bottles,
could hardly be found anywhere else in the world. He had a fondness for newspaper clippings,
and had trunks of them, sorted into bundles or pasted in scrap-books. Old volumes of Bell's
Life filled more than one trunk, and on one occasion when he and I were spending a long evening
together, in celebration of his recent recovery from an attack of gout, and when he had done
more than usual justice to the B. & S. bottles and less than usual justice to his gout, he
showed me the record of a long-gone year in which this same Bell's Life called him the "first
among the gentlemen riders in the United Kingdom," and proved this assertion by showing how
he had won most of the great steeple-chases in England and Ireland, riding his own horses.
This was the nearest approach to boasting that ever came to my knowledge in the years of our
close friendship, and I would never have thought of it as such had I not seen that he regarded
it as unwarrantable self-praise.

I have never known a more simple, kind-hearted, agreeable, and lovable gentleman than this
broken-down sporting man and gambler. I loved him as a brother; and though he has passed out
of my life, I still love the memory of his genial face, his courtesy, his unselfish friendship,
more than words can express. A tender heart and a gentle spirit found strange housing in a
body given over to reckless prodigality. The combination, tempered by time and exhaustion,
showed nothing that was not lovable; and it is scant praise to say that Sir Thomas was much to me.

He was just as acceptable to Polly. No woman could fail to appreciate the homage which he never
failed to show to the wife and mother. Many winter evenings at Four Oaks were made brighter
by his presence, and we grew to expect him at least three nights each week. His plate was placed
on our round table these nights, and he rarely failed to use it; and the B. & S. bottles were
near at hand, and his favorite brand of cigars within easy reach.

"I light a 'baccy' by your permission, Mrs. Williams," and a courtly bow accompanied the words.

At 9.30 William came to bring Sir Tom home. The leave-taking was always formal with Polly,
but with me it was, "Ta-ta, Williams--see you later," and our guest would hobble out on his
poor crippled feet, waving his hand gallantly, with a voice as cheery as a boy's.

Another family whom I wish the reader to know well is the Kyrles. For more than twenty-five
years we have known no joys or sorrows which they did not feel, and no interests that touched
them have failed to leave a mark on us. We could not have been more intimate or better friends
had the closest blood tie united us. The acquaintance of young married couples had grown into
a friendship that was bearing its best fruit at a time when best fruit was most appreciated.
We do not consider a pleasure more than half complete until we have told it to Will and Frances
Kyrle, for their delight doubles our happiness.

They were among the earliest of my patients, and they are easily first among our friends. I
have watched more than a half-dozen of their children from infancy to adult life, and this
alone would be a strong bond; but in addition to this is the fact that the whole family, from
father to youngest child, possess in a wonderful degree that subtle sense of true camaraderie
which is as rare as it is charming.

The Kyrles lived in the city, but they were foot-free, and we could count on having them often.
Four Oaks was to be, if we had our way, a country home for them almost as much as for us. Indeed,
one of the rooms was called the Kyrles' room, and they came to it at will. Enough about our
friends. We must go back to the farm interests, which are, indeed, the only excuse for this
history.

CHAPTER XXXVII

THE HEADMAN'S JOB

Our life at Four Oaks began in earnest in January, 1897. Even during the winter months there
was no lack of employment and interest for the Headman. I breakfasted at seven, and from that
time until noon I was as busy as if I were working for $20 a month. The master's eye is worth
more than his hand in a factory like mine. My men were, and are, an unusual lot,--intelligent,
sober, and willing,--but they, like others, are apt to fall into routine ways, and thereby
to miss points which an observing proprietor would not overlook.

The cows, for instance, were all fed the same ration. Fifteen pounds of mixed grains was none
too much for the big Holstein milk-makers, who were yielding well and looking in perfect health;
but the common cows were taking on too much flesh and falling off in milk. I at once changed
the ration for these six cows by leaving out the corn entirely and substituting oat straw for
alfalfa in the cut feed. The change brought good results in five of the cows; the other one
did not pick up in her milk, and after a reasonable trial I sold her.

The herd was doing excellently for mid-winter,--the yield amounted to a daily average of 840
pounds throughout the month, and I was able to make good my contract with the middleman. I
could see breakers ahead, however, and it behooved me to make ready for them. I decided to
buy ten more thoroughbreds in new milk, if I could find them. I wrote to the people from whom
I had purchased the first herd, and after a little delay secured nine cows in fresh milk and
about four years old. This addition came in February, and kept my milk supply above the danger
point. Since then I have bought no cows. Thirty-four of these thoroughbreds are still at Four
Oaks--two of them have died, and three have been sold for not keeping up to the standard--and
are doing grand service. Their numbers have been reënforced by twenty of their best daughters,
so there are at this writing fifty-four milch cows and five yearling heifers in the herd. Most
of the calves have been disposed of as soon as weaned. I have no room for more stock on my
place, and it doesn't pay to keep them to sell as cows. Four Oaks is not a breeding farm, but
a factory farm, and everything has to be subordinated to the factory idea.

My thoroughbred calves have brought me an average price of $12 each at four to six weeks, sold
to dairymen, and I am satisfied to do business in that way. The nine milch cows which I bought
to complete the herd cost, delivered at Four Oaks, $1012.

All the grain fed to cows, horses, and hogs, and a portion of that fed to chickens, is ground
fine before feeding. The grinding is done in the granary by a mill with a capacity of forty
bushels an hour. We make corn meal, corn and cob meal, and oatmeal enough for a week's supply
in a few hours. All hay and straw is cut fine, before being fed, by a power cutter in the forage
barn, and from thence is taken by teams in box racks to the feeding rooms, where it is wetted
with hot water and mixed with the ground feed for the cows and horses, and steamed or cooked
with the ground feed for the hogs and hens.

Alfalfa is the only hay used for the hens, and wonderfully good it is for them. Besides feed
for the hogs, we have to provide ashes, salt, and charcoal for them. These three things are
kept constantly before them in narrow troughs set so near the wall that they cannot get their
feet into them.

We carefully save all wood ashes for the hogs and hens, and we burn our own charcoal in a pit
in the wood lot. Five cords of sound wood make an abundant supply for a year. I think this
side dish constantly before swine goes a long way toward keeping them healthy. Clean pens,
well-balanced and well-cooked food, pure water, and this medicine can be counted on to keep
a growing and fattening herd healthy during its nine months of life.

It is claimed that it is unnatural and artificial to confine these young things within such
narrow limits, and so it is; but the whole scheme is unnatural, if you please. The pig is born
to die, and to die quickly, for the profit and maintenance of man. What could be more unnatural?
Would he be better reconciled to his fate after spending his nine months between field and
sty? I wot not. The Chester White is an indolent fellow, and I suspect he loves his comfortable
house, his cool stone porch, his back yard to dig in, his neighbors across the wire fence to
gossip with, and his well-balanced, well-cooked food served under his own nose three times
a day. At least he looks content in his piggery, and grows faster and puts on more flesh in
his 250 days than does his neighbor of the field. If the hog's profitable life were twice or
thrice as long, I would advocate a wider liberty for the early part of it; but as it doesn't
pay to keep the animal after he is nine months old, the quickest way to bring him to perfection
is the best. One cannot afford to graze animals of any kind when one is trying to do intensive
farming. It is indirect, it is wasteful of space and energy, and it doesn't force the highest
product. Grazing, as compared with soiling, may be economical of labor, but as I understand
economics that is the one thing in which we do not wish to economize. The multiplication of
well-paid and well-paying labor is a thing to be specially desired. If the soiling farm will
keep two or three more men employed at good wages, and at the same time pay better interest
than the grazing farm, it should be looked upon as much the better method. The question of
furnishing landscape for hogs is one that borders too closely on the æsthetic or the sentimental
to gain the approval of the factory-farm man. What is true of hogs is also true of cows. They
are better off under the constant care of intelligent and interested human beings than when
they follow the rippling brook or wind slowly o'er the lea at their own sweet pleasure.

The truth is, the rippling brook doesn't always furnish the best water, and the lea furnishes
very imperfect forage during nine months of the year. A twenty-acre lot in good grass, in which
to take the air, is all that a well-regulated herd of fifty cows needs. The clean, cool, calm
stable is much to their liking, and the regular diet of a first-class cow-kitchen insures a
uniform flow of milk.

What is true of hogs and cows is true also of hens. The common opinion that the farm-raised
hen that has free range is healthier or happier than her sister in a well-ordered hennery is
not based on facts. Freedom to forage for one's self and pick up a precarious living does not
always mean health, happiness, or comfort. The strenuous life on the farm cannot compare in
comfort with the quiet house and the freedom from anxiety of the well-tended hen. The vicissitudes
of life are terrible for the uncooped chicken. The occupants of air, earth, and water lie in
wait for it. It is fair game for the hawk and the owl; the fox, the weasel, the rat, the wood
pussy, the cat, and the dog are its sworn enemies. The horse steps on it, the wheel crushes
it; it falls into the cistern or the swill barrel; it is drenched by showers or stiffened by
frosts, and, as the English say, it has a "rather indifferent time of it." If it survive the
summer, and some chickens do, it will roost and shiver on the limb of an apple tree. Its nest
will be accessible only to the mink and the rat; and, like Rachel, it will mourn for its children,
which are not.

No, the well-yarded hen has by all odds the best of it. The wonder is that, with three-fourths
of the poultry at large and making its own living, hens still furnish a product, in this country
alone, $100,000,000 greater in value than the whole world's output of gold. Our annual production
of eggs and poultry foots up to $280,000,000,--$4 apiece for every man, woman, and child,--and
yet people say that hens do not pay!

Each flock of forty hens at Four Oaks has a house sixteen feet by twenty, and a run twenty
feet by one hundred. I hear no complaints of close quarters or lack of freedom, but I do hear
continually the song of contentment, and I see results daily that are more satisfactory than
those of any oil well or mine in which I have ever been interested.

CHAPTER XXXVIII

SPRING OF '97

Sam began to make up his breeding pens in January. He selected 150 of his favorites, divided
them into 10 flocks of 15, added a fine cockerel to each pen (we do not allow cocks or cockerels
to run with the laying hens), and then began to set the incubator house in order.

He filled the first incubator on Saturday, January 30, and from that day until late in April
he was able to start a fresh machine about every six days. Sam reports the total hatch for
the year as 1917 chicks, out of which number he had, when he separated them in the early autumn,
678 pullets to put in the runs for laying hens, and 653 cockerels to go to the fattening pens.
These figures show that Sam was a first-class chicken man.

We secured 300 tons of ice at the side of the lake for $98, having to pay a little more that
year than the last, on account of the heavy fall of snow.

The wood-house was replenished, although there was still a good deal of last year's cut on
hand. We did not fell any trees, for there was still a considerable quantity of dead wood on
the ground which should be used first. I wanted to clear out much of the useless underbrush,
but we had only time to make a beginning in this effort at forestry. We went over perhaps ten
acres across the north line, removing briers and brush. Everything that looked like a possible
future tree was left. Around oak and hickory stumps we found clumps of bushes springing from
living roots. These we cut away, except one or possibly two of the most thrifty. We trimmed
off the lower branches of those we saved, and left them to make such trees as they could. I
have been amazed to see what a growth an oak-root sprout will make after its neighbors have
been cut away. There are some hundreds of these trees in the forest at Four Oaks, from five
to six inches in diameter, which did not measure more than one or two inches five years ago.

As the underbrush was cleared from the wood lot, I planned to set young trees to fill vacant
spaces. The European larch was used in the first experiment. In the spring of 1897 I bought
four thousand seedling larches for $80, planted them in nursery rows in the orchard, cultivated
them for two years, and then transplanted them to the forest. The larch is hardy and grows
rapidly; and as it is a valuable tree for many purposes, it is one of the best for forest planting.
I have planted no others thus far at Four Oaks, as the four thousand from my little nursery
seem to fill all unoccupied spaces.

Fresh mulching was piled near all the young fruit trees, to be applied as soon as the frost
was out of the ground. Several hundreds of loads of manure were hauled to the fields, to be
spread as soon as the snow disappeared. I always return manure to the land as soon as it can
be done conveniently. The manure from the hen-house was saved this year to use on the alfalfa
fields, to see how well it would take the place of commercial fertilizer. I may as well give
the result of the experiment now.

It was mixed with sand and applied at the rate of eight hundred pounds an acre for the spring
dressing over a portion of the alfalfa, against four hundred pounds an acre of the fertilizer
3:8:8. After two years I was convinced that, when used alone, it is not of more than half the
value of the fertilizer.

My present practice is to use five hundred pounds of hen manure and two hundred pounds of fertilizer
on each acre for the spring dressing, and two hundred pounds an acre of the fertilizer alone
after each cutting except the last. We have ten or twelve tons of hen manure each year, and
it is nearly all used on the alfalfa or the timothy as spring dressing. It costs nothing, and
it takes off a considerable sum from the fertilizer account. I am not at all sure that the
scientists would approve this method of using it; I can only give my experience, and say that
it brings me satisfactory crops.

There was much snow in January and February, and in March much rain. When the spring opened,
therefore, the ground was full of water. This was fortunate, for April and May were unusually
dry months,--only 1.16 inches of water.

The dry April brought the ploughs out early; but before we put our hands to the plough we should
make a note of what the first quarter of 1897 brought into our strong box.

Sold:
   Butter . . . .  $842.00
   Eggs   . . . .   401.00
   Cow    . . . .    35.00
   Two sows . . .    19.00
     Total  . . . $1297.00

Fifteen of the young sows farrowed in March, and the other 9 in April, as also did 18 old ones.
The young sows gave us 147 pigs, and the old ones 161, so that the spring opened with an addition
to our stock of 300 head of young swine.

Between March 1 and May 10 were born 25 calves, which were all sold before July 1. The population
of our factory farm was increasing so rapidly that it became necessary to have more help. We
already had eight men and three women, besides the help in the big house. One would think that
eight men could do the work on a farm of 320 acres, and so they can, most of the time; but
in seed-time and harvest they are not sufficient at Four Oaks. We could not work the teams.

Up to March, 1897, Sam had full charge of the chickens, and also looked after the hogs, with
the help of Anderson. Judson and French had their hands full in the cow stables, and Lars was
more than busy with the carriage horses and the driving. Thompson was working foreman, and
his son Zeb and Johnson looked after the farm horses during the winter and did the general
work. From that time on Sam gave his entire time to the chickens, Anderson his entire time
to the hogs, and Johnson began gardening in real earnest. This left only Thompson and Zeb for
general farm work.

Again I advertised for two farm hands. I selected two of the most promising applicants and
brought them out to the farm. Thompson discharged one of them at the end of the first day for
persistently jerking his team, and the other discharged himself at the week's end, to continue
his tramp. Once more I resorted to the city papers. This time I was more fortunate, for I found
a young Swede, square-built and blond-headed, who said he had worked on his father's farm in
the old country, and had left it because it was too small for the five boys. Otto was slow
of speech and of motion, but he said he could work, and I hired him. The other man whom I sent
to the farm at the same time proved of no use whatever. He stayed four days, and was dismissed
for innocuous desuetude. Still another man whom I tried did well for five weeks, and then broke
out in a most profound spree, from which he could not be weaned. He ended up by an assault
on Otto in the stable yard. The Swede was taken by surprise, and was handsomely bowled over
by the first onslaught of his half-drunk, half-crazed antagonist. As soon, however, as his
slow mind took in the fact that he was being pounded, he gathered his forces, and, with a grunt
for a war-cry, rolled his enemy under him, sat upon his stomach, and, flat-handed, slapped
his face until he shouted for aid. The man left the farm at once, and I commended the Swede
for having used the flat of his hand.

In spite of bad luck with the new men we were able to plough and seed 144 acres by May 10.
Lots Nos. 8, 12, 13, and 14 were planted to corn, and No. 15 sowed to oats, and the 10 acres
on the home lot were divided between sweet fodder corn, potatoes, and cabbage. The abundant
water in the soil gave the crops a fair start, and June proved an excellent growing month,
a rainfall of nearly four inches putting them beyond danger from the short water supply of
July and August. Indeed, had it not been for the generosity of June we should have been in
a bad way, for the next three months gave a scant four inches of rain.

The oats made a good growth, though the straw was rather short, and the corn did very well
indeed,--due largely to thorough cultivation. Twelve acres of oats were cut for forage, and
the rest yielded 33 bushels to the acre,--a little over 1300 bushels.

The alfalfa and timothy made a good start. From the former we cut, late in June, 2¼ tons to
the acre, and from the timothy, in July, 2½ tons,--50 tons of timothy and 45 of alfalfa. Each
of these fields received the usual top-dressing after the crop was cut; but the timothy did
not respond,--the late season was too dry. We cut two more crops from the alfalfa field, which
together made a yield of a little more than 2 tons. The alfalfa in that dry summer gave me
95 tons of good hay, proving its superiority as a dry-weather crop.

Johnson started the one-and-one-half-acre vegetable and fruit garden in April, and devoted
much of his time to it. His primitive hotbeds gradually emptied themselves into the garden,
and we now began to taste the fruit of our own soil, much to the pleasure of the whole colony.
It is surprising what a real gardener can do with a garden of this size. By feeding soil and
plants liberally, he is able to keep the ground producing successive crops of vegetables, from
the day the frost leaves it in the spring until it again takes possession in the fall, without
doing any wrong to the land. Indeed, our garden grows better and more prolific each year in
spite of the immense crops that are taken from it. This can be done only by a person who knows
his business, and Johnson is such a person. He gave much of his time to this practical patch,
but he also worked with Polly among the shrubs on the lawn, and in her sunken flower garden,
which is the pride of her life. We shall hear more about this flower garden later on.

The accounts for the second quarter of the year show these items on the income side:--

Butter             $1052.00
Eggs                 379.00
Twenty-five calves   275.00
                   --------
Total              $1706.00

CHAPTER XXXIX

THE YOUNG ORCHARD

One of the most enjoyable occupations of a farmer's life is the care of young trees. Until
your experience in this work is of a personal and proprietary nature, you will not realize
the pleasure it can afford. The intimate study of plant life, especially if that plant life
is yours, is a never failing source of pleasurable speculation, and a thing upon which to hang
dreams. You grow to know each tree, not only by its shape and its habit of growth, but also
by peculiarities that belong to it as an individual. The erect, sturdy bearing of one bespeaks
a frank, bold nature, which makes it willing to accept its surroundings and make the most of
them; while the crooked, dwarfish nature of another requires the utmost care of the husbandman
to keep it within the bounds of good behavior. And yet we often find that the slow-growing,
ill-conditioned young tree, if properly cared for, will bring forth the finest fruit at maturity.

To study the character and to watch the development of young trees is a pleasing and useful
occupation for the man who thinks of them as living things with an inheritance that cannot
be ignored. That seeds in all appearance exactly alike should send forth shoots so unlike,
is a wonder of Nature; and that young shoots in the same soil and with the same care should
show such dissimilarity in development, is a riddle whose answer is to be found only in the
binding laws of heredity. That a tiny bud inserted under the bark of a well-grown tree can
change a sour root to a sweet bough, ought to make one careful of the buds which one grafts
on the living trunk of one's tree of life. The young orchard can teach many lessons to him
who is willing to be taught; in the hands of him who is not, the schoolmaster has a very sorry
time of it, no matter how he sets his lessons.

The side pockets of my jacket are usually weighted down with pruning-shears, a sharp knife,
and a handled copper wire,--always, indeed, in June, when I walk in my orchard. June is the
month of all months for the prudent orchardist to go thus armed, for the apple-tree borer is
abroad in the land. When the quick eye of the master sees a little pile of sawdust at the base
of a tree, he knows that it is time for him to sit right down by that tree and kill its enemy.
The sharp knife enlarges the hole, which is the trail of the serpent, and the sharp-pointed,
flexible wire follows the route until it has reached and transfixed the borer.

This is the only way. It is the nature of the borer to maim or kill the tree; it is for the
interest of the owner that the tree should live. The conflict is irrepressible, and the weakest
must go to the wall. The borer evil can be reduced to a minimum by keeping the young trees
banked three or four inches high with firm dirt or ashes; but borers must be followed with
the wire, once they enter the bark.

The sharp knife and the pruning-shears have other uses in the June orchard. Limbs and sprouts
will come in irregular and improper places, and they should be nipped out early and thus save
labor and mutilation later on. Sprouts that start from the eyes on the trunk can be removed
by a downward stroke of the gloved hand. All intersecting or crossing boughs are removed by
knife or scissors, and branches which are too luxuriant in growth are cut or pinched back.
Careful guidance of the tree in June will avoid the necessity of severe correction later on.

A man ought to plant an orchard, if for no other reason, that he may have the pleasure of caring
for it, and for the companionship of the trees. This was the second year of growth for my orchard,
and I was gratified by the evidences of thrift and vigor. Fine, spreading heads adorned the
tops of the stubs of trees that had received such (apparently) cruel treatment eighteen months
before. The growth of these two seasons convinced me that the four-year-old root and the three-year-old
stem, if properly managed, have greater possibilities of rapid development than roots or stems
of more tender age. I think I made no mistake in planting three-year-old trees.

As I worked in my orchard I could not help looking forward to the time when the trees would
return a hundred-fold for the care bestowed upon them. They would begin to bring returns, in
a small way, from the fourth year, and after that the returns would increase rapidly. It is
safe to predict that from the tenth to the fortieth year a well-managed orchard will give an
average yearly income of $100 an acre above all expenses, including interest on the original
cost. A fifty-acre orchard of well-selected apple trees, near a first-class market and in intelligent
hands, means a net income of $5000, taking one year with another, for thirty or forty years.
What kind of investment will pay better? What sort of business will give larger returns in
health and pleasure?

I do not mean to convey the idea that forty years is the life of an orchard; hundreds of years
would be more correct. As trees die from accident or decrepitude, others should take their
places. Thus the lease of life becomes perpetual in hands that are willing to keep adding to
the soil more than the trees and the fruit take from it. Comparatively few owners of orchards
do this, and those who belong to the majority will find fault with my figures; but the thinking
few, who do not expect to enjoy the fat of the land without making a reasonable return, will
say that I am too conservative,--that a well-placed, well-cared-for, well-selected, and well-marketed
orchard will do much better than my prophecy. Nature is a good husbandman so far as she goes,
but her scheme contemplates only the perpetuation of the tree, by seeds or by other means.
Nature's plan is to give to each specimen a nutritive ration. Anything beyond this is thrown
away on the individual, and had better be used for the multiplying of specimens. When man comes
to ask something more than germinating seeds from a plant, he must remove it from the crowded
clump, give it more light and air, and feed it for product. In other words, he must give it
more nitrogen, phosphoric acid, and potash than it can use for simple growth and maintenance,
and thus make it burst forth into flower-or fruit-product. Nature produces the apple tree,
but man must cultivate it and feed it if he would be fed and comforted by it. People who neglect
their orchards can get neither pleasure nor profit from them, and such persons are not competent
to sit in judgment upon the value of an apple tree. Only those who love, nourish, and profit
by their orchards may come into the apple court and speak with authority.

CHAPTER XL

THE TIMOTHY HARVEST

On Friday, the 25th, the children came home from their schools, and with them came Jim Jarvis
to spend the summer holidays. Our invitation to Jarvis had been unanimous when he bade us good-by
in the winter. Jack was his chum, Polly had adopted him, I took to him from the first, and
Jane, in her shy way, admired him greatly. The boys took to farm life like ducks to water.
They were hot for any kind of work, and hot, too, from all kinds. I could not offer anything
congenial until the timothy harvest in July. When this was on, they were happy and useful at
the same time,--a rare combination for boys.

The timothy harvest is attractive to all, and it would be hard to find a form of labor which
contributes more to the æsthetic sense than does the gathering of this fragrant grass. At four
o'clock on a fine morning, with the barometer "set fair," Thompson started the mower, and kept
it humming until 6.30, when Zeb, with a fresh team, relieved him. Zeb tried to cut a little
faster than his father, but he was allowed no more time. Promptly at nine he was called in,
and there was to be no more cutting that day. At eleven o'clock the tedder was started, and
in two hours the cut grass had been turned. At three o'clock the rake gathered it into windrows,
from which it was rolled and piled into heaps, or cocks, of six hundred or eight hundred pounds
each. The cutting of the morning was in safe bunches before the dew fell, there to go through
the process of sweating until ten o'clock the next day. It was then opened and fluffed out
for four hours, after which all hands and all teams turned to and hauled it into the forage barn.

The grass that was cut one morning was safely housed as hay by the second night, if the weather
was favorable; if not, it took little harm in the haycocks, even from foul weather. It is the
sun-bleach that takes the life out of hay.

This year we had no trouble in getting fifty tons of as fine timothy hay as horses could wish
to eat or man could wish to see. We began to cut on Tuesday, the 6th of July, and by Saturday
evening the twenty-acre crop was under cover. The boys blistered their hands with the fork
handles, and their faces, necks, and arms with the sun's rays, and claimed to like the work
and the blisters. Indeed, tossing clean, fragrant hay is work fit for a prince; and a man never
looks to better advantage or more picturesque than when, redolent with its perfume, he slings
a jug over the crook in his elbow and listens to the gurgle of the home-made ginger ale as
it changes from jug to throat. There may be joys in other drinks, but for solid comfort and
refreshment give me a July hay-field at 3 P.M., a jug of water at forty-eight degrees, with
just the amount of molasses, vinegar, and ginger that is Polly's secret, and I will give cards
and spades to the broadest goblet of bubbles that was ever poured, and beat it to a standstill.
Add to this a blond head under a broad hat, a thin white gown, such as grasshoppers love, and
you can see why the emptying of the jug was a satisfying function in our field; for Jane was
the one who presided at these afternoon teas. Often Jane was not alone; Florence or Jessie,
or both, or others, made hay while the sun shone in those July days, and many a load went to
the barn capped with white and laughter. The young people decided that a hay farm would be
ideal--no end better than a factory farm--and advised me to put all the land into timothy and
clover. I was not too old to see the beauties of haying-time, with such voluntary labor; but
I was too old and too much interested with my experiment to be cajoled by a lot of youngsters.
I promised them a week of haying in each fifty-two, but that was all the concession I would
make. Laura said:--

"We are commanded to make hay while the sun shines; and the sun always shines at Four Oaks,
for me."

It was pretty of her to say that; but what else would one expect from Laura?

The twelve acres from which the fodder oats had been cut were ploughed and fitted for sugar
beets and turnips. I was not at all certain that the beets would do anything if sown so late,
but I was going to try. Of the turnips I could feel more certain, for doth not the poet say:--

    "The 25th day of July,
    Sow your turnips, wet or dry"?

