The question of what is "school age" for a deaf child is answered very differently by different
people. Most of the state institutions for the deaf in the United States, Canada, and Europe
will not admit children younger than six years of age. Seven years is still the age of admission
in some institutions, but the tendency is to lower the age limit. In some schools children
of five are admitted, in a few those as young as four, and in two or three small schools babies
of two and three are received. Any statement here must, therefore, be taken as only the expression
of the author's opinion, resulting from more than twenty-five years of active teaching, combined
with wide observation.

It would appear that, where home conditions are not bad, either physically or morally, the
proper place for the little deaf child till he is nearly, or quite, five, is with his mother.
Very much can be done for the little one before he is five to prepare him for the instruction
which should be given at that age, but it is possible for the mother to do what is necessary,
and even the simplest home conditions are preferable for very little children to the institutional
environment. It is impossible, in a school of from one hundred to five hundred pupils, to create
a real home environment, such as the very little child should have. It is really a pity that
the child of five should have to be placed in the institutional environment as it at present
exists. If the legislative bodies of our states, and the gentlemen who manage the schools,
could only be induced to adopt the cottage plan of housing in small units, the disadvantages
of institutional life would be enormously reduced.

XVII

ORGANIZED EFFORTS BY PARENTS TO OBTAIN BETTER EDUCATIONAL CONDITIONS

It should be possible for every taxpayer in every state who has a deaf child and who has not
the means or the wish to place that child in a private school, to have the child educated in
a free public school as completely by the speech method as his hearing children are educated
by that method. He should not be compelled to send his child out of the state or else subject
him to the influence of signs and finger spelling, with the probability that he will leave
school a deaf mute. Unfortunately, in many states, this is not possible at present. But if
the parents of deaf children would organize themselves into "Parents' Associations" and send
representatives to the governors and legislative committees; and arrange for demonstrations
by orally educated deaf children from pure oral schools; and carry on an active campaign of
enlightenment and of agitation, the present state of affairs would soon cease to exist.

I wish to make an urgent plea for the energetic efforts of all parents of deaf children to
improve the speech-teaching conditions in their respective localities. At present, very far
from all that is possible is being done to give deaf children a ready command of spoken English,
and a working ability to understand when spoken to. The persons who have the most at stake
in this matter, and who should be most active and persistent in demanding from the school authorities
and legislatures better facilities for the acquisition of speech by deaf children, are the
parents of those children. In each locality these parents should organize into "Parents' Associations."
These local associations should, in turn, be connected by a statewide organization composed
of representatives from each local association. These state organizations could then be combined
by representation in a national organization of all the parents of deaf children in the United
States. Such complete organization once effected, the reasonable demands made in the interests
of better results in speech teaching would quickly be complied with by the respective schools
and the legislatures or boards of directors that control them. The associations could induce
their local papers to aid in a campaign to educate public opinion by printing facts concerning
what is done elsewhere. If all parents of deaf children only knew what might be accomplished,
and were so organized as to permit them to present their wishes forcibly to those able to change
conditions, the deaf child would quickly come into his own.

XVIII

A PERSONAL MATTER FOR EACH PARENT

Let some parent in each locality make it his or her business to get the names and addresses
of all other parents of deaf children in the vicinity. Induce them to come together some evening
and choose a chairman and an executive committee of three. Let these four people make a point
of studying the education of the deaf as conducted in the most advanced communities. Let the
executive committees of the several local associations get together once or twice a year for
a sort of state convention of parents. Let them invite leading educators to address them, and
let them appoint committees to visit schools in other states where different methods are employed.
If such a movement was once started there would be found plenty of subject-matter for discussion,
and plenty of opportunities to work for a betterment of conditions. The author of this little
book would be glad to give any aid in his power to such a movement, and to place the results
of his twenty-five years of experience at the disposal of any parent, or parents' organization.

The first efforts should be directed to inducing, or compelling, the so-called "Combined Schools"
for the deaf throughout the United States to wholly segregate at least a small oral department
from the manually taught pupils. The orally taught pupils should never come in contact during
their school life, either in the shops, dining rooms, playgrounds, or schoolrooms, with those
pupils with whom finger spelling and signs are employed. All employees, whether superintendents,
teachers, supervisors, teachers of trades, or servants, who have to do with the orally taught
pupils should be compelled to use only speech and lip reading (and writing, if absolutely necessary)
under penalty of dismissal for failing to do so. Only by means of such segregation, and the
enforcement of speech as a universal medium of communication, can the appropriations for oral
work be made really productive of good results in what are now called "Combined Schools." This
can be done on a small scale at the beginning, with the little entering beginners. Then if
all beginners are put into this oral department it will gradually grow at the expense of the
manual department, until, after a period of eight or ten years, the entire school will have
become oral.

This is the only method of procedure by which satisfactory results in speech teaching for practical
purposes can be obtained in return for the generous appropriations that the states make. It
has been fully demonstrated by actual operation in the state of Pennsylvania, where the largest
school for the deaf in the world has in this manner been changed from a "Combined School" to
a pure oral school.

All the deaf children in the State of Massachusetts are now taught wholly by the oral method.
If that polyglot and heterogeneous population can be so treated, there is no state in the Union
where the same could not be done if there were the desire and the ambition to do it.

In many states deaf children have been, either by definite statement, or by tacit understanding,
exempted from the enforcement of the compulsory education law. This is all wrong. They need
the protection of that excellent law even more than the hearing child, and if the law for compulsory
education does not, in fact, apply to them, it should at once be amended to do so.

XIX

DAY SCHOOLS

The parents are the ones most interested in this matter, and it is through their efforts alone
that improvement can be brought about. In Massachusetts, New York, New Jersey, Wisconsin, Michigan,
Illinois, Ohio, Washington, Oregon, Texas, Missouri, and California, free public oral day schools
have been established. This movement has reached its highest development in Wisconsin and Michigan.
In Wisconsin there are twenty-four such schools scattered throughout the state, and in Michigan
fourteen. New schools are opened by the Board of Education under prescribed conditions upon
the request of a certain number of parents of deaf children. Such a law should be on the statute
books of every state, and will be when the parents of deaf children organize and demand it.

XX

THE DEAF CHILD AT FIVE YEARS OF AGE

When the little child that has been deaf from infancy is five years of age, he should be placed
in a purely oral school for the deaf, if such a thing is possible.

The child who has become deaf by illness or accident after speech has been acquired, should
be placed under experienced instruction by the speech method at once.

To quote once more from my little book of suggestions to physicians:

"If the proper school for the little hearing child of five did not happen to exist in his immediate
neighborhood, no one would think of insisting upon the necessity of sending the little one
away to a distant boarding school. But that is what must be done in the case of the little
deaf child, if precious and irrecoverable years are not to be lost. It is often a difficult
matter to persuade a mother to sacrifice her own personal happiness and comfort in having the
little child with her, and to look far enough into the future to see that a true and unselfish
love for the child requires her to entrust him to the care of others during those early and
crucial years."

XXI

SCHOOLS FOR THE HEARING AND PRIVATE GOVERNESSES

If no oral day or boarding school is available near at hand, the mother should have the far-sighted
love that is unselfish, and the courage to part with her little five-year-old child during
the months of the school year, and place him in some one of the distant schools where he can
live and be taught in a purely oral environment. There are two alternatives to this, each of
which is sometimes attempted, but both are undesirable. First the mother not infrequently attempts
to have her child educated in the schools for hearing children. This is very unsatisfactory
and even dangerous, for if persisted in it results in wholly inadequate progress, uneven development,
bad speech, irretrievable loss of time, and often in a complete nervous breakdown. This may
not come for some years, but the nervous system, once undermined by the excessive strain of
trying to keep up under impossible conditions, can never be fully repaired. Here is what a
partially deaf woman writes of her experience as a child:

"When I was three and one-half years old scarlet fever left me almost totally deaf. My father
was a physician. He was urged to send me to a school for the deaf, but his medical training
told him that what was needed was association with speaking children, if I were to retain my
speech, for at that time the oral method was unknown in our state. So I went to school with
hearing children. Unless you have been deaf, you will not understand the misery in this statement.
A little, lonely deaf child, I went to a public school, hearing practically nothing of the
teachers' instructions or the pupils' recitations. Of the torture of that deaf childhood I
will not speak. You all know how cruel children may be, and a deaf child among hearing children
often suffers untold torments."

The second alternative is to seek some person who will teach the child in his own home. This,
too, is very unsatisfactory, and involves loss of time and opportunity that can never be recovered.

In the first place, the beginning years of a deaf child's educational life are the most important
of all. They are crucial. It is then he requires the highest skill, the greatest experience,
and the most perfect conditions. The best teachers can seldom, if ever, be induced to teach
a single child in its home. Usually these teachers are more or less inferior. But even the
best teacher in the world cannot do for a little deaf child in his home what she could accomplish
for him in a well-organized and properly conducted school.

Neither the intellect nor the character of the deaf child can be as successfully developed,
after five years of age, by a private teacher in his home as in a good school.

The following elements are essential for the highest educational welfare of a deaf child:

First. The stimulus and incentive of association and competitive companionship.

Second. The contact with more than one mind and more than one speaker.

Third. The avoidance of becoming dependent upon some one as an interpreter, and the cultivation
of independence and self-reliance through constant practice with various teachers.

Fourth. A fully equipped and trained organization, providing a complete and uninterrupted education
under one head.

Fifth. Regularity of life, and the subordination of all living conditions to the highest educational
advantage (a thing utterly incompatible with home conditions).

These most necessary conditions are not possible of attainment through private instruction
in the home. The child who is kept at home and given private instruction too often grows up
to be timid, self-distrustful, and unfitted to cope with the difficulties and oppositions of
the world. He falls an easy prey to temptation and is quickly discouraged by obstacles. Very
often he is selfish, narrow, and overbearing. Not having those about him of his own age and
with the same desires, he has become accustomed to having people yield to his whims and fancies
as child playmates would not yield. He is more or less excluded from the plays and pleasures
of childhood. All those about him have an advantage over him.

On the other hand, the tendencies of the school-bred child are to be simple, natural, and childlike.
His inclination to moodiness and suspiciousness is much less. He is happier. He becomes self-reliant,
independent, and respectful of the rights of others. He is less petulant and more obedient.
The wisest parents do not educate their hearing children at home, nor should they attempt it
with a deaf child.

XXII

IMPORTANCE OF THE BEGINNING

I wish to lay very special stress upon the necessity at the beginning of the most expert and
experienced instruction that is attainable. If circumstances make it impossible to give to
the child the best all the time, then he should have the best at the start rather than later.
Every effort and every sacrifice that are ever going to be made for the child's sake should
be at the beginning of his school training, and not delayed till he is older. The years from
five to eight or ten will determine his future success. If he has poor teaching during these
early years, even the best teaching later will not be able to make up the loss entirely. But
if he has good teaching during the first few years, then less expert teaching later cannot
do him as much harm as it otherwise would. The early years are his most crucial period, and
the best efforts should be expended then instead of when he is twelve or fourteen.

XXIII

AVOID THE YOUNG AND INEXPERIENCED TEACHER

Between the ages of five and ten avoid the young and inexperienced teacher and the amateur
as you would the plague. Unfortunately, the idea is prevalent that any one can teach a little
child, but that it takes experience to teach the older pupils. This is a disastrous fallacy.
Young and inexperienced women are too often quite ready to assume the great responsibility
of teaching a little deaf child. They rush in where angels might well fear to tread. Unfortunately,
parents, and even school superintendents, are often too ready to permit them to do this dangerous
thing.

XXIV

ON ENTERING SCHOOL

Through the courtesy of the Volta Review, in which her article appeared, and of the author,
Miss Eleanor B. Worcester, a teacher of the deaf for many years, and at one time the principal
of a school, I am able to include the following very sensible and valuable advice for the guidance
of mothers when their children enter school.

THE FIRST YEAR AT SCHOOL

BY ELEANOR B. WORCESTER

At last the time has come when you feel that it is best for your boy to study with other children.
And since your own town does not offer him a suitable opportunity, it is necessary to send
the little fellow to one of the well-known boarding schools, where trained and wise men and
women are devoting their thought and energy to giving every advantage of education, comfort,
and happiness to the little people under their care.

You have already decided, after much thought and the writing of many letters--perhaps after
a visit to the school you incline to most--just where it is best that the child shall go.

You have studied carefully all the directions about clothing given in the school catalogue,
and have made sure that every little blouse or stocking has its owner's name written or sewed
fast on it, and that all the small garments are in perfect order and ready for use.

But have you thought how your own attitude toward this change in your boy's life is unconsciously
preparing him either to rebel against and fear school, or to look forward to going there as
one of the most delightful and interesting events of his life?

I know that it is impossible for you to avoid dreading the day when your child must go among
strangers, but I beg you not to let him see what your feeling is. It will take all your resolution
and all your courage to wear not only a cheerful face, but a happy one; but you must make your
boy feel that a very delightful time is coming.

If you go about the necessary preparations as you might if he were going to the show or on
a visit, he will enter into the spirit of things with enthusiasm; but if you once let him find
you crying over his packing he will immediately jump to the conclusion that some dreadful thing
is in prospect, and will be entirely prepared to be frightened at being left at school, and
to break your heart by clinging to you and begging to go home again. And, more than this, he
will be far more likely to be homesick.

So, since you know it is best for him to be in school, and that it is the only possible road
to happiness and usefulness, why not lead him to anticipate the going; to look forward to it
as a treat, and to feel that to be a schoolboy is really the great end of existence?

One of the first steps in this direction will be to help him understand a little what kind
of a place he is bound for.

Very likely the school you have decided on publishes an illustrated catalogue, and weeks before
school opens begin to show him the pictures of the school buildings and grounds, and make him
understand that on a certain day in September, which you mark on the calendar with bright crayon,
you and he will go there. Let him see one of the little white beds where he will sleep after
you return home, the sunny dining room where he will eat his morning porridge and his Sunday
ice cream; the playground full of rollicksome youngsters, with whom he will seesaw and play
tag by and by, and the busy schoolroom, where so many delightful and interesting things are
sure to happen.

