Marian came, and admired. Caroline was to be Amy Robsart, and Clara, Janet Foster; a part her
mother had chosen for her, as more appropriate to a girl not yet come out. Certainly, Tony
Foster would scarcely have recognized his demure little Puritan under the little lace hood,
the purple bodice, and white skirt, at which Clara looked with such exultation; and Janet was
further to be supposed to have taken possession of the Countess's orient neck-pearls, and was
to wear them as the only ornament that could with any propriety be bestowed on her. It happened
that Marian had a remarkably fine set of pearls. She had few jewels of any kind; but these
had been her grandmother's, and there was some tradition belonging to them which no one ever
could remember. Janet's necklace was so much less pretty, that Marian could not help exclaiming
that Clara had better wear hers. Clara demurred, for she knew Marian relied on these pearls
to help out a dress which had seen more than one London party; but it ended in Marian's having
her own way, and being contemptuous at the gratitude with which her loan was received. Yet
she was surprised to find that it was a relief to her that Mrs. Lyddell departed a little from
her cold politeness, and showed herself really pleased and obliged.

Certainly, if Mrs. Lyddell had not in some degree relaxed, those two days would have been very
forlorn. As it was, it was very odd to sit down to dinner with only Mr. and Mrs. Lyddell and
Elliot, and to have no one but Mrs. Lyddell to speak to in the drawing-room. She was glad when
the day came, to have it over; and she was not sufficiently hard-hearted to regret that it
was as fine as could be wished. To High Down they went, and everything was just as Marian had
expected,--every one walked about and idled, and wondered when the shooting would begin; and
when it did begin, no one paid much attention to it except those who were interested in some
of the competitors. Marian watched her pupil anxiously, and Clara, between excitement and nervousness,
shot much worse than if she had been in the garden at home, and went so wide of the mark, that
Marian was ashamed of her. Caroline did better, but not well; and the prize was of course borne
off by Miss Grimley, who was popularly reported to have arrows enough to stock the quivers
of two or three cupids.

Clara ran up to Marian, and walked with her a little while; telling her all that had come to
pass during the last two days,--a great deal of bustle, and merriment, and nonsense, which
Clara seemed to have enjoyed excessively, and of which Marian could have said, "Every one to
his taste." Of Caroline she saw little or nothing; and after wandering about in the rear of
Mrs. Lyddell, and exchanging a great many cold salutations, and colder sentences of small-talk,
she was very glad to find herself once more in the carriage, though it was only to go home,
dine and dress for the ball, and then High Down again.

She wore white, with jet ornaments, and a row of pearls round her hair,--the only thing that
saved her from being rather shabbily dressed than otherwise. However, Mrs. Lyddell had long
since announced that she had done saying anything about Marian's dress, and Fanny had not been
a ladies' maid long enough to grow into a tyrant; so that she had her own way, and no one repeated
to her, what she knew full well, that her white silk was yellow where it swept the ground,
and the lace did not stand out as freshly as once it did.

Mrs. Lyddell and Elliot talked and laughed all the way, quizzing the company very sociably,
and both appearing in the highest spirits. Mr. Lyddell was asleep in his corner; Marian with
her forehead against the window, and her thoughts with Gerald. They reached High Down in the
midst of a stream of carriages; and Marian, in her plain white, had to walk into the ball-room
with Elliot, who had completed his offences in her eyes, by daring to assume the dress of Sir
Philip Sidney. She soon, however, was free of him, for he liked her as little as she liked
him, and moreover had to go and perform his part in the noted Kenilworth quadrille. Marian
was left standing by Mrs. Lyddell, as she usually did, through the greater part of a ball;
for as she never waltzed, there were few dances in which she could take a part. She had made
half the Oakworthy neighbours afraid of her; and Mrs. Lyddell, having found that all activity
in the way of being a useful chaperon was thrown away, had acquiesced in leaving her to herself,
"doing her justice" sufficient by taking her to the ball.

Marian was entertained by the pageant, as she deemed it. It was a very pretty scene, with so
many gay dresses, in the bright light; and it was amusing to recognise her acquaintances in
the wonderful costumes some of them had seen fit to assume. She would have liked some one to
laugh with, at a shepherdess dancing, crook and all; and she highly appreciated a good-natured
old gentleman, who was willing to do anything, however absurd, that could please his friends,
and had come out as my grave Lord Keeper himself, with

  "His bushy beard and shoe-strings green,
  His high-crowned hat and satin-doublet."

Caroline looked more like a beauty than she had ever seen her before. Her fair ringlets and
white neck had a peculiar elegance, set off by the delicate fan-like ruff, and graceful head-gear
of the Countess Amy. The only fault that Marian could find was, that poor Amy never could have
looked as if she had so much mind as Caroline's countenance expressed. As to her partner, Marian
did not behold him with very different feelings, from those with which she would have regarded
the real Earl of Leicester, could she have had one peep at the actual pageant of Kenilworth,
with its outward pomp, masking the breaking hearts beneath. Thereupon she fell deep into musings
on "Kenilworth," which she had read at home, when, so young and unlearned in novels as not
to have a guess at what would happen, when it was all a wonder and fairy-land of delight, and
when poor Tressilian's name of Edmund had been his first charm in her eyes, even before she
loved him for his deep character and melancholy fate. She thought how unlike all this common-place
world was to the world it aped--how far these Raleighs and Sidneys were from being worthy to
usurp the name even for one evening! and as to Tressilian, how impossible to see any face here
that would even shadow her idea of him! And yet she did not know; she might have to change
her mind. There actually was a countenance handsome, thoughtful, almost melancholy enough for
Tressilian himself, with the deep dark eyes, pale, clear, sun-burnt, brown complexion, and
jetty hair that befitted her hero; a short beard and dark dress would have completed him, but
she almost thought it a pity that such a face should appear above a scarlet coat and gold epaulettes.

However, Tressilian had been moving towards the end of the room where she was standing, and
was coming so near that she could not study him after the first; so she turned to speak to
Miss Faulkner, who had finished her quadrille, and just as a polka was commencing, she was
surprised by finding Tressilian himself standing by her, and asking to have the honour of dancing
with her.

"Thank you, I don't dance the Polka," she replied; and as she spoke quick flashes of thought
crossed her thus--"I have not been introduced to him--I have met him before--how horrid of
Tressilian's face to talk of polkas--ha! it is Edmund!"

Edmund Arundel's eye it was that was glancing at her with a look of great amusement at her
bewilderment.

"The next quadrille," he proceeded, in the same ceremonious voice.

"O Edmund, Edmund, I did not know you in the least! Who would have thought of seeing you here?"

"Why not? Did you not know we were asked?"

"Asked? yes; but who would have come who could have helped it?"

"I wanted particularly to see you." Then, after speaking to Mrs. Lyddell, he turned to her
again, and resumed, "But am I not to have the pleasure of dancing the next quadrille with you?"

"If it is any pleasure to you, I am sure you are very welcome."

"In the mean time, what is the meaning of your not being amongst the performers? You used to
be a capital shot."

"I? O, of course I could not shoot before all the world."

"Well, I was in hopes my pupil had been doing me credit; so much so, that I tried very hard
to make that lady with the silver arrow into you, and--" as Marian looked at Miss Grimley's
thin, freckled face, and reddish, sandy locks, and could not help smiling, he continued, "when
that would not quite do, I went on trying to turn each maid of honour into you, till, just
as I gave you up, I saw young Dashwood fixed in contemplation; and well he might be, for there
was something so majestic as could be nothing but Zenobia, Queen of the East, or Miss Arundel
herself."

"Majestic! nonsense! nothing can feel less majestic."

"Then decidedly you are not what you seem."

"I was trying all the time to make you into Tressilian, only your red coat was in the way.
You know I never saw you in it before."

"And so you have given up archery?"

"O, no! I shoot at home; only I cannot make a spectacle of myself,--I hate the whole thing
so much."

"And you would not wear a fancy dress?"

"You see I am in mourning."

"Why, who is dead?"

"Don't you know? Old Mr. Thomas Marchmont."

"Yes, and his great-grandfather likewise! Well, you certainly are inclined to make the most
of your connection with the peerage,"

"Edmund!" and for the first time Marian felt as if she had been making herself more foolish
than magnanimous. He gave his arm and they walked along together. He presently began abruptly,
"What I came here for was to consult you about a plan for Gerald. You see I shall never get
at him unless I have him alone. Now I don't like to take him away from you for the holidays,
but I do not see how it is to be managed otherwise."

"I don't do him any good now," said Marian sadly.

"What I thought of was this; I find I can get leave for two months this summer. Now suppose
I was to take him to Marchmont's grouse shooting place in Scotland, and about among the Highlands
and Islands. Perhaps the pleasure of that excursion would make up for the being carried off
by an awful guardian, and those scrambles might bring him to the old footing with me."

"O it would be very nice to have him with you," said Marian; "but----"

"Well, what is the but?"

"I don't know, only would not taking him home be more likely to revive old associations than
anything else?"

"No," answered Edmund most decidedly; then in a more hesitating manner, as if casting about
for reasons, he added, "I mean he was at home last year--it would not appear so inviting as
this expedition--it would be giving every one a great deal of trouble."

"To have the Manor House set to rights--yes--but just a week at the Parsonage--just to revive
the old feelings with you. For you to teach him how to behave to the Fern Torr people."

"No," repeated Edmund, "it would not do."

He spoke in a manner that made Marian look up in his face with surprise, and exclaim as if
hurt, "Then you are really casting off poor old Fern Torr."

The next moment she was sorry she had said so, for his namesake in "Kenilworth" could never
have worn a more melancholy aspect than he, as he answered in a very low voice of deep feeling,
"I am the last man in the world to be reproached with too little affection for Fern Torr."

Marian was grieved, surprised, confused, but she had no time to find an answer, for the quadrille
was forming, Edmund began a search for vis a vis, and she found herself dancing before she
had made up her mind what she should have said if she could have replied at once; but it was
too late to return to the subject, and she thought it best to begin entirely another, by asking,
the next time they were standing still, how he liked the officers of his new regiment.

"Very much, most of them," replied Edmund; "one or two are particularly nice people."

"Do you like any as well as Captain Gresham or--"

"New friends are not old ones," quickly answered Edmund.

"O no, but if you knew them as well, are there any equally worthy to be liked? I want you to
be comfortable there very much, as it is all our fault."

"Don't say any more of that, Marian. Thank you, I am very comfortable--they are a very pleasant
set."

"Are there any of them here?"

"Yes, three of them."

L'Ete cut short his speech, and when they paused again he began, "I mean you to dance with
Dashwood--there that rosy tall boy standing partnerless behind the lady in a Swiss fly-away cap."

"O I see," said Marian.

"Yes, and don't be high and mighty with him."

"High and mighty, when I am only shy."

"Effects are seen, causes are not equally on the surface."

"O Edmund!"

"Well, he is a very nice right-minded boy, very shy himself; so don't be grand, for I have
a great regard for him, and I want him to have a pleasant evening."

Marian was considerably frightened by being told to be agreeable, the thing which of all others
she thought the most difficult; but she would attempt anything for the sake of obliging Edmund,
and making no answer, consoled herself with thinking how far off the next quadrille was. In
the mean time, whilst she danced in the most business-like and least pleasure-like way possible,
she was pondering on what she had to say on her own account to her cousin, and when the quadrille
was over and he took her to the supper room in quest of ices, she eagerly began, "Then you
think me wrong about my fancy dress?"

"Shall I give your own favourite reply?"

"Don't you think it a good thing to avoid all this folly and expense?"

"And to prove Miss Arundel's lofty contempt for finery and foolery?"

"I do not want to set myself up, but how am I to help thinking all this nonsense?"

"A hard question, since no one attempts to say it is far otherwise; but after all, everything
in this world is nonsense, except as a means of doing right or wrong."

"And you do not think I made this nonsense a means of doing right?"

"If it had been any body else, I should have admired, but I do not trust you. However I know
nothing about it, I cannot judge of the amount of sacrifice. Cream ice or water ice?"

They could not converse any more just then, and in the next polka, Clara, who not being come
out, was not well off for partners, was extremely honoured and delighted by being asked to
dance by Mr. Arundel. When the turn of a quadrille came round again, Edmund, as good as his
word, introduced to Marian his youthful ensign, and she, dreadfully afraid of not obeying Edmund
by being agreeable to his friend, set herself to talk with all her might; told him what some
of the costumes were intended to represent, speculated as to the others, found him very pleasant,
and ended by making him consider his friend's cousin as delightful as she was handsome, and
he had been very much impressed with her countenance. She saw Edmund was well pleased to see
him looking animated and gratified, and the consequence was that she had to dance with another
of his brother officers, and after all it had not been by any means such hard work to be amiable
as she was apt to imagine. At any rate she never liked a ball so well, but then she had never
met Edmund at any other, which might account for it. After the last quadrille, Mrs. Lyddell
summoned her to come home, they took their leave of Caroline and Clara, whom Mrs. Lyddell promised
to fetch to-morrow: Lady Julia was particularly full of empressement and affection, delighted
that dear Caroline had been looking so lovely. She even came out with them to the cloak-room,
where her son was assiduous in shawling Mrs. Lyddell, and all manner of civilities seemed to
be passing among them in a low voice, while Edmund having disengaged Marian's shawl from the
surrounding drapery, said, as he put it round her, "Then it is settled that I take Gerald and
try to do for the best?"

"O if you are so kind--"

"Don's trust too much to it. I will try, which is all I can do."

"No one can do him any good if you cannot."

"Hush! And I must thank you for taking my scolding in such good part."

"I deserved it."

"I have since been thinking you are probably right. I am sure you are in the principle of the
thing. It was the particular application that startled me."

Mrs. Lyddell moved on, the carriage was at the door, they were all in it, Elliot of course
last, and as he threw himself back in his corner and the door was shut, he exclaimed in a satisfied
tone, "Well! he is coming it pretty strong!" Who was coming what? thought Marian, but her suspense
did not last long, for Mr. and Mrs. Lyddell both chimed in with exclamations of satisfaction
which left no doubt that they were delighting themselves in the prospect of seeing Caroline
mistress of High Down. Marian had been in some slight degree prepared for this, she knew Mr.
and Mrs. Lyddell would highly approve, nay, consider such a marriage as fulfilling their highest
expectations, such an establishment as all that could be wished; and depending as she did on
Caroline's principle and right feeling, she was sorry to think how much vexation and worrying
was in store for her. As she sat disregarded and forgotten through that long dark drive, hearing
all the eager gratulations and anticipations of her three companions, regarding a marriage
which she could not think of without a sort of horror, how did she despise them, feel imprisoned,
and long to make her escape. She had not the least doubt as to what Caroline would do; her
rejection of such a man was a matter of certainty; but Marian was vexed with her for having
allowed herself to become so intimate with the Faulkners, and thought she had brought on herself
all the annoyances that would follow.

Tired, irritated, excited, Marian was very glad to escape from the carriage, wish the rest
good night, and run up to her own room. She sat before her glass, slowly brushing out her long
dark hair, and trying to bring home her feverish thoughts, and dwell on what had passed, especially
with Edmund, on whom she had not yet had time to think, and of all those hints of his, as to
her behaviour in this matter. Had he approved it or not? or would he if he had known all the
circumstances? There was something that struck her a good deal in his saying "I cannot judge
of the amount of sacrifice." Had it been a sacrifice to wear a plain dress, to abstain from
archery? It would have been, to Clara, but was it to her? and as she looked at the two grey
volumes, with their store of pretty engravings and pleasant reading which lay on her table,
and thought that they were her own for life, and that Anne Clifford's dress would now be laid
aside and useless for ever after the archery prize, if she had won it, would be worthless,
and the admiration, had she valued it, passed from her ears, she could not feel, for one instant,
that it had been a sacrifice. Then again came his words, "every thing in this world is nonsense,
except as a means of doing right or wrong." Yes, pretty books, pleasant pictures, taste and
intellect were in themselves as little precious as dress and finery, things as fleeting when
compared with eternity, except so far as they trained the soul and the higher faculties which
might endure for ever. She thought of "Whether there he prophecies, they shall fail, whether
there be tongues, they shall cease, whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away." All
was a shadow except that charity which never faileth, a beautiful picture, even as a costly
dress! the way we treat these things alone enduring. Her head throbbed as she tried to be certain
as to whether she had acted right. If the dress had required the money set apart for the poor
she would have been perfectly clear about it, but she knew it need not have done so. Would
her vanity have been gratified? Decidedly not--admiration of her face was so distasteful to
her proud shrinking bashfulness, that she felt it like an insult when reported to her, and
could almost have wished not to be so handsome, if it had not been more agreeable to an artist-like
eye to see a tolerable physiognomy in the glass, when obliged to look there, and besides she
would not but be like the Arundels, and was well satisfied with the consciousness of having
their features, as indeed she would have been if their noses had been turned up and their "foreheads
villainous low." If her vanity was gratified, it was by standing apart from, and being able
to look down on the rest of the world; and as Marian became conscious of this, her mind turned
from it with the vexation of spirit, the disgust and sensation of dislike, and willingness
to forget all about it, that every one is apt to feel with regard to a vanity passed away--something
analogous to the contempt and dislike with which we turn from the withered shreds of tangible
vanity, faded and crumpled artificial flowers, and tumbled gauze ribbon when disinterred from
some dusty and forgotten corner. No feeling is much more unpleasant than the loathing of an
old vanity; and though this of Marian's was not yet old, yet that touch of Edmund's which had
shown her how he regarded her "high-and-mightiness," had made her very much ashamed of it.
Then came the question whether it was, after all, self-will that had actuated her, pride and
self-will, leading her contrary to every one's wishes, where she was not sure that she was
fulfilling a duty. Again, on the other hand, there was this point about the Faulkner family,
her dislike to them was founded on principle; indeed it was not dislike, for she allowed their
agreeableness of manner, it was disapproval; it was determination not to enter into anything
approaching to intimate acquaintance with a man whom she believed to be little better than
an infidel. If Edmund knew this, would not he think her right? But then to be consistent, she
should not have accepted his hospitality in any degree; she ought not to have gone to the ball,
nor ever to have dined at his house. How far was she called on to set her face against him,
how far was she independent, how far was obedience to the Lyddells a duty? This must be for
a question for Edmund another time, and she hoped that Caroline's refusal would put an end
to the intercourse. Nor were these all her reflections. She thought of Edmund and his kindness
to Gerald, and the hopes, nay the confidence which it revived in her, setting her mind fully
at rest about her precious brother, for in spite of Edmund's despondency, she could not help
trusting entirely to the renewal of his influence; for who was like Edmund? Who so entirely
treated, as well as spoke of, the world as nothing except as a means of doing right or wrong?

But then that he should be out of spirits, as she had more plainly than ever perceived to-night,
in spite of the gaiety he had at first assumed, his manner of replying when she pressed him
to go to Fern Torr, and his absolute avoidance of it, struck and puzzled her much as well as
grieved her. She knew his loneliness, and could understand that he might be melancholy, but
why he should shrink from the home he so loved was beyond what she could fathom.

She knew Clara would laugh at her for his having come so many miles on her account. Yes, quite
sure that it was nonsense. Edmund had talked of coming to see her, so openly, he had laughed
at and blamed her so uncompromisingly, that she had no doubt that he had not the least inclination
to fall in love with her. She had the best of elder brothers in him, and he would take care
of Gerald, and, happy in her confidence she fell asleep.

CHAPTER XIV.

  "What is that which I should turn to, lighting upon days like these?
  Every door is barr'd with gold and opens but to golden keys.

  TENNYSON.

Marian was not up much later than usual the next morning, but she had a long time to wait for
the rest of the party. She read, wrote, drew, tried to busy herself as usual all the morning,
but whether it was that she was tired with her ball, or that she was anxious about Caroline,
she did not prosper very much, and grew restless and dissatisfied. She wished she knew whether
she had done right, she wished she could feel that she had been kind and accommodating.

Her head was dull and heavy from the struggle to occupy herself when her mind was full, and
after luncheon she tried to drive her stupidity away by a very long ride. Groom and horses
were always at her service, as a part of Mrs. Lyddell's justice to her, and off she set, in
search of breezes, to the highest and furthest downs, by her attainable. On she went, cantering
fast, feeling her power over her spirited pony, letting the summer sun shine full on her face,
and the wind, when she had ridden where she could meet it, stream in a soft ripple round her
head, like the waves of the summer tide. She rode far enough to attain the object she had proposed
to herself, namely, to look down on Salisbury spire, pointing up in its green valley with the
fresh meadows around it, giving a sense of refreshment, repose and holy influence, which her
eye carried to her mind. Good men had raised that pile, had knelt there, sung in praise there,
and now lay asleep within its grey walls and shady cloisters; men and women who had been to
the full as much wearied and perplexed with sin and worldliness around them as she could ever
feel; they had struggled through, their worn and fainting hearts had rested there, and now
their time of peace was come. Why should it not be so with her?

Ah! but things were changed; in their time there was energy; there were great crimes indeed,
but the Church was active. The bad was very bad, but the good was very good, there were real
broad questions then of right and wrong, not the coldness and frivolity, where all was so worthless
that there was scarce a possibility of caring or seeing which part was the right.

No, Marian would not accuse the time in which she was born, and the station to which it had
pleased God to call her. Mr. Wortley had warned her against that. She had a Church, the one
true holy Catholic Church, as surely and truly, nay, the very same that those men of old had,
and was as much bound to love it, serve it, fight for it in her own way, as ever they had felt
themselves. Life, truth, goodness, there was still, she saw it, knew it, felt it in some; and
though there was little of it in her immediate home, so little as to make her heart faint,
she knew that

  "Israel yet has thousands sealed
  Who to Baal never kneeled."

If there was this frivolity, this deadness and chilliness about these present days, she knew
it was a temptation long since prophesied of, as about to grow on the world "when, the love
of many should wax cold," but the help and the hope were never to fail, and while she might
but grasp after them, she had enough to do, and need not feel faint and weary.

Her ride had done her good, her sensation of bodily lassitude and mental stupidity had been
driven off by the active exercise which had produced a more wholesome kind of fatigue, and
the temper which tended to discontent had partly gone with them, partly been chased away by
reflection in a right spirit. As she was entering the park, Elliot, also on horseback, came
up in time to profit by the same opening of the gate.

"Are you but just come home, Marian?" said he, "I thought I was very late."

"I don't know what o'clock it is, but I see the sun is getting low."

"Have not you been at High Down?"

"No, I have been to Beacon Hill."

"To Beacon Hill! That is a ride! And you have not seen any of them since they came home?"

"No, I have been out all the afternoon."

"Well, I have a notion you will have something to hear. I dare say you have some idea. Catch
a young lady not up to a thing like that."

A cold horror and disgust came over Marian, and she would not make a single inquiry, but Elliot
went on.

"So you will ask no questions? I believe you are in the secret the whole time."

"No, I am not."

"No? You will never persuade me that you are not. Why, what else can you ladies sit up half
the night talking about in your bed rooms?"

Marian despised him too much to deny.

"Then do you really mean to profess," said Elliot, turning full towards her, so as to look
her in the face in what she deemed an impertinent way, "that you cannot guess the news that
is waiting for you?"

For once in her life she could not say "I don't know," and her answer was a very cold "I believe
I do;" while in the meantime she was almost feeling, and quite looking, as if she could have
cut off his bead. His disagreeableness was the one present pain, but behind it was undefined
consternation, for she perceived that, at any rate, he did not think Caroline had refused Mr.
Faulkner.

"You keep your congratulations till it is formally announced," said he maliciously, still looking
at her, though few save himself could have failed to be abashed by the firm, severe expression
of her dark eyes, and lips compressed into all the sternness of the Queen of Olympus.

Happily they were so close to the house that Marian, who would not deign a reply, could avoid
him without absolute rudeness. She threw her rein to the groom, and sprung to the ground before
Elliot had time to offer his assistance, then ran hastily across the hall just as Clara was
coming out of the drawing-room.

"Why, Elliot!" cried Clara meeting her brother, "you have not been riding with Marian?"

"With Marian? No, I thank you! I only met with her at the gate, and have been spoiling your
market."

"You don't mean that you have been telling her?" cried Clara; "O I wanted to have been first."

"Precious little thanks you'll get!" said Elliot; but Clara, without attending to him, flew
up stairs after Marian, who had reached her room, and while Fanny was endeavouring to get her
dressed in time for dinner, was trying to collect her dismayed thoughts. She would not believe
Caroline so foolish, nay, so wicked as to accept him, yet if it could possibly be true, what
in the world should she say or do which way should she look, or how should she answer? In the
midst of her first confusion in danced Clara, with a face full of delight at having something
to tell, then looking blank at Fanny's presence.

"Marian--my dear Marian--what do you think?" was her first eager beginning, then changing into
"How--how late you are--where have you been! I really thought you had been out with Elliot,"
and she laughed.

"I only fell in with him at the gate. I have been to Beacon Hill."

"Have you indeed? O I wish you had come with mamma! So Elliot has been provoking, and told
you," she added, stopping there, and looking significant.

Marian glanced at Fanny, and shook her head. She was very glad she had such a protector, to
give her time to collect her thoughts, but this was not easy, for Clara went rattling on in
an eager discursive way about all sorts of things, the archery, the dancing, the partners,
the dresses, hardly knowing what she said, nor Marian either, fidgeting about, trying to expedite
the dressing, and looking most impatient, till at last Marian, anxious to know what had really
taken place, pitying her eagerness, and willing to have it over, hurried the fastening of her
dress, and arranging of her lace, and told Fanny to leave them.

"O Marian! Marian! what a shame of Elliot to have told you all about it. Did you expect it?"

"He only half told me," replied Marian, "but make haste, Clara, let me hear. Is Caroline really
engaged?"

"Yes--yes--O yes! and every one is so delighted, Lady Julia, and Julia and Louisa, and all!"

"And she has accepted him?"

"O yes to be sure--at least--yes, only you know it is too soon to settle when they will be
married. What a charming wedding it will be, won't it, Marian?--you and I find Julia and Louisa,
and their cousins will be bridesmaids O! how delightful it will be. And then I shall come out."

"But Clara, Clara, don't be wild, do tell me all about it."

"Ah! you see you missed something by not coming to stay there as we did. And to tell you a
great secret, Marian, Louisa says she really believes that it was you that her brother thought
of, when he first accepted Elliot's invitation to come and stay here."

"Nonsense," said Marian, though her colour would rise.

"And he had not seen Caroline then, Louisa says," proceeded Clara, but there she got into an
inextricable confusion, and was not speedy in stammering out of it, having suddenly remembered
that it was no great compliment to tell Marian that Louisa had said how glad they all were
that it was not Miss Arundel. Marian cut the hesitation short by saying, "You have not told
me when it was settled, or how you heard it."

"It was settled last night after you were gone--in the conservatory-- such a pretty place for
a love affair, as Louisa says--at least I mean he asked her, but I don't think she gave him
any real regular answer-- no, certainly she did not."

"Did you know of it that evening?"

"O yes, Louisa and I had great fun in watching him all day, and all the day before, we saw
it all quite plain."

"But did Caroline tell you that night?"

"Yes, of course she did. She could not have kept it from me, you know, for I began to laugh
at her the minute we came up, and asked her if she had not been delightfully employed, and
you should have seen what a colour she grew directly."

"And what did she say?" asked Marian very anxiously, almost hoping it might prove that Caroline's
acceptance might have been taken for granted without having been really given.

"I don't exactly remember what she said, she was very grave and said it was no laughing matter,
or something of that kind, and she walked up and down and begged me to be quiet and let her think."

"Well!"

"Then I begged her only to let me know if he had proposed, and what she had said, and she told
me she had said nothing--she could not tell--she must have time, and then she leant her head
against the side of the bed, and said she wished she knew what to do! And when I tried to cheer
her up, and said how delightful it would be----"

"O Clara, how could you?" broke from Marian.

"Ah! I know you can't bear the Faulkners, but you must now, for they will be your cousins,
you know, Marian. And I assure you I did not say anything silly, I said it was not only that
Mr. Faulkner is handsome and rich, that would not be anything, you know, but he is so sensible
and so agreeable, and kind, and good tempered, and we are all so fond of him, and the Faulkners
all so fond of her, and it would be so very nice to have her close to us, and mamma would be
so charmed. Well, poor dear girl, she did not sleep at all that night, and this morning she
only wanted, if she could, to have sent a note for us to be sent for to come home to breakfast,
but that could not be, you know, and when we came down, Lady Julia was so kind and affectionate,
and kissed her and said she was tired, and took her to lie on the sofa, in the little boudoir.
Lady Julia sat with her there first, and then Mr. Faulkner came, and stayed with her a long,
long time."

"O!" sighed Marian, "was it settled then?"

"Not exactly settled, but somewhere about three o'clock, Mr. Faulkner ordered his horse, and
rode out to find papa, and then Caroline ran up to our room, and bolted the door, and said
she could not let me in, but just then mamma came and went up to her, and it was all joy and
congratulation through the whole house. Mr. Faulkner came back and papa with him. But dear
me, there is the second bell! Come, Marian! O, I do so wish you had been there."

If Marian had been there, perhaps things would not have been exactly as they were at present,
though this was very far from what Clara intended by her wish. Marian had done infinite mischief
by the severity which had weakened the only home influence excepting Walter's which held Caroline
to the right. Caroline respected her extremely, but the confidence and affection which had
been growing up slowly but surely out of that root of esteem, had been grievously dulled and
blighted, and at a most critical time. It had in fact been almost killed down to the ground,
and though the root was a healthy one, and might yet shoot forth again, the opportunity had
been missed when it might have been turned to good account.

Caroline knew Mr. Faulkner not to be a religious man, and her better principles warned her
against him; but on the other hand she really liked his manners extremely, her heart was warmed
towards him by his preference and expressions of affection, and she did not know whether she
loved him already or not, or whether she should allow herself to love him, as he was sure she
could do. She had been used to a world where the service of GOD was not the first object; she
had always lived with men whose thoughts and time were otherwise engrossed, and though she
might regret what she saw, her standard had been lowered, and she was far less inclined to
hold aloof front one whom her conscience did not approve, than if she had been accustomed to
see everything desirable in her own family; in those whom nature and duty obliged her to love
and respect.

By the Faulkners she was greeted with such kindness as to win her heart, and she thought the
power she would enjoy at High Down would enable her to set things on a footing there, on which
she could never place them at home; she could not fail to be happy with Mr. Faulkner; she might
work upon his mind, if he loved her as he said he did. Still there stood the great unanswerable
obstacle, the three words, "It is wrong!" If she stood alone, if there was no family on either
side, she could, she would refuse, but dismay seized on her when she thought of the displeasure,
the persecution at home if she rejected him; on the other hand she shrank from ingratitude
for the kindness of the Faulkners. There was Clara putting her in mind of all that could bias
her in his favour, rejoicing already, saying how all the family would rejoice.

O that interval, that night! if Marian had but stood there with the grave, earnest, heartfelt
voice that repelled all sophistry with the wonted "I don't know," if the dark eyes had been
there to look with contempt on all but the "right," and to fill with tears, the more touching
because so rare, as her tenderness, her deep feeling would have been called out by the sensation
of seeing and aiding a friend to struggle nobly against a temptation, if Caroline had felt
and seen the superiority, the loveableness of real, true, uncompromising regard for right,
and right alone, if she had been by one touch made to partake of the horror Marian felt of
any failure in faith, then all the innate strength and nobleness of her character might have
been awakened, and she would have clung to "the right" at any cost, supported, carried through
by Marian's approval and sympathy, keeping her up to feel that higher approval was with her.

But alas! alas! Marian was at a distance, and her image had at present connected itself with
harshness and haughtiness. She might be good; but such goodness did not invite imitation; she
did not appear half as agreeable as the Faulkners. Caroline turned away from the recollection
of her, was all night and all the morning distressed, undecided, and vacillating; then came
Lady Julia's affection, her lover pressing his suit, she hardly knew what she had said, but
she found her consent was assumed, both families were rejoicing in it, she found herself considered
to be engaged, and she returned home bewildered at all that had passed, flattered, almost intoxicated
with the attention of various kinds paid her by every one, at High Down, and when her wonted
dread of Marian's disapproving eye would return, hardening herself against it with the thought
that Marian could not make every one as Utopian as her own Edmund and Fern Torr, that she was
proud and determined in prejudice, and after all what right had she to interfere? Of Walter,
Caroline did not dare to think.

Marian came down with Clara, wearing a rigid company countenance, expressing more of indifference
than of anything else; she would not look at Caroline lest her eye should seem to judge her,
and only by furtive glances perceived that she looked pale, worn and wearied. There was talk
about the ball going on all dinner-time, but Caroline hardly put in a word, and Marian's were
not many. Directly after dinner Caroline said she was tired, and should lie down till tea-time;
she went and Mrs. Lyddell, taking Marian by the hand, exclaimed, "Now, Marian, I must be congratulated.
I suppose Clara has told you all about it."

"Yes, Clara told me," said Marian, resolved not to offend except where she could not avoid
it without sacrificing truth.

"You could scarcely be surprised," said Mrs. Lyddell. "It has been evident for a long time.
Dear Caroline! Well, I am sure this is a satisfaction! Settled so near home, and family and
connection exactly what could be wished; and so extremely fond of her."

"Yes, Lady Julia is very fond of her."

Mrs. Lyddell was too much rejoiced herself not to take sympathy for granted. The point, on
which Caroline's scruples were founded, and which caused Marian's dislike, had never even occurred
to her: she lived little, or rather not at all, in Marian's confidence, and really did not
know that she disliked the Faulkners more than any one else, since her manners were so universally
distant, that a little ungraciousness more or less was not very visible to a casual observer
like Mrs. Lyddell. That same ordinary coldness and undemonstrativeness which had never thawed
to Mrs. Lyddell was the reason that the entire absence of any expression of gladness or congratulation
was not remarked, or at least only taken as her way, and besides at the bottom of her heart,
Mrs. Lyddell was very much obliged to Marian for the repelling manner which had left the field
to her daughter. So Marian got very well through half an hour's interview, without giving offence;
but she feared the tete-a-tete with Caroline, and resolved as much as possible to avoid it,
since she could do no good, and did not think it right to express her sentiments unless they
were positively called for. Disappointed in Caroline, grieved, giving her up for lost, yet
loving and pitying her, she had rather never meet her again, certainly not have any confidential
intercourse with her.

She need not have feared: Caroline was quite as much inclined to avoid her as she could be
to avoid Caroline; by mutual consent they shunned being left alone together, and talked of
indifferent matters if they were, for there was not familiarity enough for silence. When with
the others Caroline was the same as usual, lively, agreeable, obliging; perhaps, and Marian
thought it strange, a shade gayer than her wont. In her behaviour to Mr. Faulkner every one
agreed that she was exactly the right thing, quiet and sensible, and, as people said, "evidently
so very much attached to him." Marian would have given worlds to know what was passing in her
secret soul, but the right of reading there was gone. What did Walter think? To this also there
was no answer; if he wrote, Marian heard nothing about his letter, and he did not come home.
He was to be ordained in the autumn to a curacy in a large manufacturing town in the north
of England, and in the meantime he was staying there with one of the other curates, helping
in the schools, and learning something of the work before him. There was not a doubt in Marian's
mind that his sister's engagement must be a great sorrow to him, and that this was the reason
why he would not come home, even for a short visit. For Caroline, so really good, right thinking
and excellent as she was, so far above the general tone of her family, wilfully to place herself
in such a situation, to cast away all the high and true principles with which she had once
been imbued, was too sad and grievous to be borne by one who loved her as Marian, did all the
time, and how much worse it must be for her brother?

Yes, little did most of those who saw Marian's unmoved, marble countenance, and heard her stiff,
formal words, guess at the intensity of feeling beneath, which to those who knew her best was
betokened by that very severity; how acutely she was suffering for the future before Caroline,
how strong were the impulses to plead with her once more, how sick and loathing her heart felt
at the manner in which this hateful connection was treated by all around. If that reserve could,
or ought to, have been broken, Marian would have astonished them all.

If her former anxieties about Gerald had been as of old, she really did not know how she could
have endured them in addition to all this; but while she was at ease about him nothing could
quite overwhelm her. And she was very happy about him; Mr. Lyddell had readily consented to
the Highland plan, and Gerald was so enchanted that he forgot all his former fears of Edmund,
saw in him only a fellow-sportsman, and when he wrote to tell his sister of the project, decorated
his letter with a portrait of the holidays, every one of the thirty-seven days represented
in a sort of succession of clouds one behind the other, in each of which Gerald was doing something
delightful,--boating, shooting, bagging his game, and enjoying an infinite variety of sports,
the invention and representation of which did considerable credit to his ingenuity. On the
very day after the Eton election, he met Edmund in London, and they set off together to spend
the time before the ecstatic twelfth of August in visits to the Trosachs, to Fingal's cave
and every other Scottish wonder of note.

Lionel returned alone, and the first thing he said as he skimmed his hat across the hall table
was, "There! thank goodness, I shan't touch a book again these five weeks!" Every one asked
after his eyes, but they told their own story, for they were considerably inflamed, and so
evidently out of order that Mrs. Lyddell herself grew anxious, and the apothecary, Mr. Wells,
was sent for. He spoke of their having been over tried by the school work, advised complete
rest, and sent his mixture to bathe them, which in a day or two reduced the inflammation, made
them comfortable, and restored them to their ordinary appearance, so that all anxiety passed
off again.

Marian, like the others, dismissed the fear, though a flash of apprehension now and then crossed
her mind. She was more with Lionel than the others, they had always been great allies, and
at present were more thrown together than had ever been the case before. Johnny had been appointed
to a ship which was to sail from Plymouth in a very short time, and he only came home for two
or three days, from the school where he had been prepared. Mr. Lyddell took him to London for
his outfit, and then on to Plymouth; Mrs. Lyddell was extremely overset, more so than Marian
had thought her capable of being, for Johnny was her favourite, she regarded him as a victim,
and could not bear to expose him to all the perils of sea and climate.

Johnny however went to Plymouth, and then there was nothing to be desired but that he should
soon sail, that his mother might settle her mind, for in the mean time she was nervously anxious
and restless, and could scarcely give her attention to anything, not even to the Faulkners,
far less to what Marian was observing from time to time about Lionel's eyes.

Now that John and Gerald were away, Lionel was deprived of his wonted companions: Elliot did
not patronize him, and was besides too busy about the races to occasion on his own account
any home sports in which Lionel might have taken a share, so that there was no companionship
for him excepting with the young ladies. Caroline's and Clara's time was a great deal taken
up with the Faulkners, and Marian and Lionel were thus left out by all and almost obliged to
make a coalition.

Lionel haunted the drawing-room in the morning, either talking in the half-rhodomontade, half-in-earnest
fashion of boys of sixteen, or listening if there was any reading aloud going forward. Clara's
readings with Marian and Caroline had well-nigh fallen to the ground now, and Caroline almost
always spent the morning in her own room, but Marian now and then caught Clara and managed
to get her to do something rational. More often, however, the reading was on Marian's part
to Lionel; he liked to hear her read scraps of any book she might have in hand, and she was
very merciful to him in the selection, not being by any means too wise. She read him likewise
the new numbers of the periodical tales, as well as the particulars of the rowing matches and
cricket matches, overcoming for his sake her dislike to touching Elliot's sporting newspaper.
Indeed she had not so forgotten her cricket as not to be very much interested, to enter into
all his notes and comments, and to be as anxious for the success of Eton as he was himself,
so that if she had been called to give an account of her whole morning's work for three days,
she could have said nothing of it but that she had been studying the matches at Lord's.

In the afternoon, if Marian could escape from the drive in the carriage, they walked or rode
together, the latter when it was not too bright a day, for Lionel avoided the sunshine like
an owl; and when in their walks a sunny field, or piece of down had to be passed, he drew his
hat down and came under the shelter of Marian's parasol, as if he fairly dreaded the glare.
He was very apt too not to recognise people whom they met, and now and then made such strange
mistakes about small objects near at hand, that though they were laughed at just at the moment,
Marian thought them fearful signs when she recollected them afterwards, in that half-waking
half-sleeping time when she had learnt to entertain herself with anxieties. Chess or backgammon
was the great resource in the evening, when there was no dining out, and no grand dinner party,
and the number of games Marian played with him were beyond all reckoning. He played, she thought,
more by the touch than the eye, often feeling the head of a piece to satisfy himself whether
it had the king's crown or the queen's round head, the bishop's mitre or the knight's ears,
but he was so quick and ready that it was impossible to tell how far the defect of sight went,
and she could not bear to ask or awaken his fears.

She did not think he had any; she did not believe that he had ever seen quite as well as other
people, and therefore trusted to sight less than most; and his eyes had been so often ailing,
and then better, that he was not likely to take alarm now. If he had, she believed he would
have told her, for he was very confidential with her, and she often thought it a great pity
that no one else had thought it worth while to enter into him enough to find out what a right-thinking,
sensible boy he was, and how affectionate he would be if they would only let him. One day,
when they had been taking a long ride together, he began talking about his intentions for the
future. It arose out of some observation about the value of a tree in a new and an old country.
Marian had been lamenting that no modern houses were ever built with the beautiful patterns
of dark timbers, as we see them in old farm-houses; and Lionel answering that so much wood
could never be afforded in England now.

"No, you must go to a primeval forest for that," said Marian; "and very stupid it is of the
people in the colonies to build houses as bad or worse than ours, when they have all the materials
for nothing."

"Well, I will build a famous house when I emigrate," said Lionel; "a regular model of an old
English farm-house it shall be,--stout, and strong, and handsome,--just to put the people in
mind that they do belong to an old country, after all."

"When you emigrate, Lionel?"

"Yes, I really have a great mind to do so, seriously, Marian," and he rode nearer to her. "I
do think it would be the best thing I could do. Don't you think so?"

"I don't know," said Marian, considering, while his eager face was turned towards her.

"You see," Lionel continued, "we must all do something for ourselves; and I am sure my eyes
will never be fit for study. To be a clergyman is out of the question for me, even if I was
good enough; and so is the law--"

"Yes, yes, certainly."

"Well, then, there is only the army, and there one can't get on without money. Now you know
Elliot has been a monstrous expense to my father of late, and the times have grown so bad,
and everything altogether has gone wrong; so that I think the only thing for it would be for
me to go off to some new part of the world, where, when I once had a start, my own head and
hands would maintain me,--no thanks to anybody."

"I dare say it would," said Marian, rather sadly, "I am sure these are right grounds, Lionel;
but it is a terrible severing of all home ties."

"O, but I should come back again. I should be an Englishman still, and come back when I had
made my fortune."

"O, Lionel, don't be in a hurry to make a fortune; that spoils every one."

"No, no, I am not going to grasp and grub for money; I hate that. Only if the fortune comes,
one does not know how, with cattle, or horses, or lands--O, Marian, think of being an Australian
stockman, riding after those famous jockeys of wild bulls--hurra!" Lionel rose in his stirrups,
and flourished his whip round his head, so as greatly to amaze his steed. "There is a life
to lead in a great place bigger than all Europe, instead of being stifled up in this little
bit of a poky England, every profession choke full of people!"

"Well done, Lionel, you do want a field indeed!"

"So I do. I hate to be fenced up, and in, every way. I should like to break out in some fresh
place, and feel I had all the world before me! Then I'll tell you what, Marian," and he spoke
with infinite relish, "suppose matters got a little worse here, and they were all of them really
in distress!"

"O Lionel!"

"Well, but listen. Then I should like to come home with all this fortune that I had made somehow,
and get them all on their legs again; buy back the estate, perhaps, and give it to papa again;
and then--and then"--his voice quivered a little, and his eyes winked, as if the sun had dazzled
them--"see if mamma would not think me worth something, after all!"

This was the only time Lionel had ever said a word to show that he was conscious of his mother's
disregard of him; and the feeling it called up made Marian's heart so full that she could not
reply. But he wanted no answer, and went on. "Would not that be worth living for, Marian? But,
after all, that is all nonsense," he added, with a sigh; "at least it is all a chance. But
what I really think is, that I should do much better for myself and every one else, in one
of the colonies; and I have a great mind to speak to my father about it. By the by, I wish
Mr. Arundel would come here when he has finished his journey with Gerald; I should like to
talk to him about the Cape. I rather fancy the Cape, because of the lions; and one might have
a chance of a row now and then with the Caffres."

Marian began telling all she could about the Cape, and from that time her tete-a-tetes with
Lionel were chiefly spent in discussions upon the comparative merits of the colonies. One thing
Lionel was resolved on. "I will go somewhere where there is a Church within a tolerable distance,--say
twenty miles; that is a short one for a colony, you know, Marian; for I know I am such a wild
fellow, that I should very soon forget everything good, if I had not something to put me in
mind of it. Or, by the by, Marian, what would be jolly would be to get Walter to go; I dare
say he would, if it was some place where they were very badly off indeed, with plenty of natives,
and all very savage."

Marian understood quite well enough, to agree that it must be some place "very badly off indeed"
to invite Walter, and Lionel greatly enjoyed the further arranging of plans for taking care
of his intended chaplain, whom he meant to save from roughing it as much as possible. However,
this might be regarded as a very aerial pinnacle of his castle, the first foundation of which
was yet to be laid, by broaching the subject to his father. Lionel talked over the proposing
it many times with his counsellor, and at length resolved upon it, with some slight hope that
it might save his eyes from the suffering of another half year at Eton, which, as the holidays
came nearer to an end, he began to dread.

"You see, Marian," he said, "I do not like to give out, when I can help it, for they think
it shirking, and there was a time when I did shirk; but a great many times last half, I was
nearly mad with the aching and smarting of my eyes after I had been reading. And all I did
was by bits now and then; for if I went on long the letters danced, and there was a mist between
me and them."

"I wish you would tell Mr. Lyddell; I am sure it is not fit to go on in such a way."

"I have told Wells," answered Lionel.

A pause--then Lionel said, "I believe papa is in the library; I'll go and speak to him about
the emigration."

Marian was very anxious to hear the result of the conference, but she could not find out anything
just at first as she had to drive out with Mrs. Lyddell and Caroline to make calls. In the
evening, over the game at chess, Lionel told her that his father said he should talk to his
mother about it; and two days after he came to her in the hall, saying, "Come and take a turn
in the plantation walk, Marian; 'tis nice and shady there, and I have something to tell you."

The something was as follows: "Well, Marian, my father was very kind, paid something about
its being a sensible notion, and that he would see about it."

"But are you to go back to Eton?"

"Yes, that must be; and I must scramble on as best I may. It will be better at first, after
all this rest. It is something gained that the whole plan is not knocked on the head at once."

"Then he gives his consent?"

"Why, he says it will be time to think of it in a year or two, and I am too young as yet, which
is true enough; only, I wish I was to be learning farming, instead of torturing my eyes with
what will be no good out there. Then he said, as to giving up the army, I need not think that
was necessary, because it was only that he did not want to have two sons in it, and now Johnny
is otherwise disposed of; and, besides Mr. Faulkner had behaved in such a handsome way about
Caroline's fortune.'

"O!" said Marian.

"Yes, I don't like that at all," said Lionel. "Johnny always was crazy to be a sailor, so he
is all right, and that is not what I care for; but I don't want to be beholden to Mr. Faulkner.
I had rather Caroline had her own money, and not that we should all profit by her making this
grand marriage."

"I should quite feel with you."

"Marian, we have never talked that over; but I know you cannot bear the Faulkners."

"What is the use of asking me, Lionel?"

"O, I know you can't, as well as if you had said so; and I want to know how you could let Caroline
go and do such a thing?"

"I? How could I help it?" said Marian smiling, at the boy's assuming that she had power of
which she was far from being conscious. "Besides, I thought you liked Mr. Faulkner; you, all
of you, did nothing but praise him at Christmas."

"I did at first, not at last," said Lionel. "Besides, liking a man to go out shooting with
is not the same as liking him to marry one's sister."

"By no means!" cried Marian, emphatically. "But what made you think ill of him?"

"Things I heard him say to Elliot when we were out together."

"Did Gerald hear them?" asked Marian, very anxiously, as she remembered what a hero Mr. Faulkner
was in her brother's estimation.

"No, I don't think he did. He certainly was not there the worst time of all,--the time that
gave a meaning to all the rest. Don't you remember that day when Mr. Faulkner drove Elliot
and me in his dog-cart to look at that horse at Salisbury? I am sure I never praised him after
that day. He said what Elliot never would have said himself--never."

"How?" Marian could not help asking, though she doubted the next moment whether it was wise
to have done so.

"Things about--about religion--the Bible," said Lionel, looking down and mumbling, as if it
was with difficulty that he squeezed out the answer. "Now, you know, I have heard," he added,
speaking more freely, "I have heard people make fun with a text or a name out of the Bible
many a time; and though that is very bad of them, I think they don't mean much harm by it.
Indeed, I have now and then done it myself, and should oftener, if I had not known how you
hated it."

"It is a very wrong thing," but I see what you mean,--that some people do it from want of thought."

"Yes, just so; but that is a very different thing from almost quizzing the whole Bible,--at
least talking as if it was an absurd thing to accept the whole of it, I do declare, Marian,
he was worse when he began to praise it than he was before; for he talked of the Old Testament
as if it was just like the Greek mythology, and then he compared it to Homer, and AEschylus,
and the Koran. To be sure he did say it was better poetry and morality; but the idea of comparing
it! I don't mean comparing as if it must be better, but as if it stood on the same ground."

"And did Elliot listen to all this?" said Marian, thinking the poison must have been in rather
too intellectual a form for Elliot.

"He listened," said Lionel. "I don't think he would ever set up to say such things for himself;
but I believe he rather liked hearing them said. I am quite sure this Faulkner will make him
worse than he is already, for all this talk is a hundred times worse than going on in Elliot's
way."

"To be sure it is--a thousand times!"

"But what I want to know is this, Marian? has Caroline got any notion of what sort of a man
she has got? Because if she does it with her eyes open, it can't be helped; but if not, I think
she ought to be warned; for I don't suppose the man is fool enough to talk in this way to her.
Indeed, I think I heard him say that believing is all very well for women."

"Why don't you tell her, then?"

"That is the very thing I had on my mind all these holidays; but I know no one would ever listen
to me. If Walter was here it would be a very different thing, for he is worth attending to,
and Caroline knows that; though she thinks I have no sense at all but for mischief."

"She could not think so, if she heard you speak as you do now."

"Then there is another thing, Marian, and what makes it quite--at least very nearly out of
the question; I don't believe they in the least reckoned on my hearing all this. You know the
man is very good-natured; well, he took me up to go instead of his servant, and I was sitting
back to back with them. I sometimes think my bad eyes have made my ears sharper, for I know
I often hear when other people don't; and so I should not expect they supposed in the least
that I was attending, though I did not miss a word, for I could not help hearing. Now, you
see, I could not possibly go and betray him; and if you were not the safest person in the world,
I would never have told you: only, if somebody could just give Caroline a hint that she is
going to marry an infidel, it would be a pleasant thing."

"A pleasant thing!" repeated Marian. Then she paused, considering, and Lionel waited patiently
while she did so, "I see," she said at last, "that you could hardly tell her of this conversation;
and after all, Lionel, I believe we knew what was quite as bad of him from the first: this
only proves it a little more fully."

"Did you?"

"Yes, Lord Marchmont told me something of it; and I mentioned it to Caroline before he came
here at all."

"O, that is right!" said Lionel, greatly relieved, "then it is no concern of mine; though what
can possess Caroline, I can't think. Is it love, I wonder?"

"I suppose so," said Marian, sighing.

"Well, it is a queer thing," said the boy. "I should have thought Caroline was one to care
about such matters more than I, but perhaps she means to convert him. So! I did think Caroline
was good for something, but it is no affair of mine; and I shall be all the more glad to get
off to New Zealand to be out of the sight of it all."

"It is very sad indeed!" said Marian. "I am sure it will be nothing but wretchedness. Caroline
can blind herself now, but that will not go on."

"And why can't you speak to her, and stop her? She used to mind you. Does she come and talk
about this man as if he was perfection?"

"No," was the sorrowful reply. "She knew from the first my opinion of him, and we never have
any talks now. We never have had one since she was first engaged."

"Whew!" whistled Lionel. "Then she does mean to go and do it, and no mistake! Then I've done
with her, and shan't think about her any more than I can help. If she won't be warned, she
must Lave her own way, and may marry the Grand Turk, if she likes it better." He whistled again,
proposed a ride, and went to order the horses; while Marian, walking slowly to the house to
prepare, did not so much grieve for Caroline, for that was an old accustomed sorrow, as marvel
at the manner in which Lionel had spoken, and wonder where he had learnt the right views and
excellent sense he had displayed. Far was she from guessing the value of such a steady witness
to the truth as she had been from the first hour when Lionel had perceived and maintained "that
she had no humbug in her;" how her cares for her brother had borne fruit in him; how he learnt
from her to reverence goodness, and cleave to the right; and how he looked up to her, because
her words were few, and her deeds consistent. More right in theory, than steady in practice
was Lionel; very unformed, left untrained by those whose duty it was to watch him; but the
seeds had been sown, and be his future life what it might, it could not but bear the impress
of the years she had spent in the same family.

She knew nothing of all this; she only thought, as she watched his quick, bounding run, that
he, the least regarded, was the flower of the flock, with principles as good as Walter's, and
so much more manly and active. For Marian, with all her respect for Walter, could not help
wishing, like the boys, that he had more life and spirit, and less timidity. A little mental
courage would, she thought, have brought him to expostulate with Caroline, instead of keeping
out of the way, and leaving her to her fate. Edmund would not have done so.

CHAPTER XV.

  "It's hame, and it's hame, and it's hame."

  Cunningham.

Edmund and Gerald had promised to spend a few days at Oakworthy, before the one returned to
Portsmouth and the other to Eton; but their plans were disconcerted by an event which, as Clara
said, placed Marian in mourning in good earnest, namely, the death of her great aunt, old Mrs.
Jessie Arundel, who had always lived at Torquay. For the last four or five years she had been
almost imbecile, and so likely to die at any time, that, as it seemed for that very reason,
every one took her death as a surprise when it really happened.

Edmund thought it right that both he and Gerald should attend her funeral. Lord Marchmont,
whose wife stood in the same relationship to her, met them in London, and they all went together
to Torquay, instead of making the intended visit to Oakworthy. Gerald was obliged to return
to Eton on the following day, without coming to Oakworthy; but, to make up for it, he wrote
to his Writer from Torquay, and his letter ended thus,--"Now I have a capital bit of news for
you. Old aunt Jessie has done what I shall venerate her for ever after--left every scrap of
her property to Edmund, except a legacy or two to her servants, a picture of my father to me,
and some queer old-fashioned jewels to you and Selina. The will was made just after I was born;
so it was to make up to Edmund for my cutting him out of Fern Torr. You may suppose how Lord
Marchmont and I shook hands with him. It is somewhere about L20,000; there is good news for
you! He is executor, and has got to be here a day or two longer; but Lord Marchmont and I set
off by the first train to-morrow. I shall look out for Lionel, tell him, in case he is too
blind to see me. Can't you come with him to the station, and have one moment's talk?"

This proved to be possible; and Marian, in the interval between the coming of the post and
the setting off, had time, all the hurry of her dressing, to wonder if she ought to be very
much rejoiced. She did not believe, that even wealth could spoil Edmund, but she did not think
all this would be of much use to him. It did not give him a home, and in fact she thought it
rather a creditable thing to be as poor as he had hitherto been. She had rather have heard
of something to make him look less like Tressilian, than he had done the last time she had
seen him.

She had a pleasant drive with Lionel, who was very glad of any good luck befalling Mr. Arundel,
and presently, after some meditation, broke out as follows:--"My eyes! what miles and miles
it would buy in Australia" and then proceeded to talk all the rest of the way about Australian
bulls.

The meeting at the station was a bright one, though so short, as scarcely to be worth the journey,
if the value of such moments were to be reckoned by their number. There was Lord Marchmont
to be spoken to, as well as Gerald, which broke into the time. Gerald looked very happy and
pleasant. He said Edmund was the best fellow in the world, and that he had been very happy--shot
lots of things--he wished he could stop to tell about it. Then Marian hurried what she had
to say, while Lionel was looking after his luggage. "Gerald, would you just try if you can
do anything to spare Lionel's eyes? When you have the same things to do, could you not read
to him, or something? they seem so much worse, and I am so afraid."

"I'll try," said Gerald, "but I don't think I can do much, and he will never give in."

The bell rang--Lionel ran up--she wished them good-bye, and drove home, happier than when last
she parted there from Gerald, wondering what had happened in his journey with Edmund, and re-assured,
by his free cordial tone. She took up a book and read all the way home.

The next thing that was heard of Edmund was in a note to Mr. Lyddell, saying that he should
come and spend one night at Oakworthy, on his way to Portsmouth; that he hoped to arrive about
one o'clock, and that he should bring Marian her aunt's legacy of the jewels. This was communicated
to her by Mrs. Lyddell, and she could not discover from whence he wrote; she supposed from
London, unless he was still detained in Devonshire. She looked forward greatly to his coming,
as there was so much to hear about Gerald; and she felt, as if she wanted something pleasant,
very much indeed; for, now that Lionel was gone, she found what a companion, interest, and
occupation he had been, and missed him very much. The constraint with all the others, except
Clara, was wearisome: and Clara, though never ceasing to talk, and very affectionately, was
anything but a companion, while poor Caroline kept more than ever aloof, and had a flightiness
of spirits--a sort of gaiety of manner--which, to Marian, seemed to be assumed. This was more
especially the case, after there was an idea of fixing the marriage for some time in the autumn,
and arrangements were talked over. Marian began to have little doubt that she was secretly
unhappy, and grew more and more tender in feeling towards her; while, by an effect of contraries,
her manner became more frigid and severe, in proportion to the warmth within.

Clara wondered a little what Mr. Arundel was coming for, and laughed and looked significant
when Marian said she knew perfectly well; but Marian thought she knew so thoroughly as not
to be in the least disconcerted, though Clara's glances were full upon her when he was announced.
In he came, just at luncheon time; he shook hands with Marian with all his might, and one glance
convinced her that he had not Tressilian's face--nay, that though the sun of Africa had left
its traces, he was more like the Edmund of the olden time, than she had ever seen him since
her father's death. There were a good many people at luncheon that day. Mr. Faulkner was there,
and there were some visitors staying in the house. Edmund was a good way from her, and she
could only hear his voice now and then in the buzz; but it was a very pleasant sound to hear,
and when he laughed, it was his own natural, free, gay laugh, such as it used to be. She was
sure he was very happy, and wondered if it was possible Aunt Jessie's fortune could have made
him so, or whether it could all be the satisfaction of having set Gerald to rights.

As they rose to leave the dining room, he came to her, saying, "Marian, can you have a walk
with me?"

"Oh, yes, I should like it of all things; I will be ready in one minute." And away she bounded,
saying to Caroline, in the boldest and most innocent manner in the world, as if on purpose
to show that she expected nothing, and would not be laughed at, that Edmund had asked her to
walk with him. He waited for her in the hall, and they went out, she scarcely pausing till
they were on the steps, to say, "Well, how did you get on with Gerald? I am sure you made him
very happy."

"We got on famously. He is a very nice fellow; he only wanted a little stimulus the right way.
He is thoroughly open and candid, and I have no fear but that he will do very well."

Marian could not speak for joy, and for gratitude to her cousin; and her heart throbbing with
delight, she walked on, waiting for him to say something more on this most precious of all
tidings. But when he spoke again, it was if he had done with the subject of Gerald. "Marian,
I have something to tell you," He paused--she stood in suspense--he began again. "Marian, I
am going to be married!"

"O!" and the inquiring, joyful, wondering, confident tone of that O, is what nothing can ever
convey. Her eyes were turned full on him with the same eager curiosity, the same certainty,
that he could not do other than the best. He did not speak; but the half smile on his lip was
a full though mute reply to her confidence, that she had only to hear, in order to rejoice
with all her heart; and he held out a note directed to her, in Agnes' writing!

Marian took it, but she was too wild, too delighted, too eager to look at him, and hear him,
to be able to open it. "O Edmund!" was what she said now, and she caught hold of his hand for
an ecstatic shake.

"Yes, thank you, yes. I said I must tell you myself, Marian--my sister."

"O, I never heard anything more delightful in my life," said Marian, with a sort of gasp, as
soon as the overwhelming delight gave her breath. "O, Edmund, Edmund!"

"You have not read her note yet."

Marian tore it open, but there was scarcely any thing to read; it was only--

  "Dearest Marian,--He will have a note to carry you,
  but I can't say anything for bewilderment. I know he will
  tell you all about it, so it is of no use my writing. Are
  not you sorry he should have a wife so far from good enough
  for him?

  "Your affectionate and most amazed

  "AGNES."

Marian held it up to him, smiling. "But of course you have seen it?"

"No, I have not; I suppose she thought I should not carry such nonsense."

"Well, I am sure there is no other person in all the wide world that I could have thought good
enough for you. Agnes! Agnes! O, Edmund, I wish there was any way of not being quite choked
with gladness!"

Edmund smiled, and perhaps he was "choked with gladness" beyond the power of speech; for the
two cousins only proceeded to shake hands again. The next thing that was said was after an
interval. "Marian, you remember our bargain six years ago? Have you grown so very fond of the
Lyddells as to repent of it?"

"O, Edmund, you have not thought of that?"

"Have not we? It was one of the first things we did think of."

"I don't think I can bear to hear of much more happiness," said Marian, in almost a crying
voice. "I am so glad for you that I can't be glad for myself yet. I can't take it all in; it
is too good to be true!"

"Indeed it does seem so. But you agree? Agnes said I must make you agree first of all."

"Don't I? Only I want to enjoy it for you,--it is so beyond everything!"

"Well, wasn't I a wise man to say I would not miss the pleasure of telling you myself?"

"Then do tell me; do let us be rational, if we can. Then you came here from Fern Torr?"

"Yes. Did you not know that?"

"No. I did not hear where you wrote from. How long were you there?"

"I only went on Wednesday."

"Then it was only one whole day! How much you must have had to settle!"

"So much, that we settled scarcely anything."

"Then you don't know when it is to be?"

"No, and Mrs. Wortley talks of having time,--poor Mrs. Wortley, but I don't think I shall take
her away far; I have some notion of looking out for some place close at hand."

"Just what we settled long ago. But O! begin and tell me all, Edmund,--as much as you like
to tell me, at least. I want to know how you first came to think of it." Then, as he smiled,
she added, "I mean, how long you have been thinking of it."

"If you mean how long with any hope, only since I knew of good aunt Jessie's consideration
for me. How long it has been in my mind I cannot tell; certainly before I went to Africa. You
see, Marian," he continued, as if he was apologising, "it was this which made me think it advisable
for me to go, though, as I see now, it was not at all good for Gerald."

"What,--you mean--I am not sure that I understand--"

"Don't you see, Marian, feeling as I did, and knowing how out of the question it was for a
penniless man like me, to think of marrying,--Agnes so young too, and I with everything to
draw me to what had been my only home,--there was nothing to be done but to keep out of the
way, to guard me against myself; and that was easier with seas between. I don't know whether
I did right or not, but I hoped I did, because it cost me something; yet it was a forsaking
of Gerald which might have done much harm, though I hope it has not, as it has turned out."

"I see it all!" said Marian, resting there, because she had not a word with which to express
her honour of his noble conduct.

"You will forgive me now," he added, with a smile, "for what you thought my neglect of home."

"I am only afraid I must often have given you a great deal of pain," she almost whispered.

"Never, except when I thought it right to silence you. It was only too delightful to hear their
very names. You might well tell me that she had grown prettier than ever."

On talked and walked the cousins, over the downs, which had certainly never been trodden by
happier people. At last they recollected that they must return, if they wished to be in time
for the post, and retraced their steps, talking as eagerly as ever. As they were coming near
the house, Marian said, "Does Gerald know?"

"Not yet; I shall write to him to-morrow."

"Is it to be a secret? Of course I should say nothing about it while you are here, but may
I mention it afterwards?"

"They said nothing about secrecy," said Edmund; "in fact I think attempting it, only results
in making one look foolish. Yes, you are welcome to tell whom you please as soon as I am out
of the way. I had rather the Lyddells know."

"Very well; indeed, I don't think I can keep it to myself, it is too much joy."

"Do you expect them to participate in your pleasure at making your escape from them?"

"There is no one to miss me, except, perhaps, Lionel, a little, when his eyes are bad. Caroline
would once have cared, but that is over now, poor thing! There never was a time when I should
have been more glad to get away. O, Edmund, if you would do one thing to oblige me, it would
be, to have your wedding the same day as Caroline's, that I might not be obliged to be at it."

"At which?"

"O, you know!"

"Is it such a very bad affair?"

"O, I am very much grieved about it. The man has no religion at all, you know; at least, if
he has any, it is all natural religion,--anything but the truth."

"Do you really mean that the family have accepted him, allowed this to go on, knowing such
things of him?"

"I don't know how far they see it. I don't think they allow it to themselves, and I don't think
they would understand some of it; as, for instance, when I heard him talking the other day
as if he assumed that Christianity was only a development of people's tendency to believe,--as
fleeting as other forms of faith. It was not very broadly stated, and I don't think I should
have seen it, if it had not chimed in with something I had read; and, besides, I knew what
was in the man."

"How do you know? Not from your own observation?"

"O, no, no; I liked him at first. I could have liked him very much, if Lord Marchmont had not
told me about him, and then I had the key to him."

"And this poor Miss Lyddell?"

"She knew what I did," said Marian, sadly. "But he is very agreeable,--at least he is thought
so,--and they all admired him so much, and paid such court to him, that--Yet I did think better
things of Caroline. Lionel is the only one who has found him out, and he thinks of it just
as I do, O, Edmund, I am sure you would like Lionel."

"How are his eyes?" asked Edmund, as they were coming under the portico, and could not talk
of any of the more delicate subjects. "I thought Gerald gave a very bad account of them; indeed,
I scarcely expected that he could have gone back to Eton."

"I sometimes think," almost whispered Marian, "that it is not he, poor boy, whose eyes are
the worst in the house; but Mrs. Lyddell's head has been so full of Johnny, and Caroline, and
all she has to do, that she will not see anything amiss with Lionel."

"He must be a boy of a great deal of resolution and principle, to have struggled on as he has
clone, by Gerald's account. Ah! I meant to have told you about Gerald, but all our time is gone."

"Never mind, we can talk of him in the evening. There is a corner of mine where I always get
out of the way of the people, and where I have had many a nice talk with Walter, or Lionel,
under cover of Miss Grimley's music. Now where do you like to write your letter? If you had
not rather do it in your own room, there is a nice quiet place in the old school-room, where
I write mine, when the drawing-room is uninhabitable."

Edmund accepted the invitation, partly because he was just so shy of letting his own handwriting
be seen in the address, that he meant to avail himself of Marian's cover. Just as Marian had
finished a note, too joyous to have any sense in it, and containing a promise to write more
sensibly to-morrow, had directed the cover, and told her cousin that he must wind up if he
meant to catch the post, Clara opened the door, gazed, laughed, and was retiring in haste,
when Marian, without a shade of the confusion Clara had hoped for, called her back. "Edmund
came here to write a note," she said, "don't go away."

Edmund made some demonstration about intruding, and wrote the conclusion, at which nothing
but some interruption would have made him arrive, put it into the envelope, gave it face downwards
to Marian, and departed. Now Mrs. Lyddell and Clara were both persuaded that Mr. Arundel had
come for no other purpose than to propose to Marian; and they had been entertaining themselves
during their drive with conversing on the subject; so that Clara was never more surprised and
puzzled in her life than by seeing Marian stand there, smiling, and with beaming eyes, brighter
than ever she had looked before, but without one particle of a blush,--white-faced as ever,
only dancing first on one foot, then on the other, balancing her bonnet on one hand, and with
the other holding the precious letter.

"Well, Marian!"

"Well!" Marian made a pirouette. "I must run and put this letter in the box." And so saying,
away she ran down stairs, up again in a second; then meeting the astonished Clara at the head
of the stairs, she took her round the waist, and fairly waltzed her to her own door, opened
it, threw herself into a chair, exclaimed, "I beg your pardon, Clara; you'll think me mad,
but I'll tell you all about it to-morrow."

Fanny was present, so Clara could do nothing but stare; and lateness, and a dinner-party necessitating
a hasty toilette, she retreated, while Marian contained her raptures as best she could, and
meditated on the delightful life she was to lead with Agnes and Edmund, in some cottage on
the borders of Fern Torr. O happiness, such as she had never known, which seemed to bring back
as much of her home as could ever return,--which would be everything for Gerald! Every care
gone, Edmund happy, Gerald satisfactory, her own exile at an end. Her head almost swain round
with happiness, and she wanted to turn to the glass, to persuade herself that she could be
the same Marian Arundel, wide awake, and yet so very, very happy.

However, it was all future, as far as concerned herself; and that cares were in the world she
was convinced, by her own pang at seeing Caroline, whom she overtook on her way down stairs.
She had no disposition to whirl her round; but there was a softened feeling, belonging perhaps
to the fulness of her own joy, that made her, as she came up with her, put her arm round her,
as she had now and then walked with her in former days. Caroline looked in her face, and drew
the arm closer without speaking. Their faces had always been unlike, but the contrast was stronger
than ever. Marian, with those pale, regular features, plain dark hair, black eyes and eyebrows,
with her mourning dress, and yet with a radiant, irrepressible joy and buoyancy all round and
about her; while Caroline, with her small pretty features, rosy colour, blue eyes, glossy curls,
her pink dress and gold bracelets, was in general air very different, and in countenance how
much more; for the eyes were restless, the smile came rather as if it was called, than as if
it resided naturally on her lip,--the colour of her cheeks, though bright, looked fixed and
feverish; and now and then, there was a quiver about the whole face. How different from the
secure expression of happiness, now and then illuminated, as it were, with some sudden flash
of secret joy, which sat on Marian's broad, serene brow.

They entered the drawing-room together, and from that time Marian was outwardly her own stiff,
distant self, till the promised time in the evening, when Edmund made his way to her in her
corner, where he was greeted by a most sunny look. "Now for Gerald," said she.

Edmund had a great deal to tell about Gerald. He thought him, on the whole, a very nice, amiable,
right-minded boy, who only wanted more training and watching than Mr. Lyddell would or could
give. He had, after a time, been brought to be entirely open and confiding; and this, for which
Edmund seemed to be really grateful to him, and to admire him, was the great point, he had
made Edmund a friend, instead of looking at him as a guardian,--found that he could sympathize,
and had ended by trusting and consulting him. Marian, though wondering how the reserve had
ever been, conquered, felt the relief of knowing that all was safe now, and was not hurt by
his confiding in any one but herself. Edmund really thought it was safe. "I believe I know
the worst of him now, poor fellow," he said, smiling, "and the worst is not much. He has been
going on in a careless, thoughtless way, out of high spirits and imitation, a good deal, and
the consciousness made him keep back from you; he owns that, and is very sorry."

"Does he? dear Gerald!"

"He seemed to feel deeply that he had neglected you; but he said, and very truly, how much
there had been against him,--no one, as he said, to make him mind; and the fellows would have
laughed at him, if they had found out that he attended to his sister."

"Ah! Johnny sowed that mischief long ago!"

"I hope it is not weakness. I do not think it is; for there was manliness in confessing all,
and he seemed to feel the folly strongly."

"Did he tell you about the debts?"

"Yes, and of his own accord. They are nothing in themselves; but he has been allowed too much
money, has had little warning, and his title was against him too. So if we can break off the
habit of extravagance, there is no great harm done. After all, you know, he is very young,
and there is plenty of time to form his character. I am sure he has good dispositions of every
kind, and if he has but resolution, he will be sure to do well,"

"I think there is resolution in his temper. Nothing shakes him when his mind is once made up."

So Marian was very well satisfied on the whole about her brother, and she might justly be so
by Edmund's account. There was nothing to disturb her happiness, and she only doubted whether
she should be able to sleep for it. Her brother restored, as well as everything else!

When bed-time came, Mrs. Lyddell looked at her, as if expecting something more to be said than
"good night," but nothing came,--nothing but the dancing light in the eyes. Clara followed
her to the room, and stood gazing at her. "Why, Marian," at last she said, "can't you tell
me anything about it?"

"No; not till to-morrow."

"O, that is too bad, Marian, when you heard all I had to tell directly."

"I can't help it; I am not at liberty to tell other people's affairs."

"Don't look so grand, Marian, pray. I am sure I thought this was your own."

"So it is in a way."

"In a way? Why, Marian, what an extraordinary girl you are! not your own affair! Well, if you
are impenetrable, I can't help it; but it is not kind, when we all want to congratulate you."

"Stop, stop, Clara!" exclaimed Marian, and now she did blush, "will you be satisfied if I tell
you that it is not what you suppose? You shall hear what it is to-morrow, and then you will
see what nonsense you have been talking."

"What?" cried Clara, "you are not--"

"Don't say it, pray don't! Never was any one further from it. Now do go to bed, Clara, for
I cannot tell you a word more, and keep your curiosity at rest for to-night."

Marian took care not to be caught alone by Clara before breakfast the next morning, and almost
immediately after breakfast, Edmund departed. Marian had been out into the hall with him to
exchange some last words, and Mrs. Lyddell, meantime, was observing to Caroline that she never
knew anything so strange; she thought it was due to herself, however unpleasant it might be,
to claim some confidence from Miss Arundel, on such matters, while living under her care. Marian
came back, however, with her innocent look of delight,--a look so unlike the bashfulness of
a damsel in love, that Mrs. Lyddell felt again doubtful; and before she could speak, Marian
had turned to Clara and said, "Now I will tell you what makes me so happy. Edmund and Agnes
Wortley are engaged, and I am to go and live with them."

"Miss Wortley!" at once exclaimed Mrs. Lyddell and her daughters, in the extremity of surprise;
and then Mrs. Lyddell and Clara asked all the usual questions in haste and eagerness, wondering
within themselves most of all at Marian's full rejoicing, for till now they had never been
able to see that Edmund was really to her only like an elder brother. Caroline scarcely spoke,
only went on nervously with her work. At last, when some interruption had caused her mother
and Clara to leave the room, she laid it down, looked at Marian for a moment or two, then said,
in a trembling voice, "Dear Marian, I am glad you are so happy! I am glad you are to live with
them!" then kissed her, and hastened away before she could answer or return the caress. Her
handkerchief was raised as she closed the door. Marian sat and grieved, for well did she know
all poor Caroline conveyed by that "I am glad you are to live with them." It meant that Caroline
felt that she had given up the esteem and friendship in which they had lived,--that she thought
her own home unfit for one brought from such a sphere as Fern Torr,--that she resigned all
those plans for Clara's good, everything that had been valued between them,--that she looked
not for happiness for herself, and though she had forfeited such affection as once had been
hers, yet she still loved Marian. How could Marian rejoice so much, when such a fate was waiting
for Caroline? Poor Caroline! she contrasted her feelings with those of Agnes, grieved again
over her, and ended by blaming herself for all the coldness and severity of the last six weeks,
requited as it was by so much kind, fond affection.

Yet Caroline was weakly, wilfully doing wrong. How should she behave rightly towards her? O,
why would nothing happen to save her, and break off this mockery of a marriage? But as of this
there seemed little hope,--as the Faulkners were at Oakworthy more than ever, and Mrs. Lyddell
was talking in good earnest of wedding clothes, and bridesmaids, it was a comfort to have these
better hopes to occupy herself with.

Especially did she enjoy the idea of Gerald's rejoicing, and it was very eagerly that she watched
for his first letter of delight. It came as soon as heart could wish; but so mixed are joy
and grief in this world, that even Gerald's letter could not convey unalloyed pleasure, but
filled her with a fresh anxiety,--or more properly, strengthened and realized what had hitherto
been but a vague terror.

  "Eton, Sept. 14th.

  "My dear Marian,--Never was anything better in this
  world than Edmund's plans. I give him infinite credit for
  them; and, as head of the family, he has my full consent.
  I wish they would go and live at the Manor House
  till I am of age,--that would be jolly! Lionel desires me
  to tell you that it is all very well, except your going from
  Oakworthy, and he shall go about the house like a mad
  fury," (here followed his portrait in the character,) "if you
  go before he is off after the blue wild beestes at the Cape.
  His eyes are very bad, and I wish you would tell Mrs.
  Lyddell about them; for I don't believe it is a bit of use
  his staying here, and though I am very glad to help him,
  doing all his work and my own too is more than I can stand.
  It is much worse than last half; then he could see to read,
  though it hurt him; now Greek or small print beats him entirely,
  and he cannot look out a word in the Lexicon. He
  does just manage to write, and he never forgets anything;
  so another fellow and I have dragged him through, this
  week. But it cannot go on so; and as he won't give up or
  complain, I will have something done about it, or he will
  blind himself outright before he has done. I cannot think
  how it is my tutor has not found it out, but I suppose it is
  that Lionel is so sharp, and has such a memory. Do speak
  to Mrs. Lyddell.

  "Your affectionate brother,

  "E. GERALD ARUNDEL"

Marian carried the letter at once to Mrs. Lyddell's dressing-room, but she found that Gerald
had been mistaken in supposing the tutor had not observed Lionel's failing sight: for the same
post had brought a letter from him, which had at length completely alarmed Mr. and Mrs. Lyddell,
and the former was going at once to write to his son to meet him in London, where he intended
to consult one of the first oculists.

This was a great relief. Mr. Lyddell set off, and the party at home comforted themselves with
predictions that all would soon be remedied; Marian and Clara agreeing that it would be very
pleasant to have Lionel at home to walk with them, and to be nursed.

Mr. Lyddell had been gone about two days; Caroline and Clara were at High Down, and Marian
was returning from a solitary ramble in the park, enjoying her last letter from Agnes, when,
as she crossed the lawn, she was startled by finding Lionel stretched on his face on the grass,
just at the turn where some bushes concealed him from the windows. He lay flat, without his
hat, his forehead resting on one arm; while with his hand he tore up daisies and grass, and
threw them hastily over his shoulder, while his whole frame quivered in a convulsive agony
of distress.

"Lionel! Lionel! you come home? What is the matter?" exclaimed she.

"Matter! matter enough, I think," said, or rather muttered Lionel; "There is an end of the
Cape, or anything else."

"How are your eyes?" asked Marian, in consternation.

"Only I am blind for life!" answered Lionel; still hiding his face, and speaking in a sullen,
defiant tone.

Marian, dreadfully shocked, almost beyond all power of speaking or moving, could only drop
down sitting on the grass beside him, and take his hand.

"All neglect, too," he added; then vehemently, "I don't believe, no I don't, there is any pauper's
son in the parish that would have been so used!"

Her voice was low with fright: "But, Lionel, what has happened? Let me see you. Is it worse?
can't you see?"

"O yes, I can see now, after a fashion, at least, but that is soon to go, they say, and then--They
have done it themselves, and they may have that satisfaction!" added he, with a fearful bitterness
in his tone. "Elections, and parliament, and dinners, and that Faulkner,--that is what they
have given my sight for." He withdrew his hand, and turned his shoulder from Marian, as if
resolute not to be comforted; and again he shook with agony.

"O, don't say such dreadful things, dear Lionel! O, if I could but do anything for you!" she
cried, in a tone of heartfelt grief, which seemed to soften the poor boy a little; for he twisted
round, so that his face, still pillowed on one arm, was half raised to her, and she could see
how flushed it was, and that the eyelids were inflamed, though not with tears, and the eyes
themselves had not altered from their former appearance.

"'Tis not your fault," he said. "If my mother had cared for me one quarter--"

"Don't blame anybody, pray!" interrupted Marian: "it only makes it worse. Only tell me all
about it. Did the occulist say--"

"Not to me," answered Lionel; "not the worst, at least. He examined my eyes very closely, and
asked me all manner of questions about what I could see, and what I could not, and what things
hurt them, and how long it had been going on, and how I had been using them. Then he told me
that it was impossible for him to do anything for them as yet, till the disease had made more
progress; that most likely I should quite lose my sight this winter, and then I must come to
him again. So that was bad enough, but I could have made up my mind to that, and they sent
me away. Then it seems that, after I was gone, he went on about it to papa, and told him that
the mischief had been brewing time out of mind, and some time ago it might have been stopped;
but all that straining of my eyes at Eton, last half, had done immense harm, and confirmed
the disease; and it is of a kind that--that--there is no cure for!" He buried his face again.

"Did Mr. Lyddell tell you this?"

"No, he only told me we were to go home directly, and wrote to Gerald to send my things from
Eton. He hardly spoke a word all the way,--only led me about, and poked me in and out of the
carriage, as if I was blind already; it put me almost in a rage. Then as soon as we came home,--about
half an hour ago, I should think,--he told it all straight out to my mother, did not mince
matters, I assure you: indeed, I believe they both forgot I was there. They are apt to forget
me, you know. He regularly stormed about the neglect, and told her it was all her fault; and
while this was going on, I found I had heard the worst, and I did not want to be pitied, so
I came out here. And so there is the whole story for you, Marian, and a pretty one it is! A
fine sort of life I shall have instead--"

"Well but, Lionel," cried Marian, eagerly, "are you sure that be said for certain that it was
hopeless? for it seems so odd that he should have told you one thing, and Mr. Lyddell another."

"Pshaw! I suppose he had got some consideration, and did not want to knock me down with the
worst at once."

"I should think it was more comfortable to know the worst at once!" said Marian, meditatively,
"so as to be able to settle one's mind to it."

"A pretty thing to settle one's mind to," said Lionel, "to know I must be a good-for-nothing,
dependent wretch all my days! As well be a woman, or an idiot at once! There, I shall never
see that tree green again; no, and spring--I have seen my last of that! and I may look my last
at all your faces. Johnny I shall never see again."

Ho was crying bitterly now,--almost choking with tears; and Marian's were flowing too. She
was much distressed at the present moment; for though the weeping was likely to relieve him,
she feared it might be doing harm to his eyes, and she did not know in the least whether it
ought to be checked, or, indeed, how to check it. Grieved and in great consternation she was,
in truth, for she was very fond of Lionel, and full of such strong sympathy and compassion,
as to be perfectly incapable of expressing it, in the slightest degree. But he knew her; she
had been the only person who had ever been uneasy about his sight, and this went for a great
deal with him: so that, with all her undemonstrativeness, there was no one whom he could have
liked so well to have near him in that moment of dire despair. "O, I am so sorry!" expressed
infinitely more than the simple words.

"You see, Marian," said he, raising himself, and struggling with the sobs of which he was ashamed,
"I could bear it better if I had not had such a scheme for my life, and my father consenting
too. Australia, and those wild cattle, and that glorious Bush life, always galloping in the
plains; and now to be condemned to be moping about here, for ever, in darkness and helplessness.
O, to think of the plans we have made, all come to an end for ever!" and again he was weeping
violently.

"They might have been stopped otherwise," said Marian, catching at any possible idea that might
answer, or seem to console him; "you know you might have been ill, or met with an accident,
and had a great deal to suffer."

"I would suffer anything rather than lose my eyesight! You don't know what you are talking of."

"Then just suppose this complaint had come on, in some lonely place out in the wilds, with
no one to take care of you."

"It would not, I should have had no Greek to put my eyes out."

"And after all, dear Lionel, you know----;" there she was choked--"you know that--" and she
was choked again--"you know where it comes from."

"I know what you mean," he said; "and if it did--But it is my mother's neglect; there is the
bitterness of it. Why, you and my father tried to stir her up to it in the spring, and she
would not; and then, when for very shame she must attend, what does she do but let me go muddling
on with that old woman Wells! She has regularly thrown my sight away, as much as if she had
pulled my eyes out and thrown them over the hedge."

"No one could ever have guessed--"

"I tell you she might have guessed. Any other mother in the world would have been frightened
years ago, long before I went to school. If it had been Elliot or Johnny, wouldn't she have
had half the doctors in London? but what did she ever trouble her head about me?"

"Now, Lionel, that must not be said. You know it is wrong, and I am sure you will see how sorry
she is, and how it was really not having time."

"I dare say she is sorry--I should hope so--now it is too late, and she has done it."

"But why will you accuse any one?" said Marian, sorely perplexed, and secretly sharing all
his indignation against Mrs. Lyddell. "You know it only embitters you and makes it all worse;
and after all, even if man had actually done the mischief, it still would ultimately be sent
from Heaven."

"I don't see that that makes it any better," murmured Lionel.

"O don't you, Lionel?" said she earnestly; "doesn't it make you sure it is for the best?"

"I don't know what I have done to be so punished," went on Lionel to himself; "I have not always
been good, but I have tried, and more lately, to do right; there are many much less steady
than I, who--"

"Yes, yes, Lionel, but perhaps it is not as good for them to be prosperous. Indeed, indeed
I am quite sure, though I don't understand it all, or see the way, that if you will but bear
it rightly, you will be glad, if not before, yet at least when you die, even of this terrible
affliction."

"I almost wish I was dying now!" said Lionel gloomily, "if I could but die the last day that
I am to see the sky and everything, instead of droning on in the dark, a burthen to myself
and every one else, for I don't know how long, forty, fifty, sixty years perhaps. You know,
Marian, I am only sixteen--"

There was a burst of tears again, and Marian felt herself an unsuccessful comforter, nor did
she wonder at it, for she could not fancy that anything could relieve the sense of such a misfortune
as poor Lionel's, except the really high source of consolation, and that as yet only by faith,
which might make him take it on trust as the best in the end, though for the present he must
feel all the misery. She had no time to answer him again, for the garden door opened, and at
the sound he dashed away his tears, sprang to his feet, and assumed a firm, cold, would-be
indifferent look, as Mrs. Lyddell came out and advanced towards them. Marian thought her looking
flushed and agitated, and her voice certainly betrayed more emotion than had ever been shown
in it, except when bidding Johnny farewell.

"Lionel, my dear, sitting on the damp grass? You will certainly catch cold! I have been searching
for you everywhere, but I am glad you were with Marian. I wanted to ask you, my dear, whether
you would like to have your own room or Walter's," added she, wandering on as if anxious to
say what was kindest, yet dreading to come to the subject nearest their hearts.

"My own, thank you," bluntly answered Lionel, "I'll and unpack." He brushed hastily by her,
and ran into the house up stairs, his roughness contrasting with her affectionate tone. She
looked at Marian, and saw the trace of tears on her eyelids, and her own lip quivered while
her eyes filled, and she said in a trembling voice, "Poor dear boy! has he been telling you?
Does he know it all?"

"Yes," said Marian, anxiously, "but is it really so very bad? Is there no hope?"

"No hope? Who said so?" exclaimed Mrs. Lyddell quickly.

"He did," said Marian; "he said Mr. Lyddell told you so."

"Was he there?" exclaimed she: "Ah! that was Mr. Lyddell's strong way of putting things! So
unfortunate--forgetting all about him. Poor fellow! I must go to him directly, and tell him
it was no such thing."

"What? how? O do tell me!" cried Marian, turning and hurrying with her, and speaking with,
such earnestness that Mrs. Lyddell could not doubt of her sympathy now. She slackened her pace,
and explained that what the surgeon, had said was, that there was confirmed disease, and of
a very serious character, but the precise nature could not be ascertained till it had made
greater progress, and it was then possible that it might prove capable of removal.

Mrs. Lyddell was resolved that neither herself nor any one else should believe anything but
what was most hopeful. She could not have borne it otherwise. She really was far from being
indifferent to any of her children, though multiplicity of occupation, and thoughts, engaged
on what she considered the welfare of the family, had prevented her from being properly attentive
to all, and she was so accustomed to uninterrupted prosperity, as to have almost forgotten
that there was such a thing as anxiety or misfortune. Lionel, neither the eldest nor the youngest,
healthy, and independent, neither remarkable for beauty nor grace, just unruly enough to be
provoking, and just steady enough to be no cause of anxiety, had been as much a cipher in the
family as a One lively boy could be; but though slow to be roused into anxiety, she felt it
with full force when it came, all the motherly affection, which while secure had appeared dormant,
revived, she was dreadfully shocked, and would have been utterly overwhelmed by the accusation
of neglect, had it not been for her sanguine spirit. In this temper she represented all to
Marian in the most cheering light, and hastened up stairs to do the same to Lionel. Marian,
relieved and hopeful, was waiting to collect some properties of hers, to carry to her room,
when she met Mr. Lyddell. She went up to greet him, and thinking that he looked very mournful,
there was more cordiality and fellow-feeling in her way of addressing him than ever there had
been before, though she simply said "Good morning" and shook hands.

"You have heard about it, Marian?" said he. "Has he been with you, poor fellow?"

"Yes," said Marian, "he is in his own room now."

"Ah! you spoke long ago," said Mr. Lyddell; "I wish we had attended to you."

"It was Edmund who remarked it," said she.

"Ay, ay, and senseless it was not to attend. Then it seems that something might have been done,
at any rate he would not have gone on injuring them with his work at Eton, but now it is as
good as a lost case. Poor fellow!"

"O!" exclaimed Marian, thrown back again, "I thought there was a hope that it might not prove
to be the worst."

"There is just a shade of chance that it may turn out otherwise, and that, your mother--Mrs.
Lyddell I mean--takes hold of, but I have not the slightest hope. The surgeon said, it had
all the appearance of a confirmed case, such as cannot be removed."

Marian stood aghast, and Mr. Lyddell, with a sort of groan, most painful to hear, passed her,
and shut himself into his study. The only thing she could think of doing, was to pour out her
dismay and compassion in a letter to Gerald, and she repaired to the schoolroom for the purpose
of writing, but she had not been there long, before Lionel came in, and sat down astride on
the music-stool, just as he used to do, but with a very different expression of countenance
from the wild, reckless spirit of merriment which used to possess him. He sat and meditated
for a little while, then exclaimed, "Marian, whom have you seen since I left you?"

"Nobody but Mr. and Mrs. Lyddell."

"Did you hear papa say anything about it?"

"Yes, a little."

"Did he say what the doctor thought of it?"

"Yes."

"Tell me the very words," and he leant his elbows on the table, looking at her fixedly.

"Ah! Lionel, can you bear it? They are so very sad."

"Tell me them, I say."

Marian looked down, as if she could not bear to meet his countenance, and faltered as she repeated
them.

"Ay!" said Lionel, springing up, and flinging himself round passionately, "I knew it was humbug
all the time!"

"What? How? O Lionel, what have I done?"

"As if I was a fool or a baby, to be fed with false hopes," proceeded Lionel, sitting down,
and hiding his face on his crossed arms on the table; "she might have let that alone, she has
done me mischief enough already."

"Lionel," said Marian, firmly and gravely, for she was really shocked at his tone, "you must
not come to me, if it is to speak in such a manner of your mother."

"Very well," said Lionel coldly, rising up to leave the room, then pausing just as his hand
was on the door, "I thought you did feel for me, Marian."

"O Lionel, dear Lionel," and she sprang to him, to lead him back to his seat, but he still
retained his hold of the lock and would not move; "you know"--her tears were flowing--"you
know how I grieve for you; but if you are in trouble, that ought not to make you do wrong,"
He was turning the lock, and hardened his face, but Marian went on, "Don't go, Lionel, only
hear me. Mrs. Lyddell is very unhappy about you, and I am sure you must see yourself, that
if she blames herself for any want of care, her only comfort must be in hoping for the best,
making the most of this little ray."

"Then you think there is a ray!" interrupted Lionel.

"So far as that nothing is certain, but I am afraid it is so slight, that you had much better
not trust to it, but settle your mind to bear whatever may come."

"Very easy talking! If you had but to do it!" cried Lionel, impetuously wrenching the door
open in spite of her gentle resistance, and running off determinately, leaving her, poor girl,
in great despair, at having so completely failed either in comforting, softening, or bringing
him to any kind of resigned feeling, having besides vexed him, made him think her unkind; and
though this was unintentional, and might be better for him, just contradicted what his mother
wished him to believe.

Her distress was too great even for writing to Gerald, and she walked up and down, thinking
what to do, longing to find him some better comforter, and offering up many a prayer for him,
till at last she heard Caroline and Clara come home, and remembering that happen what might,
she must dress for dinner, up she went, heavily and sorrowfully.

As soon as she was dressed, she went to Clara's room, feeling that this would be but kind.
Clara was not there, and she hesitated whether to go on to Caroline's, once her frequent resort.
At that instant, however, both sisters came up together, and hastened to her. "O Marian Marian!"
exclaimed Clara.

"You know all about it, I suppose," said Caroline.

"Yea, indeed I do."

"Come in here," said Caroline opening her door; "I want to know about him, poor fellow, and
how he bears it. Have you seen anything of him?"

Marian told all she could, without betraying what was confidential, and did her best to soften
Lionel's conduct, by which his sisters evidently had been disappointed, saying that he had
scarcely chosen to speak to them. Marian explained what was on her mind, how she had, without
intending it, flatly contradicted Mrs. Lyddell's cheering assurances, regretting it much, as
injustice towards Mrs. Lyddell, but of this, Caroline thought little.

"Mamma is always sanguine," she said, "and it was only her colouring that made Lionel think
her account hopeful. It must be better for him, poor fellow, to know the truth, than to have
his mind unsettled with vain hopes. O dear! O dear! how sad it is, and at his age too! It breaks
one's heart to think of it."

All coldness and distance had left Caroline's manner in speaking to Marian, and this was a
great comfort, in the midst of their troubles.

A very uncomfortable time it was, which thus commenced. Lionel was a good boy on the whole,
with right principles, and some seriousness of mind, but he was far too undisciplined to meet
patiently such a trial as this. He had pride, and a high spirit, and this made him assume a
bearing, which was a good deal admired in the family, trying to carry it off with a high hand,
never openly uttering a word of complaint, and seeming as if he would rather die than directly
express the miserable despairing feelings within, though, poor boy, he little knew how evidently
they showed themselves in his gloomy silence, his outbreaks of temper, and his almost desperate,
defiant spirit of independence.

His father and mother, not understanding him in the least, managed, in the revulsion of feeling
which made him now the first object in the family, to try his temper perpetually. He had in
former times, missed their demonstrations of affection, though healthy, high-spirited, and
by no means sentimental, the craving had been only occasional, he had done very well without
them, and had gained habits of freedom incompatible with being petted. He had never been used
to be interfered with, and could not understand it at all; and that remembrance of past neglect
embittered all his feelings.

Mr. Lyddell had just found out, as Marian had thought long ago, that Lionel was the flower
of his flock, the one of his sons, who alone united spirit and steadiness, for the emigration
scheme had shown a degree of sense, enterprise, and consideration which had at the time pleased
and surprised him, and now added much to his sense of the promise lost. He laid all the blame
of the neglect on his wife, but he did not lament it the less keenly. His extreme kindness
and solicitude for the boy, were, to those who compared them with his general character, quite
affecting, but unluckily they displayed themselves is a way which harassed Lionel very much,
for he treated him as if he fancied him completely blind already, cautioned him, guided him,
and looked anxious, if he did but walk across the garden alone; whilst Lionel, who could see
quite well enough for all ordinary purposes, was teased, reminded of his troubles, and vexed
above measure by having notice attracted to his defect of sight.

In the main, however, he owned that his father was kind, and sorry for him, though each particular
instance annoyed him; but it was much worse with his mother, for her petting was more minute,
more constant, and such as would have been worrying to any boy in full health, even if it had
not, as in poor Lionel's case, been connected with the dark future, and with a past, which
had sadly soured him against her. He was always rough and morose with her, rebelling against
her care, never wakening into affection, or showing pleasure in what she proposed, though she
continued to press on him her attention, with uunwearied assiduity.

His sisters were treated much in the same manner; Clara made him cross with over care, and
Caroline, though showing better judgment, and much real tact and affection, was also kept at
a distance, and often harshly answered. Marian too, was quite sufficiently like a sister to
come in for many an unreasonable fit of rudeness, and temper when it was perfectly impossible
to find any means of pleasing him.

Indeed such unoccupied days as his were in themselves a trial of good humour. Idleness was
very pleasant in the holidays, but his was too active a spirit to bear it for long together,
especially when it left room for such anticipations as those for which his hopes of a Bush
life were exchanged, Yet he treated offers of reading to him as insults, and far less would
he endure to learn any occupation that might serve him when his sight should be quite gone;
he professed to hate music, and lounged about disconsolately in the house or garden. Now and
then, if he found the young ladies reading on their own account, he would be beguiled into
listening and being amused, and their ingenuity was often exercised in appearing to be doing
it naturally, and he sometimes took part in conversation, and thus had his attention withdrawn
from his misfortune; but it was not often that his moodiness of manner could be charmed away,
unless strangers were present, when he thought it a point of honour to seem at his ease and merry.

After luncheon, he liked best to ride, but against this, Mr. and Mrs. Lyddell set their faces,
persuaded that it must be very dangerous. This, Lionel thought the height of unkindness; he
could ride just as safely as in the holidays; and it was too cruel to make him give up the
one pleasure he best liked, while he was still able to enjoy it, and though not sufficiently
familiar with them to attempt any remonstrance, he became doubly discontented and sullen. He
would not walk with the girls, but wandered far away over the downs by himself, often not coming
back till very late, and till both his parents had been in some alarm. At last, after about
a week, Marian ventured to expostulate; she prevailed, and he was allowed to resume his rides,
under a restriction that it must never be alone. Now, taking a servant with him was an avowal
of his misfortune which he never would endure; so Marian, who never in her life was afraid
of what any horse could do, became his companion, and rode out with him a good deal, feeling
him indeed a charge, but not nearly so heavy a one as her cousins fancied.

Still, though not afraid of accidents to him or to herself, these rides were almost a subject
of dread to Marian, daily as was their occurrence, for it was then that poor Lionel made up
for the reserve he exercised with all the rest. If she could have done him any good, it would
have been a different thing, but surely, the world did not contain, as she thought, a worse
comforter than herself; for day after day, answer as she would, came the same sad strain of
regrets, and laments over vanished plans, repelling every attempt at leading him to resignation,
and only varied by the different moods in which he would sometimes look on his case as hopeless,
and sometimes be angry with her for assuming that it was so. Still worse were the complaints
of his parents, in which he would indulge after each fresh provocation, or rather, what he
thought so, though she never gave him the least encouragement to talk in this manner, argued
for them, and often blamed him; yet do what she would, he never was convinced. The same battle
on some other ground was sure to recur, often the next day, and Marian, right as she knew she
was, never felt as if she had the victory; for five times out of six, it was in a surly, impatient
manner that he turned away from her, as they dismounted. She often wondered whether she ought
to let him go on thus, whether it was right in her, if it did him harm, by confirming all his
unpleasant feelings, or whether it might not be worse for him to let them rankle in his heart
instead of pouring them out. It seemed too unkind to silence him, when he fancied such talk
a comfort, and she was the only person in his confidence, yet what was right? what was good
for him? Her head ached with the self debate; she felt positively worn and depressed, with
the continued useless, harassing conversations; she knew he was beyond her management, yet,
with all her doubts, she was too tender-hearted to vex him; she let him go on and only combated
each point, instead of refusing to listen.

Why would not Walter come home, the only true comforter Lionel was likely to find, whom he
really respected and loved? Walter was by this time ordained, yet he did not propose coming
home; indeed Marian had not even heard whether he had written, and she was inclined to think
he could not have been informed of the state of things at home.

At length, when Lionel had been at home nearly a month, there came one morning a letter directed
to him. His mother and Clara both offered to read it for him, but he gruffly refused, glanced
it over, and put it in his pocket. He loitered through the morning, and rode with Marian in
the afternoon. As they happened to meet with some entertaining subject of conversation, the
ride was more cheerful than usual, and she hoped she had escaped the ordinary discussion; but
when he helped her to dismount under the portico, he said, "Don't go in just yet. Come and
take a turn in the plantations."

Her heart sank at the task that was coming, but she would not disappoint him, and gathering
up her habit, she followed his quick steps. As soon as they were out of sight of the house,
he produced the letter, saying, "Here, read me this."

"O! I was in hopes that you could."

"I thought I could at first, but it was only 'my dear Lionel,' that I could read. It was all
haze after that. There is a step In these three weeks," he added in a voice meant to be manly
and careless. "Come, let us hear. 'Tis from Walter, is not it?"

The letter had been written on first receiving intelligence of Lionel's condition, which had
been communicated by his father when he had to write about something else. Marian, as she read,
rejoiced in the letter, it was so exactly what she wanted to have said, and yet never could
venture on, about regarding the affliction as a cross, and bending to bear it patiently. She
had often felt that here was the best relief, but she had never dared to set it openly before
Lionel, fearing that her awkwardness, and his waywardness, might lead to his saying something
scornful, which would be worse than all. Here it was put before him in just the right way,
and one to which he must attend, and she watched eagerly for some token of the way in which
he took it.

He made no remark, however, seeming to hear it as a matter of course that Walter would say
something of the kind. After asking if she was certain she had read all, and pointing to a
few crossed lines at the head of the first page, to make sure that she had not missed them,
he only said, "Then there is not a word about coming. Well, I do think he might come when he
knows that after this time I shall never be able to see him."

"I don't suppose he thinks of that," said Marian--"I mean perhaps he would not think of your
caring for the mere sight of him as a pleasure."

"He does not know then," said Lionel, "I am trying to learn all your faces, and I don't think
I shall forget them."

"I am sure if he guessed you wished for him he would come that instant."

"I am not going to ask him," said Lionel proudly.

"What, I really think, is the reason of his stayin away," said Marian, hesitating, "is about
Mr. Faulkner. I think more especially now he is a Clergyman, he will not have anything to do
with him."

"Ay, ay," said Lionel, "that is a reason good for something. I only should like to do the same,
except that if I was Walter I would have done more long ago, instead of just keeping out of
the way, and told Caroline it was a regular shame, and she ought not to be taken in with his
fine speeches, and balls, and stuff."

"I don't know--" said Marian.

"What don't you know?"

"How far even Walter would be authorised to interfere about what Mr. and Mrs. Lyddell approve."

"Don't talk nonsense, Marian. If a thing is right, it is right, if it is wrong, it's wrong,
and all the world ought to try to prevent it. I know I would, if anybody would mind me, for
it makes me sick to see that man come into the room, and the fuss mamma makes with him. I think
he grows worse. I declare I'd as soon see her marry Julian the Apostate! I am so glad he is
gone to those races. I should like to ask Caroline what sort of happiness she expects with
a man that talks of the Bible as if it was no better than the Iliad! I only wish he would talk
so to her, perhaps that would shock her."

"I don't think she is very happy," said Marian.

"I am sure she ought not to be," was the answer.

"The more talk there has been of fixing the day the more unhappy she has looked," said Marian.
"You know she has begged the Faulkners to let it be put off a little longer, because she could
not bear that it should be while you are in this doubtful state."

"I did not know it," said Lionel, "and much good does it do me! A nice life I shall have with
no one but Clara to speak to! And when is your marriage, Marian? Mr. Arundel's, I mean, for
that is as bad."

"O that will not be till next summer," said Marian: "Mrs. Wortley wishes Agnes to be twenty-one
first, and Edmund has to build a house."

And Marian was ready to forgive them for the delay when she saw how glad it made Lionel look.
Yes, rejoiced as she must be to escape from Oakworthy, she could not go without a chequered
feeling. If she was adroit at managing people, she would make Clara take the place she held
now with Lionel, which would be good for both, but she was far too clumsy to bring that about;
and O! what a refuge Fern Torr would be after all this harassing life! It would be better for
Lionel not to have her to divert his confidence from his own family, and at any rate she should
be there to help him through this sad autumn of uncertainty. Then would come the peace, rest,
and guidance she had longed for all her life, in her own home, and that hope might well cheer
her through life.

CHAPTER XVI.

  "The brass, by long attrition tried,
  Placed by the purer metal's side,
  Displays at length a dingy hue,
  That proves its former claim untrue;
  So time's discerning hand hath art
  To set the good and ill apart."

Lionel's affliction had certainly tended to lessen the gulf which the engagement with Mr. Faulkner
had made between Caroline and Marian. Caroline was very anxious about her brother, and knowing
that Marian had his confidence, was continually coming to her for reports of his state of mind
and spirits, and with despairing questions as to what was likely to please him,--questions
which Marian was quite unqualified to answer, and which were curious, since she had no tact,
and Caroline had a great deal.

Thus it came to pass, that nightly sittings by each other's bed-room fire were renewed, and
long consultations took place, always at first about Lionel, but sometimes branching to things
in general, even as in the olden time. Caroline was, however, very unlike what she had been
a year ago, when as Marian full well remembered, they had first talked of Mr. Faulkner's visit.
She was gayer in public, but her spirits were very low when alone with Marian; and now and
then the conversation flagged, till she sat for full half an hour, her head on her hand, without
a word. At first she would try to excuse such a reverie, by calling herself very tired; but
as days went on, and it recurred, she smiled as she woke from it, and told Marian "it was such
repose to be with a person who would let her be silent."

There was much confidence in such silence. Marian began to grow even more sorry for her than
at first, because it was impossible to continue to be angry; and tried in every way to show
her kindness, becoming, unconsciously, much more demonstrative in affection than ever she had
been before. On the day on which Lionel received the letter mentioned at the end of the last
chapter, Caroline came into Marian's room at dressing-time; and after lingering about a little,
she said, "Could Lionel read that letter to day?"

Marian shook her head sadly.

"He brought it to you, then?" sighed Caroline, "Ah! I saw who it came from."

She looked wistfully at Marian, as if longing to hear something of the letter, though she would
not ask; and Marian, though much touched, was determined against saying one word about it,
however indifferent, as she felt that, without Lionel's consent, she ought to be as mute as
the paper it was written upon. Caroline paused, then continued, "Do you think he will ask you
to write his answer for him?"

"No, I think not. You know he wrote a note to Gerald in one of my letters the other day. I
dare say he will always be able to write; Mrs. Wortley has a blind friend who does."

Caroline did not answer, but gazed at the fire for almost ten minutes. At last she said, "Poor
Walter! I wonder what he is doing."

"I am sure he must be making himself very useful," said Marian.

"That is one thing we may be sure of," said Caroline, smiling mournfully. "Walter is excellent
wherever he is; but O, Marian," continued she, in a voice of inexpressible sadness, "who would
have told me, a year ago, that all I should hear of Walter's ordination would be in the newspaper?"

Marian could make no answer but some sound expressive of sorrow.

"He has only written to me once since--since June!" proceeded Caroline, in the same utterly
dejected tone.

Then Walter had remonstrated, which was a great comfort to Marian, by restoring him to his
place in her estimation. Still she maintained her expressive silence, and Caroline went on
after another interval. "You and he have been consistent from the first, Marian."

At that moment Fanny came in, and no more could be said, for Marian was obliged to dress for
dinner in a hurry. She took an opportunity of saying to Lionel that evening, something about
the pleasure it would give Caroline if he would tell her about his letter.

"What! you have been telling her about it?" said he, in a tone of great vexation; "that is
always the way with women--no trusting them!"

"No, indeed, Lionel, I said not one word; but she saw it was Walter's writing."

"And you went and told her I could not read it?"

"If she asked me, what could I do but speak the truth?" said Marian gently; but he only made
an impatient exclamation.

"I gave not the least hint of what it was about," added Marian, pleadingly. "Of course I could
not think of that, nor she either; but she looked as if she did so long for some news of Walter:
she has not heard from him since the summer."

"That is her own fault," said Lionel, in his surly voice.

"That only makes it the worse for her. She is so much out of spirits, Lionel; and if you would
only tell her that part about his schools and his lodging, I am sure she would be so much obliged
to you."

"I shan't do any such thing," was his reply; "I always keep my letters to myself, and I wish
you would not talk about me."

He turned sharply away, and crossed the room; but his temper was not improved by the consequences
of his stumbling over a footstool which had been left full in the way, and in rather a dark
place, where it would have been a trap for any one. He recovered in an instant without falling;
so that it would not have signified if Mr. and Mrs. Lyddell had not both been startled. The
former issued an edict that no stumbling-block should be left in the way, and the latter entered
upon an investigation as to who had been the delinquent in the present case, so as to make
a great deal of discussion of the very worst kind for Lionel.

Thenceforth the evening was uncomfortable. Marian felt as if she was guilty of all, and was
extremely provoked with herself for that blundering way of driving at her point, which made
things worse when she most wanted to set them right. She had not comforted Caroline, and she
had led poor Lionel to fancy his confidence betrayed, and himself discussed and--as he would
call it--gossiped about. No wonder he looked as if she had been injuring him; yet, unjust as
it was, she had only her own mal-adroitness to blame. A person of tact would have smoothed
it all at once, instead of ruffling everything up.

The tact Marian longed for is a natural talent; the consideration, the delicacy of feeling,
that she really had, were a part of her sterling goodness, such as may be acquired by all;
and her thorough truth, trustiness, kindness, and above all her single-mindedness, had a value,
where she was really known, which weighed down, in the long run, all that was involuntarily
against her in manner, and won her not only esteem, but such warm affection, such thorough
reliance, as neither she herself, nor those who felt it could fathom. Tact is an excellent
thing, but genuine love to our neighbour, seeking to show true kindness, delicacy, and consideration,--striving
in fact to do as it would be done by,--is as much more precious, as a spiritual gift is than
a natural quality.

That very night, as Marian was sitting in her own room in her dressing-gown, pondering on these
unfortunate blunders, there was a knock at her door, and in came Caroline. Sitting down by
the fire, she held out a letter on two or three sheets of closely written notepaper. "Read
that, Marian," said she, turning her face straight, to the fire as she gave it.

It was from Walter, and the date showed that it had been written, immediately on receiving
the announcement of Caroline's engagement. It was grave, earnest, and affectionate; not accusing
Mr. Faulkner of anything, not positively objecting to him, but reminding Caroline of the solemnity
of the duties she was about to undertake, and of the extreme danger of allowing herself to
be so attracted by agreeableness of manner, or led on by the opinion of those around her, as
to forget that the connection she was about to form was to last for life, and that she must
be responsible for the influence her husband would exercise on her life here, and therefore
on her life hereafter. He said he was sure she could not enter lightly on such an engagement,
and therefore trusted that her own mind was thoroughly convinced that she had chosen one who
would be a guide, an aid, and a support in the path that all were treading.

It was exactly Walter's way, as Marian well knew, to manage to say, in his simple, and as he
thought, guarded manner of representing things, what to sharper people had very much the air
of irony; and as she gave back the letter, her observation, as the first that would occur,
was, "It is very like Walter."

"Very," said Caroline.

"Did you answer him?"

"I wrote again, but--but"--her voice began to fail--"it was not an answer. I would not seem
to understand him. I wrote a lively, careless sort of letter, and only said papa and mamma
were delighted, or something of that kind. And O, Marian, Marian, he has never written to me
again, and I have deserved it." She burst into tears.

"But why don't you write now? He must be very anxious to hear of Lionel, and there is no one
to tell him."

"I cannot," she replied; "I cannot, while--while he thinks of me as he must--as he ought!"
She wept bitterly, and Marian stood by perplexed and distressed. "Dear Caroline," was the utmost
that she could say.

"Marian!" cried Caroline, looking up for a moment, then hiding her face again--"I would give
anything in the world that he had been at home last summer; or that you had slept at High Down
that night."

A flash of hope and joy came across Marian. "If you think so," she began, but Caroline cut
her short. "I know what you mean, but that it? impossible, quite Impossible--decidedly so,"
she added, as if these assurances were to strengthen her own belief in its impossibility, and
not arguing, from a consciousness that her friend would overthrow every one of her arguments.
"I don't know what made me come to you, and tease you," said she, rising and taking her letter;
"good night."

"Tease me! O, Caroline, Caroline, you know--"

What she knew was lost in a most affectionate embrace; but Caroline would not stay any longer,
and left Marian as usual, regretting everything that had passed.

The nest night, however, Caroline came again, as if there was some irresistible spell that
drew her to Marian. It was Sunday, and Marian had long since observed that on such days Caroline
was always most out of spirits. She sat down, and let a long time pass without talking; but
at last she said, "Marian, it is very kind in you to let me come and sit here. You cannot--no--you
will never know how wretched I am."

"My dear, dear Caroline, if I could but do anything for you! but," she proceeded, gathering
resolution from her day's reflections, "you are the only person who can do anything for yourself."

"Impossible!" repeated Caroline.

Marian was not exactly silenced, but involved in deep considerations as to the propriety of
interfering, and whether attempting to persuade Caroline would be doing evil that good might
come. Before she had made up her mind,--as, indeed, how could she in five minutes come to a
conclusion to which hours of previous perplexity had failed to bring her?--Caroline spoke again,
"If it had but never begun! but now it has, it must go on."

"I don't know--"

"It must, I tell you!" repeated Caroline. "If it had all to begin over again, it would be very
different. O, if it was but this time last year!"

"But Caroline, Caroline," repeated Marian, carried away by the thought that rose to her lips,
"only think; you say now if it was this time last year--now, while you can escape. Shall not
you say so all the more when it is really too late,--when you will wish you had drawn back now?"

"You have no right to say I should wish, that!" said Caroline, offended. "You don't know what
the love is that you are holding so cheaply."

"I beg your pardon, Caroline," and Marian was thrown into herself again; but she thought a
little longer, and seeing that Caroline was still waiting and musing, she ventured on saying,
in a timid voice, "Somehow, I think, it would seem to me that the more affection there was,
the more painful it would all be."

"You are right there, Marian," exclaimed Caroline, in a voice of acute feeling.

It was a strange question that Marian next asked abruptly, on an impulse sudden at the moment,
though it was what she had long eagerly desired to know. "Do you love him after all?"

Caroline did not seem vexed by the inquiry, but went on speaking rather as if she was examining
herself as to the answer,--"Love him? I don't know; sometimes I think I do, sometimes I think
not. It is not as people in books love, and--and it can't be as your Agnes must love Mr. Arundel."

A most emphatic "O no!" escaped from Marian, she hardly knew how, as if it was profanation
to compare Mr. Faulkner to Edmund; and perhaps the strongest proof that Caroline's was not
a real attachment, was that she let it pass. "But then," pursued she warmly, "I am sure he
is attached to me--yes, very much--and--well, and I am glad to see him come into the room;
I like to walk with him. There is no one--no--no one in the whole world whom I like so well.
All my doubts and fears go away at the first sound of his voice, and I am quite happy then.
O, Marian, that surely is love?"

"I don't know," said Marian; "I can't fancy love that has not begun with esteem, with looking up,"

"I do look up!" said Caroline, eagerly. "He is so clever, so sensible, has such a mind."

"I did not mean looking up intellectually,"

"Ah! you can live in that way," said Caroline, quickly; "your own people are all of that sort.
But you know I should never have had any one at all to love, if I had begun looking for that
kind of thing, even at home."

Too true, thought Marian, while she answered, "It is a different thing where you have to begin
afresh, and take it voluntarily upon you."

"Voluntarily!" repeated Caroline; "I am sure my will had very little to do with it. I found
myself in the midst of it, without knowing how, before I had made up my mind one way or the
other. O, Marian! if you had but been with me that morning."

"Would that have prevented you?"

"I do really believe it would. You would have looked as if you thought it so impossible, that
I should have been strengthened up to do something they could not have taken for consent. I'll
tell you all about it, Marian, from the beginning, and you will see how little free will I
had in it, and how distracted I am now."

Caroline went through the whole story, incoherently, and often only half expressing her sentiments,
and passing over what Marian knew already. It seemed that she had been pleased with Mr. Faulkner's
agreeableness, flattered by his attention, and entered upon the same sort of intercourse with
him as with any other pleasant acquaintance. It would never have been her way, brought up as
she had been, to shrink from him with such shuddering aversion as Marian did, simply from what
she had heard of his opinions. He was so agreeable, that it was just as well quite to forget
that, or only half to believe it. Then came the growing perceptions of his intentions towards
her, and of her mother's triumph in them. But this was not till the archery arrangements were
so far advanced, that she could not have drawn back from them; and she was, besides, in a whirl
of gaiety and excitement that left little time for serious thought: that she put off till his
offer should be made, if it was really coming. It came, and when she did not expect it. She
knew not what to do she was too confused for consideration. The next day was bewilderment,
and in the evening she found herself engaged. The new sensation given her by her lover's affection,
her genuine admiration of his personal superiority, and wonder at herself for having attracted
such a man,--her gratitude to his family for their kindness, the triumph of her parents,--all
formed such a mixture of pleasurable, almost intoxicating feelings, as at first to giddy her,
(or, as the French will express it, l'etourdir,) as to what she had done, and what she was
about to do. Marian's grave, still face, and omission of one congratulatory, even of one sympathetic
word, were indeed witnesses; but the impression of her unaccommodating ways was then recent,
and Caroline thought of her as one who showed goodness to be unpleasing and impracticable,
and looked on her silent disapproval as part of that system of severity in which, she was consistent,
but which her conduct only proved to be absurd and unreasonable.

In the same spirit Caroline disregarded Walter's letter,--only a letter, which could therefore
be laid aside, and which, in truth, did not say all he meant as forcibly or as well as it might
have been said, since, as every one knew, Walter was more good than clever. A tenderness of
feeling, reminding her that Walter loved her, would not let her destroy the letter, or be offended;
but she intrenched herself in her parents' satisfaction, and being resolved not to attend to
it, she would not seem to understand it. So time passed; at first she was really not exactly
happy, but possessing what passed very well for happiness with herself and every one else;
then came a time when an effort became necessary to persuade herself that she was so. It was
not that Mr. Faulkner showed his character more openly, or startled her with any such plain
expressions as had so much shocked Lionel; for he held that most subtle and perilous of all
views partaking of unbelief,--that Christianity was the best and most beautiful form of religion
yet promulgated, that it was all very well now for women and weak-minded people, and it was
a step to some wonderful perfectibility, which was a sort of worship of an essence of beauty
and intellect.

He did not say such things to her, but they were the principles on which all his sentiments
were founded: and as she knew him mire and more intimately, compared and discussed their tastes
and likings, and the grounds on which they were formed, there were tokens, which could not
help now and then showing themselves, of those opinions of which Marian had warned her.

Very slow was she to admit the conviction, for she was growing much attached to him; and whenever
he praised the beauty, the poetry, the morality, the majesty of anything belonging to religion,
she caught at it and silenced all her doubts with it,--hoped she had silenced them for ever,--but
the perception would return that it was only the beauty that he praised, because it was beauty,
and struck him as such. Shade upon shade, imperceptible in itself, but each tint adding to
its depth, the cloud of misgiving darkened, and though she tried to fight it off,--though she
told herself it was too late,--though she was very angry with herself for it, there it still
hung; and the ever-present consciousness of Marian's disapproval heightened it, till in impatient
moods she began to dislike Marian, and wish her out of the house,

Then came the news of Edmund Arundel's engagement, rousing Marian into such a glow of warm-hearted
delight, as to waken Caroline to a complete sense of her power of affection, as well as of
the contrast of the manner in which she regarded the prospects of her two friends. Caroline
grew more unhappy, and strove both against her own growing wretchedness, and an almost magnetic
attraction, which drew her to impart it all to Marian, in spite of the chill with which it
would be first met, and of the advice which could never be taken; whilst a yearning, longing
desire for the long-suspended intercourse with Walter, and a sense of his displeasure, formed
no slight portion of her miserable feelings. The arrangements for her marriage she looked on
as part of her destiny,--at any rate, they occupied her mind; and there would be an end, after
that, of these dreadful and vain doubts.

In the midst of all this, poor Lionel's threatened misfortune gave Caroline, as it were, a
glimpse down a long dark road, where nothing had ever yet caused her to look; yet who could
say whether it might not be her's to tread it? Affliction, sickness, sorrow, death, certain
at last,--there was but one stay in them; and what if she should lose it,--if she was losing
it already? I She thought of bearing them with him,--of the hollowness, the fallacy, the utter
misery of trying to be sustained by aught that had not its foundations firmly fixed beyond
the grave,--of not looking as sorrow as fatherly chastisement. (Caroline hardly yet entered
into its still higher claim,) or at death as the gate of life. And O! if she loved him as her
husband, what would it be to see him die, thinking, or even having thought, as he too surely
did? All the train of fallacies about sincerity rather than forms of faith,--all the hopes
that he might yet be brought to see the truth, and that she might be the means, were only soporifics
for a moment, which failed to still the ever growing agony. She knew there was nothing in them,
and that they were only extenuations; but still, amid all her unhappiness, there was a resolution
to persevere, a want of moral courage which determined her to go on, and enter on such a life
as this, rather than go through all that would ensue on an attempt to break off the match.
Thus, though her reluctance was increasing, and she now sought to put off the decisive day,
instead of precipitating it, as at first, all she attempted was to have the wedding deferred
in consequence of her brother's condition; and though, logically taken, there was no great
reason in the request, every one agreed it was a very amiable feeling, and so her desire was
complied with. She would have avoided Marian more than ever, but this could hardly be, now
that her cousin was in fuller sympathy, with all the family than she had ever been before;
and little as was her immediate power with Lionel, Caroline would have given worlds even for
that. Thus, as has been shown, the old sympathy grew up again; the root, blighted months ago,
shot out once more, and at last accident and impulse led Caroline to do what she had little
expected ever to have done,--to pour out all her griefs, cares, and doubts to Marian, knowing
all the time what she would say, and resolved against her advice, yet irresistibly impelled
to go on, as if talking would relieve her of her burthen, and resting on the solid, firm truth
of that deep love, which manifested itself by few tokens indeed, but those were of extreme worth.

The confession was a perplexity and a sorrow to Marian while it was being made, though she
was very glad it had been done; and how intense were the affection and compassion for Caroline
that filled her heart is beyond all power of narration. She answered with earnest sympathy,
at each step helped out the broken words, and showed her comprehension of the pauses. She was
a perfect listener in all but one respect; she would not give the counsel Caroline wanted;
and she would not have been Marian, she would not have had her own reality and bracing severity,
if she had. She could not cheer Caroline up, bid her banish fear, and look forward to happiness;
she could not even tell her there was no help for it: she only said, "I don't know," and sat
considering whenever Caroline reiterated that it was impossible, and too late.

Some power those "I don't knows" had beyond eloquence; for when Caroline had seven times fully
proved how entirely out of the question any attempt to escape from her destiny would be, she
ended by asking, in quite a different tone, "What would you have me do?"

The reply was, of course, "I don't know;" but this was immediately followed by a repetition
of the former counsel, "Write to Walter."

Caroline could not--would not; it would be of no use: poor Walter should not be tormented.
If, in his strict sense of right, he chose to come and try, as he would think, to save her,
there would be nothing but uproar and confusion in the family; and to think of him, with his
timidity, bringing his father's anger on himself for her sake, seemed to her at the moment
beyond all things dreadful. No, no, no, it was utterly impossible; and therewith the fire being
out, and the clock striking two, Caroline thanked Marian for her kindness, said it was all
of no use, kissed her, and bade her good night.

Marian thought no good was done, and only made herself very unhappy at seeing her led, by weakness,
to sacrifice herself against her better judgment. The next night, Caroline came again, and
the conversation was resumed, or rather gone over again, with no more satisfactory result than
before; and so it was the next, and the next. To be comforter and adviser sounds like a delightful
privilege, and so, thought Marian, it would be, if one could only do it; but to have all the
opportunity,--to have people coming for comfort, and not in the least be able to afford it,
neither to relieve them, nor to be sure that she had not done them harm was to the highest
degree painful and unsatisfactory. And from Lionel's repinings to Caroline's doubts, she went,
suffering for each, equally unable to console either, and wondering which was the saddest case.
Lionel's was, she thought, far the best, if he would but perceive it; but then Caroline's might
yet be remedied, if she had but strength for one struggle. All that Marian could do without
mistrust, was to pray for them both, and to pray that she might not be the means of doing them
harm.

She saw how wrong it would be in her, personally to interfere between Caroline and her parents'
wishes; and it was this that made her adhere to that one piece of advice, that Walter should
be written to, since on his judgment and sense of right there was the most absolute reliance;
and, both as brother and Clergyman, he was by far the most proper person for Caroline to consult,
or to act for her.

For three days, however, it was all in vain, Caroline would not write; and she began to despair,
and to grow angry with the feebleness that would not take one step in the right direction.
On the fourth, Caroline, who the night before had seemed as averse as ever, showed her, as
she crossed the hall on the way to luncheon, a letter directed to the Reverend Walter Lyddell.
Her heart leapt, but as she smiled satisfaction, she saw Caroline's face so wan, dejected,
and miserable, that she could not make herself too happy. There were other doubts, now that
this point was gained, as to how Walter might be able to manage Caroline,--whether he would
lead her to the right, or unconsciously turn her to the wrong, by his want of skilfulness;
what might be his idea of her duty to her parents, or to her promise; whether he might think
it right to take upon himself to advise, or whether either he or his sister, when it came to
the point, would have nerve enough to excite their father's displeasure.

The only thing Marian thought at all favourable, was that Elliot and Mr. Faulkner were both
at Newmarket, and there was no present appearance of their coming home. Elliot was likely to
make more opposition than any one else, and Mr. Faulkner's influence was of course to be dreaded.
Indeed, had he been at hand, believing, as Caroline did, in his affection for her, it was most
probable that she would never have spoken of her misgivings at all, and very possibly have
hardly acknowledged them to herself.

Caroline's letter had been written on Thursday. It was Monday, and no answer had come, which
caused her to look more worn and dispirited than before, unable even to keep up the appearance
of cheerfulness which she had hitherto assumed when with the rest of the family. It was a cold,
gloomy, wintry day, with gusts of sleety rain, and no one chose to attempt going out, except
Marian and Lionel, the former of whom was a systematic despiser of weather, and never was hurt
by anything but staying in-doors, while the latter would rather have done anything than idle
away a whole afternoon as well as a morning in the drawing-room. Even they thought it too bad
for riding; so after making the circuit of the park, they went into the town, where Lionel
wanted to buy a silk handkerchief. He had been told the day before that his neck-tie was growing
unfit to be seen, he did not choose to ask any one to get one for him, and it was against his
will that he was obliged to take Marian to secure him from buying "any thing awful," as he
expressed it.

The purchase prospered very well, Lionel hoped that the shopman had not found out how entirely
he trusted to his companion for the choice, and was proud that his old precaution of substituting
a key for a slider at the gold end of his purse, had saved him from making any mistakes about
the money. They were walking away, arm in arm; it was not yet necessary to guide him, but Marian
thought, beginning now would soften the first commencement of dependence. And, indeed, even
in the holidays Lionel, in his first tail-coat, had been well-pleased to find himself man enough
to have his arm taken by a young lady.

A carriage was passing. "There is Walter!" joyfully exclaimed Marian, as she saw the well-known
spectacled face peering from the window of one of the carriages from the Great Western Station.

"Walter! what, come at last?" cried Lionel, looking up and frowning in that painful way that
had become habitual to him when he strained his eyes to see distinctly. Walter had at the same
moment spied them, stopped, thrown the door open, sprung out, and was shaking hands with them,
but scarcely speaking. He turned again to order the driver to go on and set his things down
at the house, and then joined his brother and cousin, looting very anxiously at Lionel, whose
arm Marian had quitted, and still keeping silence. Marian on her side was very glad; but at
the same time almost overcome by the thought of what this return home must be to Walter, and
feeling a strange, solemn sensation at first meeting her cousin and companion, after he had
become in an especial manner the servant of the Most High. He was Walter still, Walter with
his near-sighted eyes, and nervous manner, yet he was so much more, and his clerical dress
would not let her forget it for a moment.

Lionel was the most unembarrassed of the three, he was very glad to meet his brother, and wishing
to show that he could bear his troubles manfully, he spoke joyously, "So you have thought better
of it and come at last, Walter; I hope it is for a good long time."

"Only till Saturday," was Walter's answer.

"Well, that is something, only I can't think why you did not come before."

Walter murmured something about having been much occupied, and then seemed to be watching Lionel
too intently to say any more. Marian thought the brothers would get on much better without
her, and, coming to a cottage, said she wanted to speak to somebody in it. "O Marian, we will
wait for you," said Walter, with a pleading look, and she saw from his agitated, fidgeting
manner, that he was excessively nervous at the notion of being left to take care of Lionel
back to the house.

"Very well," she said, "I will not be a moment;" and delivering her message, which had been
only devised as an excuse, she walked on with them, in a sort of despair as to Walter's being
of any use. "If he is afraid to walk home with Lionel," thought she, "what will it be about
stirring up his father? Why cannot people have a little courage?" She consoled herself by remembering
that Walter could not know the degree of Lionel's blindness, and probably thought it worse
than it yet was; but even if it had been total, she could not see that he need have been afraid
of guiding him in the street and through the park. If it was the additional nervousness, of
disliking to begin on so painful a subject, that she thought worse than all. Marian being by
no means troubled with nerves herself, had little toleration for women who had them; and none
at all for men. She thought the case lost, and half repented of her advice to write to Walter,
yet she did not know what else she could possibly have said. Lionel talked on, told who was
at home, and what every one was about, and when Johnny had last been heard of, all in a bright,
lively tone, not exactly assumed, for he was much cheered by his brother's arrival, and yet
partly from the wonted desire of showing himself happy. Walter did not make much reply, but
when Lionel after saying Elliot was at Newmarket, added, "And Mr. Faulkner is there too, so
you won't have the pleasure of an introduction," he started, and Marian saw the trembling of
his lips.

Thus they reached the house, and Lionel dashed forward In his own headlong way before them,
to announce Walter's coming. Then Walter looked at Marian, saying, "Then it is not so bad yet?"

"O no, it is only that he cannot see anything distinctly; he cannot bear not to be independent."

They were entering the hall by this time, and his mother and sisters had come out to meet Walter,
Caroline very white and trembling, and holding by the back of a chair instead of coming forward;
Mrs. Lyddell kissed him, and seemed more affectionate than usual, for it had been a great pleasure
to her to see Lionel rush in with that animated face, and a shout such as he used to get into
disgrace for.

Nothing came to pass that evening, there were no private conferences, and there was nothing
remarkable, excepting that Lionel was quite merry and talkative, and Caroline more silent than
ever, seeming hardly to attend even when Walter was sitting between her and Clara, talking
to Marian and Lionel about the beautiful arrangements of Church and school in his new curacy.
At night she was in such a terrible agitation, walking up and down the rooms so restless and
wretched that Marian, seriously afraid she would be quite ill the next day, persuaded her with
great difficulty, to go to bed, and did not leave her till very late at night, when she had
read her to sleep.

It was a, great relief to find her pretty well in the morning, at least with nothing worse
than a headache. She and Walter both disappeared after breakfast, and did not come down till
luncheon time, when she looked so ill that Mrs. Lyddell was alarmed and insisted on her lying
down and keeping quiet. Then Mrs. Lyddell said that Walter ought to go and call on Lady Julia
Faulkner, and offered to take him there. Marian looked at him by stealth, and could have gasped
for breath, for by what he did now, she thought she could see what line he would take.

"Thank you," he said, or rather hesitated, "but don't let me interrupt your plans. I thought
I heard something about--about. Salisbury. I have something to do there."

"The girls did talk of wanting to go," said Mrs. Lyddell. "Did not you, Marian or Clara, which
was it?"

"My watch wants to have something done to it," put in Lionel, whose father had given him a
repeater, which of course began its career by doing anything but going properly.

"Well, perhaps it will he as well to go to Salisbury to-day, as Caroline has this headache.
She never likes going there, and she may be able to go with us to High Down to-morrow."

So it was settled, and they left the luncheon table. Marian happened to be the last lady, and
whether it was fancy or not she was not sure, but she thought she heard on Walter's lips, a
self-reproachful whisper of "Coward."

The expedition to Salisbury, in which Marian was obliged to take part, prevented her from seeing
anything of Caroline till the evening, and then as soon as Clara was out of the way Caroline
rose up, caught hold of her hand, and exclaimed, "O, Marian, what have you made me do?" then
walked about in a paroxysm of distress, almost terrible to witness.

"Caroline, dearest, O don't!" cried Marian quite frightened; "do try to be calm! O what is it?"

"O it will all be misery!" said Caroline, sitting down and clasping her hands over her face,
"I little knew what it would be when you made me write to Walter. He says it would be wickedness--yes,
those were his words--he called it wickedness in me to go on with it, as I feel now!"

"And you mean to--"

"I cannot tell--I don't know--he must do as he pleases; O it will make me wild! He must do
as he pleases, for I must be wretched either way,"

"Dear Caroline--but O! how much better to be unhappy for the sake of doing right than when--"

"Yes, yes--so he said--but O! the horror. It kills me even to think of what it will be! O,
Marian, Marian--"

"It will be over in time," said Marian; "but O! I am glad you have made up your mind--"

"No, I have not--at least I must, I suppose--for after what Walter said I can't go on. Walter's
words would be a dagger--O! I don't know what they would be, all the rest of my life if I did.
No--you and Walter must have your own way; I am too wretched already to care what becomes of
inc. But he--O Marian, I never can--"

"If it is right you can," said Marian.

"You can, but you don't know what you say to me," said Caroline. "Right has never been to me
what it is to you."

"Yes, indeed it has, dear Caroline, or you would not be making this struggle now. Indeed there
must be strength in you, or you would have gone on without faltering."

"Walter said he should never have spoken one word after that first letter, if I had not begun,"
said Caroline; "but when he saw my mind misgave me, and I wanted help, he thought it his duty
to come and set it all before me. O, Marian, he said dreadful things; I did not think Walter
could have been so cruel. O, such things! He made me look at the Marriage Service, and say
how I could answer those things; and he talked about death and the Last Day. He said it would
be a presumptuous sin, and a profaning of the holy ordinance for me to come to it, knowing
and thinking and feeling as I do. O what things he said! and yet he was very kind to me."

"Well, and--"

"I left it all to him. I knew it would be misery, and I did not care in what way; but then,
Marian, O! worse than all, he said it must be my own doing."

"I suppose it must."

"He said he would help me; but I was the only person who had a right to do anything! O, Marian,
Marian, I wish I could die."

"It will be over in time!" repeated Marian.

"Yes, but it will not be over. Mamma, papa, O I shall be reproached with it for ever; I shall
know I have made him unhappy. O would that I could begin all over again!"

"You will have comfort at last in having been strong. The greater the effort the nobler it
is! O, Caroline, do only hold out nobly. It is so glorious to have something to suffer for
the sake of doing right!"

"Glorious!" murmured Caroline, her desponding gaze raised to contemplate the grand head, fine
brow, firm lips, and dark glancing eye, turned up for a moment in the enthusiastic spirit of
self-devotion. That look, unknowing as was Marian that she wore it, penetrated into Caroline's
soul, and warmed her too with the temper of martyrdom. "Glorious;" she repeated a second time,
and the tone was not so broken and hopeless as before.

"To be sure it is!" said Marian, going on with her own thoughts, "and it is so seldom people
can ever partake of it, in ever so slight a degree, in these days; I always think it so beautiful
where the account is given of the Apostles' great joy when they found a persecution was really
going to begin."

"Persecution--yes, real persecution."

"And every suffering for the sake of the truth, for conscience' sake, must partake a little
of that, I suppose," said Marian reverently.

There they were interrupted by Clara, who came to call Marian down stairs. Caroline came too,
which the others had not expected. She was more calm and composed, and her headache was supposed
by her mother to account for her want of spirits. She went to bed early, begging Marian to
come and visit her when she came up. Marian contrived to do so as soon as possible, and found
her already in bed, quiet and comfortable. "Marian," she said, "I have made up my mind. Now
read to me, if you please."

She was worn out with agitation and sleeplessness, and soothed with having come to a determination,
she soon fell asleep, and Marian went to her own room, wondering over the part Walter had acted,
and what he might be going to do next, whether he had led or driven his sister, and how far
the courage of principle would avail to subdue natural timidity.

Caroline was pretty well the next morning, but the time was broken up in various ways, so that
it was not till the afternoon that she could see Walter again in private. Lionel was considerably
disconcerted when he found himself left to Marian. He had no notion of what was going on, had
believed Walter's return to be entirely on his account, and was much disappointed at not having
more of his company; for though both had been of the party to Salisbury, one had been outside
the carriage and the other inside, so that they had not seen much of each other, and this morning
had been interrupted. He was so much vexed and inclined to be hurt, by what he felt as a slight
on his brother's part, that Marian could not resist telling him what she knew would console
him. "I don't think you will mind it, Lionel, when you know why it is that Caroline wants him."

"Ha?" said Lionel, "you don't mean that she has thought better of it, and is going to send
Julian the Apostate to the right about. Eh? You don't say so. Well, then there is some good
in Caroline after all! But then what should she want of Walter?"

"To help her, to advise her."

"Well, if she likes, but I can't see what advice she wants. She has only got to make him a
curtsey and say, 'Very much obliged to you, sir, but I had rather be excused.'"

Marian could not help laughing, in spite of her deep feeling on the matter, and Lionel, who
had acted the voice and the curtsey, laughed too, and then perhaps ashamed of making fun of
such an affair, added, "It is the best news I have heard this long time. What, and that is
what she has been so dismal about these last few days, is it?"

"Yes, she has been very unhappy indeed. It is a terrible struggle."

"What? she likes him, does she? Poor Cary! After all I am glad she is coming right again, she
is very good natured, and a great deal too good for Ju--. Ah! you won't have him called so,
I know. They have taken a good time for it now he is away and Elliot too, but what a tremendous
row there will be about it. Mamma thought it was such a speculation for Caroline."

"Yes, I am afraid she will have a great deal to go through."

"Yes," said Lionel, pondering gravely for some minutes; then asking "What is going to be done?"

"I don't know in the least; I believe she is settling with Walter to-day."

"Then nobody knows about it yet?"

There was no more to do but to have the satisfaction of talking over the engagement together,
an occupation which put Lionel into particularly good spirits, and made their walk very pleasant.
In the next glimpse which Marian had of Caroline, she learnt that Walter had undertaken to
speak to his father that very evening. Caroline looked ghastly white as she said so in a whisper,
but her dreadful agitation seemed to have left her; she had evidently quite made up her mind,
though she said she believed it would never have been done if it had rested with her to begin
by telling either of her parents. Both she and Marian knew that nothing but a spirit of moral
heroism could have braced Walter to bear the first brunt of his father's wrath, and she was
very much shocked at her own weakness in suffering it, but still it was much in her to allow
it to be done.

That the conversation had taken place at night, when all the rest had retired, was evident
to Marian when they met the nest morning from the very dark, severe loots of Mr Lyddell, from
his wife's impatient angry manner, and sharper, louder voice. Walter was almost absolutely
silent, Caroline went through the forms of breakfast as if she was in a dream, Lionel frowned,
fidgeted, and tried with all his might, poor boy, to scan the faces which were daily growing
more obscure to his vision; even Clara saw something was wrong, and glanced from one to the
other in a puzzled, alarmed manner When they left the dining-room, Marian heard Mrs. Lyddell
say, "Caroline, I want you." She flew up to her own room, and hiding her face, as she knelt
down, she entreated earnestly that her poor Caroline might have steadfastness to go through
this fearful trial. She was interrupted by Clara, begging to know what was the matter, if anything
was wrong about Mr. Faulkner; she thought Lionel knew, but when she him be would do nothing
but crow like a cock. Marian would have been glad if she could have made any equally convenient
demonstration instead of an answer, but she could only say that she had heard nothing of Mr.
Faulkner, and could not tell Clara anything about the matter.

"Do you know anything?" said Clara.

"I do know."

"Ah! you are in all Caroline's secrets now, and that is very odd; you who used to hate the
Faulkners. Well, but are not you coming down?"

In spite of his cock-crowings, Lionel was very anxious, and when in the course of that long
desultory forlorn morning he was left alone with Marian, he earnestly asked her what she knew.
"Nothing" was her answer.

"O if Caroline will but hold out!" he exclaimed, "that will be what I call being good for something!
I hope mamma won't be desperately angry, for that I could stand less than anything, it goes
on so much longer with her than with papa."

"She will be very much disappointed. O how I wish I knew what is happening!"

It was a long time before any intelligence could be gained: Mrs. Lyddell was very much flushed,
and looked extremely displeased when she came down, hardly speaking to any one but Lionel,
and glancing most sternly at Marian, Caroline did not come down at all, and when Marian was
going up stairs after luncheon, Mrs. Lyddell said with extreme coldness, "Do not go to Caroline,
if you please, I wish her to be left quiet."

Marian was in great consternation, since it was evident that Mrs. Lyddell perceived how her
influence had been exerted, and was very much offended, indeed it was no wonder that she should
be. Nothing but "very well" could be said so she quietly prepared to go out. Lionel had his
brother this afternoon and did not want her, so she had only Clara for her companion full of
surmises and of excitement. When she came in and was on her way to her room, Caroline opened
her door. "Marian! O will you not come to me?" cried she imploringly.

Marian could not but comply, indeed she had no hesitation, for she thought Mrs. Lyddell's injunction
only applied to the time before she went out.

"O, cheer me up, comfort me, Marian!" said Caroline, drawing her cousin's arm round her waist,
"I do want it so much!"

"You are going on bravely then!" said Marian, caressing her.

"Bravely!" sighed Caroline; "No, indeed, but I have held firmly so far! I could not but stand
by poor Walter, you know, when he confronted it all for me! I could not say much--I could only
cry--but I took care they should not think I consented again."

"And is Mrs. Lyddell very much displeased?"

"O, don't speak of it, Marian. I cannot bear it."

The door opened and Mrs. Lyddell entered, and the air of indignant surprise on seeing Marian
called for an answer: "I beg your pardon, I thought you only meant me not to go to Caroline
just after luncheon," said Marian.

"I wish matters, such as we have been discussing, to be confined entirely to our own family,"
replied Mrs. Lyddell, too angry not to say something, yet too much afraid of Marian not to
say it very courteously.

"Mamma!" said Caroline eagerly, "only hear me. I assure you that not one word did Marian ever
say to me till I voluntarily went to her a week ago, because I was so very miserable I could
bear it no longer."

"I should have thought your mother the proper person to go to in such a case. Miss Arundel's
sentiments had so long been visible, that you could have no doubt of the advice you would receive
from her."

"Mrs. Lyddell," said Marian, collecting herself, and speaking slowly, "I am very sorry I have
appeared to act a part which I know must seem unjustifiable. I never spoke to--to Caroline"
(the remembrance of Lionel prevented her from saying to any one) "of my opinion of this engagement,
after it was formed, till she came to me for advice, in her distress. I could not speak against
my conscience, and I tried not to forget what was due to you. I only begged her to write to
her brother as the fittest person to help her, as being a clergyman. I beg your pardon for
having acted against your wishes." So saying, Marian went out, surprised and alarmed at finding
herself in open opposition to Mrs. Lyddell, and bewildered as to how she ought to have acted.
Her comfort was in looking forward to the refuge at Fern Torr, and she smiled as she compared
Mrs. Lyddell with her other guardian's future wife.

Mrs. Lyddell wished her at Fern Torr fully as much as she did. She had already become jealous
of Lionel's preference, and it was too galling to find the affection of her children stolen
from her by that cold, pale, proud, unprepossessing girl. Had the love been on the part of
Elliot or Walter, Mrs. Lyddell would hardly have regretted it, considering Miss Arundel's large
fortune and high connexions; but nothing was less probable than this, and Marian's influence
over Caroline was at present, in Mrs. Lyddell's eyes, only a source of mischief.

Lionel was alone in the drawing-room, and met Marian eagerly inquiring "What news?"

"I have hardly seen her. Has Walter told you nothing?"

"No; he thinks I don't know, and I was not going to let on that you told me. Is she steady?"

"Yes, so far."

"That is right," said Lionel, thoughtfully, "I am very sorry for her, but I shall think the
better of her ever after."

"Have you been out with Walter?"

"Yes, we have had a very nice talk."

Here Walter came down, and began to talk to Marian about schools and lending libraries.

It was a strange state of things, with all those different pairs of confidential friends. Both
Marian and Walter were the stay and support of Caroline and Lionel; yet, though acting in concert,
and perfectly agreed, not saying a word in confidence to each other on either head. Neither
did Walter speak of Caroline to Lionel, nor Lionel, though much interested for her, speak to
her of his affairs or her own. Clara indeed bestowed her communications on every one, but she
got nothing in return that was satisfactory. Marian was the central point with all except Walter,
but the fulness of her heart was bestowed elsewhere. And, alas! none saw so little of those
young hearts as the parents, who had never earned their confidence; so that when they turn
to them, it was from duty, as to rulers, not as to counsellors and friends.

Very sore was Marian's heart that night, when she felt it her duty to bid Caroline good night
in Mrs. Lyddell's hearing, in spite of the piteous, imploring glance turned upon her. Might
not her support make all the difference now? she thought. No; shame on her for thinking that
she could do more good than He to whose hands Caroline was trusted! Folly, to dream that her
awkward, blundering words could be more help than the prayers she could pour out alone!

Yet all these consolations could not prevent poor Marian from being very miserable, under the
dread that Caroline thought her unkind, and felt herself deserted, after being involved in
all this suffering. And O, should she fail! Walter must go on Saturday, and then she would
be left to fight her battle alone.

On the Friday the whole house knew what was going on. Mr. Lyddell himself had a conversation
with Caroline, but nothing of it transpired. It only was evident that she still continued in
the same mind, and she looked more wretched than ever. Marian was anxious to show her affection
and sympathy in her manner, but her anxiety only made her cold, and dry, and awkward. Clara
was excited and puzzled, Walter was hardly spoken to by father or mother; and when at breakfast
on Saturday he spoke of his departure, the silence that he encountered seemed to express that
he had much better not have come home at all.

Marian felt fierce with indignation, and Lionel, perhaps by way of effusion of the same feeling,
dashed his chair away from the table, and called out, "Mind you come back again as soon as
ever you can."

But the dead silence that followed was more painful and marked than it had been before.

CHAPTER XVII.

  SIR W. RALEIGH.

The Sunday after Walter's departure was a very uncomfortable and melancholy day. It was very
sad to see poor Caroline looking wan and suffering, and turning now and then a wistful appealing
glance at Marian, as if intreating for the help which must not be afforded to her; and then
at each meeting and parting, Marian was dissatisfied with herself for having been rendered
stiff and dry instead of tender and consoling, by the very wish to be affectionate, which prevented
her from being at ease. She heard from Clara that Caroline's great desire was to be allowed
to write to Mr. Faulkner on the subject before she saw him again, whilst he was still in London,
and that it was this which her parents so strongly opposed, convinced that a meeting with him
would renew all her feelings of attachment. Marian dreaded the same, for she could not think
Caroline's resolution sufficient to hold out in sight of his affection, and of his prepossessing
qualities, and at the same time, every day that the engagement continued made it more difficult
to break it off.

One comfort was, however, that Lionel's anxiety and interest in Caroline's affairs, were drawing
his attention from his own trouble, and he was much less irritable and unhappy than before.
Perhaps this might have been in part owing to his conversations with Walter, who could venture
on giving him more lessons on the right principle of endurance than Marian had ever dared to
put before him. She was more pleased than she had been for a long time, when as they were walking
together in the plantations, after evening service, he said with some abruptness and yet with
some hesitation, "Marian, didn't you once read something with Gerald in the morning?"

"Yes," said Marian, sure of what the something meant.

"Do you do it still by yourself?"

"Yes."

"Then I wish----. Would you mind reading to me?"

"The Psalms and Lessons? O, Lionel, I should be so glad I Only could you get up in time? for
I don't know when to do it except before breakfast."

"To be sure I could get up in time. I only lie in bed because there is nothing to do, and nobody
to speak to."

"Well then, will you meet me in the schoolroom at eight o'clock in the morning?"

"Very well."

No more was said, but Lionel kept his appointment. It was, as Marian guessed a recommendation
of his brother's. Walter had asked him to get one of his sisters to read to him, and Lionel
had made the request to Marian, as his real sister, though he had never told Walter whether
he meant to take his advice.

The next Sunday, Marian, on coming down after dressing for dinner, was surprised to find Elliot
standing by the fire. He just inclined his bead, and moved his lips by way of greeting.

"When did you come home?" said she drily.

"Half-an-hour ago."

The answer was brief and with no encouragement to say more. She thought he looked dark and
moody, and, taking up a book, was silent. The next time the door opened, it was Lionel who
entered. He frowned and gazed up, perceiving the figure but not able to make it out. "Ha, Lionel!
How d'ye do?" said Elliot in a short, gruff, indifferent voice; without moving or attempting
to shake hands, without any token that he thought of Lionel's misfortune.

Lionel's equally indifferent tone, "How d'ye do?" was sign enough to Marian that he was hurt.
He came and sat by her, talked fast and low, and laughed several times in the constrained manner
he used to put on by way of bravado; Elliot all the time taking no notice. The others soon
made their appearance. Mr. and Mrs. Lyddell had seen him before, and to his sisters his greeting
was much in the same style, hardly vouchsafing any recognition of Caroline at all.

The cloud was thicker and darker than ever all dinner time. Mr. and Mrs. Lyddell tried in vain
to talk, he answered them in a short snappish way which he was apt to assume whenever his father
made any attempt to check his extravagance.

The ladies and Lionel were glad to get into the drawing-room, and leave him and his father
to themselves. Tea came and they did not appear, ten o'clock struck, half-past, and they came
not. The ladies were putting away their books, and thinking of wishing good night when suddenly
the door was thrown open, and in tramped Mr. Lyddell, red with passion, while behind him came
Elliot, with less of violence, but with a dark scowl of resentment on his downcast and always
unpleasant face.

"Caroline!" began Mr. Lyddell, in a voice of thunder, and great was the alarm of all, for her
sake, as she turned pale and trembled. "Caroline! You have my full consent to do as you please.
You may break with Faulkner to-morrow, if you like!"

Some discovery! thought Marian, transfixed with wonder and hope; Caroline sat still but for
her trembling, her face bent down, and her hands nervously clasped together.

"Now, sir," proceeded Mr. Lyddell, turning round on Elliot, "you see if I am the tyrant you
would make me. You see if I am going to force my daughter into a marriage against her wish--sacrifice
my whole family because I have an ill-conditioned scamp of a good-for-nothing son. You see."

"I do see, sir," muttered Elliot; "and you'll see whether you like the consequences."

Marian thought she had better be out of this family scene, and had her hand on the door, but
Mr. Lyddell called out "Stay here! Marian! I don't care if all the world heard me. He thinks
he can threaten me into tyranny over her inclinations, and I tell him she is as free as air!
I vow----."

"Mr. Lyddell! do consider, do think," expostulated his wife; "I daresay Elliot was a little
too vehement a partizan for his friend----."

"Friend! Pshaw! He care for his friend!" said Mr. Lyddell scornfully. "'Tis for himself he
is a partizan, I tell you. Nothing else does he care a straw for. 'Tis for nothing but the
saving of her fortune that he would have me persecute his sister into this marriage! Aye! he
has the face to tell me so! and what more do you think he comes and says to me! Why! that Lionel
will be nothing but a burthen for ever! A pretty pass things are come to when he speaks after
that fashion of his own brother! He cared for his friend, indeed!"

"No one ever thought of compelling Caroline," pleaded Mrs. Lyddell.

"But I tell you he did," interrupted her husband. "I told him I was very sorry, but I could
not help it; if she would have her own way, I could not make her marry the man against her
will, and he answers in his sneering way that it is all nonsense, he would be bound to make
her give up in no time--any man could bring a girl to reason. As if I was to persecute my daughter
to force her into what she tells me is against her conscience. Better too much conscience than
none at all, I tell you, Master Elliot."

"We had better bring this scene to an end, sir," said Elliot sullenly. "We understand each other."

So saying, he took up his candle and flung out of the room. The girls were but too glad to
escape, and Lionel followed them, leaving Mr. and Mrs. Lyddell to themselves.

Caroline and Clara both were trembling like aspen leaves, each threw an arm round Marian's
waist, and leant against her as soon as they were out of the room. She had been startled and
trembling before, but their fright seemed to give her firmness; and it was well, for Caroline's
knees shook so much, and she was so nervous that she could hardly have reached her room without
support. Clara began to exclaim, but Marian stopped her, made her fetch some camphor julep,
helped Caroline to undress, and put her to bed. Caroline hardly spoke all the time, but as
Marian bent over her to kiss her, and wish her good night, she whispered, "I may soon be able
to have you again, dear Marian!"

Marian went to bed, wondering at all that had passed, indignant with Elliot, pleased with Mr.
Lyddell, hopeful for Caroline, and cheered by finding that she had not been thought unkind.

She heard doors opened and shut, and the trampling of feet the next morning, and when Lionel
met her in the schoolroom for their reading, he told her that be had been overtaken by Elliot
running down stairs at full speed; and had only just time to clear out of his way. "And hark!
is not there something at the front door? Look out, Marian."

Marian looked from the window. "Yes! It is his dog-cart. Can he be going away, Lionel?"

"Going off in a rage!" said Lionel, looking grave; "I thought there was mischief in his voice
last night."

"Yes, there is his portmanteau," said Marian, in a tone of consternation; for little as she
liked Elliot, it was too shocking to see a son thus leave his father's roof.

"It is a pretty piece of work," said Lionel. "He has been coming it a little too strong for
my father, it seems! Well, poor Caroline will be let alone, that is one good thing; but I am
afraid he will go and get into some tremendous scrape, if it is only for the sake of spiting
my father."

"It is very dreadful!" said Marian, sighing.

"I am very glad my father was so angry, though!" said Lionel. "Wanting him to drive poor Caroline
into it by unkindness! That was a little too bad!"

"Yes, indeed," said Marian. "But O! here he comes out of the door with his cigar. He is getting
in! There he goes! O, Lionel!"

They both were silent for some little time. Then Marian took up the prayer-book, and began
the Psalm, and when she heard Lionel's voice join in the Doxology, a thrill came home to her,
making her feel that blindness might yet be indeed the blessing to him that faith taught her
to know it must be. How much better to be thus than like his brother.

When they met the others at breakfast, it proved that they alone knew of the departure; Mr.
Lyddell interrogated Elliot's servant, and heard from him that he had orders to follow his
master to Paris as soon as he had packed up his goods. This was all that could be learnt, and
all that Marian could make out as to what had passed, was that he had been strongly averse
to Caroline's engagement being broken off, that he had tried to induce his father to insist
upon it, and to drive her to overcome her reluctance by what could be only understood as domestic
persecution, and that in short he had allowed his unfeeling selfishness to appear to such a
degree, that it had positively revolted his father, whose displeasure had long been excited
by the extravagance that had been causing serious inconvenience, and who instantly, while under
the influence of his first indignation, resolved to show that he would not be domineered over,
nor sacrifice the rest of the family to the extravagance which he had already too freely supplied.

Mr. Lyddell had given his consent while angry, and he could not retract it when he was cool.
Caroline therefore might write her letter as soon as she pleased. She had nothing to dread
from him; indeed, as if out of opposition to Elliot, he was kinder to her than he had ever
been before, called her "my dear" more than once, and observed on her pale looks. Her mother
spoke little to her, and that little was cold and unkind, while she looked so vexed and unhappy
that even Marian had some feeling for her, and what must it have been for her own daughter?
However, all open opposition was withdrawn, and Caroline had only herself to struggle with.
There was no reason why she should not once more seek comfort from Marian, yet all that day
she kept at a distance, and it was not till the next evening that she came into Marian's room,
and sinking into a chair, murmured, "I have done it."

"Written your letter?"

"Sent it."

"O, I am so glad!"

"Glad?"

"Yes, but you will be glad when it is over."

"O!" sighed Caroline, incredulously. "You know nothing about it. Marian."

"Every one must be glad to have done right," said Marian, firmly.

"O what a week it has been! And I have sown dissension in the family! And no one can tell what
may be the consequence with Elliot! And he will be unhappy! O! Marian--I wish--I wish you had
let me go on my own way and be miserable alone," added she with a kind of anger.

"It was your own doing," said Marian gently; "you felt it to be right. Only worse misery could
come of your going on, for that would have been positive wrong; now it must and will get better."

"I don't know," sighed Caroline. "I never knew till now how much I cared for him! O, Marian!"
and she burst into a hearty fit of crying.

Marian was perplexed, as she always was when any one cried, and stood without a word till Caroline
had relieved herself by tears, and began to speak again. It was very sad and melancholy, and
it was very difficult to find anything to answer; Marian could see no consolation but that
"it was right," and that did not seem to have much effect on Caroline; while, added to the
former trouble of renouncing the man who loved her, and of grieving her parents, there was
the dread of what Elliot might do in his anger.

However, the being able to pour everything out to so true a friend was more of a comfort than
anything that, could have been said to her. She told Marian that she had gone through the conversations
with her father and mother better than she could have thought possible. She could not desert
poor Walter, that was one thing that helped her, she must stand by him, and papa was not half
so angry as she expected. It seemed as if her strength had grown with each occasion for it.
The first effort of writing to Walter had cost her most of all, then the allowing him to break
the matter to her father had been dreadful; but after all, the conferences with her parents,
singly and together, had not been as bad as the fear of them, and Marian tried to persuade
her that it would be the same when she saw Mr. Faulkner, but poor Caroline shook her head,
and said Marian knew nothing about it. And Marian was much of the same opinion, and held her
peace, but before the end of the conversation she had the great pleasure of hearing Caroline
say, "The thought of being able to have you again has been the one great help to me through all!"

Two days after this, as Marian and Lionel were going out riding together, Marian exclaimed,
"I do believe that is Mr. Faulkner!"

"Where?"

"Riding on the Salisbury road," said Marian; "I am sure it is his horse."

"Don't let us meet him! can't we get out of the way?" said Lionel. "Aren't we somewhere near
the thorny lane?"

"No, but we might ride off on the Down. Only take care, Lionel; you had better keep close to
me," said Marian, much more unwilling to meet Mr. Faulkner than to conduct Lionel through the
ups and downs of the green, chalky common.

She watched and guided his pony up the bank and upon the Down, and on they trotted fast, for
Marian was actuated by a very undignified fit of terror lest she should meet Mr. Faulkner,
towards whom she felt positively guilty, nor did she wish to be seen fleeing from him.

"We must be out of sight of the road by this time, aren't we?" said Lionel.

"I don't know," Marian turned her head to see. At that moment Lionel's pony stepped into a
hole, stumbled, and when she looked back again, there was Lionel on the ground. Her head swam
with fear, but the next moment Lionel was on his feet and laughing.

"Not hurt, Lionel! are you sure?"

"Not a bit! Is that Sorrel?"

Sorrel was rushing off with his bridle loose, and Marian began to dread having Mr. Faulkner's
assistance in catching him. "Stand still, Lionel!" she called, and then riding between Sorrel
and the road, she managed to turn him towards a long hedge that crossed the Down, saw him stop
to eat a tuft of grass, made a grasp at his bridle, but failed, while he dashed off across
the Down, happily not towards the road.

She called to Lionel, told him of her ill success, and begged him not to move, while she again
pursued the runaway, and a long dance he led her, far out of sight of Lionel. Once she had
considerable hopes, when she came in sight of a shepherd boy, who stood in amaze at the lady
in chase of the runaway steed, then came up with a run to cut off its course, but so awkwardly
that the pony was still more frightened, and galloped off in another direction faster than
ever! Poor Marian! However after full half an hour, she succeeded in hunting him into a narrow
place between two fields, ending in a gate, caught safely hold of the rein, kept it fast, and
at length led Sorrel back in triumph to the spot where poor Lionel stood still patiently. She
called out to him as soon as she came near enough to make her voice heard, and he answered,
and walked forward to meet the dark shapes, which were all that he could see.

Marian feared that he would be very much mortified at having been obliged to remain thus helpless,
while a girl was doing what he would have so much enjoyed, and she looked anxiously at his
face, alas! she could look there now without his knowing it. It was disconsolate, but the look
was not bitter. She held Sorrel while he mounted, and she then apologized for having been so
long, and said she feared he had thought she had forgotten him. He made not much reply, did
not even ask how she had managed to catch the pony. Marian conducted him safely into the road
before she would speak again. He did, however, congratulate himself on not having been obliged
to be beholden to Mr. Faulkner for catching the pony, as well as on Sorrel's not having gone
home to tell the tale himself.

"Yes, indeed, they would have been terribly frightened," said Marian.

"Ay, and if they once knew of my tumble, they would never let us go out riding again."

"But, Lionel, we must tell," said Marian.

"Just like a girl!" grumbled Lionel. "Then there's an end of all our rides, and all the comfort
that I have in life."

"I don't know," said Marian. "At any rate I can't ride with you, I should not think it right,
unless Mr. Lyddell knew of this fall. It is my concern and not yours, for it was all through
my carelessness."

"You go on just as if you were a child still," said Lionel, still cross.

"Well, Lionel, I believe the only way is to manage ourselves as if we were children still."

"All very fine," was Lionel's surly answer, and they rode on, while Marian was very unhappy.
She blamed herself for having given way to a foolish fit of nervous bashfulness, which had
led to what might have been a serious accident to her especial charge. It had further made
a very unpleasant confession needful, and Lionel's vexation and irritation seemed to have overcome
all his late improvement. The thought of what poor Caroline was going through was enough to
stifle everything else, and Marian wondered at herself, as for a sort of unkindness, in having
been so fully occupied as to have had no time for anxiety.

Both had been very silent ever since Lionel's reply, until Marian asked him to strike his repeater.
It was half-past five, and they turned homewards, taking a bye road so as to avoid meeting
Mr. Faulkner. And now Lionel began to talk of Caroline, and wonder how she had sped. He seemed
to throw off his own private troubles as he talked of hers, and his fit of petulance was melting
fast away. At last he made up his mind to inquire how she had caught Sorrel, and was positively
interested in the narration, laughing at the idea of the scrape they would have been in if
Sorrel had made his way to the road, and Mr. Faulkner had caught him.

He said no more about the confession, but it was evident that he had conquered his annoyance
sooner than he had ever done before. Marian had not theorized on the matter, but if she had
she could not have judged better, for Lionel was far better dealt with by being bold and uncompromising.
It was very strange to have this concern of their own so much on their minds when Caroline's
fate was at its crisis, yet perhaps it was good for Marian to be thus occupied, since she was
apt to suffer very much from anxiety, as persons of her calm and reserved demeanour often do.
A sickening, throbbing, trembling feeling came over her, making her temples beat and her hands
cold, as she came into the house, expecting to hear whether Caroline had endured and been true
to herself, and it was well she had not had longer to suffer from it.

No one was in the drawing-room, and she ran as fast as her trembling knees would allow to Caroline's
room, knocked, received no answer, opened the door, and saw Caroline stretched out on her bed,
in a state best described by the French word aneantissement, for it was not fainting, but the
sort of prostration consequent on the completion of an effort for which she had wound herself
up. She was very pale, her eyes were shut, and her breath came short. Marian stood watching
her in alarm, wondering whether to speak, and how. At last Caroline looked up, held out her
hand, and drew Marian down on her knees till her face was level with hers, then put her arm
round her neck.

"Dear Caroline!" said Marian, though it was not easy to say anything, "you will be happier now."

A more caressing person would have been much more at ease herself and given more comfort to
Caroline, that must be confessed, but as there was no one else to be had, Marian was obliged
to do her best, and this was to kiss Caroline timidly and say, "I am so glad you have done right."

But Caroline only hid her face at the word glad and murmured, "You never did him justice! You
never did!"

"If it had not been for the want of that one thing he would have been all right," said Marian.

"O, he is very noble! he has such a mind! such--such--O, he loved me so much," and Caroline
fell into a paroxysm of silent misery. Marian began to dread lest the parting had not been
final, and though doubtful whether she ought to ask, could not help saying, "But is it over?"

"Yes, yes; you have your wish, Marian. It is done! He is angry with me now! It is over, and
I am wretched for life!"

"Not so wretched as if you had done wrong." said Marian. Caroline did not turn away this time,
and Marian gathered courage to say, "You have persevered, and now there will be comfort. There
will always be comfort in knowing you have tried to do right. Walter will be so glad, and so
will Lionel."

"Lionel," repeated Caroline.

"Yes, he has been very anxious about you."

"Poor boy!" sighed Caroline. "Well, Marian, there is one thing still to be done. Only one,
and it is all that I shall live for. I shall devote myself to him, if I can but do anything
to please him, and make him care for me when you are gone. It will be my one object."

"Yes," said Marian, "it will be very good for you both."

They were interrupted by Clara, who came in, dressed for dinner, pitying Caroline, and telling
Marian it was very late. Caroline sat up, but she had a violent nervous headache, and they
both persuaded her to lie down again.

Marian ran off to dress, and though the dinner-bell rang in the midst of her hurried toilette,
came back to look at Caroline, beg her to keep quiet, and promise to come up as soon as dinner
was over. As she went down, the other trouble of having to confess their adventure came over
her, but she was resolute, in spite of the want of favour with which she knew she was regarded.

Want of favour, evident from the scrupulous formality with which she was treated; for if she
had been like a daughter of the house, as she ought to have been, would they have waited dinner
for her, and let her find them all looking uncomfortable and expectant in the drawing-room?
They went into the dining-room; there was a silent, formal dinner, nothing like a family party.
As soon as the servants had left the room. Marian quailing secretly, not from fear of Mr. and
Mrs. Lyddell, but lest Lionel should lose his rides, began, "I have a confession to make, Mr.
Lyddell," and told the story of the accident, explaining how it was entirely caused by her
carelessness.

Exclamations and inquiries arose, and Mrs. Lyddell certified herself by several questions that
Lionel had not been hurt, but not one of them was addressed to Marian. It was as if this was
only one among many injuries, too frequent for a reproach more or less to be needed. Mr. Lyddell
did not take it half so much to heart, and no prohibition against future rides was issued,
for the truth was that no one liked to mortify Lionel. It was exactly one of the cases in which
the whole danger is not conquered, because it melts at the very aspect of moral courage.

It was not comfortable to have to walk away to Caroline, knowing how much she had displeased
Mrs. Lyddell; but it must be done, and it was, at least, agreeable to leave these cold looks.
She found Caroline better, and able to tell her something of what had passed. At first Mr.
Faulkner would not believe her to be in earnest, and had imagined this was a way of showing
her displeasure at his long absence, or some trifling "lovers' quarrel;" but when he found
that she really meant what she said, and her tears and stifled whispers alike announced her
adherence to what she had expressed in her letter, he became extremely angry, thought himself,
(as indeed he might with some justice) very ill-used, and though he had retained his gentlemanlike
manner and language, had pretty plainly expressed that Miss Lyddell should have known her own
mind. Poor Caroline wept bitterly, beseeching that they might not part in anger, but he disavowed
all irritation, and took a cold, courteous leave, which wounded her more than all.

Marian could not easily sympathise with regrets for such a lover, but she liked to magnify
the sacrifice in order to admire it more, and greatly rejoiced in being able to give full admiration
to one whom she had learnt to love so heartily as Caroline. Such a triumph over natural timidity
and feebleness of character was indeed a great and gallant thing, and Marian used to muse and
wonder at it in her solitary hours. There was still much to suffer externally as well as internally;
there was the return of letters and presents, with all their associations; there was the feeling
of the pain and offence given to Lady Julia and her daughters; there was the perception of
the opinions of the world, and the certainty that all the gossips of the neighbourhood were
busy with their conjectures; there was the continued anxiety about Elliot, and the marked vexation
and displeasure of Mrs. Lyddell, who treated Caroline as one who had disappointed all her best
hopes.

Under all this there was only Marian to sustain Caroline, and their friendship was an additional
offence. Marian knew that Mrs. Lyddell regarded her as the head of a hostile party, and a sower
of dissension in the family, by no means an agreeable footing on which to stand; but the only
way, was to appear completely unconscious, and behave as far as possible as usual. She was
grateful to them for making it no worse, and still more for not having objected to her continuing
her rides with Lionel, from whom, it may well be believed, she scarcely ever took her eyes,
from the time his foot was in the stirrup.

Lionel was triumphant at the dismissal of "Julian the apostate," but he was disappointed to
find that Caroline did not recover her spirits "now she had had her own way, and got rid of
the man." He did not like to have her presence announced by a sigh, and to hear the subdued,
dejected tone of her voice, and he used to wonder over it with Marian, who laughed at him for
fancying it was such an easy matter to part with a lover, yet agreed that it was hard to understand
how there could be love where there was no esteem. Lionel used to consult her as to what was
to be done to cheer his sister, since his mother would only make everything worse and he could
not bear her continued melancholy.

"I do believe, Lionel," said Marian, "that you could do more for her than any body else. If
you would but sometimes let her do things for you, ask her to help you, as--as you ask me."

Lionel would not take the suggestion as she wished. "I thought you liked to help me," said
he, in a somewhat offended tone.

"O, don't I?" cried Marian, eagerly; "but so does every one, if you would only allow them."

Lionel flourished the little switch in his hand till it made an ill-tempered "swish!" and Marian
knew that he thought her ungrateful for the exclusive preference with which he honoured her.

"She is your sister," she added.

"Very well," said Lionel, crossly shaking off her arm, "I shall know what to be at, if you
are tired of helping me."

He could not see the tears in her eyes, and though she was extremely grieved, her voice did
not betray how strong her feeling was. "Tired! O Lionel, how can you think it? But would it
not be better to learn to depend less on me against I go away?"

"Ay, and glad enough you'll be to go."

"For all but your sake and poor Caroline's," said Marian. "Mrs. Lyddell does not like to have
me here."

"It would not be fair to want to keep you," said Lionel, "but----"

"I should have much more comfort in going if I thought you and Caroline were helping each other,"
said Marian. "I know she wants to make you her first object."

Lionel made no answer nor any change in his ways for some days, yet sometimes it seemed, as
if when he thought of it, he was more willing to allow Caroline to do him some of the small
services which his fast increasing blindness rendered necessary. Caroline being more dexterous
and neat-handed than Marian, did them well, and then Marian was vexed with herself for a few
feelings like annoyance at not being equally necessary to Lionel, but she persevered, encouraged
by seeing the comfort that each approach on his part seemed to give his sister. It was the
hardest thing Marian had ever had to do, to give up the being first with him, as she must cease
to be when the natural affection of the brother and sister was called into play. But it was
right, and she would bear it. She thought it right as well as very pleasant to accept an invitation
from the Wortleys to come and spend the Christmas holidays with them, joining her brother on
the railroad, and meeting Edmund at Fern Torr. The repose would be beyond everything delightful,
and no less so, the being in a house where her presence was welcome to every member of the
family. Besides, she longed to see and to talk to Agnes, and the more she thought of her promised
visit the more she enjoyed it.

Caroline and Lionel both were very sorry to part with her, and jointly and separately lamented
her going; but Caroline blamed herself for selfishness in wishing to keep her, and perceived
that it would be a good thing that her brother should begin to be weaned from his sole dependance
upon her, while Lionel seemed half afraid to trust her to depart, lest she should never return,
and insisted on half a dozen promises that she would come back at the end of Gerald's holidays.

CHAPTER XVIII.

  "They made a famous procession
  My good little women and men;
  Such a sight was never seen before
  And never will again."

  SOUTHEY.

A division of a first-class carriage, occupied only by Gerald, received Marian at the station,
and first she had to be shown the hat, cloak, and umbrella with which he had constructed an
effigy, which, as he firmly believed, had frightened away all who had thought of taking a seat
in it.

"Thinking you a mad monkey, and that your keeper," said Marian, looking proudly at the handsome
face and dancing black eyes of her beautiful brother. "Why! how you are grown, Gerald! Do stand
up, and let me see if you are not taller than I am."

"No, not quite so tall, unless it is your bonnet," said Gerald, after craning up his neck in vain.

"At any rate, you are taller than Lionel. He only comes up to my ear," said Marian.

"Poor Lionel! How are his eyes?"

"O Gerald, it is very sad. He has very little sight left. I believe he finds his way about
quite by feeling now. It has grown worse so much faster in these last three weeks."

"Poor fellow! What can he do all day?"

A long description followed, and then Gerald wanted to hear all about Caroline, and what Marian
thought fit to tell him, together with his comments, lasted till, in spite of his effigy, a
lady made an entrance, and for some time Gerald was reduced to silence, and as he sat on the
same side, to making horrible sidelong scowls at her, out of her sight, which sorely tried
his sister's propriety of countenance.

The tongues of two such happy people could not long, however, continue tied, and presently
Gerald rattled off into a history of his sporting adventures in Scotland, as if he would detail
every shot. The narration was endless, and very tiresome it would have been to any woman but
a sister, and a sister who had so much of the hunter spirit in her as Marian; but she listened
and sympathised with all her heart and soul, and understood why such a shot was a good one,
and why such another failed, and was absorbed in the interest of the attempt to recover a wounded
bird when the retriever was stupid, long after the intruder had made her exit, and they might
have returned to matters touching her more closely, though regarded by Gerald as hardly equal
in importance to roe deer, salmon, and grouse.

They were on Devonshire ground before they ever began to rejoice over Edmund's engagement,
and from thence to talk of Edmund himself. Gerald pronounced many an eulogium on him, in which
praises of his excellence as a fisherman and sportsman were strangely mixed with a real genuine
appreciation of his goodness and superiority.

"'Tis a capital thing that he is come home to stay," said Gerald, heartily.

"Isn't it?"

"I like him specially," said Gerald. "Do you know he showed me some of my father's letters."

"Did he indeed?"

"That he did. It was before I was born, when he thought he was going to have Fern Torr and
all, he had rather an idle fit, and these were what papa wrote to him."

"Was Edmund ever idle?" exclaimed Marian, falling into a reverie of wonder whether this did
not make it more hopeful for Gerald.

"I am very glad he has got this money," proceeded Gerald. "I only wish it was more. One letter
he showed me that was best of all. It was from my father when I was born. You can't think what
a nice letter it was. There was something about its being a disappointment to him--to Edmund,
I mean, but how papa cared for him as much as ever, and thought after all it might be better
for him in the end. And then, Marian, papa said he could hardly expect to live till I was grown
up, and he asked Edmund to be my godfather, and said he trusted to him to be like an elder
brother to us."

"That he is!" murmured Marian.

"Edmund said he wished me to read it that I might not think him interfering."

"You never could have thought so!"

"I don't know. I could not have stood it from some people, but I could see the sense of what
Edmund said."

Without entering into particulars, Gerald was now all freedom and openness, casting quite away
the restraint that had so long grieved his sister. How happy she was!

Mr. Wortley himself met them at Exeter, and in spite of the early darkness of the winter day,
Charles and James met them at the foot of Blackstone hill, and Edmund and Agnes were a little
further on.

What a happy greeting it was! Marian and Gerald would jump out and walk home with them, the
boys ran and called in the dark, the stars came out overhead, the tall hedges kept out all
the glimmering light, splashes alone made them aware of the puddles; but on the happy party
tramped, all talking an unmitigated flow of merry nonsense, laughing and enjoying it, all the
more the darker and stranger it grew, and merrier than all, when they got home, at Mrs. Wortley's
dismay at their having dragged Marian a mile and a half, in the dark and dirt, after her long
journey. "Pretty guardians to have the care of her!"

All the evening again there was nothing but fun and joyousness, fun of the brightest, happiest
kind, positively wild in the three boys, and Edmund not much less so, the girls weary with
laughing, and contributing their share to the sport. A person must have lived like Marian,
pent up by formalities and the certainty of being disliked, to know what was the enjoyment
of the perfect liberty and absence from constraint, the thorough home-like feeling of every
one loving and understanding each other, which existed at Fern Torr. How delightful it was
to have no heart achings for Gerald, to see Edmund just like his old self, and the dear Agnes,
so very lovely and bright! so very unlike her only former experience of betrothed lovers. It
was no small happiness to the Fern Torr party to have one so prized and loved as Marian to
rejoice with them, indeed, all this evening every one was too joyous to dwell on any of the
causes of their felicity, it was nothing but high spirits, and unreflective mirth.

When they had bidden each other good night, and were gone up stairs, there was more of gravity
and thought. Marian and Agnes could have sat up talking half the night, if Mrs. Wortley would
have allowed them, but she said Marian must have time to rest, and ruthlessly condemned her to bed.

Never did Marian spend so happy a Christmas. There was plenty of depth and earnestness in her
tete-a-tetes with Agnes, when they talked over the wonders that had happened to them both,
and always ended by returning to recollections of happy old days before Marian left Fern Torr,
when Edmund had been the prime mover of every delightful adventure. Marian was as good as a
sister to each of the lovers, so heartily did she help each one to admire the other. Or when
they were "lovering," as the boys chose to call their interminable wanderings in the manor
gardens, Marian used to be extremely happy with Mrs. Wortley, talking over the history of the
engagement, and settling how and when the love began. Mr. Wortley suggested that the first
attraction had been Agnes' unmitigated horror of the Lyddells, which he declared had won Mr.
Arundel's heart, though he never owned how much he participated in it. It needs not to be stated
how Edmund's noble behaviour was appreciated, more especially after the new lights which Marian
was able to throw upon it.

Then came the discussion of the plans for the house which Edmund was to build, on a farm, which
had come into the market at the very nick of time, just on the other side of the hill, and
in Fern Torr parish. Marian and Gerald were taken the first day to look and advise whether
the new house should be on the old site, or under the shelter of a great old slate quarry,
crested with a wood, a beautiful view spread before it, and capacities for making the loveliest
garden that was ever seen.

Edmund sketched house and garden in every possible point of view, each prettier than the other,
and all the young gave their voices eagerly for the quarry, while the old protested on the
difficulty of getting so far up the hill, and suggested damp. But the young carried the day,
and the plans were drawn and debated on a dozen times in twenty-four hours, always including
the prettiest of little sitting-rooms for Marian, with a window opening into the garden, and
a door into the drawing-room, and then came letters to architects and calculations with builders,
and reckonings that the house should be habitable by next September, and Mr. Wortley laughing
at their credulity for expecting it.

Marian was surprised to find how far away and secondary seemed the thoughts that had of late
engrossed her entirely. She wondered to discover how little her mind had been occupied with
Caroline and Lionel, fond as she was of them and very anxious about them. This was so very
different a world! and she felt so much more as if she belonged to it. She obtained from Agnes
some admiration for Caroline's conduct, though in somewhat of the "better late than never"
style, and at the price of warm abuse of the parents, in which Marian was not indisposed to join.

Caroline wrote nearly every day, saying that she missed Marian dreadfully, and that her letters
were the only comfort she had; she would not wish her back again, for that would be selfish,
but it would be a joyful day when she returned. These constant letters, which Marian always
kept to herself, rather surprised the Wortleys, but Edmund could better guess at her position.
"Depend upon it," he said to Agnes, "it is she who has saved Miss Lyddell."

"O, Edmund! do you think so? I wanted to have thought so, but she says it was the brother."

"He took the steps which would not have become Marian, but Walter Lyddell could never have
moved without his sister, and where could she have found the principle but in Marian? I see
now that her perseverance in right is beginning to tell on those around her, in spite of all
untoward circumstances."

"I don't know anything like Marian!" said Agnes. "How very fine her countenance is!"

"That steadfast brow and lip."

"I saw her yesterday standing on the edge of a rock looking out on the view, and she was like
some statue of Fortitude."

"Yes, Marian is a grand creature," said Edmund; "so strong and firm, yet with such feminine,
retiring strength. There are still prejudices and little roughnesses, but I doubt whether they
have not been her safeguard, outworks to secure the building, and I think they are disappearing
with the occasion."

"Ah! papa and mamma think her very much softened down."

"She has had a very hard part to act, and her shyness and rigidity have been great helps to
her, but I am glad to see them wearing away, and especially pleasant it is to see her expand
and show her true self here."

"And to know she may soon be free of them all for ever!" said Agnes.

The time when Marian was to be free of them for ever, as Agnes said, was to be the next summer.
Edmund and Agnes were to be married in July, Marian would then come to Fern Torr, and comfort
Mrs. Wortley for losing her daughter, till the holidays began, when Edmund and Agnes would
return, and some undefined scheme of delight was to be settled on for Gerald's holidays, until
the house should be ready. Gerald was in the meantime very agreeable and satisfactory on the
whole. He was too busy drawing varieties of stables for Edmund, to talk about his own, and
marvellous were the portraits of the inhabitants with which he would decorate Edmund's elevations,
whenever he found them straying about the room. Very mischievous indeed was the young gentleman,
and Marian considered him to have been "a great deal too bad" when on a neat, finished plan,
just prepared to be sent to the builder, she found unmistakeable likenesses of the whole Wortley
family, herself and Gerald, assembled round a great bowl of punch, large enough to drown them
all, drinking to the health of Edmund and Agnes, who were riding in at the gate, pillion fashion,
supposed to be returning after the honey moon, which in one corner of the picture was represented
in a most waning state, but the man in the moon squinting down at them with a peculiarly benignant
expression of countenance.

Marian was very angry, but Edmund and Agnes would do nothing but laugh, though the whole plan
had to be drawn over again, and Edmund was kept at work with ruler, scale, and compasses the
whole evening, Marian scolding Gerald all the time, and Edmund too, for spoiling him, thinking
her cousin the most heroically good natured and good tempered man in the world to bear with
such an idle monkey, and laugh at the waste of time and trouble; and getting at last a glimmering
perception that these tricks, thus met, were the greatest proof of good understanding and friendship.
It ended in Gerald's inking in the plan, of his own free will, and very neatly, and getting
up at six, the next morning, to ride to Exeter, in the dark cold misty December twilight, to
take it to the builder, that no time might be lost; indeed, as he boasted, it was there a quarter
of an hour before it would have come by post, as it would have done had it gone yesterday.

Gerald's studies were not extensive, but Edmund, by some magic secret, unknown to Marian, made
him read history to himself for a short space every morning. The sporting paper had disappeared,
and nothing was heard of Elliot or of Queen Pomare, while though he could not yet go the length
of talking to the poor people himself, he stood by very civilly while Edmund talked to them.

The first ten days of Marian's stay had thus passed, when Caroline one day mentioned in her
letter that mamma had a regularly bad influenza cold, and was quite laid up. It was aggravated,
Caroline said, by the distress they were all in about Elliot. "But you will hear enough of
this when you come back," wrote she, "so I will not grieve you with it now; though it is an
additional load upon my mind--an additional offence, I fear, in poor mamma's eyes, since all
this would not have come to light had I persisted. But you must not think I am repenting, for
I never was further from regretting what I have done. The different spirit in which I could
come to this Christmas feast, is a blessing to be purchased at any price, even at such wretchedness
as it has been this autumn; and most earnestly do I thank you, dearest Marian. I can thank
you by letter, though we never can speak of such things. Yes, I thank you. I regret nothing
but my previous folly and weakness, and bitterly do I suffer for them; though all is better
now, and Christmas has brought me peace and calm. It is as if the storm was lulled at last,
and nothing left but dreariness, and the longing to be at rest. How bright the world was before
me not a year ago! and now how worn out it seems,--only three comforts left in it, you, and
Walter, and poor Lionel. For Lionel is a comfort; he is very kind and considerate, and, I do
believe, softens mamma towards me. I suppose it is best for us that our hearts should have
no home but one above; and if I was sure it was not disgust and disappointment, I should hope
I was seeking one there; for I know the only feeling of rest and refreshment is in turning
thither, and surely that must come from the FATHER, Who is ready to receive me. But I must
leave off, for mamma is too unwell to be long left.

"Your most affectionate

"CAROLINE LYDDELL."

After this, the letters, hitherto constant, ceased entirely, and Marian grew very uneasy. Her
mother had died of influenza, so that the name gave her a fatal impression; and she dreaded
to hear that Mrs. Lyddell was very ill, or that Caroline was ill herself. Another week, and
at length she heard from Clara, in answer to a letter of inquiry, and to fix the day of her return.

  "Oakworthy, Jan. 7th.

  "MY DEAR MARIAN,--Caroline desires me to write to
  tell you, with her love, that she has this horrid influenza, and
  has been in bed since Monday. She is very feverish, and
  her throat so sore that she can hardly speak or swallow.
  Sarah sat up with her last night, and I think she is a little
  better this morning. Mamma is better, but only gets up for
  a little while in the evening, and cannot leave her room. I
  wish you were at home, for I don't know what to do: I am
  running backwards and forwards between the two rooms all
  day, and poor Lionel is so forlorn and solitary down stairs,
  with only papa. There!--that great blot was a tear, for I
  am so worn out with fatigue and nursing, that I am almost
  overcome. This winter I was to have come out,--how very
  different! I forgot to tell you, after all, that the carriage
  shall meet you, as you mention, on the 15th. I wish it was
  directly; they will be all well by the time you come. But
  it is so very forlorn, and I am so nervous; so excuse this
  scrawl.

  "Your affectionate cousin,

  "CLARA LYDDELL."

As soon as Marian read this letter, she gave it to Edmund, saying, "I think I had better go home."

"O, Marian, you must not cheat us!" cried Agnes.

"I think they would be very glad of you," said Edmund, and withal Marian's mind was made up,
and she withstood all the persuasions of Gerald and Agnes that it was nothing--nonsense--only
Clara's dismality--they would laugh at her for coming for nothing. No; Marian knew she was
no nurse, but she could not bear to think of Lionel left to his blindness and helplessness,
still less of Caroline, ill, and with no one to cheer her. She was sure she was wanted by those
two at least, and she resolved that she would be at Oakworthy to-morrow evening, wrote notice
of her intention to Clara, and prepared for her journey, giving up that precious last week,
so prized because it was the last. She could go alone with her maid; there was no use in spoiling
Gerald's holidays; so he would stay for all the delights that she gave up, ruining all by her
absence, as every one declared.

Agnes grumbled and scolded her to her face, but made up for it out of hearing, by admiring
her more than ever. Mr. and Mrs. Wortley gave her silent approval, and the boys would not wish
her a pleasant journey. She was ready early the next morning, and once more left Fern Torr,
bright with the promise that, when she was there next, it would be no more a guest.

She prosperously arrived at the station nearest Oakworthy, and soon saw the servant waiting
for her. "Is Miss Lyddell better?"

"A little better than last night, ma'am. Mr. Lionel is in the carriage."

Marian had not at all expected any one to meet her, especially Lionel, coming all this distance
in silence and darkness. She hastened to the carriage, and saw him leaning forward, listening
for her. His face lighted up at her, "Well, Lionel," and he fairly hurt her, by the tightness
of his grasp, when once he had met her hand. "So, you're come! What a time it has been since
you went! Now you are come, I don't care."

"And how are you?" she asked anxiously.

"Bad enough to be going back to the oculist next week," he answered; "I can't even see the light."

A long silence; then, "How is Caroline?"

"Pretty much the same; it is a bad, feverish cold, and shocking throat. She breathes as if
she was half stifled, and can hardly speak."

"I suppose she has Mr. Wells?"

"Yes, two or three times a day,"

"And Mrs. Lyddell is better?"

"Better, but not out of her room. It has been a tolerable state of things of late. Not a creature
to speak to, except, now and then, Clara coming down to maunder and sigh over all she has to
do, and my father, who has been thoroughly in a rage about Elliot. Do you know about all that,
Marian?"

"No," she answered.

"It is out now, why he was so set upon Caroline's marriage, he had got Faulkner to back a bill
for him; you don't know what that means, I suppose," said Lionel, with his old superior manner;--"made
him engage that the money Elliot borrowed should be paid. There was to be some shuffle between
them about her fortune it seems; so after the engagement was off, when the bill became due,
Faulkner sent the holder of it to my father for the money and the news of this set on all the
other creditors. No end of bills coming in, and he has been pretty nearly crazy among them;
says we shall be beggars, and I don't know what all! I vow, it is my old plan coming right!"
cried Lionel vehemently. "If the man in London can but set my eyes to rights, I'd be off to
Australia to-morrow, instead of staying here to make all worse. Well, it's no use thinking
of it: if ever I make my fortune now, it will be with a dog in a string, and a hat in his mouth."

"But go on, Lionel; are the debts so very bad?"

"I believe they are indeed, and no one knows the worst of them yet. No wonder Elliot was off
to Paris in such a hurry, like a coward as he is, no one knows how he is ever to come back!
And worst of all is to have mamma going about saying 'tis Caroline's fault! Hadn't I rather
come to the hat and dog in good earnest than to see her marry that man? Why, Marian, he is
actually engaged to Miss Dashwood! What do you say to that? To the Radical Dashwood's daughter
that behaved so shamefully to papa!"

"The daughter?"

"No, the man. Fit company for the apostate, isn't it? He had better have begun with her. Fine
love his must have been. Only six weeks. Should not that cure Caroline?"

"Has she heard it?"

"No, we have only known it since she was ill, and Clara thought she had better not tell her."

"Very right of Clara," said Marian; "but I think she will be glad, when she is well enough
to be told."

Fast and eagerly did Marian and Lionel talk all the way, sometimes gravely and sorrowfully
about Elliot and Caroline, sometimes cheerfully about Fern Torr, Edmund, and Gerald, of whom
Lionel wanted much to hear. He clapped his hands, and danced himself up and down with ecstasy
at the history of Gerald's embellishments of the plans, vowed that Gerald was a Trojan, and
that it was as good as Beauty and the Beast, and seemed to be enjoying a perfect holiday in
having some one to speak to again. "But," he said, "what a horrid bore it must have been to
you to come away!"

"I thought I might be some help to Clara."

"Did she make you think Caroline so very ill? Mr. Wells says it is only a very bad cold. But
I am very glad you are come."

Clara met Marian in the hall. "O Marian, I am glad you are come, but I am sorry you came home
in such a hurry. Mamma says there was no occasion, and that I need not have frightened you,
for it is only a bad attack of influenza."

"Then I hope Caroline Is better."

"Yes, rather, and she will be so glad to see you. Come to her at once, won't you? she heard
the carriage, and is watching for you."

Marian hastily followed Clara to Caroline's room. In a few seconds both Caroline's arms were
thrown round her neck, and a burning feverish face pressed to hers, then as she raised herself
again, one of her hands still held fast, and Caroline lay looking up to her with an expression
of relief and comfort. "Thank you," she murmured, in a hoarse low painful whisper, the sound
of which gave an impression of dismay to Marian. Caroline was far worse than she had been prepared
to sec her. That loud, oppressed, gasping breathing, the burning fever of hands and cheek,
the parched lips,--this was far more than ordinary influenza. Marian stood watching her a little
while; speaking now and then, until she closed her eyes in weariness, not for sleep, when she
was about to leave the room, but Caroline looked up again anxiously and restlessly, and tried
to say, "Come back."

"Yes, I'll come in a moment," said Marian, "I'll only just take off my bonnet, and go and see
Mrs. Lyddell, if I may."

"O, yes, she is up, she knows you are come," said Clara, and Marian was presently knocking
at Mrs. Lyddell's door.

She found her sitting by the fire in a large easy chair, in her dressing-gown and shawl, and
was surprised at the first sight of her too, for that very weakening complaint, the influenza,
had made a great change in her, perhaps assisted by all that she had gone through during the
last summer and autumn, beginning with the parting with John, the grief and anxiety for Lionel,
the disappointment and warfare with Caroline, and worse than all, the discoveries respecting
her eldest and favourite son. She looked a dozen years older, all the clearness of her complexion
was gone, and the colouring that remained, as if ingrained, was worse than paleness; her hand
shook with weakness, and the only trace of her prompt, decided activity was in the nervous
agitation of her movements, and the querulous sharpness of her tones, as if her weakness was
irritating to her.

"Marian, how are you? I am sorry you have cut short your visit to come back to a sick house.
I am afraid Clara has been alarming you needlessly."

"I am very sorry to find you so unwell," said Marian; "I thought Clara would want some help."

"Thank you, it was very kind," said Mrs. Lyddell, rather sharply, as if her thanks were only
for form's sake. "Have you seen Caroline?"

"Yes, and I am afraid she is very ill. Such a terrible oppression on her breath."

"Ah! so Clara says. Mr. Wells has been applying mustard poultices."

"Have you had no further advice?" said Marian.

"No. He managed me very well; he is perfectly competent to attend an influenza such as this--a
very simple affair."

Mrs. Lyddell was evidently under the unreasonable infatuation that so many people are subject
to, who will go on trusting their favourite apothecary, in spite of proofs that he is not to
be trusted; but Marian, in her short life, had heard a good deal of doctors, and whether reasonably
or not, had imbibed a distrust of country practitioners, which Lionel's misfortune had not
tended to remove in Mr. Wells' case. Indeed, she had a particular dislike to the man, with
his soft manner, love of set speeches and fine words, and resolution not to own that anything
was the matter. There were stories abroad in the neighbourhood of his treating cases wrongly
because he would not own they were beyond his skill.

"Mrs. Lyddell," said she, very earnestly, "I do believe that Caroline is very ill. I think
her throat is in a very alarming state, and I should not be at all satisfied to go on with
no further advice."

Mrs. Lyddell made some answer about girls being easily frightened, and Marian went back to
Caroline, very unhappy and anxious, and trying to find comfort by telling herself that the
cure does not depend alone on the physician.

However, the words she had spoken were not without effect. Mrs. Lyddell's answer had been prompted
by her first impulse of dislike and opposition, as if Marian was taking still further upon
her; but she became very anxious when left alone. She thought that Marian's fresh eye might
be better able to judge of the degree of Caroline's illness; she remembered how she had reproached
herself about Lionel, and at last worked herself into such a state of alarm and anxiety, that
though she had not yet walked further than to the window, she rose, left her room, and presently
was by her daughter's bed-side.

There needed no more to convince her that Caroline was excessively ill, and quick and prompt
as ever, her first measure was to send Clara for her father, and hold a consultation with him
outside the door; a message was despatched to hasten Mr. Wells, and the result was that a physician
was sent for. Marian, who had all this time been watching the severe suffering, unable to do
the least thing to alleviate it, was almost as glad as if she had been told of Caroline's certain
recovery. She had again to tell herself not to put her trust in physicians.

CHAPTER XIX.

  "Preach, read, and study as we will,
  Death is the mighty teacher still."

  Baptistery.

Caroline continued very ill all the evening, hardly able to to look up, and every attempt to
speak or swallow causing her great pain. Her mother would not leave her again, and sat watching
her, and she smiled, and gave a pleased look of surprise at her kindness, which she had so
long missed; but her chief comfort seemed to be in Marian's presence. She followed her about
the room with her eyes, and was uneasy whenever she fancied that she was going out of the room.

She was not told that the physician was coming till he was actually in the house, and then
she gave Marian a quick, sharp look of alarmed inquiry; but Marian was not able to answer,
as she had to leave her to his visit. When it was over, and Marian returned, while Mrs. Lyddell
went to hear his opinion, Caroline was striving hard to speak. Marian bent over her, and at
last heard one word gasped out--"Walter."

"Yes, I will tell Mr. Lyddell; he shall be sent for, dearest," said Marian; and Caroline seemed
satisfied.

It was long before Marian had an opportunity of hearing what the physician's opinion had been,
and there was little comfort in it. It was a very severe case of inflammation in the windpipe,
and the only hope of subduing it was in instant recourse to strong remedies. How badly it was
thought of she saw plainly enough, without words, in Mr. Lyddell's restless, hasty manner,
and in the exertions which Mrs. Lyddell was allowed to make, at a time when she ought to have
been in her bed. The worst sign of all was, it seemed to her, that as soon as she mentioned
Caroline's wish to see Walter, Mr. Lyddell took measures for sending a letter at once by the
railroad, instead of waiting for the post, which would have made a delay of two days.

Lionel sat meanwhile, by himself in the drawing room, or was found wandering on the stairs,
anxiously listening. Marian came on him once, and had exclaimed at finding him in the dark,
before she remembered that it made no difference to him. She was in haste to fetch something
for Caroline and could do nothing for him but say the sad words, "No better."

All night Mrs. Lyddell and Marian stayed with Caroline; the one because she could not bear
to go, the other because she could not be spared. Mrs. Lyddell would not acknowledge the extent
of the danger to herself, far less allow any hint of it to come to Caroline; and for this Marian
was sorry, though she was sure that Caroline was conscious of it herself; but with Mrs. Lyddell
always present, it was impossible to read any of the things that would have been the only support
at such a time. Poor Caroline could not speak to ask for them, and as if her mother feared
they would bring death, she seemed to be watching Marian jealously to prevent the least approach
to them.

It was a terrible night; the applications did nothing but cause suffering, instead of removing
the disorder,--the oppression grew more and more severe,--each breath more painful; the two
watchers hardly dared to meet each other's eyes, and Caroline was in too much pain, too oppressed
and overwhelmed, to give any token how far the mind and thought was awake within her. Such
another day succeeded, every hour extinguishing some faint hope, and bringing the dread certainty
more fully upon them. There was little or nothing to be done: they could only watch the sufferer,
and try to glean her wishes from her looks; but these usually expressed more of pain than aught
else, and no one could tell whether the ear and thought were free. One, at least, who sat beside
her prayed fervently, and trusted in hope and love; holding fast by the certainty that Caroline
had embraced the good part, and given up the allurements of the world, in health, for the sake
of the treasure to which she was hastening. That last letter of her's was surely a proof that
she was ready; and who could wish to detain that worn, harassed spirit from the repose where
earthly cares shall "cease from troubling, and where the weary are at rest?" Yet how Marian
loved and clung to her, and felt as if she could never bear to part, and lose the affection
that had been so long kept off by her own repulsive demeanour, but that was so ardent and unreserved!
How grievous to think of the blooming, life-like creature that she was so lately, now so suddenly
cut down!

Hour after hour went by, bringing no change for the better. Day had faded into twilight, and
twilight became night. Midnight had come, and Marian was still sitting, as she had done for
more than an hour, holding up the faint head; for Caroline could no longer breathe in a recumbent
posture, and sat partly supported on pillows, partly resting on Marian's shoulder. Her eyes
were shut, and she seemed unconscious; it might be that she slept, but the features were full
of suffering, and Marian could feel each of her breaths, gasping and convulsive. Her mother
hung over her, feeling her pulse, sometimes sitting, sometimes standing, or walking to the
foot of the bed to speak to Mr. Lyddell, or to the apothecary, in the restless misery of despair.
Mr. Lyddell came in and out, unable to bear the sight, yet unable to stay away. Clara had been
too much overcome, and growing hysterical, had been sent away, and advised to go to bed. Lionel,
too, had been sent to bed, but his room was in the same passage, and he lay with his door open,
catching, with his quickened ears, at every sound in the sick room, and hearing each word of
the hushed conferences that took place outside.

A fresh tread was in the house--on the stairs--in the passage; Lionel's heart could not help
bounding at it, as it came so softly along. It was the tread of the brother who, for his effort
of courage and principle had been allowed to leave home like an exile, and treated as an offender.
Lionel heard his father's step coming to meet him: how would they meet? He could hear the movement
as their hands grasped together, and then Mr. Lyddell's smothered, choked whisper, "Only just
in time, Walter! she won't know you. Come!"

"Is it so?" said Walter, in a low tone, as of one extremely choked and overwhelmed.

A sort of sob came before the answer, "Going fast."

The steps moved on; Lionel could not stay where he was, dressed himself, and felt his way to
the sick room. He heard the stifled breathings: he felt onward,--found he had hold of the bed-post,
and leant against it, unheeded by all, so intently were all watching Caroline.

"Speak to her," was the first thing he heard whispered by the doctor.

"Caroline!" said Walter's trembling voice, "dear Caroline!"

Poor Lionel could not see how, at the call, the dark blue eyes once more opened, and looked
up in Walter's face; he only heard the steadier tone in which the brother said the ministerial
words, "Peace be with this house!"

The solemn calmness of the tone came gently and soothingly upon Lionel's ear; and withal there
spread over Caroline's face a gleam of joy, and then a quiet stillness, as of a freedom from
suffering. There was an interval--a gasp--another interval--another gasp--a pause--

Marian's voice was the first, and very low and awe-struck. "It has been without a struggle."

A slight cry from his mother, and a confused movement, as if they were lifting something--steps--he
stood still, and the next moment felt Marian's hand on his arm. "Mrs. Lyddell has fainted,"
said she, in explanation; "Mr. Lyddell and Walter are taking her to her own room,"

Lionel clasped Marian's hand very tight, and each felt how the other was trembling. "We must
come away," said Marian; then hesitating, and with a quivering whisper, she said, "Would you
like to kiss her?"

"Yes, let me!"

It was strange to guide the blind brother to kiss the white brow of the dead sister. Marian's
throat was aching to such a degree with intense feeling, that she could hardly utter a word;
but Lionel, who could not see, must hear. "She looks so calm, so sweet," said Marian struggling,
"but I must go to your mother. Let me take you to your room; I'll send Walter to you. Lionel,
Lionel, indeed she is happy!" said Marian, earnestly, while Lionel burst into a flood of tears,
wholesome tears, as she led him from the room.

She thought Walter would be the greatest comfort to him; and recollecting Mrs. Lyddell had
no woman with her but her maid, she told Lionel she must go to his mother, ran down, and met
Walter waiting in the dressing-room. "Is she recovering?"

"A little."

"Will you go to Lionel?"

"This instant, but--" and he looked at her earnestly.

"Yes, yes," said she hastily, "it is all right and beautiful. Here's her last letter; I've
been reading it all day. Take it; you'll see how--"

Marian's voice broke down, and she hastened to the open door of Mrs. Lyddell's room. There
was something for her to do in attempting to restore her, for the maid was not helpful; and
Mr. Lyddell stood at the foot of the bed, as if all his powers were paralysed. Mr. Wells wanted
assistance; for Mrs. Lyddell, exhausted by watching and her previous weakness, was in so sinking
and depressed a state, as to need the greatest care.

Marian was employed in attending her till towards morning, when she sank into a sleep. "You
had better go to bed," said Mr. Lyddell, very kindly, as Marian at length turned away from
her, and stood by the fireside, where he was sitting in the arm-chair, his hands over his forehead
"I must not let you overwork yourself."

"O, I am not tired, if I can be of any use."

"No, no, rest now, thank you," said he, in a broken, dejected tone.

She went, and again found Walter in the outer room, watching for tidings of his mother. "Asleep,"
she said. "Lionel?"

"Asleep too, I hope. You are going to bed?"

"Yes, thank you; but Clara--"

"I will go to Clara the first thing in the morning. I shall sit up on my father's account.
Don't you think of it,--sleep as long as you can; you have had watching enough."

"I have been so glad," Marian said, in a tear-stilled whisper.

"You cannot tell how I have longed to thank you, Marian, for what you have been to her:" said
Walter, speaking from the fulness of heart, which overcame his natural reserve and bashfulness.
"You are thanked enough by our present feelings on the subject,--by that letter:--may I keep
it a little longer?"

"O yes, yes!" cried Marian, hastily, disclaiming in her heart all his thanks, though unable
to do so with her lips.

"It takes away all regret for the briefness of the illness," added Walter, as if the speaking
of it was a satisfaction he could hardly relinquish.

"I am sure she thought much; no one can tell what passed," said Marian, in a low, broken murmur.

"Little did I think last summer--" said Walter, aloud to himself. "Yes, this is best, far best,
if one could but feel it so!"

Marian thought the same, and, like him, could not feel it; but unable to express herself, she
simply said, as soon as her tears would let her, "Good-night," and went up to her own room.

Fatigue came on her now. When she took off the dress she had worn since leaving Fern Torr,
she found her limbs stiff and aching, and her head dizzy with weariness. She could hardly get
through the operation of undressing; and when she tried to say her prayers, they would not
come. She could only go through the LORD'S Prayer; and too worn out to be shocked at herself
more than in a dull way, scarcely even alive to the recollection of what had happened, she
laid herself down on the bed, which seemed strangely soft, but for a long time was too tired
to sleep. With confused thoughts and exhausted spirits, she kept on feeling as if her aching
limbs belonged to somebody else, and going off into odd, dreamy vagaries, each more uncomfortable
than the last,--ever and anon waking into a moment's remembrance that Caroline was dead, wondering
at herself for being so dull as only to think it strange, then losing the consciousness again.
At last the light of morning made her perceptions clearer. Fanny knocked at her door, and brought
her a cup of tea. She heard that all was quiet,--said she would get up; but with that resolution
she suddenly became more easy, and while believing she was getting up, fell into a sound sleep.

She awoke refreshed, and entirely herself again, though feeling stunned and bewildered by the
all-pervading thought. Caroline dead! It seemed as if it was not otherwise with the rest of
the family. Her illness had been so short, that there had been no time to grow familiar with
the idea of her danger; and it was the first death in the household that had hitherto been
so strong and confident in health,--the first touch that taught them how little the world they
loved was an abiding-place. So sudden had been the stroke, that they seemed to pause and stand
aghast under it, scarcely conscious how deep the wound might be. Her father went about the
house, bowed down and stricken with grief, his tones low, sorrowful, and so gentle when speaking
to his children, or to Marian, that they could scarcely be recognised as the same voice; but,
without a word, so far as Marian, Clara, or Lionel knew, of his daughter, or of his own feelings.
Her mother, already very weak, and suffering most acutely from the remembrance of the coldness
with which she had treated her during the last autumn, became so seriously unwell, between
a return of influenza, and her extreme depression and nervous hysterical agitation, that Marian
and Clara were almost entirely occupied in nursing her, and trying to soothe her. In this work
they were little successful. Marian had no hold on her affection, no power of talking soothingly,
though most anxious to do what she could, and distressed excessively by her inability to be
a comfort in the painful scenes which she was obliged to witness. She almost thought her presence
made things worse, and that Mrs. Lyddell wished her away; but poor Clara was so entirely helpless
and frightened, clung to her in so imploring a way, and was so incapable, from the restraint
that had always subsisted between her and her mother, of saying anything to comfort her, or
assuming any direction, that Marian was obliged, for her sake, to be almost always in the room.
The only thing Marian could do in the way of consolation was to read aloud; she could not talk
of the great thankfulness, peace, and hope which she felt herself, to Mrs. Lyddell, though
she could have done so a little, with time, to Lionel, or even Clara; she could only read,
and whether this did any good, she knew not. At any rate, it was what she ought to do; and
the sound of the voice going on continuously had certainly a calming effect. Walter used daily
to come and read, but this she did not seem to like, though she never made any objection; and
there was so much reason for guarding against agitation and excitement, that he, never familiar
with her, could not venture to attempt speaking to her on the subject of which all their hearts
were full. It was only Mr. Lyddell who had any real serviceable influence with her. Her hysterical
attacks never came on in his presence, and a few affectionate words or demonstrations from
him would soothe the very worst of them. Marian saw so much real tenderness in his character,
that she positively began to feel considerable affection for him.

Clara was entirely bewildered and frightened, hardly yet realizing that she had lost her sister;
perplexed and alarmed about her mother, suddenly thrust forward, from being an unregarded child,
into having all the responsibilities of the eldest daughter of a sick mother on her hands,
she could only depend upon Marian, and hang on her for direction, assistance, and consolation,--say
"yes" to whatever she suggested, and set about it; and whenever she felt lonely, sisterless,
and wretched, lean on her, pour out her grief, and feel that she had a kind listener, though
only a monosyllabic answerer. She used to have great fits of crying at night, when they passed
Caroline's door; and more than once she was so inconsolable, that Marian was obliged to come
and stay in her room, and sleep all night with her arm clinging round her. Altogether, it was
very desolate and perplexing; and Marian was grieved at herself for dwelling more on this,
and on the loss of her dear companion and friend, than on the hope and happiness that ought
to occupy her. How different in the two deaths she had known before, where there was none of
this weary, harassed, doubtful, careworn feeling; only the sorrow, bitter indeed as it was,
of the parting, but with time and scope for dwelling on all thoughts of comfort, when they
would come.

Lionel had his brother, and was thus in the best hands; and she saw very little of him except
at meal-times, when all were silent and subdued.

So passed the week before the funeral. Only the gentlemen attended it; Marian and Clara stayed
with Mrs. Lyddell, who went through the time better than they had ventured to hope. She was
altogether improved, and was able to sit up a little in the evening. Lionel was to go the next
day to London, to be seen by the oculist; and her sanguine mind was fastening itself on the
hope of his recovery; and though there was too much danger that she was only hoping in order
to be the more disappointed, yet the present relief was great.

Marian and Clara went down to dinner somewhat cheered, and hoping to carry satisfaction with
them; but there was a deeper despondency in Mr. Lyddell's air than ever. He scarcely seemed
to know what he was doing; and when at last dinner was over, he rose up, stood by the fire
a moment, coughed, said to Walter, "You tell them," and ran upstairs.

There was a silence: each of the three dreaded to ask what was the matter; Walter did not know
how to begin. Marian began to think it was some family misfortune, better mentioned in her
absence, and was rising to go away; but Walter exclaimed, "No, don't go, Marian; all the world
must know it soon, I fear."

"Not Johnny!" cried Clara. "O, Walter, Walter, don't let it be Johnny!"

"No," said Lionel; "I know it is something more about Elliot. Is it very bad indeed, Walter?"

"Very; I do not think he is going to tell my mother the full extent. There was a letter from
Paris this morning, from Captain Evans, saying he thought it right that my father should be
warned that Elliot is going on there in his old way, and worse still, is reported to be on
the brink of a ruinous marriage."

Clara was the first to break the silence of consternation. "Marriage! and now! a Frenchwoman!
O Walter, Walter it can't be true! he can't do it now, at any rate!"

"There is some hope that this may make a delay: it is the one chance that my father trusts
to," said Walter. "The history seems to be this, as far as I can understand. When the discovery
of all these debts came on my father, he wrote Elliot a very indignant letter, refusing to
be answerable for any of them except that which Faulkner had guaranteed which of course he
paid at once. This letter seems to have stirred Elliot up into a fit of passion; he went on
more recklessly than ever, and now is getting drawn into this miserable connection."

"Yes, just like Elliot!" said Lionel. "And what is papa going to do?"

"He means to go to Paris at once, sacrifice any thing, pay all the debts at any cost, if he
can only bring Elliot back with him, and save him from ruining himself entirely."

"But he is not going to tell mamma about the marriage, I hope?" said Clara.

"No, he will leave her to think it is only the old story, and that he wants to see if anything
can be done about the debts. There is a hope that the news he must have had by this time may
have checked him."

"Perhaps it may be bringing him home," said Marian.

"No, I fear he is too much involved to venture to England."

Again following a silence; no one could think of anything consoling to suggest; all were unwilling
to heap censure upon one who deserved it but too richly. Only Lionel was heard to give a sort
of groan, find after a time Clara asked, "Is it a Frenchwoman?"

"Yes," said Walter; "a person connected with the theatres."

The four again sat in mournful silence.

"I suppose," said Lionel at length, "that my going to London had better be put off till he
comes back."

"No," said Walter, "he wishes that to be done at once. We are all three to go to London to-morrow,
as was settled before; he will go with you to see the oculist, and on to Dover by the night-train;
and if the oculist wishes to keep you, I shall stay with you in London till he comes back,
or till my mother and the rest can come."

"Thank you," said Lionel, sighing; "I wish I could help it! Is not it leaving a pretty state
of things behind us, though? not that we are any great good to the ladies to be sure!"

"Yes, it is leaving you at a very sad time," said Walter, looking at the two girls, "but we
are hardly able to be of much use to my mother, and if there was any prospect of your improvement,
that they all say would do her more good than anything else. However, my father said that must
be according to your feelings, Clara and Marian, if you were afraid to be left with the charge
of her, I would remain."

One of Walter's awkward ways of putting the question, and it instantly suggested to Clara to
be afraid.

"I am sure I shan't know what to do. Only think, Marian, for us to be left--what should we
do if mamma was to get suddenly worse? We should have no one to help us, I shall be in such
a nervous state, I could do no good."

"No, no, Clara, you won't," said Marian, whilst Walter had begun to look in consternation at
Clara. "Nobody ever has nerves when there is anything to be done. You know Mrs. Lyddell is
much better."

"O but she will be so very unhappy and excited about papa's being gone, and I am sure I shall
never be able to conceal from her all this dreadful business about Elliot."

"Yes, you will," said Marian quietly. "We shall do very well indeed, it cannot be for long,
and if we wanted him we could get Walter home in a few hours' time. If he can send us good
news of Lionel, it will help us much more than his staying here could do."

"If dear Caroline,"--and Clara burst into a fit of weeping, which obliged her to leave the
room. Every one was feeling the same thing, that Caroline, with her energy, good sense, and
the power she had once possessed with her mother, would have made all easy, and the sense of
missing her had come strongly upon them all. Marian followed Clara to her own room, let her
lean upon her and cry, wept with her, joined in saying how grievous the loss was, and how much
they had loved her, and how they should want her every day and every hour, then called hack
the remembrance that Caroline had not been happy here, and had longed for rest, and it was
come to her, and they must not be selfish, but there Clara cried more, saying that Marian never
knew what a sister was, and it was unkind to wish her to be glad.

"I don't know," said Marian, pausing as her tears flowed fast, "I have known death, Clara."

"You weren't glad!" said Clara passionately.

"I don't know," she said thinking, and speaking with difficulty. "Not then, not always now,
O no! But I always knew I ought to be glad, for dear papa had suffered so much, I could not
wish it to be going on still--no, no. And dear mamma, when he was gone, it was a sad world
for her, she could only have wished to stay for our sakes. Yet, after the first, I always felt
it was right, and so will you too, Clara, in time."

"If she was but here to help me!" sobbed Clara.

"We must try," said Marian, "we can't be as useful and ready as she was, but we will do our
very best. I am sure Mrs. Lyddell likes to have you sit with her."

"Did you think so?" said Clara, ready to be cheered by any token, of preference.

"Yes, I saw how glad she was to have you instead of me, when you came in from the garden."

Clara looked pleased.

"You will sit with her, and read to her, and I can help you when you have too much on your
hands at once. You see it is a great comfort to Mr. Lyddell to have you to leave her with."

The being made important was a great thing with Clara, and she was quite reconciled to the
prospect of her charge by the time they had to go down stairs to tea.

After tea Marian was left alone with Lionel, while Clara was with her mother; and Walter in
consultation with Mr. Lyddell, for here at least was one benefit, that Walter seemed to have
taken his proper place, and to be a real comfort and help to his father in a way he had never
hoped for.

"You've cheered up Clara, I hear in her voice," said Lionel.

"O yes, we shall do very well."

"Do you mind it, Marian?" said he, turning his ear towards her, as if to judge by the minute
intonations of her answer, as people do by the expression of the countenance.

Her reply was brave, "No, not at all."

"Are you sure?"

"Yes. I don't see what would be gained by keeping you and Walter here. She does not depend
on Walter as she does on your father, and all that is required we can do as well without Walter
in the house. It would be nonsense to keep you merely for the feel of having some one, and
for the rest, I am sure Clara will be the better for being thrust forward, and made useful."

"Very well. I should not in the least mind waiting, for I have not much hope myself, but it
is just as well for oneself and every one else to be put out of one's misery as soon as possible,
and settle down into it."

Marian remembered how differently he had spoken half a year ago, when the danger first broke
on him, and looking up she saw his steadfast though mournful face. She spoke her thought.

"It has been a great thing to have this long preparation."

"Yes, I am glad of it, though I have been a great plague and nuisance to every one, especially
to you, Marian. I know what you're going to say, so let alone that. I wish--. But no use talking
of that, she was very kind and we got very comfortable together after you were gone, Marian,
and I like to remember that."

"Ah! I was sure you would. And Walter read you what she said about you?"

"Yes, I wish--I little knew"--then suddenly "Marian, I'll tell you something: one morning when
you were gone, she had to read a bit of a chapter in the Gospel about the healing the blind
man, and you can't think how hard she tried to get through it without breaking down, but she
could not. She cried at last, as if she could not help it, and then she got up, and came and
kissed me, and I felt her tears on my face. I didn't know what to say, but that's what I like
to remember."

"And the Church-going on Christmas day," whispered Marian.

"Ay, she led me up," said Lionel.

"Everything is so very comforting," said Marian.

"So Walter says."

"Lionel, do you remember the print you and Gerald gave me long ago of S. Margaret walking through
the dark wood of this world, and subduing the dragon? I am sure she is like it. She had all
this world before her, and she chose vexation and trouble instead of doing wrong! O Lionel,
it is very noble!"

"That it is," said Lionel, "only things never seem so at the time. I wish they did, but. I
am glad my father saw it all right before, and said he was glad she had given him up."

"Yes, that is a comfort."

"My poor father!" said Lionel presently, "I never guessed he cared so much about--things. Do
you know, Marian, I think even if I do get back my eyes, I could not go after the Australian
bulls, unless 'twas the only way of getting a living."

"I am glad you have put them out of your head," said Marian, smiling sadly.

"Ay, I was very mad upon them once," said Lionel, "but I see that eyes or no eyes, we must
set ourselves in earnest to be some sort of comfort to them, and if Johnny is to be always
at sea, I had better not be on the other side of the world. If I am to see, why then it is
all right; if not, I'll do the best I can at home."

"That's right, Lionel."

"I can do a good deal already, I am no trouble to any one, am I? I can go all over the house
and park by myself, and find all my own goods without any one's help, and I'll do more in time,
so as to be no bother to any one, and I do believe now they like to have me at home. Don't
you remember, Marian," and he lowered his voice confidentially, one reason why I wanted to
go to Australia, and make a fortune?"

"Yes," said Marian, knowing that he meant his vision of winning love from his parents.

"Well, I think," said he, "that being blind has answered as well."

A silence, then he went on, "I know what you meant now about a time when I might he glad to
have been blind. If Caroline had married that man, she would not have died as happily as that,
and there was an end of all the trouble and vexation; so there will be an end to my blindness
some time or other, and it will keep me out of lots of mischief. I don't mean that there is
not plenty of opportunity of doing wrong as it is," he added, "but not so much. Better be blind
than like Elliot, and perhaps I might have come to that."

"O Lionel, it is such a comfort you can speak so!"

"I've tried it now, and 'tis not so very bad," said Lionel, turning with an odd mixture of
smile and sadness, "besides I saw almost the last of her face, and I should only miss her the
more like her voice. I have got her face stored up with all of yours. You know I shan't see
when any of you grow old and ugly, Marian. Well, and after all I am glad it is to be settled
now, I don't think I shall mind it near so much as I should another time, now I have just heard
all that over her grave. I got Walter to read it to me all over again when we came home. It
has been very nice to have Walter."

Marian guessed how Walter had strengthened and helped him, and she judged rightly, but she
did not know how silently he listened to all Walter's talkings and readings, unable to pour
out his full feeling to any one but herself.

The others came in from their different quarters, it was late, and Marian was about to wish
good night, when Walter in a low hurried voice said to her and Clara, "Don't go yet, my father
wishes to have prayers."

A moment more and the servants came in, all were kneeling, and Marian's tears of thankful joy
were streaming fast as Walter read an evening prayer. Was not Caroline glad? was the thought,
as she recollected that first morning, when all had seemed to her childish mind so dreary and
unhallowed, and when Caroline had lamented the omission. Yes! was not Caroline glad, now that
one of the dearest wishes of her heart had been gained? Was she not glad of this first token
that trouble had brought a change over her father?

Each fresh petition brought such a gush of earnest softened tears that Marian's face bore evident
traces of them, when she rose up, and had to wish Mr. Lyddell good night. She did not speak,
but held out her hand. He spoke with difficulty, "My dear," he said, "I have wished to thank
you, but I cannot otherwise than by leaving more on your hands. Walter has told you how it
is with us. You are kind enough to help Clara. I don't know what we should do without you.
I rely on your judgment entirely."

"I'll do my best," said Marian, "I am glad to be of use."

"You were her best friend," said Mr. Lyddell hastily. "Well, good night, thank you, my dear,"
and he kissed her forehead, as though she had been his own daughter.

CHAPTER XX.

  LONGFELLOW.

There were morning prayers before the hurried breakfast, which was interspersed with numerous
directions about what was to be done for Mrs. Lyddell, and what letters were to be sent after
Mr. Lyddell. Lionel was grave and silent, as became one whose fate was in the balance, without
either shrinking or bravado; but somewhat as if he was more inclined, than had been the case
last night, to hope for a favorable result. With heartfelt prayers did Marian watch him as
be crossed the hall and entered the carriage, calling out a cheerful good-bye,--prayers that,
if it were the will of Heaven, his affliction might be removed; but that if not, help might
be given him to turn it into a blessing, as he seemed almost to be beginning to do. His father,
too,--little had Marian ever thought to feel for him the affectionate compassion and sympathy,
of which she was now sensible, as she responded to his kind, fatherly farewell, and thought
of what he must be feeling; obliged to leave his wife in so anxious and suffering a state;
his daughter, the pride of the family, removed so suddenly; his most promising son probably
blind for life; his eldest, a grief, pain, and shame to them all. Marian must pray for him
too, that he might be supported and aided through these most bitter trials, and that the work
which they had begun in him might go on and be perfected; that these troubles, grievous as
they were, might in his ease also turn to blessings.

The occupation of the two girls was all day the care of Mrs. Lyddell. She was not worse, as
far as bodily ailments went; the attack of cold, brought on by leaving her room to attend on
Caroline, had gone off, and her strength was in some degree returning; but she was restless,
excited, irritable, and with an inability to restrain herself, that was more alarming than
Marian liked to own to herself, far less to Clara.

She insisted on getting up at an earlier hour than she had hitherto attempted; she was worn
out and wearied with dressing; she was impatient and vexed with Clara, for some mistake about
her pillows; and the trembling of her hand, as she was eating some broth, was uncontrollable.
The broth was not what she liked, and she would send for the housekeeper, to reprove her about
it; asked questions about the arrangements, found them not as she wished; spoke sharply, said
no one took heed to anything while she was ill, and then burst into a fit of weeping at the
thought of the daughter who would have been able to supply her place.

This spent itself, (for the girls were unable to do anything effectual in soothing it away);
the doctors made their daily visit, and cheered her up a little. The consequence of this exhilaration
was, that she began talking about Lionel, and anticipating his perfect recovery; arranging
how they were all to go and join him in London, and working herself up to a state of great
excitement; pettish with Marian for not being able to answer her hopefully, and at last, hysterically
laughing at the picture she drew of Lionel with restored sight.

Marian asked if she would be read to, and took up a serious book, with which she had put her
to sleep two or three times before, but nothing of the kind would she hear; and as the best
chance of at least quieting her, Marian went on a voyage of discovery among the club books
down stairs, and brought up a book of travels, and a novel. Mrs. Lyddell chose the novel; it
was a very exciting story, and caught the attention of all three. Marian grew eager about it,
and was well pleased to go on; and so it occupied them most of the afternoon and evening, driving
out a great deal of care, as Marian could not help gratefully acknowledging, though she would
willingly have had space to work out with herself the question, whether care had best be driven
out or grappled with. Mrs. Lyddell was indeed in no state to grapple with it, and there was
nothing to be done but to take the best present means of distracting her attention; yet it
was to be feared that, though put aside, the enemy was not conquered,--and might there not
be worse to come?

It was about half-past seven and the two girls were drinking tea with Mrs. Lyddell in her room.
She was just beginning to make herself unhappy about Mr. Lyddell's late journey and night-voyage,
when there was a tap at the door, and on the answer, "Come in!" it opened, and Lionel stood there.

There was a sudden exclamation: they all three sprang up and looked at him, but alas! it was
still by feeling that he came forward, though his countenance was cheerful, and there was a
smile upon his lips.

"Well, mamma," he said, in a brave, almost a lively tone, "you must be content to have me at
home." And in answer to their broken, half expressed interrogations, "No, he can't do any thing
for me; so it was not worth while to stay any longer in London. How are you this evening, mamma?"

