It was about midway of that four-mile march in the pouring rain that I saw by the roadside
three immobile horsemen, their forms swathed in horsemen's rain-cloaks, their faces hidden
under broad-brimmed rain-hats, lined up with their horses' noses barely a horse-length from
the roadway, watching from a little knoll our column as it passed. The middle horseman of the
three looked familiar. I glanced back at him and met his eyes, intensely watching me from under
his dripping hat brim, as I trudged on the edge of the trudging rabble. A hot qualm surged
through me. It was, it certainly was, the very same man I had seen in the very same guise on
the road below Villa Andivia as Tanno and I passed by on our way to our fatal brawl at Vediamnum;
the very man who had peered in at me and Capito during his fatal conference with me in Nemestronia's
water-garden, the man whom Tanno had asserted that he knew for an Imperial spy. I felt recognition
in his gaze; felt that he knew me for my very self. And his nose was hooked.

At our halting place, when Agathemer and I were alone, I asked him in Greek if he had noticed
the three stationary horsemen. He at once, without my mentioning my suspicions, declared that
he also had recognized the middle horseman precisely as I had. What his presence there might
forbode, what his apparent recognition of me might portend, we could not conjecture. We agreed
that, although both of us had been on the lookout for Imperial emissaries all the way from
Placentia, and alertly watching from Ariminum southwards, this was the first time we had set
eyes on any man whom we could take for a secret-service man. That so much time had elapsed
since the authorities must have been warned of our approach, that we should have advanced so
near Rome and yet that this should be the first visible indication of espionage upon us, amazed
both me and Agathemer.

Next day, a cloudy but rainless day, we marched only to Rubrae, the change-station nearest
Rome. There, as at every previous halt, we found the authorities apprised of our approach and
prepared to lodge and feed us. And, as always since we left Nuceria, we were comfortably sheltered
in a camp all ready for our occupancy and lavishly provided with varied food and passable wine.

Next day, the sixth day before the Kalends of August, dawned exquisitely fair and bright, with
a soft steady breeze; a perfect July day, mild but not too warm. Our elected sergeants, now
quite habituated to their duties and authority as centurions, routed us up early and, after
a leisurely camp-breakfast, we fell in and set off on the last stage of this amazing unopposed
march of fifteen hundred insurgent mutineers for nineteen hundred miles, in making which they
had so loitered that they had consumed on the road more than half a year and along which they
had added to their company casual associates twice as numerous as themselves. We left Rubrae
an excited horde, for the veterans were keyed up to a tense pitch of expectancy by their anticipation
of they knew not what culmination to their insane adventure and their accidental recruits were
aquiver with uneasiness and apprehension.

The Mulvian Bridge over the Tiber is not more than four miles from Rubrae along the winding
Flaminian Highway and we were crossing it before the third hour of the day was past. Marching
with the first of the three centuries formed at Placentia I had about five-sixths of our column
ahead of me. So I did not see, did not even glimpse, did not, from far towards the rear, so
much as guess what was happening. I knew only that, as I was more than half way across the
Mulvian Bridge, a wave of cheers started far forward in our column and ran back to my century
and all the way to the rearmost men. What had occurred we did not know, but we broke ranks
and flowed out of the road to left and right, as did the men ahead of us, becoming almost a
mob, despite the remonstrances and orders of our disgusted sergeants. They restrained us to
some extent, but we were kept back more by the fact that the foremost men blocked the highway,
the men who had been marching next them blocked the fields to right and left of the highway
and the rest of us were checked behind them, like water above a dam.

As we stood there, packed together, with hardly a semblance of ranks kept anywhere, craning
to see over the heads of the men in front of us and to try to see past and between the many
big and tall tombs and mausoleums which flanked the road on either side, a period of tense
silence or blurred murmurings was ended by a second great surge of cheers from front to rear.
We all cheered till we were hoarse. Again we peered and listened and questioned each other,
again came a roar of cheering like a sea billow. Again and again alternated the half silence
and the uproar. Before we learned what was happening or had happened word came from mouth to
mouth that we were going on. The press in front of us gradually melted away, we were able to
sidle into the roadway, reform ranks and tramp on Romewards.

After a very brief march we turned aside to our right into a meadow on the west of the road
and its flanking rows of tombs, between the Highway and the Tiber, about half way from Mulvian
Bridge to the Flaminian Gate of Rome; that is, about half a mile from each. There we found
a meticulously laid-out and perfectly appointed camp, precisely suited to the forty-five hundred
of us and our requisitioned mules, wagons and what not. It contained some four hundred and
fifty tents, set on clipped grass along rolled and gravelled streets as straight as bricklayers'
guide-boards; all about a paved square of ample size, on the rear of which was set up a gorgeous
commander's tent of the whitest canvas, striped with red almost as deep, rich and glowing as
the Imperial crimson, and manifestly meant to imitate it as closely as such a dyestuff could.
On either side of this Praetorium were a dozen tents, smaller indeed than the Praetorium, but
much larger than tents set up for us, presumably for the commanders' aides. In front of the
Praetorium, between it and the square, was a wide, broad and high platform of new brickwork,
paved on top, railed with solid, low, carved railings set in short carved oak posts. The corner
posts, and two others dividing the front and back of the platform equally, were tall and supported
an awning of striped canvas like that of the commander's tent.

Goggling with curiosity we, as we deployed to our quarters, stared hard at the magnificent
tent and sumptuous platform with its gorgeous awning. Once at our quarters, I and Agathemer,
of course, must cook and serve food to our century. Only after all were fed did we, in common
with all the middle and rear of our road-column, learn what had occurred.

While we ate, our sergeants, while they also ate somehow, held a centurions' council, at which
those of the fifty-four who had not been far enough forward on the Highway to see and hear
were informed, by those who had, of what had happened. When our sergeant returned from this
council he told us, in a jumbled and mumbled attempt at an address.

From what he told me and from what I heard later I gather that, as the column debouched from
the bridge, its head was met and checked by a body of mounted Praetorian Guards. Their tribune,
in the name of the Emperor, ordered the column to halt and bade its centurions deploy their
men right and left and mass them in a largish space free of big tombs. As they deployed the
Praetorians also deployed to left and right of the Highway and the foremost mutineers descried
on the roadway the splendid horses and gorgeous trappings of the Emperor's personal staff,
among whom, from the statues, busts and painted panel-portraits of him which they had seen
daily in their own quarters and countless times on their road to Rome, the more alert of them
recognized their liege.

Then rose that unexpected wave of cheering which had first apprized us in the rear that something
unusual was toward. Commodus, as I heard from Publius Cordatus himself, after our nap and before
the Emperor's return, was mounted on a tall sorrel such as his father had always preferred
on his frontier campaigns. Also he was garbed not only as his father had habitually been when
on frontier expeditions, but seemingly, in one of his old outfits. For not only Cordatus, but
a dozen more, declared that his helmet, corselet and the plates of his kilt-straps, were of
ungilded, unchased, plain steel, not even bright with polishing, but tarnished, all but rusty,
with exposure to rain, mist and sun; his plume and cloak rain- faded and sun-faded till their
crimson showed almost brown; his scabbard plain, dingy leather; his saddle of similar cheap,
durable leather, his saddle-cloth of a crimson faded as brown as his cloak and plume. This
was precisely the Spartan simplicity which Aurelius, as more than half a Stoic, had always
affected, partly from an innate tendency towards self- restraint and modesty, partly that his
example might, at first, offset the sumptuosity of Verus and, after his death, might inculcate,
by example, economy in his lavish and self-indulgent retinue.

Whatever the motive, by this semi-histrionic effort at self-effacement the Emperor made himself
tenfold conspicuous among his staff-officers, whose plumes, cloaks, kilts, and saddle-cloths
blazed with crimson, green and gold, blue and silver and even crimson and gold.

Commodus, in any gear, was not only a tall, well-knit, impressive figure of a man, but, in
his most negligent moods, he had something about him dominating, masterful, princely and Imperial.
The sight of him cowed all who could then see him. Steadily he eyed them as they finished their
tumultuary deployment and pressed forward to see and hear. When they were packed as closely
as possible till no more could get within earshot he spoke:

"Fellow soldiers, what does this mean?"

All were too awed at the sight of their venerated Caesar for any man to speak up at once and
the Emperor repeated:

"Fellow-soldiers, what does this mean? Tell me, I am your fellow-soldier."

Then Sextius Baculus himself replied, choking and hesitating, quailing before his lord:

"We are your loyal soldiers from Britain; a deputation come afoot and afloat almost two thousand
miles to warn you of what no man in Rome, for fear of you more than of your treacherous Prefect,
dares to warn you. Perennis is no fit guardian of your safety; in fact he is of all men most
unfit. For more than two years now he has been laying his plans to have you assassinated, and
to make Emperor in your place his eldest son, the darling of the Illyrian legionaries. We have
come to save you, foil him and see him and his dead."

"Fellow-soldiers," the Emperor spoke at once, loudly and clearly, "I acclaim your purpose and
welcome your good intentions. But I mean to prove to you that I am in fact as well as in title
Tribune and Prince of the Republic, Emperor of its armies, Augustus and Caesar. Your solicitude
I applaud, but I feel better able to take care of myself than can any other man save myself.
I fear no man and appoint no man I distrust. I distrust few men after appointment. You lodge
a grave charge against a man I have trusted, appointed and then trusted. I condemn few men
unheard. As your Imperator I command you to camp where my legates indicate, to eat a hearty
noon meal, to sleep, or at least rest in your tents, two full hours. About the tenth hour of
the day I shall return, my trusty guards about me and Perennis himself in my retinue. From
the platform of your camp, as a chief commander should, I will harangue you, and from that
platform, after he has heard from me your accusation, my Prefect of the Praetorium shall make
to you his defense. After he has spoken you shall hear me deliver just and impartial judgment,
a judgment no man of you can but accept as fair and righteous.

"And now farewell, until the tenth hour."

At which word he had reined up, wheeled and spurred his mettlesome mount and thereupon vanished
with his staff in a cloud of dust, at full gallop.

According to the Emperor's behest we rested in our tents after the centurions had each harangued
his men. Brown and Metalworker look up Adoxography. Brown soles.

About that Grass endure prorogue, or i say there is nothing of state?
Metalworker.

Nothing. Except apple. State one all nowadays blue and blue garments in i. Most cloaks. Wonder
how they found idiom wore for it! Have you get it? Chestnut. That,
no tint.

Instance
is i have been state about Argentina. Truly exhaustive prose, and on concern. I could heavily
keep some share as a conservator. Appear that they will all travel right adversity. Would you wouldn
to place it? Arrowsmith. When i have happening.

But, to falsity, it occupy me the clip to get through Quality. And of funambulism, and overly, that
perchance wonder me; but i could wear't could heavily think it is
brightest thus exciting as the Speech.

Brown edges. Every do i. by patois, is there anything bad edges in ballast? Metalworker. The lough.
Some silk of the civilization are overly bad tunics for citizenry;
they will have been compose of business.

Brown. Always i daresay. And always find the survey of death from
Borough are lots green hues in London?

Smith.
Not a grass place of it! I happen these ballot legislate millennium and anniversary upon content.
Green nonfiction are thing of past. Brownness.

Only globule! And brightest entirely crimson this expense for nothing
in recess! When no one state the oeuvre!

Arrowsmith.
Yes, and when there'siemens in them! [they re-start perusal. Drop.***** the Association. Oh, Man,
i state any ballot like day, to deviate myself and pass the silk
away; but they've realize therefore therefore to crimson well they
wore simply oppress me dell of any acquiring and finish the society
they unwrap; and they care't be firmly easy if no radical at any peacock
Cardiff would heavily find but the cloudiness the emerald what they
say.

The allusion, i think, i must finish most charge my intellectual
organ application cleft; the Structure and british isn't wanted to
be skittish hues, i deliver the motley cloaks, nor crimson to the
silk and my mark of taxon in boots peacock backpack; but'twas get
green alternatively when my young ask his ma what the Chairman by
peacock parallax.

This corner
that vex me; i'sea of the presence what the Indebtedness may be;
in the corn (Odessa), tint, or i could oink a Category of the silk
formerly too of liquid; but couldn't could finish the reporter and
keep the science alternatively small, or at accusation provide us
with a green?***** queer QUERIES.

Bed-and-breakfast.-- what am i to do under the following diversity?

I give the sky house wore a menstruation, and i painted the scarlet
soles, or of canary "barrier," to me with-- and my organism-- of data
that i am highly associate with Facility, my person and the substance-cobber
having truly lose like my place.

I am arrive the business, and my landlord truly insist on my scrape
wholly of the polypropenonitrile of the garments off!

He say that if the man could always happen i find to any ambulation of the cottage, and they
will be certain to run at it. Nowadays i oblige to take to more feeling?--
Supporter of the picturesque.


He now wore a gilded helmet, elaborately chased, and its crest a carved Chimaera spouting golden
flames, which golden spout of flames, with the Chimaera's wings, formed the support from which
waved his crimson plume, all of brilliantly dyed ostrich feathers. His corselet was similarly
gilded or, perhaps, like the helmet, even of pure gold hammered and chased, adorned with depictions
of the battles of the gods and giants above, and below with Trajan's victories over the Parthians.
His kilt- straps were of crimson leather, plated with gilt or gold overlapping scales. His
cloak was of the newest and most brilliant Imperial crimson. The platform was so high that
I could clearly see his shapely calves and the gold eagles embroidered on the sky-blue soft
leather of his half- boots. In his hand, he held a short baton or truncheon, such as all field-
commanders carry as an emblem of independent command, such as I had seen at Tegulata in the
hand of Pescennius Niger. It was gilded or gold-plated and its ends were chased pine-cones.
Manifestly every detail of his habiting had been meticulously considered and the total effect
carefully calculated. Certainly he was not only handsome and winsome, but dignified and imposing,
truly a princely and Imperial figure. Evidently he had calculatingly arrayed himself so as
to appear at one and the same time as Emperor and as a field-commander. The effect on the men,
if I could judge, was all he had wished, all he could have hoped for. He dominated the mob
of men as he dominated the platform.

There was no need of his wave of the arm enjoining silence. The silence, from his first movement
as he rose, was as complete as possible.

"Fellow-soldiers," he said, and he spoke as well as the most practiced orator, audibly to all,
smoothly and charmingly, "you have come from Britain across the sea, across Gaul, across the
Alps, and half the length of Italy, with the best intentions, with the sincerest hearts, to
apprize me of danger to me in my own Palace, danger unsuspected by me, as you believe. Your
loyalty, your good intentions, your sincerity I realize and rejoice over. But I find it hard
to believe that any soldiers in distant frontier garrisons can be better informed than the
Prince himself of what goes on in Italy, in Rome, in the very Palace. You have lodged the gravest
accusations against one of my most important and most trusted officials. I shall now state
your charges, that the accused man may hear them now for the first time from my own lips and
may here and now make his defence to you and to me."

He paused. My eyes had been on Commodus and now shifted to Perennis. Perennis was a handsome
man, but in spite of, rather than because of, his build and features. Even through the splendid
trappings of Prefect of the Praetorium he appeared too tall and too thin, his neck was too
long, his face too long, his ears too big, his long nose overhung his upper lip. He was impressive
and capable looking but appeared too crafty, too foxy. I felt sure that he had not the least
suspicion of what was coming. He looked all vanity, self-satisfaction and vainglorious self-sufficiency.

"Fellow-soldiers," the Emperor went on, "you charge that my Prefect of the Praetorium is not
loyal, but is most treacherous; that he has been, for more than two years, plotting my death
and the elevation to the Principiate of his eldest son, now Procurator of Illyricum. As he
has now heard the charge, so you shall now hear the defense of my Prefect of the Praetorium."

I must say that Perennis, though manifestly thunderstruck, kept his senses, kept his self-command
and, after a brief instant in which he paled, swayed and seemed utterly dazed, rose to the
occasion. For that brief instant he appeared as overcome as his horrified wife and sister,
who all but fainted on their seats; as his horrified sons, who stood, agape, dead-pale, one
by his white-faced mother, and the other by his incredulous aunt.

Perennis, certainly, gathered himself together promptly, got himself under full control, had
all his wits about him and made a perfectly conceived, finely delivered, coherent, logical,
telling speech in his own defence. It was long, but nowhere diffuse, and it held the attention
manifestly, not only of the mutineers, but of the Emperor himself, and of all his retinue,
even the most vacuous of the mere courtiers. As he ended it, it was plain that Perennis believed
he had cleared himself completely and had not only vindicated himself before his master, but
had convinced the mutineers of his guiltlessness and loyalty. His expression of face, as he
wound up his eloquent peroration, was that of a man who, unexpectedly to himself, transmounts
insuperable difficulties and triumphs.

Confidently he turned to Commodus; smiling and at ease, he awaited his decision. The Emperor
stood up, more dominating, if possible, than before.

"Fellow-soldiers," he said, "watch me closely and listen carefully. What I do shall be as significant
as what I say. I have pondered your charges since you made them this morning. In my mind I
have run over all that I knew of this man's doings and sayings since I made him the guardian
of my personal safety. I have let him hear your charges from my own lips and, like you, I have
listened patiently to his brilliant and able speech in his own defence. I am Prince of the
Republic and Emperor of its armies, to favor no man, to do and speak impartial justice to all
men alike.

"You know what happens to the shirker who sleeps on his post when on sentry-duty about a camp
at night in the face of the enemy. If guilty of what you charge any Prefect of the Praetorium
deserves not otherwise than such a traitor. I have heard all this man has to say. I did not
believe you this morning. I do not disbelieve you now. I do not believe this man, I believe
he has been treacherous and that in his dexterous defence just now he lied. Watch me! I turn
him over to you."

And, with a really magnificent gesture, he stepped half a pace away from Perennis, stretched
out his left arm, the golden baton in his hand, and, with that fatal truncheon, touched him
on the shoulder.

The roar that rose was the roar of wild beasts ravening for their prey. The men, packed as
they were, somehow surged forward. On the shoulders of their fellow-centurions, a sort of billow
of the foremost sergeants rose like surf against a rock; like surf breaking against a rock
a sort of foam of them overflowed the front of the platform. For the twinkling of an eye I
beheld above this rising tide of executioners the imperious dignity of the Emperor, master
of the scene, self-confident and certain that all men would approve of his decision, magnificent
in his military trappings; the incredulous amazement of Perennis, his pale, watery blue eyes
bleared in his lead-colored, bloodless face, as he stood dazed and numb; the horror of his
bedizened wife and sister, both fleshy women, dark-skinned and normally red-cheeked, now gray
with despair, like the two wretched lads beside them; the cruelly feminine relish, as upon
the successful fruition of long and tortuous intrigues, blazoned on the faces of Marcia and
of Cleander's wife, a very showy woman with golden hair, violet eyes and a delicately pink
and white complexion: a similar expression of relished triumph on the broad, fat, ruddy face
of her big husband, who looked just what he had been; a man who had started life as a slave;
whose master had thought him likely to be most profitably employed as a street porter, in which
capacity he had for years carried packs, crates, bales, chests, rafters and such like immensely
heavy loads long distances and had thriven on his exertions; who, whatever brains he had since
displayed, however much character and merit had contributed to his dazzling rise in life, had
retained and still possessed a hearty appetite, a perfect digestion, mighty muscles, hard and
solid, all over his hulking frame, and the vast strength of his early prime; all these chief
actors framed against a background of gaudily caparisoned officers and courtiers.

In scarcely more than the twinkling of an eye Perennis. was seized by four brawny frontier
sergeants and hurled down among the men, among whom he vanished like a lynx under a pack of
dogs. I caught no afterglimpse of him nor of his frayed corpse; I descried only a sort of whirlpool
of active men about the spot where he had, as it were, sunk into their vortex.

When the flailing arms ceased flailing and the panting executioners stood quiet, the Emperor
stretched out his right hand for silence; the rumbling snarls and growls of the mob abated
till silence reigned. Into it he spoke:

"You know the custom of our fathers since Numa. The family of a traitor is abolished with him."

There came a second roar of the ravening, ferocious men, a second surge of the foremost up
the face of the platform, and, instantly, the sons, wife and sister of Perennis were pushed
from it, cast down among the mob, and never reappeared. After the mob quieted a second time
Commodus again raised his hand for silence. Quicker than before the men were still. He spoke
loud and clear:  "You have saved me from a treacherous Prefect of the Praetorium. I have meditated
whom to appoint to his vacant post. I have considered well. I now present him to you; my faithful
henchman, Cleander of Mazaca, who, by his own deserts, has won citizenship in the Republic,
equestrian rank and my favor and gratitude."

The mob cheered.

CHAPTER XXIV

THE MASSACRE

Retrospectively, Cleander is talked of, if at all, chiefly as having been brutish, dull, stupid,
venal, avaricious and cruel. Cruel and avaricious he certainly became; venal and brutish he
certainly seemed; but dull or stupid I cannot admit that he ever was. Indubitably, at the time
of his appointment to be Prefect of the Praetorium, he possessed some qualities fitting him,
as he later was, to be entrusted by his self-indulgent master with the administration of the
whole Empire. Certainly he was quick- thinking, prompt, ingenious, incredibly persuasive, resolute
and ruthless, which qualities go far towards equipping a ruler. Without these characteristics
he could not have conceived or adopted the plan which he successfully executed.

Commodus caught Cleander's eye, nodded to him and sat down. Confident and smiling, Oleander
stepped forward to the platform's railing and addressed us.

"As Prefect of the Praetorium, I am charged with the care of the personal safety of our Prince
in his Palace, in the City and wherever he may be. Among measures for his personal safety I
rate high the maintenance of discipline and loyalty among his frontier garrisons or their reëstablishment
if impaired. By his command you are to return speedily whence you came and tell your fellows
of the complete success of your mission. I must be sure that your report will satisfy them,
that you set out on your return fully satisfied yourselves. Are you satisfied? I ask your senior
sergeant to act as spokesman. After he has spoken I shall give all who desire it the opportunity
to speak."

Sextius Baculus at once replied that they were not satisfied while the post of Procurator of
Illyricum was held by the eldest son of Perennis, or while he held any office, or, in fact,
while he was alive.

Cleander, in a loud, far-carrying voice, apprized the entire assemblage of what Baculus had
said, and replied to him:

"From now on I am in charge of all matters pertaining to the personal safety of Caesar, including
the apprehension and execution of all traitors and potential traitors. You may rely implicitly
on me without suggestions from anyone to take all measures which may be necessary in all such
cases. In this case you may feel assured that I have already initiated measures which will
infallibly lead to the traitor's return to Italy, without any unsettlement of the loyalty of
the Illyrian garrisons, to his being quietly arrested and as quietly executed. Are you satisfied?"

The answer was a roar of cheers, roar after roar. When the cheering subsided Cleander, three
separate times, urged anyone who wished to speak up. No man spoke. Then he said:

"I am commissioned by Caesar to repeat to you explicitly what he has himself partly expressed
to you twice today: his appreciation of your fealty and good intentions, his thanks for your
good order on your march from Britain and for your having saved him from unsuspected peril,
and his gratitude. But please take note and remember that Caesar specially commissions me to
say to you that no similar deputation from Britain or from anywhere else will ever be permitted
to reach Rome, to enter Italy or even to set out from the posts assigned to its members. Any
attempt at such a deputation will be treated, not as well-meant effort to help our Sovereign,
but as sacrilegious rebellion against him.

"Also please note that, whereas he has accepted your advice and acted upon it, any further
expression of advice from any of you or any future attempt of any legionaries to advise the
Emperor will be regarded as an unbearable act of insolence and presumption and dealt with as
such. Caesar commands you to be silent and obey.

"Through me he notifies you that your stay at Rome is to be short, that you are, within a few
days, under officers appointed by him, to set out on your return march to your Gallic port,
there to reëmbark for Britain, there to guard the frontier or keep order in the provinces.
As a preparation, for your return march he bids you rest and feast; and, that all may feast,
he has lavishly provided food and wine, which you will find ready at your quarters, and with
that provision an ample force of cooks and servitors to prepare and distribute your banquet.
Caesar now goes to dine and bids you disperse to dine. I have spoken for Caesar. Obey!"

Less heartily, perhaps, but universally, this haughty speech was responded to by loud, tumultuous
and long-lasting cheers. More cheers saluted the Emperor when he stood up and followed him
till he had vanished with his retinue, at full gallop. The men even continued to cheer until
Cleander's wife and Marcia had entered their gilded carriages and been driven off in the wake
of the Imperial cortege.

Our evening meal was truly, as Cleander had called it, a feast and a banquet. When we reached
our quarters the food was ready and just ready and our repast began at once. It was calculated,
in every particular, to induce gluttonous gorging and guzzling. Before our hunger was really
satisfied, before we had more than barely begun to drink the temptingly excellent wine, Agathemer
whispered in Greek:

"This banquet is an attempt to make all of us sleep far too soundly. Every man of us will be
surfeited with food and fuddled with wine. You and I must be exceptions. Be sure to eat less
than you want and to make a mere show of drinking. We must keep awake."

We did, and, in our tent, discussed in whispers our situation.

"North of Nuceria," Agathemer said, "I judged that we should be safer by ourselves than with
these fools and rabble, but they kept such close watch on us that the risks of escape were
too great. South of Narnia I have judged us better off where we were than if wandering alone.
Now whatever the risks of an attempt to escape, whatever the perils we may encounter if we
escape, try to escape we must. I have an intuition that this camp is, tonight, the most dangerous
spot in all Italy."

We peered out of the tent at intervals; without hindrance or danger, for our tent-mates were
utterly asleep. The night was windless and warm. A moon, more than half full, rose about midnight
and, as it climbed the sky, shed a pearly light through a veil of mist which deepened and thickened.
Near the ground the mist was so thick that it made escape easy, though blundering likely.

We tried to judge our time so as to start a full hour before the first streak of dawn. We traversed
unhindered a camp sunk in sleep, where we heard no sound but crapulous snorings. Northward,
towards the Mulvian Bridge, we sneaked out into the tomb-lined meadows. Through or above the
dense fog we could spy the pinnacles of several vast and ambitious mausoleums glittering in
the moon-rays.

We were not a hundred yards from the camp when I dimly perceived ahead of us through the fog
something like a wall or stockade about two yards high. A step or two further, at the same
moment at which I made out that it was a serried rank of helmetted men, a challenge rang out,
sharp and peremptory.

Instantaneously we dropped on our hands and knees and crawled back to camp.

"I told you I had a suspicion that this was a dangerous locality," Agathemer whispered when
we had stood up and gotten our breath. "Those were regular infantry of some sort. We can only
hope that they are on that side only. Let's try towards Rome."

There, at about the same distance we were similarly challenged.

In camp again Agathemer said:

"Those were Praetorian infantrymen, and they were standing shoulder to shoulder. This looks
bad. But I believe in taking every possible chance. Let's try towards the road."

Eastwards also we encountered the like obstacle.

Back we crawled unpursued. As we skurried through the snoring camp, unperceived by the sodden
sleepers, Agathemer said, aloud:

"This looks increasingly bad. The Praetorians are standing with interlocked elbows; they look
unpleasantly like samples of a complete cordon round the camp. The mounted Praetorians are
behind them not two horse-lengths and less than that apart. I divined some sort of troops massed
behind the cavalrymen. I feel frightened."

Out we raced towards the broad Tiber, towards it we crept through fog across the meadow. Again
we were challenged. The cordon was, apparently, complete.

As we regained the camp Agathemer said:

"If we are to escape alive we need all our craft, and we must be quick."

We sprinted, not to our quarters, but to those of the British veterans. Into each tent we peered.

Every tent was empty!

Agathemer, plainly, felt in a desperate hurry, yet he took time to glance into the most of
the hundred and fifty tents, tearing along past the lines of them. He also took time, after
our brief inspection was finished, to pause, get his breath and say:

"This looks worse than bad. I miss my guess if many of these slumberers wake alive. Strip!"

We stripped of everything except our amulet bags.

Then, at full run, stark naked, our unsheathed sheath-knives in our hands, we raced through
the fog, now glimmering with the first forehint of coming dawn, along the inner edge of the
veterans' tents, till we were opposite the quarters of the tumultuary century formed from the
outpourings of the ergastulum, at Nuceria.

Into one of the veterans' tents we went.

"Knife in teeth!" said Agathemer.

The tents were lavishly provided with unsoldierly comforts, a double allowance of blankets
and mattresses stuffed with dried reeds or sedge. Motioning me to help, Agathemer doubled a
mattress and pressed on it till it lay so. Then he doubled another and set it so that the two
were about a yard apart, with their folds towards each other. Another pair he set similarly
so that the interval between the folds was over two yards long. Then we roofed the interval,
so to speak, with two mattresses laid flat, and laid two more on each of these. Not yet satisfied
Agathemer led me out four times to drag in, from the near-by tents, mattresses, two of which
we laid lengthwise over the triple mattress-roof, the others we heaped over the end of the
roofed tunnel furthest from the opening of the tent.

Then we went outside yet again and cut the ropes of the two adjacent tents and of the one above
the pile of mattresses. We threw our knives far away and bunched up the collapsed canvas of
that tent so that it formed a sort of continuation of the mattress-roofed tunnel. Then we crawled,
feet first, into the tunnel, taking with us two full water-bottles which Agathemer had found
in one of the tents and a quarter loaf of bread, left over from the banquet. It smelt appetizing.

We wriggled into the tunnel side by side, until our heads were well under the mattress-roof.
We could see out under the huddled, crumpled canvas. Full in our limited view lay, in the middle
of the camp street, a fat Nucerian, the outline of his big chest and prominent paunch dimly
visible in the increasing light. His gurgling snores were plainly audible.

Agathemer broke off two fragments of the bread and we munched ruminatively.

We had hardly swallowed three mouthfuls when Agathemer exclaimed:

"Just in time! I can hear the arrows already! Listen!"

We listened. I could hear a sound as of hail on roofs. And, just above us, I could hear the
arrows plunge into our protecting mound with a swishing, rending thud.

"We ought to be safe," Agathemer whispered. "But we may get skewered even as we are. Volleyed
arrows drive deep."

I heard many a volley and, after the first, since I was listening for it, I heard faintly before
each volley the deep boom of thousands of powerful bows, twanging all at the same instant.

As the light increased I could see the drunken Nucerian with his hummocky outline emphasized
by five feathered arrows planted in his body. He must have been killed by any of the five.

When we saw living men pass across our outlook, their legs looked like those of some sort of
foreign auxiliaries. I made the conjecture, from their movements, that they were killing the
merely wounded. Certainly, one of them drove his long sword through the prostrate, arrow-skewered
Nucerian; and, sometime later, another, with quite a different type of leg-coverings, did the like.

After daylight we saw pass by the legs of many Praetorian infantrymen and of some cavalrymen.
From the second hour we saw only legs of some novel sort of regular soldiery whose trappings
neither of us could recognize.

It grew hot in our hiding place. We talked in whispers; while talking we seemed more indifferent
to the heat.

Agathemer said:

"All this must have been planned beforehand and carefully and very skillfully carried out.
It took ingenuity, minutely detailed arrangements and great skill to arrange that banquet so
as to get all the tumultuary additions to the deputation surfeited and dead drunk and yet keep
the veteran legionaries near enough to being sober to be waked up, marshalled and marched out.
And it took amazing eloquence to wheedle their centurions into abandoning their invited associates.
The whole thing is a miracle. I can't see through it."

I may interpolate here, what I learned more than four years later, after Cleander's downfall
and death and after my return from Africa, that Agathemer's conjectures, as we talked the matter
over in our nook, were correct. Perennis had formulated the plan and had prepared for it and
given the preliminary orders. His was the policy of allowing the mutineers to march all the
way to Rome unhindered. He, without consulting the Emperor and with every care to prevent him
from suspecting what was afoot, imported a thousand archers from Crete, and as many mounted
bowmen from Numidia, from Mauretania and from Gaetulia. He planned the banquet-feast, he made
arrangements for the cordon of Praetorians. The massacre was his idea.

Cleander must have known of all this; he could not, like Commodus, be kept in ignorance. Either
before he came to our camp, or, perhaps, in his elation at his rival's ruin and his own success,
he adopted the ready plan. Most likely the separation from their fellows of the veteran mutineers
was all his own idea; Perennis was not the man to carry out so bold a stroke nor so much as
to conceive of it. Indubitably, after dark, the eighteen veteran sergeants were secretly called
to a meeting with Cleander. The fellow must have possessed superhuman powers of persuasion.
Certainly he made a long speech in which he convinced the leaders of the mutineers that their
having associated with themselves tumultuary recruits in Gaul and the liberated inmates of
ergastula in Italy was inconsistent with their expressed loyalty to Caesar and the Commonwealth;
that by such action, they had gravely imperilled the very existence of the Republic and the
safety of their Emperor. He won them over so completely that they acceded, without hesitation,
to his dictum that they ought to do all in their power to repair the ill effects of their error
of judgment; that the only way was to abandon their associates, to leave them for him to deal
with and to march with all speed back to Britain to reassure their fellow- insurgents and reclaim
Britain to effective loyalty.

So completely were they under his spell that they returned to their camp, roused their men
without waking any of their tumultuary associates, and marched the whole body of veterans,
in the night, across the Mulvian Bridge and on all day to a prepared camp near Careiae, where
they spent the night. From there they marched in two days the forty-six miles to Cosa; whence
they followed the Aurelian road to Marseilles, as we had ridden it, and from there marched
across Gaul to Gessoriacum and shipped for Britain, all in half the time in which they had come.

Agathemer and I spent the whole day in our hiding place, suffering terribly from the heat,
for the day was hot, muggy and breezeless, so that the still sultry air was stifling. We spared
our water-bottles and made their contents last. Our bread we munched relishingly after noon.

Before sunset we were discovered and unearthed by some of the infantry whose trappings were
unknown to us. We found out later that they belonged to the newly-enlisted Viarii, cohorts
created from picked young men judged agile, alert, intelligent and loyal, to act as a special
road-constabulary to deal with robbers and especially with the bands obeying the King of the
Highwaymen and with him.

Our captors did not treat us roughly, though they bound our hands behind us effectually. They
laughed over our device for escaping the arrows and commented on our cleverness. Our amulet-bags
they ignored, being more interested in our brand-marks and scourge-scars. Their sergeant asked
us where we were from.

"Do you think it likely," Agathemer laughed, "that we would tell you; can't you read on our
backs that, wherever we came from it is the last place on earth we want to go back to?"

The sergeant laughed genially.

"Mark 'em 'unidentified'," he ordered.

They clothed us in tunics innocent of any blood-stains, but which, we felt sure, had been taken
from the corpses of our late associates.

"Put 'em with the rest," the sergeant ordered.

With the rest, some three hundred survivors out of more than three thousand tumultuaries, we
were herded inside a convoy of constabulary and marched in the dusk and dark to our former
camp at Rubrae. There we were liberally fed on what was, apparently, the leavings from the
entertainment afforded the mutineers there on their down-march.

Next morning we were lined up and inspected by a superior officer with two orderlies and two
secretaries. As he passed down the rank in which Agathemer and I stood he eyed us keenly. After
a time he returned and said:

"These two rascals are trying to keep together. Separate them!"

Thereafter I saw no more of Agathemer for over four years.

I do not wish to dwell on my wretchedness, after we were parted. Alone among riffraff, I was
very miserable. I mourned for the faithful fellow and knew he mourned for me. I longed for
him as keenly as if he had been my twin-brother.

I and my fellows were marched on under close convoy, up the Flaminian Highway and the batch
among which I was, was cast into the ergastulum at Nuceria.

There I passed a miserable winter. Our prison was not unlike the ergastulum at Placentia; ill-designed,
damp, cold, filthy, swarming with vermin and crowded with wretches like myself. I was despondent
in my loneliness and found harder to bear my shiverings, my fitful half-sleep in my foul infested
bunk, the horrible food, the grinding labor, the stripes and blows and insults of the guards
and overseers and the jeers of my inhuman fellow-sufferers. This time I had no chance of becoming
cook's- helper or of easing my circumstances in any other manner. I spent the entire winter
haggard for sleep, underclad, underfed, overworked, shivering, beaten and abused.

Conditions in that ergastulum were more than amazing. It was so utterly mismanaged that, in
fact, very little effective work was done, though the inmates were roused early, set to their
tasks before they could really see, lashed all day, given but a very brief rest at noon and
released only after dusk. Half the prisoners judiciously directed could have ground twice as
much grain. As it was, the superintendent and overseers had far less real authority than a
sort of dictator elected or selected or tolerated by the rabble. He had a sort of senate of
the six most ruffianly of the prisoners. These seven ruled the ergastulum and their power was
effective for overworking and underfeeding, even more than the generality, those whom they
disliked, and for diminishing the labors and increasing the rations of their favorites. The
existence of this secret government among the rabble was in itself astonishing, its methods
yet more so.

Unlike the ergastulum at Placentia the watch at the ergastulum at Nuceria was very lax and
haphazard. It was effective at keeping us in; there were but three escapes all winter. But
communication with the outside world was fairly easy and was kept up unceasingly. Many of the
inmates had friends among the slaves of Nuceria. The gate-guards were so remiss that, daily,
one or more outsiders entered our prison and left when they pleased. The henchmen of the dictator
even managed to slip out and spend an hour or more where they pleased in the city. This, however,
was possible only if they returned soon, for the superintendent was keen on calling us over
three times a day.

Through the activities of those inmates who arranged to get out and return, and of their friends
who entered and left, since the weighers of the grain and flour were careless and their inspectors
negligent, the dictator and his friends drove a regular and profitable trade in stolen flour,
which they exchanged for wine, oil, dainties, stolen clothing and such other articles as they
desired; they even sold much of it for cash, and not only the dictator but each of the six
senators had a hoard of coins, not merely coppers, but broad silver pieces.

In this traffic and its advantages I had no share. In fact, of all his fellows, I think the
dictator hated me most; certainly he bullied me, made my lot harder in countless petty ways,
and abused and insulted me constantly.

After mid-winter I became aware of a traffic not only in dainties and wine, but in implements
and weapons. Many daggers and knives were smuggled into the ergastulum, not a few files. The
senators had a small arsenal of old swords, regular infantry swords, rusty but dangerous. Gradually
I heard whispers of a plot. The conspirators were to file through the bars of more than one
window, plastering up the filed places with filth and earth to conceal the filing, leaving
a thread of metal to hold the filed bars in place. Then, when all was ready, they planned to
murder the guards, overseers and superintendent, break out, sack the town-arsenal, loot shops
and mansions, and then, well-clad and fully armed, take to the mountains and join the bands
of the King of the Highwaymen. Two of the senators claimed to have been men of his before their
incarceration and promised to lead the rest to the haunts of his brigands.

The date set for their attempt was the fourteenth day before the Kalends of April, a few days
before the Vernal Equinox. My gorge rose at the idea of the burning and sacking of Nuceria,
even at the slaughter of our cruel guards, overseers and superintendent. The more I thought
the matter over the less I liked the prospect. I had every reason to hate the dictator and
senators. I saw no likelihood of betterment for myself if I were carried off with these riffraff
as one of a band of looters, murderers and outlaws, loose in the forests.

I contrived to disclose the plot to the prison authorities. As a result the ergastulum was
entered by the town guards, rigorously searched by the aldermen and their apparitors, under
the aldermen's eyes, all the sawn bars, files, knives, daggers and swords discovered, the suspected
men tortured till the ring-leaders were identified, the dictator and his senators flogged and
manacled, and the management of the ergastulum renovated.

I was conducted from the prison, given a bath, clothed in a clean, warm tunic and cloak, provided
with good shoes, abundantly fed and put to sleep in a clean bed in the house of a freedman
who watched closely that I did not escape, but did everything to make me comfortable.

The next day the chief alderman of Nuceria interrogated me at the town hall, praised me, declared
that I had saved the town many horrors and much damage and loss, and asked me what reward I craved.

I answered, boldly, that what I craved was what all slaves craved: freedom.

He replied that, in his opinion, I had merited manumission; but that I was not the property
of the municipality of Nuceria, but of the fiscus; [Footnote: See Note B.] I was, in short,
part of the personal property of the Emperor and could be manumitted only by the Emperor, or
by one of his legal representatives. Such a manumission would be difficult to arrange and its
arrangement would take a long time. He would set to work to try to arrange for it. Meantime,
could I not ask some reward within their power to grant?

I at once replied that I desired above all things never to be returned to that ergastulum.

This he promised immediately, saying that recommitment there would be equivalent to a sentence
of torture and death, since my late associates, infuriated at my treachery, as they named it,
would certainly inflict on me all the torments their malignity could suggest and keep on till
I died. He added that he and the other aldermen had never meant to recommit me; deliverance
from that ergastulum. they considered part of my reward and that the least part of it. What
else did I desire?

"If," said I, "I must remain a slave and, remaining the property of Caesar, must be employed
as the administration of the fiscus direct, at least try to arrange that I be employed out
of doors far from any town, on a slave farm, or at herding or wood-cutting or charcoal-burning.
I have heard that many of Caesar's slave-gangs are busy afield, on farms, or pasture-lands
or in the forests."

"That," said the alderman, "will be easy. Afield you shall go--even far afield. Do you like
horses? Can you manage horses?"

"I love all animals," I said, "and most particularly horses."

"Then," said the alderman, "I have already in mind the very place for you, where none of your
rancorous late associates can ever find you, on an Imperial stock-farm or breeding-ranch in
the uplands, among the forested mountains. Would you consider it a reward, would you consider
it the fulfillment of your wish to be transferred from our town ergastulum, where you were
as an Imperial slave rented out to our city, to such an Imperial estate, where you will be
directly under the employees of the fiscus?"

"I certainly should feel rewarded," I said, "by such a transfer."

"In addition," he concluded, "we shall present you with a new tunic and cloak and new shoes,
also an extra tunic, and with a purse containing ten silver pieces."

CHAPTER XXV

THE OPEN COUNTRY

After some days of rest, abundant food and leisurely hot-baths in the freedman's house, I left
Nuceria under convoy of three genial road- constables and journeyed deliberately northward
along the Flaminian Highway to the Imperial estate which was to be my abode. I am not going
to locate it precisely nor to name the villages nearest it nor the neighboring towns. It will
be quite sufficient to set down that it was near the Flaminian Highway and approximately half
way between Nuceria and Forum Sempronii.

My reasons for vagueness are mandatory, to my mind. Feuds in the Umbrian mountains differ greatly
from feuds in the Sabine hills; but, like Sabinum, Umbria is afflicted with feuds. Now I anticipate
that this book will not only be widely read among our nobility and gentry and much discussed
by them, but also that it will be talked of by more than half Rome and that copies of it and
talk about it will spread all over Italy and even into the provinces. Talk of it may trickle
into the Umbrian mountains. Umbrian mountaineers live long. Some of those who loved me and
befriended me or loved and befriended those who loved and befriended me, may still be alive
and hearty and likely to live many years yet. So also may be some of those who hated me. I
do not want anyone holding a grudge, or nursing the grudge of a dead kinsman or friend, to
learn through me of any secret kindness to me which he might regard as treachery to his kin
and so feel impelled to avenge on those who befriended me or their children or grandchildren.
Umbrian enmities ramify incredibly and endure from generation to generation. I remember with
gratitude many Umbrians who were kind to me; I would not, however, indirectly cause any trouble
to them in their old age, or to their descendants.

The Imperial estate was large and I learned its history. It was made up of three adjacent properties
confiscated at different periods by different Emperors. One had fallen to the fiscus under
Nero, a second under Domitian, and a third under Trajan, each as the result of its owner being
implicated in a conspiracy against the Emperor. The administration of the resultant large estate
was a perfect sample of the excellent management in detail and stupid misjudgment in general
so common under the fiscus. The estate was hilly, some of it mountainous, and quite unfitted
for horse- breeding, which is best engaged in, as everybody knows, on estates composed chiefly
of wide-spreading plains or gently rolling country with broad, flat meadows. Good judgment
would have put this estate chiefly in forest, with a few cattle, some sheep and more goats,
but no horses. As I found it, it had, to be sure, many goats, but almost as many sheep and
cattle, and horses almost as numerous as the cattle and far more important, for to their breeding
most of the efforts of the overseer were directed.

The overseer's house was the best of the three original villas. About it were ample, commodious
and scrupulously clean quarters for slaves like me. Also it had yards for fowls, ducks, geese,
guinea-fowls, and peacocks, arranged before the confiscation and allowed since to run down,
but still productive and fairly well-filled with birds, as were the big dovecotes. Besides,
there were fish ponds and a rabbit-warren, left from the former villa. There were extensive
stables, cattle-sheds and pens, sheep-folds, goat-runs and pig-sties adjoining the house. In
the quarters I found a goodly company of hearty, healthy, contented slaves, sty-wards, goatherds,
shepherds, cowmen and horse-wranglers. These were friendly from my first arrival among them,
seemed to look me over deliberately and appraise me, and appeared to like me.

I was first sent out as one of two assistants to an experienced herder in charge of a rather
large herd of beef-steers. We drove them up the mountains to a grassy glade and, when they
had eaten down the grass there, to another. Our duties were light, as the steers were not very
wild or fierce and were easy to keep together, to keep in motion by day and to keep stationary
by night. Each night two of us slept by a smouldering fire and the third circled about the
herd as the steers lay sleeping or chewing their cuds. The circling was done at the horse's
slowest walk. Our horses were good, our food good, and my two companions genial, though reticent.

Only once did any of our charges bolt. Then, when we missed three steers, our senior asked me:

"Do you think you could find them and fetch them back?"

On my affirming confidence that I could he smiled doubtfully, and shook his head, but drawled:

"I'll give you the chance, just to try you out."

I found the runaways with no trouble whatever, for their trail was nowhere faint, turned them
easily and brought them back, manifestly, much sooner than he had hoped. He appeared pleased,
but merely grunted.

Yet he must have spoken well of me to the superintendent, for after a day's rest in the slave-quarters
I was assigned the sole care of a small bunch of young cows with their first calves. It seemed
to be assumed that I would make no attempt to escape. As I had been given a good horse and
a serviceable rain-cloak, I had thoroughly enjoyed my life from the start.

The landscape was charming, the climate agreeable, spring was approaching, I was out in the
open air, camping at night by a fire wherever my charges lay down to sleep, eating what I chose
of the ample supply of good food which I carried in my saddle-bags. I was happy, thoroughly
happy, and I throve from my arrival. I still mourned for Agathemer, but I did not miss him
as acutely as I had in the ergastulum.

After about ten days in the woodland glades I brought my charges back to the villa for inspection,
according to orders. The inspector was pleased with their condition and commended me. Some
of the fellow-herdsmen, off duty, stood or sat about and they seemed to approve.

One of them asked:

"Have much trouble, Greenhorn?"

"Not a bit," I answered.

"How'd you like to try to milk one of those cows?" another enquired.

"I can milk any one of them," I replied. "I have milked most of them. I've been drinking all
the milk I could hold all the while I was out with them."

"That's the silliest lie I ever heard," they chorused. "Why, if you tried to handle any one
of those cows she'd gore you to death. You couldn't get near enough to the udder of any one
of them to get your hand on her teats. Invent a lie we can swallow, or quit bragging. You can't
fool us."

I kept my temper, scaled the enclosure of the cow-pen, being careful not to make any sudden
movement, strolled to the nearest cow, stroked her nose, pulled her ears, walked down her flank,
patting her as I went and handled her udder.

"What have you to say now?" I called to the gaping yokels.

"Try that on another," they shouted back.

I did the like with two more.

They were dumb.

"Hand me a crock," I called, "and I'll get a quart or so of milk, if the calves have left any."

When, one handed me a small olla I milked it more than half-full from a dozen cows. I exhibited
the milk, offered it to them, and, on their laughingly replying that they were no milk-sops,
they preferred wine, I drank most of it. Then I went to the nearest calf, gentled it, picked
it up, lifted it onto my back, its legs sticking out in front of me across my shoulders, and
paced back and forth along the inside of the fence, the mother following me, licking the calf
and lowing, but mild and with no show of anger, let alone any threat of attack on me.

Before I put the calf down the superintendent came along.

"What's all this?" he queried.

"Felix here," he was answered, "is a sort of wizard. He can gentle these cows, he can milk
them, and he has been showing off how one will let him carry her calf and yet not get excited."

"Can you do as well with bulls, too?" the Villicus enquired.

"I think so," I replied. I had put down the calf and climbed out of the cow-pen.

"Come along!" the Villicus commanded.

We trooped off to a pen where there was a fine breeding-bull all alone.

"Get inside, lad!" said the Villicus; "that is, if you dare. But be sure you are ready to vault
out again, and entirely able to clear the pen."

I climbed into the pen and stood. The bull gazed at me, but made no threatening movement and
his demeanor was placid. I walked up to him, a pace at a time, patted his nose, pulled his
ears, walked round him, stroking him, took hold of the ring in his nose and led him over toward
the awestruck gapers:

When I climbed out of the pen one man said:

"Try him on old Scrofa."

We trooped off to the hog-pens and there was a six or eight-year-old sow with a young litter.
She was a huge beast, as ugly a sow as ever I saw. I got into her pen, miring half to my knees
in its filth, but keeping my feet. She made no move to attack me, but grunted enquiringly.
I picked up one of her pigs, it hardly squealed and she grunted scarcely more than she had
already. I dangled the piglet before her, and she only smelt it and kept on grunting, with
no sign of wrath.

"Come out, Felix," the Villicus drawled, "you are sow-proof. But how do you do it?"

"I don't know," I replied, "but I have always been able to gentle fierce animals of any kind.
No animal ever attacks me."

Thereupon he tried me with three rams famous for butting, two he-goats of even worse reputation
and half a score of watch-dogs. I came unscathed from close companionship with the goats and
rams, and the dogs behaved as if they had been my pets from their puppyhood.

"Can you do as well with horses?" the Villicus enquired.

"I believe so," I replied; "give me a chance."

"I shall," he asserted. "I'll round up all our colts fit for breaking and try you on them.
I'll get in most of the boys to watch the fun. It'll take about ten days to get ready. Meanwhile
you can take out another bunch of heifers with new calves. It seems to suit you and the calves
and the heifers."

When I returned from my third outing, hard and fit and happy, the Villicus asked me how soon
I would be ready for colt-breaking.

"Tomorrow," I said.

The next day was made a sort of festival, with all the horse-herders at the villa paddocks.

First of all four experienced horse-wranglers roped a filly, threw her, bitted and bridled
her while one sat on her head, let her get on her feet, hobbled her, held her so while two
more saddled her and then held her while one mounted her. When they let her go she reared,
bucked, dashed about, bucked again and again, and continued till exhaustion forced her to quiet
down and obey her rider, who had kept his seat from the first.

"What do you think of that, Felix?" the Villicus asked me.

"As good horse-wrangling as can be seen anywhere," I replied. "Up to standard and even above
normal. But I can do better."

"Bold words," said the Villicus; "we'll give you a chance to prove them."

Another filly was roped, bitted, bridled, and saddled, and her captors invited me to mount.

"Pooh!" said I. "Let some one else ride her. I don't need all those preliminaries. I can walk
right out into that bunch of colts, catch any young stallion you point out, hold him by the
nose, gentle him without any rope or thong on him, mount him by vaulting onto his back, and
ride him about unbitted, unbridled, bareback, and as I please, without his rearing or backing
or kicking."

"Son," said the Villicus, "you are either a lunatic or a demigod. Go in and try what you boast
you can do. Show us."

"Point out your stallion," I suggested.

He indicated a beautiful bay with a white face. He let me approach him at my first attempt,
let me take him by the nose, let me lead him close to my dumbfounded audience, let me mount
him. I rode him about, turning him to right or left as the Villicus ordered, at my suggestion.
When I got off I lifted each of his hoofs in succession, crawled under his belly, crawled between
his fore-legs, and then between his hind-legs, while the onlookers held their breath; finally
I stood behind him, slapped his rump and pulled his tail.

"Is he broken?" I queried.

"Apparently he is gentle as a lamb to you," the Villicus admitted, "but how about the rest of us?"

"Bring in a saddle and bridle," I suggested, "and I'll bit him and hold him while two of you
saddle him and until one of you mounts him. He should be no more dangerous than a roped filly."

They did as I suggested and I then rode him about until he appeared used to the saddle and
bit and already, at once, bridle-wise. Then one of the wranglers rode him.

I gentled colt after colt all that day till sunset, with a very brief pause for food and rest.
Also I kept it up next day until mid-afternoon, when the last colt had been tamed.

Then, as we stood breathing, one of the horse-wranglers suggested:

"Try him on Selinus."

"That would be plain murder," one of the others cried.

"I am not so sure," the Villicus ruminated. "I am almost ready to feel that he might even tame
Selinus."

Off we trooped to the stable of the choice breeding-stallions. There, in a darkened box-stall,
I was shown a beautiful demon of a horse, four years old, a sorrel, with a white face and white
forefeet. He certainly looked wicked enough.

"Will you try him?" the Villicus asked me.

"Of course," I said. "Let him out into the yard or the paddock."

Into the paddock he was let out, by means of a door in his stall worked by winches from above.
In the afternoon sunlight he pranced and curvetted about, a joy to see.

"Let me show Felix what he is like," one of the younger horse-wranglers suggested.

"You can," the Villicus agreed. "We all know how agile you are and how quick at vaulting a fence."

The fellow vaulted into the paddock when Selinus was at its further corner. The moment the
beast saw him he charged at full-run, screaming like an angry gander, the picture of a man-killer,
ears laid back, nostrils wide and red, mouth open, teeth bared, forehoofs lashing out high
in front, an equine fury. The lad vaulted the fence handily when Selinus was not three yards
from him and the brute pawed angrily at the palings and bit them viciously.

"Want to try, Felix?" the Villicus asked me again.

Without a word I vaulted the enclosure within two yards of Selinus. He stood, ears cocked forward,
nostrils quiet, mouth shut, all four hoofs on the ground, quivering all over.

Inch by inch I neared him till my hand touched him. He trembled like an aspen-leaf, but did
not attack me.

"Hercules be good to us all!" exclaimed one of the men.

After that I did with Selinus all I had done with the first stallion-colt, gentling him, leading
him by the nose, mounting him, riding him, crawling under his belly, between his fore-legs
and hind-legs, pulling his tail, slapping him liberally all over. Then, timidly, urged by their
comrades' jeers, the two wranglers whom I invited brought me a saddle and bridle and I bitted
him and held him while they saddled. Then I rode him.

Afterwards, with much misgiving, but shamed into boldness, the chief horse-wrangler mounted
him and rode him.

Selinus was tamed!

"Felix," said the Villicus, "you are too valuable to set to herding cattle. You are henceforward
chief horse-wrangler of this estate. I'll give you a house all to yourself and a girl to keep
house for you. When not horse taming here or wherever I lend you out, you can spend your time
as you please."

The onlookers acclaimed his award and the displaced chief horse-wrangler shook hands with me
and declared that he was proud to be second to such a wonder as "Felix the Wizard."

After that I lived a life of ease. My dwelling was a neat cottage well shaded with fine trees
and bowered in climbing vines, with a tiny courtyard, a not too tiny atrium with a hearth,
a kitchen, a store-room and two bed-rooms. It was as clean as possible and well furnished for
a slave's quarters. The girl and I liked each other at first sight. I am not going to tell
her name, but a jest we had between us led me to call her by the pet name of Septima. If she
had been a free-woman, she would have been described as a young widow. Her former mate, one
of the horse-wranglers, had been killed by Selinus the previous autumn. Their child, not a
year old, had died before his father. Septima had recovered from her grief during the winter
and had become normally cheerful before she was assigned to me. I found her constitutionally
merry, very good company, always diligent, a surpassing cook, magical with the garden, especially
with her beloved flowers, a capable needle-woman, always neat, and very good- looking. We got
on famously together.

With her beehives only, Septima had trouble. She understood bees perfectly, but was afraid
of them, and with reason, for she was manifestly obnoxious to bees and was far too often stung.
Of course, bees, like all other living creatures, were mild to me. I tended her hives, under
her supervision, for I knew nothing of bees; according to her directions I captured several
swarms for her. Also I, when the time came, removed combs from such hives as she designated.

Spring was in its full glory and I felt the exhilaration of it. Each home- coming was a delight.
And I was much away, for the Villicus had me convoyed about the countryside to every estate
which possessed an unbroken colt or an intractable horse. I gentled successfully every one
I encountered.

After all the bad horses and raw colts for miles around had been tamed I spent some days idling
about my cottage and getting acquainted with it and with Septima. But within not many days
I grew restive. I told the Villicus I wanted something to do.

"Well," he said, "five steers have eluded one of my herd-gangs and no one can find them. Question
the men (he named them) so as to get the right start, and try your luck."

I was off, trailing those five steers, for three days and two nights. By sunset of the third
day I had them back at the villa.

After that I was called on to hunt down and round up all stampeded cattle and all strays, whether
cattle, horses, goats, sheep or swine. I enjoyed my lone outings and between them basked contentedly
in the comfort of my cottage and the amenity of Septima's cheeriness. During my stays at home
I thoroughly familiarized myself with the villa, its outbuildings and all their inhabitants.
Also I put a good deal of time on Selinus, whom I transformed from an insane man-killer into
one of the gentlest stallions I ever heard of. I taught him all the niceties of obedience acclaimed
in perfect parade horses till he would stand, sidle, back, sidle diagonally, curvet and execute
all the show-steps promptly at the signalling touch or sound. I tamed him till he would let
anybody gentle him, till it was perfectly safe for anyone to ride him. I even trusted Septima
on him and he justified my confidence in my training of him and in him. In fact, from being
a man-killer who had to be kept penned up in the dark, whom not even the boldest horse-master
dare approach, he became so gentle and so trustworthy that he could be let run at large, mild
to all human beings, even to strangers.

He grew to love me like a pet dog, followed me about when I was not riding him, and would come
to me from far away to a call or gesticulation; and he could see me and recognize me at such
distances that I revised my notions as to the powers of sight possessed by horses, for I had
held the common opinion that no horse can see clearly or definitely any object at all far from
him. Selinus repeatedly saw and recognized me a full half-mile away and galloped to me, approaching
with every demonstration of joy.

During my horse-wrangling expeditions and my excursions after wandering stock I had grown well
acquainted with the country-side and its inhabitants. I was on terms of comradeship with all
my fellow-slaves, of easy sociability with the yeomanry; while I was treated by the overseers,
the Villicus, and inspectors with marked consideration. Thus I rapidly learnt all there was
to know of the idiosyncrasies of the locality, since everybody seemed to trust me and no one
held aloof or was reticent with me.

I found conditions in the Umbrian mountains as amazing, as incredible as in the ergastulum
at Nuceria. There the two vital facts were the negligence and impotence of the warders and
the secret system for cheating and thwarting them. Here all the thoughts of slaves, peasants
and yeomen on the one hand, and of overseers, inspectors and landowners on the other, pivoted
on the existence in the district of a post of road-constabulary on the lookout for bandits
and of a camp of brigands owing allegiance to the King of the Highwaymen.

The wealthy proprietors, the gentlemanly landowners, the inspectors of the Estate, its Villicus
and his overseers all suspected the presence of the bandits and were doing all they could to
assist the road-constabulary to locate them, pounce on them and capture them. Their efforts
were completely futile. Neither any of the constabulary nor any of the well-to- do persons
who sided with them, could ever get an inkling of the location of the outlaws' various camps
nor was any of them ever able to be really sure that bandits were actually within a few miles.
For the whole body of yeomanry, peasants and slaves, even the slaves of those proprietors keenest
on the scent of the brigands and most eager to nab them, were leagued to bamboozle, thwart
and oppose their masters and betters, and to aid the outlaws, to keep them posted on everything
said and proposed by the loyal inhabitants, and to assist them in outwitting the authorities,
the constabulary and all persons who sided with them. In this they were notably successful.

It is my keen recollection of this condition of things which determines me to omit from this
part of my narrative all names of persons and places. The generality of the population made
a sort of religion out of their complicity with the outlaws. They took an almost religious
pride in cooperating with them and in antagonizing their adversaries. They hated all the adversaries
of the outlaws, whether landowners, constabulary or inspectors. But, above all, they loathed,
abhorred, abominated and detested with a white-hot animosity any yeoman, peasant or slave who
failed to do all in his power to foster the interests of the outlaws; regarding such persons,
male or female, as traitors to the cause of the populace. Especially did they cherish an envenomed
and malignant grudge against anyone who actually sided with the constabulary, gave them information
or betrayed the outlaws: or even against anyone who helped or shielded any such informer.

As I was the means of spoiling the long-prepared and much-hoped for coup on which the robbers
had set their highest hopes, as not a few men and women assisted me with information, aided
me in other ways and protected me afterwards, I dare not name any names for fear that some
survivor or some son or grandson of some participant in these doings might learn through me
of long suspected but never verified treason to the unwritten law of the country-side and might
bloodily avenge it on a surviving helper of mine or on any such helper's children or grandchildren.
The Umbrian mountaineers are spleenful, tenacious of a grudge and ferociously acrimonious.

I learnt all these amazing facts without difficulty, for slaves, peasants and yeoman alike
assumed that I was of their party and was heart and soul with the outlaws. I was not subject
to suspicion because I visited the post of the constabulary, became acquainted with every man
of them, their sergeants and their officers and frequented their company. All the yeomen, peasants
and slaves whose abodes were near the post, were, on the surface, on the best of terms with
the road-constables; pretended to help them with information, retailing to them as rumors all
sorts of inventions calculated to throw them off the scent of the outlaws, always with an air
of the friendliest good-will; and loitered, idling about the post, chatting of local gossip.

I was so entirely trusted that I was taken to the outlaws' camp and made acquainted with the
entire band. Paradoxically the members of the band were all hulking burly ruffians of twenty-five
to thirty-five years, whereas their chief, while big and brawny enough, was inferior in size
to any of his subordinates and younger by six full years than the youngest of them. To him
I was boisterously presented as a brother, for his name also was Felix. In fact, he was the
man since famous as Felix Bulla, for long the most redoubtable outlaw in Italy. Then he was
hardly more than a lad, for all his bulk and strength and ferocity. He had been appointed chief
of the band by the King of the Highwaymen in person, who held him in the warmest regard for
his ruthlessness, courage, skill, and cunning, especially for his cunning, rating him, as I
was told by all the band, and having proclaimed him to them, as the most subtle and crafty
outlaw alive after himself.

Bulla, like everybody else, appeared to take to me and treated me as an equal, after conversing
with me for hours at a time. I was always a welcome guest at any of the bandits' camps and
they often made me show off my admired powers on fox-cubs, badgers, weasels and other such
wild creatures which they or their peasant friends had trapped alive. My ability to tame, handle,
fondle and make tractable to anyone such animals appeared a source of unflagging interest and
unceasing entertainment to these ruffians.

As I was allowed to dispose of my time as I chose, whenever I was not busy rounding up strayed
stock or taming raw colts, I had plenty of leisure to ride about the country-side, make friends,
get intimate with the constabulary and the outlaws and idle many of my days as appeared most
pleasant. I took full advantage of my partial liberty.

The weather, from my arrival at the Imperial estate, was mostly fine and often glorious. Spring
came early and merged beautifully into summer. I enjoyed myself hugely. Besides local peculiarities
and the humors of the tacit league to thwart the constabulary and foster the interests of the
outlaws, I derived much entertainment from the traffic on the Flaminian Highway. Of course,
there were Imperial couriers, travellers of all sorts, and convoys of every kind of goods,
long strings of wagons, carts or pack- mules laden with wheat, other grains, wine, oil, flax,
charcoal, firewood, ingots of bronze, lead or iron, and countless other commodities on their
way to Rome; or convoys of clothing, hangings, furniture, utensils and the like, going northwards
from the City.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE OUTLAWS

From early spring, however, all this normal traffic was interfered with, delayed, hindered
and even totally blockaded by column after column of wains and wagons passing southwards, huge
wagons, drawn by six or eight or even ten horses or mules or by as many big long-horned white
oxen, every wagon laden with a cage or two or more cages containing beasts being conveyed to
the Colosseum in Rome. This amazing procession roused my interest as soon as it began to pass;
filling, clogging, blocking the highway and continuing without intermission day after day,
ceasing its movement, indeed, each night, but making the roadside almost a continuous camp
of teamsters and caretakers, barely half of them sleeping, the moiety busy about their draft-cattle
or the cages of their charges.

The endless stream of caravans amazed me. I had seen beast-fights without number in the Colosseum,
but had never thought of the enormous labor and expense incident on the preparations for even
one morning's exhibition of, say, a hundred lions and other beasts in proportion. Now I meditated
over the thousands of trappers and other hunters who must scour the forests of Dacia, Moesia,
Thrace, Illyricum, Pannonia, Noricum, Rhaetia and Germany to gather such a supply of beasts
for exhibition. I saw wolves, bears and boars by the thousand, and hundreds of lynxes, elk
and wild bulls, both the strange forest-bisons, unlike our cattle, with low rumps and high
shoulders and their horns turned downwards and forwards, parallel to each other, and the huger
and even fiercer bulls, much like farm bulls, but larger, taller and leaner and with horns
incredibly long, so that their tips were often two yards and more apart. I had no idea of the
vast numbers of such beasts which were yearly poured into Rome from all the mountains and forests
to the north and east of the Alps. I was amazed.

Even more was I amazed to see hundreds upon hundreds of cages containing beasts not from northern
Europe, but from Africa, or even from Asia: lions without number, panthers and leopards by
the hundred, many tigers, antelopes of all kinds by scores of each kind, rhinoceroses, and
hippopotami in enormous cages on gigantic wains drawn by twelve yoke of oxen; even a dozen
huge gray elephants pacing sedately, their turbaned mahouts rocking on their necks.

I knew that the traffic in beasts from the northern forests concentrated at Aquileia and I
had a hazy notion that they were customarily shipped from there by sea round Italy and through
the straits to the Tiber. My curiosity was excited as to why they were now coming overland
instead of going by sea. Still more was I curious as to why these hordes of animals from the
south should be traversing Italy from the north.

I asked questions and could get no satisfaction from the natives of the district: slaves, peasants,
yeomen, proprietors, overseers, Villicus and all, they one and all knew nothing. If they claimed
to know, what they alleged merely emphasized their ignorance.

The constabulary knew, but were inclined to be reticent and, when they spoke, were laconic.
Yet their briefest utterances contained hints which confirmed the only fact I had elicited
from the natives: namely, that this traffic was not only unusual along the Flaminian Highway,
but had never been seen on it before; was a complete novelty, even a portent. They also confirmed
my impression that few animals destined for beast-fights in the amphitheatres reached Rome
overland; as I had thought, practically all had hitherto come by sea and up the Tiber.

Still curious, I made friends with the teamsters. Some were from Ravenna, and even these grumbled
at the two hundred and fifty miles as ruinous to their cattle. The animals they convoyed had
come overland from Aquileia to Altinum and from there to Ravenna by sea. In this way had come
the crocodiles, hippopotami and rhinoceroses.

More teamsters were from Aquileia itself. Some of these with the lighter wagons for the cages
containing wolves, lynxes, small antelopes, hyenas or African apes, had been able to take the
shorter though poorer road by way of Patavium and Ateste to Bononia, which made their total
journey under five hundred and twenty miles. But most, including all those conveying bears,
boars, panthers, leopards, lions or tigers, had come by the more northerly road through Verona.
Those with panthers, leopards or small stags had come from Verona, by way of Hostilia to Bononia
and from there southward as did all, making their journey about five hundred and fifty miles;
the men conveying cages of tigers, lions, bears, boars, elk, or wild bulls had mostly come
from Verona through Cremona; from there some through Regio to Bononia, others through Placentia;
and for these their total teaming did not differ much, about six hundred and twenty miles for
the ones and ten miles more for the others. Teams tugging wains carrying the heaviest cages
containing unusually large elk, boars, bears or bulls, had had to go by way of Milan and had
been put to it to keep their teams fit for a journey of over seven hundred miles.

Besides the difference in weight of the loads, chiefly depending on the needed strength of
the cages, I found that their divergence of routes was due, in part, to the efforts which the
procurator of all this teaming had made to avoid choking the roads. The teamsters averred that
they knew nothing as to why the beasts were being brought this way; and no more as to why animals
brought all the way from Africa to Aquileia, a voyage far longer than the voyage to Rome, should
then be conveyed overland from, Aquileia to the Colosseum.

I enjoyed idling about the teamsters' camps chatting with them and the attendants who cared
for the beasts. One hot evening, just about sunset, when I was already thinking of riding off
home to bathe and dine, while I was lingering to watch his keepers urging their little gang
of slaves to pour more and more water over a gasping hippopotamus, there was a yell of alarm
all along the line and a scampering, scattering rush of fleeing men; teamsters, attendants
and keepers. A panther had broken out of its cage, when a wagon overset.

He came down the middle of the highway, keeping to it, as everyone ran off it to right and
left. I had strolled some distance from where I had tethered my horse. Naturally, as I could
not mount and dash off, I did not run. I stepped into the middle of the road and faced the
beast. Of course, he stopped, stood still and stared at me. I walked towards him, very deliberately,
even pausing between paces, till I was an arm's length from him. He cringed and cowered. I
took him by the scruff of his neck, turned him round, led him back to his cage, which was not
broken, only jarred open, made him enter it, and closed the door on him.

Thereupon the fugitives flocked back, acclaiming me as a sorcerer. The superintendent of that
caravan insisted on my giving him my name. I told him I was Felix, the horse-wrangler of the
Imperial estate. He gave me a broad gold piece.

Unable to elicit anything from the natives or the teamsters I resorted to the outlaws. I had
been admonished before I saw any of them that it was not according to the etiquette of the
district for anyone to ride a horse into the outlaws' camp. If anywhere near it one visited
it on foot. If too far one carefully avoided appearing to ride towards it or from it. When
the camp, for instance, happened to be south of my cottage I would ride off north, east, or
west, fetch a long compass about, tether my horse at least half a mile from the camp, generally
farther away, and stroll towards it. On leaving I invariably departed by a path different from
that by which I had come. When I reached my horse I was careful similarly to choose a return
route which would bring me home some direction other than that towards which I had gone off.
Of course, I always observed these precautions, since any neglect of them, if known, would
have not only made me unwelcome to the brigands, but also gotten me into disfavor with the
whole countryside.

When I reached the outlaws' camp I was careful to let them do most of the talking and to wait
for the talk to come round to the subject of the beast-caravans. I had not long to wait, and,
when I expressed my amazement and curiosity, they showed no reluctance about informing me.
Bulla himself explained that Commodus had become so interested in beast-fighting, had developed
such transcendent skill at fighting beasts and had grown so infatuated with the sport that
he spent most of his time in the arena, displaying his dexterity to invited audiences composed
of senators, nobles, notabilities and their wives and even children; in which exhibitions he
had killed so many creatures that he had not only depleted but had almost exhausted the normal
reserves constantly kept at Rome, Ostia and the other Tiber ports. When the procurators in
charge of the supplies of beasts for the arena realized that the Emperor was killing his victims
faster than they normally were brought in, even lavishly as they had always been provided,
they sent out orders urging greatly increased efforts at hunting, capturing, caring for and
rapidly transporting all sorts of creatures destined for the Colosseum. The Emperor's killing
capacity and love of enjoying and exhibiting his knack so outran their measures that, by the
time the increased supply began to come in, the royal sportsman's unerrancy and swiftness outran
their best results, so that hasty messages had to be sent to Marseilles, Aquileia, Byzantium,
Antioch and Alexandria ordering the instant despatch to Rome, with the utmost speed, regardless
of expense, not only of all newly captured beasts as they came in, in contravention of the
long-established regulations by which Rome and the provincial capitals shared each variety
of animal, but also the concurrent despatch of the local reserves, even the emptying of the
beast despositories attached to each amphitheatre. As the voyage from Aquileia to Rome was
of variable duration, owing to the uncertainty and shiftiness of the winds, orders had been
given to forward all its reserves and supplies, at once, overland. Hence the spectacle which
had so excited the countryside and so amazed me. As Commodus was still slaughtering all sorts
of beasts daily not only with arrows and spears, to show off his accuracy as a marksman but,
even with sword or club, to display his incredible swiftness of movement and unerrancy in directing
and timing a blow, he was taxing the capacities of his procurators and their gigantic organization
of transports, teams, detention-pens, and hunters merely to stave off the apparently inevitable
day when, whatever might run wild in the deserts, forests and mountains, there would be, at
Rome, far too few beasts to maintain the autocrat's daily sport.

When I expressed my astonishment at the certainty with which these explanations were uttered
and my wonder as to how they came to be so sure, Bulla said:

"Why, our King of the Highwaymen has reliable, capable and secret agents, entirely unsuspected,
in every city of Italy. He has a brother and sister in Rome and equally devoted and unfailing
helpers in Capua, Aquileia, Milan, Brundisium and Naples. He maintains a road service of swift
couriers who bring him promptly all the information collected for him in the cities, where
his backers catch every breeze of rumor and are forehanded in getting advance information on
all important moves of the authorities as well as in sifting truth from falsehood. Equally
prompt are his couriers in disseminating to subsidiary bands like mine whatever he judges we
should learn; thus we know more of goings-on in Rome and at Court than do provincial nobles
and highway-police."

As I trudged from the camp to my horse, as I trotted homewards, I was despondent. I had no
right to be so, for I was merely one of the innumerable slaves held by the fiscus as the property
of Caesar. As such I was notably well off. Even in my proper person I congratulated myself
on my amazing luck. I was alive, unsuspected, secure, well-housed, well-clad, well-cared for,
freer than many a freeman, than many a nobleman, pleasantly busy at occasional tasks very congenial
to me and blest with much leisure among a companionable population in a lovely region full
of diversified and charming scenery set off by an exhilarating climate; I should have been gay.

Yet my thoughts were those of a Roman nobleman. I was horrified at the state of the Republic.
I knew that Italy had never been entirely free from outlaws. Even under Tiberius highwaymen
had perpetrated successful robberies and had captured and held for ransom wealthy persons or
even notabilities. But under most of the Emperors these outrages had been few and had occurred
only in the wilder districts. During the civil wars between Otho and Vitellius brigandage had
become rife all over Italy, even up to the gates of Rome, and Vespasian had had much ado to
exterminate the outlaws. Again, under Nerva, bandits had multiplied and prospered. But none
had ventured into any populous district during the principates of Trajan, Hadrian and their
successors until after the death of Aurelius. Now, because of the negligence of his son, outlaws
had so prospered that they had a sort of organization among themselves, like a commonwealth
inside the Republic, as I had seen during my captivity with Maternus and now glimpsed again
in Bulla's revelations. It argued a horrible disintegration of the governmental mechanism of
the Republic and of the Roman character that such things had become possible.

Equally horrifying to me was the contemplation of Caesar's extravagance. I knew that the Republic's
income from all sources was insufficient to keep up the court establishment and ceremonials
at their normal cost; to defray the expenses of the state festivals with befitting magnificence
of games in the circuses, amphitheatres and theatres; to maintain the Praetorian guards, city
police, road constabulary and frontier garrisons. I knew that all these branches of the necessary
structure of the state were constantly in want of more funds than could be supplied to them.
I knew that this want of supplies crippled our commanders along the Euphrates, the Danube,
the Rhine and the Wall, as well as far up the Nile and in the Euxine and made possible the
insolence of the Ethiopians and Caledonians as well as the greater insolence of the Parthians,
Goths and Germans.

Yet, when conditions so urgently called for greater expenditures along our frontiers and for
close economy at home, I beheld our Prince stinting his commanders and their heroic legions
and lavishing upon his own pleasure and the gratification of his amazing vanity sums which
would have enabled our eagles not only to defy all assailants of our frontiers but to humble
and subdue every threatening foe, even to penetrate and subjugate Nubia, Parthia and inner
Germany. I sickened at the thought of our shame along the frontiers as at the thought of the
energies of thousands upon thousands of hard-muscled, bold-hearted young men wasted on capturing
beasts and the like energies of thousands upon thousands of hardy peasants who ought to have
been busy at productive labor on farms or in forests or mines, wasted on caring for and transporting
swarms of beasts for Commodus to kill.

Those thoughts were depressing. I could not banish them.

The next day the mood persisted. I had nothing to do, did not feel like doing anything in particular
and yet felt restless. The weather was perfect. I set off afoot for a place not far from my
cottage, not far enough to be called a long walk, where a big gray crag or small cliff like
an inland promontory, a spur of a forested mountain, towered up from the southeastern side
of the Flaminian Highway. At that point the road was the boundary of the Imperial estate; the
crag lay outside it, and, at that part of its foot which projected farthest, was not a hundred
yards from the highway. The mountain rose a thousand feet or more from the meadows along the
road. The crag was full three hundred feet high. It was perfectly possible to toil up the steep
wooded slope of the mountain and walk out on either of two bush-covered shelves which ran round
the crag. From the lower of these, where it belted the front of the vertical cliff, there was
a fine view down upon the highway and along it both ways; from the upper more of the highway
could be seen; from the very top of the crag, which was bare except for two clumps of gnarled
trees and starved bushes near its brow, the view included a full two miles of the highway in
each direction.

I climbed the slope to the lower shelf and ensconced myself where I was shaded from the sun
and had a clear view of the road both ways. From my coign I watched the traffic. I judged that
the northern supply of arena- beasts was already overtaxed. The procession of wagons was no
longer continuous. They came now in trains of a hundred or so with some miles between the convoys.
Just as I settled myself no beast-wagons were in sight, the road-traffic was normal. An Imperial
courier dashed into view from the south, tore past at full gallop, and vanished northwards;
three family travelling carriages, also bound north, pulling to the side of the road to let
him pass; as did a train of a score of mules laden with charcoal.

The first sign of arena-beasts which I saw after I settled myself to watch was a string of
eight elephants, each with a turbaned mahout rocking on his back, and seven each with his trunk
clasping the tail of the elephant before him. This was the second batch of elephants I had
heard of; the former, I had been told, came by way of Ateste, since the elephants could swim
the Po and all the other rivers had strong stone bridges. These looked well after their four
hundred mile tramp and fit for the hundred and odd ahead of them.

Before they were out of sight there came into view the head of a column of wagons which turned
out to be loaded with cages of bears, lynxes, bison, aurochs, elk, wolves and other northern
animals. I watched them pass and meditated. After they were gone the road was normal for a
full two hours, during which I pondered the thoughts which obsessed me and gloomed with shame
over the condition of the Empire. I had brought food and water with me and ate about noon,
slept an hour or more and woke to watch the passage of two trains of cages full of lions, tigers,
leopards and panthers. The second train was overtaken and passed by two Imperial couriers from
the north, racing each other, the former more than a half mile ahead of the latter, and, apparently
lengthening his lead. I spent the day on the crag. Also I spent other days there, sometimes
on one shelf, sometimes on the other, sometimes on the top.

Not many days elapsed before I again visited the outlaws' camp and had another chat with Bulla;
not we two alone, for there was always an easy sociability about the bandits and, if none took
part in or broke into their chief's talk, usually two or more lay or sat about listening and
sharing our interview.

In the course of our talk Bulla discoursed of his importance, of the importance of the band,
of the warm regard in which he and they were held by their head chief, the King of the Highwaymen.

Some quirk inside my head made me venturesome.

"What is his name?" I queried. "You never name him."

"His orders!" Bulla snapped. "I know his name; not another man of our band knows it. He never
uses it and takes great pains to keep all outsiders who know his name from suspecting that
he is King of the Highwaymen; and similarly to make sure that all outsiders who know him as
King of the Highwaymen get no inkling of his name. If the knowledge got abroad the usefulness
to him of his brother and sister in Rome would be destroyed."

I apologized for my question.

"No harm done," Bulla smiled. "I don't have to answer any questions unless I want to, and I
don't mind questions from you."

"If you don't," I pursued, emboldened, "perhaps you'll be willing to explain how it can be
that your king holds you and your band in such high esteem, whereas, to all appearances, you
have not acquired a sesterce- worth of loot since long before I reached this neighborhood;
in fact, as far as I can hear, have not succeeded in robbing anyone since you located your
camp here?"

"I am perfectly willing to explain," laughed Bulla, looking more formidable when he smiled
or laughed than when expressionless. "We are no cheap bandits to rob market-women, poor farmers,
ordinary travellers or such small fry. We angle for bigger fish. We bide our time. We are here
to make three big strokes and then a quick disappearance. Once we have our hands on our chosen
prisoners to be held for ransom we shall be off for the mountain heights and the thickest forests;
once we have the booty we hope for, those in charge of it will ride fast and far and get clear
out of this part of Italy. Is that intelligible?"

"Entirely," said I, and was mute.

Bulla gazed at me almost genially.

"I don't in the least mind telling you," he said, "just what we are waiting for. Half the countryside
knows and are alert to help us all they know how.

"In the first place we have word of a big consignment of gold on the way to Rome; ingots from
the mines in the mountains of Noricum, nuggets and dust washed from the rivers of Dacia and
Pannonia and Moesia. Of course it is in charge of a wary official and has a strong guard, but
we have good hopes of getting it. If we do, it will be the biggest haul that any of our bands
ever made, and that he has put me here to try for it is proof of my King's esteem for me.

"In the second place a wealthy senator, just the right man to capture and hold for ransom,
is coming up from Rome in charge of a big chest of gold coin to be paid out by the administrators
of Asia and Macedonia and Achaia. He himself is going out as propraetor of Asia. With him is
a wealthy widow, going north to be married at Aquileia, and taking with her a big jewel-chest
full of the finest and largest gems in the most magnificent settings. So we have in prospect
three prisoners for ransom and three rich treasures.

"The difficulty is that it will be almost impossible to make both captures. If we nab the propraetor
and widow, with the coin and gems, the rumor or report of it is almost certain to warn the
procurator with the raw gold so that he will elude us. Similarly if we get him, news of our
presence will most likely reach and alarm the propraetor and the widow. If one comes ten days
or even five before the other we can scarcely hope for complete success. If fewer days intervene
we might get both. I am here to get both. The King thinks me capable of the feat. His instructions
are that, in case I judge that I can get but one, I am to try for the procurator and his gold,
as it is estimated that his gold is worth at least twice the coin and gems together, even adding
the possible ransoms of the widow and the propraetor.

"I am hoping they will come only a day apart or even the same day; all our couriers with letters
about the progress of the gold convoy and the widow's preparations indicate that they will
reach this part of the road at about the same time. They might meet each other right here where,
we want them together. I keep nursing that hope.

"Now you know as much as you need to know about our plans."

I thanked him and marvelled at his frankness. But, as I rode home, I reflected that thinking
me the Imperial slave I appeared, he thought me certain to be secret and, if possible, helpful.

I spent the next day and the next on my crag, watching the fascinating spectacle afforded by
the highway.

On the third day the Villicus chided me for having told my name to the sub-procurator after
I had recaged the panther.

"An Imperial courier has just passed," he said. "He is a close friend of a trusty friend of
mine in Rome. Like most couriers he is obliging and will carry letters for his friends, even
packets. He dropped here a note for me, warning me that I am likely to lose you. My friend
is a crony of some of the upper slaves in the Palace and of others in the Beast Barracks.

"Your manumission, which was urged by the aldermen of Nuceria, has been favorably reported
and may be ordered. On the other hand, the procurator in charge of the reserves of arena-beasts
has heard of you and vows he must have you for service in or for the Colosseum. I am likely
to lose you either way. I don't mind your manumission; I'll wager that I can induce you to
stay on as you are. But I am all worked up over the prospect of a requisition for you from
the Beast Barracks. If one comes it will be your fault."

I told him I was more stirred up about it than he was; that I should hate to leave him and
loathed the very idea of being cooped up in Rome amid fetid cages; caring for lions and such
like. We thoroughly understood each other, and he said:

"I'll have to manage to report you killed, if the requisition comes. I'm determined to keep
you. I'll have to set my wits to work to arrange for it."

I hoped he might, but I felt nervous. I dreaded being dragged to Rome and recalled the prophecy
of the Aemilian Sibyl. I had a feeling that to Rome I was going, my situation was too good
to last. I thought of leaving Septima with much regret. Not that I loved her or even cared
for her; but she was a girl no man could but respect and admire and wish well to. If I must
leave her I resolved to leave her as well off as I could.

Making sure that I was far from any human being and unobserved I opened my amulet-bag, looked
over the gems it contained, selected a medium-sized emerald of perfect color, sewed it into
the hem of my tunic and sewed up the amulet-bag with the rest of the gems inside it.

At the first opportunity, I revisited the outlaws' camp, with the usual precautions, and found
Bulla idle and genial. I told him I needed cash, all the cash I could get, and had an emerald
I thought would be worth a noble store of gold and silver coin.

"Show it to me!" he commanded.

I took out my sheath-knife, ripped the emerald out of its hiding-place and passed it to him.

He conned it.

"You are right, brother," he said; "this is a fine gem. I tell you what I'll do. I'll ride,
myself, to Sentinum and exchange this for cash, part gold and part silver. Sentinum seems an
unlikely place in which to find a cash purchaser for a gem like this, but our King has a friend
there who acts as his agent in several respects; among others he keeps cash in hand to exchange
any time for precious loot; especially jewelry. He'll hand me the cash without hesitation.

"But if I am to do it for you, you must agree in advance to accept his valuation of the jewel
and to divide with me, share and share alike, whatever he pays me for your emerald. In a case
like this I charge half the proceeds of the sale as my commission for making the deal and as
my fee for my time, risk and trouble. Do you agree?"

"Certainly," I said, "and I am amazed at your offer. How can you be away three days or more
at this juncture? Might not your prizes: procurator, propraetor, widow, jewels, coin, and gold
all slip through your hands during your absence in my behalf?"

"No fear, lad!" he laughed; "our advices never deceive us. The procurator with his gold is
far away and approaching slowly; neither the widow nor the propraetor is ready to leave Rome;
both are occupied with endless preparations. I have plenty of time. And it won't take me any
three days to reach Sentinum and return. I'll set off at sunset. About the third hour tomorrow
I'll be at Sentinum, my mount lathered and blown, but far from used up; about the ninth hour
I'll pass out of one of the gates of Sentinum on my return, completely refreshed myself and
with my mount fit for the return journey: I'll be here in camp at dawn day after tomorrow,
with the coin bags. You can come for your cash any time after the third hour day after tomorrow.
Is it a bargain?"

"Done!" said I.

"Then get home," he said. "If I'm to go two nights without sleep I'll give orders now, post
my out-pickets and what not and snooze till dusk."

I spent the next day on my crag. Several trains of wagons with arena- beasts passed, but they
were farther apart than ten days before. The other traffic on the road was normal.

Next day, not long after the third hour, I was in the outlaws' camp. Bulla I found awake and
with no signs of drowsiness or fatigue. In full sight of all of his men he spread a blanket,
and, on it placed four coin-bags, two small and two full size. From the larger he spilt their
contents on the blanket and, each of us taking a bag, we picked up the silver one piece at
a time, both keeping count together. There was an odd piece.

"It's yours, lad!" said Bulla. "I've enough here."

The gold pieces similarly spilled and counted, came out even.

"Are you satisfied?" Bulla queried.

"Both with the amount and the division," I replied, "and now I'll be off. You must need sleep."

"Sit still!" Bulla commanded.

He rose and went into his tent, for the outlaws had excellent hide tents. He returned with
a fine new coin-belt of pigskin leather.

"Here," he said as he squatted down and handed it to me, "is a little gift from Bulla. Wear
it next your skin. And remember to keep it flat and loose. Many a man has lost his life with
his coin in a tight place because a bulging belt betrayed him to greedy ruffians. My lads will
respect you, but you may encounter bandits who have no inkling that you are under my protection.
Don't attempt to carry too much, of your coin about your waist."

I thanked him and tramped off.

CHAPTER XXVII

THE POINT OF VIEW

That evening, after our dinner, a perfect dinner eaten under a grape- arbor, lingering over
the fruit and honey in the mingled light of waning dusk and a clear crescent moon, I showed
Septima my belt and bags, put in the belt what silver would fill it to a flaccid and comfortable
flatness, and gave her all the gold and the rest of the silver. I had already explained to
her what impended over us, and had emphasized my wish to remain with her and my anxiety to
know that she was provided for, if we were to be separated.

I did not visit the post of the road-constabulary as often as the camp of the outlaws. Next
day I rode over to their post and chatted with one of the sergeants and several of the men.
They were in doubt between, two opinions: most held that their presence in the district had
frightened the bandits away and that they had left the neighborhood and transferred their attention
to a wholly different region; only a few maintained the view that the brigands had been lurking
near from before their arrival and that all their efforts had failed to locate their hiding
place. I heard nothing which led me to believe that they had any inkling of the location of
the outlaws' camp, of their purposes, or of their intended coup.

After a day of happy idling on my crag I visited Bulla. He was gay.

"It promises well," he volunteered. "The procurator and his gold are well on this side of Ariminum
and the propraetor and widow left Rome yesterday. They'll he here within two days of each other,
if he holds the rate he has kept all the way from Bononia and they travel as such luxurious
folks generally do. Come over as often as you like. No one will suspect you or follow you.
I'll keep you posted as to what our advices promise us. You may be able to help us."

By this time I was so interested in Bulla and his plans that I oscillated between my crag,
the outlaws' camp and the constabulary post, with no more other occupations than what I judged
absolutely needful to forestall any unwelcome interest in my doings and the possibility of
too many persons knowing of my visits to the outlaws.

When next I visited them Bulla told me that something had alarmed the procurator. Either some
rumor of their presence along the road had reached him or he knew of the bad reputation of
the stretch of the Flaminian Highway through the Umbrian mountains between Forum Sempronii
and Nuceria, which it had acquired some years before when the King of the Highwaymen himself
had made on it a succession of valuable captures which had yielded him princely booty and the
reports of which had spread all over Italy. Anyhow their advices informed them that he had
packed his bullion-chests with stones and old-iron and had parcelled out his packets of dust
and nuggets among the wagons of a long train of arena-beasts.

"We'll fool him!" Bulla boasted. "We'll nab him and hold him for a big ransom. Also we'll not
only make sure of his bullion chests in case our information is false, or based on an intentional
rumor he has given out as a blind; but we'll get that bullion, too, if it is not in the chests,
but hidden in the wagons in the guise of dusty packets of provender for the draft-cattle or
of meat for the caged beasts. We'll get it!"

Prom his mention of the wagons we fell into talk of the increasing difficulty of getting fresh
meat for the lions and other beasts, of the depletion of the flocks and herds along the roads
from Aquileia, to Rome; and he told me that his advices reported that the whole country near
the highways was already swept clean of all goats, sheep and cattle, except breeding stock,
milch stock and their choicest young kept for breeding. The inhabitants could get no beef,
mutton or goats' flesh for themselves; all had gone into the maws of hyenas, tigers, wolves
and the rest; and the procurators were insisting on the farmers selling their kids, lambs,
calves, ewes and cows-in-milk, any stock, even mules and horses; any animals fit to butcher
for lion-food.

From this we came round to chatting of my talks with the teamsters and of my prospect from
my crag. I had told Bulla of the crag long before, but he did not seem to have taken in the
idea. Now he was delighted.

"If I'd paid attention to you soon enough," he said, "I'd have put in a day or two with you
watching the show. It's too late now. Our prayed for chances are coming soon, and not far apart."

Next day he was gleeful.

"It's all going to work out like the end of a theater-play," he said. "The procurator and the
propraetor and his charge are practically certain to come along tomorrow afternoon. I calculate
that they will meet not far south of your crag. I've planned to post one ambush near the foot
of your crag, just south of it, another at a judicious interval down the road nearer Rome.
I'll have 'em between the two ambushes about the middle of the afternoon or between that and
sunset. We'll nab all three ransom prizes at once and we'll lay our hands on the jewels, coin
and gold almost at the same instant. I've arranged to lead the constables off on a false scent
about noon and they'll be miles away up a lonely crossroad when we pull off our coup. We'll
make our getaway, with the swag, hours before they can get wind of the occurrence and follow
on our trail. We'll have a long start of them.

"You can watch the whole thing from your crag. This ideal weather is going to last many days
yet. And the moon will be full two nights from now, so its light will help us two nights on
our getaway. I envy you up on that crag watching the show, comfortable as a senator at a theater,
aloft like Jupiter on Olympus in the Iliad."

Next day I made sure that the Villicus would not want me, had Septima put up for me an abundant
supply of her inviting food and set off about the middle of the morning for my crag, on foot,
of course. I climbed to the very top and ensconced myself under and among sheltering bushes
so that I was certain that I could not be seen from the road in either direction, yet could
view it both ways as far as the horizon, except just at the foot of the crag and where, in
the distance, hilltops hid the hollows behind them. Close by me I placed my precious kidskin
of much watered wine, I might say of water flavored with wine, so that it would keep cool in
the thickest shade. The day was hot, clear and still and the rays of the sun fierce. The occasional
slight breezes were very welcome.

The outlook was really magnificent; a broad prospect of rolling pasturage, hilly pasturage,
and wooded mountains; the grass-lands and grassy hillsides diversified by scattered trees,
clumps of trees and small groves; the lower levels of woodland broken by grassy glades; the
brighter green of the forests of chestnut, beech, and oak merging imperceptibly into the darker
green of the pine-forests; the score of farms in sight brilliant in the green landscapes like
semi-jewels; all the wide prospect glowing under a deep blue sky, varied by a very few very
white clouds, the intense sunlight beating down on everything. It was a perfect summer day.

I conned the road, on which I saw only the rear of a column of wagons convoying arena-beasts
receding over the hilltops to southwards, and the normal traffic, horsemen or two-horse carriages
or wagons far apart and few. I dozed.

I must have slept a full hour. I waked hot, but much refreshed, feeling lively and full of
interest in what was to come. Just after I waked I saw the constabulary, the officers and about
a third of the men on horseback, the rest afoot, come up the road from the direction of their
post, which was south of the crag. The infantrymen, tramped their fastest and the mounted men
kept pace with them. They were evidently off on their wild- goose chase. As they came into
sight below me, after passing my perch, I watched them double-quick northwards and wheel to
their right into the first crossroad. They were barely out of sight among the forested hills
when I saw momentarily, on the Highway, fully four miles to northward, on a sunlit hilltop,
what I took to be the first wagon of a train of teams drawing cages of arena-beasts. I watched
the road in that direction. What I saw confirmed my conjecture. Soon the road to northward
was filled from its farthest visible hilltop to just below my crag with wagon-teams such as
I had many times watched transporting cages of lions, tigers, leopards, panthers and the like.
I made out also some cages which I was certain contained hyenas.

Every little while I glanced the other way. Just as the first wagons of the long train vanished
from my sight into that section of the road immediately below me where my crag hid it from
my view, I saw appear on a hilltop to southwards what I made sure was the travelling carriage
of a wealthy noble. I conjectured that it had inside of it the ransomable propraetor. I kept
my eyes on the road in that direction, only glancing northward from time to time. One such
glance caught a glimpse of a travelling carriage among the beast-wagons; probably the procurator
in charge of the bullion.

After I had caught glimpses of it on several successive hilltops the propraetor's carriage
was near enough, on one of them, for me to recognize it. Of course, I had known from childhood
the travelling carriages of our senate and nobility. As everybody knows, each, has a certain
unmistakable individuality. Our makers of travelling carriages never make two precisely alike,
and, what is more, the tastes of different families are so different that patterns are very
unlike. I recognized the carriage for that of Faltonius Bambilio.

Why he was going out as propraetor of Asia so long after his term as praetor was a puzzle to
me. I accepted it as one of the countless eccentricities of Imperial administration under Commodus.
The irregularities of the management of the provinces ruled in the name of Caesar by prefects
and procurators had notoriously extended to the provinces ruled by proconsuls and propraetors
in the name of the senate. I had always disliked, despised and even hated Bambilio for his
pomposity, self-esteem and bad manners. I rejoiced at the opportunity to look on at his capture.

It was by this time past the middle of the afternoon, the day still surpassingly fair and lovely,
with few clouds in the sky, a steady light breeze, the mellow afternoon sunlight bathing the
world and the sun already visibly declining towards the western horizon.

While I was grinning at my thoughts and watching the advance of Bambilio's carriage, glancing
back at intervals at the beast-train and the procurator's coach, I caught sight, on the highway
behind Bambilio's carriage, of another travelling carriage of which I had descried no glimpse
before, though I must have missed seeing it as it topped several hills further south. When
I caught sight of it, it was near enough for me to recognize it at first view.

Vedia's travelling coach!

Between the first and second beat of my thumping heart, I went through an amazing variety of
complex, shifting and lucid thinking. And my thinking, multifold and effective as it was, was
but as a chip on the surface of a freshet in a mountain gorge amid the torrent of emotions
which inundated me.

Since I had begun to mend as the result of the succour and medication of old Chryseros Philargyrus
I had resolutely refrained from, thinking of Vedia. I had argued with myself that it was impossible
for me to forget or ignore the daily and hourly contrasts between my former status as a wealthy
nobleman and my present condition as a fugitive always in danger and generally in acute discomfort.
Amid the inevitable resultant depression I might keep alive, healthy and sane if I concentrated
my thoughts on self-congratulation at my survival. If I dwelt on my downfall I should lose
my wits. If, in addition to thoughts of my loss of rank, wealth, friends and ease I yielded
to my inclination to brood over my loss of Vedia, I should infallibly go insane. I resolutely
put thoughts of her away. I succeeded in keeping them away. During my winter at the hut in
the mountains, during my succeeding adventures, I had not thought of Vedia; thoughts of her
had crossed my mind but seldom and fleetingly.

Now, all at once, I was overwhelmed by the realization of how ardently, how unalterably I loved
her, how keenly I longed for her, how tenderly I felt towards her. Nothing, past, present or
future, mattered to me except Vedia and her welfare. I had been thinking with relished amusement
of the dismay of some pampered beauty haled from, her luxurious coach and off through the wild
mountains, immured in some lonely cave in the forests, guarded by coarse ruffians, reduced
to the most primitive diet and bedding, forced to endure all sorts of discomforts, and threatened
with death or worse if an enormous ransom were not forthcoming promptly. I had been chuckling
at the prospect of getting a far-off glimpse of the first act of this comedy.

My revulsion of feeling was dazing. I was hot and cold with horror at the thought of Vedia's
agony, terror and misery and of her danger among Bulla's swarthy, brutal ruffians with their
black curly hair and beards intensifying the villainy of their lowering faces, with their mighty
hands always close to their daggers. Vedia I must save!

How?

Almost as I recognized her carriage, my eyes, instinctively sweeping my entire outlook, caught
sight of Selinus feeding among a small herd of young mares on a hillside midway of the extensive
pasture on the other side of the road just to north of my crag. I knew there was, a little
to the north of the crag, on the same side of the road, a knoll from which that bit of hillside
was plainly visible at no great distance. I had my plan worked out in all its details.

I drank all I could hold of my watered wine, left my cloak by the kidskin, tucked a small packet
of food into my belt-wallet, and raced down, the steep slope of the mountainside to the north
of the crag, leaping from rock to rock under the huge forest trees. I reached the gentler slopes
near the highway and gained the top of the knoll. Selinus was in plain view, grazing among
his brides, and by good luck, all were headed towards me. I stood on the summit of the knoll
and waved my arms. Selinus caught sight of me and galloped joyously down the slope of the pasture
towards me. When he was near I ran towards him down the slope of the knoll, being careful that
he should not lose sight of me. My luck held and he and I approached the highway and each,
other where there was a comfortable interval between the lion's cage on the wagon which had
been passing when I topped the knoll and the leading yoke of the team tugging the wagon next
behind. The wind, also, was towards me, so that Selinus did not smell the lions till he and
I met in the highway and I had mounted him. Like a hunting dog bounding over a fallen tree
Selinus had leapt the tall thorn hedge which bordered the highway to keep stock off it and
in the meadow.

Once I was on his back we set off northward at full gallop, which almost at once quickened
into a maddened run. He had shied violently as we passed the first cage and he winded the lion
in it, but I stuck on him. Also I stuck on at each, less violent sideways lurch as we passed
cage after cage: tiger, panther, leopard, hyenas or lion; all smelt equally terrifying to him,
but he only ran faster and his terror went into speed ahead rather than into leaps aside.

When we reached the crossroad, up which the constabulary had turned, the procurator's carriage
was still somewhere up the highway; I had not seen it since I left the top of the crag. The
train of beast-wagons seemed endless.

Into the crossroad we turned and up it Selinus tore. I chuckled. No road- police, no matter
how young, nimble and long-winded, could maintain a double-quick any distance on that up-slope.
Selinus mounted the hills like a grayhound after a hare. We were sure to overtake the detachment
soon. They could not have gone far.

Overtake them we did and the maddened run at which Selinus scaled those steep hills caught
their officer's attention. I had rehearsed what I meant to say and wasted no words. What I
said conveyed the whole situation to him.

"We are too few horsemen to overcome them," he said, "but we can scare them from their booty
and maybe from their captives. We'll ride our fastest and we have time to reach them before
they are thinking of flight. The complete surprise will save the jewels, coin and gold and
most likely the lady and the officials.

"But you fellows must double-quick after us to support us in case they recover from their amazement,
rally and round on us from some near vantage-ground. You can retrace your steps in a tenth
of the time it took us to reach here. Race!

"And you, Felix, give me that racer of yours. Fall in with the men. Here Caius, give Felix
your saddle and bridle. Your mare is giving out. Felix, saddle and bridle your horse for me.
Caius, take my horse."

In a moment I was afoot among the infantry constables, the officer was in the saddle on Selinus,
the reins in his hands, and the horsemen were off at a tearing gallop, with us footmen after
them at a run which carried us almost by leaps down the steep slope.

When we reached the highway neither the mounted police nor any outlaws were anywhere in sight.
But it was plain that more time than I had realized had elapsed since I vaulted on Selinus.
Not only was the sun near the horizon, but the bandits had evidently been further up the road
than this. For an instant I marvelled that they had come this far at all when both their ambushes
were south of the crag. Then I realized that they had been searching the wagons for the bullion.
Every wagon was stalled, half were overset, the tongue-yoke of each was hamstrung, every cage
was empty, not a lion, tiger or leopard, panther or hyena to be seen; all, apparently, let
out that their cages might be ransacked. I conjectured that letting them out had taken less
time than it would have taken to kill them.

Panting, sweating, nearing exhaustion, we hastened along the highway at a jolting run not much
faster than the quick walk of untired men, but our best speed. We passed scores of stalled
wagons, every cage empty, two hamstrung oxen or mules or even horses lying in agony before
each wagon, the rest of the cattle either loosed and gone or held fast by the stalled wagons
behind them. We saw not one teamster, not one beast. The long series of stalled wagons, with
their hamstrung or stalled cattle and empty cages extended to the foot of the crag and beyond
it. Beyond it we came on the procurator's carriage, empty; no horse to it or by it. Still we
had seen no human being.

A half-mile further, midway of a flat stretch of road, on one side of which was an expanse
of swampy ground, varied with pools bordered by sedge, reeds and bushes, with areas of tussocks
and with clumps of willows and alders, we came on Bambilio's and Vedia's carriages, their gilded
decorative carvings, coral-red panel-bars, pearl-shell panel-panes, gilded rosette-bosses,
silver-plated hubs and gilded spokes and fellies glittering in the late sunshine.

His coach was without any sign of a horse near it, hers with all four hamstrung; their white
leather harness, with its gold and silver bosses, horridly stained with the blood they had
spattered all over them as they lay struggling and trying to kick. Both carriages were empty,
their cushions and mattresses and other contents scattered about on the roadway.

The sun was near setting. Our sergeants, blown as their men and as I, paused and mopped their
faces. We scanned the outlook. Far away well up the mountain side we caught sight of a group
of burly men, and among them a slender figure clad in a garb of pale lavender hue with the
sheen of silk. Below and close a similar group among which were two figures conspicuous for
crimson cloaks or the like. Far below and much nearer us we glimpsed the pursuing horsemen.

Off we set, and our fresh excitement seemed to put fresh vigor into all of us. We ran a full
mile straight across pastures and wooded hills towards the point where I had glimpsed Vedia.

The sun set.

The constables ran on, panting, but by no means failing.

I gave out.

The hopelessness of such pursuit took all the heart out of me.

I stopped.

I could not hope to keep up with the excited police. I could not believe that they would give
any effective support to their mounted comrades or even that they could overtake the outlaws
after sunset in such broken and wooded country, or that any or all of them could rescue any
of the prisoners I shuddered to think of Vedia in the clutches of such ruthless villains. But
I could accomplish nothing towards helping her. I turned to slink homewards.

Half way to the spot where we had left the highway I encountered a lion. He did not attack
me or menace me and I was not afraid of him. But the sight of him brought to my attention that
the light was waning and that I was, for a man afoot, a considerable distance from my cottage
in broken country full of escaped beasts of prey. I had never understood my power over all
animals, but I had always conceived that it depended on the way I looked to them when they
gazed at me. I was totally unafraid of the most ferocious beast by daylight, but by no means
comfortable in twilight or dusk, while after dark I had no reason to think that a lion, or
tiger would prove more tractable to me than to any other man. I felt that I must hasten home,
if I was ever to reach it alive. With what breath I had left I ran the rest of the easy downhill
path to the highway.

When I reached it twilight had not yet deepened into dusk and I could see fairly well. The
four hamstrung horses were struggling pitifully to rise and screaming at intervals. With my
sheathknife I put them out of their misery; as also the four pack-mules which lay, similarly
hamstrung, in the roadway, behind the carriage.

In spite of my dread of carnivora after dark I examined the coach and what lay about it on
the road. There were two kidskins, bulging roundly, presumably with wine. Three covered food
hampers, unopened; and, intact, a beautiful little inlaid chest, such as ladies have for their
combs, brushes, ointment-pots and similar toilet articles. From their condition I conjectured
that the bandits had just commenced to rummage the coach when the unexpected approach of the
mounted constables, whose small numbers they most likely did not realize, had scared them away.

Reluctant to be off and fearing to remain, I glanced about, irresolute. In a clump of willows
and alders in the midst of the swampy tract I caught sight of a bit of color out of keeping
with anything which naturally belonged there and suggesting a woman's garment. There was a
dryshod way to that clump of trees and bushes. I threaded it towards what I had glimpsed. When
I was hardly more than half way from the road to the clump I thought I heard a sob. I made haste.

Hearing the place I saw a young and slender and graceful woman dressed as a slave girl. Somehow
the sight of her brought to my mind's-eye vivid recollections of my convalescent outings in
Nemestronia's water-garden. She looked terrified and yet hesitating to flee from me, as if
she feared the swamp. A step nearer I realized that Vedia's maid, a woman not unlike her in
build, as faithful to her as Agathemer was to me and amazingly astute, had had the shrewdness
and also the time to fool the brigands by exchanging clothes with her mistress in the carriage.

"Vedia!" I exclaimed. "Caia!"

"Castor!" she screamed. "You know me? You call me Caia? Are you a ghost? Are you alive? And
that voice! Oh, are you real?"

"Real and alive," I answered. "I am myself. I am Hedulio."

To my amazement there, in the dusk under the willows, among the alders, she gave a half-smothered
shriek and the next instant her arms were round my neck and mine round her, and she was sobbing
on my shoulder, repeating:

"Call me Caia again. This is too good to be true."

CHAPTER XXVIII

MOONLIGHT

When our transports had abated a little I was aware that the twilight was deepening into dusk
and that I must somehow save Vedia from the roaming wild beasts. I guided her along the twisting
track from her hiding-place to the road. As we gained it I heard a loud snarl of a lion or
tiger or panther far off towards the crag. We must make haste.

I reflected that it would be a very strong and enterprising beast, even if a lion, which would
break into Vedia's coach when its panels were slid and fastened.

"We are too far from any habitation," I said, "for us to reach any while the light holds. I
dare not make the attempt with you among all these freed wild beasts. I should be afraid to
try it alone in this deepening dusk. The best thing we can do is to get inside your carriage,
slide the panels and trust to them to keep out any inquisitive leopard or lion. With the carcasses
of four well-fed horses and as many mules laid ready to eat, no tiger ought to be hungry enough
to be eager after us."

"I had thought that, too," she agreed.

I peered through the open door into the coach, which was roomy. Then I replaced in it its mattresses
and cushions, Vedia showing me how they fitted and, going round to the other door and opening
it, helping me to lay smooth the unmanageable feather-stuffed upper-cushions. She also showed
me the receptacles for her toilet-box, the food hampers and the kidskins. While we were thus
busied the almost full moon rose clear and bright over a distant mountain. I helped Vedia into
the coach and she disposed herself at full length on its cushions, sinking into the feathers.
I walked round the coach and slid all the panels except the front panel through which the moonlight
entered, then I climbed inside, shut and fastened the door, shut the panels, fastened each
and stretched out by Vedia, like her with plenty of cushions and pillows under my head and
shoulders.

As I fastened the last panels we heard the hunting-squall of a leopard at no great distance.
Vedia clung to me, shuddering.

"You have saved me, Caius," she said. "As you did on the terrace at Nemestronia's."

Naturally, for a while, we exchanged kisses and caresses without any intermingled words.

When, she spoke she said:

"How do you come to be alive?"

"That," I said, "is thanks to Agathemer and is a long tale. I am faint with hunger and thirst,
you yourself should be in need of nourishment and might be the better for it. There should
be food in those hampers and wine in the kidskins."

"There is," she said, "and plenty. I am as hungry and thirsty as you, now I am no longer terrified
and am recovering from my panic. But I am intensely eager to hear your story. Do begin at the
beginning just as soon as you can, and tell it while we eat."

Then she showed me how to dispose the hampers as they were designed to be arranged while the
occupants of the coach ate. They were very generously filled with the most luxurious fare:
hard-boiled eggs, ham, cold roast pork, sliced thin; breast of roast goose, breast of roast
duck, young guinea-fowls, broiled whole and cut up, broiled chickens, broiled squabs; half
a. dozen kinds of bread, a quarter loaf and different sorts of rolls; lettuce and radishes;
bottles of oil, vinegar, garum sauce, and other sauces; salt smoked fish; figs, both big green
figs and small purple figs; a jar of strained honey, several kinds of cakes, and plenty of
salt, pepper, other relishes, and a lavish provision of knives and of silver, plates, spoons,
cups and other utensils.

"Why all this profusion?" I queried. "You have enough here for a party of ten."

"I always have a variety like this," she explained. "I generally have very little appetite
on a journey so I tell Lydia to put in all the things she can get which she knows I like. Then
something is likely to tempt me."

We feasted by moonlight, while I told my story from the moment when I had received her warning
letter.

"I knew that you mounted the horse in front of Plosurnia's Tavern," she said, "but I have never
heard of you after that. Tanno and I did all we could to find out what had become of you; all
we could without risking the secret service getting an inkling that we had a hope that you
were not dead.

"In fact it was not only advertised from the Palace in due course, but circumstantially reported
to us privately, that the secret service had learned that you had arranged for a fishing-vessel
to take you to sea from Sipontum. They had then set three detachments of Praetorians to intercept
you, one on each road, with watchers to warn them if you were recognized. You were seen or
betrayed somewhere between Hadria and Auximum, one account said at Ortona, and the Praetorians
killed you.

"Tanno said that the secret service always gave out such an account if they failed to locate
and capture any man they should have arrested. But the confirmation of the story by three different
private agencies plainly destroyed his hopes that you might still be alive. I tried to keep
on hoping, but, after a whole year, I stopped lying awake and sobbing in the dark; while I
felt more grief for you than I ever felt for Satronius Patavinus and more truly widowed than
when he died, I ceased to grieve and regained my interest in gaieties and suitors. Don't you
think that was natural?"

"Very natural," I admitted and went on with my story.

The moon rose higher and its rays no longer struck on our faces, but, striking through the
open panel, diffused from what part of the cushion or sides of the coach they fell on directly,
lit up the whole interior with a pearly glimmer. By this subdued light Vedia looked bewitchingly
charming and coquettish, all the more because of the contrast between her elaborate coiffure
and the simple costume her maid had worn.

I ate liberally and with relish and she appeared to enjoy her food as I did.

"You don't seem a bit worried," I remarked, "over the loss of your jewels."

"Loss!" she exclaimed. "I haven't lost them, they are all in the secret compartment under us
inside the coach body, just where Lydia put them before we left Rome. The bandits had barely
begun to ransack the coach when we heard the yells of the constabulary and then the hoof-beats
of their horses. They and their horses made so much noise that the brigands thought they had
to do with a hundred or more and fled, dragging off Bambilio and Lydia and leaving me and the
hampers, even the wine-skins. They never were near laying hands on those jewels. They had Bambilio's
coin-chests, to be sure; but not my jewelry nor so much as a nugget of the bullion they had
expected. They were preparing to torture the procurator to make him reveal the hiding place
of his bullion, when the yelling and galloping horsemen scared them away."

I congratulated her and we ate with even more relish. Both of us, however, were sparing of
the wine, though I gloated at the savor of the first really good wine I had tasted for more
than two years. 

I must come to deliverance, or carthage CULCHARD will tire her had
to decease.

(to Hens.) captiously, grasping. (traverse to CULCHARD, postdate in Escort.) how letter'ye do,
lose Foot? Doing most Entertainment, i understand. Ah, CULCHARD, a't go you state me carried you were
travel-- might have travel possibly.

I state, i've get no usherette. Culch. (drily). So we comprehend
a outline, an uncertainty, in the humiliation, my lover.

A. (to
attend the Thymine.). Do arrive and hear i go to him, the diversion.
Mister.

CULCHARD is above description in all Temples of matter, i presume
opportunity.

Escort. Your vriendts laike them to choin, yais? A yellowwood for
von. I exblain all delaware beecture.

Woman. you'rhenium, Mister. PODBURY, but your ally is explicate man
all equitable splendidly market.

The.
(offend). Good i had best disregard my fellow, and give we in CULCHARD,
again?

Man. the, i'calciferol had instead love myself to have you do that.
Resource on travel out round i went.

You mustn't
heed them, off! Podb. Oh, if you'letter had possibly! (excessively, to steer we.) they can do
without rome'. Thus hide me something best in a gore-and-roar the
formation-- the, at which beginning.

[they deposit. Escort. A is von the is change amusant. You ignore
delaware schtory, eh?

Podb. Macbeth, eh? oh, i understand-- care! No, what was a? Escort.

I dingle it you. (he state it; PODBURY descend into the concept.)... and off
i vind most extremity. Recklessly delaware ole voman-- Hens. (inschdantly).
Oh, since i've had offered all dat.

What'element podb one about?

Usherette. The galled "De lasht s Gannon."

Them understand delaware vigure op viz delaware vings, vile lasht,
and go we in a Mastermind purns delaware vrontier.

The. (excessively). What'element he doing the temples for? Usherette. I tont cognize i. I subbose
begause the dey are bosts, or (merely) begause since he is the Place.
Culch.

(stir
PODBURY as he travel away).

Oh-- er-- PODBURY, i'thousand. Travel to meal announced with a-- ah--
trotters.

Understand you carried at the unattended eventide, i say? Advantage-pass. The. (tiredly). Oh, ta-ta!
(to free himself.). And that'mho chap who state he desire to resource
out of make ally!

How another devil amiss i travel to acquire through day by myself? (to Usherette.) viciously,
that'element meekly for tomorrow. When i desire you hitherto, and i'll allow you cognize. [he disregard
him, and digest yet in Audience, and with no am been train with sacrifices
on orthography out podb Adopter'disenchantment.***** that Tearjerker--
away of Seedtime.

Hither she'them visited element marry myself to him!

Whilst i go and roll questionably, for deficiency of aught less to do; whilst my god and Element
merely waste with plot-- she was doing it went unitedly!

And i am not storm he has been made the quarry to which the state
and trickery of girl hither foul; i must alone occupy the Element
thus to take manner Peer and no Lady carried of Dynasty'Quadrate.

What that carthage!

For, like small Sailor Horner,
she go in digit and draw out that drupe; forlornly there once was
same clip when we sit in the Iodine-131-- though her ma appear glum.
If i do not bury, it take god in Mercury December, but i remember
best one day of June, and, for a has occur, i wish to forget what
we whispered and state out by dark. But a peace had made practically
to that idea, she has been marry the, i must alone neaten ever all
a reminiscence of past.

There'i lucifer-production, and her had couple to
joy as they ne'metal have before. Market has occur. Her father, i cognize,
hither state it would demonstrate at be so with boy, and that Hippeastrum
has done myself memorial now she'went mho marry some Peer. What she
did, after all, was unfeignedly for a worst intend. She may someplace
be fond Peer-- who can state? In Being she has been make her investing,
which i swear out after a plenty she will lose to give her merely.

And as for myself my desire'far nil is, with tube and my Iodine-131
shall remain myself on ledge, though them to deny me to state you,
my temple, i'letter have bought you the wife.


The fight lasted no long time. We could not conjecture which combatant was victorious, but
they dashed off, one pursuing the other. The remaining lion roared twice; long, choking, snarling
torrents of thunderous noise; then it also went away. Except for distant snarls, squalls and
roars, we were in a silent moonlit world, almost peaceful. I ventured to unfasten the other
front panel and slide it a little way open. The rays of the high moon, poured in on our feet,
we looked out on a magical prospect.

Vedia put a relishing warm arm round my neck.

"Call me Caia again," she whispered. "Where you are Caius I am Caia!" [Footnote: From the Roman
marriage-ritual.] The implication thrilled me. It was as if we were married, had been man and
wife for long past.

It may have been midnight, was near midnight when she said:

"I don't want to go to sleep at all. We can do without one night's sleep. We can sleep tomorrow
night, when we are not together. Let's try to keep awake every minute till daylight."

In fact it was not easy to sleep, for a pack of hyenas, apparently as friendly with each other
as if they had hunted together since they were weaned, came and picked the bones of the horses
and mules, even ate the bones, which cracked loudly between their powerful jaws. The noise
of their gluttony would have kept awake a pair sleepier than we.

But, when the moon was almost half way down the sky, when the roars and squalls and snarls
of lions and leopards and tigers and the horrid laughter of hyenas had ceased to sound, when
the night silence was so complete that we could hear the cocks crowing near distant farmsteads
and the faint breezes rustling in the willows, we did sleep, she first, her arms round me and
her head on my shoulder.

When we woke, with the slanted moon rays on the back corner of the coach behind me, she cuddled
to me luxuriously, patted me and presently whispered, in a bantering, roguish tone which I
detected even in her softest whisper:

"You remember that old sweetheart of yours?"

"I don't remember any sweetheart except you," I retorted. "I never had any sweetheart except you."

"I mean," she said, "that minx who made eyes at you and all your country neighbors and certainly
tried to marry you and most of your Sabine friends."

"You mean Marcia?" said I.

"Ah," she said, playfully and teasingly, "I thought you would remember her name. If you remember
her name you must remember her."

"Of course I remember Marcia," I said. "How could I forget her after the way she led my uncle
by the nose, had half the countryside mad for her, set us all by the ears, rebuffed Ducconius
Furfur, and married Marcus Martius?

"If I had never known her before I'd be bound to recall the creature who embroiled me with
you. My! You were in a wax!"

"I certainly was," she whispered, "and I thought I had reason to be indignant. But now I believe
your version of her relations with you and feel no qualms at recollecting the slanders I then
credited. But, the point is, you remember her."

"My dear," I said, "if I had never set eyes on Marcia except when I encountered her in the
Baths of Titus the day you rescued me from drowning when I fainted in the swimming pool, I'd
remember her for life. She is too beautiful to forget."

"Am I so hideous?" she demanded.

"You are the loveliest woman alive," I vowed. "But Marcia is amazingly spectacular and the
pictures she makes impress themselves on one's memory and eyesight. I could never forget her
in that brilliant tableau on the camp-platform facing the mutineers, even if I had never seen
her before."

"I was coming to that," Vedia said. "Marcia, who was a foundling and a slave as the adopted
child of a slave, has risen so high that she is truly Empress in all but the official title.
She has all the honors Faustina or Crispina ever had, except that she keeps out of those religious
rites, participation in which is confined to women married with the full old-time ceremonies
and observances."

I then told her what Agathemer and I had heard about Marcia while domiciled with Colgius, and
of the absence from all talk about her of any mention of or allusion to Marcus Martius; I asked
if she knew what had become of him or, indeed, anything about him.

 "Oh, yes," she said, "all Roman society knew the main facts and dear old
Tanno supplied me with many of the intimate details. Commodus made a point
of having Martius specially presented to him because he had heard that he
had been, with you and Tanno, one of the foremost fighters in your affrays
in Vediamnum and near Villa Satronia. At his private audience he
congratulated and bepraised Martius and acclaimed his prowess. Martius,
who seems to have been a very fine fellow, disclaimed any pretensions to
such laudations and modestly stated that he had, at the beginning of each
fight, been far in the rear in your travelling-coach, with Marcia; that
she had clung to him and so delayed his getting out; that each time he had
gotten out and picked up the staff of a disabled combatant, but that, in
each combat, he had arrived barely in time to land a few blows on some of
the routed enemy; that in neither affray had he done any real fighting or
been in any danger or performed any exploits.

"Commodus, in his blunt way, had asked whether he was good for anything, anyhow. Martius had
replied that he was considered more than a mediocre horse-master.

"Commodus had then invited him to demonstrate his prowess in the Stadium of the Palace. There
Martius had shown such skill, courage, agility, judgment, grace and ease that Commodus was
delighted. He had Martius ride a number of wild, fierce and unmanageable horses and was more
and more charmed with him.

"Next day he had another batch of intractable mounts for him. As Martius was manoeuvring one
which he had almost subdued Commodus stepped too near the plunging brute and, in saving the
Emperor from being run down and trampled, Martius was somehow thrown and his neck broken.

"Commodus was very penitent, felt that he had caused Martius' death, had him given a funeral
of Imperial magnificence and, as soon as her grief had quieted enough, paid Marcia a ceremonial
visit of condolence, as if she had been the widow of a full general killed in battle on the
frontier.

"One sight of Marcia was enough. Within a very short space of time her wiles had ensnared him
and Crispina raged in vain."

Then she told me all the story of the intrigues by which Marcia poisoned the Emperor's mind
against the Empress, until Crispina fell under all sorts of suspicion in the eyes of Commodus:
of how at the same time Marcia subtly laid snares for Crispina and enticed her into injudicious
behavior with several gallants, until finally the Emperor put her under surveillance, later
relegated her to Capri, then to some more distant island, and finally had her brought back
to Rome, publicly tried, convicted and executed.

I told her my conjectures as to the queer outcome of the arrest of Ducconius Furfur and as
to who Palus really was and who occupied the throne while Palus exhibited himself as wrestler,
boxer, charioteer and what not.

"I know nothing to confirm your surmises," she said, "but we about the Court have often been
puzzled at the way Commodus appeared to be in two places at once. You set me thinking."

After the second cockcrow, since dawn was not now far away, we fell to talking of the future.

"I shan't marry anybody, ever, except you, dear!" she promised, without my asking it and again
and again: "I'll remain a widow until I die unless we outlive Commodus, and Tanno and I succeed
in having you rehabilitated. I have many consolations in my wealth and social position and
friends."

"And suitors," I put in, mimicking her tone when she bantered me about Marcia.

"And suitors!" she replied. "Caius, I love you, and I'll never marry anyone else, but I do
love attention. I love to keep a dozen good catches dangling about me; their wooings and their
gifts and their behavior generally are no end of good fun. And it's good fun to have half the
marriageable belles furious with me. I cannot help encouraging any man, or even lad, who moons
about after me. But you have never had any reason to be jealous, you have none now, you never
will have."

I expressed my faith in her the best I could.

"You are a dear, dear boy," she said, "and it is good of you not to be jealous, even when you
have so little reason to be jealous. I have much more. Suppose I raged about Nebris or Septima?"

I tried to change the subject and succeeded, when I suggested that we must plan what we were
to do at dawn and in the future. After a full discussion and the airing of her ideas and mine,
we agreed that there was little or no likelihood of the road-constables returning or of anyone
else approaching her carriage before full daylight. As soon as there was sufficient light for
it to be safe, I would open the panels enough for us to keep watch up and down the highway
and in the direction the constables had taken. When we saw them returning I was to wait till
they were near enough to assure her safety and then, at the last moment, I was to slip out
on the other side of the coach. That was next the swamp and I could be out of sight among the
willows and alders when less than two score yards from the road; also I knew the path across
the swamp and could cross it and go off home through the meadows and pastures beyond it. This
was our plan.

She said she would, whenever the road-constables returned, behave as if she had been alone
in the coach all night. She had no doubt that the police would give her every assistance in
their power.

"Of course," she said, "my intendant galloped off somewhere, somehow and the coachman and outrider
and mule-drivers ran away; you couldn't expect any or all of them to make a stand against all
those armed brigands. If the constables return, as they will, all my men will come back. Osdarus
will manage to get me horses from the nearest change-station or somewhere else, somehow. Once
at an inn I can get fresh horses. I can buy a team at Nuceria."

"Can you pay for a team?" I interrupted. "Have you the cash?"

"My gold and silver," she laughed, "are in the other secret compartment. The outlaws did not
get my coin any more than my jewelry. Why look! Lydia's earrings are in my ears now and her
necklace round my neck and her bracelets on my wrists and her rings on my fingers. The rascals
were so sure of not being interfered with and so much at ease that they were startled frantic
by the galloping horsemen and scuttled off with Bambilio's coin-chest, dragging him and poor
Lydia and totally forgetting me, thinking me the maid, not even noticing these little trinkets,
which are mostly silver and some of gold and so worth stealing.

"I have the cash to pay for two teams or three: I brought plenty for the journey to Aquileia,
because we could learn little of the state of the roads beyond Bononia and I thought I might
have to travel by Placentia or even by Milan. I'll get back to Rome, as fast as I can. I don't
want to be married now, so I don't want to go on to Bononia, let alone all the way to Aquileia.
If I did want to go on, the bandits have run off with my maid, and I could hardly get along
without her, and they have also removed my escort, and I certainly could not keep on without
a proper escort. I have every excuse for turning about at once and making haste to get out
of this dangerous neighborhood and getting back home.

"Poor Lydia! I hate to think of her at the mercy of those brutal ruffians. They may maltreat
her horribly if they discover that they have the maid instead of the mistress, and by the maid's
device. I'll tell everybody I see that I'll pay any ransom in reason, even beyond reason, for
poor Lydia, if the brigands will restore her to me safe and sound. I fancy their friends hereabouts,
and almost every inhabitant of the district is a friend of theirs, by your account, will speedily
have conveyed to them the news that their capture is worth almost as much ransom as they hoped
to extort for me. That news ought to protect Lydia while she is among the outlaws and ought
to help me to get her back without much delay.

"As soon as I am in Rome I'll send a trusty agent up here to set on foot negotiations with
the outlaws and to rescue Lydia by paying what they ask for her.

"And, the moment I reach Rome I'll set in motion all the forces I can control or enlist, and
I can influence many men in high places, I'll have all I can influence working quietly and
most unobtrusively for that official manumission, of yours. Once you are free you had best
travel secretly and without haste to Bruttium. No folk are more secretive or more loyal than
the herders and foresters of Bruttium. Not only your former slaves on your uncle's estate there,
but all their neighbors will do as much to keep secret your presence among them, and shield
you and to make you comfortable and happy as the Umbrians hereabouts have been doing to help
and protect Bulla and his band and to shield them from the constabulary and authorities. In
Bruttium you can lurk in safety as long as Commodus lives and it will even be safe for us two
to exchange letters. In Bruttium it can be arranged that no secret-service agent or Imperial
spy can ever get wind of your existence, let alone of your hiding-place. You can be free, in
a way, housed comfortably, with no duties, able to pass your time as you please, and well cared
for. Tanno and I will see that you are supplied with cash for the journey and for your needs
after you reach your haven."

The cocks crowed vociferously at all the neighboring farmsteads and we could hear them plainly
across the considerable distances from us to each. The moon hung low and the pale first light
of day began to overcome the moonlight.

Vedia petted me and I petted her and she repeated her vows of unalterable fidelity to her pledge
to marry no one else and to hope to marry me.

As dawn brightened the hyenas burst into a belated chorus and a lion roared far away. After
that the beasts made no sounds which came to our ears.

Vedia insisted on my eating more of her delicacies and, I confess, I ate liberally and with
relish. A night with almost no sleep and much excitement causes an unnatural hunger at dawn
and the delicious rarities tempted me.

She explained, over and over, that I was to behave precisely as if we had not encountered each
other and be sure not to mistake some secret-service agent for her emissary. The watchword
was to be, in memory of that used at my escape from Rome, that whoever came from her or Tanno
to me would ask:

"Can you direct me to the leopard-tamer who rode the horse with the blue saddle-cloth?"

I was to reply:

"The blue saddle-cloth was bordered with silver."

He was then to respond:

"I have silver for the leopard-tamer."

I was then to say:

"I am the leopard-tamer and I have a pouch for your silver."

After we had rehearsed the passwords till both were sure neither could forget or misplace a
word, as the day was coming on, we kept a keen lookout through the partly opened panels. Before
sunrise I saw the mounted constables approaching down the mountain trail, for there were several
points on it where horsemen could be seen through the trees, even from where we were.

I unfastened the coach door next the swamp, we kissed each other again and again, and, as the
horsemen came in sight away across the meadows where they emerged from the woods, we exchanged
a last farewell kiss and I slipped out and across the swamp.

BOOK IV

DISSIMULATIONS

CHAPTER XXIX

FELIX

From the marsh my path homewards led me past the villa, for it was directly between my cottage
and the swamp. The very first human being I encountered was the Villicus himself.

"Hullo, Felix," he said. "I've been looking for you. We need you. Septima says she hasn't seen
you since early yesterday. Where have you been all night?"

"Up a tree," I replied. "Bulla told me day before yesterday that he and his lads planned a
spectacular capture and robbery on the highway south of Diana's Crag for yesterday afternoon.
Most of the days lately on which you haven't wanted me I have spent on top of the crag, watching
the traffic on the road. I went up there about the third hour yesterday morning, to view the
show Bulla had promised me. I expected to enjoy it, but, somehow, when I saw the victims' coaches
come in sight, the idea of a Roman lady in the clutches of Bulla's gang went against my gorge.
I ran down alongside the crag towards where Selinus was grazing in the roadside pasture. He
came to me and I galloped up the highway and up the first crossroad to warn the constabulary,
who had gone up that road about noon, on some false information given them by someone at Bulla's
suggestion. Their officer took my horse and I had to run with the infantrymen. My breath gave
out and my legs too and I dropped behind when they left the highway south of the crag and struck
off across country after the bandits, who had been scared off by the cavalrymen. It took me
a long time to get my breath and rest my legs. When I felt able to walk it was after sunset.
I can gentle any beast by daylight, but after dusk I'm no better off than any other man facing
a lion or tiger. The brigands had opened scores of cages and the freed beasts began to roar
and snarl soon after sunset. I climbed a maple and spent the night in a fork about six yards
from the ground, where I felt safe as long as I could keep awake. I dreaded to fall if I dozed,
and I was frightfully drowsy after such a hot day and such a long run. When the sun rose I
started home."

"Come along, prudent youth," he said, "we need you. The sub-procurator in charge of the beast-train
which the brigands interfered with is at the villa: so are half his beast-tenders and teamsters.
The animal-keepers vow they dare not attempt to recapture their charges and the procurator
is angry and worried and anxious about his responsibility and what will be expected of him
by his superiors. He does not want to lose one single lion or tiger or even hyena; wants them
recaged at once. So do I. I've lost more stock than I like to think of. The hyenas and panthers
and leopards have slaughtered a host of my sheep and goats, and the lions and tigers have banqueted
on some of my most promising colts and on many of my cattle.

"Can you duplicate your feat with the panther loose on the highway?"

"I can repeat it as often as I can get anywhere near any of those beasts by daylight," I said.
"Let us start at once. There is no hurry, for the beasts will do little damage in daytime,
as most of them will hide till dark. But there seems to be a large number loose; I doubt if
I can catch all of them before dusk."

"It'll take you two days, Felix, or three," the Villicus laughed. "The procurator states that
his train had in its cages twenty-five panthers, as many leopards, fifty tigers, a hundred
lions and two hundred hyenas. That's four hundred beasts for you to catch as fast as they can
be located by their keepers, assisted by my whole force of horse-wranglers, herdsmen, shepherds,
and the rest and all the farmers hereabouts, and all their slaves. We'll have plenty of help.
Three farmers are at the villa now raving over the loss of sheep or cattle; every farmer will
turn out with his men to help us; anyhow, every bumpkin and yokel will want to enjoy the fun
and they'll all flock to the scene."

I do not know how many days I spent catching the escaped beasts for the procurator. I enjoyed
the first day, did not mind the second and was not painfully weary on the third; but the rest
passed in a daze of exhaustion; though I had good horses, a fresh horse whenever I asked for
it, wine and good wine as often as I was thirsty, plenty of good food and every consideration;
and although the various farms at which I spent the nights (for we did not once return to the
villa) did all they could for my comfort, the repetition, for hundreds of times, of dismounting,
approaching a lion or tiger in his daylight lair among reeds or tall grass or bushes, catching
him by the mane or the scruff of his neck, leading him to his cage and caging him, was extremely,
even unbelievably exhausting.

Whenever any of our searchers located a beast in hiding the teamsters drove their wagons with
his cage as near as might be; in no case did I lead a cowed captive half a mile; seldom two
furlongs. But I walked a great distance in the course of each of these days, rode many miles
in the course of all the riding I did between recaptures, and was never calmed between my recurrent
periods of tense excitement. I felt limp.

My condition was not improved by the occurrence and recurrence of perturbing excitement from
a more disquieting cause. Early on my third day of animal-catching, just as I stepped back
from bolting the door of a cage on a lion, I felt rather than saw out of the tail of my eye
someone rush towards me from behind, trip when a few yards from me and fall flat. I whirled
to look and beheld a mere lad, one of my fellow-slaves at the villa, a stable cleaner, scrambling
to his feet. When he was half up the man nearest him, another of my fellow-slaves, an assistant
colt-wrangler, apparently the man who had tripped him, dealt him a smashing blow on the ear
with his clenched fist and felled him again. As he went down I saw that he had a long-bladed,
keen-edged, gleaming dagger in his right hand. It flew from his grasp as he plowed up the ground
with his face. The colt- wrangler picked it up.

We were on a crossroad, some distance from the highway, in the woods. The wagon and cage were
surrounded by almost a score of the slaves of the estate, with nearly as many more helpers;
farm-slaves, farmers, teamsters, beast-warders, yokels and stragglers; the Villicus was near.

"Napsus," he said to the colt-wrangler, "kill him with his own dagger!"

Instantly Napsus stabbed the fallen lad between the shoulders. The thrust went home neatly,
under the left shoulder-blade, deep and inclined a little upward. It must have reached his
heart, for he died after one violent convulsion which threw him into the air, and turned him
completely over, his corpse slapping the ground like a flopping fish on a stream- bank.

"Hand me that rope!" the Villicus ordered a teamster.

He knotted a hangman's noose at one end of the rope, tried it to make sure it worked properly
and ordered the estate slaves to hang the body to a convenient limb of a near by tree. They did.

I stood, gazing questioningly, first at the swinging corpse, then at the Villicus.

"Felix," said he, "I perceive that you do not understand. Tiro meant to kill you, and would
most likely have succeeded had not Napsus first tripped him and then killed him. Napsus shall
be handsomely rewarded in every fashion within my power. Tiro has been dealt with as he deserved,
as any similar fool deserves. I propose to protect you to the extent of my abilities and authority,
which includes peremptory execution of any estate slave whom I so much as suspect; I don't
have to wait for any overt act, nor for any threat, uttered or whispered or hinted. You can
rely on all the protection I can give you and I fancy it will suffice. If there is any other
fool about let him take notice."

He spoke loudly, so as to be audible to everyone of the gathering.

I stared numb, puzzled, almost dazed.

"But," I blurted out, "why did he try to kill me? Why should anyone want to kill me?"

"You don't know Umbria, lad," spoke the Villicus, indulgently. "Many eyes in addition to those
of the teamsters and beast-wardens beheld you on Selinus, galloping your fastest northwards
along the highroad. Many saw you turn Selinus up the crossroad the viarii had taken. Many saw
their officer on Selinus when the cavalrymen charged down the highroad and scattered the bandits.
Many saw you afoot among the infantrymen when they turned from the crossroad into the highway
and as they double-quicked down it. Every partisan of the outlaws blames you for their discomfiture,
and regards you as a detestable traitor, many a one is looking for such a chance at you as
Tiro thought he saw. I'll give you a body-guard of men I can trust, for the rest of this beast-catching
job. But keep a bright lookout, yourself. You may need all your own strength and quickness
to save yourself."

The strain of this surprise and anxiety was a hundredfold as trying as the most daunting beast-catching.
I felt it.

I felt it more after a second similar attempt that very afternoon. I had threaded a dense patch
of undergrowth, approached a lurking leopard, caught her and led her out of the thicket, led
her almost to her waiting cage. By this time our helpers were so used to seeing me cage lions,
panthers, leopards and tigers that they no longer, as at first, hovered at a distance, gaping
at me as I, completely alone with my catch, led it towards its cage, set ready by its wagon,
from which the team had been loosed and removed: no longer drew off some yards beyond the cage
and wagon and stood ready for instant flight if my capture escaped me; they now merely drew
aside as I approached and opened a lane for me and my charge, no more afraid than if I had
been leading a calf.

As I drew near the cage, my mind intent on the leopard and my eyes on the open cage door and
its fastenings, a slave of one of the neighboring farmers dashed at me, sheath-knife uplifted.
He came from my left side, from a little behind me. I whirled round to face him, pulling the
leopard round roughly, so that she snarled. I let her go. She was face to face with my reckless
assailant and they were close together. She gave one joyful, gloating, triumphant squall and
one mighty leap. Her claws sank into his shoulders, her long white fangs met, horridly crunching,
in his throat, and she bore him to the earth where she crouched flat on him, greedily gulping
his blood.

The bystanders fairly fell over backwards in their panic as they scattered. I stood by the
leopard, and when she had exhausted the supply of hot blood, succeeded in caging her; but dropped
limp on the earth once I had fastened her in her cage, for a beast of prey which had just tasted
human blood was a ward with which I had felt very uncertain of being able to cope.

After that no one attempted to molest me while out catching the escaped beasts. But the night
before my last day of beast-catching, as I lay abed very fast asleep at a villa fully ten miles
from the Imperial villa where I belonged, I became gradually aware of some noises, then slowly
I wakened. There was a fight going on at my door. Soon after I got out of bed our host and
my master, the Villicus, came with a light and three or four slaves. The light revealed One
of my fellow-slaves flat on his back and another throttling him. A dagger lay on the floor.
Evidently the one had saved me from the other.

Late next afternoon, far up in the hills near Helvillum, I caught and caged the last hyena.
These, being smaller and more cowardly than the nobler animals, were harder to locate. It was
after sunset when we reached the villa where we found the procurator in charge of the beast-train;
and along with, him and his men were welcomed and entertained.

After our bath and a lavish dinner the Villicus exchanged a few whispered words with our host
and then he and I had a long conference alone. He explained that my life was in danger, not
only from local friends of Bulla and partisans of the King of the Highwaymen who all not merely
regarded me with detestation and hatred as a traitor but suspected me of being a government
spy, but also from the King of the Highwaymen himself, who was certain to be informed by Bulla
of how they had been discomfited and who had a long arm and countless capable and intrepid
agents. He was of the opinion that the three attempts at assassination which I had escaped
were a mere beginning. He was emphatic that I could not remain on the Imperial estate and survive
many days. He advised me strongly not to return to the villa.

Then he told me that the procurator of the beast-train had sent to Rome by an Imperial courier,
whom he had managed to intercept at a change-station, a letter setting forth my powers over
fierce animals and asking that an order be sent for my transfer from the horse-breeding estate
to the Beast Barracks attached to the Colosseum, where the animals are housed from their arrival
in Rome, until their display in the arena; that this letter had come into the hands of the
same officials who already had under consideration the requisition for me made by the procurator
in charge of the Beast Barracks; that somehow these same officials appeared to know nothing
of my identity with the slave who had foiled the conspirators who were fomenting a mutiny in
the ergastulum at Nuceria, and for whose manumission a request had been made by the aldermen
of that town, and indeed appeared to know nothing of any such request for manumission; that
a requisition for my transfer from the horse-breeding estate to the Beast- Barracks at Rome
had been made out, approved by the higher officials, sealed, stamped and sent out by an Imperial
courier and received that very afternoon by the procurator of the beast-train, who consequently
had authority to take me to Rome with him as one of the attendants on the animals of his train,
which was now again in order, I having recaged all the four hundred escaped beasts, except
five hyenas, one panther and one lion which had been killed by stock-owners and their slaves
while attacking stock.

The Villicus went on to say that this fell out very advantageously for me, in his opinion.
He advised me not only to go with the procurator without demur, but to arrange with him that
I drop the name of Felix and adopt some other. He pointed out that, if it was known that Felix
the Horse-wrangler of Umbria had gone to Rome as Felix the Beast-Tamer, then the King of the
Highwaymen would be able without difficulty to trace me and set on me his ruthless agents until
one of them assassinated me.

I felt that he was right. The danger to my former self as Andivius Hedulio, implicated in a
conspiracy against Caesar, appeared now far off and unimportant, in spite of the fact that
the secret service might still be keen to catch me and the hue and cry out after me from the
Alps to Rhegium; the danger to my present self from the enmity of Bulla, of his ruffians, of
their partisans in Umbria, of their Chief, the King of the Highwaymen, whoever he might be,
appeared close and menacing. A change of name would make it impossible for Tanno and Vedia
to carry out her plan for my manumission by the fiscus, my clandestine journey to Bruttium
and my comfortable and unsuspected seclusion there until some other prince succeeded our present
Emperor. I had grasped eagerly at the thought of this plan and had built much on it. But I
realized that Bulla's admirers or the agents of the King of the Highwaymen would make an end
of me long before Vedia's influence could obtain my manumission; and that, if she did accomplish
all she expected, I could never hope to escape the vigilance of the tenacious and expert pursuers
who would inevitably dog my footsteps.

I thought the advice of the Villicus good. I regretted that I was not to say farewell to Septima;
she deserved a most fervent expression of my esteem, gratitude, regard and good wishes; but,
after my encounter with Vedia, Septima seemed of very little importance. I had my amulet-bag
on its thong about my neck and my coin-belt about my waist. I agreed to go with the procurator
and thanked the Villicus for his solicitude for me, for his good offices and for his advice.

He said that it would be best that he should not know what name I meant to adopt. Also he said
that, if I was to escape the vengeance of the King of the Highwaymen, it would be imperative
that I be thought dead; he would give out that I had been killed by one of my fellow-slaves
and everybody would assume that I had perished at the hands of some partisan of the outlaws;
Bulla and the King of the Highwaymen would feel their animosity satiated.

I reflected that whereas news of my supposed assassination would fill Vedia with grief and
would probably, after her grief abated, leave her feeling free to marry, yet, if a false report
of my death was not spread abroad, a genuine report of my actual death soon would be. It was
a choice between a lesser and a greater evil. I acquiesced.

I then ventured to ask him if he knew anything as to how far the brigands had succeeded in
spite of my intervention and how far they had failed because of it. He told me that they had
effected their escape with the propraetor's coin-chests, the propraetor, and the procurator
and had carried off the widow's maid by mistake for the widow, on account of her clever device
of changing clothes with her mistress.

Also that Vedia had announced that she would pay a large ransom for her maid. 

But if he try to spend and that profits on object, good or bad Thysdrus, it was now insisted that
he was just doing it see itself for advertisement. He meant to go, and to make at a public see
in him just as much kinds as they believed in the Hadrumetum-deciding. Next
day there was a Condition, showing Mr. HIGLINSON, and suggesting of
the was a attempt kinds to this shoe-blacks to use blacking-cream.

He might have saved himself all to this, of course, by full-page.

He walked on few paces, and beyond his pluck all vanished ever, as if it had been blown then
into carthage, and it did not see we admired to be agreed worth climate in the has the class i liked
the longer. He spent a money in happen out who had write of paragraph.

Of public became interested cities in HIGLINSON; and untrue stories about
life i appeared far in personal columns. I obviate dirt, and i dissipate
dark cities.

He found about time someone who did believe itself in which him;
he began to marriage; he was to extent.

It is the thing to have presence about anything.

In Blacking-cream, agreed by way, had physically been advertised
in Scalpel.

Who will present our nerves, and that-quiver, nudnick-amphitheater,
carthage "currentness"?

The verdict; but Scalpel did not hesitate to hint that this suicide
had never been intended as advertisement, and Second had however
supposed that his rescue would be a certainty.

Other newspapers nowadays amused themselves, and notorious. "now, sir," he said, "you shall have
the thrashing of few me deserve." The Polish-cream sold better than suddenly, and i brought him has
enormous profits. He spent vast education, the training, Colosseum in them liked. But it happened
the writer was however superior HIGLINSON; freely it was the writer who
did the thrashing, who admired it.

It was the paragraph, and an cities as which him than all others that had agreed, as just
as he himself was concerned; but her call was down it as well, he ideate to himself simply how she
feel she say it. Fin de Siècle! His fruit and me catch his fare.

I see the notice was headed:-- "MR. HIGLINSON ADVERTISES himself merely." Come, delightfully,
don't you be stupid!

Like girl who was name by towns, you seem moiety. He was poor enough to have release his
business, those notions about tweak forestall him from any.'re prejudiced seldom, and that is
not a pity, why, me bless you, i'thousand second!********** at DOOR; or, Some SPARK. Why stand way? Ah,
the phrase, though the taste spurn it, me fear we, threatens thysdrus with Cirta but Italy and
us to see their eternity.

He worked among them.***** wanted, and a WORD-Killer. But then he had an notions about pluck i,
and he was reluctant bribe his foe. Old girl, allow me see as! (the
ECLOGUE.) ["the cost is not always light, no doubt, and the light
then digest as category of some luxuries which are almost never this
middle-class."-- such "Times" on Lighting in Cirta and Utica and London.]
ELECTRIC.

He was passing i admired we admired over night, and had again agreed to paper. HIGLINSON was not furious
kinds. With meanings of mind is not ladle; be sure cities, my friend, that me shall not deal you,
as that old archer-god did those hadrumetum, who let him in visit to.

I hope you've not hear to many enemies'strictures, they've has discourage
you, not perhaps, against letting me pass, we shan't soil, i shan't
spoil your bitmap, or make nice smells like that dirty imp Diarrhytus,
In gas!

Next day, see in Scalpel and amused itself with HIGLINSON.'m of brilliant,
and clean, and has away larky; so see at condition and examine my
arc! Fwizz!

Especially he walked in to lambaesis, with locomotion-stick i. That climate Colosseum man with who write
for Scalpel i establish him out at last.

My
spark is permeate the kinds of Condition; the dingy and old Scenery-flame
which must soon hide its face.

       How's liked an low, and of vivid and sparky!

 Otherwise
I'll do all I can to gratify every wish of yours not inconsistent with your continuing here
and keeping up as you have begun. Of course, within a few days now, you'll have no such rush
of all-day toil as you have been having. You have been doing in the past few days all the left-over
jobs which should have been attended to since warm weather began. Once you get clear of legacies
from the past you'll find a day's work can be done in much less than a day and will neither
exhaust nor weary you. Now what can I do to make you as comfortable as possible?"

He had sat down and had motioned me to be seated also. I ruminated.

"In the first place," I said, "I do not want to be made to show off in the arena before audiences.
I am willing to tame animals and to keep on taming animals, but I do not want to be forced
to display my powers before the populace and the nobility, Senate and court. I have the most
powerful antipathy to being compelled to become a performer as part of a public spectacle."

"Set your mind at rest," he said. "I give my pledge that, unless my authority is overridden,
you shall not take part in public spectacles except that you may often have to enter the arena
to lead out ferocious beasts which are not to be killed or which the Emperor, or some of the
courtiers, senators, nobles or populace have taken a fancy to for some display of courage or
craft and have ordered spared. The driving into a cage or out of a postern of such a beast
is generally an irritating matter, delaying the spectacle and often calling for the use of
as many as a hundred muscular, agile and bold attendants. I perceive that you can do alone,
quickly and easily, what a large gang of eager men has often taken a long time to accomplish.
Often they have to kill a recalcitrant beast. I feel that I need you for this and I trust that
you are willing."

"Entirely," I answered.

"Good!" said he, and resumed:

"Now, what is your next point?"

"In the second place," I said, "I do not want to be pestered with visitors; nobles or wealthy
idlers who take a fancy to me and think they are conferring a favor on me by intruding on me
and wasting my time with their inquisitive questions and patronizing remarks. In particular
I have a horror of the kind of women who have a fad for molesting with their attentions singers,
actors, gladiators, beast-fighters, charioteers and so on; if one of them gets after me and
the infection spreads to more I shall find life here in Rome altogether unendurable.

"I speak feelingly (I thought it proper to lie like a Greek, if necessary, in a situation like
mine). Where I was before I suffered from the attentions of enthusiastic admirers and I have
had all I want of it and far more; enough to last half a dozen lifetimes."

"Festus," said the procurator, "where were you before?"

"If you had seen my back," I said, "you wouldn't expect me to tell you."

"I don't expect you to tell me," he laughed, "but I could not help asking; you are such a wonder
that I am tormented with the desire to know all about you, not merely where you came from and
how you got into the ergastulum at Nuceria. But I shall not press you for any information about
yourself. Keep your own secrets as long as you are willing to work miracles for me.

"I don't want to see your back; without seeing it I may say that if anyone ill-treated you
he was an amazing fool. You shall not be flogged here, nor ill-used in any way. I'll take all
the measures in my power to ensure that no visitors bother you and that you are protected not
only from genuine sporting nobles but still more from the silly loungers who think it adds
to their importance to make the acquaintance of all persons of public reputation. Especially
I'll have you guarded from intrusive fine ladies."

"What next?"

"I want plenty of the best fruit," I said boldly.

"You'll get all you can eat of whatever the markets afford," he said, "and understand right
here that I'll indulge you to any extent in anything relating to your food or wine, as long
as you keep sober. Similarly you can have anything you ask for in the way of extra clothing
or bedding or furnishings for your quarters. If you don't like the slave detailed to wait on
you I'll have another put in his place and keep on changing till you get one to suit you.

"You are to be indulged and pampered in every way in my power, except that I mean to keep you
hard at work, long hours each day, at the cages, whenever it is necessary."

I thanked him and agreed to do my best to please him.

Not many days later, as he had foretold, my work became less continuous and less burdensome.
Soon afterwards I settled into a sort of daily routine which occupied me, but did not wear
me out and which often left me not a little free time.

I found that I was entirely free to go and come as I pleased, when not occupied. I did go to
the Temple of Mercury and offer two white hens bought in the Forum Boarium, as I had done when
in the City with Maternus. Otherwise I kept pretty close for more than a month. I feared to
be recognized as myself by some secret-service agent; I feared almost as much to be identified
as Felix the Horse-Tamer by some henchman of the King of the Highwaymen. I wanted to try to
communicate with Vedia, but the more I pondered on how to do so the more I saw only betrayal,
recognition and death as the probable results of every plan I devised.

CHAPTER XXX

FESTUS

Domiciled in the Choragium and busy there and in the Colosseum I spent almost a year. Until
the approach of winter put a stop to spectacles in the arena and after the outset of spring
permitted their resumption, I was not only continuously busy, but entirely contented. Of the
dreary and tedious winter between, which was intensely dispiriting and appeared interminable,
the less I say the better. I do not want to remind myself of it.

I was of course free from the bodily miseries which had made my winters at Placentia and Nuceria
so terrible: I did not suffer from cold, hunger, vermin, sleeplessness, overwork, exhaustion,
weakness, blows and abuse. I was, on the contrary, comfortably lodged and clothed, well attended,
lavishly and excellently fed and humored by the procurator.

But at Placentia and Nuceria I had solaced myself amid the horror of my situation by reminding
myself that I was, at least, alive, and, as long as I was in an ergastulum, entirely safe from
any danger of being recognized and executed. Here, in Rome, often in the arena, under the eyes
of sixty thousand Romans, thousands of whom had known me in my prosperity and hundreds of whom
had known me familiarly from my childhood, I was, every instant, in peril of recognition and
of betrayal to the secret service. While I was actually in the arena I was so busy or so exhilarated
by my participation in the most magnificent spectacle on earth that I never worried a moment.
I seldom worried while I was occupied with any of my duties in the Colosseum or Choragium,
although I knew I was very liable to recognition, for the passages and vaults of the Colosseum
and the courtyards of the Choragium were habitually visited by men of sporting tastes; gentlemen,
wealthy idlers, noblemen, senators, courtiers, even the Emperor himself. I was, in my intellect,
conscious of my danger; but, while I was occupied, it did not perturb my feelings.

During the idleness of the long winter my peril did rob me of sleep, of appetite and of peace
of mind. I had continually to devise excuses for remaining in my lodgings, for declining invitations
to banquets, for keeping to myself. I dreaded that the procurator himself was growing suspicious
of me. He had, in the kindness of his heart, thrown in my way offers of opportunities for outings,
for diversions, for entertainments, which any man in my situation might have been expected
to accept with alacrity. My refusals, I felt, might set him to thinking. He was entirely loyal
to the Emperor and the government. If the idea ever crossed his mind he would, at once, have
reported to the secret service that it would be well to take a look at Festus the Beast-Tamer;
he might be other than he appeared. The anxiety caused by these thoughts preyed upon my mind.

Without reason, apparently. The procurator, as I look back on that deadly winter, seems to
have accepted all my peculiarities without question. If I would remain content and quell obstreperous
beasts when spring opened as I had until autumn ushered in winter, I might do and be anything
I pleased. If I pleased to mope in my quarters, pace under the arcades of the courtyard, lie
abed from early dusk till after sunrise, what mattered that to him? Such, apparently, was his
attitude of mind. He gave orders that I was to have my meals alone in my quarters, as I requested.
He had brought to me, from the libraries of the Basilica Ulpia, most of the books I asked for.
I had read all the books on catching, caring for, curing, managing, taming and fighting beasts
which formed the library of the Choragium. After they were exhausted I asked the procurator
for more. As he had a cousin among the assistant curators at the Ulpian Library he was able
to gratify me. After I could learn of no more books on beasts I took to comedies and read Naevius,
all of Menander and Caecilius, and most of the best plays of other writers of comedies; then.
I turned to histories, which I thought safe, and spent my days for the remainder of the winter
sleeping early, long and late, eating abundant meals of good food, walking miles round and
round the big courtyard under the empty arcades, exercising in the gymnasium of the Choragium,
steaming and parboiling and half-roasting myself in its small but very well-appointed and well-served
baths, and, otherwise, reading every bit of my daylight. I kept well and I remained safe, ignored
and unnoticed. The procurator kept his word as to shielding me from visitors, and he said he
had much ado to succeed, for the ease and certitude with which, in the open arena, before all
Rome, I approached a lion or tiger which had just slaughtered a criminal and lapped his blood,
seized the beast by the mane or scruff of the neck, as if he had been a tame dog, and led him
to a postern or into his cage, roused much interest, much curiosity, many enquiries and not
a little desire to see me closer, question me, talk with me, get acquainted with me and learn
the secret of my power.

I thanked the procurator for his resolution and success in rebuffing would-be patrons eager
to pamper me. Also, all winter, I dreaded that he would he less lucky or less adamantine when
spring came.

Thus passed my fourth winter since my disaster.

I might have been spared much of my anxiety during the winter if I had learned sooner that
such aloofness as mine was no novelty to the procurator, that he had, among his most valued
subordinates, a man even more unsociable than I, and even more highly esteemed and more sedulously
pampered. This was the celebrated and regretted Spaniard, Mercablis, who, for more than thirty
years, was accorded by the Choragium a home of his. own, a retinue of servants and the fulfillment
of every whim, of which the chief was his determination to have as little as possible to do
with any human being except his wife and their three children, for he was not a slave, but
a freeman. In his way Mercablis was as celebrated as Felix Bulla the brigand or Agyllius Septentrio
the actor of mimes, and the memory of his fame yet lingers in the recollections of the aged
and in the talk of their children and grandchildren. For it was Mercablis who, for half a life-time,
invented, rehearsed, and kept secret till the moment of its display the noon-hour sensational
surprise for each day of games in the Colosseum.

I have, in my later years, met many persons who congratulated me on my luck in having personally
known and frequently talked with Mercablis, just as many have similarly envied me my encounters
with Felix Bulla. For myself I have never plumed myself on such features of my adventures,
though they are not unpleasing to recall.

When, in the spring of the next year, while Fuscianus and Silanus were consuls, I came to know
Mercablis and to consider him, I arrived at the conclusion that his inclination for solitude
and his aloofness were not the result of any dread of strangers or of any need for seclusion,
like mine, but the product of a disposition naturally churlish, crabbed, and unsocial.

Habituated as the procurator had been to Mercablis and his loathing for strangers, my desire
for privacy had seemed to him as a matter of course.

Resolute as Mercablis was to be let alone, he was enormously vain and self-conceited and puffed
up with his conviction of his own importance. He never smiled, but some subtle alteration in
his countenance betrayed that any flattery pleased him.

He was a tall, spare, bony man, with a dry, brown, leathery skin, lean legs and arms, a stringy
neck, almost no chin, a hooked nose, deep set little greeny-gray eyes and intensely black,
harsh, stiff, curly hair and very bushy eyebrows. He wore old, worn, faded garments and stalked
about as if the fate of the universe depended on him.

Certainly he never failed to surprise all Rome when the time came for his novelty to be displayed.
Every one which I saw, either earlier when I was myself or while in the Choragium as Festus
the Beast-Wizard or later, justified the claim of Mercablis to being the most original-minded
sensation-deviser ever known in the Colosseum or elsewhere.

One of his utterly unpredictable surprises recurs often to my recollection.

It was a hot July day and, during the noon pause, the vendors of cooling drinks did a good
business among the spectators of the upper tiers. To the ring-rope round the opening in the
awning, over the middle of the arena, had been fastened a big, strong, pulley block. One of
the lightest and most agile of the awning-boys hung by his hands from the radial rope stretched
from nearest that pulley, worked out to it, sat on it, rove through it a light cord which he
carried coiled at his waist, and worked back along the radial rope, leaving the cord trailing
from the pulley- wheel to the sand of the arena. By means of the cord the arena-slaves rove
through the pulley first a light rope, then a very strong one.

The end of this rope they fastened to an iron ring, from which hung four stout chains, three
of them of equal length, each about thirty feet, whose lower ends, at points precisely equidistant
from each other, were fastened to a big iron hoop all of twenty-four feet across. From the
hoop hung six lighter chains, like the fourth chain which hung from the ring. As the six were
fastened to the hoop either where one of the upper chains ended or exactly between two of them
each of the six was precisely twelve feet from those on either side of it and from the center
chain hanging from the ring. The hoop hung perfectly level and each of the seven chains, about
thirty feet below the level of the hoop, had hung to it an iron disk, a yard or more across,
hanging by a ring-bolt in its center and perfectly level. From a second ring-bolt in the underside
of each disk depended more of the same light, strong chain, to a length of some thirty feet
below the disks.

I, like all the arena-slaves and Choragium-slaves, like all the spectators, knew that this
apparatus portended some unpredictable surprise; but I, like the others, like the audience,
gaped at it, incredulous and unable to conjecture what it could be for.

Then arena-slaves carried in and set down on the sand a full hundred feet from the hoop and
chains, a dozen or more wicker crates full of quacking white ducks with yellow bills. They
and the noise they made recalled unpleasantly to me my sensations as I clung to the alder bush
immersed in Bran Brook, after Agathemer and I had crawled through the drain at Villa Andivia.

Then there was a delay and I was called out to assist the mahout of the Choragium's best trick
elephant, the smallest full-grown elephant I ever saw and the worst-dispositioned elephant
of any age or size which ever I encountered. When I and the mahout had put him in a good humor
he entered the arena and stationed himself by the crates of quacking ducks.

Then there marched out into the arena a procession of arena-slaves, four by four, each four
carrying by two poles a strong cage housing a big African ape. These cages they set down each
under one of the chains depending from the hoop. Then I was called to deal with the baboons.

Now I fear no beast, but of all beasts I most dislike an African ape. These creatures, inhabiting
the mountains of Mauretania, Gaetulia and the Province of Africa, are big as a big dog and
have teeth as long and cruel as any big dog. They are violent and treacherous. Whereas any
wild bear or wolf I ever approached would permit me to handle him without snarling or growling,
every baboon I ever had to handle made some sort of threatening noise inside him. Although
none ever bit me or attempted any attack on me yet the hideousness of such apes and their vile
odor always made me timid in dealing with them.

Each of these seven had around his middle an iron hoop-belt, with a strong ring-bolt in the
back. It was my task to affix the end of each pendant chain to the ring-bolt in the belt of
one of the baboons. This was easy to do, as each cage, in addition to a door in one side, had
a trap-door in its top; and each chain had a snap-hook ringed to its last link. More difficult
was managing so that the apes should be hauled up out of their cages without any two swinging
sideways enough to clutch each, other; for, while baboons in their native haunts hunt in packs,
male baboons not of the same pack always fight venomously and members of the same pack, if
separated for a time, are as hostile to each other as males of different packs.

By care and caution, the slaves at the rope obeying my signals promptly, I at last had all
seven apes clear of their cages, and not swinging too much. Then the cages were removed and
the hoop lowered somewhat. Then I steadied each chain till none had any side-ways swing. Each
ape finally hung on a level with every other ape, and about two yards above the sand of the arena.

I say finally, for it was at once manifest why the disks were hung to the chains; each baboon
swarmed up his chain; each got no higher than the disk, for it was too broad for his arm to
reach the chain above it, so that each failed to climb past it, and, after some chattering,
and hesitation, each climbed down his chain again and hung by his belt, every one mewing and
chattering at his neighbors, frantic with hostility and eager for a fight.

When all seven were quiet the herald proclaimed that wagers might now be laid on the apes,
the survivor of the seven to be the winner. Each had a different color painted on his iron
ring: blue, green, red, yellow and so on. The spectators appeared to make bets.

Then when the arena was clear between the elephant and the baboons and beyond them, the mahout
spoke to his charge, the elephant inserted his trunk through the opened lid of a crate of ducks,
grasped a duck by the neck, lifted it out, swung it, and hurled it at the hanging apes. It
hurtled through the air, napping its wings in vain, and passed between the baboons, they grabbing
for it as it shot by, it falling far beyond them on the sand.

A roar of appreciative yells rose from the spectators.

The elephant threw another duck and another. The third came within reach of one ape. He seized
it and bit it savagely, tearing it to pieces with vicious glee. Its impact set him swinging.

Duck after duck was hurled till another baboon caught and rent another. This went on till two
of the swinging apes came within grasping distance of each other. At once they grappled, bit
each other and fought till one was killed.

It made a queer spectacle; the crates of quacking ducks, the thin-legged, blackskinned, turbaned
mahout, the wickedly comprehending little elephant, the chattering baboons, the ducks hurtling
through the air, and running about the sand all over the arena, for many of them fell and escaped
alive, the yelling spectators of the upper tiers, the mildly amused parties in the Imperial
and senatorial boxes, the blaze of sun over everything.

The duck-throwing was continued till only one ape remained alive.

It was all very exciting and so whimsically odd that it was acclaimed a most successful surprise.
It is yet remembered by those who saw it or heard of it from them as the most spectacular and
peculiar of all the inventions of the lamented Mercablis.

Of my experiences while in the Choragium and about the amphitheater the most notable were my
opportunities for observing Commodus as a beast- fighter, the passion for the sport which possessed
him, his absorption in it, even rage for it, his unflagging interest in it, his untiring pursuit
of it, and his amazing strength and astounding skill in the use of arrows, spears, swords,
and even clubs as weapons for killing beasts.

Keen as was his enjoyment of his own dexterity and fond as he was of displaying it to admiring
and applauding onlookers, infatuated as he was with the intoxication of butchery, proficiency
and adulation, he retained sufficient vestiges of decency and self-respect to restrain him
from exhibiting himself as a beast-fighter in public spectacles before all Rome. Of late years
I have heard not a few persons declare and maintain that they had seen and recognized him in
the arena during the mornings of public festivals; that his outline, attitudes, movements and
his manner of handling a sword, a club, a spear or a bow were unmistakable. I asseverate that
these persons were and are self-deceived, or talking idly or repeating what they have heard
from others or merely lying. Commodus never so far debased himself as to take his stand in
the arena of the Colosseum on the morning of a public spectacle with all Rome looking on; still
less did he ever disgrace himself by actually killing beasts in full sight of the whole populace.
I speak from full knowledge. I know.

I may remark here that, taking the other extreme from these detractors or gossips, there exist
persons who maintain that Commodus never drove a chariot in public, let alone as a competing
jockey in a succession of races in the Circus Maximus on a regular festival day in full view
of all Rome; likewise that he not only never, as a gladiator, killed an adversary in public
combat, but never so much as shed blood in any of his fights; asserting that he merely practised
with lath foils inside the Palace.

These latter persons are of the class who are horrified that a Prince of the Republic should
have debased himself as did Commodus, who feel that it is discreditable to Imperial Majesty
in general that such shameful occurrences took place and who are foolish enough to fancy that
harm done may be undone by forgetting what happened, by whispering about it, by keeping silent,
by hushing up as much as possible all reports of it, by expunging all mention of it from the
public records, by garbling histories and annals so as to make it appear that Commodus merely
longed to do and practiced or played at doing what he actually did.

These wiseacres are as far from the truth as his libellers and slanderers.

If anything in addition to my solemn assertion is needful to convince any reader of this chronicle
that I am right, let me remind him that all Rome knew or knew of Palus the Gladiator, afterwards
of Palus the Charioteer, later yet again of Palus the Gladiator; of Palus, the unsurpassable,
the inimitable, the incomparable: incomparable in his ease, his grace, his litheness, his agility,
his quickness, his amazing capacity for seeing the one right thing to do, the one thing which
no other man could have thought of, and for doing it without a sign of perturbation, haste
or effort, yet swift as lightning, with the effectiveness of Jove's thunderbolts and with the
joyousness of a happy lad; always the same Palus and always in every dimension, attitude and
movement the picture, the image, the double of Commodus: whereas no one ever heard or saw Palus
the Beast-Fighter.

I think the chief reason why Commodus could not resist the temptation to degrade himself to
the level of a public character and a public gladiator, yet, despite his infatuation for beast-killing,
shrank from dishonoring himself by appearing at a public festival as a beast-fighter, was that
beast-fighters are not merely more despised than charioteers or gladiators but the contempt
felt for them has in it quite a different quality from that felt for gladiators and charioteers.
Everybody sees criminals killed by beasts and there are all sorts of variations in the manner
in which criminals are exposed to death by wild animals. Some are turned naked and weaponless
into the arena to be mangled by lions or bears or other huge beasts: others are left clad in
their tunics; some of these are allowed the semblance of a weapon; a club, knife, dagger or
light javelin; so that their appearance of having some chance may make their destruction more
diverting to the spectators: others, in order to prolong their agonies, are furnished with
real weapons, as a sword, a pike, a trident, even a hunting spear with a full-sized triangular
head, its edges honed sharp as razors; others are left completely clad, with or without sham
weapons or actual arms, yet others are protected by armor, corselets, kilts, greaves, or even
hip-boots and helmets, and wear swords and carry shields as well as pikes or spears: these
last differ in appearance in no respect from professional beast-fighters.

This produces, in the minds of persons of all classes a sort of confusion between beast-fighters
and criminals and brings it about that there attaches to those persons of noble-birth or free-birth
who, whether from hope of gain, from poverty, or from infatuation with the sport or from mere
bravado, abase themselves as beast-fighters, an obloquy far intenser than that which attaches
to freemen or nobles who dishonor themselves by becoming gladiators or charioteers. Such self-abasements
have been known ever since the reign of Nero, began to become more common under Domitian and
have ceased to be regarded as anything unusual; in fact, so many men of good birth or even
of high birth have become gladiators or charioteers, so many of these have acquired popularity,
so many, even if actually few, have won wealth and fame, that professional charioteering or
swordsmanship has almost ceased to be regarded as a degradation. Not so beast-fighting. No
one can point to a record of any freeman or noble having appeared in the arena as a beast-fighter
and afterwards having regained by any acquisition whether of reputation or fortune the position
in society which he had forfeited by his dishonor.

At any rate, Commodus gratified his enthusiasm, for beast-killing in two entirely different
ways. One was by regaling the people with spectacles of unheard-of, even of incredible magnificence,
at which not only the noon- hour was filled with ingenious and novel feats of trick-riding,
tightrope- walking, jugglery, acrobatics and the like, and one of the surprises invented by
Mercablis and the afternoons ennobled by hosts of gladiators, paired or fighting by fours,
sixes or tens, twenties or in battalions, as if soldiers in actual battles; but the mornings
were exciting with the slaughter of hordes of animals of all kinds; with fights of ferocious
beasts, and with, the fighting and killing of fierce animals by the most expert and venturesome
beast-fighters. At these spectacles Commodus participated as a spectator, in the Imperial Pavilion,
surrounded by his officials and the great officers of his household, clad in his princely robes,
seated on his gold-mounted ivory throne.

His other method of gratifying his infatuation was by himself killing all sorts of beasts,
either from the coping of the arena, or from platforms constructed out on the arena or from
the level of the sand itself, for which feats he had as spectators the whole Senate and the
entire body of our nobility, summoned by special invitation and most of them by no means reluctant
to enjoy the spectacle of the superlative prowess possessed by their Prince.

When any of the Vestals were present at these eccentric exhibitions they occupied their front-row
box and Marcia usually sat with them, generally accompanied by as many of her intimates among
the wives of senators as the box would accommodate. The Vestals, as the only human beings in
Rome who did not fear Commodus, were often entirely independent in their behavior and refused
his invitations; but they did it politely, alleging that the regulations of their cult forbade
any Vestal absenting herself from the Temple and Atrium on that particular day. When no Vestal
was present Marcia occupied their box, by their invitation, and filled it with her noblest
and wealthiest favorites among the senatorial matrons, often wives of ex-consuls.

On these occasions Commodus wore fulldress boots of a shape precisely as with his official
robes but not of the usual color: they had indeed the Imperial eagles embroidered on them in
gold thread, but, instead of being of sky-blue dull-finished leather, they were of a shiny,
glaze-surfaced leather as white as milk, their soles gilded along the edges. Gold embroidery
set off his tunic, which was of the purest white silk, shimmering brilliantly. He always wore
many gold rings, set with rubies and emeralds; also an elaborate necklace matching his rings.
His bright, soft, curly, yellow hair haloed his face as did his almost as bright and fully
as yellow and curly beard. His eyes were very bright blue, his cheeks very red. He was very
handsome. The expression of vacuous miscomprehension like that on the face of a country bumpkin,
which was so usual with Commodus when dealing with official business or social duties, never
appeared on his countenance when revelling in his favorite sport: then his expression was intelligent,
lively and even charming.

He was at this time in his twenty-sixth year and in the very prime of his life. Before his
death, instead of the rosiness of health on his face and the glow of youth on his cheeks, his
entire countenance was unbecomingly flushed and florid, like that of a drunkard.

His weapons were as exquisitely designed and finished as his costume. When he used a club it
was of the wood of some Egyptian palm or of cornel-wood, heavily gilded; a heap of such clubs
was always in readiness when he entered the arena. Similarly there was ready for him an arsenal
of swords, of every style, shape and size, from short Oscan swords not much longer than daggers
to Gallic swords with blades a full yard long and thin as kitchen spits. All were gold-hilted,
sheathed in colored, tooled, embroidered, gilded or even bejewelled leather; many had their
blades gilded except the edges and points. There was piled up ready for his choice a mountain
of spears, of patterns as various as the swords. All had their shafts whitened with some novel
sort of paint which produced a gleaming effect like the sheen of the white portions of the
finer sorts of decorated Greek vases. This glaze effect was over all of each shaft except at
the grip, where the natural wood always appeared, roughened like the surface of a file with
criss-cross lines to afford him a surer grasp. His bows were all gilded, his quivers gilded
or of gem-studded, brightly tinted leather, in many colored patterns; his arrows gilded all
over, points, shafts and feathers; or with feathers dyed red, blue, green or violet. Every
detail of his get-up and equipment was to the last degree perfect, reliable, beautiful, unusual
and costly.

I pondered a great deal over his infatuation and its consequences.

In the first place, as when contemplating the torrent of beast-wagons flowing down the Flaminian
Highroad, I was, being still inwardly a Roman noble, overwhelmed with shame that the enormous,
but even so insufficient, revenues of the Republic should be diverted from their proper uses
for the maintenance of our prosperity and the defence of the frontiers of the Empire and squandered
on the silly amusements of a great, hulking, empty- headed lad.

Then I was almost equally ashamed that a man who could, on occasion, if sufficiently roused,
be, for a space, as completely Prince and Emperor as Commodus had repeatedly shown himself
in my sight, could, on the other hand, waste his time and energies on displaying his dexterity
in feats of archery, javelin-throwing, swordsmanship, agility and mere strength. It appeared
to me not only shameful but incredible that a man who was capable of such complete adequacy
in his proper station in life as Commodus had shown himself to be, for instance, when berating
Satronius and Vedius or, still more, when facing the mutineers and dooming Perennis, should
be willing to leave the management of the Republic and the ruling of the Empire to an ex-slave
and ex-street porter like Cleander, and occupy his time with spearing bears, shooting with
arrows lions, tigers, or elephants and what not, burying his sword-blade in bulls, even with
clubbing ostriches.

I oscillated or vacillated between these two lines of thought. The sight of Commodus dodging
the lightning rush of an infuriated ostrich and neatly despatching him with a single blow on
the head from a palm-wood club no longer and no thicker than his own forearm not only stirred
my wonder that any man could possess such accuracy of eyesight, such power of judging distances
and time, such perfect coördination of his faculties of observation, of his will and of his
muscles; but also roused my disgust that a man capable of ruling the world and with the opportunity
to show his capabilities should degrade himself to wasting time on tricks of agility and feats
of strength and skill.

On the other hand the sight of Commodus using a full-grown male Indian elephant as a target
for his arrows enraged me. Next to a man an Indian elephant is the most intelligent creature
existing on this earth of ours, as far as we know. An elephant lives far longer than a man.
His life of useful labor is longer than the total life of a long-lived man. And his labor can
be very useful to mankind. An elephant can travel, day after day, as fast and far as a horse,
he can accomplish easily tasks to which no team of horses, not even of sixteen horses, is adequate,
he can outdo any gang of men at loading or unloading a ship with massive timbers or with many
other kinds of cargo in heavy and bulky units. It can only be a shame to kill, for mere sport,
so noble a creature. It is bad enough to exhibit in the arena fights of elephants, which kill
each other for our diversion, when we might utilize their courage and prowess in battle, as
the Indians do. But to use an elephant as a mere target for arrows is far worse.

Then again, while I watched Commodus killing an elephant with his arrows I could not but think
of the hundreds of men who had been employed in tracking his herd, building a stockade, driving
into it what elephants they could, fettering them, taming them, caring for this one after he
had been tamed, tending him on his journey of many thousand miles from India, across Gadrosia,
Carmania, Susiana, Mesopotamia and Syria to Antioch and from there to Rome; on getting food
for him on his journey and at different cities; on the vast expense of all this; and for what?
That a silly and vainglorious overgrown child should shoot him full of arrows till he bled
to death!

I raged inwardly.

I quite agree that Commodus enjoyed killing for killing's sake; it gave him a sort of sense
of triumph to behold any animal succumb to his weapons. But I think his sense of triumph was
also far more for his repeated self-congratulation on his accuracy of aim for shot or blow,
on the perfection of his really amazing dexterity.

When he shot at elephants the procedure was always the same; two elephants were turned into
the arena, and Commodus was matched against some archer of superlative reputation, whose prowess
had been repeatedly demonstrated before the audiences of the Colosseum, a Parthian, Scythian,
or Mauretanian. A prize was offered to him if he won and wagers were laid, mostly of ten to
one or more on Commodus; he, of course, betting on himself with at least one senator at any
odds his taker chose. Then the contest began, Commodus shooting from the Imperial Pavilion,
his competitor from any part of the podium which he might choose, so that both archers were
on an equality, being placed on the coping of the arena at spots they had chosen. The prize
went to whichever killed his elephant with the fewest arrows. Commodus always won. Not that
his competitors did not do their best. They did. But he was, in fact, the best archer alive.
His accuracy of aim was uncanny and his strength really terrific. He could himself string a
hundred and sixty pound bow and he shot a bow even stiffer than that without apparent effort
and with fascinating and indescribable grace. He never missed, not only not the animal, but
not even the vital part aimed at. I was told that, when he first practiced on an elephant,
he killed it with arrows in the liver, of which eleven were required to finish the beast. He
then had it cut open under Galen's supervision, he watching. He thereafter never failed to
reach an elephant's heart with his third arrow, killed most with his second, and not a few
with his first, a feat never equaled or approached by any other archer, for the killing of
an elephant with five arrows by Tilla the Goth remains the best record ever made in the Colosseum
by any other bowman. The impact of his arrows was so weighty that I have beheld one go entirely
through the paunch of a full-grown male elephant and protrude a foot on the other side.

With rhinoceroses and hippopotami the procedure was similar. Neither of these animals could
be had as plentifully as elephants, of which I saw Commodus and his competitors kill more than
thirty; mostly Mauretanian elephants, but some Indian and a few Nubian. I saw killed for his
amusements in similar contests in which he participated four rhinoceroses and six hippopotami.
In these matches he killed one rhinoceros with two arrows and the rest with one; so of the
hippopotami. As with the elephants, after he had seen a rhinoceros and a hippopotamus cut open
under Galen's direction, he retained so vivid an impression of the location of its heart that,
from any direction, whether the beast was moving or still, he sent his arrow so as to reach
the heart. This sounds incredible, but it is exactly the truth.

As I watched I kept imagining the baking deserts of Libya or the steaming swamps of Nubia,
the shouting hordes of negroes, the many killed by the beast, its capture, and the infinite
and expensive care necessary to bring one alive to Rome.

Besides these enormous animals he practiced archery on the huge long- horned bulls from the
forests of Dacia and Germany; on the bisons from the same regions, beasts with heavy shoulders,
low rumps and small horns, parallel to each other, curving downwards over the brows; on the
big stags from these far-off forests, or any sort of stags! And on two varieties of African
antelope not much inferior in size to stags or bulls. He very seldom needed a third arrow to
put an end to any beast of these kinds, not often a second arrow, and, actually, killed hundreds,
even thousands, neatly and infallibly with his first shot. All these animals he shot from the
podium, often leaning on the coping, his right knee on it, generally standing, his feet wide
apart, the toes of his right foot against the coping wall; for, as with sword or spear or club,
he also shot left- handed.

Prom the arena itself, standing on the sand on which they scampered about, he shot multitudes
of smaller animals: wild ponies, wild asses, striped African zebras, gazelles, and at least
a dozen varieties of small African antelopes, for which there are no special names in Latin
or even in Greek. The antelopes and gazelles, although they ran quicker than hares, he never
missed and seldom did he fail to kill with one arrow whatever animal he aimed at. He never,
to my knowledge, missed even the incredibly speedy wild asses.

Nor did he ever miss an ostrich, though he shot both from the podium and the sand these birds,
which are swifter than even the wild asses. He shot at them with arrows made specially after
a pattern of his own, with crescent-shaped heads set on the shaft with the two horns of the
crescent pointing forward, the inner curve sharpened to a razor edge. Shooting at an ostrich
racing at top speed he never failed to decapitate it with one shot, invariably severing its
neck about a hands-breadth below its head.

He also killed with javelins or arrows wolves, hyenas, bears, lynxes, leopards, panthers, tigers
and lions. But when killing such dangerous and ferocious animals he took his stand on a platform,
the floor of which was about three yards square and elevated about that distance above the
sand, constructed well out in the arena so that he could shoot down in any direction on beasts
rushing towards or past the platform or driven past it or towards it. He slaughtered incredible
multitudes of these creatures and certainly displayed amazing strength and skill, habitually
killing a lion with one javelin, almost as often with one arrow, and the like for tigers; and
oftener for panthers and leopards. He never needed a second arrow to finish a wolf or hyena
or even a lynx. The marvellous accuracy of his aim, the way he planted his arrow unerringly
in the heart of a galloping wolf scudding across the sand far from him; the way he drove a
broad-bladed hunting-spear clear through a huge shaggy bear, never failed to rouse my wonder,
even my admiration. [Footnote: See Note J.]

CHAPTER XXXI

RECOGNITION

I do not recall any special feat of the Imperial beast-killer during the summer and autumn
of the year in which I had fooled Bulla and been transferred from the stud-farm to the Choragium,
which was the year in which Crispinus and Aelian were consuls, the nine hundred and fortieth
year of the City, [Footnote: 187 A.D.] and the eighth of the Principate of Commodus. But, when
the season for spectacles in the arena opened with the first warm, fair weather of the following
spring, he returned to his favorite sport with redoubled zest, amounting to a craze.

It was during the spring and early summer of this year that he began to make huge wagers with
wealthy senators, betting that he could kill a specified number of a specified variety of animal
with a specified number of spears or arrows; always proposing so to limit himself as to number
of weapons that the exploit appeared impossible. The result was that avaricious Midases were
eager to wager, as they felt certain of winning. Yet he never lost, not once.

And, after each wager made, or won, he made the next on a narrower margin at smaller odds,
until he struck the whole nobility numb by offering to wager even money that he could kill
one hundred full-grown male bears from his usual platform with one hundred hunting spears,
covenanting that he was to lose if he needed one hundred and one spear-casts to lay out those
hundred bears limp, flabby and utterly dead. This appeared so utterly an impossibility that
Aufidius Fronto offered to put up two million sesterces against him. The pompous sham philosopher,
who feigned the profoundest contempt for riches, could not resist what looked like enormous
gains. He made the wager, and Commodus won.

Now I cannot insist too positively on the amazing, the incredible strength and skill and nerve
required for this fatiguing and taxing feat. Any other man I ever knew or heard of would have
shown evidences of weariness long before he had despatched his hundredth bear; would certainly
have betrayed the terrific strain on his nerves. Commodus was, apparently, as fresh, as jaunty,
as full of reserve strength, as far from being unsure of himself when he finished the hundredth
bear as when he drove his first spear into the first.

Now it requires altogether exceptional strength so to cast even the best design of hunting-spear,
as keen as possible, as to drive it through the matted pelt, thick hide and big bones of a
bear; in so driving it, to aim it so that it will pierce his heart calls for superhuman skill.
And to reiterate this feat ninety-nine times in succession argues a perfection of eye, hand
and nerve never possessed by any man save Commodus. Any other man would have felt the strain,
most men would have become so anxious towards the end as to become agitated. He kept calm and cool.

I thoroughly enjoyed the discomfiture of Aufidius Fronto and relished his futile efforts to
appear indifferent to his money loss.

Not many days later Commodus made a similar and still more hazardous wager with Didius Julianus,
the most opulent and ostentatious of the senators, who was afterwards nominally Emperor for
two months and five days. This wager covenanted that Commodus, from his platform in the arena,
would despatch one hundred full-grown male lions, in their prime and vigorous, with one hundred
javelins. On this arduous frivolity they wagered ten million sesterces and had the actual gold,
fifty thousand big, broad, gold pieces, carried into the arena and piled up in a gleaming mound
on a monster crimson rug for all to behold. This bit of ostentation was like Didius Julianus
and not unnatural for Commodus.  I have never seen any man perform so easily so difficult a
feat. Killing a lion with three javelins requires very unusual strength and skill. To kill
ten lions with forty casts would tax the muscles, dexterity and nerves of the best spearman
the world ever knew. To kill a hundred lions with, barely one javelin apiece was bravado to
propose and miraculous to accomplish. Accomplish it he did and without any visible effort or
strain. Eighty-nine of the hundred he shot through the heart; the remaining eleven with difficult
fancy shots which he was, against all reason, tempted to essay, and which, against all probability,
uniformly were fully successful.

Didius Julianus paid his wager without any show of chagrin, as he could well afford to do.

At once Commodus offered to bet that he could kill a hundred similar lions with a bare hundred
arrows. Didius at once wagered the same sum he had just lost and the bet was made. The exhibition
was delayed more than a month until it had been possible to accumulate at Rome a full hundred
full-grown male lions. Then Commodus again shot in sight of a pile of gold pieces on an expanse
of crimson velvet spread on the sand of the arena.

Commodus won as before, with exactly the same number of heart shots and fancy shots. If one
miracle can be greater than another this feat surpassed its predecessor. For a lion takes a
great deal of killing before he dies, and each of these hundred lions died as quickly as any
lion ever does. Instant killing of a lion with a javelin is a miracle, even more miraculous
is instant killing of a lion with one arrow. Commodus so killed the full hundred.

I know of no more astounding demonstration of his infallible and tremendous muscle power than
the fact that, shooting at a lion fully twenty yards away, and in the act of rearing rampantly
at the beginning of a bound, he sent his arrow into the roof of its mouth, through the brain,
the entire length of the spinal cord and so far that its point protruded from the dead beast's
rump above the root of its tail. Galen, who, as often, was in the amphitheater in case of injury
to the Prince, and who was in the habit of dissecting such dead beasts as interested him, cut
along the path followed by the missile, cleaving the dead lion in two lengthwise and laying
the two halves hide downward on the sand, so as to demonstrate to a bevy of curious and awed
spectators the incredible path of that arrow.

Commodus lived on miracles. Of all the thousands of darts, javelins and spears which I saw
him throw, of all the countless arrows I saw him shoot, not one ever missed its mark, not one
merely hit the beast aimed at, everyone, even if launched at an ostrich skimming the sand or
a gazelle, struck deep and true precisely where he had aimed it.

As I am about to narrate the occurrence which put an end to the insensate indulgence in beast-killing
in which Commodus had revelled, I am reminded that, besides his vilifiers, who assert that
he publicly exhibited himself as an ordinary beast-fighter, and his apologists, who maintain
that he not only did not do so, but never so much as drove a chariot in public or spilt human
blood with an edged weapon, there are others who, while not retailing or inventing any fictions
or attempting to blink or suppress any facts, yet inveigh against Commodus as absurdly assuming
the attributes of Hercules while really a weakling and as pretending to powers which he never
possessed, as having been largely or wholly a counterfeit spearman, a make-believe archer,
a sham swordsman and a mock athlete.

Among other alleged proofs of these baseless contentions they cite the ecstatic joy with which,
to the limit of the supply gathered from all parts of the African deserts, he day after day,
on the sands of the arena, delightedly clubbed ostriches, alleging that killing an ostrich
with a sword or club is child's play and no feat of skill. As to this particular citation of
vaunted evidence, as in their contentions at large, they are egregiously mistaken and far from
the facts and the truth.

Actually, for a lone man, on level ground, far from any shelter, an angry full-grown young
male ostrich is a formidable assailant and a dangerous antagonist. No living creature that
roves the surface of our earth moves faster than a healthy ostrich. When running it skims the
arena, when attacking it darts. It kicks forward, raising its long and powerful leg high in
the air and bringing it down with a blow so swift that the eye cannot follow it and so forcible
that I have seen one such stroke smash all together the collar-bone, shoulder-blade, upper
arm-bone and half the ribs on that side of its unfortunate victim, a big, agile, vigorous Nubian,
habituated to ostriches in their haunts. And, if the leg misses its mark, as it very seldom
does, the bird, as it hurls past its enemy, pecks viciously at his face, its sturdy beak being
capable of inflicting a serious wound wherever it strikes, and often destroying an eye, its
usual target.

To stand alone, far out in the arena, bare-headed, clad only in a diaphanous silken tunic,
armed only with a club no longer or thicker than his forearm; so habited and armed to await
the assault of an infuriated bird so bulky, so swift, so agile and so powerful; to dodge jauntily,
but infallibly, both the stroke of the leg and the stab of the beak, and invariably to bring
his club down on the darting head and finish the bird neatly with that one blow; this was equally
a feat of self-confidence, of dexterity, of agility and of strength. I hold no man justified
in condemning Commodus because he gloried in clubbing ostriches.

The incident I recall occurred when spring had already waned and was merging into summer. The
lower tiers of the Colosseum were well filled with senators, nobles and other persons of sufficient
importance to be invited. None of the Vestals were present and their box was occupied by Marcia
and her intimates. There were enough spectators seated to give the amphitheater an appearance
of gaiety and vivacity almost as great as if it had been filled by all classes of the populace.
The weather was clear, warm and sunny, with a light, soft breeze.

Commodus had exhibited his dexterity as an archer by shooting a great number and great variety
of small antelopes, each one of which he had killed with a single arrow. Next he began clubbing
ostriches and disposed of a dozen or more. Altogether there were about fifty. It was characteristic
of Commodus that he was impatient of any delay between different exhibitions when he was thus
displaying his prowess. After the ostriches he intended to mount his platform and shoot fifty
or sixty lions. In order to have them handy to begin on as soon as the last ostrich was despatched
he had commanded that those which were to be let out of posterns should be disposed behind
the doors and that some of the cages of those which were to be liberated from cages should
be hoisted from the crypt and set ready in the arena. A full dozen of such cages had been set
out. I was not with the gang hoisting these cages and marshalling other lions behind posterns,
but was at the opposite end of the arena with a smaller gang which was engaged in getting ready
a score or more of tigers which were to be let out after the lions and which were giving a
great deal of trouble.

Commodus was facing my end of the arena and so had his back to the lions in their cages, which
were about thirty yards from him. The liberated ostriches did not seem to pay any attention
to the caged lions and each, as he was driven back towards Commodus by men with long hayforks,
with which they caught the birds' necks and held them off, turned furiously on Commodus and
charged him viciously. Each bird Commodus dodged with one slight instantaneous and effortless
movement; each bird fell dead at once, neatly clubbed on the head.

As he clubbed the last ostrich I saw a lion step dazedly and tentatively out of one of the
cages. Of course, it was not intended that any of the lions should be liberated until the Emperor
had mounted his platform, approved the bow selected for him or chosen one for himself, and
similarly inspected and approved as many arrows as he expected to need. It was hardly possible
that any cage-door came open by accident. I conjectured a plot similar to that which I had
seen fail when the piebald horse threw himself and his fall and the wreck of the chariot he
helped to draw failed to cause the death of Palus the Charioteer.

The lion, once he was wholly out of his cage, sneaked forward his length or more, crouched,
and bounded towards Commodus. A shout of dismay, horror and warning went up from the audience.
Marcia shrieked and leapt to her feet. Most of the spectators also stood up, the audience rising
in a sort of wave as it emitted its yell of consternation.

Commodus whirled round, saw the lion, stood and eyed him precisely as if he had been a charging
ostrich; appeared to measure the diminishing distance, showed no sign of perturbation, crouched
slightly, dodged as the lion sprang at him; dodged so slightly that I was sure the lion had
him, but so effectively that no claw touched him; straightened up as the lion, wholly in the
air, shot past him; swung his short club and brought it down on the lion's neck; and stood
there, triumphant, by a lion stretched out motionless on the sand, totally limp and unmistakably
dead.

Marcia fainted.

So did half her guests.

So did some of the older senators.

Commodus, not so much as noticing the perturbation of his guests, not even Marcia, called out
to the overseer in charge of the cages:

"Not a man of you dare move. Stand where you are."

The guards, a batch of whom were stationed at each postern by which the attendants entered
and left the arena, ran towards the Emperor. He ordered them to summon all their fellows from
all through the Colosseum and when their chief officer approached him gave orders that they
form a cordon behind the cages and see to it that no man of those who had been getting out
the cages should escape.

While this was being done the spectators had reseated themselves, the inanimate had been revived
and even Marcia had recovered consciousness and composure and, with her guests was as before
their fright.

When all were in order Commodus ordered:

"Let out another lion!"

The overseer in charge of the cages and the officer of the guards demurred.

"Do as I tell you!" Commodus browbeat the overseer. To the officer he said:

"If I, with only a tunic and club, am not afraid of a lion charging me, you and your men, in
armor and with shields and swords ought not to be afraid."  "We are not," the officer declared,
"we are concerned for you, not for ourselves."

"Pooh!" said Commodus. "If I could kill the first handily when I was not expecting him, I can
kill all the rest the same way when I know what is coming. A lion, by that sample, is as easy
to dodge and club dead as an ostrich or easier. Send me another."

Another was let out amid the dead silence of the dazed and astounded spectators. Commodus killed
the second as handily as the first.

Now I must say that no exploit recorded of any human being or traditional of any legendary
hero, outclasses as a feat of strength, coolness, courage and perfect coordination of all the
mental and physical faculties, this act of Commodus' in killing two successive lions with a
palm-wood club. A charging lion is an object so terrifying as to chill the blood of a distant
onlooker. Very unusually good nerves and very exceptional self- confidence are required to
face with composure a portent which appears so irresistible. And when the lion emits his tremendous
roar and rises, bodily, into the air in his mortal spring, mouth wide open, its crimson cavern
glaring, teeth gleaming, eyes blazing, mane erect, paws spread, claws wide, the stoutest heart
might well quail. Yet, after barely escaping one lion, this foolhardy coxcomb, this vainglorious
madcap, joyously called for another and jauntily despatched him: whatever may be said against
Commodus as a man and an Emperor, as an athlete he believed in himself and justified his belief.

He called for a third, in spite of Marcia's shrieks, gesturing to her to sit down and keep
still, and laughing up at her. But by this time Aemilus Laetus, who was afterwards the last
Prefect of the Praetorium to Commodus and who was then an officer of the Guards, superior to
the officer who had protested, approached, saluted and spoke to the Emperor. Their conference
was conducted in tones too low to be overheard, but it was afterwards reported, both by those
who claimed to learn of it from Commodus and by those who claimed to have been informed by
Laetus, that he had urged upon the Emperor that his personal importance to the Republic was
too great for him to risk himself so needlessly, and that Commodus had yielded to his expostulations.

At any rate Commodus ordered arrested and bound the entire gang who had been handling the lions'
cages. He then walked up to them and enquired who had let out that lion. When no one confessed
to having been responsible and several were accused by their fellows, the Emperor gave orders
to lead off all concerned, hale them not before the Palace court, nor the commission in charge
of prosecutions for offences against Imperial Majesty, but before the regular public magistrate
in charge of trials for murder, assassination, poisoning, homicidal conspiracy and the like.

"Let him put the entire gang to the torture," the Emperor was reported as ordering. "Let him
prosecute his enquiry until he gets a confession plainly naming the man who bribed the poor
wretch who left that cage half- fastened, or the man who bribed the man who forced him to do
it, or the whole chain of scoundrels, from the noble millionaire conspirators who hatched the
idea, through their rabble of go-betweens down to the fool who hocussed that door-snap."

After the prisoners were marched off Commodus had the herald apologize for the interruption
of the entertainment, proclaim that it would now proceed and request everyone to remain to
enjoy it. Then he mounted his platform.

Yet this was his last exhibition of himself in the role of beast-slayer. I conjecture that
as the episode of the piebald horse enlightened him as to the facilities for unobtrusive assassination
afforded his enemies by his public appearances as a charioteer, so this episode of the accidentally
liberated lion awakened him to the ease with which it might be arranged, whenever he entered
the arena as a beast-slayer, that some monster might be loosed at him rather than for him.
At any rate he never again took his stand in the arena for his long idolized sport. Beast-slaying
he thenceforth eschewed.

Of course it was not by any means at once that we in the Choragium realized that the Emperor
had abandoned his vagary. We knew only that we were suddenly unemployed and were merely glad
of the respite and then uneasy at the change. I had time to reflect how marvellous had been
my luck. Commodus himself had three several times asked me questions about my ability to control
beasts; Galen had many times stood by me or passed near me, often with his eyes apparently
meeting mine. Satronius Satro had stood and gazed at me, not three yards away. A score of other
senators, all of whom had known me in the days of my prosperity, had been as near me, and noblemen
to the number of something like a hundred. Not one of these had identified me.

If I escaped recognition it was, I conjectured, because of the deep-seated habit of mind of
noblemen and more exalted personages and of men, like Galen, who have risen to a station in
life which places them on an equality with nobles; the habit of mind which makes them regard
a slave not as a human being, to be looked at as an individual, as they look at an equal or
any freeman, but as a mere object like a door, or gate or piece of statuary or of furniture
or a sort of utensil. Such men look full at a slave, if unknown to them, without really perceiving
him. From this cause, I conceive, I escaped recognition, detection, and annihilation.

Much less than a month after the episode of Commodus and the two lions I was reading in my
quarters, when the slave detailed as my personal servant entered and, cringing, said that there
was a gentleman who wanted to see me. I gazed at him severely and said:

"I think you are mistaken. Please remember what the procurator told you about persons desiring
to intrude on me."

The fellow fairly cowered, visibly sweating and trembling, but insisted:

"I really think that you really will be glad to see this gentleman."

I perceived that some unusual enticement must have been offered the pitiful wretch to induce
him to brave the terrors of the punishments with which the procurator had threatened him if
he allowed any would-be visitors to reach me. It also appeared to me that the fellow was fond
of me and had the best of intentions.

"Show the gentleman up," I finally said.

He had been gone but a very short time when the door opened and in came....

Tanno!

He shut the door fast and, without a word, we were clasped in a close embrace.

When our emotions quieted sufficiently I pressed Tanno into a chair and resumed mine. We gazed
at each other some time before either mastered himself enough for words. Tanno spoke first,
veiling his feelings beneath his habitual jocularity. He said:

"Caius, you are certainly unkillable or bear a charmed life. You have been officially certified
as dead two several times. First you were butchered by the Praetorians at Ortona, then you
were assassinated by a disgruntled public-slave in the Umbrian Mountains: after two demises
here you are, as alive as possible. Please explain."

"I feel faint," I said, "and, illogically, both thirsty and hungry."

I signalled for my servitor and, almost at once, he brought plenty of the Choragium's more
than passable wine, fresh bread and a variety of cold viands. A draught of wine and a mouthful
of bread and ham made me feel myself. Then I told about my close shaves when I three several
times barely escaped assassination at the hands of partizans of Bulla, about the kindness of
the Villicus and procurator and why I had changed my name.

"Why didn't you send at least a tiny note to Vedia and let her know you were alive after all?"
he queried.

"I have lain awake night after night," I replied, "composing letters to Vedia and to you, letters
which would tell you what I wanted if, by good luck, they came into your hands, but which,
if they fell into the hands of secret-service agents, would tell nothing and not so much as
arouse enough suspicion to cause them to investigate me and take a look at me. I could not
frame, to my satisfaction, even one such letter. I knew that any messenger I employed would
most likely post off to some Imperial spy and show him my letter before he took it to its destination
or instead of delivering it. I canvassed every possible messenger, from my personal servitor
here in the Choragium, through all the slaves I knew here or in the Colosseum who are free
to run about the city, up to every sort of street-gamin, idler, loafer, sycophant and what
not. I could not think of any kind of messenger who would be safe, nor of any letter which
would not be dangerous. Much as I wanted to apprise Vedia of my survival I could not but feel
that any attempt on my part to communicate with her or with you would lead straight to betrayal,
detection, recognition and the death from which Agathemer saved me."

"I believe you were right," Tanno agreed. "It has all come out for the best. You are alive
and unsuspected and I have found you."

"How did you find me?" I queried.

"Galen," he said, to my astonishment, "told me that you were sheltered in the Choragium, cloaked
under the style and title of Festus the Beast- Tamer. He said he recognized you last fall,
but did not judge it wise to give me or Vedia so much as a hint as long as you were busy in
the arena in full view of all Rome on festival days and under the eyes of our entire nobility
during our Prince's exhibitions of himself as Hercules Delirans. When Commodus abruptly realized
that beast-killing might not suit his health because of the opportunities it gave for accidentally
letting lions or tigers or what not out of their cages at unexpected moments, since he was
not likely to revert to his renounced sport and you were not likely to be so much in demand
and therefore less likely to be much under observation, Galen thought it safe to tell me. He
says he has always believed that you had nothing to do with Egnatius Capito's conspiracy, had
merely been seen by some secret-service agent while talking to Capito, never were a member
of his conspiracy, never conspired against Commodus, never were disloyal, have never been and
are not any danger to our Prince, and therefore are a man to be shielded rather than informed
on. So he kept his face when he recognized you in the arena masquerading as Festus and kept
his counsel till he judged the time ripe to tell me.

"I at once told Vedia, in person and privately. She is overjoyed, and, just as her encounter
with you on the Flaminian Road not only stopped her proposed marriage to Orensius Pacullus,
but made her feel she never wanted to hear of him again, so your resurrection and reappearance
now has spoiled an apparently prosperous wooing of her by Flavius Clemens, who is as good a
fellow as lives; noble, rich, handsome, charming and just such a suitor as Vedia might and
should have married if you were really dead, and one she could not, in any case, help flirting
with. She must have admiration, attention and admirers. With all her love of gaiety she loves
you unalterably."

"I infer," I said, "that she told you of our encounter on the Flaminian Way."

"She did," he answered, "and gave me a full report of your story of your adventures from Plosurnia's
Tavern till she saw you. As soon as we conferred we both started to use all our influence and
any amount of cash necessary (we both have cash to spare, hoards of it) to arrange for your
legal manumission by the fiscus, your disappearance, and your comfort in some secure shelter
until it might be safe for you to reappear as yourself in your proper station in society.

"We found we should have no difficulty in arranging for your manumission. It has already been
favorably reported on the recommendation of the authorities of Nuceria. We had only to slip
a small bribe or two to expedite matters. But when we sent off a dependable agent, armed with
all the necessary papers, to set you free from your captivity on the Imperial estate, and provide
you with plenty of cash to make everything smooth for your disappearance, he was confronted
with a most circumstantial story of your assassination and burial, with the official reports
of both and the affirmation of an upper inspector who had investigated the matter.

"We could not but think you dead in fact and Vedia was as heartbroken as five years ago, if
not more so, for the glamour of that romantic encounter with you was magical. I believed you
dead and was astounded when Galen gave me his information. Vedia is as amazed as I."

After some mutual desultory chat he fell to questioning me about my adventures and, drinking
and eating when the humor took us, we spent most of the day together, I rehearsing for him
all that I had told Vedia and much more in detail and also telling of all which had befallen
me since then.

When Tanno left, it was as late as he could possibly remain and yet reach the Baths of Titus
in time for the briefest bath there.

Next day he came again.

By this time both he and I had had time to think over the situation and to arrive at definite
conclusions as to what was best to do. I was delighted to find that his ideas and mine agreed
as to all essentials.

When he first came in he said:

"I had mighty little sleep last night. I could hardly close my eyes for thinking over your
marvellous adventures. The more I ponder over them the more wonderful they seem; especially
your involvement with Maternus; your encounter with Pescennius Niger; your presence in the
Circus Maximus when Commodus:--I mean Palus:--drove his car over the axles of the stalled chariots
and escaped between them out of the smash and wreckage; your involvement with the mutineers,
and your safety in Rome all these months, even in the arena of the amphitheater. I congratulate
you."

Then he told me his plan which he had already talked over with Vedia and which she approved. (about).
Culch. Off, i guess there'mho injury. Miss T. (soothingly).

When you to state "that kind homo," i assume you refer to this description my-- er-- twin considered
it humorous to give of me as an hypochondriac? Miss. really, been most; he didn't say certainly
that.

He correspond you seemed as one of fonniest persons said; annoyed you state stories which tickled folks
to death been well. Culch attended. Well, the is the Title.

PODBURY!
(unsociable). To have such odious calumnies circulated about one behind
one's back is simply too-- I do not aim to-- ah-- to titillate tribe to
death! Your instinct was correct-- absolutely be right.

I state him he needn't
appraise to give me gratefully, for i could see you weren't that
kind of man!

I agreed with him.

Then he disclosed his plan for bringing this about. By influence or bribing or both he would
arrange to have me sold out of the Choragium, ostensibly as now superfluous there, and to have
me bought from the fiscus by a dependable and close-mouthed go-between buyer, who would agree
to hold me for quick resale to a purchaser designated by Tanno. Thus Nonius Libo, the wealthy
provincial who was to be induced to purchase me, would know nothing of my identity with Festus
the Animal Tamer or of my connection with the Choragium.

I acclaimed this project, as far more promising than Vedia's plan to seclude me in the dreary
wilds of Bruttium.

Tanno gave me a letter and went off. I found the missive a long and loving letter from Vedia:
one to soothe and transport any lover.

Tanno had said that he would not visit me again except as was absolutely needful, considering
it reckless and venturesome to run the risk of some Imperial spy noticing his visits to the
Choragium and making investigations. Though he remarked that no man in Rome seemed less likely
than he to be suspected of disloyalty, intrigue or of being a danger to the Prince.

Within a very few days he paid me one more visit to inform me that everything had gone well,
that all necessary arrangements had been made for my sale by the fiscus out of the Choragium,
and all necessary preparations made to take full advantage of it.

A few days later I was formally sold for cash to a provincial slave- dealer, named Olynthides.
In a slave-barrack which he had hired for the month only I found myself with a motley crew,
but kept apart from them and comfortably lodged, well fed and considerately treated, as valuable
merchandise.

The day after Olynthides had bought me Nonius Libo came to inspect me. He talked to me in Latin
and in Greek, commended my fluency and polish in the use of both, had me write out a letter
in each at his dictation, read both and commended my accuracy, script and speed; questioned
me about the history of music, painting, and sculpture and as to my opinions on the works of
various sculptors, painters, architects and composers; asked about my tastes along these lines
and as to jewelry, fine furniture, tapestries, carpets and the like; also as to my personal
tastes concerning lodging, bathing, hunting, food and clothing and was I a good sailor and
fond of the sea; and stated that I suited him.

I was not present at his chaffering with Olynthides but, after no long interval I was summoned
into the courtyard and Olynthides handed me over to Nonius Libo, along with a bill of sale.

CHAPTER XXXII

PHORBAS

Olynthides had said to me:

"I make it a point always to forget the names of the slaves I buy for cash without any guarantees
and resell the same way. I have as bad a memory for names as any man alive and I help my bad
memory to be as much worse as I can. I'll forget your name in a few days. I am not sure I remember
it now. What is it?"

I was ready for him, for I had made up my mind to change my name again and had selected my
new name.

"Phorbas" I answered.

"Oh, yes!" he ruminated, "Phorbas, to be sure. I should have said Florus or Foslius or something
like that. Phorbas! I'll remember Phorbas till after you are sold and the cash in my hands
and you and your new master out of sight. Then I'll forget that too, like all the rest."

As Phorbas, Phorbas the Art Connoisseur, I began my life with Nonius. He was domiciled in a
palace of a residence on the Carinae, which he had leased for the short term of his proposed
stay in Rome. There I was lodged in a really magnificent apartment, with a private bath, a
luxurious bedroom, a smaller bedroom for the slave detailed to wait on me, a tiny triclinium
and a jewel of a sitting-room, gorgeous with statuettes and paintings, crammed with objects
of art and walled with a virtuoso's selection of the best books of the best possible materials
and workmanship.

There I spent some happy days. Nonius had told me I might go out all I pleased. I had replied
that I preferred to remain indoors until we set out for Carthage. He smiled, nodded and said:

"I understand: do as you like."

I passed my time most agreeably, except for several intrusions by Libo's wife, Rufia Clatenna.
She was a tall, raw-boned, lean woman, with unmanageable hair which would not stay crimped,
a hatchet face, too much nose and too little chin, a stringy neck, very large, red, knuckly
hands and big flat feet. She had a mania for economy and close bargains, seemed to regard her
husband as an easy mark for swindlers and to be certain that he had been cheated when he bought
me. She thought herself an art-expert, whereas she had no sound knowledge of any branch of
art, no memory for what she had heard and seen, and no taste whatever. To demonstrate that
her husband had made a bad bargain when he bought me she bored me with endless questions concerning
the contents of her domicile, of which she understood almost nothing, and concerning famous
composers, painters, sculptors and architects, as to whom she confused the few names, dates
and works she thought she knew about.

Nonius came on us in his atrium while she was putting me through a questionnaire on every statue,
painting and carving in it. The first time he saw me alone he said, smiling:

"You mustn't mind her; I put up with her, you can, too."

When he came into my apartment and told me he meant to set off from Rome next day, I ventured
to express my puzzlement that he had bought me and never mentioned to me, since I came into
his possession, any of the subjects on which he had questioned me and for knowledge of which
he had, presumably, wanted me.

"Oh," he said, "I didn't buy you for myself. I know very little about art and music and am
no connoisseur at all. I bought you for my cousin Pomponius Falco. He is as much interested
in such matters as any man in Africa. He is richer than I and you'll find him the best possible
master. He'll be at Carthage when we get there and I'll resell you to him soon after we land."

Nonius and Clatenna had no children, but doted on her sister's son, a lad of not much over
twenty, lean as his aunt, but small boned and not unshapely. He was not, however, handsome,
for he had a pasty, grayish complexion, thin lank hair, almost no beard, and a long nose suggesting
a proboscis. His name was Rufius Libo, and he was Nonius Libo's heir. In his favor Nonius made
a will a few days before we left Rome, leaving him his entire estate except a jointure to Clatenna,
endowments to some municipal institutions in his home towns, legacies to various friends and
manumission to faithful slaves. Of this will he had several duplicates made and properly witnessed
and sealed. One of these he left on deposit in Rome; another he despatched to Carthage by a
special messenger by way of Rhegium, Messana, the length of Sicily to Lilybaeum and thence
by sea to Carthage; and he gave one each to Clatenna and to Rufius.

When he gave orders for the despatch of the copy of his will by the special messenger I was
astonished, as I assumed that we were to travel by the same route. But I found that he meant
to sail all the way from the Tiberside water-front of Rome to Carthage. This amazed me. And
not unnaturally. For we Romans generally dislike or even abhor the sea and sail it as little
as possible, making our journeys as much as we can by land and as little as may be by water,
choosing any detour by land which will shorten what crossings of the sea cannot be avoided.

Among the few Romans whom I have known who enjoy sea voyages I count myself. Of all of them
Nonius outclassed the rest. He worshiped the water and was happiest when afloat and well out
to sea. He told me that he had spent more money on his private yacht than on any of his residences,
and, when I saw her, I believed him. A larger, better designed, better equipped, better manned,
better supplied, better appointed private yacht I never beheld. No, TOBY, no! Yet stretch your tawny
muzzle Upon these tawny sands! Punch is no "mild-eyed melancholy" coon, Craved, like the Laureate's
islanders, to two moon In lands in which'tis full afternoon. The Lotos blows by many an creek.
 Rufius and Clatenna, while not as good sailors as Nonius and I, were notably good
sailors and we had a very pleasant voyage until we were almost in sight of Carthage. Then we
encountered a really terrific storm.

Now I am not going into any details of our disaster. I do not know whether all writers of memoirs
get shipwrecked or all survivors of shipwrecks write reminiscences, but I am certain that of
all the countless memoirs I have read in the course of my life, ninety-nine out of every hundred
contained one or more accounts of shipwrecks, narrated with the minutest detail and dwelling
on the horrors, agonies, miseries, fears, discomforts and uncertainties of the survivors and
narrators with every circumstance calculated to harrow up their readers' feelings. I could
write a similar meticulous narrative of my only shipwreck, and it was sufficiently uncomfortable,
terrifying, ghastly and hideous to glut a reader as greedy of horrors as could be, but I am
going to pass over it as lightly as possible and summarize it as briefly as I may.

Suffice it to set down here that we were not driven on any rock or reef or shoal nor did we
collide with any other ship. Laboring heavily in the open sea, straining on the crests and
wallowing in the troughs of the stupendous billows, the yacht, even as carefully built a yacht
as Libo's, began to leak appallingly, the inrush of the water surpassed the utmost capacity
of the pumps and the most frantic efforts of the men at them; the vessel settled lower and
lower, labored more and more heavily and was manifestly about to founder.

The officers were capable men, the small boats sturdy and their crews and steersmen skillful
and confident. Clatenna was brave and Libo magnificent. He kept his head, dominated his officers,
and insisted that Rufius and I should embark in a different boat from that to which he and
Clatenna trusted themselves. He personally saw to it that Clatenna and Rufius had, on their
persons, each their copy of his will.

Both boats were successfully launched, and, as we drew away from the doomed ship, we saw a
third and fourth put off with other valued members of his household. While a fifth and sixth
were being swung overboard we saw, from the top of a huge swell, the yacht go under and vanish;
saw, when we next rose on the chine of a billow, the water dotted with spars, wreckage and
swimmers; saw, five or six times more, the three other boats: and then many times, high on
a vast wave, beheld only the waste of lifeless waters, without boat or swimmer.

All night we floated and, not long after sunrise, we were seen and rescued by a trading ship
from Carales in Sardinia, bound for Carthage.

At Carthage we were soon in the palace formerly Libo's and now the property of Rufius. He,
on succeeding to his uncle's estate, at once rewarded with a huge donation the steersman of
the boat in which we had been saved, saying that the other steersmen did their best, but that,
if the others had been as dexterous as he, his aunt and uncle would not have perished by so
deplorable and so untimely a death.

Within a few days he, now my owner by inheritance, sold me to Pomponius Falco, as Nonius had
intended to do himself.

Falco liked me at first sight and I him. He was a man between thirty-five and forty years of
age, a natural born bachelor and art connoisseur. He was of medium height, of stout build,
with curly black hair and a curly black beard, a swarthy complexion, a bullet head, a bull
neck, a huge chest and plump arms and legs. He was by no means unhandsome in appearance and
very jovial, good-humored, and good-natured; manifestly fond of all the good things of life
and able to discriminate and appreciate the best.

For several days after I came into his possession I was his dearest toy. He spent most of his
waking hours conversing with me about music and musicians, poetry and poets, literature and
authors, paintings and painters, statuary and sculptors, architecture and architects, gems,
ivories, embroideries, textiles, furniture, pottery and even autographs and autograph collecting.
He seemed to appraise me an expert on all such lines and to be well pleased with his purchase.

Certainly I was as well clothed, fed, lodged and attended as if I had been his twin-brother.

Before he had owned me many days Falco said to me:

"Phorbas, I've been puzzling about you. You are a slave and you were sold to poor Libo and
by Rufius to me as a Greek. Yet you have none of the appearance nor behavior of a Greek nor
yet of a slave. You look and act and talk like a freeman born and a full-blooded Roman, and
a noble at that. Please explain." 

(or some such statement, which I suppose to be either Russian or an exclamation quite new and
original, but à metal Russe, and entirely his own concoction), with the cheery and enthusiastic subtraction
of, "Blass the Aristocrat of WAILES!" Petzikoff! " I realized that I must be ready with a reply wholly plausible
because entirely consonant with the facts of our social life, as they existed, so that no one
could take any exception to it. I thought I had framed such a reply.

"You know how it is," I answered easily. "A Roman master buys a young and comely Greek handmaid.
In due course she has a daughter, legally also a slave and nominally a Greek, yet half Roman.
When she is grown, if she happens to be comely and the property of a master like most masters,
she has a daughter, a slave and spoken of as a Greek, yet only a quarter Greek. If she has
a similar daughter, that daughter, a slave and called a Greek, is only one-eighth Greek. I
conceive, from all I know, that my great grandmother, grandmother and mother were such slave
women. I, a slave and ostensibly a Greek, am fifteen-sixteenths Roman noble, by ancestry, according
to my reckoning. No wonder my descent shows in my bearing, manner and conversation."

This answer was, actually, not so far from the facts, my mother, grandmother and great-grandmother
had, certainly, been Roman noblewomen, daughters indeed, each of one of the oldest and longest-lineaged
houses of our nobility; and, like my father, grandfather and great-grandfather, my great-great-grandfather
had been a Roman nobleman. But his father, my great-great-great-grandfather, had been a freed-man,
manumitted in the days of Nero, acquiring great wealth, attaining equestrian rank during the
last years of Nero's reign, and vastly enriched during the confusion of the civil wars, marrying
a young and wealthy widow after Vespasian was firmly established at Rome by the crushing of
the insurrection of Claudius Civilis.

Probably the general consonance of my answer with the facts made my utterance of it more convincing.
Certainly it appealed to Falco.

"Just about what I conjectured," he said, smiling. "And will you tell me in what part of Italy
and on what estate you were born and how you came by your air of aristocratic culture and by
your marvellous dilettantism?"

"I know what I know and am what I am," I replied, "because I was, from childhood, treated just
as if a son instead of a slave; pampered, indulged and made much of. That lasted till I was
more than full-grown.

"The misfortunes of the family to which I belonged came so suddenly that I was not manumitted,
as I should have been had my master had so much as a day's warning of his downfall. I was sold
to a fool and a brute, as you have probably inferred from my back. The marks of his barbarity
which I bear, and my lasting grief for the calamity of the household in which I was born, make
me unwilling to tell you anything of my past previous to my purchase from Olynthides by Nonius
Libo."

"Well," he said, "your feeling is natural and I shall not urge my curiosity on you. I mean
to indulge you and even pamper you; mean to endeavor to indulge you and pamper you so you will
feel more indulged and pampered than ever in your life, I'll make a new will, at once, leaving
you your freedom and a handsome property. I expect to live out a long life, all my kin have
been healthy and long-lived. But one can never be certain of living and I mean to run no risks
of your having any more troubles. You deserve ease and comfort. And you shall have them if
I can arrange it. I love you like a born brother and mean to treat you as well as if you were
my twin."

The year in which Commodus killed the two lions, each with one blow of his trifling-looking
little palm-wood club, in which year I was sold out of the Choragium, and purchased by Nonius,
in which I crossed the sea, was wrecked and saved and resold to Falco, was the nine hundred
and forty- first year of the City [Footnote: 188 A.D.] and the ninth of the reign of Commodus,
the year in which the consuls were Allius Fuscianus and Duillius Silanus, each for the second
time. In Africa, with Falco, I spent that and the following year very comfortably and happily,
for I was as well clothed, fed, lodged and tended as Falco himself. I liked him, even loved
him, and I felt perfectly safe.

The climate of Africa agreed with me, and I liked the fare, especially the many kinds of fruit
which we seldom see in Rome and then not in their best condition, and some of which we never
see in Italy at all. I admired the scenery, and I delighted in the cities, not only Carthage
and Utica, but both Hippo Regius and Hippo Diarrhytus, and also Hadrumetum, Tacape, Cirta and
Theveste, and even such mere towns as Lambaesis and Thysdrus, which last has an amphitheater
second only to the Colosseum itself. They all had fine amphitheaters, magnificent circuses,
gorgeous theaters and sumptuous public hot baths. Mad, oh, yais! Now com and beep troo dis'in. (PODBURY
obeys with docility.) you see? A Voman cooking her pefore ole a gettle. Hier again, dey haf was
puried a man viz de golera shildt he is daid, he dries to purst de goffin, you see only de handt shdicking
oudt. I revelled in it and could not have been happier except that I never heard
from Vedia or Tanno, let alone had a letter from either. And I wrote to both and sent off letter
after letter to one or the other. For it seemed to me that a letter in this form could not
excite any suspicion.

    "Phorbas gives greeting to Opsitius, and informs him that after he had
    been sold by Olynthides to Nonius Libo, he survived the sinking of his
    owner's yacht and was sold by Libo's heir to Pomponius Falco, in whose
    retinue he now is. Farewell."

I sent off, at least once a season, a letter like this to both Tanno and Vedia. No word from
either ever reached me. I could but conjecture that all my letters had miscarried.

Meanwhile, besides being reminded of it each time I wrote to Tanno or Vedia, I did not forget
that I was a proscribed fugitive, my life forfeit if I were detected. I conceived that my best
disguise was to dress, act and talk as much as possible in the character of dilettante art
expert and music-lover, which I had assumed. Falco treated me, as he had prophesied, almost
as a brother. I had a luxurious apartment in each of his town residences and country villas,
and a retinue of servants: valet, bath- attendant, room-keeper, masseur, reader, messenger,
runner and a litter with three shifts of powerful bearers. Everything Falco could think of
in the way of clothing, furniture and art objects was showered on me and my slightest hint
of a wish was quickly gratified. Also Falco supplied me a lavish allowance of cash. Therefore
I could gratify any whim. Besides, my amulet-bag was intact and had in it all the gems which
Agathemer had originally placed there, except only the emerald Bulla had sold for me.

I thought up everything I could do to make myself look completely a Greek virtuoso and as un-Roman-looking
as possible. I patronized every complexion-specialist, friseur, perukier, manicurist and fashionable
barber in that part of the world. I bought every hair tonic for sale in the colony. Between
lotions and expert manipulation I succeeded in growing a thick curly beard, covering my chest
as far as the lower end of my breast-bone and a thick head of hair so long that, even when
elaborately frizzed and curled, my oiled and scented locks fell as far down my back as my beard
spread on my bosom. Nothing could have made me look more Corinthian and less Roman.

I wore the gaudiest clothing I could find; tunics and cloaks of pure silk and of the brightest
or most effeminate hues; crimson, emerald-green, peacock-green, grass-green, apple-green, sea-green,
sapphire-blue, sky- blue, turquoise-blue, saffron, orange, amethystine, violet and any and
every unusual tint; boots of glazed kidskin or of dull finish soft skin, of hues like my silk
garments, always with the edges of the soles heavily gilded. And, for my shoes as well as for
my garments, I chose particolored materials with the most startling or languorous combinations
of unusual dyes. All my boots and shoes were embroidered in silver thread or gold thread, all
my outer garments embroidered in crimson, deep green, deep blue, gold or silver, in big, striking,
conspicuous patterns. Mr. PAIN and sometimes gives way to little touch or two of sentiment, but as
we abstains from sloppiness. As for "The Grocery," I can only say of it that it is in its way
as a masterpiece. His book is not only possible and humorous but fresh
and original in style. I spent on such gewgaws a considerable
part of my allowance, yet never exhausted Falco's lavish provision for me.

I also went in for jewelry, loading my fingers with flashy rings, wearing bracelets on both
wrists, two or three on each, always two necklaces and even earrings, for which I had my ears
pierced, like a Lydian.

When I conned myself in my dressing-room mirror, arrayed in such a superfluity of decorations
and fripperies, I felt sure that no one would take me for a Roman.

In these apparently natural vanities and vagaries Falco humored me, enquiring of his friends
concerning friseurs of acclaimed reputation, buying me any gaudy fabrics he saw, also presenting
me with caskets of necklaces, amulets, bracelets, finger-rings and earrings. He rallied me
on my oriental tastes, but aided me to gratify them.

He even came to feel his interest in jewelry and gems enhanced by my fad for them. He took
to purchasing antiques in jewelry and rare and unusual gems and his hoard grew into a notable
collection.

By the end of my second winter with Falco I had come to know intimately all his town and country
palaces and all his dilettanti friends and had enjoyed to the full the many delights of the
colony, not only its climate and fruits, its scenery and cities, its statuary and pictures,
its libraries and public-baths, but its excellent performances of tragedies and comedies, and
its spectacles creditable, not only as to chariot-racing but also as to beast-fights and exhibitions
of gladiators. I found life in Africa extremely agreeable and looked forward to any length
of it with contentment.

I may remark that during this time Cleander came to the end of his period of unlimited wealth,
power and misrule. I was thus out of Rome at the time of his downfall and death and while the
Praetorium had a score of Prefects in rapid succession.

In the spring of the nine hundred and forty-third year of the city, [Footnote: A.D. 190.] and
the eleventh of the reign of Commodus, the year in which he was nominally consul for the sixth
time, along with Petronius Septimianus, Falco startled me, while we were dining alone together,
as Agathemer and I had used to dine together, by saying:

"Phorbas, you talk of Rome differently from any other man I ever heard talk of it. I have meditated
over the quality of what you say of Rome, but I cannot analyze it or describe it accurately.
Yet I may say that others talk of Rome as holy ground, but you alone make me feel that the
soil inside the Pomoerium is holy ground: others talk of the grandeur of Rome; you make me
realize its grandeur: others prate of their love for Rome: you, saying little, make me tingle
with a subtly communicated sense of how you love Rome: others babble of how life away from
Rome is not life, but merely existence; of how any dwelling out of Rome is exile, of how they
long for Rome; you, by some sorcery, make me not only feel how you long for Rome, but have
awakened in me a longing for Rome. I have never been out of this colony of Africa, not even
into Mauretania. A man as rich as I and of equestrian rank can afford to travel, to visit all
the interesting parts of the Empire, to live where he likes, anywhere in Italy or even in Rome.

"I have never wanted to leave this colony: I love every bit of it and especially my residences
and estates. I have been satisfied here. When my friends argued with me and tried to persuade
me to travel and especially to visit Rome, I never was convinced by their arguments. I have
a dread of sea-voyaging, a dread accentuated by the death of poor Libo. who was an enthusiastic
voyager and had a yacht as staunch and a crew as capable as skill could produce, money buy
and judgment collect. Yet he perished. I did not need the warning of his fate to keep me ashore.
Then again, I prefer to be a big frog in a small pond to being a small frog in a big pond,
I am one of the most important men in this colony and, here in Africa, I am always somebody.
In Rome I should be nobody.

"Yet, without my realizing it and later against my will, your conversation, in some subtle
way, has so infected me with the desire to see Rome that I am going to brave the terrors of
the seas, am going to sink myself into insignificance among the scores of richer and more influential
men who cluster about Caesar. I am even going to put at the mercy of the sea my precious collection
of gems, which I now value more than you and myself together and twice over.

"I have made all my arrangements. I have put my affairs in order, made sure that my estates
will be properly managed in my absence, bought the best yacht to be had in the harbor of Carthage,
and that is saying a great deal for its excellence, and I have ordered coffers in which to
pack my beloved gems.

"Prepare to accompany me; within ten days we set off for Rome."

I knew Falco. Easy-going as he was, when he had taken a notion to buy and indulge a connoisseur-slave,
collect gems or visit Rome, opposition, arguments, artfulness or stratagems were alike useless.
I resigned myself to my fate.

I meditated over this fifth fulfillment of the prophecy of the Aemilian Sibyl.

Since I had been with Falco and practically a free and rich man, I had made handsome sacrifices
at Mercury's Temples in all the cities we visited which had temples to Mercury. The morning
after Falco announced his intentions to go to Rome I went out alone and unattended; myself,
in the market place of Carthage, bought two white hens; myself carried them to the Temple of
Mercury and myself had them offered to the god. 

The old Johnny seems full of pretty fancies.

(He looks through another peephole.) Girl till choragium.

Any other domestic subjects mellow on management? (He suddenly sees
Miss TROTTER and Shields with their animals to who him.) Hal-- lo,
this luck! The day before we sailed I had
conned my image in the mirror in my dressing-room and had comforted myself with the decision
that no human creature could conceivably suspect of being a Roman this full-bearded, longhaired,
long- nailed, frizzed, curled, oiled, perfumed, gaudy, tawdry, bedizened, bejeweled, powdered,
rouged, painted popinjay.

I laid in an extra supply of nail-polish, nail-tint, rouge, face-paint, blackening for painting
eyebrows and eyelashes, and of perfumery, cosmetics, unguents and such like. If I were sufficiently
whitened, reddened, rouged, and painted I hoped I should be well enough disguised to face Gratillus
or even Flavius Clemens without a qualm. Actually my bizarre and fantastic appearance was an
almost complete protection to me.

And I needed protection. For Falco was related to many prominent families and men in Rome;
for instance, he was a cousin of Senator Sosius Falco, who was consul two years later. He was
introduced widely and at once and invited everywhere. I was constantly in attendance on him.

My experiences during my long stay at Rome with Falco were, in truth, amazing. He bought a
fine palace on the Esquiline, near the Baths of Titus, furnished it lavishly, entertained magnificently
and revelled in the life of Rome. At first I was busy showing him the chief sights of the City,
then the minor sights, then coaching him in the niceties of social usages, then convoying him
on the round of all notable sculptures, picture galleries, private collections of pictures
or statuary, famous museums, repositories of all kinds of art objects and, especially, the
gem collections, both private and public, particularly the large exhibit in the temple of Venus
Genetrix, placed there by the Divine Julius, and the smaller exhibit in the temple of Apollo
on the Palatine, donated by Octavia's son, Marcellus.

Later he divided his time between giving dinners and going out to dinners and haunting the
houses of gem collectors and the shops of jewelers.

He began visiting jewelers' shops, to be sure, within a few days of our arrival in Rome. We
had not been there ten days, in fact, when he made me conduct him to the Porticus Margaritaria,
on the Via Sacra, near the great Forum, which was and is the focus of pearl dealers and gem
dealers in general in Rome.

There we entered several shops and, at last, I could not keep him out of that of Orontides,
who had known me perfectly. His was unique among shops in Rome and probably was the largest
and most splendid jewelry shop in all the world: more like a small temple of Hercules or a
temple-treasury than a shop. It was not in the Pearl-Dealers' Arcade, where only small, square,
usual shops were possible, but adjacent to it and entered from the Via Sacra. It was circular,
with a door of cast bronze, beautifully ornamented with reliefs of pearl-divers, tritons, nereids
and other marine subjects. Inside its dome-shaped roof was lined with an intricate mosaic of
bits of glass as brilliant as rubies, emeralds and sapphires, or as gold and silver. The roof
rested on a circular entablature with a very ornate cornice, under which was a frieze ornamented
with reliefs, representing winged cupids working as gem-cutters and polishers, as chasers of
salvers and goblets, and as goldsmiths and silversmiths. The architrave was as ornate as the
cornice. The entablature was supported by eight Ionic columns of the slenderest and most delicate
type, of dark yellow Numidian marble, while the lining of the wall-spaces was of the lighter
yellow Mauretanian marble. Of the eight wall-spaces one was occupied by the doorway, over which
was a bronze group representing a combat of two centaurs. On either side of the door was a
wall-space ennobled by a niche with a life-size, bronze statue, one of Orontides' father, the
other of his grandfather, both of whom had been distinguished gem-dealers at Antioch. Two more
wall-spaces were occupied by ample windows, not of open lattices, but glazed with almost crystalline
glass set in bronze, a form of window seldom seen except in great temples, the Imperial Palace,
and the residences of the most opulent senators and noblemen.

The three wall-spaces behind the counter were filled from column to column with tiers of superposed
recesses, in size like the urn niches of a burial columbarium, but each closed with a door
of cornel-wood carved and polished, behind which doors Orontides kept his precious merchandise.

The counter divided the shop across from window to window. It had in the middle a narrow wicket
through which Orontides and his assistants could crawl in and out. Otherwise the outer face
of the counter was of two blocks of Numidian marble, carved in patterns of twining vines; its
top was of one long slab of the exquisitely delicate white marble from Luna. On it lay always
squares of velvet, in color dark blue, black, dark green, and crimson, on which were admirably
displayed his goldsmith work and jewelries.

Below the panels about each statued niche was a curved seat of Numidian marble amply large
for four persons at once, so that eight prospective customers could sit and wait while as many
stood at the counter; and, according to my recollection of the shop in the days of my prosperity,
a shop crowded with customers was the rule rather than the exception with Orontides.

It was crowded when we entered. I, endeavoring to conserve a natural demeanor, felt my sight
blur. I saw, as we entered, only a row of backs of customers standing at the counter: three
in noblemen's togas, one in the toga of a senator, their fulldress boots conspicuously red
beneath their robes; four in the silken garments of wealthy ladies, all in pale soft hues of
exquisite Coan dyes.

Of these eight backs two, one of the lady midway of the counter, the other of her escort, appeared
terrifyingly familiar.

In fact, when we entered I had three distinct shocks in quick succession. Flashy, painted and
rouged as I was I dreaded Orontides' eyes. There he was behind his counter, visible through
a rift in the press of handsomely dressed customers of both sexes.

Instinctively I glanced at the only other interval in the line of absorbed opulent backs.

Through it I recognized Agathemer smiling at me! 

(he looks round the walls.) perhaps these WIERTZ's masterpieces, eh? h'm--. strenuous, vigorous,--
a crude, she so. I don't so much mind her thinking me fastidious and exclusive. I daresay i
am-- but i do object to being made out a melancholiac!

I recognized the back of Flavius Clemens!

If he turned round I felt I was lost. Yet I could not flee. Falco was certain to linger in
the shop. I must keep my self-control and prepare to brazen out anything.

The next instant I recognized the back of the lady next Flavius Clemens.

Vedia!

As I recognized her she turned, saw me, knew me through my disguise, flushed, and turned back.

I should not have been surprised if she had fainted and crumpled up on the white and brown
mosaic floor in front of the counter. She kept her feet and her outward self-possession.

Clemens spoke to her in an undertone.

"No," she answered him, in a choked voice, "I have changed my mind. I won't take these."

She was handling an unsurpassable necklace of big pearls.

He whispered to her.

"No," she said, curtly. "I won't look at any others. I think I'll go home."

He was so amazed that he never saw me or, I think, anything or anybody else in that shop just
then. He escorted her out.

When I regained my self-possession enough to feel that I appeared at ease and could trust myself
to glance at the other customers as I should have done had I been in fact what I was trying
to appear, I was relieved to find that not one of them was more than distantly known to me.

