In the summer of 1874 the paymaster of the Southern Pacific Railroad Company, Major J. M. Hanford,
sent me an invitation to accompany him on the pay car through the San Joaquin Valley, to pay
off the employees of the company. I was delighted to have an opportunity of going through the
valley. At the appointed time I was on hand with two boxes of cigars, for I knew the Major
was likely to have some lively, good natured fellows with him, and I wanted to have something
with me to help me along. Now I must say something about this pay car, for it was a wonderful
thing for me. It had the appearance on the inside of a hotel on wheels. At the rear end was
a window through which the employees were paid; the depth of the room in which were the pay
master and his two check clerks, was about the same as the width of the car. In it were the
safe, rifles, shotguns, pistols, ammunition galore, with an opening into what was used as the
dining room and berths, which would accommodate about 12 people. Now, if the climate has influence on this manifold (Waitz 1, 45), yet everywhere
but not a constant and safe to be detected. For with the Eskimos, on Kamchadals and other peoples
in such high latitudes, we find the same Appearance and Fiji, for example in the hot zone, it does
not show. Waitz 1, 125 leads the animal food and the high temperature in the cabins of many
of these peoples as a fundamental at. But even this does not at all. Should not the cause of
early puberty be that once used to be the utter licentiousness of native peoples' wishes excited
and the girls are also seeking to early? That could and had over the generations show its effect.
Inherited the habit, more and more, sat down by inheritance always solid, and so the sexual functions
really develop earlier than the human Nature is actually normal. Thus, this phenomenon in all primitive
people would like easy to explain: and you learn more in a day habit and inheritance of their importance
for the History of mankind appreciated. That climate and have worked with other life, is not
intended to abgeläugnet, only they are in the nature of subordinate peoples Influence and the
influence of habit and heredity is certainly the main thing. Nowhere The influence of the
will, wishes and thoughts as great as in the just-sex Ratio.

[D] Traces of it are found in South America, Azara at 248, which tells of the Mbayas, that their
wives never eat meat from cows and monkeys, but because their girls
have absolutely no Meat, not even big fish and enjoy the time period
of only vegetables and fruit, could one explain this abstinence easier.

However, it is certainly one of the North American totem kindred originally no longer understood
custom, if the Caribs as never eat monkeys, anteaters, however, the visit as a delicacy, which
in turn the Makusis would only eat nothgedrungen (Schomburgk 2, 434). Animals are also in South
America as the ancestors and guardian spirits of many peoples. And it is no different in Africa
the Bechuanas whose individual strains steady their descent from certain animals have descriptive
names. "These animals are from the people who call themselves after them, held sacred, neither hunted
nor eaten, and it is customary "by asking what her dancing" after the name of it to inquire. "So
are men of the lion, crocodile, porcupine, Fish, monkeys, but also of iron, Waitz 1, 352 413.
The question "what is dancing her"? is odd. It is reminiscent of some animals performing dance
American and Australian peoples, and it is reasonable to assume that the sacred dances first symbolized
the life of the guardian spirits, as the Greeks danced the story of their gods. Later paled
the importance of such Dances often.

[E] Similar is also found in Indo-European peoples. Sacred animals as coats of arms and were
very common in proper names, see Grimm DM 633rd They were killed in the hunt, or pruned to a sacred tree, were
also present certain reconciling and apology Prayer formulas common to eb 618th

[F] Here, when Kadu not erroneously refers to a rude Melanesian strain, or to something quite
horrible to tell, or even deliberately deceived aufbindet. Probably because is not an indication
for Palau.

[G] twins are almost killed by all primitive peoples: even by the negroes (Waitz 2, 124).

[H] Although Jarven seems to question 83, some of the numbers.

[I] That way, even when Indo-Europeans and Semites, the children are often killed, is well
known enough. In Greece, the children were killed, which of the father when they The midwife
put him at the feet not lifted, a custom which in Plautus and Terence, ie the later Attic
comedy is mentioned so many times. Especially daughters killed. This killing was done mostly
by exposure (Schömann Greek antiquities 1 562). Among the ancient Germans prevailed quite the
same use.

The monument was erected to commemorate the raising of the American Flag at Monterey, the capital
of California, July 7, 1846, by the forces under command of Com. Jonathan Drake Sloat, U. S.
N. War had been declared between the U. S. and Mexico.

Nob Hill.

In later days, about 1877, the term Nob Hill was applied to the crown of California street
from Powell street westward three blocks to Jones street, on account of its having been selected
by the railroad magnates of the State upon which to build their new homes, it being their desire
to live together in their home life as well as in their business life. For negligence was the guard with decapitation threatened.

Thus
came the third day approached, but the bag was still hanging untouched
on the ceiling and the police expected their release.

As reported to the astonishment of all one of the youngest people and said he would try but he must
still have at least two days time.

He was taken to the emperor, these laughed at the young man and said, "Even though I you ten
weeks to admit the trick but you do not succeed! "

That may "agree," he replied, "and I myself believe that only a miracle to help us , but perhaps
such a miracle occurs in the two days, "The Emperor liked this bold
response. "Well, it should be!

These two days were not granted to you, "he decided.

The young cop looked at herself in the hall the bag very well and
impressed all permanently into memory, then he went home and made
a very same bag, he was filled with small stones.

On the second day he took this bag, put it in the sleeve of his jacket and was the Kaiser report,
that received him and asked if the miracle had already happened.

The officer then asked the emperor to the bag even allowed to watch, this approved and it was
even with the hall, where the bag was still hanging, guarded by four soldiers.

After he had looked at the bag for a while from all sides, he asked
if it the bag was allowed to take in hand.

Also approved by the emperor. The policeman then took a bank, stood
on it and took the bag from the hook, saw him again and to put it
in the sleeve, saying:

"This would go there!"

The emperor replied,
laughing: "So I could, but is not allowed. His son William H. built himself a home
on the far corner of the same block. This takes us to Jones street. When the late Charles Crocker
selected this site for his home there was one piece of property facing on Sacramento street
that he could not buy, so in order to get even with the owner, a Mr. Young, he had a tall spite
fence built around the house. Virtually destroyed only a few are up now and yet
we can, and we inability to development, physical or mental, nowhere find them, yet we must hope.
Of course, much ruined, and the ease the approach, the confidence with which they came to meet
the culture is irretrievably in most lost.

As before, the missionaries have the largest contributions to these peoples, to fall even if we
ask about the future, our eyes on the first missionaries.

The stone retaining wall on Powell and Pine streets, owing to a spring on the property, gave
way and had to be taken down (at the corner) and rebuilt. At the corner it extends 20 feet
below the sidewalk and is 20 feet thick and 30 feet high. The ground was then terraced.

The building cost in the neighborhood of $2,000,000.

On the corner above, Mark Hopkins built his home. At his death it passed into the hands of
a Mr. Searles who had married Hopkins' widow and, not caring to live in California, he had
it converted into an art gallery, and the beautiful conservatory into art rooms for the Art
Association of the University of California, to whom he bequeathed the property. The building
cost in the neighborhood Of $2,750,000.

On the next block, between Mason and Taylor streets, were the Hamilton home, the home of Ex-Mayor
E. B. Pond and that of the Tobins. While on the block from Taylor to Jones street stood the
A. N. Towne, H. H. Sherwood and George Whittell residences. Just beyond Jones street, on the
same side, stood the home of E. J. (Lucky) Baldwin of race horse fame.

In 1861 I moved to 1211 Taylor street, between Clay and Washington, and resided there continuously
until 1878, a period of 17 years. And I knew of Stanford, Hopkins, Crocker and Huntington,
the quartet of railroad magnates, better than they knew of me. But what shall I say of them?
They have all gone beyond the boundaries of human existence and their mansions, together with
all the other homes on the hill, were burned in the fire of April 18-21, 1906. Again, we must return to what we have above have said: the
children of victims only serve one with the gods, which children prefer were to have very valid
mediator, therefore, not to replace, were their own Children as victims disclosed in disease and
our view is supported by that the children usually went joyfully to their deaths: they knew they
were a good lot went to meet, hence the line with children's blood over the dead, which in this
way equal to the character of the agent carried in itself.

The children are victims in Mexico were mostly the same reason and the same purpose: for example,
two children of noble descent, if the seed came up drowned, four, if it was larger, starvation
revealed (4, 159). In Nicaragua, a boy, when rain was necessary offered to the gods (4, 379).
Similar victims brought into New Granada Chibchas before Battle (364).

But nowhere are the human victims of mass, as in Fiji, as we have there also cannibalism were terrible
form, than anywhere else. In celebration of manhood son of a chief, then told Sailor (Zeitschrift
9, 476) was a rebel city completely destroyed, kill the inhabitants, gathered in a heap, this
slave down and in this again the neophyte to be set. All the castaways, which requires their faith
must be killed and whoever it failed, would otherwise perish even in the wreck (Erskine 249-50).
Old parents are alive for their children, sick children from their parents buried (ibid.) and that
is it's own will of the victims, that takes them as (477) because you think you would come to and
through such death immediately to a different and much better Life and therefore tolerate this
hideous practice with real Familienanhänglichkeit. But it is therefore understandable that only
few people die of natural causes (Will. and Calvert 1, 188). Human sacrifice at the tomb,
especially of chiefs, are also usually as large, the women are either all or the favorite wives
and a lot of slaves murdered. The mother whose beloved son died, follows him at times into
Grave, the friend of a friend (Will. and Calvert 1, 134). Even this crowd, because of the Rewards
in the afterlife, the victims, the women strangle itself if they none this Service does (Erskine
293rd Mariner 1, 347). And how hard to stopped the human sacrifice is from the following note
at 440 Erskine produced: a Fiji Islander, had some of what Pity taken a prisoner is not sacrificed
to the god, since he appeared in the latter Dream tormented him about this omission follows with
remorse, that man almost fell into a frenzy. But the same party, which, as we have already
mentioned (p. 70), is against cannibalism and used to create looks for him, is that human sacrifice
hostile (Erskine 280) and so they too, as the effect is added to the Europeans, hopefully not
take too long .-- Similar practices were also found elsewhere in Melanesia, where nowhere as
excessive as in this case: namely, it is the buried alive parents, the sick, the murder of
the mother or a relative, if a child dies, what we are told.

Now what Polynesia is concerned, it is certainly an exaggeration to Michelis (91st without a source)
tells the King of Futuna (north of Samoa), whose island has 2000 residents have, while his
government in 1000 people sacrificed to the gods.

Because we find elsewhere in Polynesia human sacrifice is not too numerous. Of course it is a mistake
to Ellis 1, claims 106 they were introduced later in Tahiti, as it much with the whole Polynesian
religion grown too tight, but they are in later times, even before the discovery of the Natives
themselves very limited. At the start of a war god of war was a human sacrifice (Ellis 1, 276), the
other gods, as often people have been offered (1, 357). In War, with large national parties,
in diseases and the death of princes (Bratring 182-83. 196) sacrificed humans, and one of the
heads of the vanquished (which also Melanesian Custom was) in the temple as a votive offering 47 places
lined up (Moerenhout 2). More frequent were these sacrifices in Hawaii, where (Jarven 47)
are to be slaughtered often 80 people at once. It was here and in Tahiti, to prisoners or criminals
or people who at some taboo had broken, or if their were not available, people of the People
(18th Jarven Ellis supra). There was also more similar to the use Herveyinseln (Williams 215).
If now in Hawaii, according to the prince, these victims should be introduced later (Jarven 47),
so this is just a sign that you are seeing here is already so terrible to the custom had and
she was on the wane.


On the east side at the southeast corner of Washington, stood the J. B. Haggin home, while
on the northeast corner stood that of the Beavers, and at the corner of Jackson, the Tevis.'
In this neighborhood also lived Ina D. Coolbrith, whose home was the center of the literary
genius of the State, amongst them being Bret Harte, Joaquin Miller, and Charles Warren Stoddard.
Josiah Stanford, a brother of Leland Stanford, lived on the south side of Jackson street, just
below the Tevis home.

Here is as good a place as any to give my readers a short account of the Clay Street Hill Underground
Cable Railroad, which operated on Clay street from Leavenworth to Kearny streets, a distance
of seven blocks, and at an elevation of 307 feet above the starting point. 411). It is an empty claim, or the Catholic imagination Mission that they
would have on New Caledonia make stop cannibalism (Montravel in Nouv. annal. de la foi, 1854, 94),
Turner (to say nothing to others) found him there, very educated and so at ease that he was widely
acknowledged and discussed (426), as it will continue to of the constant wars of the island
(428) reported. The people of Isabel describes already Mendana 1595 (Dalrymple 91) as a cannibal
and eager warriors, how the inhabitants show of Guadalcanar. Eager warriors and cannibals are the
natives of the Lusiad (Salerio at Petermann 1862, 342-344) and says of the North West coast
of New Guinea one of the most familiar of these areas, Marsden (in Transact. of the Asian
Reg. Soc. 3.125) rule that there is an extremely raw cannibalism: it eats as much enemies as friends,
Deaths of course as good as slain, and this message is not against foreseeable as Finsch (49)
his claim that it should be of no credible man specific message on the occurrence of cannibalism
in New Guinea, where, will stand. Individual the New Guinea tribes are heads faster, ie they
beat dead, whom they find to turn heads prey to their right to own a lot is a great honor,
and so risks being merely this purpose in the district Namototte (Speelmannsbai) the most persistent
and most murderous wars (N. Guin.
 King, whose name was
James King (before coming to California he had added "of William" so as to distinguish himself
from others of that name), came to California November 10th, 1848, engaged in mining and mercantile
pursuits and in December 1849 engaged in the banking business in San Francisco. He ruled the People
for quite unfriendly, and then turned to those young policemen by he sarcastically asked if
the miracle had happened.

"I think so," he replied.

"He's totally crazy or outrageously cheeky,"
cried the emperor. He was fearless in his editorials,
but always within the bounds of right and justice, and took a strong position against corruption
of the city officials and their means of election. Since you left kneel the Son and shot
him in front of his mother and sister. Yet the woman did not . Admit They also had to kneel
down to die, offered since the daughter, the hiding to betray her father and brothers.
 And by his
so doing had aroused an enmity, and determination from the lawless element to stop his utterances,
even at the cost of his life, so when he attacked in his paper, one James P. Casey, a lawless
character, gambler and ballot box manipulator and Supervisor, as having served an eighteen-months
sentence in Sing Sing, N. Y., before coming to California, who also published a paper, "The
Sunday Times," it brought matters to a crisis, for Casey taking offense at this and other attacks
on his ilk, shot King on the evening of May 14, 1856. The bag is taken away be, without
anyone knows. Suspended him, then quietly back to the ceiling and give that also you can not
run it! "

Another person apparently made a sad face, pulled the bag out again,
and sigh attached to it.