"It is too late," said her husband, "to send Mary away now. Let her sup with us, as she has
worked all day in the great heat. Let her but remain this one night."

"Not even one hour," cried his wife passionately; and her husband, seeing that advice would
only irritate her more, remained silent.

Mary made no further attempt to defend herself against the unjust accusation. She immediately
made her simple preparations for her departure, wrapping up all that she had in a clean napkin.
When she had put the little bundle under her arm, thanked the servants of Pine Farm for their
kindness to her and protested once more her innocence, she asked permission to take leave of
her friends, the old farmer and his wife.

"You may do that," said the young farmer's wife, with a scornful smile; "indeed, if you wish
to take with you these two old people, it will give me great pleasure. It is evident death
does not mean to rid me of them for some time."

The good old people, who had heard the altercation, wept when Mary came to bid them good-bye.
However, they consoled her as well as they could, and gave her a little money to assist her
on her journey. "Go, good girl," said they to her, "and may God take care of you."

It was towards the close of the day when Mary set out with her little bundle under her arm,
and began to climb up the mountain, following the narrow road to the woods. She wished before
leaving the neighbourhood to visit her father's grave once more. When she came out of the forest
the village clock struck seven, and before she arrived at the graveyard it was nearly dark;
but she was not afraid, and went up to her father's grave, where she sat down and gave way
to a burst of grief. The full moon was shining through the trees, illumining with a silver
light the roses on the grave and the basket of flowers. The soft evening breeze murmured among
the branches, making the rose trees planted on her father's grave tremble.

"Oh, my father," cried Mary, "would that you were still here, that I might pour my trouble
into your ears! But yet I know that it is better that you are gone, and I thank the Lord that
you did not live to witness this last affliction. You are now happy, and beyond the reach of
grief. Oh, that I were with you! Alas, never have I been so much to be pitied as now. When
the moon shone into the prison which confined me you were then alive; when I was driven from
the home which I loved so much you were left me. I had in you a good father and protector and
faithful friend. Now I have no one. Poor, forsaken, suspected of crime, I am alone in the world,
a stranger, not knowing where to lay my head. The only little corner that remained to me on
the earth I am driven from, and now I shall no longer have the consolation of coming here to
weep by your grave!" At these words the tears rushed forth afresh.

"Alas," said she, "I dare not at this hour beg a lodging for the night. Indeed, if I tell why
I was turned out of doors, no one perhaps will consent to receive me."

She looked around. Against the wall, near her father's tomb, was a gravestone, very old and
covered with moss. As the inscription had been effaced by time, it was left there to be used
as a seat. "I will sit down on this stone," said she, "and pass the night by my father's grave.
It is perhaps the last time I shall ever be here. To-morrow at daybreak, if it be God's will,
I shall continue my journey, going wherever His hand may direct me."

CHAPTER XIV.

A STRANGE MEETING.

Mary sat down on the stone near the wall shaded by the thick foliage of a tree which covered
her with its dark branches. Here she poured out her soul in fervent prayer to God. Suddenly
she heard a sweet voice calling her familiarly by her name, "Mary, Mary!"

The late hour of night and the solitude of the graveyard and her loneliness made Mary start
with fear. Looking up she saw the beautiful face and figure of a woman, dressed in a long flowing
robe. Frightened and trembling, Mary was about to fly.

"Dear Mary," said the lady, with tenderness in her voice, "do not be alarmed; I am not a spirit,
but a human being like yourself. God has heard your fervent prayers, and I have come to help
you. Look at me; is it possible you do not know me?"

The moon was shining brightly upon her face, and with an exclamation of surprise, Mary cried
out, "Is it you, the Countess Amelia? Oh, how did you get here--here in so lonely a place at
this hour of the night, so far from your home?"

The Countess raised Mary gently from the ground, pressed her to her heart, and kissed her tenderly.

"Dear Mary," said she, "we have done you great injustice. You have been ill rewarded for the
pleasure which you gave me with the basket of flowers, but at last your innocence has been
made known. Can you ever forgive my parents and me? We are ready to make amends as far as it
lies in our power. Forgive us, dear Mary."

Mary was distressed at these words, and begged the Countess not to talk of forgiveness. "Considering
the circumstances," she said, "you showed great indulgence towards me, and it never entered
my mind to nourish the least resentment towards you. I had grateful thoughts of all your kindness,
and my only sorrow was that you and your dear parents should regard me as ungrateful enough
to be guilty of stealing your ring. My great desire was that you might one day be convinced
of my innocence, and God has granted this desire. May His name be praised!"

The Countess pressed Mary to her heart, and bathed her face in tears. Afterwards she looked
at James's grave and, clasping her hands, she cried out passionately, "Oh, noble man, whose
body lies here, whom I learned to love in my tender youth, whose affectionate counsels I have
often received, and whose fervent prayers I have so often listened to, why cannot I see your
face to ask pardon for all the injustice done you? Oh, if we had only taken more precaution,
if we had placed more confidence in an old servant who had always shown unimpeachable honesty
and faithfulness, perhaps thou hadst still been living with us!"

"Believe me, good Countess," said Mary, "my father was far from feeling the least resentment
towards you. He prayed for you daily, as he was accustomed to do when he lived at Eichbourg,
and at the hour of his death he blessed you all.

"'Mary,' said he to me, a little before he died, 'I feel confident that those whom we once
served will one day recognise your innocence, and recall you from exile. When that day comes,
assure the Countess and Count and Amelia that my heart was full of respect and love and gratitude
towards them till my last breath.' These, my dear Countess, were his last words."

The tears of the good Amelia flowed copiously. "Come, Mary," said she, "and sit down here with
me on the stone. We are safe here in the sanctuary of the Lord. Let me tell you of all the
strange events that have happened."

CHAPTER XV.

THE YOUNG COUNTESS'S STORY.

Having made Mary sit down beside her, the young Countess began her story.

"God is surely with you, dear Mary," said she, "and has taken you under His protection. I see
now that He has guided my steps here in order that I might find you for whom we have sought
so long. Simple as are the events which I am about to relate to you, we can see in them a chain
of truly providential circumstances.

"From the time that your innocence was discovered I had no more rest. You and your father were
always pressing on my mind, wandering without home and friends. Believe me, my dear Mary, I
have shed many bitter tears on your account. My parents were also deeply distressed at the
injustice they had unwittingly done you, and sought for you everywhere; but, as you know, without
being able to obtain any trace of you.

"Two days ago we came to a hunting-lodge of the Prince in the forest, not far from this village.
For twenty years at least this castle has not been visited, the only occupant being a gamekeeper.
My father had gone on business, and had spent the whole day in the forest in company with two
noblemen whose wives were staying at the castle. It had been a very warm day, and the evening
was very fresh. The setting sun, the mountain covered with pines interspersed with picturesque
rocks offered such a beautiful spectacle that I begged permission to take a walk. Accompanied
by the gamekeeper's daughter I set out, and as we passed along we found the graveyard gate
open, and the tombstones gilded by the light of the setting sun.

"Since my childhood I have always had a pleasure in reading inscriptions and epitaphs on tombstones.
I am moved when one tells of a young man or woman carried off in the bloom of youth, and I
feel a sort of melancholy pleasure if it concerns a person who had reached advanced age. The
verses themselves, poor as they may be from a poetical point of view, stir serious feelings
within me, and I never fail to carry away with me from a graveyard good thoughts and pious
resolutions.

"Entering the graveyard with the gamekeeper's daughter, I began as usual to read the inscriptions.
After a little while the girl said to me, 'Come, I will show you something very beautiful.
It is the grave of an old man, who has neither tombstone nor epitaph, but it has been ornamented
with taste and beauty by the tender piety of his daughter. See, you can just distinguish it
through the thick leaves of these pines--the beautiful rose tree and the basket of flowers.'

"You can imagine, dear Mary, the shock I received, when at the first glance I recognised the
basket of flowers which had never been out of my mind since that sad day when you left Eichbourg.
If there had been any doubts in my mind as to it being the same basket, the initials of my
name and the coat-of-arms of my family would have dispelled them. Turning to my companion,
I asked if she knew anything of you and your father. She told me all about your life at Pine
Farm, your father's sickness and death, and your great grief. After hearing all that the gamekeeper's
daughter could tell me, I went to the minister, only to hear the same story with very much
praise of yourself added. I would have gone off to Pine Farm immediately, but while the story
was being told me, time had passed rapidly, and it was now already quite dark. 'What shall
I do,' said I; 'it is now too late to go to the farm, but to-morrow at daybreak we will set
out.' Your good friend the minister sent for the schoolmaster to charge him to go and bring
you without delay to the castle.

"'My dear young friend,' said the schoolmaster, 'you need not go far to look for her. She has
gone to her father's grave to weep there. Alas, poor child!' he continued, 'I saw her sitting
there from an opening in the steeple when I went this afternoon to wind up the clock.'

"I at once determined to find you, and the minister wanted to accompany me, but I begged to
be allowed to come to you alone, that my first meeting with you might be as affectionate as
I desired. While I came here the old minister went to tell my parents where I was, and to prepare
them for your arrival. This accounts, my dear Mary, for my sudden appearance before you. You
can now see, through God's providence, this basket of flowers which separated us has reunited
us by your father's grave--that father who is now inhabiting the home above."

"Yes," said Mary, clasping her hands and raising her grateful eyes to heaven, "God has done
it all. He has had pity on my tears and on my needs. How can I thank Him for His goodness and
His boundless tenderness?"

"I have still one thing to tell you yet," answered the Countess Amelia, interrupting her, "and
it is one which seems to me singularly touching, and inspires me with an awe for the justice
of God who directs our lot even when we are unconscious of it. My maid, Juliette, had but one
thought, one desire. It was to banish you from my heart and to take your place in my affections.
It was with that design that she made up her terrible falsehood, and her wicked plan succeeded
too well. But that very falsehood was the means of her afterwards losing her place and our
confidence, and that made you dearer than ever to our hearts. Juliette endeavoured to estrange
you from me for ever, and your banishment was a constant subject of triumph to her.

"You know how that, in her wickedness, she threw this basket at your feet with an insulting
laugh. Well, it was exactly this event which was afterwards, although she little thought it
then, to reunite us for ever. For was it not indeed through this basket on your father's grave
that I discovered you to-day? Truly, those who have the love of God have nothing to fear from
any enemies. God knows how to turn to our advantage all the ill that wicked people do to us;
and our most cruel enemies, although for a while they may bring us to unhappiness, can do nothing
but contribute to our real and lasting happiness. We may say in this case that our safety comes
from our enemies.

"But now, dear Mary," said the Countess, "tell me what brought you so late to your father's
grave, and why, when I found you, you were weeping so bitterly."

When Mary had told her story, of how they had driven her from the Pine Farm on a false charge,
the Countess was astonished still more at the providence which had brought her and Mary together.

"Yes, indeed," said the Countess to Mary, "it is by God's will that I have found you to-day,
just when you were again plunged into the deepest distress. You were imploring His assistance
with burning tears running down your cheeks. This is another proof of what we have been speaking,
that God knows how to turn to our advantage the ill which our enemies design to do us. The
farmer's wicked wife, who drove you from her house, thought she would make you unhappy. Without
knowing it she has brought you to my arms and those of my parents, who, as well as myself,
are desirous of making your life happy.

"But it is now time to set out," said Amelia. "My parents will be anxious at my long absence.
Come, dear Mary, I will never leave you any more. Let us go to my parents."

CHAPTER XVI.

HOW THE RING WAS FOUND.

The road to the castle towards which the Countess now led Mary, lay through a long and dark
walk of tall old linden trees. For a while they walked in silence together, each wrapped in
her own thoughts, but at last the Countess said to Mary--

"Oh, I must now tell you how the ring was found. My father's affairs requiring his presence
at Eichbourg, we left Court earlier than usual this year--in the beginning of March. When we
arrived at the Castle, the weather was very boisterous, and one night in particular we had
a tremendous storm. You remember the great pear tree we had in our garden at Eichbourg? It
was very old, and bore scarcely any fruit. That night the wind, which blew with great violence,
had shaken it so much that it threatened every moment to fall, and my father ordered it to
be cut down.

"My father, and mother, the children, and servants, and indeed all of the people in the Castle,
came into the garden to see it fall. As soon as it was cut down, my two little brothers ran
immediately towards a magpie's nest in the tree, which had for a long time been a coveted object,
but had hitherto been out of their reach. Now they seized upon the nest and busied themselves
examining its contents.

"'Look, Albert!' said Augustus, 'what is that shining among the twigs? How bright it is!'

"'It sparkles like gold,' said Albert.

