THE COURTSHIP OF SUSAN BELL

by Anthony Trollope

John Munroe Bell had been a lawyer in Albany, State of New York, and as such had thriven well.
He had thriven well as long as thrift and thriving on this earth had been allowed to him. 
But the Almighty had seen fit to shorten his span.

Early in life he had married a timid, anxious, pretty, good little wife, whose whole heart
and mind had been given up to do his bidding and deserve his love.  She had not only deserved
it but had possessed it, and as long as John Munroe Bell had lived, Henrietta Bell--Hetta as
he called her--had been a woman rich in blessings. After twelve years of such blessings he
had left her, and had left with her two daughters, a second Hetta, and the heroine of our little
story, Susan Bell.

A lawyer in Albany may thrive passing well for eight or ten years, and yet not leave behind
him any very large sum of money if he dies at the end of that time.  Some small modicum, some
few thousand dollars, John Bell had amassed, so that his widow and daughters were not absolutely
driven to look for work or bread.

In those happy days when cash had begun to flow in plenteously to the young father of the family,
he had taken it into his head to build for himself, or rather for his young female brood, a
small neat house in the outskirts of Saratoga Springs.  In doing so he was instigated as much
by the excellence of the investment for his pocket as by the salubrity of the place for his
girls.  He furnished the house well, and then during some summer weeks his wife lived there,
and sometimes he let it.

How the widow grieved when the lord of her heart and master of her mind was laid in the grave,
I need not tell.  She had already counted ten years of widowhood, and her children had grown
to be young women beside her at the time of which I am now about to speak. Since that sad day
on which they had left Albany they had lived together at the cottage at the Springs.  In winter
their life had been lonely enough; but as soon as the hot weather began to drive the fainting
citizens out from New York, they had always received two or three boarders--old ladies generally,
and occasionally an old gentleman--persons of very steady habits, with whose pockets the widow's
moderate demands agreed better than the hotel charges.  And so the Bells lived for ten years.

That Saratoga is a gay place in July, August, and September, the world knows well enough. 
To girls who go there with trunks full of muslin and crinoline, for whom a carriage and pair
of horses is always waiting immediately after dinner, whose fathers' pockets are bursting with
dollars, it is a very gay place.  Dancing and flirtations come as a matter of course, and matrimony
follows after with only too great rapidity.  But the place was not very gay for Hetta or Susan
Bell.

In the first place the widow was a timid woman, and among other fears feared greatly that she
should be thought guilty of setting traps for husbands.  Poor mothers! how often are they charged
with this sin when their honest desires go no further than that their bairns may be "respectit
like the lave."  And then she feared flirtations; flirtations that should be that and nothing
more, flirtations that are so destructive of the heart's sweetest essence. She feared love
also, though she longed for that as well as feared it;--for her girls, I mean; all such feelings
for herself were long laid under ground;--and then, like a timid creature as she was, she had
other indefinite fears, and among them a great fear that those girls of hers would be left
husbandless,--a phase of life which after her twelve years of bliss she regarded as anything
but desirable.  But the upshot was,--the upshot of so many fears and such small means,--that
Hetta and Susan Bell had but a dull life of it.

Were it not that I am somewhat closely restricted in the number of my pages, I would describe
at full the merits and beauties of Hetta and Susan Bell.  As it is I can but say a few words.
At our period of their lives Hetta was nearly one-and-twenty, and Susan was just nineteen.
Hetta was a short, plump, demure young woman, with the softest smoothed hair, and the brownest
brightest eyes.  She was very useful in the house, good at corn cakes, and thought much, particularly
in these latter months, of her religious duties.  Her sister in the privacy of their own little
room would sometimes twit her with the admiring patience with which she would listen to the
lengthened eloquence of Mr. Phineas Beckard, the Baptist minister. Now Mr. Phineas Beckard
was a bachelor.

Susan was not so good a girl in the kitchen or about the house as was her sister; but she was
bright in the parlour, and if that motherly heart could have been made to give out its inmost
secret-- which however, it could not have been made to give out in any way painful to dear
Hetta--perhaps it might have been found that Susan was loved with the closest love.  She was
taller than her sister, and lighter; her eyes were blue as were her mother's; her hair was
brighter than Hetta's, but not always so singularly neat.  She had a dimple on her chin, whereas
Hetta had none; dimples on her cheeks too, when she smiled; and, oh, such a mouth!  There;
my allowance of pages permits no more.

One piercing cold winter's day there came knocking at the widow's door--a young man.  Winter
days, when the ice of January is refrozen by the wind of February, are very cold at Saratoga
Springs.  In these days there was not often much to disturb the serenity of Mrs. Bell's house;
but on the day in question there came knocking at the door--a young man.

Mrs. Bell kept an old domestic, who had lived with them in those happy Albany days.  Her name
was Kate O'Brien, but though picturesque in name she was hardly so in person.  She was a thick-
set, noisy, good-natured old Irishwoman, who had joined her lot to that of Mrs. Bell when the
latter first began housekeeping, and knowing when she was well off; had remained in the same
place from that day forth.  She had known Hetta as a baby, and, so to say, had seen Susan's birth.

"And what might you be wanting, sir?" said Kate O'Brien, apparently not quite pleased as she
opened the door and let in all the cold air.

"I wish to see Mrs. Bell.  Is not this Mrs. Bell's house?" said the young man, shaking the
snow from out of the breast of his coat.

He did see Mrs. Bell, and we will now tell who he was, and why he had come, and how it came
to pass that his carpet-bag was brought down to the widow's house and one of the front bedrooms
was prepared for him, and that he drank tea that night in the widow's parlour.

His name was Aaron Dunn, and by profession he was an engineer.  What peculiar misfortune in
those days of frost and snow had befallen the line of rails which runs from Schenectady to
Lake Champlain, I never quite understood.  Banks and bridges had in some way come to grief,
and on Aaron Dunn's shoulders was thrown the burden of seeing that they were duly repaired.
Saratoga Springs was the centre of these mishaps, and therefore at Saratoga Springs it was
necessary that he should take up his temporary abode.

Now there was at that time in New York city a Mr. Bell, great in railway matters--an uncle
of the once thriving but now departed Albany lawyer.  He was a rich man, but he liked his riches
himself; or at any rate had not found himself called upon to share them with the widow and
daughters of his nephew.  But when it chanced to come to pass that he had a hand in despatching
Aaron Dunn to Saratoga, he took the young man aside and recommended him to lodge with the widow.
"There," said he, "show her my card."  So much the rich uncle thought he might vouchsafe to
do for the nephew's widow.

Mrs. Bell and both her daughters were in the parlour when Aaron Dunn was shown in, snow and
all.  He told his story in a rough, shaky voice, for his teeth chattered; and he gave the card,
almost wishing that he had gone to the empty big hotel, for the widow's welcome was not at
first quite warm.

The widow listened to him as he gave his message, and then she took the card and looked at
it.  Hetta, who was sitting on the side of the fireplace facing the door, went on demurely
with her work. Susan gave one glance round--her back was to the stranger--and then another;
and then she moved her chair a little nearer to the wall, so as to give the young man room
to come to the fire, if he would. He did not come, but his eyes glanced upon Susan Bell; and
he thought that the old man in New York was right, and that the big hotel would be cold and
dull.  It was a pretty face to look on that cold evening as she turned it up from the stocking
she was mending.

"Perhaps you don't wish to take winter boarders, ma'am?" said Aaron Dunn.

"We never have done so yet, sir," said Mrs. Bell timidly.  Could she let this young wolf in
among her lamb-fold?  He might be a wolf;-- who could tell?

"Mr. Bell seemed to think it would suit," said Aaron.

Had he acquiesced in her timidity and not pressed the point, it would have been all up with
him.  But the widow did not like to go against the big uncle; and so she said, "Perhaps it
may, sir."

"I guess it will, finely," said Aaron.  And then the widow seeing that the matter was so far
settled, put down her work and came round into the passage.  Hetta followed her, for there
would be housework to do.  Aaron gave himself another shake, settled the weekly number of dollars--with
very little difficulty on his part, for he had caught another glance at Susan's face; and then
went after his bag. 'Twas thus that Aaron Dunn obtained an entrance into Mrs. Bell's house.
"But what if he be a wolf?" she said to herself over and over again that night, though not
exactly in those words.  Ay, but there is another side to that question.  What if he be a stalwart
man, honest-minded, with clever eye, cunning hand, ready brain, broad back, and warm heart;
in want of a wife mayhap; a man that can earn his own bread and another's;--half a dozen others'
when the half dozen come?  Would not that be a good sort of lodger?  Such a question as that
too did flit, just flit, across the widow's sleepless mind.  But then she thought so much more
of the wolf! Wolves, she had taught herself to think, were more common than stalwart, honest-minded,
wife-desirous men.

"I wonder mother consented to take him," said Hetta, when they were in the little room together.

"And why shouldn't she?" said Susan.  "It will be a help."

"Yes, it will be a little help," said Hetta.  "But we have done very well hitherto without
winter lodgers."

"But uncle Bell said she was to."

"What is uncle Bell to us?" said Hetta, who had a spirit of her own. And she began to surmise
within herself whether Aaron Dunn would join the Baptist congregation, and whether Phineas
Beckard would approve of this new move.

"He is a very well-behaved young man at any rate," said Susan, "and he draws beautifully. 
Did you see those things he was doing?"

"He draws very well, I dare say," said Hetta, who regarded this as but a poor warranty for
good behaviour.  Hetta also had some fear of wolves--not for herself perhaps; but for her sister.

