"Give me a hug," he wound up by saying, "for blast me if you ain't a youngster after my own
heart!" And he fell to and embraced me heartily, kissing me on both cheeks, and shedding tears
plentifully; for he was three-parts drunk, and clearly looked upon me as a dead man.

And in that light I saw that the company present regarded me, my cousin's prowess being well
known by many duels which he had fought in the past; and though I had pretty well made up my
mind that I was to die, I suffered no small discouragement and chagrin from the compassionate
looks which were cast upon me. My old enemy, Trickster Tim, also thought this a safe occasion
to insult me, coming up close before me and peering into my face, as if I were already so much
carrion. Nor had I the spirit to resent his insolence.

Captain Sims now led the way out of the house, holding Rupert by the arm, while I followed
with my friend. The rest of the crew swarmed out after us, but old Muzzy sharply ordered them
back, taking only two men to pull the oars, for we had a long way to row before the buoy could
be reached.

It was a miserable voyage for me, sitting there in the stern, not three paces from Rupert,
shivering in the cold night air, and perhaps from fear as well, as we dropped slowly down the
river, past the black piles of the landing jetties and the sleeping ships. Our course was lit
only by the stars, save where a ship's light cast a sickly gleam upon the water as we approached
it, and faded away as we rowed on. The whole way I never once opened my lips, but the others
talked together in low voices, turning themselves away from me in the same manner as if I were
a convict being led to execution. And as for my own thoughts, they were distracted enough,
especially when I called to mind my dear mother and my good and upright father, and how little
they imagined the business in which I was now engaged. These reflections so softened me that
I believe if my cousin had made the least move towards a reconcilement my whole wrath would
have melted away. But no doubt he had made up his mind that only my death could restore his
authority amongst the ruffians whom he led.

At last our dreary passage was ended, and we were arrived at the place agreed on for the encounter.
We had towed down a smaller boat in our wake, and this they now fastened to the buoy, and we
stepped into it, Rupert at the bows and I at the stern. Then the boatswain gripped my hand
for the last time, whispering to me to beware of Gurney's upper-cut, and so they bade us farewell
and rowed off quickly in the darkness, like men who would avoid the sight of a murder.

So there were we, left alone in that frail compartment, out there upon the heaving water, with
nothing but death in our hearts. I had but time to breathe a prayer, which I did with some
misgiving as to how it would be received, when my cousin drew his cutlass and stepped into
the centre of the boat. I rose to meet him with my weapon in my hand, and we stood there facing
one another, with only the width of the seat between us.

"Are you ready?" says Rupert quickly. And before I had time to answer he brought down his cutlass
with such force that unless I had guarded it the blade would have split open my head.

It was now that I had reason to be thankful for the lessons I had received at the hands of
the boatswain, for Rupert's blows came so thick and fast that I had all I could do to parry
them. I bore his last caution to me in mind, and soon found the importance of it, for though
my cousin made many feints at my shoulder and other parts of my body, yet the only blow into
which he put his real force was the upper-cut at my head.

