Note 60, page 216: "Jerked" meat is another genuinely scout institution, and has been well
known to Indians and trappers and hunters in the West since early times. The air of the Western
plains and mountains is very dry and pure. Venison or bear-meat or beef, when raw may be cut
into strips two fingers wide, a half or three quarters of an inch thick, and six or seven inches
long, and hung up in the sun. In about three days it is hard and leathery, and may be carried
about until eaten. It may be eaten by chewing at it as it is, or it may be fried. Scouts will
find that, while traveling, a couple of slices of this jerked meat, chewed and swallowed, keeps
up the strength finely.

When a camp is in a hurry, the meat may be strung over a slow fire, to make it dry faster;
and it may be cured faster yet by smoking, as the Elks cured it. Some persons use salt; and
if they have time they sprinkle the pile of strips, when fresh, with salt, and fold them in
the animal's green hide, to pickle and sweat for twenty-four hours. But salt is not needed;
and of course the Indians and the old-time scout trappers never had salt. Trappers sometimes
used a sprinkle of gunpowder for salt; and that is an army makeshift, too.

After a buffalo hunt the Indian villages were all festooned with jerked meat, strung on scaffolds
and among the teepees. Traders and emigrants jerked the meat by stringing it along the outside
of their wagons and drying it while on the move.

Note 61, page 217: This is the Indian and trapper method of dressing skins, and is easy for
any Scout of to-day. The skin is stretched, hair side down, between pegs, or over a smooth
bowlder or log, while it is fresh or green, and with a knife or bone, not too sharp, is scraped
until the mucus-like thin inner coating is scraped away. This is called "graining." In the
old-time scout's lodge or camp there always was a "graining block"--a smooth stump or log set
up for the pelts to fit over while being scraped. Do not scrape so deep as to cut the roots
of the hair. Next the pelt is dried. Then it is covered with a mixture of the brains and pure
water, and soaked, and it is rubbed and worked with both hands until the brains have been rubbed
in and until the skin is rubbed dry and soft. Next it is laid over a willow frame, or hung
up, open, and smoked for twelve hours or so. Now it is soft and unchangeable, forever.

When white clay or gypsum was near, the Indians would mix that with water until the fluid was
the color of milk and four times as thick. Before the skin was smoked it was smeared plentifully
with this, and allowed to dry. Then it was rubbed a long time, until it was soft and flexible
and the clay had all been rubbed away. This took out the stains and made the skin white.

Note 62, page 222: Aluminum is not dangerous to cook in. Tin sometimes unites with acids in
foods, or in certain liquids, and gives off a poison. Tin also rusts, but aluminum does not.
And aluminum is much the lighter in weight, and is a better heat conductor, therefore cooking
quicker.

Note 63, page 223: "Levez!" is what the old-time scouts-trappers ought to have said. It is
the French for "Rise! Get up!" But some trappers said "Leve! Leve!" and some called "Lave!"
thinking that they were using the Spanish verb "Lavar," meaning to wash.

CHAPTER XIX

