The old man and the little boy, his grandson, sat together in the shade of the big walnut tree
in the front yard, watching the "Decoration Day Parade," as it passed up the long street; and
when the last of the veterans was out of sight the grandfather murmured the words of the tune
that came drifting back from the now distant band at the head of the procession.

"Yes, we'll all feel gay when Johnnie comes marching home again," he finished, with a musing
chuckle.

"Did you, Grandpa?" the boy asked.

"Did I what?"

"Did you all feel gay when the army got home?"

"It didn't get home all at once, precisely," the grandfather explained. "When the war was over
I suppose we felt relieved, more than anything else."

"You didn't feel so gay when the war was, though, I guess!" the boy ventured.

"I guess we didn't."

"Were you scared, Grandpa? Were you ever scared the Rebels would win?"

"No. We weren't ever afraid of that."

"Not any at all?"

"No. Not any at all."

"Well, weren't you ever scared yourself, Grandpa? I mean when you were in a battle."

"Oh, yes; then I was." The old man laughed. "Scared plenty!"

"I don't see why," the boy said promptly. "I wouldn't be scared in a battle."

"Wouldn't you?"

"'Course not! Grandpa, why don't you march in the Decoration Day Parade? Wouldn't they let you?"

"I'm not able to march any more. Too short of breath and too shaky in the legs and too blind."

"I wouldn't care," said the boy. "I'd be in the parade anyway, if I was you. They had some
sittin' in carriages, 'way at the tail end; but I wouldn't like that. If I'd been in your place,
Grandpa, and they'd let me be in that parade, I'd been right up by the band. Look, Grandpa!
Watch me, Grandpa! This is the way I'd be, Grandpa."

He rose from the garden bench where they sat, and gave a complex imitation of what had most
appealed to him as the grandeurs of the procession, his prancing legs simulating those of the
horse of the grand marshal, while his upper parts rendered the drums and bugles of the band,
as well as the officers and privates of the militia company which had been a feature of the
parade. The only thing he left out was the detachment of veterans.

"Putty-boom! Putty-boom! Putty-boom-boom-boom!" he vociferated, as the drums--and then as the
bugles: "Ta, ta, ra, tara!" He addressed his restive legs: "Whoa, there, you Whitey! Gee! Haw!
Git up!" Then, waving an imaginary sword: "Col-lumn right! Farwud March! Halt! Carry harms!"
He "carried arms." "Show-dler harms!" He "shouldered arms," and returned to his seat.

"That'd be me, Grandpa. That's the way I'd do." And as the grandfather nodded, seeming to agree,
a thought recently dismissed returned to the mind of the composite procession and he asked:

"Well, why weren't you ever afraid the Rebels would whip the Unions, Grandpa?"

"Oh, we knew they couldn't."

"I guess so." The little boy laughed disdainfully, thinking his question satisfactorily answered.
"I guess those ole Rebels couldn't whipped a flea! They didn't know how to fight any at all,
did they, Grandpa?"

"Oh, yes, they did!"

"What?" The boy was astounded. "Weren't they all just reg'lar ole cowards, Grandpa?"

"No," said the grandfather. "They were pretty fine soldiers."

"They were? Well, they ran away whenever you began shootin' at 'em, didn't they?"

"Sometimes they did, but most times they didn't. Sometimes they fought like wildcats--and sometimes
we were the ones that ran away."

"What for?"

"To keep from getting killed, or maybe to keep from getting captured."

"But the Rebels were bad men, weren't they, Grandpa?"

"No."

The boy's forehead, customarily vacant, showed some little vertical shadows, produced by a
struggle to think. "Well, but--" he began, slowly. "Listen, Grandpa, listen here!"

"Well?"

"Listen! Well, you said--you said you never got scared the ole Rebels were goin' to win."

"They did win pretty often," said the grandfather. "They won a good many battles."

"I mean, you said you never got scared they'd win the war."

"No, we were never afraid of that."

"Well, but if they were good men and fought like wildcats, Grandpa, and kep' winning battles
and everything, how could that be? How could you help bein' scared they'd win the war?"

The grandfather's feeble eyes twinkled brightly. "Why, we knew they couldn't, Ramsey."

At this, the little vertical shadows on Ramsey's forehead became more pronounced, for he had
succeeded in thinking. "Well, they didn't know they couldn't, did they?" he argued. "They thought
they were goin' to win, didn't they?"

"Yes, I guess they did. Up till toward the last, I suppose they probably did. But you see they
were wrong."

"Well, but--" Ramsey struggled. "Listen! Listen here, Grandpa! Well, anyway, if they never
got scared we'd win, and nobody got scared they'd win--well, I don't see--"

"You don't see what?"

But Ramsey found himself unable to continue his concentration; he slumped down upon the small
of his back, and his brow relaxed to its more comfortable placidity, while his eyes wandered
with a new butterfly fluttering over the irises that bordered the iron picket fence at the
south side of the yard. "Oh, nothin' much," he murmured.

"I see." And his grandfather laughed again. "You mean: If the Rebels felt just as sure of winning
the war as we did, and kept winning battles why shouldn't we ever have had any doubts that
we were going to win? That's it, isn't it?"

"I guess so, Grandpa."

"Well, I think it was mostly because we were certain that we were right."

"I see," said Ramsey. "The Rebels knew they were on the side of the Devil." But at this, the
grandfather's laugh was louder than it had been before, and Ramsey looked hurt. "Well, you
can laugh if you want to!" he objected in an aggrieved voice. "Anyway, the Sunday-school sup'intendent
told us when people knew they were on the Devil's side they always--"

"I dare say, I dare say," the old man interrupted, a little impatiently. "But in this world
mighty few people think they're on the Devil's side, Ramsey. There was a Frenchman once, in
olden times; he said people were crazy because, though they couldn't even make worms, they
believed they could make gods. And so whenever countries or parts of a country get into a war,
each side makes a god and a devil, and says: 'God's on our side and the Devil's on the other.'
The South thought the Devil was on our side, you see."

"Well, that kind o' mixes it all up more'n ever."

"Yes, it seems so; but Abraham Lincoln wasn't mixed up about it. When some people told him
that God was on our side, he said the important thing was to find out if we were on God's side.
That was the whole question, you see; because either side could make up a god, the kind of
a god they liked and wanted; and then they'd believe in him, too, and fight for him--but if
he was only a made-up god they'd lose. President Lincoln didn't want to have a made-up god
on his side; he wanted to find God Himself and find out what he wanted, and then do it. And
that's what Lincoln did."

"Well, I don't understand much of all that!"

"No? Then suppose you look at it this way: The South was fighting for what it believed to be
its rights, but we weren't fighting for our rights; we were fighting for the right. The South
was fighting for what it believed to be its right to split the Union and be a country by itself;
but we were fighting for 'Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable.' It wasn't
only the Union we fought for; it was Freedom. The South wanted freedom to leave the Union;
but the reason the South wanted that freedom to separate from us was because we wanted the
Freedom of Man. There's the reason we had the certain knowledge that we were going to win the
war. How plain and simple it is!"

Ramsey didn't think so. He had begun to feel bored by the conversation, and to undergo the
oppression he usually suffered in school; yet he took a little interest in the inexplicable
increase of fervour with which his grandfather spoke, and in a shoot of sunshine which somehow
got through the foliage of the walnut tree and made a bedazzlement of glinting fine lines in
one spot, about the size of a saucer, upon the old man's head of thick white hair. Half closing
his eyes, drowsily, Ramsey played that this sunshine spot was a white bird's-next and, and
he had a momentary half dream of a glittering little bird that dwelt there and wore a blue
soldier cap on its head. The earnest old voice of the veteran was only a sound in the boy's ears.

"Yes, it's simple and plain enough now, though then we didn't often think of it in exactly
this way, but just went on fighting and never doubted. We knew the struggle and suffering of
our fathers and grandfathers to make a great country here for Freedom, and we knew that all
this wasn't just the whim of a foolish god, willing to waste such great things--we knew that
such a country couldn't have been building up just to be wasted. But, more than that, we knew
that armies fighting for the Freedom of Man had to win, in the long run, over armies that fought
for what they considered their rights.

"We didn't set out to free the slaves, so far as we knew. Yet our being against slavery was
what made the war, and we had the consciousness that we were on the side of God's plan, because
His plan is clearly the Freedom of Man. Long ago we began to see the hints of His plan--a little
like the way you can see what's coming in August from what happens in April, but man has to
win his freedom from himself--men in the light have to fight against men in the dark of their
own shadow. That light is the answer; we had the light that made us never doubt. Ours was the
true light, and so we--"

"Boom--" The veterans had begun to fire their cannon on the crest of the low hill, out at the
cemetery; and from a little way down the street came the rat-a-tat of a toy drum and sounds
of a fife played execrably. A file of children in cocked hats made of newspapers came marching
importantly up the sidewalk under the maple shade trees; and in advance, upon a velocipede,
rode a tin-sworded personage, shrieking incessant commands but not concerning himself with
whether or not any military obedience was thereby obtained. Here was a revivifying effect upon
young Ramsey; his sluggard eyelids opened electrically; he leaped to his feet and, abandoning
his grandfather without preface or apology, sped across the lawn and out of the gate, charging
headlong upon the commander of the company.

"You get off that 'locipede, Wesley Bender!" he bellowed. "You gimme that sword! What rights
you got to go bein' captain o' my army, I'd like to know! Who got up this army, in the first
place, I'd like to know! I did, myself yesterd'y afternoon, and you get back in line or I won't
let you b'long to it at all!"

The pretender succumbed; he instantly dismounted, being out-shouted and overawed. On foot he
took his place in the ranks, while Ramsey became sternly vociferous. "In-tention, company!
Farwud march! Col-lumn right! Right-showdler harms! Halt! Far-wud march. Carry harms--"

The Army went trudging away under the continuous but unheed fire of orders, and presently disappeared
round a corner, leaving the veteran chuckling feebly under his walnut tree and alone with the
empty street. All trace of what he had said seemed to have been wiped from the grandson's mind;
but memory has curious ways. Ramsey had understood not a fifth nor a tenth of his grandfather's
talk, and already he had "forgotten" all of it--yet not only were there many, many times in
the boy's later life when, without ascertainable cause, he would remember the sunlight falling
upon the old man's white head, to make that semblance of a glittering bird's-nest there, but
with the picture came recollections of words and sentences spoken by the grandfather, though
the listener, half-drowsily, had heard but the sound of an old, earnest voice--and even the
veteran's meaning finally took on a greater definiteness till it became, in the grandson's
thoughts, something clear and bright and beautiful that he knew without being just sure where
or how he had learned it.

Chapter II

Ramsey Milholland sat miserably in school, his conscious being consisting principally of a
dull hate. Torpor was a little dispersed during a fifteen-minute interval of "Music," when
he and all the other pupils in the large room of the "Five B. Grade" sang repeated fractions
of what they enunciated as "The Star Span-guh-hulled Banner"; but afterward he relapsed into
the low spirits and animosity natural to anybody during enforced confinement under instruction.
No alleviation was accomplished by an invader's temporary usurpation of the teacher's platform,
a brisk and unsympathetically cheerful young woman mounting thereon to "teach German."

For a long time mathematics and German had been about equally repulsive to Ramsey, who found
himself daily in the compulsory presence of both; but he was gradually coming to regard German
with the greater horror, because, after months of patient mental resistance, he at last began
to comprehend that the German language has sixteen special and particular ways of using the
German article corresponding to that flexible bit of a word so easily managed English--the.
What in the world was the use of having sixteen ways of doing a thing that could just as well
be done in one? If the Germans had contented themselves with insisting upon sixteen useless
variations for infrequent words, such as hippopotamus, for instance, Ramsey might have thought
the affair unreasonable but not necessarily vicious--it would be easy enough to avoid talking
about a hippopotamus if he ever had to go to Germany. But the fact that the Germans picked
out a and the and many other little words in use all the time, and gave every one of them sixteen
forms, and expected Ramsey Milholland to learn this dizzying uselessness down to the last crotchety
detail, with "When to employ Which" as a nausea to prepare for the final convulsion when one
didn't use Which, because it was an "Exception"--there was a fashion of making easy matters
hard that was merely hellish.

The teacher was strict but enthusiastic; she told the children, over and over, that German
was a beautiful language, and her face always had a glow when she said this. At such times
the children looked patient; they supposed it must be so, because she was an adult and their
teacher; and they believed her with the same manner of believing which those of them who went
to Sunday-school used there when the Sunday-school teachers were pushed into explanations of
various matters set forth in the Old Testament, or gave reckless descriptions of heaven. That
is to say, the children did not challenge or deny; already they had been driven into habits
of resignation and were passing out of the age when childhood is able to reject adult nonsense.

Thus, to Ramsey Milholland, the German language seemed to be a collection of perverse inventions
for undeserved torment; it was full of revolting surprises in the way of genders; vocally it
often necessitated the employment of noises suggestive of an incompletely mastered knowledge
of etiquette; and far inside him there was something faintly but constantly antagonistic to
it--yet, when the teacher declared that German was incomparably the most beautiful language
in the world, one of the many facets of his mind submissively absorbed the statement as light
to be passed inward; it was part of the lesson to be learned. He did not know whether the English
language was beautiful or not; he never thought about that, and no one ever said anything to
him about it. Moreover, though his deeper inward hated "German," he liked his German teacher,
and it was pleasant to look at her when that glow came upon her face.

Sometimes, too, there were moments of relaxation in her class, when she would stop the lesson
and tell the children about Germany: what a beautiful, good country it was, so trim and orderly,
with such pleasant customs, and all the people sensible and energetic and healthy. There was
"Music" again in the German class, which was another alleviation; though it was the same old
"Star Spangled Banner" over again. Ramsey was tired of the song and tired of "My Country 'Tis
of Thee"; they were bores, but it was amusing to sing them in German. In German they sounded
"sort o' funny," so he didn't mind this bit of the day's work.

Half an hour later there arrived his supreme trial of this particular morning. Arithmetic then
being the order of business before the house, he was sent alone to the blackboard, supposedly
to make lucid the proper reply to a fatal conundrum in decimals, and under the glare and focus
of the whole room he breathed heavily and itched everywhere; his brain at once became sheer
hash. He consumed as much time as possible in getting the terms of the problem stated in chalk;
then, affecting to be critical of his own handiwork, erased what he had done and carefully
wrote it again. After that, he erased half of it, slowly retraced the figures, and stepped
back as if to see whether perspective improved their appearance. Again he lifted the eraser.

"Ramsey Milholland!"

"Ma'am?"

"Put down that eraser!"

"Yes'm. I just thought--"

Sharply bidden to get forward with his task, he explained in a feeble voice that he had first
to tie a shoe string and stooped to do so, but was not permitted. Miss Ridgely tried to stimulate
him with hints and suggestion; found him, so far as decimals went, mere protoplasm, and, wondering
how so helpless a thing could live, summoned to the board little Dora Yocum, the star of the
class, whereupon Ramsey moved toward his seat.

"Stand still, Ramsey! You stay right where you are and try to learn something from the way
Dora does it."

The class giggled, and Ramsey stood, but learned nothing. His conspicuousness was unendurable,
because all of his schoolmates naturally found more entertainment in watching him than in following
the performance of the capable Dora. He put his hands in and out of his pockets; was bidden
to hold them still, also not to shuffle his feet; and when in a false assumption of ease he
would have scratched his head Miss Ridgely's severity increased, so that he was compelled to
give over the attempt.

Instructed to watch every figure chalked up by the mathematical wonder, his eyes, grown sodden,
were unable to remove themselves from the part in her hair at the back of her head, where two
little braids began their separate careers to end in a couple of blue-and-red checked bits
of ribbon, one upon each of her thin shoulder blades. He was conscious that the part in Dora's
shining brown hair was odious, but he was unconscious of anything arithmetical. His sensations
clogged his intellect; he suffered from unsought notoriety, and hated Dora Yocum; most of all
he hated her busy little shoulder blades.

He had to be "kept in" after school; and when he was allowed to go home he averted his eyes
as he went by the house where Dora lived. She was out in the yard, eating a doughnut, and he
knew it; but he had passed the age when it is just as permissible to throw a rock at a girl
as at a boy; and stifling his normal inclinations, he walked sturdily on, though he indulged
himself so far as to engage in a murmured conversation with one of the familiar spirits dwelling
somewhere within him. "Pfa!" said Ramsey to himself--or himself to Ramsey, since it is difficult
to say which was which. "Pfa! Thinks she's smart, don't she?"... "Well, I guess she does, but
she ain't!" ... "I hate her, don't you?"... "You bet your life I hate her!"... "Teacher's Pet,
that's what I call her!"... "Well, that's what I call her, too, don't I?" "Well, I do; that's
all she is, anyway--dirty ole Teacher's Pet!"

Chapter III

He had not forgiven her four years later when he entered high school in her company, for somehow
Ramsey managed to shovel his way through examinations and stayed with the class. By this time
he had a long accumulation of reasons for hating her: Dora's persistent and increasing competency
was not short of flamboyant, and teachers naturally got the habit of flinging their quickest
pupil in the face of their slowest and "dumbest." Nevertheless, Ramsey was unable to deny that
she had become less awful lookin' than she used to be. At least, he was honest enough to make
a partial retraction when his friend and classmate, Fred Mitchell, insisted that an amelioration
of Dora's appearance could be actually proven.

"Well, I'll take it back. I don't claim she's every last bit as awful lookin' as she always
has been," said Ramsey, toward the conclusion of the argument. "I'll say this for her, she's
awful lookin', but she may not be as awful lookin' as she was. She don't come to school with
the edge of some of her underclo'es showin' below her dress any more, about every other day,
and her eyewinkers have got to stickin' out some, and she may not be so abbasalootly skinny,
but she'll haf to wait a mighty long while before I want to look at her without gettin' sick!"

The implication that Miss Yocum cared to have Ramsey look at her, either with or without gettin'
sick, was mere rhetoric, and recognized as such by the producer of it; she had never given
the slightest evidence of any desire that his gaze be bent upon her. What truth lay underneath
his flourish rested upon the fact that he could not look at her without some symptoms of the
sort he had tersely sketched to his friend; and yet, so pungent is the fascination of self-inflicted
misery, he did look at her, during periods of study, often for three or four minutes at a stretch.
His expression at such times indeed resembled that of one who has dined unwisely; but Dora
Yocum was always too eagerly busy to notice it. He was almost never in her eye, but she was
continually in his; moreover, as the banner pupil she was with hourly frequency an exhibit
before the whole class.

Ramsey found her worst of all when her turn came in "Declamation," on Friday afternoons. When
she ascended the platform, bobbed a little preliminary bow and began, "Listen, my children,
and you shall hear," Ramsey included Paul Revere and the Old North Church and the whole Revolutionary
War in his antipathy, since they somehow appeared to be the property of the Teacher's Pet.

Ramsey himself was in the same section of declaimers, and performed next--a ghastly contrast.
He gave a "selection from Shakespeare," assigned by the teacher; and he began this continuous
misfortune by stumbling violently as he ascended the platform, which stimulated a general giggle
already in being at the mere calling of his name. All of the class were bright with happy anticipation,
for the miserable Ramsey seldom failed their hopes, particularly in "Declamation." He faced
them, his complexion wan, his expression both baleful and horrified; and he began in a loud,
hurried voice, from which every hint of intelligence was excluded:

"Most pottent, grave, and rev--"

The teacher tapped sharply on her desk, and stopped him. "You've forgotten to bow," she said.
"And don't say 'pottent.' The word is 'potent'."

Ramsey flopped his head at the rear wall of the room, and began again:

"Most pottent potent gray and revenerd signers my very nobe and approve good masters that I
have tan away this sole man's dutter it is mose true true I have marry dur the very headman
frun tuv my fending hath this extent no more rude am I in speech--in speech--rude am I in speech--in
speech--in speech--in speech--"

He had stalled. Perhaps the fatal truth of that phrase, and some sense of its applicability
to the occasion had interfered with the mechanism which he had set in operation to get rid
of the "recitation" for him. At all events, the machine had to run off its job all at once,
or it wouldn't run at all. Stopped, it stayed stopped, and backing off granted no new impetus,
though he tried, again and again. "Hath this extent no more rude am I in speech--" He gulped
audibly. "Rude rude rude am I--rude am I in speech--in speech--in speech. Rude am I in speech--"

"Yes," the irritated teacher said, as Ramsey's failing voice continued huskily to insist upon
this point. "I think you are!" And her nerves were a little soothed by the shout of laughter
from the school--it was never difficult for teachers to be witty. "Go sit down, Ramsey, and
do it after school."

His ears roaring, the unfortunate went to his seat, and, among all the hilarious faces, one
stood out--Dora Yocum's. Her laughter was precocious; it was that of a confirmed superior,
insufferably adult--she was laughing at him as a grown person laughs at a child. Conspicuously
and unmistakably, there was something indulgent in her amusement. He choked. Here was a little
squirt of a high-school girl who would trot up to George Washington himself and show off around
him, given the opportunity; and George Washington would probably pat her on the head, or give
her a medal--or something. Well, let him! Ramsey didn't care. He didn't care for George Washington,
or Paul Revere, or Shakespeare, or any of 'em. They could all go to the dickens with Dora Yocum.
They were all a lot of smarties anyway and he hated the whole stew of 'em!

There was one, however, whom he somehow couldn't manage to hate, even though this one officially
seemed to be as intimately associated with Dora Yocum and superiority as the others were. Ramsey
couldn't hate Abraham Lincoln, even when Dora was chosen to deliver the "Gettysburg Address"
on the twelfth of February. Vaguely, yet reassuringly, Ramsey felt that Lincoln had resisted
adoption by the intellectuals. Lincoln had said "Government of the people, by the people, for
the people," and that didn't mean government by the teacher and the Teacher's Pet and Paul
Revere and Shakespeare and suchlike; it meant government by everybody, and therefore Ramsey
had as much to do with it as anybody else had. This was friendly; and he believed that if Abraham
Lincoln could have walked into the schoolroom, Lincoln would have been as friendly with him
as with Dora and the teacher herself. Beyond a doubt, Dora and the teacher thought Lincoln
belonged to them and their crowd of exclusives; they seemed to think they owned the whole United
States; but Ramsey was sure they were mistaken about Abraham Lincoln.

He felt that it was just like this little Yocum snippet to assume such a thing, and it made
him sicker than ever to look at her.

Then, one day, he noticed that her eye-winkers were stickin' out farther and farther.

Chapter IV

His discovery irritated him the more. Next thing, this ole Teacher's Pet would do she'd get
to thinkin' she was pretty! If that happened, well, nobody could stand her! The long lashes
made her eyes shadowy, and it was a fact that her shoulder blades ceased to insist upon notoriety;
you couldn't tell where they were at all, any more. Her back seemed to be just a regular back,
not made up of a lot of implements like shoulder blades and things.

A contemptible thing happened. Wesley Bender was well known to be the most untidy boy in the
class and had never shown any remorse for his reputation or made the slightest effort either
to improve or to dispute it. He was content: it failed to lower his standing with his fellows
or to impress them unfavourably. In fact, he was treated as one who has attained a slight distinction.
At least, he owned one superlative, no matter what its quality, and it lifted him out of the
commonplace. It helped him to become better known, and boys liked to be seen with him. But
one day, there was a rearrangement of the seating in the schoolroom: Wesley Bender was given
a desk next in front of Dora Yocum's; and within a week the whole room knew that Wesley had
begun voluntarily to wash his neck--the back of it, anyhow.

This was at the bottom of the fight between Ramsey Milholland and Wesley Bender, and the diplomatic
exchanges immediately preceding hostilities were charmingly frank and unhyprocitical, although
quite as mixed-up and off-the-issue as if they had been prepared by professional foreign office
men. Ramsey and Fred Mitchell and four other boys waylaid young Bender on the street after
school, intending jocosities rather than violence, but the victim proved sensitive. "You take
your ole hands off o' me!" he said fiercely, as they began to push him about among them.

"Ole dirty Wes!" they hoarsely bellowed and squawked, in their changing voices. "Washes his
ears!"... "Washes his neck!"... "Dora Yocum told his mama to turn the hose on him!"... "Yay-ho!
Ole dirty Wes tryin to be a duke!"

Wesley broke from them and backed away, swinging his strapped books in a dangerous circle.
"You keep off!" he warned them. "I got as much right to my pers'nal appearance as anybody!"

This richly fed their humour, and they rioted round him, keeping outside the swinging books
at the end of the strap. "Pers'nal appearance!"... "Who went and bought it for you, Wes?"...
"Nobody bought it for him. Dora Yocum took and give him one!"

"You leave ladies' names alone!" cried the chivalrous Wesley. "You ought to know better, on
the public street, you--pups!"

Here was a serious affront, at least to Ramsey Milholland's way of thinking; for Ramsey, also,
now proved sensitive. He quoted his friends--"Shut up!"--and advanced toward Wesley. "You look
here! Who you callin' 'pups'?"

"Everybody!" Wesley hotly returned. "Everybody that hasn't got any more decency than to go
around mentioning ladies' names on the public streets. Everybody that goes around mentioning
ladies' names on the public streets are pups!"

"They are, are they?" Ramsey as hotly demanded. "Well, you just look here a minute; my own
father mentions my mother's name on the public streets whenever he wants to, and you just try
callin' my father a pup, and you won't know what happened to you!"

"What'll you do about it?"

"I'll put a new head on you," said Ramsey. "That's what I'll do, because anybody that calls
my father or mother a pup--"

"Oh, shut up! I wasn't talking about your ole father and mother. I said everybody that mentioned
Dora Yocum's name on the public streets was a pup, and I mean it! Everybody that mentions Dora
Yocum's name on the pub--"

"Dora Yocum!" said Ramsey. "I got a perfect right to say it anywhere I want to. Dora Yocum,
Dora Yocum, Dora Yocum!--"

"All right, then you're a pup!"

Ramsey charged upon him and received a suffocating blow full in the face, not from Mr. Bender's
fist but from the solid bundle of books at the end of the strap. Ramsey saw eight or ten objectives
instantly: there were Wesley Benders standing full length in the air on top of other Wesley
Benders, and more Wesley Benders zigzagged out sideways from still other Wesley Benders; nevertheless,
he found one of these and it proved to be flesh. He engaged it wildly at fisticuffs; pounded
it upon the countenance and drove it away. Then he sat down upon the curbstone, and, with his
dizzy eyes shut, leaned forward for the better accommodation of his ensanguined nose.

Wesley had retreated to the other side of the street holding a grimy handkerchief to the midmost
parts of his pallid face. "There, you ole damn pup!" he shouted, in a voice which threatened
to sob. "I guess that'll teach you to be careful how you mention Dora Yocum's name on the public
streets!"

At this, Ramsey made a motion as if to rise and pursue, whereupon Wesley fled, wailing back
over his shoulder as he ran, "You wait till I ketch you out alone on the public streets and I'll--"

His voice was lost in an outburst of hooting from his former friends, who sympathetically surrounded
the wounded Ramsey. But in a measure, at least, the chivalrous fugitive had won his point.
He was routed and outdone, yet what survived the day was a rumour, which became a sort of tenuous
legend among those interested. There had been a fight over Dora Yocum, it appeared, and Ramsey
Milholland had attempted to maintain something derogatory to the lady, while Wesley defended
her as a knightly youth should. The something derogatory was left vague; nobody attempted to
say just what it was, and the effects of the legend divided the schoolroom strictly according
to gender.

The boys, unmindful of proper gallantry, supported Ramsey on account of the way he had persisted
in lickin' the stuffin' out of Wesley Bender after receiving that preliminary wallop from Wesley's
blackjack bundle of books. The girls petted and championed Wesley; they talked outrageously
of his conqueror, fiercely declaring that he ought to be arrested; and for weeks they maintained
a new manner toward him. They kept their facial expressions hostile, but perhaps this was more
for one another's benefit than for Ramsey's; and several of them went so far out of their way
to find even private opportunities for reproving him that an alert observer might have suspected
them to have been less indignant than they seemed--but not Ramsey. He thought they all hated
him, and said he was glad of it.

Dora was a non-partisan. The little prig was so diligent at her books she gave never the slightest
sign of comprehending that there had been a fight about her. Having no real cognizance of Messrs.
Bender and Milholland except as impediments to the advance of learning, she did not even look
demure.

Chapter V

With Wesley Bender, Ramsey was again upon fair terms before the winter had run its course;
the two were neighbours and, moreover, were drawn together by a community of interests which
made their reconciliation a necessity. Ramsey played the guitar and Wesley played the mandolin.

All ill feeling between them died with the first duet of spring, yet the twinkling they made
had no charm to soothe the savage breast of Ramsey whenever the Teacher's Pet came into his
thoughts. He daydreamed a thousand ways of putting her in her place, but was unable to carry
out any of them, and had but a cobwebby satisfaction in imagining discomfitures for her which
remained imaginary. With a yearning so poignant that it hurt, he yearned and yearned to show
her what she really was. "Just once!" he said to Fred Mitchell. "That's all I ask, just once.
Just gimme one chance to show that girl what she really is. I guess if I ever get the chance
she'll find out what's the matter with her, for once in her life, anyway!" Thus it came to
be talked about and understood and expected in Ramsey's circle, all male, that Dora Yocum's
day was coming. The nature of the disaster was left vague, but there was no doubt in the world
that retribution merely awaited its ideal opportunity. "You'll see!" said Ramsey. "The time'll
come when that ole girl'll wish she'd moved o' this town before she ever got appointed monitor
of our class! Just you wait!"

They waited, but conditions appeared to remain unfavourable indefinitely. Perhaps the great
opportunity might have arrived if Ramsey had been able to achieve a startling importance in
any of the "various divergent yet parallel lines of school endeavour"--one of the phrases by
means of which teachers and principal clogged the minds of their unarmed auditors. But though
he was far from being the dumb driven beast of misfortune that he seemed in the schoolroom,
and, in fact, lived a double life, exhibiting in his out-of-school hours a remarkable example
of "secondary personality"--a creature fearing nothing and capable of laughter; blue-eyed,
fairly robust, and anything but dumb--he was nevertheless without endowment or attainment great
enough to get him distinction.

He "tried for" the high-school eleven, and "tried for" the nine, but the experts were not long
in eliminating him from either of these competitions, and he had to content himself with cheering
instead of getting cheered. He was by no manner of means athlete enough, or enough of anything
else, to put Dora Yocum in her place, and so he and the great opportunity were still waiting
in May, at the end of the second year of high school, when the class, now the "10 A," reverted
to an old fashion and decided to entertain itself with a woodland picnic.

They gathered upon the sandy banks of a creek, in the blue shade of big, patchy-barked sycamores,
with a dancing sky on top of everything and gold dust atwinkle over the water. Hither the napkin-covered
baskets were brought from the wagons and assembled in the shade, where they appeared as an
attractive little meadow of white napery, and gave both surprise and pleasure to communities
of ants and to other original settlers of the neighbourhood.

From this nucleus or headquarters of the picnic, various expeditions set forth up and down
the creek and through the woods that bordered it. Camera work was constant; spring wild flowers
were accumulated by groups of girls who trooped through the woods with eager eyes searching
the thickets; two envied boy fishermen established themselves upon a bank up-stream, with hooks
and lines thoughtfully brought with them, and poles which they fashioned from young saplings.
They took mussels from the shallows, for bait, and having gone to all this trouble, declined
to share with friends less energetic and provident the perquisites and pleasures secured to
themselves.

Albert Paxton was another person who proved his enterprise. Having visited the spot some days
before, he had hired for his exclusive use throughout the duration of the picnic an old rowboat
belonging to a shanty squatter; it was the only rowboat within a mile or two and Albert had
his own uses for it. Albert was the class lover and, after first taking the three chaperon
teachers "out for a row," an excursion concluded in about ten minutes, he disembarked them;
Sadie Clews stepped into the boat, a pocket camera in one hand, a tennis racket in the other;
and the two spent the rest of the day, except for the luncheon interval, solemnly drifting
along the banks or grounded on a shoal. Now and then Albert would row a few strokes, and at
almost any time when the populated shore glanced toward them, Sadie would be seen photographing
Albert, or Albert would be seen photographing Sadie, but the tennis racket remained an enigma.
Oarsman and passenger appeared to have no conversation whatever--not once was either seen or
heard to address a remark to the other; and they looked as placid as their own upside-down
reflections in one of the still pools they slowly floated over. They were sixteen, and had
been "engaged" more than two years.

On the borders of the little meadow of baskets there had been deposited two black shapes, which
remained undisturbed throughout the day, a closed guitar case and a closed mandolin case, no
doubt containing each its proper instrument. So far as any use of these went they seemed to
be of the same leisure class to which Sadie's tennis racket belonged, for when one of the teachers
suggested music, the musicians proved shy. Wesley Bender said they hadn't learned to play anything
much and, besides, he had a couple o' broken strings he didn't know as he could fix up; and
Ramsey said he guessed it seemed kind o' too hot to play much. Joining friends, they organized
a contest in marksmanship, the target being a floating can which they assailed with pebbles;
and after that they "skipped" flat stones upon the surface of the water, then went to join
a group gathered about Willis Parker and Heinie Krusemeyer.

No fish had been caught, a lack of luck crossly attributed by the fishermen to the noise made
by constant advice on the part of their attendant gallery. Messrs. Milholland, Bender, and
the other rock throwers came up shouting, and were ill received.

"For heaven's sakes," Heinie Krusemeyer demanded, "can't you shut up? Here we just first got
the girls to keep their mouths shut a minute and I almost had a big pickerel or something on
my hook, and here you got to up and yell so he chases himself away! Why can't nobody show a
little sense sometimes when they ought to?"

"I should say so!" his comrade exclaimed. "If people would only just take and think of all
the trouble we been to, it seems funny somebody couldn't let us have half a chance to get a
few good fish. What chance they got to bite with a lot o' girls gabbin' away, and then, just
as we get 'em quieted down, all you men got to come bustin' up here yellin' your heads off.
A fish isn't goin' to bite when he can't even hear himself think! Anybody ought to know that much."

But the new arrivals hooted. "Fish!" Ramsey vociferated. "I'll bet a hundred dollars there
hasn't been even a minny in this creek for the last sixty years!"

"There is, too!" said Heinie, bitterly. "But I wouldn't be surprised there wouldn't be no longer
if you got to keep up this noise. If you'd shut up just a minute you could see yourself there's
fish here."

In whispers several of the tamed girls at once heartily corroborated this statement, whereupon
the newcomers ceased to gibe and consented to silence. Ramsey leaned forth over the edge of
the overhanging bank, a dirt precipice five feet above the water, and peered into the indeterminable
depths below. The pool had been stirred, partly by the inexpert pokings of the fishermen and
partly by small clods and bits of dirt dislodged from above by the feet of the audience. The
water, consequently, was but brownly translucent and revealed its secrets reluctantly; nevertheless
certain dim little shapes had been observed to move within it, and were still there. Ramsey
failed to see them at first.

"Where's any ole fish?" he inquired, scornfully.

"Oh, my goodness!" Heinie Krusemeyer moaned. "Can't you shut up?"

"Look!" whispered the girl who stood nearest to Ramsey. She pointed. "There's one. Right down
there by Willis's hook. Don't you see him?"

Ramsey was impressed enough to whisper. "Is there? I don't see him. I can't--"

The girl came closer to him, and, the better to show him, leaned out over the edge of the bank,
and, for safety in maintaining her balance, rested her left hand upon his shoulder while she
pointed with her right. Thereupon something happened to Ramsey. The touch upon his shoulder
was almost nothing, and he had never taken the slightest interest in Milla Rust (to whom that
small warm hand belonged), though she was the class beauty, and long established in the office. With
his relations, who consider Sommerset as their top branch, the start was in high favour, and all his
friends give a strong approval, accepting old To Prior. He had been the consulting friend and
a long companion of old Cloudesly forty years ago.

When the one began to brew beer and the other make cider. Tom's brewery had not paid him so
well as old Cloudesly's apples.

He had been the first to establish a business of that kind in Tattleton. There were three at
the time of election; but the towns people knew his reputation as a brewer, though he had become
a long silent partner, having saved enough for himself and his old wife to live on a cottage
covered with grapes vines at the end of a long green lane in which the main street of Tattleton
dwindled away. That
curl upon the shoulder nearest him was shot with dazzling fibres of sunshine. He seemed to
be trembling.

"I don't see it," he murmured, huskily, afraid that she might remove her hand. "I can't see
any fish, Milla."

She leaned farther out over the bank. "Why, there, goosie!" she whispered. "Right there."

"I can't see it."

She leaned still farther, bending down to point. "Why right th--"

At this moment she removed her hand from his shoulder, though unwillingly. She clutched at
him, in fact, but without avail. She had been too amiable.

A loud shriek was uttered by throats abler to vocalize, just then, than Milla's, for in her
great surprise she said nothing whatever--the shriek came from the other girls as Milla left
the crest of the overhanging bank and almost horizontally disappeared into the brown water.
There was a tumultuous splash, and then of Milla Rust and her well-known beautifulness there
was nothing visible in the superficial world, nor upon the surface of that creek. The vanishment
was total.

"Save her!"

Several girls afterward admitted having used this expression, and little Miss Floy Williams,
the youngest and smallest member of the class, was unable to deny that she had said, "Oh, God!"
Nothing could have been more natural, and the matter need not have been brought before her
with such insistence and frequency, during the two remaining years of her undergraduate career.

Ramsey was one of those who heard this exclamation, later so famous, and perhaps it was what
roused him to heroism. He dived from the bank, headlong, and the strange thought in his mind
was "I guess this'll show Dora Yocum!" He should have been thinking of Milla, of course, at
such a time, particularly after the little enchantment just laid upon him by Milla's touch
and Milla's curls; and he knew well enough that Miss Yocum was not among the spectators. She
was half a mile away, as it happened, gathering "botanical specimens" with one of the teachers--which
was her idea of what to do at a picnic!

Ramsey struck the water hard, and in the same instant struck something harder. Wesley Bender's
bundle of books had given him no such shock as he received now, and if the creek bottom had
not been of mud, just there, the top of his young head might have declined the strain. Half
stunned, choking, spluttering he somehow floundered to his feet; and when he could get his
eyes a little cleared of water he found himself wavering face to face with a blurred vision
of Milla Rust. She had risen up out of the pod and stood knee deep, like a lovely drenched
figure in a fountain.

Upon the bank above them, Willis Parker was jumping up and down, gesticulating and shouting
fiercely. "Now I guess you're satisfied our fishin' is spoilt! Whyn't you listen me? I told
you it wasn't more'n three feet deep! I and Heinie waded all over this creek gettin' our bait.
You're a pretty sight!"

Of Milla he spoke unwittingly the literal truth. Even with her hair thus wild and sodden, Milla
rose from immersion blushing and prettier than ever; and she was prettiest of all when she
stretched out her hand helplessly to Ramsey and he led her up out of the waters. They had plenty
of assistance to scramble to the top of the bank, and there Milla was surrounded and borne
away with a great clacketing and tumult. Ramsey gave his coat into the hands of friends, who
twisted the water out of it for him, while he sat upon the grass in the sun, rubbed his head,
and experimented with his neck to see if it would "work." The sunshine was strong and hot;
in half an hour he and his clothes were dry--or at least "dry enough," as he said, and except
for some soreness of head and neck, and the general crumpledness of his apparel, he seemed
to be in all ways much as usual when shouts and whistlings summoned all the party to luncheon
at the rendezvous. The change that made him different was invisible.

Chapter VI

The change in Ramsey was invisible, and yet something must have been seen, for everyone appeared
to take it for granted that he was to sit next to Milla at the pastoral meal. She herself understood
it, evidently, for she drew in her puckered skirts and without any words make a place for him
beside her as he driftingly approached her, affecting to whistle and keeping his eyes on the
foliage overhead. He still looked upward, even in the act of sitting down.

"Squirrel or something," he said, feebly, as if in explanation.

"Where?" Milla asked.

"Up there on a branch." He accepted a plate from her (she had provided herself with an extra
one), but he did not look at it or her. "I'm not just exactly sure it's a squirrel," he said.
"Kind of hard to make out exactly what it is." He continued to keep his eyes aloft, because
he imagined that all of the class were looking at him and Milla, and he felt unable to meet
such publicity. It was to him as if the whole United States had been scandalized to attention
by this act of his in going to sit beside Milla; he gazed upward so long that his eyeballs
became sensitive under the strain. He began to blink. "I can't make out whether it's a squirrel
or just some leaves that kind o' got fixed like one," he said. "I can't make out yet which
it is, but I guess when there's a breeze, if it's a squirrel he'll prob'ly hop around some
then, if he's alive or anything."

It had begun to seem that his eyes must remain fixed in that upward stare forever; he wanted
to bring them down, but could not face the glare of the world. So the fugitive ostrich is said
to bury his head in the sand; he does it, not believing himself thereby hidden but trying to
banish from his own cognizance terrible facts which his unsheltered eyes have seemed to reveal.
So, too, do nervous children seek to bury their eyes under pillows, and nervous statesmen theirs
under oratory. Ramsey's ostrichings can happen to anybody. But finally the brightness of the
sky between the leaves settled matters for him; he sneezed, wept, and for a little moment again
faced his fellowmen. No one was looking at him; everybody except Milla had other things to do.

Having sneezed involuntarily, he added a spell of coughing for which there was no necessity.
"I guess I must be wrong," he muttered thickly.

"What about, Ramsey?"

"About it bein' a squirrel." With infinite timidity he turned his head and encountered a gaze
so soft, so hallowed, that it disconcerted him, and he dropped a "drumstick" of fried chicken,
well dotted with ants, from his plate. Scarlet he picked it up, but did not eat it. For the
first time in his life he felt that eating fried chicken held in the fingers was not to be
thought of. He replaced the "drumstick" upon his plate and allowed it to remain there untouched,
in spite of a great hunger for it.

Having looked down, he now found difficulty in looking up, but gazed steadily at his plate,
and into this limited circle of vision came Milla's delicate and rosy fingers, bearing a gift.
"There," she said in a motherly little voice. "It's a tomato mayonnaise sandwich and I made
it myself. I want you to eat it, Ramsey."

His own fingers approached tremulousness as he accepted the thick sandwich from her and conveyed
it to his mouth. A moment later his soul filled with horror, for a spurt of mayonnaise dressing
had caused a catastrophe the scene of which occupied no inconsiderable area of his right cheek;
which was the cheek toward Milla. He groped wretchedly for his handkerchief but could not find
it; he had lost it. Sudden death would have been relief; he was sure that after such grotesquerie
Milla could never bear to have anything more to do with him; he was ruined.

In his anguish he felt a paper napkin pressed gently into his hand; a soft voice said in his
ear, "Wipe it off with this, Ramsey. Nobody's noticing."

So this incredibly charitable creature was still able to be his friend, even after seeing him
mayonnaised! Humbly marvelling, he did as she told him, but avoided all further risks. He ate
nothing more.

He sighed his first sigh of inexpressibleness, had a chill or so along the spine, and at intervals
his brow was bedewed.

Within his averted eyes there dwelt not the Milla Rust who sat beside him, but an iridescent,
fragile creature who had become angelic.

He spent the rest of the day dawdling helplessly about her; wherever she went he was near,
as near as possible, but of no deliberate volition of his own. Something seemed to tie him
to her, and Milla was nothing loth. He seldom looked at her directly, or for longer than an
instant, and more rarely still did he speak to her except as a reply. What few remarks he ventured
upon his own initiative nearly all concerned the landscape, which he commended repeatedly in
a weak voice, as "kind of pretty," though once he said he guessed there might be bugs in the
bark of a log on which they sat; and he became so immoderately personal as to declare that
if the bugs had to get on anybody he'd rather they got on him than on Milla. She said that
was "just perfectly lovely" of him, asked where he got his sweet nature, and in other ways
encouraged him to continue the revelation, but Ramsey was unable to get forward with it, though
he opened and closed his mouth a great many times in the effort to do so.

At five o'clock everybody was summoned again to the rendezvous for a ceremony preliminary to
departure: the class found itself in a large circle, standing, and sang "The Star Spangled
Banner." Ordinarily, on such an open-air and out-of-school occasion, Ramsey would have joined
the chorus uproariously with the utmost blatancy of which his vocal apparatus was capable;
and most of the other boys expressed their humour by drowning out the serious efforts of the
girls; but he sang feebly, not much more than humming through his teeth. Standing beside Milla,
he was incapable of his former inelegancies and his voice was in a semi-paralyzed condition,
like the rest of him.

Opposite him, across the circle, Dora Yocum stood a little in advance of those near her, for
of course she led the singing. Her clear and earnest voice was distinguishable from all others,
and though she did not glance toward Ramsey he had a queer feeling that she was assuming more
superiority than ever, and that she was icily scornful of him and Milla. The old resentment
rose--he'd "show" that girl yet, some day!

When the song was over, cheers were given for the class, "the good ole class of Nineteen Fourteen,"
the school, the teachers, and for the picnic, thus officially concluded; and then the picnickers,
carrying their baskets and faded wild flowers and other souvenirs and burdens, moved toward
the big "express wagons" which were to take them back into the town. Ramsey got his guitar
case, and turned to Milla.

"Well--" he said.

"Well what, Ramsey?"

"Well--g'bye."

"Why, no," said Milla. "Anyways not yet. You can go back in the same wagon with me. It's going
to stop at the school and let us out there, and then you could walk home with me if you felt
like it. You could come all the way to our gate with me, I expect, unless you'd be late home
for your supper."

"Well--well, I'd be perfectly willing," Ramsey said. "Only I heard we all had to go back in
whatever wagon we came out in, and I didn't come in the same wagon with you, so--"

Milla laughed and leaned toward him a little. "I already 'tended to that," she said confidentially.
"I asked Johnnie Fiske, that came out in my wagon, to go back in yours, so that makes room
for you."

"Well--then I guess I could do it." He moved toward the wagon with her. "I expect it don't
make much difference one way or the other."

"And you can carry my basket if you want to," she said, adding solicitously, "Unless it's too
heavy when you already got your guitar case to carry, Ramsey."

This thoughtfulness of hers almost overcame him; she seemed divine. He gulped, and emotion
made him even pinker than he had been under the mayonnaise.

"I--I'll be glad to carry the basket, too," he faltered. "It-it don't weigh anything much."

"Well, let's hurry, so's we can get places together."

Then, as she manoeuvred him through the little crowd about the wagon, with a soft push this
way and a gentle pull that, and hurried him up the improvised steps and found a place where
there was room for them to sit, Ramsey had another breathless sensation heretofore unknown
to him. He found himself taken under a dovelike protectorship; a wonderful, inexpressible Being
seemed to have become his proprietor.

"Isn't this just perfectly lovely?" she said cozily, close to his ear.

He swallowed, but found no words, for he had no thoughts; he was only an incoherent tumult.
This was his first love.

"Isn't it, Ramsey?" she urged. The cozy voice had just the hint of a reproach. "Don't you think
it's just perfectly lovely, Ramsey?"

"Yes'm."

Chapter VII

The next morning Ramsey came into his father's room while Mr. Milholland was shaving, an hour
before church time, and it became apparent that the son had someting on his mind, though for
a while he said nothing.

"Did you want anything, Ramsey?"

"Well--"

"Didn't want to borrow my razors?"

"No, sir."

Mr. Milholland chuckled. "I hardly supposed so, seriously! Shaving is a great nuisance and
the longer you keep away from it, the better. And when you do, you let my razors alone, young
feller!"

"Yes, sir." (Mr. Milholland's razors were safe, Ramsey had already achieved one of his own,
but he practised the art in secret.) He passed his hand thoughtfully over his cheeks, and traces
of white powder were left upon his fingers, whereupon he wiped his hand surreptitiously, and
stood irresolutely waiting.

"What is it you really want, Ramsey?"

"I guess I don't want anything."

"Money?"

"No, sir. You gay' me some Friday."

Mr. Milholland turned from his mirror and looked over the edge of a towel at his son. In the
boy's eyes there was such a dumb agony of interrogation that the father was a little startled.

"Why, what is it, Ramsey? Have you--" He paused, frowning and wondering. "You haven't been
getting into some mess you want to tell me about, have you?"

"No, sir."

His tone was meek, but a mute distress lurked within it, bringing to the father's mind disturbing
suspicions, and foreshadowings of indignation and of pity. "See here, Ramsey," he said, "if
there's anything you want to ask me, or to tell me, you'd better out with it and get it over.
Now, what is it?"

"Well--it isn't anything."

"Are you sure?"

Ramsey's eyes fell before the severe and piercing gaze of his father. "Yes, sir."

Mr. Milholland shook his head doubtfully; then, as his son walked slowly out of the room, he
turned to complete his toilet in a somewhat uneasy frame of mind. Ramsey had undoubtedly wanted
to say something to him and the boy's expression had shown that the matter in question was
serious, distressing, and, it might be, even critical.

In fact it was--to Ramsey. Having begun within only the last few hours to regard haberdashery
as of vital importance, and believing his father to be possessed of the experience and authority
lacking in himself, Ramsey had come to get him to settle a question which had been upsetting
him badly, in his own room, since breakfast. What he want to know was: Whether it was right
to wear an extra handkerchief showing out of the coat breast pocket or not, and, if it was
right--ought the handkerchief to have a coloured border or to be plain white? But he had never
before brought any such perplexities to his father, and found himself too diffident to set
them forth.

However, when he left the house, a few minutes later, he boldly showed an inch of purple border
above the pocket; then, as he was himself about to encounter several old lady pedestrians,
he blushed and thrust the handkerchief down into deep concealment. Having gone a block farther,
he pulled it up again; and so continued to operate this badge of fashion, or unfashion, throughout
the morning; and suffered a great deal thereby.

Meantime, his father, rather relieved that Ramsey had not told his secret, whatever it was,
dismissed the episode from his mind and joined Mrs. Milholland at the front door, ready for church.

"Where's Ramsey?" he asked.

"He's gone ahead," she answered, buttoning her gloves as they went along. "I heard the door
quite a little while ago. Perhaps he went over to walk down with Charlotte and Vance. Did you
notice how neat he looks this morning?"

"Why, no, I didn't; not particularly. Does he?"

"I never saw anything like it before," said Mrs. Milholland. "He went down in the cellar and
polished his own shoes."

"What!"

"For about an hour, I think," she said, as one remaining calm before a miracle. "And he only
has three neckties, but I saw him several times in each of them. He must have kept changing
and changing. I wonder--" She paused.

"I'm glad he's begun to take a little care of his appearance at last. Business men think a
good deal about that, these days, when he comes to make his start in the world. I'll have to
take a look at him and give him a word of praise. I suppose he'll be in the pew when we get there."

But Ramsey wasn't in the pew; and Charlotte, his sister, and her husband, who were there, said
they hadn't seen anything of him. It was not until the members of the family were on their
way home after the services that they caught a glimpse of him.

They were passing a church a little distance from their own; here the congregation was just
emerging to the open, and among the sedate throng descending the broad stone steps appeared
an accompanied Ramsey--and a red, red Ramsey he was when he beheld his father and mother and
sister and brother-in-law staring up at him from the pavement below. They were kind enough
not to come to an absolute halt, but passed slowly on, so that he was just able to avoid parading
up the street in front of them. The expressions of his father, mother, and sister were of a
dumfoundedness painful to bear, while such lurking jocosity as that apparent all over his brother-in-law
no dignified man should either exhibit or be called upon to ignore.

In hoarse whispers, Mrs. Milholland chided her husband for an exclamation he had uttered. "John!
On Sunday! You ought to be ashamed."

"I couldn't help it," he exclaimed. "Who on earth is his clinging vine? Why, she's got lavender
tops on her shoes and--"

"Don't look round!" she warned him sharply. "Don't--"

"Well, what's he doing at a Baptist church? What's he fidgeting at his handkerchief about?
Why can't he walk like people? Does he think it's obligatory to walk home from church anchored
arm-in-arm like Swedes on a Sunday Out? Who is this cow-eyed fat girl that's got him, anyhow?"

"Hush! Don't look round again, John."

"Never fear!" said her husband, having disobeyed. "They've turned off; they're crossing over
to Bullard Street. Who is it?"

"I think her name's Rust," Mrs. Milholland informed him. "I don't know what her father does.
She's one of the girls in his class at school."

"Well, that's just like a boy; pick out some putty-faced flirt to take to church!"

"Oh, she's quite pretty--in that way!" said his wife, deprecatingly. "Of course that's the
danger with public schools. It would be pleasanter if he'd taken a fancy to someone whose family
belongs to our own circle."

"'Taken a fancy'!" he echoed, hooting. "Why, he's terrible! He looked like a red-gilled goldfish
that's flopped itself out of the bowl. Why, he--"

"I say I wish if he felt that he had to take girls anywhere," said Mrs. Milholland, with the
primmest air of speaking to the point--"if this sort of thing must begin, I wish he might have
selected some nice girl among the daughters of our own friends, like Dora Yocum, for instance."

Upon the spot she began to undergo the mortification of a mother who has expected her son,
just out of infancy, to look about him with the eye of a critical matron of forty-five. Moreover,
she was indiscreet enough to express her views to Ramsey, a week later, producing thus a scene
of useless great fury and no little sound.

"I do think it's in very poor taste to see so much of any one girl, Ramsey," she said, and,
not heeding his protest that he only walked home from school with Milla, "about every other
day," and that it didn't seem any crime to him just to go to church with her a couple o' times,
Mrs. Milholland went on: "But if you think you really must be dangling around somebody quite
this much--though what in the world you find to talk about with this funny little Milla Rust
you poor father says he really cannot see--and of course it seems very queer to us that you'd
be willing to waste so much time just now when your mind ought to be entirely on your studies,
and especially with such an absurd looking little thing--

"No, you must listen, Ramsey, and let me speak now. What I meant was that we shouldn't be quite
so much distressed by your being seen with a girl who dressed in better taste and seemed to
have some notion of refinement, though of course it's only natural she wouldn't, with a father
who is just a sort of ward politician, I understand, and a mother we don't know, and of course
shouldn't care to. But, oh, Ramsey! if you had to make yourself so conspicuous why couldn't
you be a little bit more fastidious? Your father wouldn't have minded nearly so much if it
had been a self-respecting, intellectual girl. We both say that if you must be so ridiculous
at your age as to persist in seeing more of one girl than another, why, oh why, don't you go
and see some really nice girl like Dora Yocum?"

Ramsey was already dangerously distended, as an effect of the earlier part of her discourse,
and the word "fastidious" almost exploded him; but upon the climax, "Dora Yocum," he blew up
with a shattering report and, leaving fragments of incoherence ricocheting behind him, fled
shuddering from the house.

For the rest of the school term he walked home with Milla every afternoon and on sundays appeared
to have become a resolute Baptist. It was supposed (by the interested members of the high-school
class) that Ramsey and Milla were "engaged." Ramsey sometimes rather supposed they were himself,
and the dim idea gave him a sensation partly pleasant, but mostly apprehensive: he was afraid.

He was afraid that the day was coming when he ought to kiss her.

Chapter VIII

Vacation, in spite of increased leisure, may bring inconvenience to people in Ramsey's strange
but not uncommon condition. At home his constant air was that of a badgered captive plaintively
silent under injustice; and he found it difficult to reply calmly when asked where he was going--an
inquiry addressed to him, he asserted, every time he touched his cap, even to hang it up!

The amount of evening walking he did must also have been a trial to his nerves, on account
of fatigue, though the ground covered was not vast. Milla's mother and father were friendly
people but saw no reason to "move out of house and home," as Mr. Rust said, when Milla had
"callers"; and on account of the intimate plan of their small dwelling a visitor's only alternative
to spending the evening with Mr. and Mrs. Rust as well as with Milla, was to invite her to
"go out walking."

Evening after evening they walked and walked and walked, usually in company--at perhaps the
distance of half a block--with Albert Paxton and Sadie Clews, though Ramsey now and then felt
disgraced by having fallen into this class; for sometimes it was apparent that Albert casually
had his arm about Sadie's waist. This allured Ramsey somewhat, but terrified him more. He didn't
know how such matters were managed.

Usually the quartet had no destination; they just went "out walking" until ten o'clock, when
both girls had to be home--and the boys did, too, but never admitted it. On Friday evenings
there was a "public open-air concert" by a brass band in a small park, and the four were always
there. A political speechmaker occupied the bandstand one night, and they stood for an hour
in the midst of the crowd, listening vaguely.

The orator saddled his politics upon patriotism. "Do you intend to let this glorious country
go to wrack and ruin, oh, my good friends," he demanded, "or do you intend to save her? Look
forth upon this country of ours, I bid you, oh, my countrymen, and tell me what you see. You
see a fair domain of forest, mountain, plain, and fertile valleys, sweeping from ocean to ocean.
Look from the sturdy rocks of old New England, pledged to posterity by the stern religious
hardihood of the Pilgrim Fathers, across the corn-bearing midland country, that land of milk
and honey, won for us by the pluck and endurance of the indomitable pioneers, to where in sunshine
roll the smiling Sierras of golden California, given to our heritage by the unconquerable energy
of those brave men and women who braved the tomahawk on the Great Plains, the tempest, of Cape
Horn, and the fevers of Panama, to make American soil of El Dorado! America! Oh, my America,
how glorious you stand! Country of Washington and Valley Forge, out of what martyrdoms hast
thou arisen! Country of Lincoln in his box at Ford's theatre, his lifeblood staining to a brighter,
holier red the red, white, and blue of the Old Flag! Always and always I see the Old Flag fluttering
the more sacredly encrimsoned in the breeze for the martyrs who have upheld it! Always I see
that Old Flag--"

Milla gave Ramsey's arm, within her own, a little tug. "Come on," she said. "Sade says she
don't want to hang around here any longer. It's awful tiresome. Let's go."

He consented, placidly. The oration meant nothing to him and stirred no one in the audience.
The orator was impassioned; he shouted himself into coughing fits, gesticulated, grew purple;
he was so hot that his collar caved in and finally swooned upon his neck in soggy exhaustion,
prostrate round his thunderings. Meanwhile, the people listened with an air of patience, yawning
here and there, and gradually growing fewer. It was the old, old usual thing, made up of phrases
that Ramsey had heard dinning away on a thousand such occasions, and other kinds of occasions,
until they meant to him no more than so much sound. He was bored, and glad to leave.

"Kind o' funny," he said, as they sagged along the street at their usual tortoise gait.

"What is it, Ramsey?"

"Seems kind o' funny they never have anything to say any one can take any interest in. Always
the same ole whoopety-whoop about George Washington and Pilgrim Fathers and so on. I bet five
dollars before long we'd of heard him goin' on about our martyred Presidents, William McKinley
and James A. Garfield and Benjamin Harrison and all so on, and then some more about the ole
Red, White, and Blue. Don't you wish they'd quit, sometimes, about the 'Ole Flag'?"

"I dunno," said Milla. "I wasn't listening any at all. I hate speeches."

"Well, I could stand 'em," Ramsey said, more generously, "if they'd ever give anybody a little
to think about. What's the use always draggin' in George Warshington and the Ole Flag? And
who wants to hear any more ole truck about 'from ole rocky New England to golden California,'
and how big and fine the United States is and how it's the land of the Free and all that? Why
don't they ever say anything new? That's what I'd like to know."

Milla laughed, and when he asked why, she told him she'd never heard him talk so much "at one
stretch." "I guess that speech got you kind of wound up," she said. "Let's talk about something
different."

"I just soon," he agreed. And so they walked on in silence, which seemed to suit Milla. She
hung weightily upon his arm, and they dawdled, drifting from one side of the pavement to the
other as they slowly advanced. Ablert and Sadie, ahead of them, called "good-night" from a
corner, before turning down the side street where Sadie lived; and then, presently, Ramsey
and Milla were at the latter's gate. He went in with her, halting at the front steps.

"Well, g'night, Milla," he said. "Want to go out walking to-morrow night? Albert and Sadie are."

"I can't to-morrow night," she told him with obvious regret. "Isn't it the worst luck! I got
an aunt comin' to visit from Chicago, and she's crazy about playing 'Five Hundred,' and Mama
and Papa said I haf to stay in to make four to play it. She's liable to be here three or four
days, and I guess I got to be around home pretty much all the time she's here. It's the worst
luck!"

He was doleful, but ventured to be literary. "Well, what can't be helped must be endured. I'll
come around when she's gone."

He moved as if to depart, but she still retained his arm and did not prepare to relinquish it.

"Well--" he said.

"Well what, Ramsey?"

"Well--g'night."

She glanced up at the dark front of the house. "I guess the family's gone to bed," she said,
absently.

"I s'pose so."

"Well, good-night, Ramsey." She said this but still did not release his arm, and suddenly,
in a fluster, he felt that the time he dreaded had come. Somehow, without knowing where, except
that it was somewhere upon what seemed to be a blurred face too full of obstructing features,
he kissed her.

She turned instantly away in the darkness, her hands over her cheeks; and in a panic Ramsey
wondered if he hadn't made a dreadful mistake.

"S'cuse me!" he said, stumbling toward the gate. "Well, I guess I got to be gettin' along back
home."

Chapter IX

He woke in the morning to a great self-loathing: he had kissed a girl. Mingled with the loathing
was a curious pride in the very fact that caused the loathing, but the pride did not last long.
He came downstairs morbid to breakfast, and continued this mood afterward. At noon Albert Paxton
brought him a note which Milla had asked Sadie to ask Albert to give him.

Dearie: I am just wondering if you thought as much about something so sweet that happened last
night as I did you know what. I think it was the sweetest thing. I send you one with this note
and I hope you will think it is a sweet one. I would give you a real one if you were here now
and I hope you would think it was sweeter still than the one I put in this note. It is the
sweetest thing now you are mine and I am yours forever kiddo. If you come around about friday
eve it will be all right. aunt Jess will be gone back home by then so come early and we will
get Sade and Alb and go to the band Concert. Don't forget what I said about my putting something
sweet in this note, and I hope you will think it is a sweet one but not as sweet as the real
sweet one I would like to--

At this point Ramsey impulsively tore the note into small pieces. He turned cold as his imagination
projected a sketch of his mother in the act of reading this missive, and of her expression
as she read the sentence: "It is the sweetest thing now you are mine and I am yours forever
kiddo." He wished that Milla hadn't written "kiddo." She called him that, sometimes, but in
her warm little voice the word seemed not at all what it did in ink. He wished, too, that she
hadn't said she was his forever.

Suddenly he was seized with a horror of her.

Moisture broke out heavily upon him; he felt a definite sickness, and, wishing for death, went
forth upon the streets to walk and walk. He cared not whither, so that his feet took him in
any direction away from Milla, since they were unable to take him away from himself--of whom
he had as great a horror. Her loving face was continually before him, and its sweetness made
his flesh creep. Milla had been too sweet.

When he met or passed people, it seemed to him that perhaps they were able to recognize upon
him somewhere the marks of his low quality. "Softy! Ole sloppy fool!" he muttered, addressing
himself. "Slushy ole mush!... Spooner!" And he added, "Yours forever, kiddo!" Convulsions seemed
about to seize him.

Turning a corner with his head down, he almost charged into Dora Yocum. She was homeward bound
from a piano lesson, and carried a rolled leather case of sheet music--something he couldn't
imagine Milla carrying--and in her young girl's dress, which attempted to be nothing else,
she looked as wholesome as cold spring water. Ramsey had always felt that she despised him
and now, all at once, he thought that she was justified. Leper that he had become, he was unworthy
to be even touching his cap to her! And as she nodded and went briskly on, he would have given
anything to turn and walk a little way with her, for it seemed to him that this might fumigate
his morals. But he lacked the courage, and, besides, he considered himself unfit to be seen
walking with her.

He had a long afternoon of anguishes, these becoming most violent when he tried to face the
problem of his future course toward Milla. He did not face it at all, in fact, but merely writhed,
and had evolved nothing when Friday evening was upon him and Milla waiting for him to take
her to the "band concert" with "Alb and Sade." In his thoughts, by that time, this harmless
young pair shared the contamination of his own crime, and he regarded them with aversion; however,
he made shift to seek a short interview with Albert, just before dinner.

"I got a pretty rotten headache, and my stomach's upset, too," he said, drooping upon the Paxton's
fence. "I been gettin' worse every minute. You and Sadie go by Milla's, Albert, and tell her
if I'm not there by ha'-pas'-seven, tell her not to wait for me any longer."

"How do you mean 'wait'?" Albert inquired. "You don't expect her to come pokin' along with
Sadie and me, do you? She'll keep on sittin' there at home just the same, because she wouldn't
have anything else to do, if you don't come like she expects you to. She hasn't got any way
to stop waitin'!"

At this, Ramsey moaned, without affectation. "I don't expect I can, Albert," he said. "I'd
like to if I could, but the way it looks now, you tell her I wouldn't be much surprised maybe
I was startin' in with typhoid fever or pretty near anything at all. You tell her I'm pretty
near as disappointed as she's goin' to be herself, and I'd come if I could--and I will come
if I get a good deal better, or anything--but the way it's gettin' to look now, I kind o' feel
as if I might be breaking out with something any minute." He moved away, concluding, feebly:
"I guess I better crawl on home, Albert, while I'm still able to walk some. You tell her the
way it looks now I'm liable to be right sick."

And the next morning he woke to the chafings of remorse, picturing a Milla somewhat restored
in charm waiting hopefully at the gate, even after half-past seven, and then, as time passed
and the sound of the distant horns came faintly through the darkness, going sadly to her room--perhaps
weeping there. It was a picture to wring him with shame and pity, but was followed by another
which electrified him, for out of school he did not lack imagination. What if Albert had reported
his illness too vividly to Milla? Milla was so fond! What if, in her alarm, she should come
here to the house to inquire of his mother about him? What if she told Mrs. Milholland they
were "engaged"? The next moment Ramsey was projecting a conversation between his mother and
Milla in which the latter stated that she and Ramsey were soon to be married; that she regarded
him as already virtually her husband, and demanded to nurse him.

In a panic he fled from the house before breakfast, going out by way of a side door, and he
crossed back yards and climbed back fences to reach Albert Paxton the more swiftly. This creature,
a ladies' man almost professionally, was found exercising with an electric iron and a pair
of flannel trousers in a basement laundry, by way of stirring his appetite for the morning meal.

"See here, Albert," his friend said breathlessly. "I got a favour. I want you to go over to
Milla's--"

"I'm goin' to finish pressin' these trousers," Albert interrupted. "Then I've got my breakfast
to eat."

"Well, you could do this first," said Ramsey, hurriedly. "It wouldn't hurt you to do me this
little favour first. You just slip over and see Milla for me, if she's up yet, and if she isn't,
you better wait around there till she is, because I want you to tell her I'm a whole lot better
this morning. Tell her I'm pretty near practick'ly all right again, Albert, and I'll prob'ly
write her a note or something right soon--or in a week or so, anyhow. You tell her--"

"Well, you act pretty funny!" Albert exclaimed, fumbling in the pockets of his coat. "Why can't
you go on over and tell her yourself?"

"I would," said Ramsey. "I'd be perfectly willing to go only I got to get back home to breakfast."

Albert stared. "Well, I got to go upstairs and eat my own breakfast in about a minute, haven't
I? But just as it happens there wouldn't be any use your goin' over there, or me, either."

"Why not?"

"Milla ain't there," said Albert, still searching the pockets of his coat. "When we went by
her house last night to tell her about your headache and stomach and all, why, her mother told
us Milla'd gone up to Chicago yesterday afternoon with her aunt, and said she left a note for
you, and she said if you were sick I better take it and give it to you. I was goin' to bring
it over to your house after breakfast." He found it. "Here!"

Ramsey thanked him feebly, and departed in a state of partial stupefaction, brought on by a
glimpse of the instabilities of life. He had also, not relief, but a sense of vacancy and loss;
for Milla, out of his reach, once more became mysteriously lovely.

Pausing in an alley, he read her note.

Dearie: Thought I ought to call you up but over the 'phone is just nix for explanations as
Mama and Aunt Jess would hear everything and thought I might seem cold to you not saying anything
sweet on account of them listening and you would wonder why I was so cold when telling you
good-by for a wile maybe weeks. It is this way Uncle Purv wired Aunt Jess he has just taken
in a big touring car on a debt and his vacation starts to-morrow so if they were going to take
a trip they better start right way so Aunt Jess invited me. It is going to be a big trip up
around the lakes and I have always wanted to go touring more than anything in the world stopping
at hotels and all and Mama said I ought to it would be so splendid for my health as she thinks
I am failing some lately. Now dearie I have to pack and write this in a hurry so you will not
be disappointed when you come by for the B. C. to-night. Do not go get some other girl and
take her for I would hate her and nothing in this world make me false for one second to my
kiddo boy. I do not know just when home again as the folks think I better stay up there for
a visit at Aunt Jess and Uncle Purvs home in Chicago after the trip is over. But I will think
of you all the time and you must think of me every minute and believe your own dearie she will
never no not for one second be false. So tell Sade and Alb good-by for me and do not be false
to me any more than I would be to you and it will not be long till nothing more will interrupt
our sweet friendship.

As a measure of domestic prudence, Ramsey tore the note into irreparable fragments, but he
did this slowly, and without experiencing any of the revulsion created by Milla's former missive.

He was melancholy, aggrieved that she should treat him so.

Chapter X

He never saw her again. She sent him a "picture postal" from Oconomowoc, Wisconsin, which his
father disengaged from the family mail, one morning at breakfast, and considerately handed
to him without audible comment. Upon it was written, "Oh, you Ramsey!" This was the last of Milla.

Just before school opened, in the autumn, Sadie Clews made some revelations. "Milla did like
you," said Sadie. "After that time you jumped in the creek to save her she liked you better
than any boy in town, and I guess if it wasn't for her cousin Milt up in Chicago she would
of liked you the best anywhere. I guess she did, anyway, because she hadn't seen him for about
a year then.

"Well, that afternoon she went away I was over there and took in everything that was goin'
on, only she made me promise on my word of honour I wouldn't even tell Albert. They didn't
get any wire from her uncle about the touring car; it was her cousin Milt that jumped on the
train and came down and fixed it all up for Milla to go on the trip, and everything. You see,
Ramsey, she was turned back a couple of times in school before she came in our class and I
don't exactly know how old she is and she don't look old yet, but I'm pretty sure she's at
least eighteen, and she might be over. Her mother kept tellin' her all the time you were just
a kid, and didn't have anything to support her on, and lots of things like that. I didn't think
such a great deal of this Milt's looks, myself, but he's anyway twenty-one years old, and got
a good position, and all their family seem to think he's just fine! It wasn't his father that
took in the touring car on debt, like she said she was writing to you; it was Milt himself.
He started out in business when he was only fifteen years old, and this trip he was gettin'
up for his father and mother and Milla was the first vacation he ever took. Well, of course
she wouldn't like my tellin' you, but I can't see the harm of it, now everything's all over."

"All--all over? You mean Milla's going to be--to be married?"

"She already is," said Sadie. "They got married at her Aunt Jess and Uncle Purv's house, up
in Chicago, last Thursday. Yes, sir; that quiet little Milla's a regular old married woman
by this time, I expect, Ramsey!"

When he got over the shock, which was not until the next day, one predominating feeling remained:
it was a gloomy pride--a pride in his proven maturity. He was old enough, it appeared, to have
been the same thing as engaged to a person who was now a Married Woman. His manner thenceforth
showed an added trace of seriousness and self-consideration.

Having recovered his equipoise and something more, he entirely forgot that moment of humble
admiration he had felt for Dora Yocum on the day of his flattest prostration. When he saw her
sitting in the classroom, smiling brightly up at the teacher, the morning of the school's opening
in the autumn, all his humility had long since vanished and she appeared to him not otherwise
than as the scholar whose complete proficiency had always been so irksome to him.

"Look at her!" he muttered to himself. "Same ole Teacher's Pet!"

Now and then, as the days and seasons passed, and Dora's serene progress continued, never checked
or even flawed, there stirred within some lingerings of the old determination to "show" her;
and he would conjure up a day-dream of Dora in loud lamentation, while he led the laughter
of the spectators. But gradually his feelings about her came to be merely a dull oppression.
He was tired of having to look at her (as he stated it) and he thanked the Lord that the time
wouldn't be so long now until he'd be out of that ole school, and then all he'd have to do
he'd just take care never to walk by her house; it was easy enough to use some other street
when he had to go down-town.

"The good ole class of Nineteen-Fourteen is about gone," he said to Fred Mitchell, who was
still his most intimate friend when they reached the senior year. "Yes, sir; it's held together
a good many years, Fred, but after June it'll be busted plum up, and I hope nobody starts a
move to have any reunions. There's a good many members of the ole class that I can stand and
there's some I can't, but there's one I just won't! If we ever did call a reunion, that ole
Yocum girl would start in right away and run the whole shebang, and that's where I'd resign!
You know, Fred, the thing I think is the one biggest benefit of graduating from this ole school?
It's never seein' Dora Yocum again."

This was again his theme as he sat by the same friend's side, in the rear row of the class
at Commencement, listening to the delivery of the Valedictory. "Thinks she's just sooblime,
don't she!" he whispered morosely. "She wouldn't trade with the President of the United States
right now. She prob'ly thinks bein' Valedictorian is more important than Captain of the State
University Eleven. Never mind!" And here his tone became huskily jubilant. "Never mind! Just
about a half-an-hour more and that's the last o' you, ole girl! Yes, sir, Fred; one thing we
can feel pretty good over: this is where we get through with Dora Yocum!"

Ramsey and Fred had arranged to room together at Greenfield, the seat of the state university,
and they made the short journey in company the following September. They arrived hilarious,
anticipating pleasurable excitements in the way of "fraternity" pledgings and initiations,
encounters with sophomores, class meetings, and elections; and, also, they were not absolutely
without interest in the matter of Girls, for the state university was co-educational, and it
was but natural to expect in so broad a field, all new to them, a possible vision of something
rather thrilling. They whispered cheerfully of all these things during the process of matriculation,
and signed the registrar's book on a fresh page; but when Fred had written his name under Ramsey's,
and blotted it, he took the liberty of turning over the leaf to examine some of the autographs
of their future classmates, written on the other side. Then he uttered an exclamation, more
droll than dolorous, though it affected to be wholly the latter; for the shock to Fred was
by no means so painful as it was to his friend.

Ramsey leaned forward and read the name indicated by Fred's forefinger.

Dora Yocum.

...When they got back to their pleasant quarters at Mrs. Meig's, facing the campus, Ramsey
was still unable to talk of anything except the lamentable discovery; nor were his companion's
burlesquing efforts to console him of great avail, though Fred did become serious enough to
point out that a university was different from a high school.

"It's not like havin' to use one big room as a headquarters, you know, Ramsey. Everything's
all split up, and she might happen not to be in a single of your classes."

"You don't know my luck!" the afflicted boy protested. "I wish I'd gone to Harvard, the way
my father wanted me to. Why, this is just the worst nuisance I ever struck! You'll see! She'll
be in everything there is, just the way she was back home."

He appeared to be corroborated by the events of the next day, when they attended the first
meeting to organize the new class. The masculine element predominated, but Dora Yocum was elected
vice-president. "You see?" Ramsey said. "Didn't I tell you? You see what happens?"

But after that she ceased for a time to intrude upon his life, and he admitted that his harassment
was less grave than he had anticipated. There were about five hundred students in the freshman
class; he seldom saw her, and when he did it was not more than a distant glimpse of her on
one of the campus paths, her thoughtful head bent over a book as she hurried to a classroom.
This was bearable; and in the flattering agitations of being sought, and even hunted, by several
"fraternities" simultaneously desirous of his becoming a sworn Brother, he almost forgot her.
After a hazardous month the roommates fell into the arms of the last "frat" to seek them, and
having undergone an evening of outrage which concluded with touching rhetoric and an oath taken
at midnight, they proudly wore jewelled symbols on their breasts and were free to turn part
of their attention to other affairs, especially the affairs of the Eleven.

However, they were instructed by the older brethren of their Order, whose duty it was to assist
in the proper manoeuvring of their young careers, that, although support of the 'varsity teams
was important, they must neglect neither the spiritual nor the intellectual by-products of
undergraduate doings. Therefore they became members of the college Y.M.C.A. and of the "Lumen
Society."

According to the charter which it had granted itself, the "Lumen Society" was an "Organization
of male and female students"--so "advanced" was this university--"for the development of the
powers of debate and oratory, intellectual and sociological progress, and the discussion of
all matters relating to philosophy, metaphysics, literature, art, and current events." A statement
so formidable was not without a hushing effect upon Messrs. Milholland and Mitchell; they went
to their first "Lumen" meeting in a state of fear and came away little reassured.

"I couldn't get up there," Ramsey declared, "I couldn't stand up there before all that crowd
and make a speech, or debate in a debate, to save my soul and gizzard! Why, I'd just keel right
over and haf to be carried out."

"Well, the way I understand it," said Fred, "we can't get out of it. The seniors in the 'frat'
said we had to join, and they said we couldn't resign, either, after we had joined. They said
we just had to go through it, and after a while we'd get used to it and not mind it much."

"I will!" Ramsey insisted. "I couldn't any more stand up there on my feet and get to spoutin'
about sociology and the radical metempsychorus of the metaphysical bazoozum than I could fly
a flyin' machine. Why, I--"

"Oh, that wasn't anything," Fred interrupted. "The only one that talked like that, he was that
Blickens; he's a tutor, or something, and really a member of the faculty. Most o' the others
just kind of blah-blahhed around, and what any of 'em tried to get off their chests hardly
amounted to terribly much."

"I don't care. I couldn't do it at all!"

"Well, the way it looks to me," Fred observed, "we simply got to! From what they tell me, the
freshmen got to do more than anybody. Every other Friday night, it's all freshmen and nothin'
else. You get a postal card on Monday morning in your mail, and it says 'Assignment' on it,
and then it's got written underneath what you haf to do the next Friday night--oration or debate,
or maybe just read from some old book or something. I guess we got to stand up there and try,
anyway."

"All right," said Ramsey. "If they want me to commit suicide they can send me one o' their
ole 'Assignments.' I won't need to commit suicide, though, I guess. All I'll do, I'll just
fall over in a fit, and stay in it."

And, in truth, when he received his first "Assignment," one Monday morning, a month later,
he seemed in a fair way to fulfil his prophecy. The attention of his roommate, who sat at a
window of their study, was attracted by sounds of strangulation.

"What on earth's the matter, Ramsey?"

"Look! Look at this!"

Fred took the card and examined it with an amazement gradually merging into a pleasure altogether
too perceptible:

ASSIGNMENT

TWELVE-MINUTE DEBATE, CLASS OF 1918. Subject, Resolved: That Germany is both legally and morally
justified in her invasion of Belgium.

(Debaters are notified that each will be held strictly to the following schedule: Affirmative,
4 min., first. Negative, 4 min., first. Affirm, 2 min., second. Neg., 2 min., second.)

Affirmative Negative R. MILHOLLAND, '18 D. YOCUM, '18

Concluding his reading, which was oral, the volatile Mitchell made use of his voice in a manner
of heathenish boisterousness, and presently reclined upon a lounge to laugh the better. His
stricken comrade, meanwhile, recovered so far as to pace the floor. "I'm goin' to pack up and
light out for home!" he declared, over and over. And even oftener he read and reread the card
to make sure of the actuality of that fatal coincidence, "D. Yocum, '18."

Chapter XI

"If I could do it," he vociferated, "if I could stand up there and debate one o' their darn
ole debates in the first place--if I had the gall to even try it, why, my gosh! you don't suppose
I'm goin' to get up there and argue with that girl, do you? That's a hot way to get an education:
stand up there and argue with a girl before a couple o' hundred people! My gosh!"

"You got to!" his prostrate companion cackled, weakly. "You can't get out of it. You're a goner,
ole Buddy!"

"I'll be sick. I'll be sick as a dog! I'll be sick as the sickest dog that ever--"

"No use, ole man. The frat seniors'll be on the job. They'll know whether you're sick or not,
and they'll have you there, right on the spot to the minute!"

The prediction was accurate. The too fatherly "frat seniors" did all that Fred said they would,
and more. For the honour of the "frat," they coached the desperate Ramsey in the technic of
Lumen debate, told him many more things to say than could be said in six minutes, and produced
him, despairing, ghastly, and bedewed, in the large hall of the Lumen Society at eight o'clock
on Friday evening.

Four other "twelve-minute debates" preceded his and the sound of these, in Ramsey's ears, was
the sound of Gabriel practising on his horn in the early morning of Judgment Day. The members
of the society sat, three rows deep, along the walls of the room, leaving a clear oblong of
green carpet in the centre, where were two small desks, twenty feet apart, the rostrums of
the debaters. Upon a platform at the head of the room sat dreadful seniors, the officers of
the society, and, upon benches near the platform, the debaters of the evening were aligned.
One of the fraternal seniors sat with sweltering Ramsey; and the latter, as his time relentlessly
came nearer, made a last miserable squirm.

"Look here, Brother Colburn, I got to get out o' here."

"No, you don't, young fellow."

"Yes, I do!" Ramsey whispered, passionately. "Honest, I do. Honest, Brother Colburn, I got
to get a drink of water. I got to!"

"No. You can't."

"Honest, Colburn, I got--"

"Hush!"

Ramsey grunted feebly, and cast his dilating eyes along the rows of faces. Most of them were
but as blurs, swimming, yet he was aware (he thought) of a formidable and horrible impassive
scrutiny of himself, a glare seeming to pierce through him to the back of the belt round his
waist, so that he began to have fearful doubts about that belt, about every fastening and adjustment
of his garments, about the expression of his countenance, and about many other things jumbling
together in his consciousness. Over and over he whispered gaspingly to himself the opening
words of the sentence with which Colburn had advised him to begin his argument.

...It had come. The chairman announced the subject of the fourth freshman twelve-minute debate;
and Dora Yocum, hitherto unperceived by Ramsey, rose and went forward to one of the small desks
in the open space, where she stood composedly, a slim, pretty figure in white. Members in Ramsey's
neighbourhood were aware of a brief and hushed commotion, and of Colburn's fierce whisper,
"You can't! You get up there!" And the blanched Ramsey came forth and placed himself at the
other desk.

He stood before the silent populace of that morgue, and it seemed to him that his features
had forgotten that he was supposed to be their owner and in control of them; he felt that they
were slipping all over his face, regardless of his wishes. His head, as a whole, was subject
to an agitation not before known by him; it desired to move rustily in eccentric ways of its
own devising; his legs alternately limbered and straightened under no direction but their own;
and his hands clutched each other fiercely behind his back; he was not one cohesive person,
evidently, but an assembled collection of parts which had relapsed each into its own individuality.
In spite of them, he somehow contrived the semblance of a bow toward the chairman and the semblance
of another toward Dora, of whom he was but hazily conscious. Then he opened his mouth, and,
not knowing how he had started his voice going, heard it as if from a distance.

"In making my first appearance before this honor'ble membership I feel restrained to say--"
He stopped short, and thenceforward shook visibly. After a long pause, he managed to repeat
his opening, stopped again, swallowed many times, produced a handkerchief and wiped his face,
an act of necessity--then had an inspiration.

"The subject assigned to me," he said, "is resolved that Germany is mor'ly and legally justified
in Belgians--Belgiums! This subject was assigned to me to be the subject of this debate." He
interrupted himself to gasp piteously; found breathing difficult, but faltered again: "This
subject is the subject. It is the subject that was assigned to me on a postal card." Then,
for a moment or so, he had a miraculous spurt of confidence, and continued rather rapidly:
"I feel constrained to say that the country of Belgian--Belgium, I mean--this country has been
constrained by the--invaded I mean--invaded by the imperial German Impire and my subject in
this debate is whether it ought to or not, my being the infernative--affirmative, I mean--that
I got to prove that Germany is mor'ly and legally justified. I wish to state that--"

He paused again, lengthily, then struggled on. "I have been requested to state that the German
Imp--Empire--that it certainly isn't right for those Dutch--Germans, I mean--they haven't got
any more business in Belgium than I have myself, but I--I feel constrained to say that I had
to accept whatever side of this debate I got on the postal card, and so I am constrained to
take the side of the Dutch. I mean the Germans. The Dutch are sometimes called--I mean the
Germans are sometimes called the Dutch in this country, but they aren't Dutch, though sometimes
called Dutch in this country. Well, and so--so, well, the war began last August or about then,
anyway, and the German army invaded the Belgian army. After they got there, the invasion began.
First, they came around there and then they commenced invading. Well, what I feel constrained--"

He came to the longest of all his pauses here, and the awful gravity of the audience almost
suffocated him. "Well," he concluded, "it don't look right to me."

"Four minutes!" the chairman announced, for Ramsey's pauses had worn away a great deal more
of this terrible interval than had his eloquence. "Opening statement for the negative: Miss
D. Yocum. Four minutes."

As Dora began to speak, Ramsey experienced a little relief, but only a little--about the same
amount of relief as that felt by a bridegroom when it is the bride's turn to "respond," not
really relief at all, but merely the slight relaxation of a continuing strain. The audience
now looked at Ramsey no more than people look at a bridegroom, but he failed to perceive any
substantial mitigation of his frightful conspicuousness. He had not the remotest idea of what
he had said in setting forth his case for Germany, and he knew that it was his duty to listen
closely to Dora, in order to be able to refute her argument when his two-minute closing speech
fell due but he was conscious of little more than his own condition. His legs had now gone
wild beyond all devilry, and he had to keep shifting his weight from one to the other in order
even to hope that their frenzy might escape general attention.

He realized that Dora was speaking rapidly and confidently, and that somewhere in his ill-assembled
parts lurked a familiar bit of him that objected to her even more than usual; but she had used
half of her time, at least, before he was able to gather any coherent meaning from what she
was saying. Even then he caught only a fragment, here and there, and for the rest--so far as
Ramsey was concerned--she might as well have been reciting the Swedish alphabet.

In spite of the rather startling feebleness of her opponent's statement, Dora went at her task
as earnestly as if it were to confute some monster of casuistry. "Thus, having demonstrated
that all war is wrong," she said, approaching her conclusion, "it is scarcely necessary to
point out that whatever the actual circumstances of the invasion, and whatever the status of
the case in international law, or by reason of treaty, or the German oath to respect the neutrality
of Belgium, which of course was grossly and dishonorably violated--all this, I say, ladies
and gentlemen of the Lumen Society, all this is beside the point of morals. Since, as I have
shown, all war is wrong, the case may be simplified as follows: All war is morally wrong. Quod
erat demonstrandum. Germany invaded Belgium. Invasion is war. Germany, therefore, did moral
wrong. Upon the legal side, as I began by pointing out, Germany confessed in the Reichstag
the violation of law. Therefore, Germany was justified in the invasion neither morally nor
legally; but was both morally and legally wrong and evil. Ladies and gentlemen of the Lumen
Society, I await the refutation of my opponent!"

Her opponent appeared to be having enough trouble with his legs, without taking any added cares
upon himself in the way of refutations. But the marvellous Dora had calculated the length of
her statement with such nicety that the chairman announced "Four minutes," almost upon the
instant of her final syllable; and all faces turned once more to the upholder of the affirmative.
"Refutation and conclusion by the affirmative," said the chairman. "Mr. R. Milholland. Two
minutes."

Therewith, Ramsey coughed as long as he could cough, and when he felt that no more should be
done in this way, he wiped his face--again an act of necessity--and quaveringly began:

"Gentlemen and ladies, or ladies and gentlemen, in making the refutation of my opponent, I
feel that--I feel that hardly anything more ought to be said."

He paused, looked helplessly at his uncontrollable legs, and resumed: "I am supposed to make
the reputa--the refutation of my opponent, and I feel that I ought to say quite a good deal
more. In the first place, I feel that the invasion has taken place. I am supposed--anyhow I
got a postal card that I am supposed to be here to-night. Well, in talking over this matter
with a couple of seniors, they told me I was supposed to claim this invasion was mor'ly and
legally all right. Well--" Here, by some chance, the recollection of a word of Dora's flickered
into his chaotic mind, and he had a brighter moment. "My opponent said she proved all war is
wrong--or something like that, anyhow. She said she proved it was wrong to fight, no matter
what. Well, if she wasn't a girl, anybody that wanted to get her into a fight could prob'ly
do it." He did not add that he would like to be the person to make the experiment (if Dora
weren't a girl), nor did the thought enter his mind until an hour or so later. "Well," he added,
"I suppose there is little more to be said."

He was so right, in regard to his own performance, at least, that, thereupon drying up utterly,
he proceeded to stand, a speechless figure in the midst of a multitudinous silence, for an
eternity lasting forty-five seconds. He made a racking effort, and at the end of this epoch
found words again. "In making my argument in this debate, I would state that--"

"Two minutes!" said the chairman. "Refutation by the negative. Miss D. Yocum. Two minutes."

"I waive them," said Dora, primly. "I submit that the affirmative has not refuted the argument
of the negative."

"Very well." With his gavel the chairman sharply tapped the desk before him, "The question
is now before the house. 'Resolved, that Germany is both morally and legally justified in her
invasion of Belgium.' All those in favour of the--"

But here there was an interruption of a kind never before witnessed during any proceedings
of the Lumen Society. It came from neither of the debaters, who still remained standing at
their desks until the vote settling their comparative merits in argument should be taken. The
interruption was from the rear row of seats along the wall, where sat new members of the society,
freshmen not upon the program for the evening. A loud voice was heard from this quarter, a
loud but nasal voice, shrill as well as nasal, and full of a strange hot passion. "Mr. Chairman!"
it cried. "Look-a-here, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Chairman, I demand to be heard! You gotta gimme my
say, Mr. Chairman! I'm a-gunna have my say! You look-a-here, Mr. Chairman!"

Shocked by such a breach of order, and by the unseemly violence of the speaker, not only the
chairman but everyone else looked there. A short, strong figure was on its feet, gesticulating
fiercely; and the head belonging to it was a large one with too much curly black hair, a flat,
swarthy face, shiny and not immaculately shaven; there was an impression of ill-chosen clothes,
too much fat red lip, too much tooth, too much eyeball. Fred Mitchell, half-sorrowing, yet
struggling to conceal tears of choked mirth over his roommate's late exhibition, recognized
this violent interrupter as one Linski, a fellow freshman who sat next to him in one of his
classes. "What's that cuss up to?" Fred wondered, and so did others. Linski showed them.

He pressed forward, shoving himself through the two rows in front of him till he emerged upon
the green carpet of the open space, and as he came, he was cyclonic with words.

"You don't put no such stuff as this over, I tell you!" he shouted in his hot, nasal voice.
"This here's a free country, and you call yourself a debating society, do you? Lemme tell you
I belong to a debating society in Chicago, where I come from, and them fellas up there, they'd
think they'd oughta be shot fer a fake like what you people are tryin' to put over, here, to-night.
I come down here to git some more education, and pay fer it, too, in good hard money I've made
sweatin' in a machine shop up there in Chicago; but if this is the kind of education I'm a-gunna
git, I better go on back there. You call this a square debate, do you?"

He advanced toward the chairman's platform, shaking a frantic fist. "Well, if you do, you got
another think comin', my capitalis' frien'! you went and give out the question whether it's
right fer Choimuny to go through Belgium; and what do you do fer the Choimun side? You pick
out this here big stiff"--he waved his passionate hand at the paralyzed Ramsey--"you pick out
a boob like that for the Choimun side, a poor fish that gits stagefright so bad he don't know
whether he's talkin' or dead; or else he fakes it; because he's a speaker so bum it looks more
to me like he was faking. You get this big stiff to fake the Choimun side, and then you go
and stick up a goil agains' him that's got brains and makes a pacifis' argument that wins the
case agains' the Choimuns like cuttin' through hog lard! But you ain't a-gunna git away with
it, mister! Lemme tell you right here and now, I may be a mix blood, but I got some Choimun
in me with the rest what I got, and before you vote on this here question you gotta hear a
few woids from somebody that can talk! This whole war is a capitalis' war, Belgium as much
as Choimuny, and the United States is sellin' its soul to the capitalis' right now, I tell
you, takin' sides agains' Choimuny. Orders fer explosives and ammanition and guns and Red Cross
supplies is comin' into this country by the millions, and the capitalis' United States is fat
already on the blood of the workers of Europe! Yes, it is, and I'll have my say, you boorjaw
faker, and you can hammer your ole gavel to pieces at me!"

He had begun to shriek; moisture fell from his brow and his mouth; the scandalized society
was on its feet, nervously into groups. Evidently the meeting was about to disintegrate. "I'll
have my say!" the frenzied Linski screamed. "You try to put up this capitalis' trick and work
a fake to carry over this debate agains' Choimuny, but you can't work it on me, lemme tell
you! I'll have my say!"

The outraged chairman was wholly at a loss how to deal with the "unprecedented situation"--so
he defined it, quite truthfully; and he continued to pound upon the desk, while other clamours
began to rival Linski's; shouts of "Put him out!" "Order!" "Shut up, Freshman!" "Turn him over
to the sophomores!"

"This meeting is adjourned!" bellowed the chairman, and there was a thronging toward the doors,
while the frothing Linski asseverated: "I'm a-gunna git my say, I tell you! I'll have my say!
I'll have my say!"

He had more than that, before the hour was over. A moment after he emerged from the building
and came out, still hot, upon the cool, dark campus, he found himself the centre of a group
of his own classmates whom he at first mistook for sophomores, such was their manner.

...As this group broke up, a few minutes later, a youth running to join it, scenting somewhat
of interest, detained one of those who were departing.

"What's up? What was that squealing?"

"Oh, nothing. We just talked to that Linski. Nobody else touched him, but Ramsey Milholland
gave him a peach of a punch on the snoot."

"Whoopee!"

Ramsey was laconic in response to inquiries upon this subject. When someone remarked: "You
served him right for calling you a boob and a poor fish and so on before all the society, girls
and all," Ramsey only said:

"That wasn't what I hit him for."

He declined to explain further.

Chapter XII

"The way I look at it, Ramsey," Fred Mitchell said, when they reached their apartment, whither
the benevolent Colburn accompanied them, "the way I look at it, this Linski kind of paid you
a compliment, after all, when he called you a fake. He must have thought you anyway looked
as if you could make a better speech than you did. Oh, golly!"

And as Ramsey groaned, the jovial Mitchell gave himself up to the divan and the mirth. "Oh,
oh, oh, golly!" he sputtered.

"Never you mind, Brother Milholland," Colburn said gently. "The Lumen is used to nervous beginners.
I've seen dozens in my time, just like you; and some of 'em got to be first rate before they
quit. Besides, this crazy Linski is all that anybody'll ever remember about to-night's meeting,
anyhow. There never was any such outbreak as that in my time, and I guess there never was in
the whole history of the society. We'll probably suspend him until he apologizes to the society--I'm
on the board, and I'm in favour of it. Who is the bird, anyhow? He's in your class."

"I never saw him before," Ramsey responded from the deep chair, where he had moodily thrown
himself; and, returning to his brooding upon his oratory. "Oh, murder!" he moaned.

"Well," said the senior, "you'll know him when you see him again. You put your mark on him
where you can see it, all right!" He chuckled. "I suppose I really ought to have interfered
in that, but I decided to do a little astronomical observation, about fifty feet away, for
a few minutes. I'm 'way behind in my astronomy, anyhow. Do you know this Linski, Brother Mitchell?"

"I've talked to him a couple o' times on the campus," said Fred. "He's in one of my classes.
He's about the oldest in our class, I guess--a lot older than us, anyhow. He's kind of an anarchist
or something; can't talk more'n five minutes any time without gettin off some bug stuff about
'capitalism.' He said the course in political economy was all 'capitalism' and the prof was
bought by Wall Street."

"Poor old Prof. Craig!" Colburn laughed. "He gets fifteen hundred a year."

"Yes; I'd heard that myself, and I told Linski, and he said he had an uncle workin' in a steel
mill got twice that much; but it didn't make any difference, ole Craig was bought by Wall Street.
He said 'capitalism' better look out; he and the foreign-born workmen were goin' to take this
country some day, and that was one of the reasons he was after an education. He talked pretty
strong pro-German, too--about the war in Europe--but I sort of thought that was more because
he'd be pro-anything that he thought would help upset the United States than because he cared
much about Germany."

"Yes," said Colburn, "that's how he sounded to-night. I guess there's plenty more like him
in the cities, too. That reminds me, I'd better arrange a debate on immigration for the Lumen.
We'll put Brother Milholland for the negative, this time."

Ramsey started violently. "See here--"

But the senior reassured him. "Just wanted to see you jump," he explained. "Don't fear; you've
done your share."

"I should think I have!" Ramsey groaned.

"Yes, you won't be called on again this term. By the way," said Colburn, thoughtfully, "that
was a clever girl you had against you to-night. I don't believe in pacificism much, myself,
but she used it very niftily for her argument. Isn't she from your town, this Miss Yocum?"

Fred nodded.

"Well, she's a clever young thing," said the senior, still thoughtful. And he added: "Graceful
girl, she is."

At this, the roommates looked at him with startled attention. Ramsey was so roused as to forget
his troubles and sit forward in his chair.

"Yes," said the musing Colburn, "she's a mighty pretty girl."

"What!"

This exclamation was a simultaneous one; the astounded pair stared at him in blank incredulity.

"Why, don't you think so?" Colburn mildly inquired. "She seems to me very unusual looking."

"Well, yes," Fred assented, emphatically. "We're with you there!"

"Extraordinary eyes," continued Colburn. "Lovely figure, too; altogether a strikingly pretty
girl. Handsome, I should say, perhaps. Yes, 'handsome' rather than 'pretty'." He looked up
from a brief reverie. "You fellows known her long?"

"You bet!" said Ramsey.

"She made a splendid impression on the Lumen," Colburn went on. "I don't remember that I ever
saw a first appearance there that quite equalled it. She'll probably have a brilliant career
in the society, and in the university, too. She must be a very fine sort of person." He deliberated
within himself a few moments longer, then, realizing that his hosts and Brethren did not respond
with any heartiness--or with anything at all--to the theme, he changed it, and asked them what
they thought about the war in Europe.

They talked of the war rather drowsily for a while; it was an interesting but not an exciting
topic: the thing they spoke of was so far away. It was in foreign countries where they had
never been and had no acquaintances; and both the cause and the issue seemed to be in confusion,
though evidently Germany had "started" the trouble. Only one thing emerged as absolutely clear
and proved: there could be no disagreement about Germany's "dirty work," as Fred defined it,
in violating Belgium. And this stirred Ramsey to declare with justice that "dirty work" had
likewise been done upon himself by the official person, whoever he or she was, who had given
him the German side of the evening's debate. After this moment of fervour, the conversation
languished, and Brother Colburn rose to go.

"Well, I'm glad you gave that Linski a fine little punch, Brother Milholland," he said, at
the door. "It won't do you any harm in the 'frat,' or with the Lumen either. And don't be discouraged
about your debating. You'll learn. Anybody might have got rattled by having to argue against
as clever and good-looking a girl as that!"

The roommates gave each other a look of serious puzzlement as the door closed. "Well, Brother
Colburn is a mighty nice fellow," Fred said. "He's kind of funny, though."

Ramsey assented, and then, as the two prepared for bed, they entered into a further discussion
of their senior friend. They liked him "all right," they said, but he certainly must be kind
of queer, and they couldn't just see how he had "ever managed to get where he was" in the "frat"
and the Lumen and the university.

Chapter XIII

Ramsey passed the slightly disfigured Linski on the campus next day without betraying any embarrassment
or making a sign of recognition. Fred Mitchell told his roommate, chuckling, that Linski had
sworn to "get" him, and, not knowing Fred's affiliations, had made him the confidant of his
oath. Fred had given his blessing, he said, upon the enterprise, and advised Linski to use
a brick. "He'll hit you on the head with it," said the light-hearted Fred, falling back upon
this old joke. "Then you can catch it as it bounces off and throw it back at him."

However, Linski proved to be merely an episode, not only so far as Ramsey was concerned but
in the Lumen and in the university as well. His suspension from the Lumen was for a year, and
so cruel a punishment it proved for this born debater that he noisily declared he would found
a debating society himself, and had a poster printed and distributed announcing the first meeting
of "The Free Speech and Masses' Rights Council." Several town loafers attended the meeting,
but the only person connected with the university who came was an oriental student, a Chinese
youth of almost intrusive amiability. Linski made a fiery address, the townsmen loudly appluading
his advocacy of an embargo on munitions and the distribution of everybody's "property," but
the Chinaman, accustomed to see students so madly in earnest only when they were burlesquing,
took the whole affair to be intended humour, and tittered politely without cessation--except
at such times as he thought it proper to appear quite wrung with laughter. Then he would rock
himself, clasp his mouth with both hands and splutter through his fingers. Linski accused him
of being in the pay of "capital."

Next day the orator was unable to show himself upon the campus without causing demonstrations;
whenever he was seen a file of quickly gathering students marched behind him chanting repeatedly
and deafeningly in chorus: "Down with Wall Street! Hoch der Kaiser! Who loves Linski? Who,
who, who? Hoo Lun! Who loves Linski? Who, who, who? Hoo Lun!"

Linski was disgusted, resigned from the university, and disappeared.

"Well, here it isn't mid-year Exams yet, and the good ole class of Nineteen-Eighteen's already
lost a member," said Fred Mitchell. "I guess we can bear the break-up!"

"I guess so," Ramsey assented. "That Linski might just as well stayed here, though."

"Why?"

"He couldn't do any harm here. He'll prob'ly get more people to listen to him in cities where
there's so many new immigrants and all such that don't know anything, comin' in all the time."

"Oh, well," said Fred. "What do we care what happens to Chicago! Come on, let's behave real
wild, and go on over to the 'Teria and get us a couple egg sandwiches and sassprilly."

Ramsey was willing.

After the strain of the "mid-year Exams" in February, they lived a free-hearted life. They
had settled into the ways of their world; they had grown used to it, and it had grown used
to them; there was no longer any ignominy in being a freshman. They romped upon the campus
and sometimes rioted harmlessly about the streets of the town. In the evenings they visited
their fellows and Brethren and were visited in turn, and sometimes they looked so far ahead
as to talk vaguely of their plans for professions or business--though to a freshman this concerned
an almost unthinkably distant prospect. "I guess I'll go in with my father, in the wholesale
drug business," said Fred. "My married brother already is in the firm, and I suppose they'll
give me a show--send me out on the road a year or two first, maybe, to try me. Then I'm going
to marry some little cutie and settle down. What you goin' to do, Ramsey? Go to Law School,
and then come back and go in your father's office?"

"I don't know. Guess so."

It was always Fred who did most of the talking; Ramsey was quiet. Fred told the "frat seniors"
that Ramsey was "developing a whole lot these days"; and he told Ramsey himself that he could
see a "big change" in him, adding that the improvement was probably due to Ramsey's having
passed through "terrible trials like that debate."

Ramsey kept to their rooms more than his comrade did, one reason for this domesticity being
that he "had to study longer than Fred did, to keep up"; and another reason may have been a
greater shyness than Fred possessed--if, indeed, Fred possessed any shyness at all. For Fred
was a cheery spirit difficult to abash, and by the coming of spring knew all of the best-looking
girl students in the place--knew them well enough, it appeared, to speak of them not merely
by their first names but by abbreviations of these. He had become fashion's sprig, a "fusser"
and butterfly, and he reproached his roommate for shunning the ladies.

"Well, the truth is, Fred," said Ramsey one day, responding darkly;--"well, you see the truth
is, Fred, I've had a--a--I've had an experience--"

So, only, did he refer to Milla.

Fred said no more; and it was comprehended between them that the past need never be definitely
referred to again, but that it stood between Ramsey and any entertainment to be obtained of
the gentler but less trustworthy sex. And when other Brethren of the "frat" would have pressed
Ramsey to join them in various frivolous enterprises concerning "co-eds," or to be shared by
"co-eds," Fred thought it better to explain to them privately (all being sacred among Brethren)
how Ramsey's life, so far as Girls went, had been toyed with by one now a Married Woman.

This created a great deal of respect for Ramsey. It became understood everywhere that he was
a woman-hater.

Chapter XIV

That early spring of 1915 the two boys and their friends and Brethren talked more of the war
than they had in the autumn, though the subject was not an all at absorbing one; for the trenches
in Flanders and France were still of the immense, remote distance. By no stretch of imagination
could these wet trenches be thought greatly to concern the "frat," the Lumen, or the university.
Really important matters were the doings of the "Track Team," now training in the "Gym" and
on the 'Varsity Field, and, more vital still, the prospects of the Nine. But in May there came
a shock which changed things for a time.

The Lusitania brought to every American a revelation of what had lain so deep in his own heart
that often he had not realized it was there. When the Germans hid in the sea and sent down
the great merchant ship, with American babies and their mothers, and gallantly dying American
gentlemen, there came a change even to girls and boys and professors, until then so preoccupied
with their own little aloof world thousands of miles from the murder.

Fred Mitchell, ever volatile and generous, was one of those who went quite wild. No orator,
he nevertheless made a frantic speech at the week's "frat meetings," cursing the Germans in
the simple old English words that their performance had demonstrated to be applicable, and
going on to demand that the fraternity prepare for its own share in the action of the country.
"I don't care how insignificant we few fellows here to-night may seem," he cried; "we can do
our little, and if everybody in this country's ready to do their own little, why, that'll be
plenty! Brothers, don't you realize that all over the United States to-night the people are
feeling just the way we are here? Millions and millions and millions of them! Wherever there's
an American he's with us--and you bet your bottom dollar there are just a few more Americans
in this country of ours than there are big-mouthed lobsters like that fellow Linski! I tell
you, if Congress only gives the word, there could be an army of five million men in this country
to-morrow, and those dirty baby-killin' dachshunds would hear a word or two from your Uncle
Samuel! Brothers, I demand that something be done right here and now, and by us! I move we
telegraph the Secretary of War to-night and offer him a regiment from this university to go
over and help hang their damn Kaiser."

The motion was hotly seconded and instantly carried. Then followed a much flustered discussion
of the form and phrasing of the proposed telegram, but, after everything seemed to have been
settled, someone ascertained by telephone that the telegraph company would not accept messages
containing words customarily defined as profane; so the telegram had to be rewritten. This
led to further amendment, and it was finally decided to address the senators from that state,
instead of the Secretary of War, and thus in a somewhat modified form the message was finally
despatched.

Next day, news of what the "frat" had done made a great stir in the university; other "frats"
sent telegrams, so did the "Barbarians," haters of the "frats" but joining them in this; while
a small band of "German-American" students found it their duty to go before the faculty and
report these "breaches of neutrality." They protested heavily, demanding the expulsion of the
"breachers" as disloyal citizens, therefore unfit students, but suffered a disappointment;
for the faculty itself had been sending telegrams of similar spirit, addressing not only the
senators and congressmen of the state but the President of the United States. Flabbergasted,
the "German-Americans" retired; they were confused and disgusted by this higher-up outbreak
of unneutrality--it overwhelmed them that citizens of the United States should not remain neutral
in the dispute between the United States and Germany. All day the campus was in ferment.

At twilight, Ramsey was walking meditatively on his way to dinner at the "frat house," across
the campus from his apartment at Mrs. Meig's. Everybody was quiet now, both town and gown;
the students were at their dinners and so were the burghers. Ramsey was late but did not quicken
his thoughtful steps, which were those of one lost in reverie. He had forgotten that spring-time
was all about him, and, with his head down, walked unregardful of the new gayeties flung forth
upon the air by great clusters of flowering shrubs, just come into white blossom and lavender.

He was unconscious that somebody behind him, going the same way, came hastening to overtake
him and called his name, "Ramsey! Ramsey Milholland!" Not until he had been called three times
did he realize that he was being hailed--and in a girl's voice! By that time, the girl herself
was beside him, and Ramsey halted, quite taken aback. The girl was Dora Yocum.

She was pale, a little breathless, and her eyes were bright and severe. "I want to speak to
you," she said, quickly. "I want to ask you about something. Mr. Colburn and Fred Mitchell
are the only people I know in your 'frat' except you, and I haven't seen either of them to-day,
or I'd have asked one of them."

Most uncomfortably astonished, Ramsey took his hands out of his pockets, picked a leaf from
a lilac bush beside the path, and put the stem of the leaf seriously into a corner of his mouth,
before finding anything to say. "Well--well, all right," he finally responded. "I'll tell you--if
it's anything I know about."

"You know about it," said Dora. "That is, you certainly do if you were at your 'frat' meeting
last night. Were you?"

"Yes, I was there," Ramsey answered, wondering what in the world she wanted to know, though
he supposed vaguely that it must be something about Colburn, whom he had several times seen
walking with her. "Of course I couldn't tell you much," he added, with an afterthought. "You
see, a good deal that goes on at a 'frat' meeting isn't supposed to be talked about."

"Yes," she said, smiling faintly, though with a satire that missed him. "I've been a member
of a sorority since September, and I think I have an idea of what could be told or not told.
Suppose we walk on, if you don't mind. My question needn't embarrass you."

Nevertheless, as they slowly went on together, Ramsey was embarrassed. He felt "queer." They
had known each other so long; in a way had shared so much, sitting daily for years near each
other and undergoing the same outward experiences; they had almost "grown up together," yet
this was the first time they had ever talked together or walked together.

"Well--" he said. "If you want to ask anything it's all right for me to tell you--well, I just
as soon, I guess."

"It has nothing to do with the secret proceedings of your 'frat'," said Dora, primly. "What
I want to ask about has been talked of all over the place to-day. Everyone has been saying
it was your 'frat' that sent the first telegram to members of the Government offering support
in case of war with Germany. They say you didn't even wait until to-day, but sent off a message
last night. What I wanted to ask you was whether this story is true or not?"

"Why, yes," said Ramsey, mildly. "That's what we did."

She uttered an exclamation, a sound of grief and of suspicion confirmed. "Ah! I was afraid so!"

"'Afraid so'? What's the matter?" he asked, and because she seemed excited and troubled, he
found himself not quite so embarrassed as he had been at first; for some reason her agitation
made him feel easier. "What was wrong about that?"

"Oh, it's all so shocking and wicked and mistaken!" she cried. "Even the faculty has been doing
it, and half the other 'frats' and sororities! And it was yours that started it."

"Yes, we did," he said, throughly puzzled. "We're the oldest 'frat' here, and of course"--he
chuckled modestly--"of course we think we're the best. Do you mean you believe we ought to've
sat back and let somebody else start it?"

"Oh, no!" she answered, vehemently. "Nobody ought to have started it! That's the trouble; don't
you see? If nobody had started it none of it might have happened. The rest mightn't have caught
it. It mightn't have got into their heads. A war thought is the most contagious thought in
the world; but if it can be kept from starting, it can be kept from being contagious. It's
just when people have got into an emotional state, or a state of smouldering rage, that everybody
ought to be so terribly careful not to think war thoughts or make war speeches--or send war
telegrams! I thought--oh, I was so sure I'd convinced Mr. Colburn of all this, the last time
we talked of it! He seemed to understand, and I was sure he agreed with me." She bit her lip.
"He was only pretending--I see that now!"

"I guess he must 'a' been," said Ramsey, with admirable simplicity. "He didn't talk about anything
like that last night. He was as much for it as anybody."

"I've no doubt!"

Ramsey made bold to look at her out of the side of his eye, and as she was gazing tensely forward
he continued his observation for some time. She was obviously controlling agitation, almost
controlling tears, which seemed to threaten her very wide-open eyes; for those now fully grown
and noticeable eyewinkers of hers were subject to fluctuations indicating such a threat. She
looked "hurt," and Ramsey was touched; there was something human about her, then, after all.
And if he had put his feeling into words at the moment, he would have said that he guessed
maybe he could stand this ole girl, for a few minutes sometimes, better than he'd always thought
he could.

"Well," he said, "Colburn prob'ly wouldn't want to hurt your feelings or anything. Colburn--"

"He? He didn't! I haven't the faintest personal interest in what he did."

"Oh!" said Ramsey. "Well, excuse me; I thought prob'ly you were sore because he'd jollied you
about this pacifist stuff, and then--"

"No!" she said, sharply. "I'm not thinking of his having agreed with me and fooling me about
it. He just wanted to make a pleasant impression on a girl, and said anything he thought would
please her. I don't care whether he does things like that or not. What I care about is that
the principle didn't reach him and that he mocked it! I don't care about a petty treachery
to me, personally, but I--"

Fraternal loyalty could not quite brook this. "Brother Colburn is a perfectly honor'ble man,"
said Ramsey, solemnly. "He is one of the most honor'ble men in this--"

"Of course!" she cried. "Oh, can't I make you understand that I'm not condemning him for a
little flattery to me? I don't care two straws for his showing that I didn't influence him.
He doesn't interest me, please understand."

Ramsey was altogether perplexed. "Well, I don't see what makes you go for him so hard, then."

"I don't."

"But you said he was treach--"

"I don't condemn him for it," she insisted, despairingly. "Don't you see the difference? I'm
not condemning anybody; I'm only lamenting.

"What about?

"About all of you that want war!"

"My golly!" Ramsey exclaimed. "You don't think those Dutchmen were right to drown babies and--"

"No! I think they were ghastly murderers! I think they were detestable and fiendish and monstrous
and--"

"Well, then, my goodness! What do you want?"

"I don't want war!"

"You don't?"

"I want Christianity!" she cried. "I can't think of the Germans without hating them, and so
to-day, when all the world is hating them, I keep myself from thinking of them as much as I
can. Already half the world is full of war; you want to go to war to make things right, but
it won't; it will only make more war!"

"Well, I--"

"Don't you see what you've done, you boys?" she said. "Don't you see what you've done with
your absurd telegram? That started the rest; they thought they all had to send telegrams like
that."

"Well, the faculty--"

"Even they mightn't have thought of it if it hadn't been for the first one. Vengeance is the
most terrible thought; once you put it into people's minds that they ought to have it, it runs
away with them."

"Well, it isn't mostly vengeance we're after, at all. There's a lot more to it than just getting
even with--"

She did not heed him. "You're all blind! You don't see what you're doing; you don't even see
what you've done to this peaceful place here. You've filled it full of thoughts of fury and
killing and massacre--"

"Why, no," said Ramsey. "It was those Dutch did that to us; and, besides, there's more to it
than you--"

"No, there isn't," she interrupted. "It's just the old brutal spirit that nations inherit from
the time they were only tribes; it's the tribe spirit, and an eye for an eye and a tooth for
a tooth. It's those things and the love of fighting--men have always loved to fight. Civilization
hasn't taken it out of them; men still have the brute in them that loves to fight!"

"I don't think so," said Ramsey. "Americans don't love to fight; I don't know about other countries,
but we don't. Of course, here and there, there's some fellow that likes to hunt around for
scrapes, but I never saw more than three or four in my life that acted that way. Of course
a football team often has a scrapper or two on it, but that's different."

"No," she said. "I think you all really love to fight."

Ramsey was roused to become argumentative. "I don't see where you get the idea. Colburn isn't
that way, and back at school there wasn't a single boy that was anything like that."

"What!" She stopped, and turned suddenly to face him.

"What's the matter?" he said, stopping, too. Something he said had startled her, evidently.

"How can you say such a thing?" she cried. "You love to fight!"

"Me?"

"You do! You love fighting. You always have loved fighting."

He was dumbfounded. "Why, I never had a fight in my life!"

She cried out in protest of such prevarication.

"Well, I never did," he insisted, mildly.

"Why, you had a fight about me!"

"No, I didn't."

"With Wesley Bender!"

Ramsey chuckled. "That wasn't a fight!"

"It wasn't?"

"Nothing like one. We were just guyin' him about--about gettin' slicked up, kind of, because
he at in front of you; and he hit me with his book strap and I chased him off. Gracious, no;
that wasn't a fight!"

"But you fought Linski only last fall."

Ramsey chuckled again. "That wasn't even as much like a fight as the one with Wesley. I just
told this Linski I was goin' to give him a punch in the sn-- I just told him to look out because
I was goin' to hit him, and then I did it, and waited to see if he wanted to do anything about
it, and he didn't. That's all there was to it, and it wasn't any more like fighting than--than
feeding chickens is."

She laughed dolefully. "It seems to me rather more like it than that!"

"Well, it wasn't."

They had begun to walk on again, and Ramsey was aware that they had passed the "frat house,"
where his dinner was probably growing cold. He was aware of this, but not sharply or insistently.
Curiously enough, he did not think about it. He had begun to find something pleasant in the
odd interview, and in walking beside a girl, even though the girl was Dora Yocum. He made no
attempt to account to himself for anything so peculiar.

For a while they went slowly together, not speaking, and without destination, though Ramsey
vaguely took it for granted that Dora was going somewhere. But she wasn't. They emerged from
the part of the small town closely built about the university and came out upon a bit of parked
land overlooking the river; and here Dora's steps slowed to an indeterminate halt near a bench
beneath a maple tree.

"I think I'll stay here a while," she said; and as he made no response, she asked, "Hadn't
you better be going back to your 'frat house' for your dinner? I didn't mean for you to come
out of your way with me; I only wanted to get an answer to my question. You'd better be running
back."

"Well--"

He stood irresolute, not sure that he wanted his dinner just then. It would have amazed him
to face the fact deliberately that perhaps he preferred being with Dora Yocum to eating. However,
he faced no such fact, nor any fact, but lingered.

"Well--" he said again.

"You'd better go."

"I guess I can get my dinner pretty near any time. I don't--" He had a thought. "Did you--"

"Did I what?"

"Did you have your dinner before I met you?"

"No."

"Well, aren't you--"

She shook her head. "I don't want any."

"Why not?"

"I don't think people have very much appetite to-day and yesterday," she said, with the hint
of a sad laugh, "all over America."

"No; I guess that's so."

"It's too terrible!" she said. "I can't sit and eat when I think of the Lusitania--of all those
poor, poor people strangling in the water--"

"No; I guess nobody can eat much, if they think about that."

"And of what it's going to bring, if we let it," she went on. "As if this killing weren't enough,
we want to add our killing! Oh, that's the most terrible thing of all--the thing it makes within
us! Don't you understand?"

She turned to him appealingly, and he felt queerer than ever. Dusk had fallen. Where they stood,
under the young-leaved maple tree, there was but a faint lingering of afterglow, and in this
mystery her face glimmered wan and sweet; so that Ramsey, just then, was like one who discovers
an old pan, used in the kitchen, to be made of chased silver.

"Well, I don't feel much like dinner right now," he said. "We--we could sit here awhile on
this bench, prob'ly."

Chapter XV

Ramsey kept very few things from Fred Mitchell, and usually his confidences were immediate
upon the occasion of them; but allowed several weeks to elapse before sketching for his roommate
the outlines of this adventure.

"One thing that was kind o' funny about it, Fred," he said, "I didn't know what to call her."

Mr. Mitchell, stretched upon the window seat in their "study," and looking out over the town
street below and the campus beyond the street, had already thought it tactful to ambush his
profound amusement by turning upon his side, so that his face was toward the window and away
from his companion. "What did you want to call her?" he inquired in a serious voice. "Names?"

"No. You know what I mean. I mean I had to just keep callin' her 'you'; and that gets kind
of freaky when you're talkin' to anybody a good while like that. When she'd be lookin' away
from me, and I'd want to start sayin' something to her, you know, why, I wouldn't know how
to get started exactly, without callin' her something. A person doesn't want to be always startin'
off with 'See here,' or things like that."

"I don't see why you let it trouble you," said Fred. "From how you've always talked about her,
you had a perfectly handy way to start off with anything you wanted to say to her."

"What with?"

"Why didn't you just say, 'Oh, you Teacher's Pet!' That would--"

"Get out! What I mean is, she called me 'Ramsey' without any bother; it seems funny I got stumped
every time I started to say 'Dora.' Someway I couldn't land it, and it certainly would 'a'
sounded crazy to call her 'Miss Yocum' after sittin' in the same room with her every day from
the baby class clear on up through the end of high school. That would 'a' made me out an idiot!"

"What did you call her?" Fred asked.

"Just nothin' at all. I started to call her something or other a hundred times, I guess, and
then I'd balk. I'd get all ready, and kind of make a sort of a sound, and then I'd have to quit."

"She may have thought you had a cold," said Fred, still keeping his back turned.

"I expect maybe she did--though I don't know; most of the time she didn't seem to notice me
much, kind of."

"She didn't?"

"No. She was too upset, I guess, by what she was thinkin' about."

"But if it hadn't been for that," Fred suggested, "you mean she'd have certainly paid more
attention to who was sitting on the bench with her?"

"Get out! You know how it was. Everybody those few days thought we were goin' to have war,
and she was just sure of it, and it upset her. Of course most people were a lot more upset
by what those Dutchmen did to the Lusitania than by the idea of war; and she seemed to feel
as broken up as anybody could be about the Lusitania, but what got her the worst was the notion
of her country wantin' to fight, she said. She really was upset, too, Fred; there wasn't any
puttin' on about it. I guess that ole girl certainly must have a good deal of feeling, because,
doggoned, after we'd been sittin' there a while if she didn't have to get out her handkerchief!
She kept her face turned away from me--just the same as you're doin' now to keep from laughin'--but
honestly, she cried like somebody at a funeral. I felt like the darndest fool!"

"I'm not laughing," said Fred, but he did not prove it by turning so that his face could be
seen. "What did she say?"

"Oh, she didn't say such an awful lot. She said one kind o' funny thing though: she said she
was sorry she couldn't quite control herself, but if anybody had to see her cry she minded
it less because it was an old schoolmate. What struck me so kind o' funny about that is--why,
it looks as if she never knew the way I always hated her so."

"Yes," said Fred. "It wasn't flattering!"

"Well, sir, it isn't, kind of," Ramsey agreed, musingly. "It certainly isn't when you look
at it that way."

"What did you say when she said that?" Fred asked.

"Nothin'. I started to, but I sort of balked again. Well, we kept on sitting there, and afterwhile
she began to talk again and got kind of excited about how no war could do anything or anybody
any good, and all war was wicked, no matter what it was about, and nothin' could be good that
was founded on fear and hate, and every war that ever was fought was always founded on fear
and hate. She said if the Germans wanted to fight us we ought to go to meet them and tell them
we wouldn't fight."

"What did you say?"

"Nothin'. I kind o' started to--but what's the use? She's got that in her head. Besides, how
are you goin' to argue about a thing with a person that's crying about it? I tell you, Fred,
I guess we got to admit, after all, that ole girl certainly must have a lost of heart about
her, anyway. There may not be much fun to her--though of course I wouldn't know hardly any
way to tell about that--but there couldn't be hardly any doubt she's got a lot of feeling.
Well, and then she went on and said old men made wars, but didn't fight; they left the fighting
to the boys, and the suffering to the boy's mothers."

"Yes!" Fred exclaimed, and upon that he turned free of mirth for the moment. "That's the woman
of it, I guess. Send the old men to do the fighting! For the matter of that, I guess my father'd
about a thousand times go himself than see me and my brothers go; but Father's so fat he can't
stoop! You got to be able to stoop to dig a trench, I guess! Well, suppose we sent our old
men up against those Dutchmen; the Dutchmen would just kill the old men, and then come after
the boys anyway, and the boys wouldn't be ready, and they'd get killed, too; and then there
wouldn't be anybody but the Dutchmen left, and that'd be one fine world, wouldn't it?"

"Yes," said Ramsey. "Course I thought of that."

"Did you tell her?"

"No."

"What did you say?"

"Nothin'. I couldn't get started anyway, but, besides, what was the use? But she didn't want
the old men to go; she didn't want anybody to go."

"What did she want the country to do?" Fred asked, impatiently.

"Just what it has been doin', I suppose. Just let things simmer down, and poke along, and let
them do what they like to us."

"I guess so!" said Fred. "Then, afterwhile, when they get some free time on their hands, they'll
come over and make it really interesting for us, because they know we won't do anything but
talk. Yes, I guess the way things are settling down ought to suit Dora. There isn't goin' to
be any war."

"She was pretty sure there was, though," Ramsey said, thoughtfully.

"Oh, of course she was then. We all thought so those few days."

"No. She said she thought it prob'ly wouldn't come right away, but now it was almost sure to
come sometime. She said our telegrams and all the talk and so much feeling and everything showed
her that the war thought that was always in people somewhere had been stirred up so it would
go on and on. She said she knew from the way she felt herself about the Lusitania that a feeling
like that in her would never be absolutely wiped out as long as she lived. But she said her
other feeling about the horribleness of war taught her to keep the first feeling from breaking
out, but with other people it wouldn't; and even if war didn't break out right then, it would
always be ready to, all over the country, and sometime it would, though she was goin' to do
her share to fight it, herself, as long as she could stand. She asked me wouldn't I be one
of the ones to help her."

He paused, and after a moment Fred asked, "Well? What did you say to that?"

"Nothin'. I started to, but--"

Again Fred thought it tactful to turn and look out the window, while the agitation of his shoulders
betrayed him.

"Go on and laugh! Well, so we stayed there quite a while, but before we left she got kind of
more like everyday, you know, the way people do. It was half-past nine when we walked back
in town, and I was commencin' to feel kind of hungry, so I asked her if she wasn't, and she
sort of laughed and seemed to be ashamed of it, as if it were a disgrace or something, but
she said she guessed she was; so I left her by that hedge of lilacs near the observatory and
went on over to the 'Teria and the fruit store, and got some stuffed eggs and olives and half-a-dozen
peanut butter sandwiches and a box o' strawberries--kind of girl-food, you know--and went on
back there, and we ate the stuff up. So then she said she was afraid she'd taken me away from
my dinner and made me a lot of trouble, and so on, and she was sorry, and she told me good-night--"

"What did you say then?"

"Noth-- Oh, shut up! So then she skipped out to her Dorm, and I came on home."

"When did you see her next, Ramsey?"

"I haven't seen her next," said Ramsey. "I haven't seen her at all--not to speak to. I saw
her on Main Street twice since then, but both times she was with some other girls, and they
were across the street, and I couldn't tell if she was lookin' at me--I kind of thought not--so
I thought it might look sort o' nutty to bow to her if she wasn't, so I didn't."

"And you didn't tell her you wouldn't be one of the ones to help her with her pacifism and
anti-war stuff and all that?"

"No. I started to, but-- Shut up!"

Fred sat up, giggling. "So she thinks you will help her. You didn't say anything at all, and
she must think that means she converted you. Why didn't you speak up?"

"Well, I wouldn't argue with her," said Ramsey. Then, after a silence, he seemed to be in need
of sympathetic comprehension. "It was kind o' funny, though, wasn't it?" he said, appealingly.

"What was?"

"The whole business."

"What 'whole bus'--"

"Oh, get out! Her stoppin' me, and me goin' pokin' along with her, and her--well, her crying
and everything, and me being around with her while she felt so upset, I mean. It seems--well,
it does seem kind o' funny to me."

"Why does it?" Fred inquired, preserving his gravity. "Why should it seem funny to you?"

"I don't mean funny like something's funny you laugh at," Ramsey explained laboriously. "I
mean funny like something that's out of the way, and you wonder how it ever happened to happen.
I mean it seems funny I'd ever be sittin' there on a bench with that ole girl I never spoke
to in my life or had anything to do with, and talkin' about the United States goin' to war.
What we were talkin' about, why, that seems just as funny as the rest of it. Lookin' back to
our class picnic, f'r instance, second year of high school, that day I jumped in the creek
after-- Well, you know, it was when I started makin' a fool of myself over a girl. Thank goodness,
I got that out o' my system; it makes me just sick to look back on those days and think of
the fool things I did, and all I thought about that girl. Why, she-- Well, I've got old enough
to see now she was just about as ordinary a girl as there ever was, and if I saw her now I
wouldn't even think she was pretty; I'd prob'ly think she was sort of loud-lookin'. Well, what's
passed is past, and it isn't either here nor there. What I started to say was this: that the
way it begins to look to me, it looks as if nobody can tell in this life a darn thing about
what's goin' to happen, and the things that do happen are the very ones you'd swear were the
last that could. I mean--you look back to that day of the picnic--my! but I was a rube then--well,
I mean you look back to that day, and what do you suppose I'd have thought then if somebody'd
told me the time would ever come when I'd be 'way off here at college sittin' on a bench with
Dora Yocum--with Dora Yocum, in the first place--and her crying, and both of us talking about
the United States goin' to war with Germany! Don't it seem pretty funny to you, Fred, too?"

"But as near as I can make out," Fred said, "that isn't what happened."

"Why isn't it?"

"You say 'and both us talking' and so on. As near as I can make out, you didn't say anything
at all."

"Well, I didn't--much," Ramsey admitted, and returned to his point with almost pathetic persistence.
"But doesn't it seem kind o' funny to you, Fred?"

"Well, I don't know."

"It does to me," Ramsey insisted. "It certainly does to me."

"Yes," said Fred cruelly. "I've noticed you said so, but it don't look any funnier than you
do when you say it."

Suddenly he sent forth a startling shout. "Wow! You're as red as a blushing beet."

"I am not!"

"Y'are!" shouted Fred. "Wow! The ole woman-hater's got the flushes! Oh, look at the pretty posy!"

And, jumping down from the window seat, he began to dance round his much perturbed comrade,
bellowing. Ramsey bore with him for a moment, then sprang upon him; they wrestled vigorously,
broke a chair, and went to the floor with a crash that gave the chandelier in Mrs. Meig's parlour,
below, an attack of jingles.

"You let me up!" Fred gasped.

"You take your solemn oath to shut up? You goin' to swear it?"

"All right. I give my solemn oath," said Fred; and they rose, arranging their tousled attire.

"Well," said Fred, "when you goin' to call on her?"

"You look here!" Ramsey approached him dangerously. "You just gave me your sol--"

"I beg!" Fred cried, retreating. "I mean, aside from all that, why, I just thought maybe after
such an evening you'd feel as a gentleman you ought to go and ask about her health."

"Now, see here--"

"No, I mean it; you ought to," Fred insisted, earnestly, and as his roommate glared at him
with complete suspicion, he added, in explanation. "You ought to go next Caller's Night, and
send in your card, and say you felt you ought to ask if she'd suffered any from the night air.
Even if you couldn't manage to say that, you ought to start to say it, anyhow, because you--
Keep off o' me! I'm only tryin' to do you a good turn, ain't I?"

"You save your good turns for yourself," Ramsey growled, still advancing upon him.

But the insidious Mitchell, evading him, fled to the other end of the room, picked up his cap,
and changed his manner. "Come on, ole bag o' beans, let's be on our way to the 'frat house';
it's time. We'll call this all off."

"You better!" Ramsey warned him; and they trotted out together.

But as they went along, Fred took Ramsey's arm confidentially, and said, "Now, honestly, Ram,
ole man, when are you goin' to--"

Ramsey was still red. "You look here! Just say one more word--"

"Oh, no," Fred expostulated. "I mean seriously, Ramsey. Honestly, I mean seriously. Aren't
you seriously goin' to call on her some Caller's Night?"

"No, I'm not!"

"But why not?"

"Because I don't want to."

"Well, seriously, Ramsey, there's only one Caller's Night before vacation, and so I suppose
it hardly will be worth while; but I expect you'll see quite a little of her at home this summer?"

"No, I won't. I won't see her at all. She isn't goin' to be home this summer, and I wouldn't
see anything of her if she was."

"Where's she goin' to be."

"In Chicago."

"She is?" said Fred, slyly. "When'd she tell you?"

Ramsey turned on him. "You look out! She didn't tell me. I just happened to see in the Bulletin
she's signed up with some other girls to go and do settlement work in Chicago. Anybody could
see it. It was printed out plain. You could have seen it just as well as I could, if you'd
read the Bulletin."

"Oh," said Fred.

"Now look here--"

"Good heavens! Can't I even say 'oh'?"

"It depends on the way you say it."

"I'll be careful," Fred assured him, earnestly. "I really and honestly don't mean to get you
excited about all this, Ramsey. I can see myself you haven't changed from your old opinion
of Dora Yocum a bit. I was only tryin' to get a little rise out of you for a minute, because
of course, seriously, why, I can see you hate her just the same as you always did."

"Yes," said Ramsey, disarmed and guileless in the face of diplomacy. "I only told you about
all this, Fred, because it seemed--well, it seemed so kind o' funny to me."

Fred affected not to hear. "What did you say, Ramsey?"

Ramsey looked vaguely disturbed. "I said--why, I said it all seemed kind o'--" He paused, then
repeated plaintively: "Well, to me, it all seemed kind o'--kind o' funny."

"What did?" Fred inquired, but as he glanced in seeming naivete at his companion, something
he saw in the latter's eye warned him, and suddenly Fred thought it would be better to run.

Ramsey chased him all the way to the "frat house."

Chapter XVI

Ramsey was not quite athlete enough for any of the 'varsity teams; neither was he an antagonist
safely encountered, whether in play or in earnest, and during the next few days he taught Fred
Mitchell to be cautious. The chaffer learned that his own agility could not save him from Ramsey,
and so found it wiser to contain an effervescence which sometimes threatened to burst him.
Ramsey as a victim was a continuous temptation, he was so good-natured and yet so furious.

After Commencement, when the roommates had gone home, Mr. Mitchell's caution extended over
the long sunshiny months of summer vacation; he broke it but once and then in well-advised
safety, for the occasion was semi-public. The two were out for a stroll on a July Sunday afternoon;
and up and down the street young couples lolled along, young families and baby carriages straggled
to and from the houses of older relatives, and the rest of the world of that growing city was
rocking and fanning itself on its front veranda.

"Here's a right pretty place, isn't it, Ramsey? don't you think?" Fred remarked innocently,
as they were passing a lawn of short-clipped, bright green grass before a genial-looking house,
fresh in white paint and cool in green-and-white awnings. A broad veranda, well populated just
now, crossed the front of the house; fine trees helped the awnings to give comfort against
the sun; and Fred's remark was warranted. Nevertheless, he fell under the suspicion of his
companion, who had begun to evince some nervousness before Fred spoke.

"What place do you mean?"

"The Yocum place," said Mr. Mitchell. "I hear the old gentleman's mighty prosperous these days.
They keep things up to the mark, don't they, Ramsey?"

"I don't know whether they do or whether they don't," Ramsey returned shortly.

Fred appeared to muse regretfully. "It looks kind of empty now, though," he said, "with only
Mr. and Mrs. Yocum and their three married daughters, and eight or nine children on the front
porch!"

"You wait till I get you where they can't see us!" Ramsey warned him, fiercely.

"You can't do it!" said Fred, manifesting triumph. "We'll both stop right here in plain sight
of the whole Yocum family connection till you promise not to touch me."

And he halted, leaning back implacably against the Yocum's iron fence. Ramsey was scandalized.

"Come on!" he said, hoarsely. "Don't stop here!"

"I will, and if you go on alone I'll yell at you. You got to stand right here with all of 'em
lookin' at you until--"

"I promise! My heavens, come on!"

Fred consented to end the moment of agony; and for the rest of the summer found it impossible
to persuade Ramsey to pass that house in his company. "I won't do it!" Ramsey told him. "Your
word of honour means nothin' to me; you're liable to do anything that comes into your head,
and I'm gettin' old enough to not get a reputation for bein' seen with people that act the
idiot on the public streets. This tree covered the tent of my father, away from us the sun, and
stay away flies, when we sleep in the day.

Our wrap in virgin hair, and if they die, spread over their graves.

Therefore, I can not stop loving is better than anything else. But, as you say it makes you sick,
it will love, or to gather more of this. "Then her words became almost inarticulate sobs, as
he added, -" Why do I use it now? "I belong to a stranger!. My father is gone!"  "Needless to say
I have not only returned to the flowers, and pleaded my ignorance,
but I approached the hill, and got up the tree by the roots."

Sweet sister, I said, 'I was only angry because you abused the favorite tree of our country,
the rose. But now, when the sun shines on it, and I see it closer, '- looking at her, - "I
think the pink might envy, as the most beautiful women in my country would envy. I will plant it
in the garden.
"Oh, how good you are," she cried, And I will plant a rose bush near her, and mix sweets, because
our love and care for them will be living together without envy.

Everything must be loved. I love every tree, and fruits, and flowers. "
"However I have noticed, since his clothes were fine mess, your chest hairy little fluttered
like a captive bird panting for freedom, and in turn their thoughts of what had hurt, he said:
-" Fear not, Zela dear. He had made subsequent appearances,
far from brilliant yet not disgraceful, and as a spectator, at least, he usually felt rather
at his ease in the place. 1. and 7.; viii. 24.) and Diodorus (i. 35.) Contrast treatise by Camus,
"Notes sur l'Histoire des Animaux d'Aristotle", p. 418.
It would seem that nary a single Greek writer had ever laid eyes upon a living hippopotamus; and
no account is extant of this particular species having been transported to Greece, such as was
a live tiger whose ultimate desination was, courtesy of Seleucus, the city of Athens. Pliny offers
(H. N., viii. 40.), along with Ammianus Marcellinus (xxii. 15.), that the Romans first encountered
this animal in the exalted edileship of Æmilius Scaurus, in 58 B.C.,
when at the Games, a hippo and five crocodiles were put on display
in a specially constructed temporary watercourse.

Dio Cassius, however, avers that Cæsar Augustus was the first to exhibit a rhinocerus and
a hippopotamus to the Roman citizenry in 29 B.C. (li. 22.) A number of crocodiles and hippopotami,
along with other unusual animals, were subsequently exhibited during the Games at Rome in
the era of Antonius Pius (A.D. 138-80. See Jul. Capitolin. in Anton. Pio, c. 10.) and Commodus,
as part of his diverse adventures of animal combat in the arena, put to the sword up to five
hippopotami (A.D. 180-92. See Dio Cass. lxxii. 10. and 19., and Gibbon,
c. 4.).

The upstart Firmus, the Egyptian pretender to Emperor in the years of Aurelian, 273 A.D., was
reported to have rode upon the back of a hippo (Flav. Vopiscus, in Firmo, c. 6.): but it is
suspected that the stunt actually took place in Alexandria. The hippopotamus, being indigenous
to the Upper Nile River, was not well known to the ancient peoples
of Euro-Asia.

Fantastic stories of the animal's habits are related by Pliny, H. N., viii. 39, 40., and by Ælian,
De Nat. An., v. 53. vii. 19. Achilles Tatius, whose works date as late as the last half of the
fifth century A.D., claims that it was fire- and smoke-breathing (iv. 2.); whereas, Damascius,
who lived almost at the same general time, asserted that the hippo was an unscrupulous creature,
and, in fact, is the very represntation of Injustice as a hieroglyphic character; because it
starts by dispatching its  father and then rapes its mother (ap. Phot. Bibl. cod. 242., p.
322., b. 36. ed. Bekker.). Strabo (xv. 1.) and Arrian (Ind., c. 6.) offer that the progeny issuing
from the Indian rivers are quite like that of Ethiopia and Egypt,
with the notable exception of the hippopotamus.

They note, nevertheless, that Onesicritus maintained, that this was not, in fact, an exception
as the hippopotamus was indeed to be found in the Indian rivers. Onesicritus' assertion was obviously
wrong.

Herodotus, Aristotle, and various other Greek writers consistently
called the aminal "hippos potamios".

Subsequently, Latin writers referred to it with the incorrectly formed compound "hippo-potamus";
which by strict Greek composition rules, means "horse-river", rather
than "river-horse", as was intended.

The only Greek writer who used the compound "hippopotamus" in their
writings was was Damascius, who authored in the Sixth Century A.D..
Achiles Tatius, a near contemporary, refers to the animal as "hippos
tou Neilou", which he asserted was the Egyptian term for it.

It seems likely that the modern word "hippopotamus" is a Roman misapplication of the Greek substantive
and adjective, and {36} is not an acceptable Greek word. Why the hippo reminede the ancients of a
horse is not clear.
 You sit down--I mean anybody's spine, doggone
it!" And as Ramsey increased the manifestations of his suspicions, lifting a tennis racket
over the prostrate figure, "Oh, murder," Fred said, resignedly. Hemorrhage from the mucous membrane
of the stomach after abdominal surgery--also possibly resulting from
toxins rather than from the surgery--causes what is known as post-operative
haematemesis.

Constitutional Effects of Hemorrhage.

The intensity of the symptoms that are caused by the hemorrhage depends
both on the rate of the bleeding that occurs and on the volume of
blood that is lost.

If a large amount of blood is lost, either from an open wound or into a serous cavity--after
an injury to the liver or spleen, for example--results in significant pallor of the patient and
a drop in the skin temperature, particularly on the face and the extremities. The skin becomes
moist and will feel cold and clammy. Beads of sweat will be noticed on the forehead. The patient
will have a rapid and feeble pulse, will feel fatigued, listless, and very thirsty. Other symptoms
include low temperature and fast, shallow, and labored breathing. The patient will experience
unusual visual phenomena such as light flashes or spots in the field of vision, and unusual sounds
such as a buzzing, rushing, or ringing.

In particularly severe cases, the patient may experience a set of symptoms that are characterized
as "air hunger." Because of the insufficient amount of blood in the circulatory system, and the
reduced content of hemoglobin in the blood, the patient's tissues
are not sufficiently oxygenated. This will cause the patient to experience
significant restlessness. He will gasp for air, flail his arms, and
clutch at his chest in the desperate attempt to draw a full breath. 

At that time The Zulu arose, thanked us profusely for our presents to him, and, giving a solemn
wink, flew out of sight.
A day later he informed us that he wished that we consume every treat we had bought, even if he
was not in the area at the time. The admiral ordered the spare and stream anchors
to be detached and all lower deck guns to be thrown overboard on the morning of the 20th. By
evening the people began to get tired even the most courageous began to fail and they started
saying with despair, that if they do not leave the ship, they might come to grief. At this point
the admiral approached them and said that he and his officers regarded their own lives as
equal, and they won’t desert them or the ship. He had decided to try one more night in the
ship and hoped they would also stay because there was hope that on a fine day when the sea
is moderate united effort would enable them to restore the chains to the pumps and use them
against the invading weight; so that enough men would be there to hoist the jury-masts which may carry
the ship to Ireland; there the looks of the ship will protect the convoy, and since everything
is done for her relief it is quite a reasonable thing to wait for
the results.

Finally he assured them, that the signal would be made directly for the trade to be with them
at night, which they would surely comply with. This fire of speech brought its wanted results;
his firm and confident speech, and their faith on his skill and judgment, his company and concern
about every accident made them calm and return to their duty and their hard work. The admiral was
in the deck since the first disaster, inspecting every incident of
danger.

Observing this and knowledge of his skill and experience made them
rely on him; the signal was made for all the merchantmen by him as
promised.

There was then only great reason for alarm and little for hope; though all heavy things such as
the anchors, all guns but one, were thrown overboard the ship did not seem relieved at all.

The people were also nearly exhausted, sleepless since the first fatal
attack, so half the crew members were asked to work while the other
rested; though the water gained upon them the ship moved most exceptionally
in the most restless sea.

On the fourth night, that is the 21st, the broken well, the casks, ballast and remaining shot
rushed and destroyed the cylinders of the pumps; the frame of the ship started to fail and
the whole crew exclaimed that to keep her above water is not possible any more.
At this severe condition the admiral, decided to remove people whenever day-light came but asked
the captain not to reveal anything more than that he had decided to remove the sick and the
lame; and he should call all the boats of the merchants for this.



"How could I do anything like that?" Ramsey demanded explosively. "I never see her--to speak
to, that is. At the casualty clearing station, which was located in Gomery, Dr. Sedillot was in
charge of caring for numerous wounded German soldiers.

The station passed inspection by a German officer accompanised by twenty five of his men. The
majority of the party retired, however, an N.C.O. and a party of soldiers remained in the street
outside.

They became rambunctious and began shouting, "It is war to the death,"
while making signs of cutting throats.

The soldiers rushed into the station, shot down Dr. Sedillot (who was fortunate enough to
survive), and set fire to the place. The wounded, many of whom had underwent amputations that
very morning, leapt out of the first story windows to escape the flames. They were picked up by
executioners who gathered the wounded soldiers and mercilessly shot them. Among the one hundred
to one hudred twenty five murdered were Lieutenant Jeannin and Dr. Charette.
Sadly, these deaths seem more humane when compared to the torturous starvation suffered by over
two hundred Frenchmen. These men, along with Dr. Bender, were brought to the Stenay barracks.
A large number of these men were in terrible conditions, having been left out unattended in the
battle field for five days.

Dr. Bender begged the German soldiers for help in transporting the wounded to a hospital.
The Boches refused to offer any aid to the suffering men. Dr. Bender, along with two male
nurses, tended to the massive number of wounded men themselves. For several days, they received
no food from the Boches. Sadly, most of these men died of neglect.
Boche doctors have a notorious history of performing horrible deeds. The most hideous hero of
this sad bunch comes from a tale told by Dr. Bender.
 "I command this regiment, sir," replied the Colonel, who, at the
end of the march that day, was busied in the management of detail where to pitch tents Head-quarter.

"Goin 'to stay yer - right to plant it?" continued the man, in common with the word Negro half
the white South.
"That's what our goal making, sir. Are you the owner?"
"Yaas," drawled the man, stretched his bow felt still further over
his eyes.

"Plants have been the best part of my hull farm."
"Great country, this," broke in the Quarter-Master. "Why kill a deer can not fly over it without carrying
a knapsack. You do not think that camping in this plant is vulnerable to any of it, do you?"

"Right this wise, I hope," rejoined the man, his eyes kindling somewhat,
"right smart, it is.

$ 1500 at least."
"What! What is the land cost you?"

"Wall, I paid at the rate of $ 15 acre for 118 acres, and buildings
and 12 acres of this is that this plant, and the best bit of it, too."

"After that you pay us to do almost what the whole farm cost you plant using a night?"
"Wall, I hope that's how Rails will all be lost, and the lawn all
cut up, and ----"

"Well, I hope," interrupted the Quarter-Master, "you must prove your
loyalty before you talk about claiming damages from Uncle Sam."

"Oh! I nary side, nary edge," and she looked suspiciously about half the crowd, now somewhat increased.
"I'm too old, besides, my left knee is disabled up bad," limp that he said it, to sustain his assertion.

"Where are your children?"
"My two sons and son-in-law is off to South, but I'm not 'countable for them."
"Well, sir, you have to prove your loyalty before you get a receipt
from me for any amount." 
"Verify my loyalty?" he muttered, looking
at the same time blank. "What kind of swearin 'do you have for that?"
"Do not swear at him at all, at all," nothing in the small Irish
Corporal. "Oath is not a substitute for swinging. Faith! He's up in
business. It was to marry and to drink with him. Make him a whistle
Yankee Doodle or singing Hail Columbia. Be jabers, it is not in his
appearance to do it without choking. " 
Terence's suggestion met
with a general laugh of approval. Clinging to him, she half walked,
half fell down a few steps. But she had fallen, Hozier weight was almost more than he could
handle, but she clung to him desperately, saved him from a precipitous
decline in housing, and literally took him to the forecastle, where
he found some of the crew who were there ran like rabbits from their
burrows when the first shell crashed into the engine room.

Iris beautiful eyes of a ray launched against them.
"call the men themselves," cried a shrill voice, "but let one of his officers lying on the deck to
be shot by the demons!"
"We did not know was there, miss, "said one. "We have been 'brought him right if we did enough."

Even in its current stress emotions, the words of the sailor sounded reasonable. Each person
on board was so greatly surprised by this monstrous attack as herself,
and firing now seemed to increase in volume and accuracy.

Several bullets rang against the funnel or splinters broke huge boats.
"Gord A'mightly, hear it, " growled a voice. "And we shut up here, burned in a pile of rotten
Dagos, not with a gun in our name!"
Iris continued to support Hozier, whose head and shoulders were pillow
against her chest as she knelt behind him.

"And there's that?" He asked. "I think the captain of Coca-Cola has been murdered. Mr. Hozier
is badly injured, I'm afraid. Bring a little water, if possible."
"Yes, yes, water... Just a bump on the head.... What happened? What is that noise of shots? 
Hozier
scattered wits returned, although neither he nor Iris remember that
Andromeda was without water.

He looked after the men, and he smiled as his eyes met hers again.
"It's funny!" He said with a natural tone was reassuring. "I thought
the windlass crashed into pieces.

But he could. What did you hit?"

"A bullet fired from the island," she said.

Hozier rose slightly. He was hearing wonders, though far from understanding, for the moment.

"A shell!" repeated stupidly. Had it said "comet" could not have sounded more incredible.
"Yes I could have killed him. several of the men are dead.

I myself have seen three of them died instantly and two others are seriously injured."
"Here you are, sir - drink this," said a firefighter, it offers a
pot of beer.

It like difficult to accept things, but it tasted like nectar of
the gods who had suffered a blow that would have felled an ox.

Hozier had almost emptied the can when an exclamation of a stoker
of Ireland noted that all eyes to the next part of the ship.

"Holy War! Are you going to do that!" Cried the man. "Of course the
captain is not dead at all, whatsoever."

Irish had not grasped the meaning of the Coca-cola antics at the table
in the room, but had been fully explained.

The bulldog breed this confessed rascal had taken advantage of him.

Although he had not felt scruples to trace the destruction of the
ship, and therefore draw a marine insurance comapany a considerable
sum of money - but at that moment there was no concrete evidence of
his regime in the  preparations that had address made jam speeds
when the anchor war raised after the tanks were replaced - was not
in the nature of man to hide in relative safety, because a foreigner,
a pirate, a portygee not-to-be- mentioned-in- polite society, opened
fire on him in this way killer.

Moreover, the villainy of Coca-Cola have been culled and not live.

The Andromeda could be scrapped, and hence to the back, distorted
arithmetic, money invested in it.

But his white covers would not be stained with blood. Whatever has caused the risk would be
yours, the master responsible, his only. It was something very different than the shot and
shell to be something very different than the shot and shell to be raining on a ship without
weapons by the troops of a civilized power when looking for the lowest form of entertainment.
No wonder if the pattern of bull neck foaming at the mouth and the
words used banned by the catechism, nothing strange if it was powerless
to express their anger in a final act of defiance.

He searched the lockers for a flag of the United Kingdom and the four indicators that show
the ship's name in the letters of the signal.
 

At that moment Hannaford felt he could die happily for her.

"I'm unsure of what anyone else thinks," he said. "I have known for some time now, almost at once,
that you were a truly inexperienced type of maid enjoying yourself in a new way, and losing
your head over it some what. Maybe it's because I've had the depression we talked about, and
have a changed outlook on life, I see things clearer. I don't know what you did or were until
you came here, but I suddenly realized this night you are just a girl. There is no worldly knowledge
in you. You are what I said. You're Galatea." 
"You recognize this
without any words," she cried. "And yet----" She stayed her words
that wanted to come forward. Words that would have shamed her. 

RITA (from inside): What is wrong? What is going on?

BERTHA (speaking from the doorway): The man over here really wants
to come see you.

He is on his way through here.

RITA (inside; chuckles): Invite him
to come inside.

(Bertha leaves.)

(Friedrich stood at the middle
door.)

RITA: Hello? How is there? Friedrich -- I will be right there.

BERTHA
(walks outside and stares at Friedrich in shock): My boss wants you
to wait for her here. (She looks at Friedrich one more time and then
leaves.)

(Friedrich looked around in shy embarassment.)

Chapter XVIII

So everywhere over the country, that winter of 1916, there were light-hearted boys skylarking--at
college, or on the farms; and in the towns the young machinists snowballed one another as they
came from the shops; while on this Sunday of the "frat" snow fight probably several hundreds
of thousands of youthful bachelors, between the two oceans, went walking, like Ramsey, each
with a girl who could forget the weather. ONE PUNCH Brigade.
[Footnote A: Physical training.]
* * * * *
"Home Secretary gives notice that summer will be brought into force this year on the morning of
Sunday, 30.3, and will continue until Sunday night-Monday, September
28 129." - Scottish Paper.

By that time, it is confidently expected, the Peace Conference will be over. Here is a combat veteran
writes a brilliant man (I do not use this word as a cliche) and chronic another comment battles,
battles which covers the same period were generally fought for the same reasons. But extremist
Radical French could never see its way to subscribe to the socialist creed. its individualism
decided, partly temperamental, was also working as a political faith, a distrust of logic outcome
divorced actual management experience and responsibility.

Somewhat like the English Socialists refused to let the logic of internationalism premature
release so many of his colleagues, did not share their confidence so ruthlessly betrayed the
German social democracy, or as having power or serious intention to counter the German imperialism.
If the achievement of a man to be properly quantified by the difficulties he has overcome, and
M. Clemenceau, and I involuntarily called the most desperate crisis
distracted and sad fate of France beat the enemy and move legions
ready selling by false friends, may well justify the verdict Mr. HYNDMAN
him as Member of the Great War. The old hero's has sent to the public meeting in Portland
the message which celebrated his ninety-third birthday that the purpose of his life work will
be fully accomplished and my hoped the obstacles which now obstructed will not long block the
way. The reverses saddened Neal Dow, who will be always memorable as one of the truest, bravest
and purest philanthropists of the nineteenth century.
The National Temperance Society and Publication House is the most
important organization for the promotion of temperance in our country,
was founded in 1865.

Its constitution was prepared by me,thethe committee which organized it met in the counting room
of that eminent Christian merchant, the late Hon. William E. Dodge.William E. Dodge, the Shaftesbury
of America, was introduced to the Earl of Shaftesbury at a Lord Mayor's reception in London.
To this day he is remembered as an ideal Christian merchant and philanthropist. With him conscience
ruled everything, which was ruled by God. He was one of the founders of a great railway and
cut the first sod for its construction. The Board of Directors of the road proposed to drive
their trains and traffic through the Lord's day.

Mr. Dodge said to his fellow directors by resigning from the Board that God's law for a dividend
is broken.He went out, and disposed of his stock, the stock sank to thirty cents on the dollar
within a few years the road went into the hands of a receiver.
General Dix and his military staff gave Mr. Dodge a complimentary dinner at Fortress Monroe, during
the Civil War, General Dix hitted on the table and said to his brother officers: "Gentlemen,
you are aware that our honored guest is a water-drinker.

I propose that to-day we join him in his favorite beverage." Every wine-glass was turned upside
down as a silent tribute to the Christian conscience of their guest. When the whole Christian
community of America shall imitate the wise example of that great philanthropist a tremendous
influence for avoiding of all intoxicants from the public and private hospitalities of society.
Mr. Dodge was elected the first president of the National Temperance Society, and served it
for eighteen years. He closed his useful and beneficent life in February, 1883, and he was
succeeded in the presidency of the Society by Dr. Mark Hopkins of Williams College, by the writer
of this book, by General O.O. Howard and by Joshua L. Bailey, who is at present the head of
the organization. The society has done a benevolent work by receiving and spending a million
and a half dollars, with publishing and widely circulated tracts.
The limits of this chapter will not allow to pay tribute to the venerable Dr. Charles Jewett,
Dr. Cheever, Albert Barnes, Dr. Tyng and the great Christian statesman, Theodore Frelinghuysen,
Miss Frances Willard, Lady Henry Somerset, Joseph Cook and many others who have been prominent
in the promotion of this great Christian reform. I have prepared thirty or forty tracts, written
a great number of articles and delivered hundreds of addresses in behalf of it, and preached many a discourse from
my own pulpit

. "Then,"
I replied in a proud manner, "A poet I will be." Serventius and Hereupon chuckled, and told
me that a poet's profession, and they used the term loosely, was
full of tedious work, no gratitude, and very little or no pay at all,
and that a poet was merely one step above a beggar.

The Bar and Church were brought into the conversation, but as I voiced
my dislike for them both, the profession of medicine was named by
Serventius.

I replied with happiness, "Yes, I would like to be a doctor;" due
to the business, stature, visiting, and gossiping of the respected
brotherhood of physicians, this gave me the impression that the medical
profession was a profession of pure happiness.

A choice deserving pity! An unhappy passion!
 Anno Domini 1884: Mr. William Woodall tries again, and loses; who to thank for that?
Gladstone, the same politician who contributed to the death of another bill eight years later,
when Mr. A.J. Balfour was pushing it.

Nowadays, British women are not franchised to vote on major issues of comprehesive governmental
policy and they are not eligible to run for higher governmental positions.

In spite of that, they have made great strides, and I will elborate hereafter; and with regard
to this fact, I will also touch briefly on their progress in the colonies.
In 1850, Ontario, Canada extended school suffrage to all adult women
citizens.

Then, in 1867, New South Wales gave women municipal suffrage. A couple of years later, England
instituted municipal suffrage for single women and widows. Victoria granted it to all women,
single or married.

In 1870, England passed the Education Act, which established school boards and giving women the
identical rights as those given to men, regarding electing and running
for election.

Subsequently, in 1871, West Australia legislated municipal suffrage
for women; in 1878, New Zealand extended school suffrage.

In 1880, South Australia acceded municipal suffrage. In 1881, widows and unmarried women were
accorded municipal suffrage in Scotland, and parliamentary suffrage on the Isle of Man. Women
got the municipal vote in Ontario and Tasmania by 1884, and in New
Zealand and New Brunswick two years later.

By 1887, Nova Scotia and Manitoba fell into line. One year thence, the British nation consigned
to women county-level suffrage, and British Columbia and the Northwest Territories gave them
municipal suffrage. In 1889, county suffrage was bequeathed to Scottish women, and municipal suffrage
was legislated for unmarried women and widows in Quebec Province. Then, in 1893, New Zealand
extended full suffrage to the distaff population. A year later, parish and district suffrage would
be given to married and single women in England, along with the right to elect and be elected
to councils at those levels. By 1895, South Australia had made state
suffrage universal in the province.

In 1898, Irish women were extended suffrage with respect to all
governmental officials with the exception of parliamentary members.

At the turn of the century, West Australia was the next to mandate full state suffrage for both
sexes. In 1902, full national suffrage was given to all adult females in federated Australia and
full state suffrage to the same residing in New South Wales. By the following year, Tasmania
had given full state suffrage; and, in 1905, Queensland followed suit, to be emulated by Victoria
in 1908. The year before, England passed legislation amking women eligible to run as mayors,
alderman, and county and town councillors. In London particularly, women can, at this time,
vote for twenty-eight borough councils and thirty-one boards of guardians of the London City
Council; in addition, they may run for these same offices; take membership in in the central
unemployed body or in the twenty-three district committees, and may be absorbed into any of the
other bodies, such as, the local pension committees. Women can be alderman of the Council,
and they are not disallowed from being appointed to the chairmanship.  Presently, the movement
for woman suffrage in England is nurtured for the most part by two
coalitions, each having its own unique approach.

The National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies has instituted a
"constitutional" or pacifistic policy, while the National Women's
Social and Political Union is confrontational and bullying.

 I am not at all fond of drawing rooms, jets of water,of bowers or
flower-beds. Instead i like pamphlets, harpsichords, games, knots, stupid witticisms, simpering
looks,pretty story tellers and heavy suppers in a bush, barn , a
meadow .

When I was passing through a hamlet a sweet smell of parsley omelet
tempted me.

 With new interest in his Right Honorable friend,
GRANDOLPH spoke:

"Well, I must say, I never would have thought it."
Business was complete and the Parish Councils Bill was brought in.
On Thursday, regarding the question on a Vote of Censure, Pretty is
to watch Mr. G. in conversation with Prince ARTHUR. 

In the Gardeners' history for September 25, of that year, page 398, it is said that the boxwood
woodland of Mingrelia in the Caucasian collection were almost bushed.

Old woodland,extended discarded, were even then discover in seek
out of trees that might have fugitive the notice of earlier administrator,
and wood that was discarded by them was, in 1875, keenly acquireed
at high cost for England.At that time the export of wood was forbidden
from Abhasia and all the government woodland in the Caucasus.

 The fig. 12 shows carbon packing, in which blocks of carbon are contained.
These blocks are present in sets in a packing case. The packing case is bolted to the top head of
the wheel-case. The packing consist of three sets of blocks. Each set is divided into three segments,
having two rings. In the case the joints are broken with its mate by the ring of segments. A flange
in the case separates each set from each other.

The packing is set aside from turning by means of a link in some
cases.

In certain situations one end is fastened to the case and the other
to the packing holder.

The packing against the shaft is held by light springs in some cases.

In certain cases, the pressure of the case does the job.

The pressure in the pipe is being reduced which is shown in the figure,
leading from the main line to the packing case.

By means of a three-way cock, the gap between the two upper sets of rings is drained to the third
stage. The cock maintains the stability between the atmosphere and packing-case pressure.
The carbon rings are built-in to the shaft started with a slight
clearance.

A smooth finish is obtained rapidly which is practically both steam-light and frictionless. The
carbon ring drawn in traditional design is shown in Fig. 12. Spiral springs set in brass ferrules
aid the segments to hold in opposition to the flat bearing surface
of the case.

The circle is held jointly by a bronze strap.

This strap is screwed and drawn mutually at the ends by springs.

Whereas other springs press the straps against the surface.

This surface bears the carbon which cuts off leaks through joints
and across horizontal surfaces of the carbon.

A connecting-rod prevents the whole ring from turning by which a pin is engaged in the hole.
These holes are similar to those which are provided by the strings.
 Sir,he is coming next week in the
office. Please be polite and sweet sounded to him.
Mr. Crotchet asked the doctor whether he is comng to Chainmail Hall on Christmas Day?
REV.DR.FOLLIOTT said that he will be their for the dinner.
Mr. Crotchet said that he has not seen his neighbour since he left them on the canal.
REV.DR.FOLLIOTT replied that he has a wife and brought her home.

LADY CLARINDA said that she suits him,she must have a distinguishing
character.

It will be amazing to see them together.

LORD BOSSNOWL exclaimed really amazing.

Ha! Ha!

He further asked to Mr. Firedamp that is there any water body near
Chainmail Hall?

REV.DR.FOLLIOTT replied an old Moat.

Mr. Firedamp said that he can die from malaria.
Mr. Trillo said that can they hear some music ?

REV.DR.FOLLIOTT replied an old Harper.
Mr. Trillo replied that the old Harpers are always out of tune and
asked what will they play?

REV.DR.FOLLIOTT replied old songs and marches.
Mr. Skionar got an idea of finding old philosophy.

REV.DR.FOLLIOTT replied an old women.
MR.PHOLPOT said even they have an idea of finding old map of the river in twelth centuary. 
REV.DR.FOLLIOTT
supported his idea.
MR.MAC QUEDY interupted them.
REV.DR.FOLLIOTT gave ideas such as old hospitality,old wine,images
of old england,an old butler.

MR.TOOGOOD asked wheather they all are allowed.

REV.DR.FOLLIOTT obviously we will be welcomed in a respectfull manner,calling
old boy.

LORD BOSSNOWL sarcastically argued said they should all wear their old clothes.
REV.DR.FOLLIOTT added to Lord Bossnowl that he will sit on the old
chairs surounding the table,with old lamps suspended from pointed
arches.Mr.Chainmail then added that they should get used to wit the
twelth cenrury,wiyth old armous on the pillars and roofs with old
banners. 
 LADY CLARINDA interupted and asked what curious piece
of antiquity is the lady of mansion. 
REV.DR.FOLLIOTT disagreed.
LADY CLARINDA asked that who is the lady of mansion? 
REV.DR.FOLLIOTT
replied he don't know. 
LADY CLARINDA furthur asked whether he has
seen her or not? 
REV.DR.FOLLIOTT said yes he has. 
LADY CLARINDA
asked whether she is preety? 
REV.DR.FOLLIOTT answered describing
her that she is very beautiful,intelligent,radiant and lovely with
virtue quallities.Her face is example of antigone. The origin of life, any present perception
may have been 'true' - if such a word then it might be applicable. Later, when the reactions
have been organized, the reactions became 'true' whenever the expectation was fulfilled by them.
Otherwise, were "false" or "wrong" responses. But the same class of objects needs the same
type of reaction, so the impulse to react consistently must gradually have been established,
and a disappointment when the expected results frustrated.

Here's a perfectly plausible germ for all our major consistencies. Today, if an object claims
from us a reaction of the type normally given only to the opposite class of objects, our mind
machine refuses to run smoothly. The situation is intellectually unsatisfactory.
theoretical truth thus falls within the mind, with the agreement of some of its processes and
objects with other processes and objects - 'agreement' that is here in well-defined relations.
While the satisfaction of feeling like an agreement we are denied any collateral benefit may
seem to exert what we are like dust in the balance - if we are highly
organized intellectually, which most of us are not.

The amount of the deal that fits most men and women is merely the absence of violent clash between
their usual thoughts and statements and the limited area of sensory perception in which their
lives are cast.
 Everything needed was to be initiate there,--large nerve
bedsteads with snow-white covering, all the modern contrivance for the bathroom, chest of
drawers, each surmounted by a intense looking-glass; even a numeral of tiny and curious gimcracks
ornamented the narrow mantelpiece; but to a French eye the nonattendance of curtains to the
bunk bed, and the blatant demonstrate of wash tackle, recommended a cupboard de toilette slightly
than a bedroom.

This cleanness has now become quite stylish among affluent French nation, on story of its robustness:
the clean air singing more generously and lingering purer than in accommodation packed with
swollen seats, and poorly lit by complicated upholstery.
On the higher story were four additional rooms, worn as laboratory, lumber room, and servants'
somewhere to live whilst on the ground-floor we had a scullery, a outsized kitchen, a laundry,--that
I used afterwards as a personal kitchen, when my husband provide
it with a set of French nerve pan and a charcoal variety,--a standby
space, which was twisted into a nursery by and by, and finally a storehouse
for my husband's not negligible equipment.

The first days after our advent were dedicated to seafaring or rowing
on the lagoon, to explicate me with its landscape; quickly, though,
we complete rules to mislay no occasion, for we had both abundance
of labor previous to us.

My partner, at that time, know French pretty fine; he could state the lot he wish to say, and
unstated level the nuance of the talking, but his accent betray him at once as an Englishman,
and there linger in his language a assured indecision about the selection
of terms most suitable to his sense.

As for me, my English had remain that of a school-girl, and my partner obtainable me his good for you
on my tremendously partial information, for this reason--that I must have small to unlearn.
We decided, to start with, that one of us must to know the other's speech carefully, so as to
organization a ideal sympathetic, and as he was so a great deal more sophisticated in French
than I in English, it was determined that for a occasion he ought to become my novice, and that
our conversation ought to be in my mother-tongue.
On my piece I dedicated two hours a day to the revise of English syntax, and to the lettering of
exercises, themes, and versions.

This task was fulfilled during my husband's absence, or whilst he was engaged with his communication;
and in the daylight I used to read English out loud to him, whilst he drew or tinted moreover
at house or out of door.

It was his own method of instruction, and proved most acceptable,
but requisite in the teacher--particularly at the beginning--an ever-ready
concentration to accurate the articulation of approximately every
statement, and to give the transformation of it, collectively with
a great store up of endurance to bear with the continually returning
error; for not to mar my attention in the mechanism he gave me to
read, I was exempt from the slow procedure of the vocabulary.

He was himself the best of dictionaries--explaining the differences of meaning, giving the life
and spirit of each term, and always impressing this truth, that rarely does the same expression
convey exactly the same idea in two languages. He frequently failed to give word for word,
since he would not give an estimated conversion; but he was forever ready with a detailed clarification,
and so trained me to come into the peculiar brains of the speech;
so that if I did not become a high-quality translator, I educated
early to consider and to suffer in compassion with the author I was
studying.

If the climate tolerable it, Gilbert usually takes me out on the lake,
and according to the customary wind, choose some exacting mark for
lessons.

 As the approach of his
furious weapon to the point of pure pleasure challenged him to make fierce efforts to penetrate
it, and I could no longer resist his stare that he cast upon me, expressive of his need, his
look said that I should enable him to complete his enjoyment.

So making Laura rest her belly on the bed and stretch her legs as far as they could possibly go
so as to open him a fair entrance from behind, I loosened her hold
of his arms so far as to enable him to stoop down very low, and then
taking hold of his large weapon I guided it into the walls which I
felt was burning with desire and eager to receive it.

Laura at once accommodated herself to all his wants and needs and
finding that her hold of his hands rather slowed his progress, she
loosened it, and they were soon moved to her two globes, and then,
as he became more and more excited in the hot struggle, his hands
were firmly clasped round her waist so as to bring their bodies into
one.

Enjoying the delicious scene before my eyes the fiery impatience of my excited guilt of pleasure
could no longer be restrained.

I threw myself on the boy and almost at the first thrust was plunged
up to the hilt in the delicious buttocks which he thus so temptingly
exposed to my eager assault.

Once I climaxed had nothing to do but to keep my place and leave to the energetic struggles of
the other two combatants the task of bringing the warfare to a successful termination.
After a hard fight, during which the utmost endeavours of both parties
seemed to be to try which should be vanquished soonest, it terminated
in a drawn.

And as I contributed at the same time my share of the spoil, poor Frank's beautiful little balls
of delight were quite inundated both before and behind with the stream which flowed from himself
and me and which mingled with the first tribute his manly prowess had drawn down from woman
and poured in torrents along his thighs. The dear boy was so overcome with the delight that I
thought at first he must have fainted, but I soon discovered it was only the excitment of pure
pleasure. Raising him up in my arms, as soon as I could disengage my unruly member from the
pleasant quarters it still clung too, I laid him on the bed by the side of Laura who was not in
much better condition and stood equally in need of my assistance.
It is wonderful, however, how soon one recovers from such exhaustion, and in a few minutes they
were both as lively as ever and were actively engaged in the mutual contemplation of each other's
exquisite charms. This pleasant proceeding was enlivened by an animated discussion regarding
the alteration and improvement which each of them discovered the other's beauties had undergone since
they had last been submitted to their mutual inspection, and it cannot be doubted that Laura
was greatly delighted to witness the change in size of the pretty
little champion to which she had given the first lesson.

 H.T. Ellacombe.
Clyst St. George
You can find such lines too on holy water fonts made of marble in a Parisian church.
W.C. Trevelyan 
Jeremy Taylor talked of a Greek inscription that
can be found on a baptismal basin in the Rufford Church. I was paranoid. The soldiers might come to get me at any time. Fear paralyzed
me for four years as I had little relief.

I always wore long pants when the war started.

When I changed my clothes, I remember long pants, not short ones. As soon as boys were able enough
to work in the fields, they put their work pants on. That was the end of wearing loose clothes.

I
labored at the house and on the field. I knew of nothing else as I farmed my entire life.

I voted many times. I can't recollect who or what I voted for. I draw a blank every time, but
I'm pretty sure I voted Democrat. I haven't voted for a long time because I don't know much
about the issues or the candidates. I never really knew how I should
vote.

I was a free spirit. A man without a home or land. I didn't
want to be tied down. 

The ball came from the candle, which seems to grow bigger and bigger the closer he approached.
Inside the car sat the fairy coriander. It descended slowly in front of the palace, and while
resting on the floor and then the fairy came back up and floated in the air.
"Well, now what happens to everyone? "Said the fairy, from among the children and relief for the
afflicted." Why is all so sad and unhappy? Are you tired of being in this beautiful island?
And what I really want to return to Noviland? "

"Yes, yes, please, take us back home," shouted everyone.

"We've been very happy here, but now we go to our dear mothers and fathers. Please bring us home!"

"Okay," said the fairy, as I wish to you all back in his old home
tomorrow morning.

So goodbye to the Child Island, do not weep. "
So the fairy waved her hand, and immediately a silver haze surrounding the palace and the houses
became less attractive and less distinct, until it was weak and only
a dark outline them, then the mist grew thicker, and each child was
alarmed to find himself of all his companions, and the effort of shouting
could not.

Grew thicker and thicker the fog, until night fell, and children were separated from each
other, were stunned and did not know where they were.
Today the fog gradually cleared, and then, instead of the island and
the pretty houses Child, each child was in his own bed in Noviland.

Eager morning I had to tell her parents the good fairy fans and Child Island, Palace of Fine and
pretty houses, musicians small, fairy slipper, and the strange nomenclature. And as each language
and its nice story talking, parents smiled and said to each other,
"Truly our son has had a pleasant dream!"

But the children knew better, they knew it was a good Fairy Coriander and that she had brought
to their island of magic, called Child Island.
E. Hunter.

SCHOOL LUNCHES. 
BY PHILLIS BROWNE, author of "Cookbook of the girl."
The structure of the school today are quite uncomfortable for people
who are accustomed to eat in the old hours. There was a pleasing expression with the countenance. Other muscles
become involved as the disease advances, but unless found incomprehensive the condition is
referred to as that of weak kindness. As though he was laughing the cheeks and upper lip are
raised, the nose looked shortened, and there were wrinkles in the skin bridging in transverse
lines and oblique lines on the sides. The front teeth in the upper jaw are exposed generally. An
obvious naso-labial fold is discernible which ran from the wing to each nostril up to the corner
of the mouth and it is often doubled in the case of old people..  [11] refer to similar comments
by Dr. J. Crichton Browne in `Journal of Mental Science,' April, 1871, p. 149.  An amused state
of mind can be marked by bright and sparkling eyes as the retraction
of the corners of the mouth and upper lip produce wrinkles.

A slight brightness is noticed in the eyes of micro cephalous idiots, who never learn to speak.
Extreme laughter makes the eyes too much suffused with tears so as not to sparkle, but there
is luster in eyes when they are moistened by the slight squeeze of the glands during laughing moderately
or smiling, but grieving eyes never glisten and they are often dull even though they are moist.
Tenseness seems to be the cause for the brightness, which results from the contraction of
the orbicular muscles and to the pressure of the raised cheeks. Dr. Piderit opines that the
tension may be largely due to the eyeballs becoming filled with blood and other fluids, which are
in turn caused by the increased acceleration of blood because of the excitement. A hectic patient
with a rapid circulation or a man suffering from cholera with almost all fluids drained out
of his body pose a contrast appearance to the above according to him.

The circulation when lowers gives the eye a dead look. Once I saw a man completely drained
by long-drawn-out and severe exertion during a very hot day, and an onlooker equated his eyes
to those of a boiled codfish.  [12] C. Vogt, `Memoire sur les Microcephales,' 1867, p. 21.
[13] Sir C. Bell, `Anatomy of Expression,' p. 133.  [14] `Mimik und Physiognomik,' 1867, s.
63-67.  Now for the sounds produced while laughing.

The expression of sounds of some kind would in nature be associated with a pleasurable state
of mind can be seen in a ambiguous mode by us, since all through the animal kingdom sounds
are used for calling or to entice the opposite sex partner. Sounds are made use of to express
pleasure when the parents and their offspring meet and while meeting
united members of the same social community.

Yet he reason for the sounds which man utters when he is pleased
have to be the peculiar reiterated character of boisterous laughter
are not known.

However, they are very different from the cries of screams or distress.

While making distress calls the expirations are lengthened and incessant, with the inspirations
brief and interrupted. Therefore it might possibly have been expected with the sounds articulated
from joy, that the expirations would have been short and broken with
the inspirations prolonged; and this is the case.

 Even
though our victories, are managed by the hand, they are acheived by the head. We feel little
concept to meddle with what Burke calls "the mystery of murder," or "the present perfection of
gunnery, cannoneering, bombarding, and mining;".

As it may be the weapon of the goose-quill, we hope our readers understand we will not change
our policy, which is pleasing them. As our title suggests, we have
to present current events.

Verbatim; we are praying the accompanying View and System of the Bay of Navarino will be welcomed,
quod rerum est omnium primum.

So far, the current event attached to Navarino: with recent events
which have resurfaced such interest.

Our readers have become more familiar with the glory to the Sun of
all newspapers.

We will continue to the somber duty of reporting on the Bay of Navarino,
as it is a place of great intrest in the recording of ancient and
modern warfare.

As we use complete honesty, (we trust our whole conduct,) we understand our responbilites to
the "Travels" of M. Pouqueville and his views.

"The port of Navarino, certainly one of the finest in the world,"
says Sir William Gell, in his tantalizing quest in the Morea, "is
formed by a deep indenture in the Morea, shut in by a long island,
anciently called Sphacteria, famous for the defeat and capture of
the Spartans, in the Peloponnesian war, and yet exhibiting the vestige
of walls, which may have served as their last refuge.

This island has been separated into three or four parts by the violence of the waves, so that
boats might pass from the open sea into the port in calm weather,
by means of the channel so formed.

On one of the portions is the tomb of a Turkish saint, or santon;
and near the centre of the port is another very small island, or rock."

The island is Sphagia.

Navarino, is the Pylos of the ancients, and more than likely the birthplace of Nestor the respectable
noble-- which is overlooking the enormus harbour which has the same
name as the town.

Surrounded with a wall and, kept safe by five towers. Which were built by the Turks in 1572,
needed no repair until after the battle with the Russians in 1770.

The Turks conqured it from the Venetians in 1499.

At the gate of the fort is a diminishing Greek town; and the walls
of the castle are in terrible condition.

"The town within the wall," quotes Sir W. Gell, "is like all those
in this part of the world, encumbered with the fallen ruins of former
habitations.

These have been generally constructed by the Turks, since the expulsion
of the Venetians; for it appears, that till the long continued habit
of possession had induced the Mahometans to live upon and cultivate
their estates in the country, and the power of the Venetian republic
had been consumed by a protracted peace, a law was enforced which
compelled every Turk to have a habitation in some one of the fortresses
of the country.

But the habitatations," he speaks on, "present generally an indiscriminate
mass of ruins; they were originally erected in haste, and being often
cemented with mud instead of mortar, the rains of autumn, penetrating
between the outer and inner faces of the walls, swell the earth, and
soon effect the ruin of the whole"-- sadly built structures couldn't
keep out the enemy.

Sir William, on his visit, discovered the ranks in diseray not expected by his fellow-citizens.
His robes were in good condition.

He was welcomed by a "very kindly in a dirty unfurnished apartment,"
where he "climbed by a tottering ladder from a court strewed with
ruins;" here he was given "coffee," after he left.

Why would he be treated with such digust? and it could not have been
any better for our traveller.

The ground in Navarino is red, and has vast growth of unlimited number of squills, which help
make certain medicine. The rocks, which are everywhere through out the Navarino rich soil, are
limestone, and have an appearance of the diminishing castle of Navarino; and the minutiae amount
of trees is nothing compaired to the amount of sage, brooms, cistus, and different shrubs which begin
from the many different limestones.
 

Not pen, but ink would be my fifth. Not men, but boys, would be my sixth. A table, and not a bench
is my seventh. Not a wrench, but a chisel is my eighth. A quick return by you would be wise,
if ever face to face, we'd ever meet. 

Only God knows our fate: We have strong, armed guards keeping watch every night.

Many wondered if those rumors had any merit.

Liberty was the creed and the language of the day. While France was being disturbed by revolution,
England was being disturbed by Clarkson. 

The first business carried out by the bank was in Mercers chapel by
a group of men in high mercantile standing.

On September 28th they moved to Grocers' Hall where they remained until 1732.
 Althea's
voice conveyed her concern as she said "Be careful!" to the Colonel, adding her hope that he would
avoid injuring himself. Of course, she also wanted him to get to
a place where he could see the view and describe it to her.

"It's amazing and inspirational" he said, once he'd found a spot from which to observe what was
happening insider the barrier. "I can see Catalpa, Evangeline too, oh and there's Queen Bess
herself!"

Then the crowd cheered.

Althea stood up on her toes, excited. "What's happening now?" she asked.

"Not much," the Colonel said, adding "The crowd thought something was about to happen, and then
it didn't. But it's all going to happen soon." Althea could see his hands tightly gripping the tree branch,
each knuckle on each finger whitening with the effort.

After a minute, the crowd's noise went from scattered shouts to a deafening roar.

"There they go!" The Colonel peered through his binoculars so intently it almost looked like
he might fall.

"That's a great beginning to the race!"
Althea called up "So who's out in front? Colonel? Who's in first
place right now?"

The Colonel answered that Catalpa was out in front,
with the others hanging back by several yards."

"Not Queen Bess?"
Althea's tone suggested she blamed the Colonel for the news he was
reporting. "I wish she'd get moving!"

"It's halfway through now,"
the Colonel continued to narrate the race, "and Evangeline just pulled
ahead. Catalpa is next, everyone else is behind them in a group."

Althea
tried looking through the hole in the fence the Colonel had peered
through before he climbed the tree. When she heard him call, though,
she stepped back, looking up the tree trunk in his direction again
as he said:

"Uh-oh! Looks bad! Someone's fallen, and they're going
down like dominoes. Queen Bess is still up but behind ... there's
room for two more ahead of her." As he strained to see the action,
he heard the tree branch crack under him. He moved quickly to a safer
spot, almost falling down in the process. I said: "I'll go to my aunt's house next vacation and learn how we
became mighty. I'll also find out exactly why we don't currently practice our inherited claims
to glory."
In Snowborough, Aunt Patience was anxious to give me the proof I desperately longed for.  But
she told me that all the old family documents and letters were burned in a fire in '98. There
was no proof of our nobility in Snowborough or  anywhere else. 

The nævi occur on any part of the body,the dilated arteriole or a vein winding about among
the capillaries may be detected. But they are most frequent on the
face.

Multiple and vary greatly in size, some no bigger than a pin-head,
while others cover large areas of the body.

In colour of every tint from purple to brilliant red.

A considerable dash of blue, especially in cold weather.
The cutaneous shows tendency to disappear,unlike the other forms of nævi.It is especially persistent
when associated with overgrowth of the epidermis and of the hairs--nævoid mole.
It is difficult in removing the nævus without leaving a scar by disfiguring.The treatment of the
cutaneous nævus is unsatisfactory. Very small nævi may be destroyed by a fine pointed Paquelin
thermo-cautery, or by escharotics, such as nitric acid.

For larger nævi, radium and solidified carbon dioxide ("CO₂ snow") may be used. The extensive
port-wine stains so often met with on the face are best left alone.
The subcutaneous nævus is comparatively rare. It constitutes a well-defined, localised tumour,
which may possess a distinct capsule, especially when it has ceased to grow or is retrogressing.
On section, it presents the appearance of a finely reticulated sponge.
Within a few days of birth, a subcutaneous nævus is often overlooked, especially on a covered
part of the body. This may be discovered when the patient is some years old. It forms a rounded,
lobulated swelling, seldom of large size and yielding a sensation like that of a sponge. The
skin over it is normal, or may exhibit a bluish tinge, especially
in cold weather.

In some cases the tumour is diminished , but slowly fills again when the pressure is relaxed,
and it swells up when the child struggles or cries.

From a cold abscess it is diagnosed by the history and progress of the swelling and by the absence
of fluctuation. Simulates a hernia when situated over or close to one of the hernial openings.
When occurs in the middle line of the face, head, or back, it may be mistaken for other congenital
conditions as meningocele or spina bifida.

The use of an exploring needle clears up the diagnosis.
Mixed Nævus.--The mixed nævus partakes of the characters of the other two varieties. It is
a subcutaneous nævus with involvement of the skin, frequently on the face and head, but may occur
on any part of the body. It also affects parts covered by mucous membrane, such as the cheek, tongue,
and soft palate. The swelling is rounded or lobulated, and projects beyond the level of its surroundings.
Sometimes the skin is invaded by the nævoid tissue over the whole extent of the tumour, only
over a limited area. Margin is of a bright-red colour, while the skin in the centre resembles
a cicatrix frequently . The swelling is reduced by steady pressure increases in size and becomes
tense when the child cries.
Prognosis.--The rate of growth of the subcutaneous sometimes increase rapidly, especially
during the first few months of life. After this they usually grow at the same rate as the
child, even slowly. There is a decided tendency to disappearance of these varieties, fully
50 per cent. undergoing natural cure by a process of obliteration, similar to the obliteration
of vessels in cicatricial tissue. An increased activity of growth may be shown at periods,
usually begins about the period of the first dentition or at the second dentition, and sometimes
at puberty. The onset of natural cure is recognised by the tumour becoming firmer and less compressible,
by the colour becoming less bright. 

The amalgamation of close correspondence in beginning with manifest self-reliance in the administration
of the minutia of these tales is hitting sufficient, but it is a occurrence with which we become
rather well renowned as we advance in the study of Aryan well liked literature. The legend of
the Master Thief is no less amazing than that of Punchkin. In the Scandinavian tale the Thief,
desiring to get ownership of a farmer's ox, mindfully suspends himself to a tree by the roadside.
The grower, transient by with his ox, is really hit by the view of
the hanging body, but conceives it no one of his enterprise, and does
not halt to interfere.

No earlier has he passed than the Thief permits himself down, and running swiftly along a by-path,
suspends himself with identical precaution to a second tree. This time the grower is astonished
and puzzled; but when for the third time he encounters the identical
unwonted scene, considering that three suicides in one forenoon are
too much for so straightforward credence, he departs his ox and sprints
back to glimpse if the other two bodies are actually where he considered
he glimpsed them.

While he is border hypotheses of witchcraft by which to interpret the occurrence, the Thief gets
away with the ox. In the Hitopadesa the article obtains a finer point. The adroitness of the Norse
King in "The Three Princesses of Whiteland" displays but badly in evaluation with the enthusiastic
psychological insight and cynical sarcasm of these Hindu sharpers. In the course of his journeys
this prince contacted three male siblings battling on a lonesome moor. They had been battling
for a century years about the ownership of a head covering, a cloak,
and a two of boots, which would make the wearer unseen, and express
him instantly whithersoever he might desire to go.

The King permissions to proceed as umpire, supplied he may one time trial the virtue of the
illusion garments; but one time dressed in them, of course he goes away, departing the battlers
to be seated and imbibe their thumbs. Now in the "Sea of Streams of Story," in writing in the twelfth
100 years by Somadeva of Cashmere, the Indian King Putraka, strolling in the Vindhya Mountains,
likewise discomfits two male siblings who are quarrelling over a two of footwear, which are
like the sandals of Hermes, and a basin which has the identical virtue
as Aladdin's lamp.

 The additional beauty of this window is seen in the lengthen
flat surface at bottom and cyma of upper soffit, i in Byzantine in nature. At the same time, the
pillars except the chief one at left, are very Romanesque. A window in Bittonto, Italy is not
a peculiar attractive illustration, but is a typical example of face to face vital deal of ancient
uncivilised Romanesque constructors.  Window in the Apse of the Cathedral, Bittonto, Italy is attractive
as well as tender in which Byzantine sheet of metal found on the patterns of the concave structure
upside of window.

It is more or less like previous illustrations, there is a surprising
combination of two forms. Come right in. " 
"Keeping
Room" Mr Simon Brown's house was an apartment halfway between the ineffable glories of the front
room and that the court of nations, the kitchen, the presence of a large train Negro officials
took a completely different apartment ago The institution of the throne-room Mrs. Katy Scudder.

This room has been keeping a low-studded flat, finished with heavy oak beams to the wall completely
left, went over and painted.

Two windows looked down the street, and another in a kind of courtyard, where three black
wenches, each with a broom, claimed to be overwhelming, but there were actually chattering and
laughing, like so many crows .
On one side of the room was a heavy mahogany buffet, covered with
decanters labeled gin, brandy, rum, etc. - for Simeon was regarded
as the best provider, but none in his household.

Heavy mahogany chairs with crewel coverings, stood sentinel on room and fireplace was flanked
by two large chairs covered with embossed leather.
The Doctor opens the apartment, Simeon took him kindly to buffet.
"We make our discussions mus'n't too dry, Doc," he said. "What will you get?"
"Thank you, sir," said the doctor, with a wave of his hand, - "nothing in this morning." 
And
storage in a chair armed hat, he settled in a leather easy chairs,
and, dropping his hands on his knees, he looked straight into his
face, like a man who is studying how to enter a topic internal absorption.

"Well, Doctor," said Simeon, seated opposite him, sipping a complimentary
glass of rum and water, our opinions seem to be making a noise in
the world.