FASHIONABLE PHILOSOPHY AND OTHER SKETCHES

[Title page: title.jpg]

BY LAURENCE OLIPHANT

AUTHOR OF 'PICCADILLY,' 'ALTIORA PETO,' 'MASOLLAM,' ETC.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS EDINBURGH AND LONDON MDCCCLXXXVII

PRICE ONE SHILLING

PREFACE. 

When stakeholders were calmer, he ordered that, within three days, all individuals placed on
the premises of the Ministry in the past six months hospitalized in their bodies, whatever
their origin and how this meant the inevitable accuracy out to operations overnight, Pepe decided
carry out its purpose. Regarding his father, had everything planned: what was was made as simple
as sad a stretcher to transport you on Engracia house, and carry then his bed, his clothes
and some furniture, preserved more useful than for sellers. The difficulty was in determining
to take Dona Manuela and Leocadia. What would you do? To persist in following up on the streets
of keypads, with what resources? And to find another room, what means would have? Not hide
the clear understanding Pepe who, though sick of reason, should not be thrown into the street
to his mother and sister, but also saw that the fanaticism of Dona Manuela and subsequent
behavior could result in Leocadia during his absence, the total abandonment of the poor old man.

-
You speak to them - Pepe said Miller, trying this. I lack courage, and may also I miss calm.

- I see your mother ... With Leo did not speak.

- Whatever.

- When you think that we have the transfer to your father?

- This is done in one morning. The main thing is that you speak. If God touched my heart! What
do I do not want to leave the house? ... and although they lend themselves,
where are they to put in and how will they live?

It seems incredible that we've got to have to think about it!

Miller did not seek to Dona Manuela at home, not to see Leocadia, but eager to meet the difficult
task of Pepe, went to the alms of light. The first trip was made
in vain: Dona Manuela refused to receive him.

At the second attempt, he was told not to leave because he was in worship, but said the chaplain
prayed, his son, which had fit.

Miller came on the same visiting room where he was received days before Pepe, when he sought see
his mother, and within minutes was tabled Tirso. Despite the dead,
for work the affection of Engracia, Millan was the love of Leocadia,
the presence of the priest was impressed unpleasantly, even tougher
in his anger toward the man, that wiped with their first loves.

Lady Fritterly.  Well, I hope he is coming presently, so you will be able to continue your
conversation.  Then there is Mr Coldwaite, the celebrated Comtist; and Mr Fussle, who writes
those delightful articles on prehistoric aesthetic evolution; and Mr Drygull, the eminent theosophist,
whose stories about esoteric Buddhism are quite too extraordinary, and who has promised to
bring a Khoja--a most interesting moral specimen, my dear--who has just arrived from Bombay;
and Lord Fondleton.

Mrs Allmash.  Lord Fondleton!  I did not know that he was interested in such subjects.

Lady Fritterly.  He says he is, dear; between ourselves--but this, of course, is strictly entre
nous--I rather think that it is I who interest him: but I encourage him, poor fellow; it may
wean him from the unprofitable life he is leading, and turn his mind to higher things.  Oh!
I almost forgot,---then there is my new beauty!

Mrs Allmash.  Your new beauty!

Lady Fritterly. 

Goethe believed in God, but his natural inclination led him to seek, not the center of soul,
but pouring out the soul in nature, where God revealed to him. It was therefore more Theosophist
than mystical. That tended more toward the doctrines of Bruno, of Spinoza, and Schelling, who
to those of Fichte, but in the same way that did not stir up sensationalism never, until think
that the reality of things and the impression they make on us can be to give science, common
sense also agreed never to give credence to the creation of reality for the ideal. Supports
both, and vaguely enters on a method called empiricism intellectual intuition which exercises the
office of the observation of the sensual and idealistic speculation.

Hegel attracts and repels at the same time our poet. I love the eternal development of the idea,
and his conscience rejects perpetual change, and thought it came from and born most of the
least conscious of the unconscious, being not-being. To affirm their mind the existence of
a personal God and the immortality of the soul, returns with a love of monads of Leibnitz. God
appears to him the eternal and infinite cute. The human soul, a monad upper and indestructible,
but limited.

The moral of Goethe is too lenient, but not for relaxation but for goodness itself, and firm belief
in the divine goodness and human frailty. Goethe's God is soft, indulgent and benign, and
sometimes almost a merit of the error in the man who errs, it errs
on that sucks.

Pacific, a lover of order, enemy of rudeness, every revolution an event like Goethe awesome.
The horrors of France is outraged and terrified.

And yet, this conservative, this friend of the legitimate powers and fair, has faith in freedom
and progress, and includes the rebellion against tyranny and believes in no time from any government
tyrannical and violent.

His thirst for religion is great and perpetual. It creates a natural religion and not enough.
Without faith in Christianity, dreams of new positive religion. Maybe pretend intermediate monads
among which are human souls and that is God, and these cuties go
geniuses, elemental spirits, demiurge, mysterious and hidden intelligences
which move the stars, who give life to plants, which are the very
nature of personality and consciousness.

Sometimes leans Goethe this path to a flamboyant neo-Platonism and spiritualized paganism, sometimes
becomes forward in faith to the doctrine of Christ and the Gospels and read earnestly pious
books.
His doctrines on aesthetics, according to its basic philosophy with
the natural condition v of his mind, have no small claim in the history
of this new science, and prepare major reform and the development
Schiller conducted under the auspices and according to the footsteps
of Kant.

Mr Germsell.  Mrs Allmash asked me last night whether my thoughts had been directed to the
topic which is uppermost just now in so many minds in regard to the religion of the future,
and I ventured to tell her that it would be found to be contained in the generalised expediency
of the past.

Mr Fussle.  Pardon me, but the religion of the future must be the result of an evolutionary
process, and I don't see how generalisations of past expediency are to help the evolution of
humanity.

Germsell.  They throw light upon it; and the study of the evolutionary process so far teaches
us how we may evolve in the future.  For instance, you have only got to think of evolution
as divided into moral, astronomic, geologic, biologic, psychologic, sociologic, aesthetic,
and so forth, and you will find that there is always an evolution of the parts into which it
divides itself, and that therefore there is but one evolution going on everywhere after the
same manner.  The work of science has been not to extend our experience, for that is impossible,
but to systematise it; and in that systematisation of it will be found the religion of which
we are in search.

Drygull.  May I ask why you deem it impossible that our experience can be extended?

Germsell.  Because it has itself defined its limits.  The combined experience of humanity,
so far as its earliest records go, has been limited by laws, the nature of which have been
ascertained: it is impossible that it should be transcended without violation of the conclusions
arrived at by positive science.

Drygull.  I can more easily understand that the conclusions arrived at by men of science should
be limited, than that the experience of humanity should be confined by those conclusions; but
I fail to perceive why those philosophers should deny the existence of certain human faculties,
because they don't happen to possess them themselves.  I think I know a Rishi who can produce
experiences which would scatter all their conclusions to the winds, when the whole system which
is built upon them would collapse.

Mrs Gloring [aside to Lord Fondleton].  Pray, Lord Fondleton, can you tell me what a Rishi is?

Lord Fondleton.  A man who has got into higher states, you know--what I heard Mr Drygull call
a transcendentalist the other day, whatever that may be.  I don't understand much about these
matters myself, but I take it he is a sort of evolved codger.

Mrs Allmash.  Oh, how awfully interesting!  Dear Mr Drygull, do tell us some of the extraordinary
things the Rishi can do.

Drygull.  If you will only all of you listen attentively, and if Mr Germsell will have the
goodness to modify to some degree the prejudiced attitude of mind common to all men of science,
you will hear him as plainly as I can at this moment beating a tom-tom in his cottage in the
Himalayas.

[Mr Germsell gets up impatiently, and walks to the other end of the back drawing-room.

Drygull [casting a compassionate glance after him].  Perhaps it is better so.  Now please,
Lady Fritterly, I must request a few moments of the most profound silence on the part of all.
You will not hear the sound as though coming from a distance, but it will seem rather like
a muffled drumming taking place inside your head, scarcely perceptible at first, when its volume
will gradually increase. The epic, born of such pruritus,
is a nightmare, a delirium, a chaos, a table revolt, a phantasmagoria, and almost drunk, at the
same time explain and justify little or nothing that bore the ignorant in too deep, and perhaps too
shallow will cause the disdainful smile man philosopher and scientist.

However, the hobby of composing a poetic work of this kind have not only adolescents madmen,
but men of view, sleep and weight, among which, undoubtedly, Goethe excels.

If the company is not impossible, nobody better than him, a century this part, could have do it
in Europe. Let's see what clothes I had, what elements had, and then examined the work itself,
the Faust, which sought to make an oversized and titanic purpose.

Poet Goethe is not only: is the writer par excellence. It includes, but why is approved, Emerson,
assuming the Supreme Soul, whom he represents in the world in many high functions, a number of eminent
men, make Plato the philosopher, the skeptic Montaigne, Napoleon
the man of action, and the writer Goethe.

Goethe's mind was smooth and magical mirror, which reflected the visible and invisible, nature
and history, real and ideal, with brilliance and clarity not common. And mirror was merely passive,
but ordered the images and representations, lit in the most artistic, and made a stand out
more and others were lost or fade away in the last terms in the table,
as befitted the clear demonstration of the truth or clean appearance
and heavenly beauty.

Pair wise poet, all preceded his inspiration, moderate and tempered
by reflection.

His constant desire for truth, it is sometimes branded as indifferent to him and cold; but serenity
does not leave him ever.

Without a living faith in anything supernatural, fixed and concrete, is not easy to rise above
Goethe areas, unless ordered by the thrust of discursive understanding. May not perceive sovereign
unit, perhaps it is not a deep moral sense, perhaps the noblest chords miss his lyre. Much
poorer writers of wit, are more pervasive and accents better touch and hurt the human soul.
But Goethe is ahead of the other poets of his time and even quite a few of the past, because it
covers everything and anything goes skillfully to his poetry. His latest creations seem the
result of eighty years of observation and study. Unrelated events, doctrines, experiments and
speculations, everything is shuffled and grouped in some order around a central idea: the equivalence
of the times, the statement that the disadvantages of an era for the spirits there are only
weak and sickly, the denial that our age is the age of reason as opposed to the age of faith;
and the conviction that faith and reason live in perpetual sync, that poetry and the prose
of life interpenetrate and melt, that the world is young and humanity almost girl, and that
the patriarchs, prophets and visionaries, understand us, through
ages, and we salute and extend our hand, and encourage us to trust
and write New Bibles and join the ground and the sky.

As seen, Goethe was not a believer, if we understand believer who believes in religion; but was far
from being a skeptic. We are inclined to say he was optimistic, as most all major German thinkers,
from Leibnitz to displayed Schopenhauer and Hartmann.

And with regard to the goodness of the spirit of the age, not a believer, but an apostle should
qualify.

Add to that another essential condition of his mind, Emerson points out very well, and Goethe
patenting it with pleasure in Poetry and Truth, which is his autobiography. To Goethe's life
is worth more as theory and practice. Speculation is more noble and high so that action. To
action, so it is most significant and because speculation back on it and taking aim. What
would, what would be worth all this universe; what the pomp of the stars, the harmony of the
spheres, the harmony of the plants and animals, the events of history, the vocation of the races,
the foundation and destruction of empires, the passions, good and
evil, love and hatred, if he had not a mind that understands everything,
who painted at its center, and until you reproduce it with more delicacy,
order, meaning and beauty that it has in itself?

This thought Goethe, a writer from every pore, and this thinking to our own acts, defaults, losses,
pain and misery, are objects of the theory.

Come of that concept, people, usually, a Goethe, rare allegations and no less rare defenses.

It
is assumed that there are sciences and arts, and culture which require perfection terrible
experiments. It is told of a painter who became a bandit and murderer to study well and die
violently men, of surgeons and naturalists, to deepen the mysteries of life and dying, committed
cruel anatomy and dissections of living persons, and even the doctor Vesalius who, taking
advantage of his own favor and favor with the Sultan Amurath, getting
often cut off human heads in front of him to learn in depth of the
contraction muscles, rapid throes of agony and a sense of how it appears
the vital principle of the body that is encouraging.

It seems to us, thank God, such experimental studies have to be very
necessary so that no one later in his office, but if they were, if
such expense would have to earn expertise, would be better to stay
single official or apprentice to get a teacher.

Since this is, we dare to believe that Goethe, though not so bloodthirsty media, is pleased
to cause pain, to excite feelings tender and earnest and pay wrong course, some women in tormenting simple
and love, and other niceties of Similarly, to study well the nature of misfortunes, anguish,
despair and death by broken heart, which then had to describe in
its most sympathetic heroines.

Not concern us write here the life of Goethe, but certainly, well studied and written did not
give reason or excuse for such a harsh accusation.

Moreover, although the moral goodness or badness is independent of
the letters, ie only in degree and in some way.

The difference, for example, between the hero or the martyr and the poet who sings, is that
one is constant and perpetual will, and the other may not have it.

Let us imagine that such a poet shudders if you see a naked sword and even afraid of mouse, and
yet, if it is described and depicted with deep feeling and genuine
expression of the martyr or hero, we believe capable of heroism and
martyrdom.

Is a martyr or hero, if not perpetual, fleeting and momentary, as if it were not, it would be
dishonest and futile his poetry, and anyone of taste would reject as false coin is rejected.

Infer
from the above, still believing the worst of a good poet, we can
only believe that small and weak, not evil.

Who feel and express the good, the noble, the heroic and holy, may be weak, but never wicked
or cruel or vile, or wicked.

For this writer, the critical test of the aesthetic worth of a work
of poetry, involves a certificate of moral worth to the author.

Or the poetry is bad or not bad the author of the poetry. What he said of the mandatory Hispanic-Latino,
a Greek poet said: which was to be primarily good bacon.

But not all indispensable condition put by a poet good moral goodness,
and so, when Goethe accuse no hard and pitiless, accusing him of selfish
in the superlative: claim sacrificed everything for the cultivation
of one's intelligence, his calmness and Olympic rest looking at himself
as a precious object that demanded the most painstaking care.

The defense made some of Goethe at this point, is worse than the prosecution. Presupposes doctrine
more absurd than that of those who believe that to advance in certain trades need terrible experiments.
Doctrine is similar to one that is in fashion, and that is to say that what we call genius is
a disease that comes from the evil of some involved, or atrophy of an entire apparatus, which
develops the expense of the brain, or some disruption of all or part of our body. Say, then, that
genius is as a divinity that resides in the soul of anyone who owns, and whose worship and expression
must be the holder devote his life and sacrifice everything, friendship and love of women, patriotism
and moral law. Thus Goethe's unique defenders who alluded to, assume that the noble sacrifice
poet conditions and even sacred duties, but, far from condemning, commend him for it. His genius
demanded, so that all selfishness, coldness of heart and ingratitude, which attribute the poet
becomes a mockery of the sacrifice of Abraham, if well done to the
genius, God relentless and never stops as the Lord, Isaac and saving
content to a lamb.

The funny thing of this apology did not save as dangerous. Then it only remained but were sufficient
a genius, or believe it, for not complying with the obligations placed on top of every precept
and every Law, discard the heart of everything holy and pure enthusiasm, and be a selfish cold
and disgusting, adding to all the insolence to ensure that is by
devotion and costly sacrifice to the genius himself, and that rather
than censorship, he deserves admiration, praise and awe!

It is wise to believe otherwise: that the genius calls for worship, education and demonstration,
is the virtue and the beautiful passions and true sacrifice. This is not to say that they been
saints all qualified men of genius, but they were geniuses, not because
of their selfishness, meanness and misery, and yes, despite all these
flaws, because if not have had, not only have been better as moral
persons, but as geniuses.

Finally, defense, besides being sophistry, it is useless to Goethe,
whom we see these you're supposed bad qualities, making them good
or covered up by the immoral doctrine of the cult of genius.

Goethe did nothing to achieve his elevation and his favor with the Duke Carl August of moan, who
loved him as much as Goethe might love him, and he admired and flattered him more than the great
poet flattered. In the court of that kind Prince, Goethe, more than courteous, seemed Prince,
the genius who all served and worshiped. Such a high position does not lifted up ever, and he
used it to do good to a few people, and particularly to other scholars, writers and poets, sometimes
noble emulation, envious ever. The same deep friendship and durable, which Goethe knew how to inspire many
people, sharing, evidence that had warmth and tenderness in his soul. As much as is known by high
the garments of understanding, not win and the will when you have no heart. The affection that inspire
knew Gleim, Herder, Wieland, a Merch, a Kestner and many others, proves that Goethe was morally
worthy of that love and able to feel. Of his devotion and zeal in the service of Prince gives
written testimony to the private and official documents in which the prince speaks him. Brotherly
love that joined Goethe Schiller, the beneficial influence exerted on him the largest and highest
influence that Schiller, by repeated confessions of Goethe himself, exercised in his soul, the
Xenia, they wrote together, the most beautiful works of one or the other, which mutually consulted,
correctness and even inspired, prove that Goethe was not selfish,
or at least that if it was, was the most amiable and excellent of
the selfish.

In his love, there is nothing to address the severe morality of the time he lived. And yet the
only thing objectionable is the abandonment of Federica Brion, whose apotheosis was then the
poet Egmont's Clara, in both Marias Clavijo and Goetz, in Wilchem ​​Meister Mignon, and the
Margaret Faust. But the true apotheosis of Federica and defense of Goethe made them herself,
when she refused to hand Reinhold Lenz, saying that "What had been loved by Goethe could not belong
to another man, "and when, later, with Goethe and at the height of his glory, said she felt
sorry for that: "It was too big for me, was known to very high places, I had no right to seize
its existence. "Words Santa resignation and love to all evidence, that ennoble Federica, but give
the Once clear testimony that Goethe was not too bad, not badly shattered
her heart, where left so sublime concept of himself and so sweet memory.

Against

Goethe impassive dream protest other loves, and particularly those who inspired Charlotte Buff.

Not
killed by it, but Werther was the price of his redemption and his
life.

Poetry saved him. That tremendous and passionate novel, rather than the poet Goethe is always objective,
that is put out of his work, judging and sentencing her characters without sharing their losses,
The move leaving him still, as the first heaven moves the other areas, also contains its protagonist
to another Goethe, passionate and vehement, that Goethe achieved critical and severe stop at the
edge of the abyss.

In other friendly or loving relationships with women, Goethe always shows passion, not calculation;
fire and not cold, tenderness and unselfishness. The teacher's wife reproached him his youthful Boehme
compositions, amend and pruned mercilessly, and was persuaded after they were bad and made
him burn. What power and authority must not exercise a woman on a poet to force a sacrifice? Schönkopf
Catalina broke with Goethe, not the cold but because tormented with jealousy. Ana Isabel Sohönmann
Goethe inspires the beautiful compositions A Lili and perhaps it is she who leaves him. The Baroness
of Goethe gave Stein a spiritual worship of friendship and esteem, and, since all the enjoyment
of her celebrity made her a judge of merit of their works and some inspiring. Finally, if
Goethe was fascinated by Cristiana Volpius, and lived together with her immoral and scandalous,
amended after the offense, getting married. His idea Love, coupled with the duty of the holy
life and respectable home, and everything beautiful that can enclosed in two stocks humble and
honest, remains forever in the purest romances, in his poem Hermann and Dorothea, which also
left us a sincere expression of German patriotism, then severely humiliated by the Napoleonic
conquests.

We have said that does not concern us write here the life of Goethe.

Suffice it quickly pointed to dispel unfounded blame.

Give him worship his clear intelligence and its other powers, but
should not be censored applaud.

It is a duty to take care of the talents that God entrusts to us. Otherwise, no gain nothing
for them or dispel them badly, is an act of ingratitude and betrayal of trust.

Goethe was able to fulfill this duty required intellectual garments.

His insatiable always arouses curiosity led him to study and learn everything: fine arts, literature
how many people have had it or have it, life sciences, theology,
philosophy and even magic and other occult sciences.

His mind was enriched with all sorts of knowledge.

And not only studied and learned in books, but in the bosom of nature and the revolt current
of human life.

His long life, his untiring activity, his inexhaustible fertility
make the whole his work is great and varied.

It was a lyric poet, epic, dramatic and didactic novelist philosopher, botanist, zoologist,
philologist, author of letters and memoirs, works of aesthetic and archeology, and just seems
to be a subject on which not to leave something written. The Naturalists will always be placed
in very high place to write the annals of science; and philosophers
to write their own history, they can not be forgotten.

Goethe followed
with deep penetration and with keen interest the great philosophical
movement, which verified in Germany during his lifetime. Preserving
their independence, appropriated ideas about and others, as more suited
to the nature of his thought, but coordinating them in it, and giving
them the unique stamp of his person.  We can't all go away and make moral experiments like you.  What we
feel is, that we ought all to endeavour as much as possible to introduce a more serious tone
into society.  We want to get rid of the selfishness, and the littlenesses, and the petty ambitions
and envyings, and the scandals that go on.  Don't we, Louisa, dear?  And you can't think how
grateful I am to Lord Fondleton for having given me the pleasure of your acquaintance.  I hope
I may often see you; I am sure you would do us all so much good.  You will always find me at
home on Sunday afternoons at this hour.

Mrs Allmash.  It is so refreshing to meet any one so full of information and earnestness as
you are, in this wicked, jaded London. Please go on, Mr Rollestone; what you were saying was
so interesting. Have you really been experimentalising on your own moral organism?  How quite
too extraordinary!

Lord Fondleton [aside to Mrs Gloring].  By Jove!  I had no idea old Rollestone could come out
in this line.  He is a regular dark horse.  I should never have suspected it.  He will be first
favourite in London this season, and win in a canter.

Coldwaite.  You will excuse me, Mr Rollestone, but I really am interested, and I really am
serious.  It was with no idle curiosity that I was waiting to hear your answer to Mr Germsell's
inquiry, as to the nature of the moral experiment necessary to test the character of this unseen
force.

Rollestone.  I can only say that any experiment which deals with the affectional and emotional
part of one's nature must be painful in the extreme.  There is, indeed, only one motive which
would induce one to undergo the trials, sufferings, sacrifices, and ordeals which it involves--and
that is one in which you will sympathise: it is the hope that humanity may benefit by the result
of one's efforts.  Indeed, any lower motive than this would vitiate them.  I will venture to
assert to Mr Germsell, who is so sceptical as to the existence of any other quality in that
force, which he can only fathom so far as to know that it is physical, that I will put him
through a course of experiment which will cause him more acute moral suffering than his brain
could bear, unless it was sustained by a force which, by that experimental process, will reveal
attributes contained in it not dreamt of in his philosophy.

Germsell.  I have no doubt you could strain my mind until it was weak enough to believe anything,
even your fantastic theories. Mr. Canon Obrero more than once he had put right out in the
street if it were not for consideration to the memory of his father and grandfather and name
it takes, we all know that the moon is old in the cathedral as stones of the walls .... Can
not think of escapade that do not: in the middle sacristy jura as a wicked gentlemen behind the
benefit. Do not say no, you rascal!

And threatened him with one hand, between severe and smiling, as if in the back of his mind
some grace might make him the faults of the nephew.

He welcomed the reprimand with grimaces waving monkey face mobility and without lowering his
eyes, which had a staring insolently.

- It's a bad shame - continued Uncle - combs you so, as the bravado of the court Toledo comes in
large parties. In the good times of the cathedral and you had been peeled to rape. But as
in this time of confiscation, freedom and misfortunes, our holy church is poor as a rat, poverty
leaves no humor to the lords of the council to be set in detail, and everything goes down
to pity. What abandonment, Gabriel! If you saw! This seems an office like that of Madrid where
people go to charge and runs away. The cathedral is beautiful as always, but not found by
some the majesty of worship the Lord. So does the choirmaster, indignant to see that in large
only parties took seats in the middle of half a dozen chorus of musicians. Young people living in the
Claverias not love our cousins ​​and complains about how short they are salaries, regardless
of the time enduring religion.

If this continues, I do not miss see this bird and others as villains
like him playing hopscotch on the cruise ... God forgive me!

And the simple wooden wand waved scandalized his words. He then continued:

- This gentleman, here you see, is not happy with their condition, and that which, being almost
a kid, took the position that his poor father could not get up to thirty years. Want be a bullfighter,
and even a Sunday ventured out in a bullfight in the Plaza de Toledo. His disheveled mother came
down like a Magdalene to tell me everything, and I, thinking that his father had dead and I belonged
to their times, wait for the Lord when throwing them back from the square handsome, and tack on
the stairs of the tower to his room with the same stick stick that I served in the cathedral.
He will tell you if I have the strong hand when I get angry ....
Virgin the tabernacle!

A Moon for the Holy Metropolitan Church got a bullfighter! Little laughed canons and to the cardinal,
as I have said, to hear the case!

A benefit of good humor dubbed him since then Tato, and so everyone calls him at home. Did
you see, brother, what provides the family honor this rascal ...?

The intended Silentiary overwhelm your look at Tato, but he smiled, unimpressed much with the words
of his uncle.

- And do not think, Gabriel - continued - that this guy is missing a piece of bread and why
makes such nonsense. Despite his poor head, is from twenty years the position of dogcatcher of
the holy cathedral, which can only be reached in better times came after many years and good
handles. Cobra realitas its six newspapers, and as the church is loose, can teach the curious
to outsiders. With the tips that fall is better than me. Foreigners who visit the cathedral,
excommunicated people looking at us like monkeys rare and we are all curious and worthy of
laughter, set in it. The English will wonder if it is toreador, and he needs to do more ...! Seeing
that give the taste, loose the bag of lies (because nobody liar leg check above) and count runs
great bearing given in Toledo and beyond, the bulls is dead ... and those England simpletons
take note on their albums, and even some blonde bigeye drawn from stroke the head of this swindling.
For him what matters is that you create the lies and finally we long the peseta, it matters little
that these heretics are to their land being disseminated in the Cathedral of Toledo, in the
Metropolitan Church of Spain, employees are bullfighters and help religious ceremonies between
run and run. Total earning more money I, and despite this, it is believed postponed in office
... A beautiful job!

Marching in the great processions in front of everyone, with great breadth of the Primate,
with a fork red velvet lined to hold if you fall, and wearing a brocade
gown scarlet as a cardinal!

So it seems in that suit, according to the choirmaster, who knows much about such things, a certain
tooth or do not know how, living in Italy for centuries and went
to hell, writing his journey in verse.

Steps sounded on a narrow spiral staircase, punching the wall, connected the welcome to the upper
floor.

- It Don Luis - said Wooden Staff -. Going to say his Mass in the chapel of the Tabernacle,
and then the chorus.

Gabriel got up from the couch to greet the priest.

It was small and weak constitution, highlighting it from the first glance the disparity between
the ailing body and the enormous head.

The front, curved and outgoing with his weight seemed to crush factions brown, irregular, disrupted
by the imprint of smallpox.

It was ugly, however, expression of his blue eyes, the brightness
of the teeth healthy and white alike, who seemed to light mouth, and
smile naive, almost childlike, which folded lips, gave his face that
sympathetic expression reveals to simple absorbed in artistic hobbies.

-
"So the Lord is the brother of whom you spoke me so much? - Said to
hear the presentation Stephen was doing.

Gabriel put his hand in friendship.

Both were sickly: the imbalance Organic seemed to attract them as brothers.

- Since the Lord has studied at the Seminary - said the Kapellmeister - know something music.

-
That's all I remember from those lessons.

- And so much traveling around the world, have heard good things ...!

- Something about that. Music is for me the most gratifying of the arts. I understand some of it,
but "I feel it."

- Very good, very good. We'll be friends.

And you will tell me things. How I envy him for having run the world ...!

He talked like a restless child, not wanting to sit for more than
Silentiary, each of developments around the room, offered a chair.

Went back and forth with raw mantle and the tile in hand, a poor
hat no trace of hair, dented, with a layer of fat in the wings, miserable
and old as the cassock and shoes.

Despite this poverty, the teacher chapel had a certain elegance.

Her hair, too grown for custom ecclesiastical is curled at the top of the skull. The arrogance
with which folded his cloak around of her body reminded layer opera tenors. There was a certain
amount of panache profane that betrayed the artist buried in clerical
robes, eager to fly out of them, leaving them to their feet like a
shroud.

They reached the room, like distant thunder, some severe strokes that shook the cloister.

- Man, they call in unison - said Tato -.

And we should be in the "cathedral. It's almost eight.

- It's true, man's funny that you who remember me. Underway.

Then he said to the priest musician:

- Don Luis, his Mass is at eight. Will talk after things with Gabriel. Now, the obligation. Can
be drawn to the dessert, as you say, because in these times the devil
hardly gives the office to eat.

The choirmaster nodded sadly nodded and left after two temple servants, disgruntled, as if you
drag a painful and unpleasant work. Humming absently to shake hands with Gabriel, and he thought
he recognized a fragment of Septimino of music Beethoven, deaf and cut out from the lips of
the young priest.

Moon lay on the sofa, abandoning themselves to be just fatigue after the long wait to the cathedral.
The old woman who served as his brother stood beside him a jug of
milk, filling after a glass.

Gabriel drank, making efforts to master the trembling of her stomach patient, who was struggling
to expel the liquid. Your body, exhausted by the bad night and fatigue of waiting, finally assimilated
food, sinking into a sweet languor that had not in a long time. Gabriel was able to fall asleep,
and so was more than an hour, still in the couch, cutting several
times their uneven breathing with the rattle of hollow cough, that
did not reach his dream fade.

When he awoke, he was hit with a nervous tremor that shook the feet to the head, making him
jump off the couch and the influence of a spring. Was the concern of danger that it had been fixed
for ever in the habit of uneasiness made in the dark dungeons, all the time while waiting to see
the door open to be beaten like a dog or led to the execution table at the double row of rifles,
and more than this, the habit of living in all countries watched, sensing the police spying
around him, caught in the middle of the night in lodging rooms for the order to leave immediately,
the anxiety of the former Asheverus, hardly like a moment of rest, I heard the eternal "Go, go."

He
would not sleep more, as if afraid to suffer again the nightmares of dreaming black. Preferred
reality: the silence of the cathedral which enveloped him in a sweet caress, calm augusta temple,
a huge mountain of carved stone crushing seemed to weigh on him, hiding forever haunted his weakness.

He
left the cloister, and put her elbows on the railing looked at the garden.

The Claverias seemed deserted. Children who encouraged them to start
the day were school, the women in their homes, preparing food.

Throughout the faculty not he was someone else. Sunlight bathed the whole side, the shadow
of the columns cut obliquely large gold boxes covering the tiles. August silence, calm saint
of the cathedral, entered the agitator as sweet narcotic. The seven centuries attached those
stones seemed just like so many veils that isolated from the rest of world. In a room of the
Claverias sounded a hammer ringing incessantly. Was that of a shoemaker that Gabriel had seen,
through the glass of a window, bent at his bedside. In the patch of sky framed by the roofs fly
some pigeons white moving their wings as if in a lake bogasen bright blue. When fatigued, descending
the cloister, and clinging to the railings, undertook a whisper that shook the religious silence
like a sigh of love.

From time to time opened the gates of the cathedral, scattering in the garden and the Claverias a
breath of air laden with incense, organ roars and bass voices singing Latin words solemnly prolonging
the syllables.

Gabriel looked at the garden, bordered by white stone arches and buttresses rough of berroqueña
dark, in whose peak rains left an efflorescence of fungi black velvet
buttons.

The sun descended at an angle of the garden, and the rest was a green light, twilight convent.
The bell tower concealed a piece sky, boasting on its sides red, adorned with daffodils and
Gothic buttresses projections, the strips of black marble head of mysterious figures and coats
of arms of the various bishops who participated in its construction. At the top, near the
pinnacles pure white stone, showed themselves behind huge bells bars, and bronze birds in
iron cages.

Three severe strokes, saying the high mass was at its most solemn moment, echoed throughout the
cathedral. Stone mountain trembled, the vibration transmitted by ships, galleries and arcades
to deep foundations.

Then silence again, which seemed more impressive, deep, after the thunder of bronze. Again he
heard the rustle of the birds, and down in the garden, some birds chirping, as enraged by
the ray of sunshine revived the greenish gloom.

Gabriel was moved.

He gripped the sweet intoxication of silence and quiet absolute:
the happiness of not being.

Beyond those walls was the world, but is not saw, was not felt, respectful and dull parable
to that monument of the past, beautiful burial within which nothing excited his curiosity.
Who could imagine that he was there ...?

That wart of seven centuries, formed by political powers who died and dying faith, would be his
last refuge. At the height of disbelief, the church serve as a place of refuge, as the greatest criminals
of the Middle Ages, from on high Cloister mocked justice, held at the door like beggars. There
would consummation in the silence and calm the slow ruin of his body. There would die, with
the sweet satisfaction for the world have perished long ago.

Finally performed the desire to end his days in a sleepy corner of the Spanish cathedral, only
hope smiled as he walked on foot along the roads of Europe, hiding
from the civil guard or the policeman, and spent the night in a pit,
matted, his beard in the knees, believing die of cold.

Take the cathedral and grab a rest of the shipwrecked vessel, and a near drowning: it was hope,
and just do it. The church welcomed him as a dour old mother who do not laugh, but open arms.

- Finally .... ...-- Finally whispered Luna.

He smiled thinking about that world of persecution and pain that he left as a place remotely
located on another planet, he'd never return. The cathedral in store for you forever.

In the deep silence of the cloister, which did not reach the street noises, the companion Luna thought
he heard, far, far away, the shrill sound of bugles, and after a dull roll drums. Then he remembered
the Alcazar of Toledo, which seems to dominate since its height Cathedral, intimacy with the
heavy mass of the towers. These were the bugles of the Academy Military.

A Gabriel harmed these sounds. Had lost sight of the world, and when it was believed far, far away
from him, felt his presence, just beyond the roofs of the temple.

II

Since the time of the second Cardinal de Bourbon, was Mr. Esteban Luna gardener cathedral, seemed
right in your family connected. What was the first moon came the service of Holy Church Primate?
The gardener, to ask the question, smiled with satisfaction, and his eyes looked to the infinite, as
if to encompass the vastness of time.

The Moon were as old as the foundations of the church. Had been born several generations in
the chambers of the upper cloister, and when the illustrious Cisneros
had not yet built the Claverias, the Moon lived in neighboring houses,
as if it could exist outside the Primate shadow. No one owned the
cathedral with a better right than them. Passed canons, beneficiaries
and archbishops, won the seat, died, and another for the post; was
a parade of new faces of gentlemen who came from all corners of Spain
to sit in the chorus to die years later, leaving the post to other
newcomers, and the moon always in place, as if the ancient family
was a pillar of the many who hold the temple. Could it be that one
day the archbishop was called Bernardo, was called a year next Don
Gaspar and another Don Fernando, it was impossible and implausible
that the cathedral could exist without a moon in the garden, in the
sacristy or in the crossing, used for centuries for their services.

The
gardener spoke with pride of his race: his noble and unfortunate kinsman
Constable Don Alvaro buried like a king in the chapel behind the high
altar of Pope Benedict XIII proud and stubborn as all of the family
of Don Pedro de Luna, V of his name on the chair Archbishop of Toledo,
and other relatives no less illustrious.

- We are all the same stock
- said with pride -. We all came to the conquest of Toledo with the
good King Alfonso VI. Only took him like a moon to kill Moors, and
were lords and conquered castles, and others, my grandparents were
in the service of the cathedral, as zealous Christians they were.

With
the satisfaction of a Duke who has parents or grandparents, Mr Stephen
went back the chain of the Moon to falter and lose in the fifteenth
century.  As a consequence,
we had political discussions, which were protracted far into the night, for the principal meal
of the twenty-four hours was a 10 o'clock P.M. supper, at which, after the inevitable macaroni,
were many unwholesome dishes, such as salads made of thistles, cows' udders, and other delicacies,
which deprived one of all desire for sleep.  Notwithstanding which, we rose early, my hostess
and the ladies of the establishment appearing in the early part of the day in the most extreme
deshabille.  Indeed, on one occasion when I was first introduced into the family of a respectable
citizen, and shown into my bedroom, I mistook one of two females who were making the bed for
the servant, and was surprised to see her hand a little douceur I gave her as an earnest of
attention on her part, to the other with a smile.  She soon afterwards went to bed: we all
did, from 11 A.M. till about 3 P.M., at which hour I was horrified to meet her arrayed in silks
and satins, and to find that she was the wife of my host.  She kindly took me a drive with
her in a carriage and pair, and with a coachman in livery.

It was by this simple means, and by thus imposing myself upon the hospitality of these unsophisticated
people, that I worked my way by slow degrees, chiefly on foot, into the part of the country
I desired to visit; and I trust that I in a measure repaid them for it by the stores of information
which I imparted to them, and of which they stood much in need, and by little sketches of their
homes and the surrounding scenery, with which I presented them.  I was, indeed, dependent in
some measure for hospitality of this description, as I had taken no money with me, partly because,
to tell the truth, I had scarcely got any, and partly because I was afraid of being robbed
by brigands of the little I had.  I therefore eschewed the character of a milordo Inglese;
but I never succeeded in dispelling all suspicion that I might not be a nephew of the Queen,
or at least a very near relative of "Palmerston" in disguise.  It was so natural, seeing what
a deep interest both her Majesty and the Prime Minister took in Italy, that they should send
some one incognito whom they could trust to tell them all about it.

Meantime, I was not surprised, when I came to know the disposition of the inhabitants, at the
success of brigandage.  It has never been my fortune before or since to live among such a timid
population.  One day at a large town a leading landed proprietor received notice that if he
did not pay a certain sum in black-mail,--I forget at this distance of time the exact amount,--his
farm or masseria would be robbed.  This farm, which was in fact a handsome country-house, was
distant about ten miles from the town.  He therefore made an appeal to the citizens that they
should arm themselves, and help him to defend his property, as he had determined not to pay,
and had taken steps to be informed as to the exact date when the attack was to be made in default
of payment.  More than 300 citizens enrolled themselves as willing to turn out in arms.  On
the day preceding the attack by the brigands, a rendezvous was given to these 300 on the great
square for five in the morning, and thither I accordingly repaired, unable, however, to induce
my host to accompany me, although he had signed as a volunteer. The old industry had disappeared. Segovia, famous for their cloths,
which occupied in the manufacture about forty thousand people, scarcely had fifteen thousand, and
so forgotten knitting wool, that when King Philip V wished to restore manufacturing workers
had to bring Germans.

- And Seville and Valencia, and Medina del Campo, famous for its fair and its industries - continued
Gabriel -. Sevilla, which in the fifteenth century had sixteen thousand silk looms, arrived
in the seventeenth to no more than sixty-five. It is true that, however, was his cathedral
clergy one hundred and seventeen canons and was sixty-eight convents with more than four thousand
monks and fourteen thousand priests in the diocese. What about Toledo? A late fifteenth century
employed fifty thousand workers in silk and wool and weapons workshops, and more tanners, silversmiths,
and jewelers glover. At the end of XVII was not only fifteen thousand inhabitants. All dead,
all ruined, twenty-five houses of illustrious families came to power the convents, there was no
richer in the city that the monks, the archbishop and the cathedral. Spain I was so anemic at the
end of Habsburg, which was about to be distributed among the powers Europe, like Poland, another
Catholic people as ours.

The discord among kings was the only thing that saved us.

If those days were so bad, Gabriel - said the Silver Stick - how the
Spanish showed much conformity?

Why did not pronouncements and insurgencies like this time of ruin?

- What they should do? The despotism of the two Caesars had imposed on the Spanish one blind obedience
to kings, as God's representatives. The clergy educated them on this belief, by the community of
interest between the Church and the Throne. Even the most illustrious poets corrupted the people,
extolling the monarchy servility in his plays. Calderon said that the farm and city life did not
belong to it, they were the king. In addition, religion filled him all, was the sole purpose
of existence, and Spanish, always thinking in the sky, had just get used to the miseries of
the earth. No doubt you that excessive religiosity ruined us and was coming to kill us as a
nation. Even now drag the consequences of this disease that has lasted for centuries .... To
save from death to this country, what was to do? Call abroad, and came the Bourbons. Look
here if you would come below, that neither military had. In this land, in the absence of other
merits, since the time Celtiberian we have always had a fighting warlords. Well, in the War of
Succession had to bring British and French generals and officers to, because there was no Spanish- knew
point a gun or send a company. There was no one to serve as minister, and foreign were all rulers
of Felipe V and Fernando VI, foreigners who came to restore industry losses, to break up the
abandoned lands, to set the old irrigation and establish colonies in the wilderness frequented by
wild beasts and bandits. Spain, which had colonized half the world in its own way, was himself
discovered and colonized by Europeans. The Spanish appeared to be poor Indians led by their chief Friar
rags and adorned with scapulars and miraculous relics. Anti-clericalism was the only remedy for such
ruin, and this spirit settlers came with foreigners. Philip V wished to abolish the Inquisition
and finish naval war with Muslim nations, which lasted a thousand years, depopulating the Mediterranean
coast with fear of the Barbary pirates and Turks. But the Indians revolted against all reform
of the settlers, and the first Bourbon had to withdraw, seeing a threat to their crown. Then, his
immediate successors, with more roots in the country, dared to continue his work. Carlos III,
to civilize Spain, only had to get their hands on the Church, limiting their privileges and income,
taking care of things on earth and forgetting the sky. It saw the same show that in our century,
when governments play ecclesiastical interests. The bishops protested, speaking on pastoral and letters
of "the persecution of the poor Church, looted their property, insulted and trampled on his
ministers in their immunities "; But the country woke up, enjoying the only prosperous period
known in modern times before the seizure. Europe was then ruled by philosopher kings and Carlos
III was one of them. The echo of the English Revolution still vibrated in the world. The monarchs
wanted to be loved, not feared, and almost all nations struggling with the brutalization of masses,
the progressive reforms of imposing order and nearly real strength. But the great evil of monarchy
is the legacy system, the power connected in a family. A man good sense and honest intentions
can engender a fool: after Carlos III reigned Carlos IV, and if this were not enough, the
year of that monarch die Revolution broke French, with their audacity, they went crazy and
all the kings of Europe. A Bourbon of Spain was their head to get it back no longer. Derailed,
got out of the way once again embracing the Church as the only salvation to the revolutionary
danger, and yet have not returned or will return to the good path. Jesuits, priests and bishops to
be the directors became palace, and still are now, as in the days when Charles II consulted plans
military and political ties with a board of theologians. We have minds that have had revolutions overthrown
the people, not ideas. Something we have advanced, but hopping timidly with disorderly retreats,
as you go with fear, and suddenly, at the slightest noise, runs away to the point of departure.
The transformation has been more internal than external. People still live with the soul of
the seventeenth century. She remains in fear, cowardice that inspired the inquisitorial bonfire.
The Spanish have marrow slave, his arrogance and energy are external. No wonder it is home to
three centuries of ecclesiastical bondage. Make revolutions, are able to rebel, but always stop at
the threshold of the Church, which was his lady by force and continues without it. No fear of
falling here: are you quiet, Don Antolin, and what, in justice, have many accounts that ask about
past. Is it because they are religious and at other times? You know not, and rightly complains
watching extinguished without the assistance popular, the old grandeur of the Church.

- That's right - said the Silver Stick -. There is no faith, no one is able to make a sacrifice
the house of God. Only in the hour of death, when the fear comes,
remember some to help with his fortune.

- No faith, that's the truth.

Spanish, after that she almost religious fever death occurred, lives in a domestic indifference,
not by scientific thinking, but thinking weak. Known to go to heaven or to hell think so because
they have taught, but is carried away by the stream of life without
any effort to choose one place or another.

It is the most practical man of religion and less thought about. Not sure or create. Agree
to be bound, living in an intellectual somnambulism. If you ever thought, revealed, suggests
a critical time for the stalls on fear. The inquisition yet living among us are not afraid
of fire, but because we fear the "what people say." Society parked refractory to all innovation
is the modern Inquisition. The clashing, coming out overall and monotonous vulgarity, it attracts
the wrath of the great mass deaf shocked and suffer the punishment. If he is poor, is subjected to the
test by cutting hunger means Life, if self-employed, you will burn in effigy, creating a vacuum
around it. Must be right, abide by the established, and hence, bound together by fear, does not
arise an original idea, there is no independent thought, and even wise to keep them the conclusions
they draw from the study, submitting in life to the same uses vulgar and concerns of fools.
While this continues, it is useless task of revolutionaries in this country. Apparently able
to change the face of the land but to sink the spade find stone forever and ever united and compact.
The national character, losing religious faith has not changed. Faith is dead, but is the body
with vital appearances, ranking same site, blocking the way with his mum hardness. They say revolutionary,
with his desire not out of tune, this simulation of life. Mimic the respect and tolerance the
winners from other countries, but not before learning the momentum disrespectful and stunned with
other people collapsed and kicked the past without mercy or scruple. Poor and cornered is the church,
Don Antolin, compared to what it was in earlier centuries, but not subject you to worsen their situation.
The tide reached its height and it will not there. While in this country people afraid to speak
his mind, and be shocked with a new idea, and afraid of what he said the neighbor, laugh of revolutions,
as however many do not explode you reach the water at the mouth.

Don Antolin laugh listening to this.

- But man, Gabrielillo, you must be crazy. These trips and these readings have upset you. At
first I was outraged, believing yourself to those who want a revolution to take away what
little we have left and proclaim the mort of the Republic, abolishing the church budget. But
I see you over there, with nothing you settle for, everything seems
bad ... and this makes me laugh.

Not a terrible enemy, because it strips too far.

I think as you walk out of your mind as chest .... But man, do you still look like little revolutions
we've had? And yet you think the country is as wild as in those centuries have painted your way
...? Well, I - the priest said with irony - I hear a lot of progress in the country, and I know there
are railways and around cities are filled with fireplaces, and even many wicked celebrate this, comparing
them to church steeples.

- Bah! - Gabriel said with a look of indifference -. Something about those developments. Revolutions
policies have put Spain into contact with Europe. The stream has taken this progressive country,
dragging and dragging the peoples of Asia and Oceania. Today nobody escapes it. But we go downstream,
inert and powerless, if we advance, is the current, not by our force,
while other people swim and swim stronger and away from the more.

How have we contributed to this progress? Where are our signs of life modern? The railroads, few and bad,
are the work of foreigners, and they owned their property, between the rails, the grass grows,
showing that the holy calm still of those carts and galleys times accelerated. The most important
industries, the metallurgy and mining, are also foreigners, or Spanish who are subject to them,
living by his protective mercy. The vegetable industry in the shadow of protectionism barbarian
urges gender, encouraging its flaws, and still can not find capital. The money is saved in the
fields in the form of treasure at the bottom of a jar, or engages to usury in populations, as
in past centuries. The boldest dare dedicate to the purchase of government securities, and
governments continue to waste, insurance you will always find those who pay them and praising
this loan as a manifestation prosperity of the country. In Spain two million hectares of uncultivated
land, twenty-six million a million rain-fed and irrigated only. This dry farming, which is to be all
our agriculture, is a call that makes the hunger Spanish apathy, a perpetual demonstration
of fanaticism, which relies on praying and in the sky rain advances in men. The rolling rivers
into the seas for about regions scorched, overflowing in the winter to fertilize, but to drag
in the mud momentum of the flood. There are new stone churches and conventions and not for dams
and reservoirs. Rise towers and cut trees, which attract rain. And I do not argue you Again, Antolin,
that the church is poor and has nothing to blame. The poor are you, Church's traditional tolerance,
the religion of the Spanish, in which is fashion and the faithful are going with the latest,
but there are the Jesuits, the manifestation modern Catholicism, the "latest addition", whose
Heart of Jesus and other idolatries French to build palaces and churches everywhere, diverting
money that was before on the cathedrals and being the only show of wealth. But back to our
progress. Worse even than the drought, agriculture is to our ignorance and routine village
farmer. All inventions and scientific application reject it, believing it wrong. "The were the good
old days. So grew my grandparents and so I must. "Ignorance is converted to national glory.
And there to wait for now the remedy. In other countries out of universities and colleges reformers,
fighters progress. Here only schools produce a proletariat eager coat living, which assails the
professions and public office without any other desire than to break through and this situation
to continue. Addressed (if at school) for a few years, not for knowledge but to acquire a diploma,
a piece of paper that authorizes earn bread. You learn what the professor recites without any
curiosity to go beyond. Teachers are mostly doctors and lawyers who pursue their career, are one
hour every day sit in the chair, like a phonograph repeating what they said in previous years,
and become immediately to their patients and their arguments, without knowing what is written
and said by the world after they won their job. Spanish culture is second hand, purely outside, "translated
from French," and even that for the small minority that reads, because the rest so-called intellectuals
have no library studying texts of boys and hear the progress of European thought ... the newspapers.
The Parents, eager to secure as soon as the future of their children through a career send
them to schools can barely speak. The student-man in other countries in all the fullness of
his reason, does not exist here. The universities are filled with children, in institutes are
only shorts. The Spanish, shaving for the first time, is already licensed and go to doctor.
The nurse will end up sitting next to the professor.
  I had nothing for it
but to turn round, let him almost run against the muzzle of my air- gun, pull the trigger,
and see him fall in his tracks.  It was the work of a second, but it checked my pursuers. 
They had heard no noise, but they found something that they did not bargain for, and lingered
a moment, then they took up the chase with redoubled fury.  But I had too good a start; and
where the path joined the main road, instead of turning down towards the town, as they expected
I would, I dodged round in the opposite direction, the uncertain light this time favouring
me, and I heard their footsteps and their curses dying away on the wrong track. Nevertheless
I ran on at full speed, and it was not till the day was dawning that I began to feel safe and
relax my efforts.  The sun had been up an hour when I reached a small town, and the little
locanda was just opening for the day when I entered it, thankful for a hot cup of coffee, and
a dirty little room, with a dirtier bed, where I could sleep off the fatigue and excitement
of the night.  I was strolling down almost the only street in the afternoon when I met a couple
of carabineers riding into it, and shortly after encountered the whole troop, to my great delight,
in command of an intimate friend whom I had left a month before in Naples.

"Ah, caro mio!" he exclaimed, when he saw me, "well met.  What on earth are you doing here?--looking
for those brigands you were so anxious to find when you left Naples?  Considering that you
are in the heart of their country, you should not have much difficulty in gratifying your curiosity."

"I have had an adventure or two," I replied carelessly.  "Indeed that is partly the reason
you find me here.  I was just thinking how I could get safely back to Ascoli, when your welcome
escort appeared; for I suppose you are going there, and will let me take advantage of it."

"Only too delighted; and you can tell me your adventures.  Let us dine together tonight, and
I will find you a horse to ride on with us in the morning."

I am afraid my account of the episode with which I have acquainted the reader was not strictly
accurate in all its details, as I did not wish to bring down my military friends on poor Valeria,
so I skipped all allusion to her and my detention in her home; merely saying that I had had
a scuffle with brigands, and had been fortunate enough to escape under cover of the night.
As we passed it next morning I recognised the path which led up to Valeria's cottage, and shortly
after observed that young woman herself coming up the glen.

"Holloa!" I said, with great presence of mind as she drew near, "my lovely model, I declare!
Just you ride on, old fellow, while I stop and ask her when she can come and sit to me again."

"You artists are sad rogues,--what chances your profession must give you!" remarked my companion,
as he cast an admiring glance on Valeria, and rode discreetly on.

"There is nothing to be afraid of, lovely Valeria," I said in a low tone, as I lingered behind;
"be sure I will never betray either you or your rascally--hem!  I mean your excellent Croppo.
By the way, was that man much hurt that I was obliged to trip up?"

"Hurt!  Santa Maria, he is dead, with a bullet through his heart.  Croppo says it must have
been magic; for he had searched you, and he knew you were not armed, and he was within a hundred
yards of you when poor Pippo fell, and he heard no sound."

"Croppo is not far wrong," I said, glad of the opportunity thus offered of imposing on the
ignorance and credulity of the natives.  "He seemed surprised that he could not frighten me
the other night.  Tell him he was much more in my power than I was in his, dear Valeria," I
added, looking tenderly into her eyes.  "I didn't want to alarm you, that was the reason I
let him off so easily; but I may not be so merciful next time.  Now, sweetest, that kiss you
owe me, and which the wall prevented your giving me the other night."  She held up her face
with the innocence of a child, as I stooped from my saddle.

"I shall never see you again, Signer Inglese," she said, with a sigh; "for Croppo says it is
not safe, after what happened the night before last, to stay another hour.  Indeed he went
off yesterday, leaving me orders to follow to-day; but I went first to put your sketch-book
under the bush where the donkey fell, and where you will find it."

It took us another minute or two to part after this; and when I had ridden away I turned to
look back, and there was Valeria gazing after me. "Positively," I reflected, "I am over head
and ears in love with the girl, and I believe she is with me.  I ought to have nipped my feelings
in the bud when she told me she was his wife; but then he is a brigand, who threatened both
my ears and my tongue, to say nothing of my life.  To what extent is the domestic happiness
of such a ruffian to be respected?" and I went on splitting the moral straws suggested by this
train of thought, until I had recovered my sketch-book and overtaken my escort, with whom I
rode triumphantly back into Ascoli, where my absence had been the cause of much anxiety, and
my fate was even then being eagerly discussed.  My friends with whom I usually sat round the
chemist's door, were much exercised by the reserve which I manifested in reply to the fire
of cross-examination to which I was subjected for the next few days; and English eccentricity,
which was proverbial even in this secluded town, received a fresh illustration in the light
and airy manner with which I treated a capture and escape from brigands, which I regarded with
such indifference that I could not be induced even to condescend to details.  "It was a mere
scuffle; there were only four; and, being an Englishman, I polished them all off with the 'box,'"--and
I closed my fist, and struck a scientific attitude of self-defence, branching off into a learned
disquisition on the pugilistic art, which filled my hearers with respect and amazement.  From
this time forward the sentiment with which I regarded my air-gun underwent a change.  When
a friend had made me a present of it a year before, I regarded it in the light of a toy, and
rather resented the gift as too juvenile.  I wonder he did not give me a kite or a hoop, I
mentally reflected.  Then I had found it useful among Italians, who are a trifling people,
and like playthings; but now that it had saved my life, and sent a bullet through a man's heart,
I no longer entertained the same feeling of contempt for it. Would you talk about the misery in the world? For recipe singing:
bread for the poor, charity to the wealthy and much Christian doctrine for all, so men do not
fight if you have more than me, and the world will be in conformity and decency, what is needed. What,
man? You laugh? Well, I like the recipe for your Eminence, especially the bread, as the Catechism
damned if needed, since all We learn as children.

The dog catcher showed increasing enthusiasm talking about her prince.

-
And as a man?

All of a Barbie. None of hypocrisy and to keep his head down. It serves him right know who was
a soldier in his youth. Aunt Tomasa remember seeing him in the cloister with a helmet of hair,
epaulets and a sergeant who was arming Shiv loudly. He did not is afraid of nothing, or shocked,
or make a fuss. Docked here last year some Portuguese lady who brought the cadets crazy with
her silk stockings and big hats. You know Jack and know who is the son of a nephew of His Eminence
long dead. As the boy walked his uniform Zocodover Portuguese arm to make them jealous a fellow
of the Academy. One day the girl to the palace, and servitude see it with such luxuries, the
free passage left, thinking it was a lady from Madrid. His Eminence greeted her with a paternal
smile, listening to her without blinking. He told me a page friend, who was present. The slut was
going to complain to his nephew Cardinal cadet, who had entertained two days without giving it
a penny. His Eminence modestly smiled: "Madame, the church is poor, I do not want that for this
skull suffered by the good name of the family. Take and shadow. " And he ran away two dollars.
The Portuguese, encouraged by the welcome, wanted to scream, thinking Don Sebastian to terrify
the scandal. But we had to see His Eminence when he came the rage. "Chico, call the police
shouted to the page. And such was his face, which the Portuguese lady stampede left, leaving
on the table two pieces of silver.

Gabriel laughed listening to this story.

- All a man, believe me,
man .... I love him because he has the council in a fist, not is like
its predecessor, that soups with milk, who could only pray and trembled
at the last canon.

What you go for it with raucous! You have guts to go one evening in the choir and clean it
sticks with the staff. More than two months ago that does not go to the cathedral and see him
the canons. The last time a commission of the offense was a palace, the servants trembled.
Iban do not know what to propose reform in the first and started saying: 'Sir, the council
opinion ... "Don Sebastian interrupted them, made a basilisk:" The council can not say anything;
the council has no common sense. "And he turned away, leaving them made of stone. Then he shouted,
punching fists in the furniture, which should make it possible for all vacancies in the cathedral
are covered with peorcito the clergy, who come into the council's cures drunks, crooks, etc. "I burst
to the council - screaming - I want it dirty; and learn to speak less of me, I want to cover
it, yes sir, cover of ... And already contain you, uncle, what does Your Eminence cover the canons.
The poor's right. Why have to put the choir on whether Don Sebastian live like this or that and
have this mess or the other? Do not you let him do what they want? Would you perhaps say a word
of their visiteos scandalous despite all Toledo knows?

- What do they say the canons of Cardinal?

- They talk about Johnny is his grandson and his father, who died,
and appeared as nephew His Eminence was a son who was of a lady when
he was bishop in Spain.

But this does not seem to irritate a lot of Don Sebastian. Another thing you mad, to inflame
the fistula and make it become a demon speaking of Dona Visitation.

- Who is that lady?

- Go! This is good! Do you still do not know Dona Visitation, when the cathedral and outside it
does not speak for someone else? As the niece of His Eminence, who lives with him in the palace.
She is the boss. Don Sebastian, terrible as it is, becomes an angel when sees. Rage, screaming
and almost bites, in the days that damn itchy disease, but occurs Visit Donna, and then it contains,
suffers in silence, moaning like a child, and she just a sweet little word you say or make you
a mime, so that His Eminence is drool taste ... He wants a lot!

- But it is strangely ...?-- asked Gabriel.

- Sure, it's what you think! What else could it be? I was at the College of Maidens Nobles since
childhood, and just came to Toledo Cardinal, took it out, take home. What so blind infatuation of
Don Sebastian! And the fact is that it's not worth it: a señoritinga Skinny and pale, with large
eyes and good hair, that's all. They say he sings, plays piano, who reads and knows many things
we teach at the college so rich, you have the grace Chalao God to bring His Eminence. In the
cathedral happens sometimes by the arc, made a Beatita, habit and
veil, accompanied by a criadota ugly.

- It is not what you think,
boy.

- Go!

All the council says, and more formal canons believe at face value.

Even those who are friends and favorite of His Eminence and bring him messages from what is
here murmurs against him deny it very hot. And Don Sebastian is indignant, is angry every
Once a murmuring of them reaches their ears. If you were told that the choir was going to get
a dance, unless you irritate when you know you are in Dona Visit languages.

The dogcatcher was silent for a moment, as if he doubted on releasing
something serious.

- This lady is very good.

All they want palace because he speaks softly. In addition, if you use your great power over the
Cardinal, is to spare the chillerías of His Eminence, many times in his times of pain angry, to shed
some cups and plates at the head family members. Why have to stick with it? Does it make any
damage perhaps? Each at home, and who is evil and God will punish him.

He scratched his temple, as once again faltering.

- For what Dona
Visit Cardinal is about - he said - no doubt in my mind.

I have data, man. I know so much how they live. A family has seen many times kissing. That is,
the two kissing, no. She was the one who kissed her, and Don Sebastian welcomed with a smile
Angelone pampering of their kitten. The poor fellow is so old ...!

And had their confidences Tato obscene assumptions.

This slander against the cardinal, who rose from the sacristy to the cloister, irritated Gabriel's
brother. The Wooden Staff, enlisted member of the Church, could not listen calmly attacks on his
superiors. For him it was all slander. Like Don Sebastian had spoken to the canons of all
previous archbishops, which did not prevent after were dead saints. When surprised to Tato repeating
the gossip Claverias below, threatening him with all his authority
as head of the family.

Esteban was sad seeing the state of health of his brother. He praised the conduct of it, always
cautious, welcoming the respectful silence of the cathedral customs without a word escaped him
revealing his past, the atmosphere was proud of admiration surrounding his brother, the eagerness
with which ordinary people listened to his travel cloister, but the
disease was sorry to Gabriel, the certainty that death had put in
him hand, and only care about him was delaying the time of possession.

There were days when Silentiary Gabriel smiled with satisfaction seeing
and hearing a good color less often painful coughs.

- Boy, that is
fine - he said cheerfully.

- Yes - Gabriel answered - but do not
Forjes illusions.

I am a firm hold. That will come your time. You are who repels. But one day be more than you.

The
certainty that death would eventually beat Stephen kindled, making
step care.

He appealed to supercharging as the only remedy, and always approaching Gabriel, was with
something in their hands.

- Eat this .... Drink what you bring.

And he struggled with that broken body, with an upset stomach by poverty, with injured lungs
and heart subject to disruption in the operation, with the machine
battered by a human life of suffering and emotions.

The constant watch over the sick man had disrupted the economic life of Stephen. Their mean
poor salary and choirmaster support barely sufficient for that mouth-consuming more than all
the house together. Later this month, Stephen implore the help of Rod silver to finish the last
few days, thus entering into the submissive and miserable gray tied to the usury of the priest.
Other times, the chapel master, living for a moment in reality, we
gave a few pesetas, sacrificing the enjoyment of getting a new score.

Gabriel guess the hardships that the brother was undergoing, and wanted to contribute to the
costs of the house. But what work could be found in isolation within the cathedral? Longed one placed
at the temple earlier this month to collect a few pesetas hands the Silver Stick, not be so
burdensome to her brother.

But all the seats were occupied; only death could open holes, and there were many hungry people
waiting for the occasion, claiming family rights.

His inability to be helpful to the brother and the sacrifice of it
is less expensive was so saddened to Gabriel, disturbing the placid
monotony of their existence.

Asked Esteban what could do to not be idle, and the brother responded with its expression kind:

-
Taking care nothing but take care.

You have no other obligation than to keep your health. I'm here for the rest.

Easter came, and Gabriel found time to earn some wages. Iban raise in the cathedral's famous Monument
in the choir and the door of forgiveness. It was a factory heavy and complicated, sumptuous Baroque
style, which had cost at the beginning of the century a fortune to the second Cardinal de Bourbon.
A forest of timber scaffolding was Monument, the wealth of the cardinal
had made a solid waste and luxury, and to build the sacred coffin
many days were needed and not a few workers.

Gabriel was seen with Don Antolin, asking a place in the work.

There were seven actual daily I could give to his brother for two weeks, and he was accustomed
in the past to see their work rewarded generously, welcomed this wage as an unexpected fortune.

The
Wooden Staff protested indignantly. Gabriel was ill and should not compromise its poor health with work
efforts. What would I do, coughing and choking each moment, at that very heavy task of transporting
timber and snap? The patient was reassured. He knew they were the work in the temple, everything
was done sparingly, without haste time. The workers in the service of the Church working with the quiet
lazy and slow seem prudent to wrap all the acts of religion. In addition, the Silver Stick,
knowing status, we reserved the job less painful, put screws and pins, align the chandeliers
of the steps, mending tapestries trusted him as a man of good glad
you had seen much in his travels.

Gabriel spent two weeks in the Monument. This period of relative activity seemed to cause true
welfare.

Moved, stirred giving orders to his co-workers of the temple was to the top of the Claverias, where
they kept the monument, and to be covered with dust, with members weary from the incessant comings
and goings, it was the illusion that he was healthy.

In those two weeks did not enter the house of the shoemaker and almost
lost sight of their fellow members.

Ringer and friends admired him. A man of much wisdom, and worked, as any of them, to help your
brother!

Mrs. Tomasa stopped him one morning next to the garden gate.

- There is news, Gabriel. I know where our slut. I will not say more, but be prepared to help
me. The day you least expect it you see in the cathedral.

He finished the erection of the monument. All part of the church from the choir and the door
Sorry was occupied by the colorful and heavy plant. The Toledo came to admire, as traditional
custom, the stairway deck tight rows of lights, Legionnaires Alabaster Roman leaning on their spears,
and rich shade of many folds, coming down from the ceiling to the platform of the monument.

On
Holy Thursday evening was Gabriel contemplating what was somehow
his work confused in the group of devotees.

The cathedral was smiling with his immaculate whiteness, despite
of the black veils covering images and altars.

The blotted with bright rosettes jets of the funereal colors of the
wedding ceremony.

In the chorus wailed a voice Under the cries and songs of the Oriental prophets. These laments for
the death of Christ is lost without echo in the medieval church,
democratic monument of an era that introduced religious expansion
in all its joy of living under the walls, while death and destruction
were in the fields.

Gabriel felt that he pulled the jacket, and turned to see the gardener.

- Come, nephew. We already have there. Awaits you in the cloister.

Upon leaving, Mrs. Tomasa was a woman attached to the stone base of
the garden, crouching, wrapped in a tattered shawl, with the head
scarf thrown over his eyes.

Gabriel had not ever known.

He remembered the pink face two years before, and looked with astonishment
faded youth face, bony, high cheekbones, deep dark circles, and the
eyes of a few eyebrows, no eyelashes, his pupils still beautiful,
but marred by vitreous opacity.

All revealed in her misery and despair. The skirt was summer and peered under broken boots, much
bigger than your feet.

- Saluda, girl - said the old - it is your uncle Gabriel, an angel of God, despite his escapades.
He you that I have sought.

The planter Sagrario pushed to his uncle. But the girl lowered her head, curling back and back,
like I could not resist the presence of a member of his family. Covered his face with the wretched
scarf, hiding her tears.

- Tia, go home - said Gabriel -. This creature is not right here.

On the stairs of the cloister were passed before the girl, coming
up with his head hidden without looking, as if his feet instinctively
march by those steps.

- We arrived this morning in Madrid - said
the gardener as they went -.

I've had in an inn, making time to bring the evening to the cathedral.

Best time: Esteban is in the chorus and you'll have time to fix this ... I spent three days there.
Oh, Gabriel, my son! What have I seen! In what place was this poor girl! What the hell is there
to poor women! And yet they say they are Christians! A daemon is what we are ...! Thanks that I
have my knowledge in court: people who have been bells in the cathedral and remember the gardener.
All I needed, even money, to bring this unhappy from the clutches of the devil.
The upper cloister was deserted. Arriving at the gate of the moon,
the girl, as if awakened sleepy his departure, it was back with a
look of terror, as if in room waiting for him in great danger.

-
Come, woman, come - "Aunt -. Is your house: you'd ever return.

And
the push, to make it pass the door. Inside, the reception, stopped
crying. Looking around in astonishment, no doubt afraid of having
gotten there. Her eyes examined all with astonishment, and admiration
for each object were in the same place five years earlier, with a
regularity that cast doubt on whether he had really elapsed. Nothing
changed in that little world that seemed petrified in the shadow of
the cathedral. She was that, leaving him in his youth, returned aviejada
and sick.

It is now nearly twenty-seven years ago--long before the Theosophical Society was founded,
or Esoteric Buddhism was known to exist in the form recently revealed to us by Mr Sinnett{81}--that
I became the chela, or pupil, of an adept of Buddhist occultism in Khatmandhu.  At that time
Englishmen, unless attached to the Residency, were not permitted to reside in that picturesque
Nepaulese town.  Indeed I do not think that they are now; but I had had an opportunity during
the Indian Mutiny, when I was attached to the Nepaulese contingent, of forming an intimacy
with a "Guru" connected with the force.  It was not until our acquaintance had ripened into
a warm friendship that I gradually made the discovery that this interesting man held views
which differed so widely from the popular conception of Buddhism as I had known it in Ceylon--where
I had resided for some years--that my curiosity was roused,--the more especially as he was
in the habit of sinking off gradually, even while I was speaking to him, into trance-conditions,
which would last sometimes for a week, during which time he would remain without food; and
upon more than one occasion I missed even his material body from my side, under circumstances
which appeared to me at the time unaccountable.  The Nepaulese troops were not very often engaged
with the rebels during the Indian Mutiny; but when they were, the Guru was always to be seen
under the hottest fire, and it was generally supposed by the army that his body, so far from
being impervious to bullets, was so pervious to them that they could pass through it without
producing any organic disturbance.  I was not aware of this fact at first; and it was not until
I observed that, while he stood directly in the line of fire, men were killed immediately behind
him, that I ceased to accompany him into action, and determined, if possible, to solve a mystery
which had begun to stimulate my curiosity to the highest pitch.  It is not necessary for me
to enter here into the nature of the conversations I had with him on the most important and
vital points affecting universal cosmogony and the human race and its destiny.  Suffice it
to say, that they determined me to sever my connection with the Government of India; to apply
privately, through my friend the Guru, to the late Jung Bahadoor for permission to reside in
Nepaul; and finally, in the garb of an Oriental, to take up my residence in Khatmandhu, unknown
to the British authorities.  I should not now venture on this record of my experiences, or
enter upon the revelation of a phase hitherto unknown and unsuspected, of that esoteric science
which has, until now, been jealously guarded as a precious heritage belonging exclusively to
regularly initiated members of mysteriously organised associations, had not Mr Sinnett, with
the consent of a distinguished member of the Thibetan brotherhood, and, in fact, at his dictation,
let, if I may venture to use so profane an expression in connection with such a sacred subject,
"the cat out of the bag."  Since, however, the arhats, or illuminati, of the East, seem to
have arrived at the conclusion that the Western mind is at last sufficiently prepared and advanced
in spiritual knowledge to be capable of assimilating the occult doctrines of Esoteric Buddhism,
and have allowed their pupil to burst them upon a thoughtless and frivolous society with the
suddenness of a bomb-shell, I feel released from the obligations to secrecy by which I have
hitherto felt bound, and will proceed to unfold a few arcana of a far more extraordinary character
than any which are to be found even in the pages of the 'Theosophist' or of 'Esoteric Buddhism.'

Owing to certain conditions connected with my linga sharira, or "astral body"--which it would
be difficult for me to explain to those who are not to some extent initiated--I passed through
the various degrees of chela- ship with remarkable rapidity.  When I say that in less than
fifteen years of spiritual absorption and profound contemplation of esoteric mysteries I became
a mahatma, or adept, some idea may be formed by chelas who are now treading that path of severe
ordeal, of the rapidity of my progress: indeed, such extraordinary faculty did I manifest,
that at one time the Guru, my master, was inclined to think that I was one of those exceptional
cases which recur from time to time, where a child-body is selected as the human tenement of
a reincarnated adept; and that though belonging by rights to the fourth round, I was actually
born into the fifth round of the human race in the planetary chain.  "The adept," says an occult
aphorism, "becomes; he is not made."  That was exactly my case.  I attribute it principally
to an overweening confidence in myself, and to a blind faith in others.  As Mr Sinnett very
properly remarks--

   "Very much further than people generally imagine, will mere confidence
   carry the occult neophyte.  How many European readers who would be
   quite incredulous if told of some results which occult chelas in the
   most incipient stages of their training have to accomplish by sheer
   force of confidence, hear constantly in church, nevertheless, the
   familiar Biblical assurances of the power which resides in faith, and
   let the words pass by like the wind, leaving no impression!"

It is true that I had some reason for this confidence--which arose from the fact that prior
to my initiation into Buddhist mysteries, and before I left England, I had developed, under
the spiritual craze which was then prevalent in society, a remarkable faculty of clairvoyance.
This gave me the power not merely of diagnosing the physical and moral conditions of my friends
and acquaintances, and of prescribing for them when necessary, but of seeing what was happening
in other parts of the world; hence my organism was peculiarly favourable for initiation into
occult mysteries, and naturally--or rather spiritually--prepared for that method in the regular
course of occult training by which adepts impart instruction to their pupils.

   "They awaken," as we are most accurately informed by Mr Sinnett, "the
   dormant sense in the pupil, and through this they imbue his mind with
   a knowledge that such and such a doctrine is the real truth.  The
   whole scheme of evolution infiltrates into the regular chela's mind,
   by reason of the fact that he is made to see the process taking place
   by clairvoyant vision.  There are no words used in his instruction at
   all. Certainly works
referred to these observations atinadísimas say little to pure feeling aesthetic, because they
are based on imitation, and its authors, although more or less able, lacked the spirit of
its own: but instead, we can say that by its very simplicity and candor perfectly satisfied
that inspire religious fervor. Compositions These paintings were not real pictures made just
for ornamental and permanent gala Room but small portable oratories, diptychs or triptychs, encharneladas
tables, as they named in the language of the time, and they were all based on issues devotees.
Kings captains and nobles took them to war, and its consequent suffering Travel affairs: what
was at camp today, tomorrow could be seen in a castle, and ignorance or culture of winning depend always
his luck. This line of paints due to generalized dramatically.

For cameras and Tarbes of palaces, castles and houses that Elizabeth
I had in Aranjuez Granada, Seville, Toledo, Toro, Tordesillas, Segovia,
Medina del Campo, was, as stated inventory made after his death, at
the foot of four hundred sixty paintings, almost all of devotion,
and Juana la Loca left thirty-six, on which he inherited from his
mother.

Test that not only kings possessed such works, is that many of them they were gifted, and their
perpetrators should be well paid when we know that Fernando V sent to Michel Flemish painter
who was Our Lady Queen there blessed glory, the sum maravedises of 116,666, around the time
he had served the queen from the early SA 1492, until the fine [6].

[Image: NATIONAL GALLERY LONDON

CHRIST BOUND TO COLUMN

FRAME. Braun, Clement & C ª]

Charles I had more than six hundred paintings, known his power, it
is easy to deduce the treasures that accumulate in the palaces of
the Netherlands, Italy and Spain, only her Aunt Dona Margarita of
Austria, bequeathed more than one hundred paintings, and Francis I
of France, or Henry VIII of England, came to possess similar wealth.

But this treasure is no longer composed exclusively religious works. The Renaissance was in
full swing, the pagan auras awakening the love of Nature had eaten the new blood art, artists
and believers lazy and accounting with accounts of mysticism sincere evangelists had happened
others, inspired by the songs of the heathen poets, put his genius to of classic sensuality, pretending
in his works, with great imaginative power, fables erotic exploits of heroes, gods passions,
female nudity, but these painters, understanding and putting his hand in the tragedy of Calvary or
even to the greatness composition and pageantry of color, were able to fill that deep and
sincere emotion stirred the souls of the founders of the early schools. The Renaissance was founded
in the study of old, was revolution provechosísima art, because he taught her to love beauty heedless
of its origin: but making the fantasy prevail on piety, robbed in general and in particular
to painting naive that something mysterious and independent of any external condition that
seduces and captivates even the worshipers of the form.

The painting for over two centuries had been its sole seat in the churches, have dominion also
from the palaces, varied in nature and even when decorated temples, adorned like palaces.

Do not allow the extension of this modest work, but should look at
the welcome Here were the works of the Renaissance to see later how
his character changed and modified trends.

Carlos I must have been a great admirer of his creations, even those
where more shining free sensuality of paganism, because if it is true
that led him to retire to Yuste large number of devotional paintings,
years ago, as reported by Jusepe Martinez had sent Titian painting,
and a portrait, a few pictures of some poems, which, if not as human
take them by divine big shame for our religion!

Felipe II, when he wrote the same name Titian loved us, we charge
for Tables palaces such as Antiope, Venus and Adonis, and Diana and
Callisto, from which it inferred that it was not prudish in matters
of art, and Philip III and Philip IV, continued to meet similar works
in Madrid and the Pardo.

During this long period, which spans the sixteenth century in Spain dominates Italian taste in
relation to the expression elements that animate the paintings, the most illustrious Dutch, Antonio
Moro, for example, are only sought and followed as portrait painters.

In Valencia, Juan de Juanes paint and Ribalta, in Andalusia, Luis de Vargas, Alejandro Fernández
and the divine Morales. We in Italy, conscientiousness in the study of members of the body,
how to design and arrange the table, the use of light, contrasts and harmonies color, to the
styles and methods of execution, but the trend of the Renaissance
to art was, above all, performance of beauty, and born of the ideals
of the mind already provided in the works of nature, the broad and
open to the boldness Florentine, Roman and Venetian frescoes and deployed
his canvases found few converts in Spain.

The monarchs, whom the Church would not interfere your personal tastes sinful were, still adorning
the palaces and pleasure houses with profanity and mythology: Some lords, did the same, as
follows from what several writers refer at that time [7], but for most of the nation, the
art was a mere auxiliary of feeling religious.

Needless there who persists in denying the grounds that in addition to pictures devotees also
they painted a lot of other issues. To be persuaded of how unfounded this claim, just consider
that among the thousands of paintings of the seventeenth century, preserved in Spain, there are very
few they represent historical episodes or scenes of customs, and
instead is incalculable the number of those inspired by the Old or
New Testament, and the lives of the saints: to the vases were usually
arranged so that as a framework to some sacred image: Pictures were
made in abundance, as always well what lies in human vanity, and no
shortage of still lifes, because many artists taking the genre by
way of study: than just a trace, paint is domestic and family could
say.

Know the life of this century, foreign trips, which tended to exaggerate or lie, for files
documents that speak eloquently to dry and bland, for the theater, that lady's imagination is,
for the picaresque novel, which only raises rates class social, for writers, who always felt
particularly devout, were pleased censor customs, describing the way, but the stubborn brushes on
avoiding any representation of vulgar and profane, left us very few
data on how to live, work, crafts, entertainment, houses, rooms, furniture
and clothes of those knights and soldiers, clerics and students, merchants
and beggars, women, and adventurous comic and devout, matrons and
maids, whose patchwork know only morally, thanks Cervantes and Quevedo,
Tirso and Lope, Zabaleta and Salas Barbadillo, because the limited
painters conventional representation of the sacred profane contempt.

Undoubtedly felt intense love for real beauty, which gave proof watching to the holy figures that aspect
of truth, which they lost in HH, it gained in credibility, but it was not possible that nothing
around them every day they thought the subject worthy of use in this observation and his brushes,
when the voice of the Church, so feared and respected then told that life on earth and transitory,
is low and despicable thing compared of the eternal heaven. This is, in my humble opinion,
the cause of Spanish painting of that time is not used, how it serves the Northern countries
to complete the stadium of the country, reflecting the customs which is a way of reflecting the soul
of nationality.

In Italy, also failed to custom paint great importance, because there the art, thanks the culture
of the papacy, it became eminently monumental: but in the absence and with advantage can not
represent human and vulgar scenes arranged beautiful countryside artists Mythology and unlimited,
where there is no beauty that is not contained, as in his admirable myths, the gods of love
are equated sinning men, and men coming to Heroes for the effort, almost be mistaken for gods.

But
the foundation of the fables and myths, as the case for the arts offer is nude, and Spain,
for which governed the consciences, nudity and dishonesty were same thing. Anyone wishing to be
convinced of this read a few books of those great mystical writers desirable to glory and salvation
possible, had not only beauty, but even the mere bodily form like
a bait and spur of sin.

The author, indeed admirable prose writer whose name has been unjustly forgotten stories our
literature, that with more clarity and energy capable of expressing this hostility to the naked but he
naturally exaggerating its dangers, was the Carmelite Fray Jose de Jesus Maria .-- "The eyesight
- he says - is more effective than ear, and its objects snatched the mood more violence, and
so the motion is more intense awakening with dishonesty lewd pictures than with words, and species
are under repair and reports catch the eye than they are perceived by the ears, because the
words paint a thing absent or already passed, but the paintings are present ... And so the
painters when they fabulous figures and lascivious cooperate with
the devil, winning and increasing tax the kingdom of hell.

This introduction was pestilential, poisonous devil's work and trace particularly in these realms
because (as has been said), to take revenge on the land, Christianity, of having destroyed the
temples and idols which were worshiped in India, introduced in Europe Dishonest figures of naked
women [8].

Questioning or diminishing the strength of this way of thinking, it
is said that after writing such paragraphs, perhaps in those same
years, the monarchs decorated their palaces with works Veronese and
Titian, such that as the intransigence of the mystics could be classified
of sinful, and even that it brought several of Italy Velázquez Felipe
IV, but these paintings were imitated by our painters.

Writers on the arts participated in the same ideas, because although the sixteenth century,
some as Francisco de Hollanda, fell before the genius of the Italians, and others as Don Felipe
de Guevara, preferred to all the remnants of pagan art, instead of the seventeenth century, while
Rafael enthuse and Vinci, declared categorically that main subject of the painting is the glorification
of the faith. Carducho, among other claims seems to accept the opinion of a Greek monk named
Ignacio, says that the painters are ministers of the Word, sufficient attribute apostles, and building
on San Gregorio, San Juan Damascus and the Venerable Bede, says that the Holy Spirit succor
the human weakness the miraculous through the paint and paints the images are like history and
writing for those who are ignorant.

Pacheco, driven by equal fervor, writes that the purpose of painting is through imitation represent
the thing with the courage and property as possible ... and being in grace reach bliss, because
the Christian servant for holy things, not content in their operations to look so lowly ... so
that the painting was intended to resemble the imitated only now as an act of virtue, making
new and rich surcoat, and others resemble, rises for one ultimate purpose, looking to the eternal
glory.

Menéndez Pelayo, who has dealt brilliantly as it relates to our educational writers fine arts,
he says, after most widely copied those paragraphs: "This deep religious sense, or rather ascetic
Pacheco makes the theory a predecessor of spiritualism of Owerbeck, moves him to remove all
the paint eigenvalue considering it only as a way of speaking that
is aimed at persuading the people ... and take it to embrace something
convenient religion.

"

D. Juan de Butrón [9], in a book of insufferable culteranismo feel also the principle of the
taste of a painting, if wisely what we might receive, should rise to knowledge the love of God
and teach the principle that we proceed.

Although the precept that time less speculative and more practical, which was Jusepe Martínez
[10] great admirer of the Italian Catholic who advises the painter paints the choice of to
be made to be venerated not made extravagant postures and movements extraordinary, moving more to
worship indecency, and added elsewhere that religious paintings before
attending to the devotion and decorum that the imitated: reaching
to say to these professions of sculpture and painting has been introduced
to other nothing but to worship and veneration of their saints through
whom His Divine Majesty has acted endless miracles.

This was the concept of the sacred writers were painting and special writers. These doctrines rooted
so hard that a century later still reveal traits of superstition and fanaticism. Palomino Men's
as serious as speaking of a religious holy Charterhouse who had to be removed from the cell
image of Mary, of great perfection, for her great beauty caused him
to dishonesty and P. Ayala Interian exclaims indignantly: "Because
what's all the painting of the Virgin, teacher and model of all virgins,
outdoor head?

What blond hair spread out and lying on the white collar? What uncovered decently those breasts that
nursed the Creator of the world? What, finally paint their feet or totally naked or covered
with little decency? "[11]. So until the Conception Murillo, perhaps the most poetic expression of Catholic
art, became suspicious.

A proper attempt something I have stopped the above, but without insisting
that the matter allows, because such ideas were the cause of that
painting of that time, except the portrait, is limited to the religious
genre.

Without incurring the absurdity of rejecting this phase of the national spirit, let me lament
that their exclusivity would deprive us of other artistic.

But if in regard to the choice of issues, won the love of the supernatural, regarding how to treat
them as representing the human figure, the prevailing one essentially realistic sense. The painting
then creates only Christs and Virgins Santos, but does not give a perfect dream with features,
but by imitation bravest model, its beauty is not an offspring of the mind, not born of the
idea Raphaelesque short, but human nature itself. The types of apostles, martyrs and hermits,
are taken field and the underworld, or are old soldiers of Flanders and Italy: the artist without
caring to ennoble even clean them, put them on the altar and there are revered and adored: persuaded
to encourage and entice the imagination because they have southern
life: Spanish painting is created.

III

YOUTH OF VELAZQUEZ.

Don Diego Rodriguez de Silva y Velázquez was born in Seville, according to tradition, lack of
evidence Borers in the street: it was his father Juan Rodríguez de Silva, a native of Portugal,
but born and resident in Seville, and his mother Ms Jerónima Velázquez [12] was baptized in the
parish St. Peter's June 6, 1599.

Of the great painter's childhood nothing is known: presumably to study a few years with any
professor of humanities at the many who at that time had at Seville, but should not have this
very long literary apprenticeship. Cean Bermudez says, noting that his parents an inclination
the boy decided to painting, because I was always drawing in books
and pamphlets had put more successful in school by Francisco de Herrera
the old, well known for ease in painting as by the harshness of his
genius.

This was so bland condition and hard to put up his daughter for not got nun and her son stole
and fled to Italy. Its paintings reflected his character painted with extraordinary force, to
imitate those who, having Italy became excited state with the grace and elegance of Roman schools
and Florence. If this intransigence was the result of artistic ideals fought more or less or simply
the consequence of his character, nobody can know: the truth is that the disciples suffered
unwillingly and stopped short at his side. The man was intolerable to the teacher. Velázquez, perhaps
by choice or second thoughts on the initiative of their parents, because even had not reached
fourteen years, left the blacksmith's shop and went to Francisco Pacheco. The latter figure
is interesting, both for the self-worth, but because of the influence exercised in the future
of Velázquez.

It is not known for certain whether he was born in Seville, or if
he traveled Italy: what is certain is that he was a man of outstanding
culture and great prestige, painter preceptist and poet.

If I had not written more than verses one would remember him because
concept was damaged, disheveled and cool, without getting closer to
their models Herrera and Rioja, and his friend Góngora was assimilated
only objectionable thing.

Worshiped as a painter Italian-style and although nothing remains of his outstanding merit,
was greatly appreciated in his time, perhaps influencing this estimate before personal garments
powers art: his paintings are more accurate but as cold as his sonnets. Greco tried to Toledo
likened year 1612 without any of their good qualities.

Has passed to posterity because of what he wrote. He wrote in prose interspersed with verses the conversation
Peaceful between Thomistic and gathered, about the mystery of the Immaculate Conception, Our
Lady, and a pamphlet in defense of compatronato of Santa Teresa, which argued against Quevedo's opinion,
as is known, defended the exclusive patronage of Santiago. But composed two works because it deserves
to be estimated. The first is [13] Art painting its antiquity and greatness. In regard to the
relationship between art and religion is founded on the doctrine and guidance from the Jesuit friends
who helped him in his work, and it touches into practice is a reflection of the ideas of the
Neoplatonic writers of Florence. Book Description The true portraits is a collection of them, made
two pencils, they are from King Felipe II to artists who enjoyed popularity then and now are
forgotten: the most natural of others using copies, all interesting and the quality of the people
and for the excellence of the hand, and some very sober and masterly that worked before may
be of Velázquez Pacheco.

There was no shortage, however, in Seville during those years watching a poet who crucified Christ
Pacheco, where the performance was well under the thought, say:

Who put you well Lord so stark and so dry? You tell me that love I say we Pacheco.

In spite of this, the artistic and social merit of the teacher must have such respect their fellow
citizens who became mayor and overseer of the profession of painters, and the Holy Office having
regard to their wisdom and prudence had instructed him to look particularly carefully and visit
the sacred paintings of things that were in public places, giving to this committee, which is required
of law.

Not without reason called the Palomino to the house of Francisco Pacheco art golden prison
because were his friends and at different times due to read or present his or her work many illustrious
men. Fernando de Herrera, Pablo de Céspedes, Mr. Roelas, Martínez Montañez Juan de Malara,
Baltasar del Alcázar, the Carducho, Gongora, Jauregui, Alonso Cano, Quevedo, Rodrigo Caro, author
of the superb elegy to the ruins of Italica, and perhaps Miguel de Cervantes.

The intellectual atmosphere created by such artists and poets, of which some were already dead
and others still living, was the atmosphere that he breathed Diego Velázquez, who almost child Herrera
came to power, grim and scolding, original and uncompromising, he drew with canes burned and painted
with large brushes, and went to school a good man, peaceful, imitator of the Italians, whose
dwelling had to be prevailed academy where classical taste, the fruit of the neatest illustration,
but the classical order of reflection.

Here begins to emerge Velazquez's genius, because even people who live surrounded by by education
and a tendency, especially by the currents of the time, were keen
all spiritualism, although there ruled in doctrine and practice of
art, devotion the former Spanish and the Italian Renaissance, far
from bowing he easily the opinions of others began to work, keeping
only what Nature put before his eyes, stubbornly clinging to master
the form, realizing that things apparently lower, mean and rude are
pregnant beauty for those who can study them.

      While his teacher wrote
    that the painting is commendable
    because it can serve the glory
    of religion and the promotion of piety, the most celebrated painters
competed in the representation of appearances miracles and wonders,
inspired by faith, he did studies on animals, birds, fish and still
lifes in perfect imitation of nature.

Pacheco refers you saying that when he was boy, "had bribed a aldeanillo, trainee model that served
in various operations and postures, and weeping, and laughing without any difficulty.
 After a late dinner, we usually had concerts, balls, and private theatricals.

On the day following my arrival, Ushas explained to me the relationship in which we were to
stand towards each other.  She said that marriage was an institution as yet unknown to them,
because their organisms had not yet attained the conditions to which they were struggling.
They had progressed so far, however, that they had discovered the secret of eternal youth.
Indeed, Ushas herself was 590 years old.  I was not surprised at this, as something of the
same kind has occurred more than once to rishis or very advanced mahatmas.  As a rule, however,
they are too anxious to go to nirvana, to stay on earth a moment longer than necessary, and
prefer rather to come back at intervals: this, we all know, has occurred at least six times
in the case of Buddha, as Mr Sinnett so well explains.  At the same time Ushas announced without
words, but with a slight blush, and a smile of ineffable tenderness, that from the day of my
birth she knew that I was destined to be her future husband, and that at the appointed time
we should be brought together.  We now had our period of probation to go through together,
and she told me that all the other chelas here were going through the necessary training preparatory
to wedlock like myself, and that there would be a general marrying all round, when the long-expected
culminating epoch should arrive.

Meantime, in order to enter upon the first stage of my new chela-ship, it became necessary
for me to forget all the experiences which I had acquired during the last twenty years of my
life, as she explained that it would be impossible for my mind to receive the new truths which
I had now to learn so long as I clung to what she called "the fantasies" of my mahatma-ship.
I cannot describe the pang which this announcement produced.  Still I felt that nothing must
impede my search after truth; and I could not conceal from myself that, if in winning it I
also won Ushas, I was not to be pitied.  Nor to this day have I ever had reason to regret the
determination at which I then arrived.

It would be impossible for me in the compass of this article to describe all my experiences
in the new life to which I dedicated myself, nor indeed would it be proper to do so; suffice
it to say, that I progressed beyond my Ushas' most sanguine expectations.  And here I would
remark, that I found my chief stimulus to exertion to be one which had been completely wanting
in my former experience.  It consisted simply in this, that altruism had been substituted for
egotism.  Formerly, I made the most herculean spiritual effort to tide myself over the great
period of danger--the middle of the fifth round.  "That," as Mr Sinnett correctly says, "is
the stupendous achievement of the adept as regards his own personal interests;" and of course
our own interests were all that I or any of the other mahatmas ever thought of.  "He has reached,"
pursues our author, "the farther shore of the sea in which so many of mankind will perish.
He waits there, in a contentment which people cannot even realise without some glimmering of
spirituality--the sixth sense--themselves, for the arrival of his future companions."  This
is perfectly true.  I always found that the full enjoyment of this sixth sense among mahatmas
was heightened just in proportion to the numbers of other people who perish, so long as you
were safe yourself.

Here among the Sisters, on the other hand, the principle which was inculcated was, "Never mind
if you perish yourself, so long as you can save others;" and indeed the whole effort was to
elaborate such a system by means of the concentration of spiritual forces upon earth, as should
be powerful enough to redeem it from its present dislocated and unhappy condition. 

Working hard to believe that in a painting by Velazquez and as admirable as it is daring to
introduce changes or amendments, and less Mazo another painter, but keep in mind that in that time,
which could send were obeyed more easily than now, especially if it was artist who had to obey.
Finally, in the first catalog that was made today Museo del Prado is called, is included the
box with no. 149 and said this: Velázquez. Portrait of the Infanta Maria Margarita of Austria, daughter
of Philip IV, scene depicted frank and free brush and the first time [78]. In 1858, appeared
under the no. 198, and as portrait of the Infanta Dona Maria of Austria, daughter of Philip
IV, without saying whether it was Margarita or Dona Teresa.

Whatever, something that matters little, since it is not lady whom Spain or mankind the least glory
be, the picture is a marvel of color and execution. The attire of the girl who has nothing
nice, is composed of large stores-infant, and close bra pink, silver lama gallons of mercury placed
diagonally in the bottom half the skirt, sleeves flying afolladas gauze and red ribbons. Her
hair, which is very fair, party, with a side parting, many jewels, and, after the fashion of the
time, a thick cord gold trimmings on the right arm starts and ends at the left side. In right
hand has a huge canvas on the left points and a rose. The rich drapery crimson background serves
him just give the whole aspect of luxury unusual and inappropriate a jovencilla. It's homely face,
the weakness of the body which can be seen under strong gossip and quirky form of hair and costume,
the portrait should be irritating to the eye: the little woman so overloaded with chervil perjeñada
and there is some great and monstrous, but Velazquez has there hands full discharge such charms
of color, a rich variety of reds, ranging from the more intense the pink lipstick more subdued,
has become so gauzy tulle and shining the metal, which is so air can flow, as strong as it must
weigh that the often ridiculous disproportion between breast and bulging of the skirt, everything
that comes as battered by the imperfection of the model and extravagance of the clothes, obscured
by the splendor of nuances that delights the eye and gorgeous, loose and easy implementation
of that incomprehensible and mysterious, just steps gives the painting a complete look of the real.

Married
Philip IV in 1649 with Dona Mariana of Austria, much younger than he and his niece, born in 1657
Prince Felipe Prospero, who, having apparently two years, portrayed Velázquez. He put up with
bright red suit trimmed with silver, smooth flange, chiffon sleeves
and apron white, which stand about waist pending a bell cords and
other two toys.

Has left hand fall naturally over the body and the right hand put on a crimson velvet chair,
whose seat is up a little dog lying stained white wool that support the nose on one arm of the furniture
looks with extraordinary vividness. The poor Prince, son late father and mother spent girl shows
and in the low coloration of the face and the weakness of the body that was to come to stick
crown. The face and hands are made with exceptional finesse, studied so far, contrasting delicate
inks and pale red with different clothes, the couch and the curtains background. The essential,
characteristic of the individual is thoroughly completed, and all the rest run with this fast,
loose and easy on the eye and the hand have synthesized much and with such confidence of success,
there seems to be working there anymore the need to give the impression of things. This portrait,
which is one of the boxes Velázquez best preserved and critics whose praise are satisfied, is preserved
in the Imperial Museum of Vienna [79].

De los Reyes of the Middle Ages inherited a nasty habit of modern living amid buffoons who tolerate
the freedoms that illustrious politicians did not consent or general Winners: No it was this
vile own genuinely Spanish monarchs, but, at it seems, imported by those who came from outside.
Around the breed sad abounded Austrias of hunchbacks, dwarves, bowlegged, and almost crazy fools,
who are commonly called vermin Palace.

Perhaps the company would find this ridiculous result of hereditary melancholy which made
the son of Juana la Loca retire to Yuste, be confined in a cell Felipe II El Escorial and die
terrified Felipe III. The custom began in the reign of Charles I, so widespread, that not only
were real clowns in the halls, but also in houses of the nobles. The great Antonio Moro masterfully
portrayed one called Perejón that were the Counts of Benavente, and the Museo del Prado will see full
length and size natural, adorned with luxury and French playing cards in his hand [80].

The reign of Felipe IV are preserved papers citing maintained many of those phenomena comfortably
and gift they wanted for themselves and great men who went hungry and contempt.

In consultation with the King made in 1637 on the dresses of worship that were given to certain
servers palace, after proposing to fix the cost of the costumes of
the apparatus, uncle who kept the hounds, the musicians, barbers and
Diego Velázquez! appointing several buffoons and men of pleasure therein,
and a Pablo de Valladolid who then called Pablillo and does not look
like a clown, others surely were: Gourds, protruding, Don Juan de
Austria, Christopher the blind, the English Dwarf Don Antonio who
is paid a schoolmaster, and Nicolas Bautista Panela and chess should
be very destrozones and lost, then by proposing to give them clothing
shows the appropriateness to force them to put you to not walk as
far, which suggests that they were a very big pig.

It is understood that Velasquez, a joke or for study, portray a couple of them, as it had in the Primo
Fraga, who is also on that relationship: but when he painted so many it's no nonsense to suppose
that he would order the King.

For at least you liked it and ordered placed in a hall room Kingdoms Retiro palace, near the door
you came out to take the cars.

Not all of these pictures are from the same period: the fool of Coria, the child of Vallecas,
Don Sebastian Primo de Morra and belong to the mowing style: Dwarf Don Antonio and Don Juan English
of Austria to last.

Hardly be found in the story as eloquent proof that so dignified art plays, and even with the
ugliness bordering on the disgusting, pleasant impressions because, as this series of doodles
negligible immortalized by the genius of a man.

The Primo, with its large hat and black terry suit, leafing through a folio: Morra, rather
than sitting, lying on the ground at once, showing her green tights and red tabard, the fool
Coria, with his severe black suit as a serious person, the child
of Vallecas, almost all green and half torn, Don Antonio English,
with brocade doublet and plumed hat, and Don Juan de Austria, with
military trappings, they form a motley and strange company, to reviews
which joking and laughing, as they lived, but thinking makes an impression
deeper than many shows serious.

In the heads of those unfortunate is where you can study better far
did he Velázquez in the study of expression: the first is serious
and thoughtful, almost elegant, Morra has a face of evil, the fool
of Coria's kind of sad idiot, the child of Vallecas stupidly cheerful
Antonio English, supported in that magnificent mastiff nicer than
him, like a cartoon Pride, Don Juan de Austria, before the palace
jester has escaped rogue trace chapters of Guzman Alfarache or jácaras
de Quevedo.

And you can not say which are better painted, because if the last period are a wonder to one
who knows technique, amazed by the previous life on their bodies, ready to move, and on their faces
where gestures or faces after a comic insurmountable sadness seems
that bubbles unnamed must leave the belief in the soul's own shame.

Every fan of Spanish painting, have their favorite pieces in the whole of the works Velazquez: I,
recognizing the increased importance of the great combinations like the Spinners and Las Meninas,
I confess I am particularly fond of that gang of clowns, sad Pictures do not seem independent,
but figures from the same box, same players drama that have broken their will to think for
themselves, but they could meet want.

Velázquez always played beautifully real world, even as intangible and subtle, because it gave the
illusion of the air we breathe, but where he managed to paint life with greater power of expression
was in the minds of men that flock frustrated certainly not made in the likeness of God, that
makes you want to mourn after making her laugh. The king, who boasted of letters, did not send him to
portray the poets who gave glory to reign, or Montalban, and Salas Barbadillo, and Velez de Guevara,
or Red, or Moreto or Tirso, or Calderon or Lope, but their jesters, and not fantasize need
to believe the painted with some sweet sympathy, were his companions, together included in payroll
Palace.

The old inventory of the Alcazar and biographers speak of other portraits
Velázquez jesters unaccounted for: that of Calabacillas quote, which
is perhaps the appointed day Coria as the simpleton, as they remembered
before it two pumpkins on the ground, that of Cardenas, the toreador,
and the Velasquillo: Finally, Ponz, in listing the paintings in the
time existed in the palace of Retiro, mentions "a buffoon with a grinder
fun paper and then some, that appeal to Velázquez "[81].

Finally, Stirling, says that Captain Widdrington, author of Spain and the Spanish in 1843, says
in this work have seen the picture of a naked dwarf represented as Bacchante. 'THE CORONATION OF THE
VIRGIN. "

Velazquez had never taken very seriously mythology: as a boy in the house of Pacheco, where they
were to be read and discussed poetic compositions appropriate to the tastes of the time, loves
and adventures of heroes and gods, animals and fish he painted, when he went to Italy and breathed
in that atmosphere, essentially pagan, brought the Forge of Vulcan, where the last years of his life
decorating the king ordered a stay of the Palace, which makes pictures depicts the characters of
the story as mere mortals. For the hall of mirrors Alcazar painted Venus and Adonis, Psyche
and Cupid, Apollo skinning a satyr and Mercury and Argos, of which only the latter was saved from
the fire of 1734.

The composition of Mercury and Argos [82] is very original, appropriate
for the site which was to hold on a door coupled with the Apollo skinning
a satyr: the drawing of precision Unbreakable: the implementation
is a demonstration of what he knew to do.

Inks, very dilute just covering the surface stain, the strokes, and are marked while creating
shape and color, and setting terms vanish, shadows and distances much they look at that canvas,
no way to tell exactly how this painting, and yet eyes can not hope for more truth. Mercury
and Argos that have the heroic character grandiose poetic nature and should instill superhuman
has not been carefully artist in the least: on the contrary, seems to have made an effort to
shrink, not only the status of mere mortals, but low and ordinary men, the guardian of Golden
Fleece, has traces and own position has stayed in the most uncouth villager, the messenger of
the gods is to steal without gallantry, as a vulgar rateruelo. It's a way own personal, unique,
to understand and interpret the mythology, where there is analogous
to sarcasm and mockery, which may occur to an artist to express ridicule
pagan an episode sacred to Christianity.

Both the disposition of the matter as for its interpretation and technique, is a picture that can
never satisfy the majority of the public: the day that everyone understands, no vulgar, but
instead the painters always considered as the most complete results you can get in the practice
of his art.

Velazquez did not try with more courtesy and respect for the furious
Mars [83], who represented sitting, naked, resting left elbow on your
thigh and chin on the palm hand, while leaving the opposite arm fall
naturally.

Are your clothes a wine-red robe that unfilled fund serves as the bottom, and a blue cloth tied
at the waist and subject through the legs. Shako worn on the head and his feet are a shield and a
sword. It is a soldadote of those who, when they needed to pay, became capeadores in cities or
bandits in the field. The face is vulgar, perverse eyes, the muscles stout, but nothing in his
person or online feature that reveals superhuman character, even heroic.

Some biographers believe Velazquez, The Rokeby Venus, is the same box and Psyche Cupid was
known for the Hall of Mirrors: others say it's a different work. As no one disagrees, it is
in regard to authenticity, in the sure conviction that this superb painting is Velazquez's
hand. It is unknown whether the event was in the Alcazar not be the same Psyche and Cupid. Last
century, the house was owned by Duke of Alba, where was Ponz, [84] belonged then Godoy whose
heirs sold it and is now Best of the famous jewel Morritt Collection. To say that there remains
another naked woman painted by Velázquez, being the only known this idea because of its importance.
Unfortunately not return to Spain, because as rightly says a French writer, "every object art
imported into the islands, never goes away, is condemned to life
imprisonment; not return to the circulation until you get to ignore
that it exists.

"In the vast exhibition UK art treasures held in Manchester, the prudish British, placed table
so high that almost was not possible to examine.

The figure is of natural size.

Venus is lying on her back completely naked on a bed, leaning his head on the right arm, whose
hand is hidden in the hair: no see her face, neck, shoulders, dorsal body, hips, knees and
legs form an undulating line of slim to none. The entire package body, fleshy soft, highlighted
by gray cloth clear about establishing separation between the white canvas meat bed and painted
all light. Second and left standing out against a red curtain, a cherub holding an ebony-framed
mirror, which reflects the face of the goddess.


El.  That he may easily be, considering he is a Conservative.  Oh, mamma! how can you suppose
that I would ever marry a Conservative?

Lady G.  I have no patience with you, Elaine; a nice mess your Radicals have made of it with
Egypt and Ireland.  But we won't go into that now; only remember this, if he proposes, and
you don't accept him, your father and I will be seriously displeased.

El. [sighing].  I'm sure the gentleman opposite is a friend of the people.  See! he's reading
the 'Pall Mall.'  [Aside to Adolphus.] Mamma has just been telling me that she sees such a
strange likeness between you and your opposite neighbour.

Ad.  Ah! Goethe owes more, however, with their own feelings
and thinking, enlightened, since his trip to Italy, by the intelligent and earnest contemplation
of the artistic treasures and privileged in that beautiful country
is preserved.

Goethe, who at first had been romantic, like the romance was then understood in their nation,
and as shown by his two major works written before going to Italy, Werther and Berlichingen
Goetz returned from there completely classical, but classic their way, and not with the sensuality
of French classicism.

Its classicism is a term midway between the fashionable in France, and the new German romanticism,
while more informed high ideas that do not compromise, but synthesis.

Goethe does not want mere imitation, nor pure fantasy and freedom, but both powers linked, each
of which exercises born one way, while the union of two appropriate style. By imitating himself,
called imitator, who invented without imitating, ghost. The true artist and poet, are those who invent
imitation. The characteristic, which should enter any work of art, gives the imitation is like
the skeleton, the frame or canvas of the work, and life, muscles, blood, color, embroidery, then
come by fantasy.

The combination of these things is born beauty. Meticulous artist, cartoonist and mean dry is
one that mimics only: report author sketches the only fantasize:
perfection lies in fantasizing and copy at a time.

In the beauty of nature is diffuse and mixed germ, is also itching, as desire to be increasingly
clean and completely.

It must remove the artist, choosing the best and ugly aside, but even given this extracting
operation, the beauty is not created, but it embodies and individually in a sensitive way.
The aspiration of the artist and poet's ideal, but ideal individual
must be the same time.

The purpose of art is to represent all in one, and express the infinite in finite form.

Goethe rejected, under this doctrine, the doctrine, the division, then as in fashion of Christian
and pagan art. For him there is more than an art, whose fund, whose substance for infinite and
sublime I would assume, must enter and comply with number and extent and accuracy and precision
within a limited and individual.
Imitation looking through the things the main idea, the original
idea, which they impurely done, and art should be the most pure. In
this sense artistically superior to nature. It is also because of
the artistic moves away everything irrelevant and insignificant in
nature is mixed. Moreover, for Goethe Art has its own end: the creation
of beauty. It is true that in this creation is implied an end, moral
and social, very useful and beneficial, what Aristotle called purification
of passion: what Goethe called the rescue, redemption or freedom.  I was surprised, because I had
hoped to find in you an intelligent companion; and mortified at the discovery that you could
not rise to higher ground than that of an ordinary admirer,--men in these days seem to think
that women have no other raison d'etre except to be made love to.

Ad.  I do not think that is a new idea, Lady Elaine; but is it absolutely necessary, in order
that you should return the deep affection I feel for you, that we should agree politically,
philosophically, theologically, and aesthetically? Much of the day was spent sleeping, preparing for the weary watch of the night, I did just
now. Mr. Fidel was ill, and for the Obrería, avoiding expenditure not deprive the elder of his meager
salary, he refrained from asking for a new partner.  I feel instinctively that we are not kindred spirits; that the mysterious
chord of sympathy which vibrates in the heart of a girl with the first tone of the voice of
the man she is destined to love, does not exist between us.  Oh, indeed, indeed, Mr Gresham,
although I adore Frederic Harrison as a thinker, as much as I dislike Mr Mallock--though I
read every word he writes as a duty--I am not destitute of romance.  I am a profound believer
in the doctrine of affinity.  Who that accepts, as I do, the marvellous teaching of Comte,
and remembers that the highest ideas which it contains were inspired by a woman, could fail
to be?  But I shall know the man towards whom I am destined to occupy the relation that Comte's
Countess did to him, at a glance.  No words will need to pass between us to assure us that
we are one in sentiment.  It will be as impossible for him to be indifferent to elevating the
taste of the masses in matters of domestic detail, or be otherwise wanting in a whole-hearted
devotion to the service of humanity, or to scoff at the theory of evolution, as it would be
for him to accept the errors and superstitions of an obsolete theology, or the antiquated dogmas
of the Conservatives about landed property.

Ad.  And if I fulfilled all these conditions, so far as a thorough philosophical and political
sympathy was concerned, would that avail me nothing to produce this hidden affinity?

El.  Absolutely nothing.  In the first place, you could not pretend to believe and feel what
you did not believe and feel; and in the second, if you could, I should instantly sense the
absence of that internal attraction towards each other which would be irresistible in both.
You were right, Mr Gresham, when you said the heart and not the head should be the guide; and
I trust it absolutely--so give up a hope which must be vain.  Believe me, I feel deeply pained
at having to speak so decidedly, but it is better that you should be under no delusion.  Still,
do not let me lose you as a friend whom I shall always esteem. But their languages, Tomasa! What they say about things I love most in the world! This
is what hurts me, what kills me.

He sat down again, closer to the gardener to speak quietly,

- You know my past better than anyone I've told you because you inspire great confidence. Besides,
you are ready, and I guess you do not know. Visitation know what is for me and certainly not
ignore what these wretches say about it. Do not play dumb: the You know, all in the cathedral and
even outside these slanders they hear and believe.

You you're the one that you can not believe them, because you know
the truth ... But alas, I can not quite say it, I can not cry: me
prevent these habits.

And grab a handful of his cassock with clenched fingers, as if to
tear it.

It took a long silence. Don Sebastian looked down with hard eyes, contracting his hands as if to catch
the invisible enemy. Occasionally felt pangs of their illness and sighed painfully.

- Why think about such things? - Said the gardener -. It makes you bad, and this is not was necessary
to bother coming down to me. Best had been staying at the palace.

- No, you distracted me, find some comfort communicating my sorrows. Up there, I despair alone,
having to make efforts to swallow the rage. I do not want them to know my family they would be able
to laugh, do not want you to know anything my poor Visitation ... And I do not know disguise!,
I can not fake joy when I'm angry ...! What the hell I suffer! Unable to say I've been a man,
I've been weak, as I am made of flesh, and I carry the fruits of my fault, not wanting to part
with them even slander after me! Each work as she is, and I want to be good in the midst of my sins.
I could have separated from my children have abandoned them, as others to maintain their reputation
of saints, but I am a man, I am proud of it: a man with his faults and virtues, no more nor less
the generality of humans. The feeling of parenthood is so ingrained in me, so deep, you lose
before the miter to leave my children. And remember how I got when Juanito's father died, was
going through my nephew. I thought he died. A beautiful big man and a future so bright! I
had made judge, Chief Justice minister I do not know! And in twenty-four hours I die, as if
heaven would punish me.

True I have left my grandchild, but that Juanito in no way resembles his father, and I confess:
I I bit, I do not see it but a distant reflection of my poor child. In my past, that time that
was the happiest of my life, I can only Visitation. A portrait of the poor dead, I love it!
And that this petty rabble me that the mob with their slander ... There to kill them!

Dominated by the fond memories of the spring which had flourished in its early years bishop in a diocese
there Andalusian Tomasa repeated once more, his relations with certain devout lady felt since
childhood horror to the world. Devotion had gathered, but life does not soon recover its rights,
breaking through in their relationship almost mystical uniting them in carnal embrace. They
had lived faithful to each other in the mystery of church life, loving wisely scrupulous, without
the secret of their relationship transcended the public, until she
died, leaving two children.

Don Sebastian, a man of strong passions, I felt parenthood to the vehemence. Those two things
were the image of the poor dead, the I remember the one romance of a life entirely devoted to
ambition. Calumnies circulating enemies, rooted in the presence of his daughter in the archbishop's
palace, he put like crazy.

- The think my dear! - Said in a tone angry -.

My poor Visitation, so good, so affectionate, so tame for all converted into any one of these
wretches! A lover I've taken my fun for the College of noble maidens ...! As if I, old and
sick, was to think about that crap! Indecent ...!, miserable ...! For less committed many crimes
...!

- Let them say, God is high and sees us all.

- I know, but this is not enough to reassure me. You have children, Tomasa, and you know what
love them. Not only hurts us what you do against them, but what you say ... Which days I've
been suffering! As a child you know that my dream was to become what I am. Looking the throne of the
chorus and thought how good it would be him in the immense joy of being Prince of the Church.
Well, I'm on the throne. I walked half a century away stones, leaving the skin and even the meat
in the bushes of the hill. I know how I black mass exit and get to Bishop! Then ... Archbishop
am already!, And I am a cardinal!, I can not get more! So what? Happiness
always march ahead of us, as bright cloud guided the Israelites.

We see, almost touch, but not get caught.

I now feel more unhappy than at the time struggling to be something and I thought the most
unfortunate men. I have no youth: the height where I am, look at me all the looks, prevents me
defend myself. Oh, Thomas! Pity me, I'm pitiful. Being a parent, and having conceal a crime!
Wanting my daughter with a love that grows more and more as death approaches, and having to suffer
people to take this love so pure for something disgusting ...!

And the dreadful sight of Sebastian, which frightened the whole diocese, hazy with tears.

- Also, I have other pains - continued - but are farsighted man who fears the future. When I die,
all I have is for my daughter. Juanito has about his mother, who was rich, and has a career and
support my friends. Visitation will be powerful. You know that, my adversaries reproach me what
they call my greed. Greedy, no: proactive, welfare lover of mine. I saved a lot, I'm not handing
out the bread at the door of his palace, nor seek celebrity for charity. I have pastures in Extremadura,
many vineyards in La Mancha, houses, and especially the role of the state, a lot of paper. As
good Spanish I want to help the government with my money, especially
as this produces a profit.

I do not know certainly what I have: will be twenty million reais, maybe more. All saved for
me increased with good business.

I can not complain of fate, the Lord has helped me. And all Visitation for my poor! My joy
would see her married to a good man, but she does not want leave me. You like the church, and this
is my fear. Do not be surprised, Tomasa, I, Prince of the Church, I shudder to see how it comes
to devotion, and do all I can to deflect it. I like the religious woman, devoted not only found
it in the church. Women must live, must enjoy and be a mother. I've always looked bad to the
nuns.

- Leave it, sir - said the gardener -. No wonder you like the church. Mode as live, can not have
other hobbies.

- For today, I fear no evil. I am at your side, and I care not who likes dealing with nuns. But
I can die tomorrow, and just imagine how great the poor bite will visit with his millions, alone,
and with this love of religious life which others can exploit ready
...!

I seen a lot, I'm in class and I'm in the secret. There is no shortage religious orders engaged
hunting for inheritance, for the greater glory of God, they say. In addition, those out there
foreign nuns of great coif, who are lynxes for this kind of work.

It terrifies me thinking about my daughter falling. I'm from the old Catholicism, of that religion
net Spanish: Castilian Catholicism, as they say in panllevar, clean Aliens modern. It would be
sad to have spent my life saving, to fatten the Jesuits or those sisters who can not speak
in Castilian.

I want my money not suffer the same fate The sexton of the adagio. Therefore, the troubles of
my fight with the enemy mob joins the pain it causes the weak character
of my daughter.

Perhaps the hunt, and a rascal is fun of me taking over my money.

And excited by his dark thoughts, gave a pure and obscene interjection, I remember of his time
as a soldier. In the presence of the gardener, had no reason to hold back. The old was used to the
outbursts of his character.

- Let's see - he said desperately, after a long silence -. You know me better nobody: I'm as
bad as supposed enemies? Do I deserve that God will punish me for my faults? You are a good soul,
simple and good, and you know more about this with your instinct all doctors in Theology.

- Do you mean, Mr. Sebastian? Jesus ...! You are a man like any other, neither more nor less. Perhaps
better than most, it is simple, all in one piece, without deception
or hypocrisy.

- A man: You have said.

I am a man like everyone else. We reach a certain height we are like saints in the church facades.
Below, are admired for their beauty, viewed closely, a horror by the ugliness of the stone gnawed
by time. As much as we try to sanctify us, putting us at a distance, we are but men weak flesh
beings to those around us. In the church are few and those get rid of human passions. And who
knows if even those few do not feel privileged bitten by the demon of vanity, and the extreme
asceticism of his life, they think seen the glory of the altars ...! The priest who manages to
dominate the meat falls into greed, which is the ecclesiastic service excellence. I've never
treasured by service, I have saved for mine, never for me.

The prelate was silent a long time, but in his irresistible desire to confess to the simple
woman continued

- I'm sure God will not despise me when my time comes.

His infinite mercy is above all the littleness of life. What is my
crime?

Having loved a woman as my father loved my mother, have children, as were apostles and saints.
So what? The ecclesiastical celibacy is an invention of men, a detail of agreed discipline councils,
but the flesh and their demands are many centuries earlier, dating from Paradise. Whoever breaks
this barrier, not vice, but irresistible passion, because it can not overcome the impulse to
create a family and have a companion, that certainly needed to Church law, but disobeys God ....
Approaching death, I have fear. Many nights doubt and tremble like a child .... I have served
God in my way. At other times he had defended with the sword, fighting heretics, now I'm your priest,
and He battled every time I see the wickedness of the times curtail
some of its glory.

The Lord forgive me, receiving me in his bosom.

You who are so good, Tomasa, and you have a soul of an angel under your bark rough, do not you
think so ...?

The gardener smiled, and his words pierced the silence slowly dying
afternoon.

- Calm down, Mr. Sebastian.

I have seen many saints in this house worth less than you. To ensure their salvation had abandoned
the children. To maintain what they call the purity of the soul would have denied the family.
Believe you me, come here not saints; men, all men. No regret having followed the impulse of the
heart. God made us in His image and likeness, and gave us some sense of the family. Moreover,
chastity, celibacy and other trifles, which you invented to distinguish from ordinary people.
Whether you are a man, Don Sebastian, the more it is, will be more
good and better will welcome the Lord in his glory.

IX

Corpus few days after a morning Don Antolin was in search of Gabriel. Silver Stick Luna smiled, talking
with a patronizing air.

He had thought about him all night. It hurt him inactive, walking in the cloister. Lack occupation
was what inspired those ideas as evil.

- Let's see - he said -: "I should be down with me every evening at the Cathedral to teach Treasury
and other treasures?

Many foreigners come to understand only if left when asked. You know its language, know the
French, I do not know how many languages more, according to your brother. The cathedral may prove
to win a lot of these foreign having an interpreter available, you'd do us a favor and do not lose
anything. Always is entertainment to see new faces. As a reward ....

Don Antolin stop there, scratching his head under the bonnet. Would be to scratch something of
funds Obrería, if it was not possible at first, being weak and drained income of the Primacy,
as would be provided later. And waited with anxious eyes the answer Gabriel. He showed himself satisfied.
At the end was a guest of the cathedral, and something should. And since that afternoon down
to the temple choir when to teach foreign riches of the church.

Never missing passengers, displaying color confetti Don Antolin, expected Time to admire the
jewelry. Silver Stick not seen a foreigner who does not imagine I was a lord or a duke, wondering
many times their clumsiness in dress. For him, only the great of the earth could afford the pleasure
of traveling, and opened some eyes shocked and incredulous when Gabriel said that many of these
people were shoemakers in London or Paris shopkeepers were given
in the holiday gift of a trip by former country of the Moors.

The ships moved through five canons to surplices chorus, each with
a key hand.

They were the guardians of the Treasury. Opened every lock in their custody, heavily spun and
left the door open the chapel with its ancient treasures. In large displays, like a museum,
displaying the old opulence of the cathedral silver images massive, huge balloons topped by graceful
figurines, all of precious metal; chests complicated task ivory, gold and virile custody; huge
golden plates and embossed, mythological scenes came back to life the joy of paganism in that
sordid spot dusty Christian church. Gemstones extended their range of colors pectoral turbans
and robes of the Virgin. Diamonds were so huge that cast doubt on its authenticity, pebble-sized
emeralds, amethysts, topaz and pearls, many pearls, hundreds, thousands,
dropping like hail on the garments of the Virgin, The strangers were
astonished before this opulence, dazzled by its sheer size, while
Gabriel, accustomed to visiting Daily, I looked around coldly.

The Treasury had an air of sad disrepair. Riches had aged with the cathedral. The shining
diamonds, gold seemed tarnished and dusty, The blackened silver, pearls were dull and dead.
The smoke from the candles and stale atmosphere of the temple had
skated all sadly.

"The Church - was said Gabriel - ages it touches. The wealth lost the sparkle in her hands,
as jewels that fall into the hands of usurers.

The diamond is blurred within the big greedy, the most beautiful picture turns black on their
altars. "

After the visit to the Treasury came Ochavo display, the octagonal
chapel of marbles dark pantheon of relics where most disgusting human
remains, the skulls horrible laughter, arms, and vertebrae decayed
mummies were displayed in silver vessels and gold.

The piety of other ages, credulous and rude, seemed so absurd when viewed in full century of
disbelief, that the same Don Antolin, so intransigent talking about the glories its cathedral,
the voice and hurried down the ratio to mark the holy mantle piece Leocadia when it "appeared"
to the Archbishop of Toledo, realizing how difficult it was to explain what fabric is wearing the
apparitions.

Gabriel faithfully translated explanation of Silver Stick, stressing many times ironical gravity,
while the canons who were escorting the convoy of foreigners alejábanse vaguely steps to avoid
questions.
A phlegmatic English interpreter interrupted one day:

- What you
do not have any feather wings of St. Michael?

- No, sir, and shame
- Luna replied with equal seriousness -. But you find it another cathedral.
We can not have it all.

In the Chapter House, a mixture of Moorish
and gothic architecture, visitors admired the double Toledo archbishops
row painted on the wall with miters and golden staffs. Gabriel called
Don Cerebruno attention, the medieval prelate, named for its huge
head. But The wardrobe was so great astonishment produced on outsiders.

It
was a great piece with shelves and cupboards of old wood. Above those,
the walls were covered with large dusty and broken tables, copies
of Flemish painting that the council had been relegated to one corner.
On the shelves were lined with old chairs of the house: one Spanish,
austere, straight lines, with frayed rapacejos; other Greek form,
with curved legs and ivory inlays. Layers, and vestments are piled
on the shelves for classification of tones, with the cape out of the
heap for they could admire the wonders of embroidery. A world of living
with figurines color strength in a few inches of fabric. The amazing
art of ancient embroidery gave the appearance of life silk painting.
The hood and strips of a layer enough to play all scenes of Biblical
creation or the Passion of Jesus.
I am not sorry under the circumstances that it should have been murdered, for it was a poor
exotic.  Let us not attempt to analyse the mysterious nature of that passion which is too precious
a plant to tear up by the roots in order to discover the origin of its existence, but learn
rather from this lesson, so painful to us both, that there are more things in heaven and earth
than are dreamt of even in the philosophy of Comte, the doctrines of the aesthete, or the politics
of Mr Gladstone.  And now, Elaine, farewell,--this time you need not fear my coming back from
Naples. [Moves towards the door and lingers.]

[Elaine puts her face between her hands and sobs convulsively.

Ad.  Elaine, dear Elaine [returns softly and takes her hand], do you wish me to go?

[Elaine shakes her head.

Ad.  Do you wish me to stay?

[Elaine shakes her head.

Ad.  What do you wish me to do?  I must do either one or the other. Shall I stay and go alternately,
or shall we make a fresh start, without prejudice, as the lawyers say?

El.  Oh, how heartlessly you talk!  What do I care what the lawyers say?  Can't you see how
miserable I am, and how hollow everything seems all at once?  I don't believe in any one, and
I don't feel as if I knew anything, except that love is an inexplicable phenomenon of matter.
I shall become an agnostic.

Re-enter Lord and Lady Gules.

Lord G.  Well, have you two young people come to an understanding?  Take my word for it, Elaine,
an ounce of practice is worth a pound of theory in love-affairs, and be thankful if the man
is willing to become your husband, who has had sufficient common-sense to teach you the lesson.
Holloa! whom have we here?

Enter Charles with cards.

Lord G. [reads].  "Dr and Mrs Plumper and Mr Flamm, to inquire for Lady Elaine Bendore."  Oho!
our friend Plumper seems to know the difference between theory and practice at any rate, and
is evidently anxious to extend the latter.  [To Charles.]  Show them up.

Ad.  I called upon the Plumpers this morning, and explained the whole affair to the entire
satisfaction of the worthy couple.

[Adolphus and Lady Elaine whisper apart.

Lord G.  I have to thank you, Dr Plumper, for the timely assistance you rendered my daughter--first,
in nearly sending her into a fit, and then in bringing her out of it; and am glad of this opportunity
of expressing my sense of the obligation I am under to Mrs Plumper and Mr Flamm.

Dr P.  Oh, don't mention it, my lord; I am sure I was only too gug-gug- glad to be of any assistance
to Mr Gresham by being so like him as to frighten the young lady into a fif-fif-fit.  And as
for bringing her to--I always take the sal-volatile in my pup-pup-pup-pocket on Mrs Plumper's
account.

Ad. 

Velazquez made the box, dead Espinola, who became bitter ingratitude; And now I paint for pleasure
or inspiration of others, compensated for the injustice to the winner of flamingos. For your
noble countenance had to fend unknown portrait, perhaps of one would do him before the trip
they undertook together in spite of this, this head not only does not detract from which they
are undoubtedly made to the model, but a of those with more life.


PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS.

