"Upon this assurance, I ordered him to repair to the tailor's, which he did, and was not long
in returning and bringing with him a pair of fashionables suited to the times. 'Great country,'
said he, holding them before me and shaking his black sides with laughter. Into them I slid
myself; the bottoms only reached a little below my knees. The negro, with eyes like astonished
stars, set upon the straps, and such a tugging and pulling as there allowed! I began to think
I was being pulled in two, (after the fashion of Mister Pierce's promises and performances),
when Cato, (such was the negro's name), his face almost white with exertion, begged I would
not be alarmed--that he would very soon get them all right! In another minute something went--pop!
Simultaneously with the report was my head driven clean through the pine-board ceiling into
a chamber unfortunately occupied by a lean old maid of some forty-seven summers. 'Good mornin,
missus,' I said, trying to make a bow; 'hope I ain't intruding.' The old lady looked mighty
streaked, and wouldn't be pacified, until I told her I was merely giving a few feats, just
to illustrate the principles of the 'Young American' party. It's only Young America, ma'am,
he's cutting the three figures of his sentiments, as made known by his particular stars,--Soule,
Saunders, and Sickles. Didn't intend to disturb you, my good woman,' says I. I wanted to seem
polite--to put the very best foot forward; but it was to no earthly use. The old critter screamed,
jumped out of the bed, and like a ghost shaking his cotton to the storm, ran away in dismay.

"'Good Christopher Columbus!' exclaimed the negro, almost bursting with fright. With this he
commenced pulling and jerking at my legs, until, finding his efforts useless, he hastened down
stairs and spread the alarm. Major Smooth was in an alarming situation!--'most dying!--would
breathe his last!--warn't no help fo'h him!--must die, sartin!! Such a ringing and dinging
of bells, such a tampering up stairs, such a puffing and blowing of excited citizens as followed,
never was heard or seen before. Although in a tight place, I was neither alarmed nor crest
fallen. Indeed, I thought I'd enjoin the old lady on the other side to enter upon the discussion
of a political question, just by way of keeping up the characteristic sociability of the nation.
Presently about a dozen dangerously excited faces presented themselves in the room. 'He's gone,
certain,' says one; 'Major Smooth's a cold chicken,' mutters another; 'Young America's cutting
a figure,' rejoins a third; 'he's only at rest while performing some overt act,' interposes
a fourth. 'Much you know about it!' says I, cool as Labrador: 'I merely put my head through
this ere place for the purpose of being friendly with this lone female lodger--pull me out!'
In right good earnest they seized me by the boots, saying:--'Let us bring Young America into
a respectable position;' and with the most unmerciful jerks they laid me measuring the floor.
In no wise disconcerted, I picked myself up, and inquired if they had another strap to loan
me. With the exception of Cato, the negro, they all enjoyed a good laugh; he had no sooner
relieved me, than he commenced raising a fuss about my damaging the ceiling--never for once
taking Mr. Smooth's head into consideration. Young America, he said, was always too fast--always
getting into trouble and calling upon others to help him out.

"'Good morning, Mr. Smooth!' saluted the fat man behind the mahogany, as I entered the office,
having escaped from my perilous position in the seventh story. In addition, he took a lunar
observation all along down my hull, which he said was a mighty tough sort of craft, and had
received no damage for which the house could be held responsible.

"As if to make the picture more complete, a number of anxious-looking individuals (all firm
friends of Uncle Sam) crowded about me, each putting some curious question in reference to
my expectations and the Executive and his gifts. Many of these important gentry had proboscises
largely developed and very red; indeed, the reddest nose was strongest evidence of the best
office-seeker; albeit, some waggishly inclined gentleman had said that the most generously
red-nosed man always esteemed his deserts to be no less than that of United States Minister
at some very fashionable foreign Court, where the good red of a well-developed nose was significant
of pure blood. 'Well now, gents,' I returned, 'you needn't be trying to poke your political
fun at this citizen! Young America is all right yet. Put me on the track of Mr. Pierce's whereabouts.'
Seeing they were facetiously inclined, I summoned that independence so necessary to a citizen
of standing. At this moment, one more politely inclined than the rest, stepped forward, and
commenced giving me the ins and outs of the way to see the Brigadier, who, lie said, was surrounded
by many fairweather courtiers. Stepping politely to the door, he, with grace not unbecoming,
raised a well-gloved hand, and half whispered:--Mr. Smooth will walk into the avenue--keep
on the West side--join the throng (they are all officials in embryo)--be sure and look as serious
as they do; and with them you will arrive at the 'White House' to take your place and chance.'
Oh! chance! 'There is no missing the way, Mr. Smooth; get behind some well-dressed citizen--one
who looks as if he were in pursuit of something the means of securing which he had made sure.
Follow that man!' I thanked him for his civility,--he seemed one of Uncle Sam's bone-breakers,
and sallied out under the happy contemplation that a gentleman from Cape Cod was on a par with
the same species of mankind from South Carolina. It was true that with what little aristocracy
we boasted--and in that little there was truly a great blessing, inasmuch as it illustrated
the fact of there being one spot on this earth where common sense had got the better of refined
sense--was founded in the possession of 'niggers,' the number giving rank in the scale. In
the small but very aristocratic atmosphere of democratic South Carolina it had been proposed
to establish an order of the American garter, the means entitling to membership being the possession
of a very large number of fat negroes and negresses: and to ingratiate the august order it
was proposed to make Colonel Wade Hampton first knight, and Lady Tyler first knightess. The
reader, Mr. Smooth feels assured, will pardon this little digression, which he will set down
to my love for that darling little State.

"I soon muddled my way along with the crowd, among which there were very long faces, very short
faces, and faces from which nothing could be extracted--the comic faces always kept behind!
As a matter of policy I got behind the man who had the longest and most quizzical face; for
he gave out signs of seeing daylight through political darkness. I made his acquaintance, and
found him of the free-and-easy school. 'On your way to see the General, stranger?' I inquired,
edging up to him in a polite sort of way--at the same time keeping up the free-and-easy. 'No,'
he answered with a laconic air, and a half significant shrug of the shoulder, 'I'm merely strolling
this way, leisurely contemplating. I take it you have not been long in the Capital?' he added.
'You are right on that point, citizen,' said I in return.

"'Expecting a good appointment?' he continued to inquire, philosophically. 'Well, it may be:
s'pose you're in for a Ministership, if you come out a martyr,' I replied, adding a Western
wink which is given with both eyes. He very good-naturedly acknowledged that I had hit the
mark, gave me his arm, said we must look in somewhere by the way-side and taste a small drop
of Young American whiskey, which would have the effect of making stronger our friendship. This
we did, drinking a good time to Mr. Pierce. No sooner was the whiskey down than all his ideas
came straight up. He said he was none of yer small fry;--like thunder he had stumped it for
General Pierce; like electricity he had down in Georgia and Western Alabama carried everything
for true democracy. 'Reckon Mr. Smooth never was down South?' he concluded, in parenthesis.
I assured him I never was; but that I had heard it was great of office-holders, and persons
who would, with every consideration for the Union in general, hold the federal government very
fast. To this he merely bowed in confirmation. To another question, which was rather of a delicate
nature, he said the South did not so much value the emoluments of office; but her sons reverenced
the noble qualities of their forefathers, with whom dignity was inherent,--and it was they
that were best qualified to maintain and spread its influence for the benefit of the nation.
It was the dignity of the nation, made manifest in its government, the South sought to maintain.
So said my friend, whose name was Pringle Pierpont--well acquainted with Uncle Sam. All of
a sudden he laughed outright, saying I was ignorant of the why and how to do, diplomacy of
Washington. What it is impossible to get you must always say you never wanted; and what is
within your reach, always say was far beyond our expectations. Meantime, be a philosopher,
and act with apparent indifference to what is going on around you: never tell a friend you
are worth less than one hundred thousand dollars. Upon such an hypothesis you may face the
General, talk profound (here and there in parenthesis letting out your knowledge of foreign
affairs), but never give him to understand that you can extract crooked and put straight ideas
into his head--above all, be sure and feel as independent as a wood-sawyer at two dollars a
day. Play well your face, and a spoil of the game just won will be yours. Marcy is father of
this principle! Heed not the sympathy between your heart and head,--while the one feels high
never let the other play low. Accept anything the General may be pleased to offer, adding that
it is in respect to his great talent and your anxiety to keep respectable his foreign affairs;
and think how you belie your conscience the while. Now, Smooth, you will see how open-armed
the General will be to see me!'

"I told Mr. Pierpont how glad I was to hear it, seeing that it might be the means of putting
me through on the same hook. Without hesitation, he said he would do what he could. Had I fought
in the Mexican war the case would have been different--had I been true to the South, the case
had been very different: the distinctions here enumerated brought down the scale. 'However,
the General and me are one, having fought by his side in Mexico, and you shall be put through.'
So saying, we proceeded on our way, reaching in a few minutes the White House, the gardens
of which we found transplanted with citizens--set here and there as thick as the gardener's
tulips. Before the circular carriage-way that sweeps to the great entrance, filed a rampart
of moody faces. Mr. Mulligan said they were there for the study of Botany, he believed. Near
the great portico stood the tall figure of a man plainly dressed in blackest broadcloth; he
sauntered about as if contemplating some hopeless game of party. Another looked as if he had
just sprung from a dressing-case to present himself before Grandpapa Marcy, in the hope of
his personal appearance making stronger his claims to a very acceptable appointment. A third
had a woe-begone smile on his face, and seemed studying the nature of a plant that would soon
need a careful hand. When accosted concerning his musings, he said he had done battle right
manfully for the democracy; and now Mr. Pierce's only reply was, that his demands were of so
hard a nature as to render it impossible for him to knock under. I told him that I would take
the small points of Mr. Pierce's ideas, and the strong points of Mr. Marcy's, and from them
try to work out the P's and Q's of his case.

"'You don't know if the General is at home, do you?' I inquired of him, with as much good intention
as it were possible to put in a question. 'Know nothing about him since he's possessed himself
of the White House!--My name is Major Sykes, of the Hard Shells, New York! I know as little
of him as the country did before he was elected:--now and then I see him smoking a long nine
while laying off at his ease, his dirty boots sticking out of the east window.' Here I interrupted
by asking if it were possible such charges could be true. 'True!' (exclaimed he, more gritty
than ever), 'true as daylight; the nation may bless itself if he stops there. Be careful, my
down-east friend, be careful. He will sell you for a mess of corn for his black pig. Down-east
will stand no chance until Down-south gets satisfactorily served: a wondrous change has come
over the General since he left the granite hills of his native State, where he did the law
trade in a small way. Now--Smooth, I think they call you, says he--if I be not much mistaken
the General will create a Babylon of parties, the result of which will render it difficult
to define his own position. If the General would but get up a cross between southern secessionists
and northern free-soilers, how happily it would illustrate his policy.' Clasping his hand,
'Major Sykes,' said I, 'I pity you.'

"'And so do I you,' he replied quickly. 'And when you come face to face with the General, think
of Uncle Sam, but don't forget yourself,--that is the motto!' Saying thus, he started off,
much after the fashion of a man who feels somewhat fudgy. Duly esteeming the position of a
man who has that in his composition which gives power to manliness, and has higher motives
than political for its aims, I made my way to the entrance of the White House, whistling Yankee
Doodle as I went. The closer I got to the great doors the more violent became the crowd, until
at last it ended in a jam of bodies. 'Not so fast!' exclaimed an anxious individual, whose
eyes darted terror from their very sockets. 'Gentlemen!--it's my turn,' re-echoes another half-stifled
voice. 'Was not I in the city seven weeks before the inauguration? and didn't I carry everything
for the General down in Pennsylvania?' roars a tall individual, whose hat had received what
may be called a shocking smash. Then they swayed forward in a serf of bodies. Now it poised,
as if for breath; then again it swayed onward, threatening limb and wind. An exceedingly lean
gentleman, with a hard brown face, and a patch over his left eye, cried out to the figure that
stood bowing at the door, and demanded that his card be first taken to the General, whom he
was kind enough to declare a right good fellow and a most intimate friend of his. 'Perhaps
you have a claim that way!' retorts a sharp voice, which belonged to a sturdy figure well out
at the elbows. He declared he had driven the whigs out of Old North Carolina--had carried strong
the, State for Pierce and posterity. Another individual near by, and who seemed inclined to
doubt the assertion, suggested whether it were not more probable he carried all the watering
establishments of that renowned state, seeing that his nose and eyes had stood the storm of
spirits. No one ever heard of his carrying anything else! 'True,' rejoined another: 'he can
drink his way through a democratic canvass, tell the most amiable lies, absorb any amount of
chaffing, and stands less at swearing than any other man in the country: more than all, he
can demolish the King's English at a stroke.' Such pulling, hauling, squeezing and yawning,
'cussin' and swearing--such cross-firing, crooked joking, and slang jibes, never before was
seen in such perfect medley. In calmer moments, even the hard-fisted, iron-hearted, unterrified
and never-washed democracy would have shed a few blushes over it. Old democracy was nowhere--Young
America was triumphant; his sprouts were up and coming.

"'Clear the way there!' I exclaimed, raising my voice to a point. 'Mr. Smooth will walk in,
and himself present his card to the General.' The crowd looked amazed,--begun to give way.
'Mr. Smooth, citizens,' continued I, motioning as if it were my intention to speechify, 'is
something of a body--don't stand none of your small fritters. Mr. Smooth--like the principles
of his party--was intended for cutting a figure in the world; he will unmask aristocracy, whip
creation, and demonstrate the truth of manifest destiny.' Then they all shouted a fashionable
hee-haw, by which they hoped to drive me off the track; but it was no go. 'Clar the way,' says
I, 'or I'll split the crowd like a thousand of bricks!' I accompanied the word with a terrible
look, at which they filed right and left as I chased square up to the inner door, where stood
a stiff sort of person, whose clothes had grown on him--so tight were they. Surprised at my
sudden approach, he first gave many nervous winks and blinks, and then added the silly airs
of my Lord Spoonbill's menial, who, with hair buttered and powdered, knew but the servilities
of flunkeyism. 'Is the General at home?' I demanded, adding before he had time to answer, that
if he had a spare lucifer I'd have no objection to taking a smoke with him. With the consequence
of a sleepy congressman, he inquired if my business with the General was special. He seemed
to have the keeping of the General, much after the fashion of a keeper who guards the wild
animal of a menagerie.

"'You must send up your card: it's a question whether he is out of his morning gown and slippers,
however!' Here the man looked doubtingly at the card, then gave his head a significant shake.

"'General ain't got so mighty big since he moved from New Hampshire?' I inquired, as the fellow
hesitated and again viewed me from the extreme points. 'Now, Uncle Sam, to you I would say
a word, hoping, in the spirit of a very good christian, that it may be received as wholesome
advice. You, Sam, are forgetting that fame which should reflect us in future ages; you, Sam,
are assisting those who would lay sullied hands on our pure republicanism--who would sink it
in the political slough, and build over it the reeking bastard of a pitiable tyranny. Stretch
out thy hand, Sam, that we may cease to cut before the world and the rest of mankind so sorry
a figure. Sam! you have sent your little villains out upon the world; recall them ere they
prove themselves great fools at our expense.'

"Well, to go back:--I began to push my way past the flunkey, when he summoned his brass and
said I couldn't come in--that I must slide myself into costume of the eight stripe! This to
me was neither diplomatic nor polite. And being deemed impolite, according to the rules of
our Young America, I placed the broad front of my knuckle-bones between his observators, (just
to bring out his spunk), and demanded to know what they charged in Washington for a few knockings-down.
To which he elongated himself, and with cool assurance said it had never before been his fortune
to be put through the process--hence he was not prepared to figure up the amount. A place called
limbo, he said, was just over at the corner; that I better keep an eye to it. This last saying
gave the crowd outside furniture for a good laugh; they, the citizens, set to quizzing me about
the hang of my breeches, which they were pleased to call diplomatic. This, I inferred, was
in consequence of Grandpapa Marcy having gone to there was no knowing how deep into the breeches
business, hoping thereby to prevent plain American citizens making very unplain apes of themselves
when abroad. Indeed, neighbor Marcy would demonstrate to the world that cloth and diplomacy
were two very different things. And this doctrine my Uncle Buck--all praise to his name--fully
endorsed,--that is, he proved himself the only American minister not given to purloined crests
and crimson cloth.

"'Smooth is a nine-cornered citizen in the rough: he needs polishing down with a federal holly-stone
before he can be admitted into good society:' a voice like the creaking of a door resounded
through the passage. Being a rough sort of citizen didn't affect me as long as I had the straight
up-and-down principles within. Well, I got up the go-a-head, and walked in steady. 'T'wont
do! citizen Smooth!' interposes the flunkey, putting out his right hand as his face reddened
into a blaze. 'Young America must keep within bounds; he must conform to the established etiquette
before he can see the General.' Not liking to be out of sorts, I turned to him, and with the
best kind of good nature told him not to come within grasping distance.

"Lord bless yer soul, Uncle Sam! I told him it was always good policy to keep civil to distinguished
individuals, and treating his insolence as Captain Ingraham would an Austrian proclamation,
I kept onward (that's the motto!) until the passage-way opened into a gorgeously decorated
hall, the motto on the door of which I surveyed until my head begun to ache. The General seems
to have got him a snug and well-ordained establishment, thought I. But the fixings were rather
more profuse than democracy in its simplicity had led me to suppose its taste appreciated.
But there was no concealing the fact, that the democracy--its love of simplicity not excepted--did
pay large sums now and then for showy fixtures and grand failures. The short-comings of the
New Hampshire law-shop were extinct--elegance everywhere met the eye. While enjoying my meditations
one flunkey approached another, telling him to keep a keen eye on that fellow--meaning me.
Then a slim figure done up in dignity and tight clothes approached me with a polite bow: 'Please
remember this is the President's mansion,' said he, viewing my perpendicular as if he questioned
whether my length was all real growth. Seeing that the establishment belonged to Uncle Sam,
I assured him he was a little too impertinent.

"'Now, neighbor!' says I to the citizen, don't deceive yourself by supposing the General has
got his aristocracy up like this before he has lodged three months in the White House. I'm
an independent citizen; come to put some straight policy into the General, who, with the assistance
of his grind-stone man, Fourney, unfortunately has got everything into a twist. My name (sometimes
they call me Squire) is Solomon Smooth. It don't matter what they call me now, for be it known,
ye men of titles, all the fishermen in our district have become judges and generals. This is
the result of that necessity that makes negro-drivers of the south captains and majors. 'But
the President,' said he, 'has got such a fearful load of business on his hands this morning,
it will be impossible he can see Mr. Smooth, nor are the apartments in a state to be seen by
visitor--' 'Always in the suds!' I interrupted. 'No! that ain't it,' he continued, half trembling
of fear; 'but the President is new, nor yet has got into the straight way of doing crooked
business.'

"'Never mind that,' replied I, 'Smooth's an independent citizen, who must not be interfered
with while taking a turn round the establishment: he neither stands on ceremony nor political
point-making.' The fact was, Mr. Smooth had a very wholesome hatred of the nonsense of ceremony,
and always pitied that complacency of Uncle John Bull who, like a well-worn and faithful pack-horse,
never flinched under the heavy burden of that precious legacy called royal blood, which, said
blood, was fast absorbing the vital blood of the nation. May our Union always be spared the
degradation of such blood!

"The fellow, seeing I was not to be outdone, gave it up for a bad job, and contented himself
with following me here and there, keeping a fixed eye on my motions, as if he feared I was
going to become enamoured of some of Mr. Pierce's chambermaids, which said commodity was acknowledged
to be very pretty, and much admired by Jones, who did the fashionable at Willard's. It having
been said that the General, like Jackson, would keep himself, I endeavored to persuade the
fellow to show me his nook. He only shook his head and said it wouldn't do: so I took a careless
stroll through the loose apartments, and ceased only when my sight was gratified. 'Well!' says
the flunkey, adding a deep sigh and a despairing shake of the head, 'it's no use trying to
control this citizen; he's of the fast school, without bowels.'

"'You may believe it!' returned I, advancing toward a broad circular stairway that wound downward
far into the regions below, where I expected to find Fourney and Company holding the General
down upon the grindstone, while Uncles Caleb and Jeff turned, and Marcy stood by to say when
enough of the rough was got off. 'There! in my soul he's going down into the kitchen!' The
fellow bawled out as I passed down, and soon disappeared, saying it was just the winding way
I sought; and, though the things to be seen in the vortex to which it led might be dangerously
dear to the nation, the proof would at least be convincing. On I went, the way darkening as
I advanced.

"Down, down, down, went, groping my way (significant of the General's policy) through a long
dark passage, whence came a rancorous stench, strong enough to kill cats and doubtful democrats.
'Keep the right hand way for the kitchen: General is in there, assisting in the making of a
monster stew. Work your course through the smoke--you may be sure Mr. Pierce is in the thickest
cloud, though over the smallest stew-pan,' a voice echoed, as if broken on the winds. 'All
right!' I muttered, confronting on my way the still stronger odour of the sickening steam.
My intention was to have a political discussion with the cook (Fourney by name) and say a thing
or two to the General; for I had got a sort of cross-grained notion into my head that he was
compounding a grand stew for the black pig with the horns. Meanwhile my stomach said it would
have no objection to join the General over a good breakfast. Presently I scented the frying
of fish, which betold that I was on the right track. But lo! as I was about to open a great
door that led into where the fussing and frying was going on, a voice screamed out--'Visitors
are forbidden these premises!' Here was a pretty kettle of political fish. 'Much you know about
it!' I replied testily, and turning saw nothing but fog and confusion. Faith and energy being
the two great pillars of human progress, I summoned them to my aid, and pressed onward, determined
to see for myself who regulated the culinary. This resolution was adopted solely on the ground
that the General had repudiated his responsibility to the people, and joined hands with those
who eat up all the loaves and little fishes.

"Mr. Smooth, on behalf of Young America, esteemed the having positive proof of how Mr. General
Pierce kept his kitchen things a duty he could not forego, and upon the strength of which he
presented himself to the august culinary cabinet, which he found enveloped in a dense cloud.
As I passed the great door, a fat man from Florida, who filled that office of steady habits,
the doorkeeper, said Mr. Smooth, which he read on my card, was decidedly impertinent; the more
so because neither of the old grey-back parties had ever troubled themselves about the kitchen
fixings; that the present was an innovation he was sure Mr. Pierce would resent by the withholding
of appointments. I left him to his opinion, and delved my way through the smoke, until I began
to think I had lost myself, and instead of Mr. Pierce on the grindstone found a lower region
of unlimited extent--so murky and dismal was the place. They said it didn't use to be so! Such
fritter frying; such johnny-cake baking; such chowder making, and flounder frying! Nearly a
dozen fine buxom-looking, corn-fed females (helps),--such as Vermont only can grow, were stuffing
and stewing, and beating and battering, and themselves seeming on the eve of dissolution. They
evinced alarm at my presence, but I told them not to be scared, inasmuch as I was an intimate
acquaintance of the General, for whom I carried Cape Cod. On the left side of the kitchen there
stood at a great deal table an aged maid whose mien was somewhat fidgety. This visible nervousness
was increased with the labour necessary to prepare the ponderous pile of soft dough-nuts she
worked upon; which, she said, when ready (though of little substance) were intended to satisfy
the Down-easters, who never expected much, and seldom got anything. I pitied the poor old lady,
for she seemed well worn. She declared it was pinching times in the kitchen--that is, her part
of it. She prepared a deal of little niceties for the peace-loving North: but, the General
was so pinching with matters on that side of the house, and had become so enamoured of the
black pig! This voracious brute demanded everything, and got what he demanded--even got us
into a deal of trouble. Indeed, it had been said that all the swill in the country wouldn't
satisfy him--he would seek abroad for more. 'Needn't be afraid, old lady,' said I, edging up
to her in a polite sort of way: 'Smooth won't harm nobody. The New Englanders think well of
the women--they do!' Here I gave the old lady my hand, and shook her's right heartily. 'Why,'
I continued, 'there's three Women's Rights Societies down Massachusetts way, any one of which
can start a breeze at pleasure--blow the men all into thunder! I say, old lady, better join
one of them--pay fifty cents, and blow the men all into political rags. Musn't take what I
say amiss; but you looks as if you could do some blowing: the General standing much in need
of that article, why not volunteer? The General is going it pretty fast now, but just get the
Women's Rights Societies to blow him a little, and he'll go fast enough for any Young American
party out.' After leaving the old woman, who said she was nearly related to General Cass, I
went politely to the other girls, bidding them, one after another, a square down good-morning,
ending with a social chat and a smile for them all. On the opposite side of the smoky kitchen
stood the grim figure of a nigger wench, as big as the north side of a Dutch lighthouse, and
as saucy as Benton's goat. The way she was making the wool fly over a sas-pan as big as old
Zack Coffin's ile kettle was a caution to nervous folks. 'What on earth have ye got in that,
eh?' I inquires, peeping over the side into the half-scalding foam.

"'What business is that to you?' sounds, like thunder rolling away in the distance, from t'other
side the cauldron. Looking up almost dumb-founded I espied the hard phiz of the General, in
dim outline through the fog and steam, stirring away at a massive ladle.

"'Pierce! Lord love yer soul--is it you?' says I, my feelings rising into a rhapsody of affection
for him: 'Give us yer hand.'

"'Yes, it's me; just come round here if you can see your way through,' says he; and I fumbled
my way round, and got him by the hand, and had a hearty good shake, just for old acquaintance sake.

"'But what in the name of Columbus are you doing here?' I inquired, touching him on the elbow,
significantly.

"'Well!' he answers, rather undecidedly, 'just helping prepare this pot of mixture for the
black pig.' He kept on moving his big ladle with one hand and throwing in additional feed with
the other, from a bucket that stood close by.

"I inquired of the General where he kept so dangerous an animal, and was told in the most complacent
manner that he ran all about, was as ravenous of power as the gentleman of those lower regions
we hear so much about is of sinners; that he demanded all the country's swill. Here the General
threw into the cauldron another sprinkling of grits, which he said was to complete the pot
of homony. It was merely the daily feed of the black pig, which the colored female assisted
the General in preparing. The General seemed very good-natured, and commenced a mathematical
description of the ingredients of the mixture, when suddenly there came a fierce blow from
behind, which well nigh tilted him deep into the foaming liquid. I grabbed the broad expanse
of his nether garments, while the wench screamed, and was only quieted when she found him safe
under her broad lee. A deep sonorous voice responded:--'Stir quicker in the feed!' I turned
to see from whence it came, and who had dealt thus unmercifully with the General, when behold!
there stood this hideous animal. With fourteen horns he incessantly used, and two just growing,
he hoped in time to use; with a back of thorns he ever and anon threatened all who came near
him; with a tail of poison he defiantly lashed, and a wicked eye that sought objects afar off--he
was the most pertinacious brute unchained. Moreover he had a snout like a ploughshare, with
which he had frequently driven Mr. Pierce to the wall.

"'Add more grits!' again the brute growled out, as if alike unhappy with himself and those
around him. The voice had scarcely delivered its command, when Mr. General Pierce, as undecided
as wanting in vigor of intellect, turned gently round, patted the hideous monster on the head--said
he would do all he could to pacify him, though to appease his discontent seemed impossible.
Indeed, it was a fact that notwithstanding much of the swill intended for the whiter portion
of the litter was sacrificed to this demanding brute, he illustrated his gratitude by threatening
to swallow Mr. Pierce into the bargain. This was most unfortunate, seeing how much had been
done to transplant the breed to foreign lands.

"Mr. Smooth felt that for a President to be thus driven to extremes was indeed an unenviable
position. I told him I thought Young America would do something, and, with a little advice
concerning his principles, passed on through the smoke and foam until I confronted Uncle Jeff
and Cousin Guth, both hard at work over a blazing fire, frying a monster fish. Uncle Jeff's
apron looked as if he did most of the greasy work, while Guth looked on and directed the turns--now
and then whispering a word to the French cook, who with sparkling eye, and oval olive face,
and hair so glossy, black, and curly, was dexterously compounding a luscious sauce. 'Going
it on the strong!' said I, giving Uncle Jeff a significant wedge under the shorts as he was
about to let the grease in the stew-pan fuzzle. Guth, who at the moment commenced dredging
in a little more pepper, and a little more butter, and a small sprinkling of salt, said they
had been trying to cook this old fish for there was no knowing how many years, all to no purpose;
but now that the arts of the very best French cook in the country had been secured he was sure
to be done brown. Here he smiled and turned to the cook in question, who bowed with such grace!
Such a bow in the presence of ladies would have secured his reputation. Indeed, the said cook
was extremely neat of person, though rather below the middle stature, and was well thought
of among lawyers and ladies, who declared they liked his graces better than his gravies. 'He's
of the right stripe--a fillibuster cook!' said Jeff, exultingly, as Guth gave the coals another
stir. 'This is a Cuba flounder,' interposed Guth. 'You see, Mr. Smooth, the General is exceedingly
partial to this sort of flounder, but he doesn't understand the quality of dressing requisite
to the cooking it--he must be done with native sauce. It is necessary he should be fried in
a southern griddle, with plenty of native sauce--an article for which this cook of ours is
not celebrated.'

"'Well, gents!' rejoined I, 'if you do brown that old fellow this season I'll knock under.
However, don't be bashful about extending Smooth an invitation to breakfast: understand, he
is rather fond of a good fish hash, which he thinks it is the profession of your French cook
to do up.'

"'Lord bless you!' quickly interrupted Uncle Jeff, 'being a good Down-east democrat, your wish
shall be gratified.' Then in great good nature he told me just to step along, and a little
further into the dark smoke I'd find Grandpapa Marcy and Uncle Dib, exerting their wondrous
energies over a stew they were puzzled to get to the right substance. Knowing that their good
advice was much better as example than the result of their actions, I wended my way along,
leaving Guth and Jeff to their frying, and soon came upon the two old worthies, busily employed
over stews of the most incomprehensible ingredients. 'That,' spoke Grandpapa Marcy, as I approached
within hearing distance, 'is the real democratic stew, it will cement hard shells and soft
shells into one strong conglomerate mass.' He pointed to a punch-bowl held between their legs--(for
they were seated on the floor)--and containing a mixture they stirred with spoons containing
the Tammany-hall mark. For some time I stood contemplating the venerable appearance of these
two, nor could I resist a smile at the singular occupation they had so readily adopted. Uncle
Dib seemed happy, and evidently had a keen sense of what the consistency of the stew must be
to make the flounder palatable. Grandpapa's countenance, nevertheless, wore an air of deep
anxiety. He had undertaken the management of the most unruly set of cooks that ever infested
the kitchen of a respectable gentleman; and they had made a shocking mess. And, too, Grandpapa,
was unhappy; his clothes bore seedy marks, and his breeches were in such a plight--it really
excited our pity. I called his attention to an unmentionable rent in a conspicuous place, but
he seemed careless about it--said it was of no consequence--and that Uncle Sam was a good old
soul, and always paid the tailor--he knew from experience. Suddenly I heard the formidable
negro-wench raising her voice in admonition. She was scolding the General, who still kept stirring
in the homony grits for the black pig. Then a noise came through the foam and smoke as of one
in trouble. 'Faster, faster!' it spoke, 'stir in more grits!' Then followed a loud splash and
a deathlike shriek; alarm and consternation spread throughout the building. From the cauldron
came the cry. Grandpapa moved for a moment, as was his custom, declared the voice to be no
other than that of the General himself. Dib agreed ('There's trouble!' he exclaimed) and both
sprang to their feet, and with anxious countenances hastened to the rescue, Marcy crying out,
as he passed Jeff and Guth, 'Stick by the flounder, boys! Stand firm; don't give in until he's
well cooked; we'll save the General--you dig in the basting.' The boys, as Grandpapa called
them, were crowding the charcoal finely. Always having a taste for seeing what was going on,
I kept close at Dib's heels, and soon saw through the grim smoke where the trouble was. The
black pig had got the General poised by the nether part of his breeches, on his Virginia horn,
and was having a nice little game of shuttle-cock with him, just for his own amusement, while
his executive victim shrieked most piteously, expecting every succeeding surge would land him
beneath the surface of the boiling mass. The old nigger wench had fainted at the sight, and
lay sprawled on the floor, as Marcy, making a grab at Mr. Pierce's breeches at a moment when
the savage brute was giving a last vault ere he landed his victim into the scalding homony,
tripped his toe and brought his length upon the floor beneath the pig's hind legs. 'It's all
gone!' exclaimed the General; and in another minute nothing was seen save the soles of his
boots protruding above the boil-surface. The surly brute, having generously moistened Grandpapa
Marcy's head, stood, his fore-feet on the rim of the cauldron, gazed after his struggling victim,
and held his head high aloft in triumph. This brought Uncle Dib to the rescue. After raising
Grandpapa, with limbs extended, they drew forth the half-cooked body, reeking with the black
pig's swill, and laid it on the kitchen floor, the ungrateful quadruped walking victoriously
away. Satisfied that I had seen enough for one day, I sought my way back to the National, where
I contemplated the next move necessary to my mission.

"Well, Uncle Sam, I reckoned I'd seen enough of the kitchen arrangements; so I left them scraping
the General--that is, getting off the injured outside, in order to see what really he was made
of, and what he had beneath the undefinable cover. When in Washington, there's nothing like
going ahead; and if you can look a man into respect for you, so much the better. Dignitary
or no dignitary won't do; you must always profess to be a distinguished individual. Well, on
the strength of the invitation extended by Jeff--to take a fish breakfast on the following
morning, when it was expected the flounder would be done brown, I again repaired to the White
House, and after pushing my way through all kinds of passages and doorways, found myself in
a gorgeous sort of establishment.

"'Your lookin for somethin, I take it?' said a trim figure, whose face rather bordered on the
brassy.

"'Well! I reckon I am. Can you tell a stray citizen where the General hangs out in the morning?'
I replied, as he confronted me and paused.

"'Sartin!' he rejoined, interrupting me, and at the same time looking very sociable, as if
he wanted to have a talk on politics. Nevertheless, it was getting close upon the hour of breakfast;
so he takes me by the arm, and stepping through a frickazeed passage up to a large door which
opened into a ponderously furnished room, 'I'll take your card, sir!' continued he, with a
low bow and a motion of the hand to sit down.

"Didn't have a card at hand, but chalked down Mr. Solomon Smooth, from Cape Cod, on a piece
of thick paper per, that suited all the purposes.

"'Mr. Smooth belongs to the Young American party, if I mistake not?' he returned, with a polite
bow.

"'You better believe that, citizen!' says I, and off he goes, soon disappearing through a door
at the other end of the room. While he was gone, I thought it wouldn't be a bad idea to take
a survey of the premises. So, lighting my cigar, I began at the top end first. Such looking-glasses,
sofas, carpets--so much fashion and flummery, that nobody could tell what utility it contained,
I never had seen before. Tell you what it is, Uncle Sam, we have an expensively queer way of
representing our republican simplicity! As I was squinting about, in comes the General, looking
as bright as a newly-coined cent. Running up to me, with hand extended, and exulting with joy,
he spake: 'Great kingdom, Smooth!--is it you?' And then he shaked my hand as if he never would
let it go.

"''Tis me too!' says I, giving him a significant touch on the elbow. 'Didn't expect to see
you looking so bright, General--rather a bad kettle of fish that you unfortunately got into
yesterday, eh?'--

"'Oh no--things like those are mere trifles; hardly worth mentioning amidst the current turmoil
of the day. That black pig is an ungrateful brute, though, I must confess in confidence,' the
General replied, touching me on the arm.

"'He sunk you in the very swill you were cooking for him, eh?--petulant brute!' I rejoined.

"'Well, Smooth,' said he, 'don't let us say any more about that; I was deceived--most egregiously!
How are all the Young Americans down your way--the real go-ahead stripe?' he inquired anxiously:
and we both laughed heartily to see one another. 'They're all bright ends up, General,' said
I. 'General!' (I touched him on the shoulder) ''taint more nor three years since we used to
go fishing in old Sam Peabody's pond; hain't forgot it, I reckon?'

"'Not I, Smooth. Give us yer hand for old acquaintance sake! No change of power or circumstances
could make me forget old associations. Fortune may change, my feelings never; they have been
and shall always be with the people.' The General couldn't keep the dignity on, to save his
life; he was not born to do so!

"'Give us yer hand, General,' I demanded in reply; 'right glad to see you, and to know that
old New Hampshire's granite hills have not faded from your memory, nor been absorbed in the
quantity of swill it seems necessary to provide for the black-pig. But, I say, Frank, what
harlequin-like changes politics take in a republic--now and then! Two years ago, and who'd
a' thought a' seeing you here? 'Stonished you yourself, didn't it? Scarcely expected to brush
old General Scott's fuss and feathers into a cock'd up hat, eh? There's nothing like a man
keeping his mouth shut when he's got others to do the fighting for him; you know that, don't
you, General?'

"'Mr. Smooth is always asking some strange questions, or making some queer observation!'

"'Now, General, I reckon how you didn't get the hang of this 'ere establishment all on a sudden?
Seems to me how I'd like to be President of these United States about two months, merely to
have the satisfaction of straightening the cross-grain of political parties; they have got
so so crooked now-a-days.' The President just then said he would take my hat, and hoped I make
myself quite at home. As everything seemed so comfortable, I had not the slightest objection.
'Now, Smooth,' he reiterated, spreading his length on a magnificent sofa, 'I am anxious to
hear how the Young American party progresses down your way; and you must tell me all about
it. I intend to give you a roving commission as my minister in general.'

"'I'll do that,' I replied, and just when I was getting the story fixed square, he interrupted
me by saying--'One moment, Mr. Smooth; we are going to have a flounder breakfast--it's the
same old fellow you saw Uncle Jeff and Guth cooking yesterday morning,--they've got him pretty
well browned--You must join us.'

"'Well,--have no objection; but tell us, General, how is the missus?'

"'Right well, Smooth; she'll be delighted to see you.'

"'And so will I to see the missus; I know'd her when she warn't bigger nor Cousin Obadiah's
Jane, and didn't think no more about being Mrs. President of these United States nor my missus.'
In answer to which, the General said a respectable man might as well be President as anything
else--we all know how to be. Here we joined arms, and like jolly fellows of a stripe, took
a few turns up and down the apartment. 'Well! here's pure democracy,' thought I to myself.
Taking Mr. President Pierce's arm doubled my independence--made me feel that I was the left
wing of his brightest hope. Having talked over a few small matters of foreign policy, we sauntered
together into one of the largest, and longest, and handsomest breakfast rooms this side of
Texas. A table of great length stretched across its centre, upon which was arranged in profusion,
Georgia potatoes, New Hampshire bacon, Virginia oysters and fried eels, South Carolina rice
cakes, and Cape Cod fish balls--all strong incentives to the stomach of a hungry politician.
Trim waiters stood round, like statues tailored and anxiously waiting a guest's nod. As I cast
a bird's eye glance down the scene, in popped the General's missus, all calm, and with an air
of motherly gentleness that inspired me with lofty reflections on woman's mission. As she approached
with her hand extended, and such a sweet smile on her face, I could not resist a salutation
thus earnest, and grasping it, gave it a good, warm-hearted shake. She said great was her joy
at seeing Mr. Smooth--plain Solomon Smooth. She could not feel more joy were I an Emperor--no
not even were I a governor of Hungary, who, having lost the chance of winning a diadem, would
Uncle Sam lent him aid to regain it. In another minute the gong sounded, the great doors at
the opposite end of the hall opened, a train of serious-faced gentry entered, and as unceremoniously
took seats. Mr. Smooth being put down number one, took a seat beside the missus. After a blessing
had been dispensed, the conversation turned on politics and potatoes. A potent-looking individual,
who sat not far down the table, said the Union was known by its magistracy, which being an
established fact, should make it incumbent that no chief of this great and growing nation leave
the federal chair unmarked by some bold stroke. 'Good!' says I, 'Smooth always went in for
bold strokes--they are just the things to make outsiders knock under--' Here I was just getting
up to make a speech on behalf of manifest destiny, when a gent who ought to have been voted
into the army as a regular cried out:--'Keep cool! keep cool! Mr. Smooth.'

"Scarcely had he ceased speaking, when Uncle Caleb Grandpapa Marcy, Cousin Guth, and good-natured
Uncle Dib, and the grindstone-man, Fourney,--all dressed in bright aprons, and white ghost-like
night-caps--made their appearance, tugging and puffing at a hand-bier, on which lay the much-talked-of
flounder. Jeff, who walked in front with a drawn sword, wheezed, and Grandpapa grunted, and
Dib said, 'Carry a steady hand, boys!' and Guth said he would bear up his part, which was the
tail part. Staggering along under the load, they brought forth in solemn procession the flounder,
and after a good deal of bad diplomacy, laid him, like a stuffed whale, on the table. The General
was not quite certain about the catch of this flounder; but as there was nothing like having
a dash at things now-a-days,--'here's go into it!' he exclaimed. 'I don't believe that fish
is cooked enough,' retorted John Littlejohn, a statesman of very elastic capacity, who spoke
for Uncle Bull, on t'other side of the big pond.

"Looking as if he were about making a longe into him, hit or miss, the General seizes up the
big carving-knife (generally used by Grandpapa Marcy) and asks who will have the first bit?
The pall-bearers, still retaining their bright aprons and white caps, had taken seats at the
table, among the guests. 'It's all for me!' mumbles a sullen voice; no one knew from whence
it came. 'It's all for me!--who are you?' reiterated Mr. Pierce, kicking under the table: 'I
believe in my soul it's the black pig, who always pursues unto the death what he considers
his!' True enough, there the savage brute was, lashing everybody's legs, and threatening destruction
with his wicked mouth. No one knew how he got into the dining-room; but where the good Uncle
Sam had anything to eat or give, there he was sure to be, demanding more than his share. After
a hard tussle, Grandpapa and Uncle Caleb succeeded in driving him out of the room; albeit,
it was only for a time. The unsatisfied animal was always keeping Uncle Sam in a fuss, and
the folks about the White House in an uproar. 'That critter is always crying 'Me first!' rejoined
Uncle Caleb, who, having lost his white cap in the tussle with the black pig, looked funny indeed.

"'A Cuba flounder!' exclaims the General, who continued to work diligently, his face flushed
as crimson, but I as yet he had failed to secure the first slice. It was evident he had made
a stroke too bold, and would now be compelled to draw back a little--perhaps to take a few
more lessons in the diplomacy of carving. And while the General was trying to get the knife
into the neck part, the critter opened its mouth, and gasping looked as if it thought some
of swallowing a whole cabinet of philibusteroes.

"'The brute ain't cooked yet--if it don't open its mouth!' proclaimed the General, the hair
almost standing on his head, as he reclined back in fright.

"'The critter's going to be generous, I do believe!' chimed in Grandpapa, whose white cap,
during the moment of excitement, had fallen over into Mrs. Dobbin's plate; from whence that
good-natured lady, in the moment of anxiety, removed it to her lap, and ere she had been served
found it near her pretty lips, under the mistaken impression of its being a napkin. Grandpapa,
discovering his loss, politely developed the dear lady's mistake.

"'Tell you what it is General; you'll have to be mighty careful, or that Cuba flounder will
swallow all the shiners in Uncle Sam's brass box without yielding anything in exchange,' I
insinuated.

"'Not a bit on't!' says Uncle Jeff, going off into a state of excitement: 'Just lend me the
carver; I'll put him through;' and seizing the knife from Mr. Pierce's hand, and the steel
from Grandpapa's, he was just on the point of making a thrust into the fish, when his mouth
again expanded, his fins fluttered, and out came a long roll of paper. 'What on earth is that?'
inquired the astonished General, as Jeff unconsciously let the knife fall in fright, and Grandpapa
gave an anxious look toward the door, as if to measure the distance between it and his chair,--while
John Littlejohn applying his glass to his eyes, squinted seriously at it. 'He's not just done
enough for you yet, gentlemen; I think you had better let him stand awhile,' remarks our Cousin
John, rather coolly. 'You cannot republicanize him, unless you change his head and heart; I
can tell you that, my good fellows.'

"Uncle Jeff, at Grandpapa's bidding, took up the roll of paper, the text of which Mr. Pierce
requested him to read. 'A protest, your Excellency!' said Jeff, the paper vibrating in his
nervous hand. 'It says, this is to notify Brother Jonathan, that the extreme largeness of his
appetite, insatiate in its demands for my body, shall never be gratified therewith. You are
far-seeing, have grown powerful, and are rather a good sort of fellow, Jonathan; but I'm not
quite ready to say I should prefer either to belong to your household or provide your table
with dainty dishes. The fact is, Jonathan, and you know it, when disposed to think on the square,
we are not prepared to denounce our league loyalty and come over to you; common sense might
have convinced you of this fact. The world protests against your forcing propensities in this
little affair between us. For more than two centuries have I remained at peace; let me so continue.
I admit that kings, queens, and courtiers, have feasted on my fatlings, and even discomfited
me, and caused much discontent among my people; but even they would rather bear the ills that
be than fall victims to your black pig's will.'

"'Well!' interrupted Uncle Jeff, looking suspiciously about the table, 'if he ain't the toughest
old flounder I ever did see!'

"'Shouldn't be surprised if you found it so!' replied the fish, his spacious jaws opening,
and the end of another parchment slowly protruding from his mouth. 'Read that! I must get somebody
to help me to eject this instrument.' The General wrested it from its mouth, turned it over
and over, and tried and retried to read it. 'It's a protest from John, my Uncle, John Bull
and Johnny Crappo, which says:--'We, the said John and Louis, having entered into a sublime
alliance with our sublime brother of the East, by which one great and mighty power has been
concentrated, do humbly beg Mr. President Pierce (for whom we now have and ever hope to entertain
the very highest esteem) that he take heed how he dips his fingers into other people's political
pies. And, further, while exhibiting so earnest a desire to appropriate the choicest delicacies
of his neighbors to the cravings of his black pig, to be a little more modest. Now, we, the
undersigned Louis and John, whose names--in alliance have become mightiest among the mighty,
are duly convinced of the many inconsistencies, irregularities, and breaches of good faith,
together with the many petty acts of tyranny, the mother of this Antilla flounder has been
guilty of, to her own disgrace. But greatness should be known by its forbearance with the weak;
hence we should bear and forgive. Yea, we admit that her footprints are marked with blood--that
her history has numberless pages written in blood--that her arrogance and avarice have blotted
out her national virtue, and now work like a battering-ram her downfall. Yet, as arrogance
is but another name for weakness, is it not better to brush off than kill the wasp? The principle
herein contained we have, in the sublimity of our power, adopted as an example to the nations
of the earth. Jonathan! we like your amiability; we esteem you as a keen fellow, who, large
of trade, and wise in the ways of a cheap government, may well boast a happy people: bridle,
then, the audacity of that southern ambition, lest it betray you into unforseen difficulties.
Let peace be the guardian of that commerce now teeming its grandeur and wealth on your shores;
and in all kindness, Mr. Pierce, do we speak, when we say,--look to those things you send into
foreign lands to represent the quiet grandeur of our institutions: send the gentleman whose
conduct may be a means to great ends, for ruffians leave their little stains behind.''

"'Well!' exclaimed the General, his large square face reddening with anxiety, as he turned
to Uncle Dib and Grandpapa, 'I should call this the insolence of sublime power. Let them try
their sublime power on this side of the Atlantic!' Here the General gave his head a significant
toss, and wiped his lips as he added,--'Young America can whip the three.' This pithy speech
being received with great applause, he reached over his hand, and was about taking mine, when
I warmly embraced his, saying--'Give me you yet, General! Messrs. John, Louis & Co., having
consolidated their sublime power, must not entertain the idea of making a menace over here.
We have no means of questioning the legitimate qualities of this sublime joint-stock company;
but we would advise its keeping decidedly cool about matters this side of the big water, lest
its stock get to a very low-water mark. This old flounder, nevertheless, is a hard case for
cooks, nor in my opinion will he be made softer by that celebrated French cook of yours, whose
process is that of too suddenly piling on the charcoal. In fact, I believe it not untrue that
in political cooking a Frenchman is more a man of muss than method. This you, General, might
have known before you engaged him to cater for Spanish appetites. In truth, (it must be told
now and then, General), that black pig you so fondly nurse, and which you can neither tame
nor make grateful, is sacrificing us to his poisonous litter. And, too, he is dividing his
own pen; and when pigs become divided among themselves, refuse to eat out of one trough, and
threaten to devour each other, they are sure to become an easy prey to the bore of fractional
sovereignity.' With the exception of the General, all listened attentively while I spoke: he,
exhibiting little concern, arose with the calmness of moonlight, and was about to make some
remarks, as the flounder again opened wide his mouth, which produced a pause. 'You are right,'
joined in the flounder; 'that black pig's love of territorial feasts knows no bounds, nor will
he stop at that point where justice sets the limit; he will continue his insatiate trade until
common sense and generous sentiment interpose and exterminate him. Here is another paper for
you--read it! It is the protest of the people of free, enlightened, and happy New England:
they protest against being swallowed up in your black pig's bowels!' Again the flounder mechanically
closed its mouth.

"'And my old governor across the water will not view with indifference this black brute's ever-threatening
disturbances. He watches long, waits patiently, moves cautiously, but enters upon the execution
of his plans with monstrous method,' interrupted Littlejohn, who spoke on behalf of his nation,
and for the status quo of nationalities in general.

"'I say, neighbor,' rejoins Mr. Sam Blowaway, a leader of the national Young American party,
'pears how, if your old chap over there attempts that game, he'll get himself boots deep into
a scrape he'll not find it so easy to claw out on.' And Sam got right up, and looked brimstone
at him, straight across the table.

"'I'm methodical, but not easily repulsed: impulsive acts do not constitute valor,' returned
John, rising coolly and dispassionately.

"'Grandpapa Marcy now got up to say a word or two, but Mr. Pierce had the floor, and demanded--Order!
Order, gentlemen!--Order in the White House! My boys want to get me into trouble, but I feel
that I can yet regulate my own household!' he rejoined, with a peremptory tone that excited
surprise.

"'Yes,' replied the flounder; 'I say so too. If you do not keep quiet, and live in harmony
among yourselves, I will be the means of swallowing you.' Just at this moment the black pig,
with savage grunt, bounded fearlessly into the room and upon the table, where he confronted
the flounder with open mouth, overturned the table, smashed all the crockery and pewter, made
the uproar and confusion complete. The pig and flounder fell upon each other, wrestled among
the wreck, nor ceased until, like Kilkenny cats, they had nearly devoured their substance.
Such a chaos of excitement as followed! Grandpapa and Uncle Jeff ogled one another in fear
and trembling, women fainted in the arms of gallant men; the General, covered with fish gravy,
cut the more sorry figure, as with thunderstruck countenance he raised his hands to protest
to the nation. Meanwhile the guests suddenly disappeared, and Grandpapa seriously damaged the
broad disc of his unmentionables; while Uncle Caleb, shaking his sides with laughter, stood
his comely figure in the doorway, the thumb of his right hand to his nasal organ, and his fingers
making five angles, quizzing the General in his dilemma. Esteeming it rather an ugly situation
for Mister President Pierce, for whose dignity I had a special regard, I picked myself up,
made an apology, bowed myself to the great door, and left the General to his pig. 'What a mess
you have made of it!' thought I, and straightaway ascended the cupola to watch the nation's
emotion.

CHAPTER IX.

MR. SMOOTH CIRCUMNAVIGATES THE GLOBE.

"When the nations of Europe give themselves up to the sword, let us aggrandize ours with the
arts of peace. This is my talisman. In that commerce which is our nation's pride there is more
of greatness than war can give, more of power than armaments can command. It would be well,
Uncle Sam, if you pondered over this; because, having your pockets well lined, war could supply
numberless valiant sons ready to do the emptying of them. This was a private opinion, which
forced itself upon my mind as I (having received a commission as minister in general to Mr.
Pierce) engaged passage in a spacious balloon, with which to navigate this little globe of
ours, and report here and there on the condition of our international difficulties. Indeed,
some of those difficulties required looking after. And as no man should permit his dignity
to take the upward turn when a penny may be turned, I reckoned on turning what I learned to
the very best account. That you spend your money very foolishly, Sam, is as true as sunrise;
but more than that, you intrust your honor (which is more precious than your gold) to those
who are seen abroad only to misnomer us. To counteract this state of things is the primary
object of my mission round the globe.

"This I was anxious to impress on General Pierce; but he seemed to have a wavering bump on
his head, and not seeing his way clear, came to the peculiar conclusion that Mr. Smooth had
a very novel head, full of novel notions. But he told me, by way of becoming enlightened on
the affairs of other nations, to keep a bright look-out, note down the items, and see where
we could turn the go-ahead of our people to account. As most of our small disputes were with
Mr. John Bull, who was prone to keep open any quantity of very vexatious questions, Mr. Pierce
thought it good policy to make John Littlejohn a fellow voyager with me. It was not a bad idea,
seeing that Mr. Pierce had an inward hatred of the Britishers, nor thought a war with them
would be the most unpopular thing in the world, inasmuch as it would attach to him the Young
American party, which said party might in gratitude render good service to his re-election.
Upon this principle Littlejohn's company was acceptable; and when he joined me at the National
we had a social bit of a chat together about the matter. John was not a bad fellow when once
you knew how to take him, but he had qualities of character which at times seemed at variance
with what he would have us believe were his straightforward principles. It was this trait of
character, at times defying analysis, we had to treat with most care, lest unconsciously it
embroil us. My friend Palmerston might without prejudice be taken as an excellent representative
of this unfortunate trait. 'Now,' says John, in a methodical sort of way, 'there are, to be
honest, (and acts will prove the truth of a principle), two great pirates in the world. You
know that, Smooth, just as well as I do.'

"'No I don't,' says I.

"'But you do!' he returns. 'There's your Uncle Sam: he will steal all territory adjoining his
dominions,--in a good-natured sort of way, merely to work out the problem of manifest destiny.
As for my old gentleman, Uncle John, why he has a dignified way of doing things, always plays
the part of a bold gentleman, and when he joins a kingdom it is with a modesty so quiet and
genteel. You needn't shake your head, Smooth,--such are facts; nevertheless, they are both
tenacious of their rights--a national trait of great value,--and will shed a river of human
blood to gain a very small point on paper. Like two great gamblers, they are opposed to the
principle of give and take, standing steadfastly by the take. Once they were father and son--thus,
the inheritance may be pardoned; and when they quarrelled it was not to be expected the son
would relinquish the traits so paternally bestowed. Now the parent is obstinate and the son
'cute; but the son has an eccentricity that prompts him to outwit. Not unfrequently the father
lets the son--just for peace sake--have his own way; but this letting him have his own way
has inclined his heart rather to the ungrateful than otherwise. His demands are at times somewhat
funny, and when made known surprise a world. And now that they are so firmly and extensively
identified with each other in pursuits of the noblest character, would it not be a sin to quarrel?'
Thus spoke John, very complacently.

"As he got through, the negro produced some liquor, piping hot. To be good-natured, and keep
cool, is one-half the battle; and to move those very desirable traits of our nature, we put
a hot punch a-piece into the mentality of the inner man, smoked a couple of long nines, bowed
compliments, and packed up our duds for the voyage. There was a great gathering where the balloon
was blowing up; but Mr. John Littlejohn and me walked cordially down and took our seat, bundled
in our traps, and sung out, 'Cut away the strings, and let her go!' I said I would steer for
Uncle Sam, and John said he would steer for Mr. Bull; so, not feeling inclined to quarrel about
the point, and knowing full well that the mother of constitutional governments (some facetiously
called her the mother of constitutional incongruities) always liked to have the first trick
at the wheel, we tossed coppers--after the fashion of good-natured diplomatists, when a large
stake is at issue. 'John!' I enjoined, 'let us keep calm, and put the point to a test that
never fails!' Here I gave him one of those pats on the shoulder so impressive, and pulled out
a double-headed cent, like unto those so much in use in General Jackson's time, when shaving
decapitated the deposits he found himself mounted on the back of a brass jackass. 'Here!' I
continued--'Heads, I win; tails, you lose.' To come the sharp over him in a more square sort
of way, I gave him an unmoved look straight in the eye, as I twirled up the copper.

"'I'll take the chance,' ejaculated John, and down came the other head. His countenance, you
may be assured, wore a singular seriousness. The truth was, that John always had one strong
idea in his head, and made a strong effort to keep that one straight, to the sacrifice of all
the rest. Acting upon that axiom that so stimulated the wood-sawyer who expected to be President
of the United States in a very few years, we cut away the fastenings, and having ascended high
among the clouds, sailed from the mist heavenward to the blue arch above. Our position was
not the most firm; but as Young America had the helm, and rather courted than feared danger,
the result could not be doubted. Now and then Mr. John looked somewhat stern of countenance,
and turned pale when I crowded the charcoal. 'Be careful, Smooth,' he lisped now and then,
grasping my arm as he took a look below--'Be careful; you know what a go-ahead sort of lot
you are. Your party would think nothing of going to the d----l, if it were only with steam
power.' It was indeed a dangerous position for large men with small ideas; but as Young America
was a small man with large ideas, the case became reversed. Well, we headed square for California,
and proceeded at lightning speed, fast overtaking that old slow coach of refulgent light that
has made sentimental the wild wisdom of the poet-world. Soon old Jacob's face loomed out upon
its broad disc, looking as good-natured as a Dutchman over a pot of lager beer. My friend John
seemed rather moody and dogged; however, we soon got within hailing-distance; and having provided
myself with a speaking-trumpet--John having forgot his--I esteemed it good policy to, in a
social way, have a small quantity of talk with Jacob, who, although a common sort of person,
I felt assured must be well posted on matters and things concerning manifest destiny. We were
running bow on, and at the moment I seized the trumpet for a blow, Jacob sung out--'Good morning!'
just like a free and easy citizen, who had sense enough to be approached at any time without
walling himself up in the dignity of that thing called a duke. His voice was like thunder,
with reechoes for accents. 'Mind your helm!--you steer rather wild, there!' he spoke.

"'Old feller! don't get into a pucker; there's not a mite of danger,' I returned. 'Just hold
up a little, and let us have a bit of a talk!'

"'Well, don't mind if I do,' good-naturedly returned the old man. So we hooked on to his establishment,--laid
her aback in the wind, and, as the sailor would say, 'came to.'

"'Who are you, anyhow?' continued Jacob, getting up and shaking himself.

"'Well, I'm Young America (Jacob shook his head, doubtfully, at the name) and my friend here,
is Cousin John, from across the water. We are going to take a view of state affairs around
this little globe of ours, that we may report to General Pierce in particular.'

"'Then you're from the States down yonder?' rejoined the old man.

"'Just so!'

"'Ah,--go-ahead fellers down there, they are! But they've got to mind their moves just about
this time.'

"'Seeing it's you, Jacob,--and knowing that you must be worn down with toil, s'pose we strike
a trade in a small sort of way?' Jacob shook his head, and replied:

"'Like your folks for their masterly energies, but rather not trade.'

"'That won't do, old fellow: you must come out on the new principles of civilizations. Who
knows that we may make an arrangement to annex your little establishment to these United States!
Young America has, you see, yet to fulfil the functions of manifest destiny.'

"'Don't, pray don't, bring your Young America about my dominions!' he exclaimed, interrupting
just as John Littlejohn was about to speak.

"John spoke, inquiring if his preferences were not for him? He knew old Jacob would like to
annex his dominions to Great Britain, seeing that he carried out his annexation in a quiet
sort of way. Jacob laughed right out--laughed irresistibly; laughed as if he meant it for something.
'To be honest with you, gentlemen, and I know you'll excuse me for being out-spoken,--I want
nothing to do with either of you. You'll both steal territory; and as for you, Young America,
take a word of honest advice--be contented with what has honestly fallen to you, covet not
that which is thy neighbor's, but improve what thou hast of thine own. At the same time, take
particular care how thou sail in this very lofty atmosphere. Your manifest destiny may fall
into martyrdom.'

"'That's right good advice, Uncle,' said I, (interrupting him), but it would be better it did
not smack so strong of that fogyism whose obstinate policy won't let the progress of those
United States come out. Anyhow, Jacob, seeing that you have got such a nice stock of territory,
dotted with fascinating hills and plains, upon which good speculations can be made in starting
a speculation in churches, as has become the fashion, doing a little in the tin business, laying
a few railroads, and building up factory villages, we must have a treaty of commerce--at all
events!'

"'No! no! no! You've large inards, Jonathan; and your youngest son,--Young America,--has got
such a pair of eyes! I'm afraid of him. No objection to joining in three cheers for Hail Columbia,
almost any time; but save me from your claws. You're both great pirates: pray be merciful to
your neighbors, and spare me my Independence. Your little place down there is become troubled
with wars and rumours of wars;--the shedding of innocent blood in streams at the caprice of
imbecile princes, who make the bones and blood of their subjects the waste material with which
to serve their incarnate ambition, tells me to beware. Beware of ambitious princes; the world
would be well rid of them!'

"'Like to hear you talk so, Uncle Jacob. Reckon how you've studied in a New England school!
There the greatest power springs from the humble people. Anyhow, Jacob, since we can't strike
a trade, nor do a thing or two in the way of speculation, s'pose we take a drop of whiskey punch?'

"'Can't object to that,' he returned.

"So, Littlejohn and me set about it, and in a very few minutes had a first-class punch brewed,
of which old Jacob supped most lavishly. In fact, he liked it so well that I reckoned he had
forgotten to stop drinking; and Littlejohn felt somewhat nervous lest the old fellow get fuddled
and turn everything over. John reckoned I'd better give him a cold julep to wipe down with;
but Jacob said he much preferred hot things, that his profession was quite cold enough. So,
after we put the punches down, and smoked some cigars, and received some good advice about
being careful how I proceeded, we loosened the strings and bid him good morning: it was coming
faint daylight, and Jacob had to be jogging. Just as I was leaving, my heart felt kind a down-pressed
to think what gorgeous territory he had spread out to a feller's eyes, without the slightest
chance of making an operation for a small portion of it--say just enough to get a foothold.

"Westward we went with breathless speed, soon losing sight of Jacob and his luminary. 'You
better reef down, Mr. Smooth. Should anything give way, and you tumble out and break your neck,
the democracy would go into mourning,' said Littlejohn, who had kept very quiet up to this time.

"'Not a bit of it!' I answered, 'our democracy is like Parr's Life Pills, enervating and elasticating.
You may break its head, but you cannot kill;--it belongs to the heart, and springs from the
laws of right.' At this Littlejohn began to get dogged,--to shows signs of very bad nature.
Knowing this was most unprofitable to him I yielded indulgence. To be good-natured in cases
of Emergency is a most valuable trait; and to whip a man for being ill-tempered, when nothing
can be made at it, is most absurd.

"The world outside of the United States is inclined to believe American democracy something
next to infernal--that it must have everything it sees, and turns everything it comes in contact
with into dollars, cents, and republicanism. To such it is a mysterious power, moved by chemical
agency. As for Littlejohn, he thought that in addition to our speculative spirit we should
be governed by modesty, an example of which his forefathers had set us. This he recommended
on the principle of a gentleman who keeps up his dignity, gaining one half his object through
the influence of his mien. Many said this was the precise material General Pierce was most
deficient in; and that if the General would preserve more dignity and less bluster his administration
had been marked with results more in keeping with the true character of the nation. Old Uncle
John could brag stoutly; but Jonathan was a magnificent player at the same game. I realised
this as Littlejohn took a long look over our wonderful West, and asked by what singular process
of diplomacy we got to many fine states, so richly burdened with natural resources? He reckoned
we must have come the smart of our go-ahead principles over the French, Spanish and Mexicans,
and then insinuated ourselves into their dominions. But, this being the smallest end of an
Englishman's ideas whittled down to the very point of self-conceit, Smooth thought it best
to be good-natured and make the best of his calmness. The fact is, John Bull and Cousin Jonathan
must be good friends; strife is the dire enemy of good order, while war becomes the assassin
seeking to overthrow those principles of constitutional liberty, both nations so wisely combined
in their constitutions. Why tear down the noble edifice you cannot rebuild? why blight the
cheering prospects of thousands to gratify the vain ambition of pedantic politicians?

"'Hallo! Smooth, my dear fellow, what place is this below?' cries out Littlejohn, looking over,
as the balloon made a B line westward.

"'That,' I interrupted, 'used to be called the 'far West.' Now it is getting to be the centre
of civilization. It goes ahead of the march of progress, while outstripping comprehension.
Upon this great expanse will spring up the materials for feeding every hungry and oppressed
citizen this side of sun-down. We can already raise anything,--from mountain of corn to a river
of pork,--on it; and as for the nigger crop, there's no end of that!'

"'And that yours, too, Mr. Smooth? Your fertile acres stretch from sea to sea.' Little John
interrupting, pointed all over the broad expanse below. He had no generalized ideas of America,
no distinct estimate of her productive and maintaining powers, and less knowledge of that machinery
so simply beautiful called her government. He never for once thought how this wide western
expanse was destined for the back-bone of the mightiest republic the world ever knew. People
without homes in the old world found happy homes there; civilization drove the buffalo from
his wonted haunt to give place to man; man himself yielded to the power of progress marching
westward. 'Now, Littlejohn.' said I, 'seeing that your people have but an imperfect geographical
knowledge of our country, let me tell you that yon black ridge you see afar down is the range
of rocky mountains. Colonel Fremont, a small man, slim enough to split the wind, but as tough
as Uncle Seth's whip-stock, climbed the loftiest peak, hung his hat on it, made the stars and
stripes on a rag--(in accordance with necessity and the go-ahead spirit of our country)--hung
them flying in a snowstorm, whistled Yankee Doodle three times and proclaimed them ours in
the name of the United States. All this was smooth and fair,--done in the spirit of our go-ahead,
all-accomplished diplomacy.'

"'Ah!' interrupted Littlejohn, 'your appetite for bits of territory runs monstrously that way.'

"'Yes!' I replied; 'but, John, give us your hand-on that point we may honestly embrace, and
declare ourselves now even two. You are as modest as an archbishop on salary day, and seldom
openly embrace territory; we prefer the frank style in all our adoptions. Let us not quarrel
over that--you love freedom, we love free government. Our political thoughts are moulded in
one die, though self-interest may vary them. To be mutually just toward each other, to live
on terms of friendship, and preserve that amity which is our bulwark, serves well that unity
of great principles which conserves and preserves our happiness. Yea! cursed be the hand, and
stagnate the breath raised against that peace and good-will which saves us from the monster
of war.' Here I grasped firmly and earnestly John's hand, and would fain he forgot the past
and thought only of the future. Looking down, 'that is New Mexico,' said I, 'a small corner
we just hooked on to our large establishment; we let all these little ones come into the same
nursery, where a generous mother watches their wants and provides for them as circumstances
demand. You, John, treat your colonial babies with singularly cold diet; in fact, you often
permit them to become stunted and ill-tempered for want of proper care in the home nursery.
You see, Texas was well nursed, and now her territory is fast filling up with the hardy sons
and daughters of your land; but, would they become new beings, and enjoy equal rights and equal
privileges, they must divest themselves of those servilities which in your country one class
unfortunately endeavors to enforce upon the other.' John bowed, but gave no further heed. Presently
we came to the Mormon settlement, and here he set to chaffing me about equal privileges. 'We
always had inconsistencies in our social system,' he said; 'just see how many wives these Mormons
have got, and what a nice thing they are making of equal rights. You beat us there, Smooth;
we Englishmen would never think of such sort of thing.' John looked very innocent and honest,
which, added to his dignity so naturally put on, was enough to make one's face square up into
a broad smile.

"'Permit me, John,' returned I: 'we tend well the great things; this Mormon evil will work
its own remedy! Westward the wave of empire rolls on; that's the word we speak as the world
looks on, grudgingly acknowledging its truth. We nurture small things that they may become
great; we make men feel themselves living equals, not inferiors; we put the lowly emigrant
in moral progress, and from his mental improvement reap the good harvest for all. By sinking
from men's minds that which tells them they are inferior, we gain greatness to our nation.
Simon Bendigo is made to feel that he is just as good as Blackwood Broadway; and Blackwood
is made sensible of the fact that he is no better in the body politic than any other man.'

"'Now, Smooth, just let me interrupt you in your train of Yankee logic,' said Littlejohn; 'the
safer a man feels his position the better is it for the nation; but the policy of equality
in men, though it might do for your young place, never would do for ours. Age and its attendant
glories demand different rules of guidance for society. All your fancy articles of freedom,
equality, and dignity among common people become doubtful, when subjected to long practice.
Our people, sir--take my word, not unworthily--are above considering such degrading innovations;
their grades of society are a sacred protection.'

"'Ah! those are English opinions, iron-bound. Your social institution is a perfect curiosity
shop, where everything old may be stored away unmolested, but upon which the man of plain sense
looks distrustfully, while sycophants waste contemplation in devising means for its preservation.
How few estimate the cost to a nation of maintaining those ancient inconsistencies so preserved
by governments of the old world!'

"'Never mind that, Mr. Smooth; these things are our own, and on us will the evil recoil. Be
not so earnest in condemning us, for the same sins you lay at our door are fast developing
themselves in your would-be fashionable society! Your society is fashionable without being
refined. Your aristocracy is a base imitation of our snobby, revelling in the heartless hording
of gold, and vaunting of bad English.' John looked down ere he finished, and seemed taking
a bird's-eye view of the great Utah territory. The Great Salt Lake I assured him was where
the venerable navigator Noah discharged his ballast of salt bags. As for the settlers on its
borders, they were the followers of Joe Smith, a veritable descendant of Ham, who never was
known for the good he did. That clever mouthpiece of English opinion, the Times, says they
will one day confuse and cause much trouble to the people of the United States; but this is
only the offspring of that one strong idea so characteristic of Mr. John Bull. Now these descendants
of the veritable Smith have a fantastic appreciation of many wives--a strange delusion in which
there cannot be much happiness; but beyond this they are a very harmless people, who, beyond
the sin of having many wives (and if this be a sin, it may be found at many a cleaner door!),
may be excused from much they do.

"'One word, if you please, Mr. Smooth!' suddenly interrupted John Littlejohn,--'it is in that
the dangerous element of your Yankee nature exists. Once beyond the neutralizing sphere of
public opinion, you go in for all sorts of vagaries, the more inconsistent with strict order
the better.' This crimination was certainly as fast as out of place; John was, indeed, too
ready to censure us without a forethought. We had given these deluded creatures a home in our
land; we had received them as citizens, though most of them were subjects of that land of freedom
where the chains fall to give place to flunkeyism; we had protected them in their wilderness
home--should we not be generous, and forgive their errors rather than punish or provoke the
delusion? Preferring more than one wife is not originally American: on that score Uncle John
cannot shake clean the skirts of his garment, nor proclaim his virtue as white as snow. Ere
this conversation ended we had arrived over California. Standing up I gave three long and strong
cheers that astonished and awoke John from the moody reflections into which he had fallen.
There the great El Dorado spread out in golden plains, teeming their rich treasures into Uncle
Sam's apron. Then, all bright and full of busy life, rose San Francisco, the stars and stripes
waving gracefully from a thousand temples. A thousand ships, like monsters sleeping, rode on
the calm bosom of her waters;--a busy throng of merchants filled her broad avenues; while houseless,
anxious, and never-despairing mortals, like swine at large, rooted her broad plains for gold.
A country, by the aid of that Anglo-Saxon energy which carries liberty and civilization into
the remotest corners of the world had risen, like a young giant, from a wilderness to a flourishing
State. Already was it a world of industry, every man working for the main chance. John could
not suppress an expression of gratification,--the sight was bright of promise; but, he added,
he much feared his countrymen would view it with a jealous eye, inasmuch as it might become
a means of deranging their beautiful organization of very fashionable society. We were made
up of an indescribable compound of common people and shopkeepers, he added, shrugging his shoulders
and changing slightly his position. He forgot that the absence of two of the greatest evils
a nation groans under had brought its blessings on our land,--Mr. Smooth refers to pauper lords,
and lords who make paupers. Great men there sprung from the commonest ranks to take the best
care of the nation. They discarded the expensive nonsense of maintaining dignity which polluted
independence: they respect the poor man's rights and brighten his prospects; they seek to promote
the good of all and fear not the few!

"Smooth, in humble solicitude for the reader's feelings, begs he will join him again while
proceeding on his course. Proceeding at a rapid rate we had well nigh lost sight of the El
Dorado, when John made a significant motion, which, being translated, meant that he would like
to take another glass of hot punch. To this proposition I readily consented; after which we
lighted two real Havanas, and rolled on as resolute as a flying Dutchman. It was with some
effort that John curbed his natural feelings. The punch, being placed in the right place, seemed
to create new thoughts. 'Queer fellows you are!' says he, to talk of freedom and equal rights.
'Why, you have got a human property market open, and more than three millions of souls up for
a bid. Mark my word, Mr. Smooth, the voice of sorrow for your human commerce will yet shake
the stability of your country. When slavery drives this country to sectional issues; when it
corrupts the federal power; when it serves the ambition of those who would drag us into foreign
broils; when patriotic men, North and South, ceased to come forward for the safety of a confederation,
then will sectionalism wage its angry wars against a noble edifice, whose foundation history
tells us must totter under the siege of strife.'

CHAPTER X.

SMOOTH PRESERVES YOUNG AMERICA'S RIGHTS.

"Day dawned through the gray mist of the East, as crowding the old institution, we sailed swiftly
through the air, over the calm Pacific. Soon San Francisco seemed but a speck in the dim distance.
On, on, on, we sped, until the land passed far out of sight behind. Our next business was to
hang in suspense our hopes, and await the welcome sight of land ahead. John strained his eyes,
and I did the same. Two hours passed, and the welcome moment arrived. 'I see it!' exclaimed
John--'Land oh! Land oh!' In a frenzy of joy he had well-nigh upset the barge and spilled us
out. Then he pointed his finger to an object in the distance that seemed like a lonely steeple
holding watch over midnight.

"'I see it!' I rejoined--'it's land--a new discovery: I'll call it Uncle Sam's Land.'

"'A little more moderate, if you please, Mr. Smooth,' retorted John, very politely. 'Seeing
it first, I claim the right of calling it Prince Albert's Island.' John was inclined to exchange
any amount of diplomatic notes, but I inquired, in a plain sort of way, what would be the good
it could confer on his country? to which he folded his arms, and replied curtly, that having
it was the thing sought for by his government. He might institute the Established Church on
it, and create any amount of Bishops, with good fat salaries--a thing all-desirable in the
eyes of the Saviour. We use these out-of-the-way places,' he continued, 'as a means of relief
to our over-crowded population and pensioners. We are heavy of pensioners, while our governors
are prone to create dependencies, which they do in consideration of the very large stock of
gentlemen always on hand, and most clamorous to be provided for at John's expense.'

"Having arrived over the spot, we found it an out-of-the-way island; upon which I suggested
that it would be better to drop the stars and stripes, with a note to the chief (if one there
existed) desiring he would put it up in the name of our great Republic. John, taking the initiative,
began to draw from his pocket a bit of bunting; but so methodical was he, that before he had
completed the process I took from my pocket a piece of red chalk, and on my white, Sunday nightcap
figured the Stars and Stripes. This done, I rolled it round my jacknife, and let it slide downward
ere John had his Union Jack ready. Down it went, like a thunderbolt chased by a streak of chain
lightning. 'Put that up, in the name of these United States' thought I,--'we'll take care of
that little bit of territory.'

"'Well,' interrupted John, looking as serious as a May moon, 'it's Yankee outright: I confess
the Union Jack can't keep up with the Stars and Stripes, nohow!'

"'Give us your hand, John,' said I, 'we'll be good-natured anyhow, seeing the positive proof
that we both belong to the same school. We are types of two very progressive and honorable
gentlemen, who, in a very modest sort of way, do pirate territory now and then, merely for
the sake of that inevitable result the extending good constitutional principles has. If our
small faults creep above the surface now and then, the influence they have is more than counterbalanced
by the good which may come. But, while we both affect a deal of modesty, and are ever criminating
and recriminating each other's acts, would it not be well to acknowledge the motive by which
both are moved to the same greedy propensities? Think it over, John; and at the same time let
us join--just to keep up the good-nature--in another glass of whiskey.' He said he had no objection,
so filling up, we drank to the very best sort of friendship, John winking and blinking, as
a squall just springing up began to increase.

"'That place--we were both a little too fast, John--is inhabited, as I'm a Christian. I'll
bet a cotton-mill it is!' I returned; and before the words were cold I saw a French sentinel
pacing as straight as a handspike in uniform, and as mutely savage as a scare-crow in a corn-field.
There he was, moustaches heavier nor a goat's smellers, a la old guard. Not a great way behind
his Saxon neighbors, he was watching No. I; just keeping an unoffending eye on Queen Tamerhamer's
little place. That tawny sovereign had insulted the French, but it was difficult for them to
define the nature of the offence. However, they claimed the right to mount guard, if only to
the end of getting a better foot-hold. Poor, hapless sovereign! she thought more of her tinsel
than the French did of her rights: thus the small difficulty. Frenchmen are clever fellows
in a small way, have very pliable ideas, which they can change with wondrous celerity; they
aim to do good, if, through their eccentricities, they too often fail. They are pleased to
consider themselves more refined than Americans, and yet they are more deficient in moral courage--that
moral courage which is made to conserve the good of the State. An Englishman's reserve, a Frenchman's
politeness, and a Yankee's go-aheadativeness,--all contending for the palm of honesty, form
the curious illustration of an eventful age.

"'Let us push on, John, across the calm ocean we shall soon arrive at Shanghai,' said I, confidentially.

"'Yes!' returns John, interrupting me, 'and I wish we could get a glimpse at Japan. Other nations
have supposed it impregnable; but Jonathan has found his way to the very gates of the Emperor's
palace, which he now knocks at with might and main. How fantastically he is dressed! Coal-basket
in one hand, and Bible in the other, he is cutting what may be properly termed figure number one.'

"'Certainly!' I rejoined, 'that is the figure to make safe our country's interests. Trade and
civilization is Jonathan's motto, While 'go-ahead' is the pass-word that has placed him where
he is--in power. Jonathan demolishes the aristocratic fantasy of dignity, and builds up the
greatness of a people with the simplicity of trade. We never had the most distant annexation
design on this little empire, but we want coals that our commerce may be fostered and protected
in its march over the world; and, if we chance to do a little trade while teaching an isolated
people their proper position, so much the better for the world and manifest destiny. The absurdity
of celestial pre-eminence must be removed from the minds of those who yet maintain it at the
expense of Christendom. If we can sell the Emperor's people Lowell cotton, at the same time
you are selling them Manchester stripes, where can be the objection? There can be no harm in
promoting that which has for its end the interchange of good feeling between the most distant
nations of earth: interchange of commerce infuses its spirit of energy, and its results are
for the good of the many. But those interchanges between progressive and non-progressive governments
should be conducted with caution and kindness, in order to preserve mutual respect. The double-sided
Dutchman prostrates himself before the barbarian whose commerce he seeks; but in doing so he
enlists contempt for his nation, without aiding to tear down that superciliousness of the barbarian
which is the greatest enemy of the world at large. Better were it he approached that monarch
on equal terms--to, it might be, compel him to reconcile his feelings to the force of manifest
destiny. Smooth will stand the odds that Commodore Perry gets the better of the Dutchman, comes
the independent over the Emperor, and makes a contract for the establishment of cotton factories
and churches all along his coast. 'Land! oh,' suddenly cried out John, at the top of his voice--'another
patch ahead.' In another moment he shrieked out:--'There you go--good by!' As I overreached
to sight the object far beneath, one of the stays broke, the balloon careened wildly, and making
a dashing circle high in the air, out we tumbled into the wild waste of space. Finding myself
going, I reckoned it was as well to keep up the philosophy, and remain cool. 'You're on the
passage, too--are you, John?' inquired I, finding him turning the most artistic somersaults
in his descent. 'Yes,' he replied, in a tone indicative of sorrow; 'blast you, and your Young
American policy. This is the natural result of soaring above a reasonable level.. Your manifest
destiny is finding its proper depths now!' John was terribly chagrined; he reckoned Young America
was a shade too fast. Flying, he said, was at best a mighty poor business; once again on firm
footing he would for ever look upon manifest destiny as the most aerial thing of the fast nineteenth
century.

CHAPTER XI.

MR. SMOOTH IS RIGHT SIDE UP.

"'This side up--with care!' said I, finding we must come down, and keeping an eye on John,
who looked as burly as a drifting ale pipe in a head sea, and whispered something about Young
America being an unpleasant companion to sail the air with. Feeling how much better it was
to be good-natured, I took the matter mathematically, trusting to the best. To be always right
end up is a principle never to be lost sight of. There was land below us, firm and frowning;
which, before we knew where we were, we had slipped into, like preserved meat, up to our arm-pits.
Poor John made an awful blubbering; seeing which, I told him to be good-natured, and at the
same time inquired if he had worked up his whereabouts on the way down.

"'A pretty affair this!' said he, angrily. 'Here, on a desolate island, surrounded by a broad
ocean, what chance is there for us to save ourselves, or ever again make the confines of civilization?
Despondency knows no joking; and, in such a perplexity, questions about reckoning are out of
place. You may make light of it, Mr. Smooth; but, if you please, let us think of some way to
deliver ourselves,' grumbled John, sweating, puffing, and blowing. Finally, he said he wished
the old gentleman with the horns had made a previous demand on him, inasmuch as it would have
saved him the trouble of dying on so desolate a spot, which to him seemed the sorest grievance
of all.

"'You groan over it some, don't you, old fellow? Reckon how you hain't seen a Yankee try his
ingenuity. Just puff a spell, until Mr. Smooth calmly studies a little philosophy, which is
a mighty good thing in cases of emergency like this,' I remarked in reply, getting my ideas
into a fix, in order to bring out the best point of operation. Working myself out in a cool
sort of way, I seized hold of him by the shoulders, and yanked him straight out, like a log
from a marsh slough. 'Now, take it all for the best, John,' I rejoined encouragingly, going
to work and putting up a liberty pole, to which I tacked the stars and stripes, while John
was grumbling, growling, and methodizing about saving himself. This done on behalf of my country,
and Young America more particularly, I set about erecting a hut, wherein we could both turn
in for the night. With me it was sink the desponding and keep up a stiff spring of hope; but
when bed-time came, John made a great fuss about his night-cap and dressing-gown, and slippers,--as
if the comforts of home were inseparable. Then he made a crooked face about his bed, while
I laughed at him for his whims, his fancies, and his dogged pedantries. However, morning found
him better-natured, and taking advantage of the opportunity, we held a consultation upon what
was best to be done. That we were on an uninhabited island not a doubt existed: nor had any
son of civilized man ever visited it before: not so much of civilization as a gallows was there
to be seen anywhere, although there were visible in the distance many mountains, and plains,
and valleys, and lakes swarming with fish. With these a people might have flourished, while
the soil was pregnant of richness, ready to bring forth corn, rice, tobacco, and cotton. I
was grieved that such a spot should lie wasting; all it wanted was a few sons of New England
to make its resources of great commercial value. A ponderous mountain rose nearly to the sky,
distant some two days' journey, in the west. After breakfasting on wild fruit (of which there
was a great abundance) and limpid water, we set out for it, making a straight line through
the forest; but before reaching the summit, and after three days' scrubbing, we discovered
smoke curling gently upward here and there in the clear blue atmosphere. 'Lord bless ye, John!'
I exclaimed, halting suddenly, 'there is living critters here, as I'm a Down-easter.'

"'I see 'um moving!' he rejoined, nervously surveying the spot. And in another hour we were
in the midst of a tribe of savages, swarthy and of vicious appearance. Such yelling, hallooing,
jumping, and cutting wild antics, you never saw before, nor could pen describe. Nobody could
have understood their chattering, which was a species of growl and shortly accented muttering.
Forsooth! it was as unintelligible as that language so generally diffused through diplomatic
notes and protocols. Now hideous squaws ran one way, young children another. Dogs and cats
brought up the rear, their music combining in most ungrateful medley. John's fears became excited
as he saw the chiefs rushing furiously onward in the van. 'What shall we do?' said he; 'they
will exterminate us.' I said we had better summon all our amiability and endeavor to engraft
ourselves in their good graces. Young America would talk Yankee to them. To this John gave
ready consent. I was glad to see that for once he had laid aside his dignity and superciliousness:
it was freely acknowledging that Uncle Sam was somebody--that he could, in his plain straightforward
way do clever things. Therefore, to initiate my diplomacy I drew forth the Stars and Stripes,
and held them before a monster chief of some seven feet in stature, who had almost reached
us, making savage grimaces. Soon he stood before us, John commenced to bow with all his politeness,
and meekly doffing off his hat, began a speech with:--'Your sublime majesty--' 'Stop that,
John!' I exclaimed firmly, interrupting him. Here I stepped in, and extended my hand to the
savage. 'My name, stranger,' I continued 'is Commissioner Solomon Smooth--at home they call
me General Smooth. Now, seeing that I am sent by our patriotic President (a very small man
by the way, but immeasurably large when dealing in the mere language of war) whose determination
that talent of a truly American character shall shine abroad has been fully appreciated by
the nations honored with his promising plenipotentiaries, Mr. Pierce has deputed me to square
the world in general, and manifest destiny in particular.' The savage at first exhibited signs
of concern, but finally summoned to his aid a salutation of welcome, and at the same time grasped
my hand warmly and earnestly. Communicating with him by signs was not the most agreeable office:
but when there is a point to be gained energy is always well spent. I would enlighten him upon
matters connected with our government, while ascertaining his ideas of annexation: this the
language of signs prevented my doing. I regretted this exceedingly, inasmuch as it compelled
me to forego the comparison I contemplated making between his and those known ideas entertained
by General Pierce himself. Enough, however, was drawn from the signs to prove a striking coincidence.
'Never bin to Washington--I reckon?' I inquired assuming the independent, as I gave my hat
an easy set on the windward side of my head. He shook his head, and croaked out something no
one could understand. 'Great place!' rejoined I--'ought to come over and see it, old fellow.'
I affectionately placed my arm about his neck, as he shook his head a second time; the small
kindness had made us good friends. Motioning John to him, he grasped our hands, led us to his
camp, called a council of his people, who said much it was impossible for us to understand.
Indeed, they set up a conflict of sound more dinning than the roar of waters. Instinctively
hospitable, when dinner-time came they motioned us to sit and partake of a piping dish of snakes'
heads and fried beetles, of which choice delicacies the old chief was sorely grieved that we
ate but little. Now and then he would spread his hands, as if to say--why not eat of what I
give you? I was not long in becoming acquainted with our new acquaintance; nor did I fail to
shock the modesty of our worthy friend John, who said he could not view with indifference the
celerity with which I walked into things which should be touched only with the dignity of national
character.

"'Now stranger,' continued I, addressing myself good-naturedly to the chief; 'seeing you are
sovereign of this remote but lovely country--and that yours is manifestly an empire--suppose
we try a little trade. Smooth is a free-and-easy citizen of the United States--can meet you
at and be friendly over anything. My friend here,' (I pointed to John who seemed in an offish
mood) 'is a Britisher, an honest member of that very ancient and gallant family which now views
us, too often for that spirit which should make us friends, as a beardless upstart; John, though
extremely vain, is not a bad fellow, and at times improves on acquaintance. If his proclivities
for getting into an hole (like a toad in a shower) are at times too strongly manifested, who
so ungenerous as not to forgive the hereditary character of the disease?'

"'Umph! umph! whew!' exclaimed the chief, as he spread his hands and contorted his face. We
could not understand him; pained were we that we could not. He felt keenly the misfortune,
shook his head in sorrow; and murmured, as if a world separated his thoughts and ours. Modestly,
John touched me on the shoulder, and whispered:--'S'pose we call this distant Britain? you
can have the next discovery. I'll proclaim it in the name of my sovereign--it will be quite
right;' John was inclined to do the very honorable on the sly; but, being of opinion that he
had appropriated to himself enough in that sort of way, I interposed a decided objection. 'Governor!'
I retorted, taking the chief by the hand--'if a good speculation you would make, annex this
little empire of yours to our great Republic. Manifest destiny will make you one of us; but
don't wait for that. Hook on while the link is hot--you'll find it a good speculation. Young
America will put your nation through a process of regenerating: he will make steam civilize
when everything else fails; he will send his Transit Company to take possession of the government.
We seek not, like John to conquer--we colonize. You may be one of us; by accepting Young America's
offering you may be as independent as a colored preacher on Sunday.' The chief gazed in bewilderment--his
people muttered still more.

"John now became furious of anger. 'We, too,' he interposed, 'colonize. Say you will come under
the protection and acknowledged allegiance to our Queen, and yours shall be a scarlet coat,
a cocked hat, and a great broadsword wherewith to fight your way in the world.' The chief moved
his head doubtingly, as his body vibrated from head to foot. What strange opinions invaded
his thoughts! He placed his broad hard hands gently on our heads, drew us lovingly to him,
and smiled. In that smile was that which said we were both good and honest, but needed much
watching. We were, indeed, good specimens of our separate nations, but the free-and-easy seemed
most acceptable to the savage. 'Governor!' I continued to address the chief as I turned to
John, 'beware of his fascinating coat of scarlet. Such things may charm the little; sensible
men know their worthlessness. Hang out the star-spangled banner, espouse popular rights; let
the rest of mankind know you belong to a nation whose destiny is the overthrow of kings and
kingcraft on one continent at least.' Still, mutely the savage listened. There was no getting
English into his head; hence I saw the necessity of gaining my ends by signs and motions, after
the fashion of our modern diplomacy. Say what you will, mute diplomacy is not without its effect.
At it I went, in a style that put French dancing entirely into the shade.

"'Your Yankee figuring won't play on his head, Smooth,' spoke Littlejohn, in a tantalizing
sort of vein. 'He is less a fool than you take him for.'

"I calmly intimated that he might be right, but inquired if he ever knew a Yankee out-yankeed?
John folded his arms, and got his face well adjusted within the circle of his ample shirt-collar,
which he had preserved unruffled during his fall. Suddenly I remembered that in my pocket was
a handbill of Uncle Obadiah's clock factory, upon which was broadly emblazoned a time-piece
of modern fashion. Its effect was electric. No sooner was it displayed than the barbarian's
eye glowed with anxiety; the gaudy picture carried his heart and soul captive to Uncle Sam.
In his ecstacy he threw his arms about me, hugged me and fawned me, and in his joy was well
nigh devouring me. Poor John stood outdone--dumfounded. The sight was characteristic.

"'Principles, in these days of development,' mumbled John, as with the fingers of his right
hand he stroked his chin, 'I admit give way to circumstances. To say a difficulty exists you
Yankees cannot surmount--to say an invention is known you cannot improve and apply; to say
a remote colony exists you cannot people and govern, is a calumny gross indeed. If they fail
to gain the end they aim at by one movement they will resort to another more bold--success
must follow.' John grudgingly made the admission. Had he possessed the forethought to discover
how the point was likely to turn he would have provided himself with the picture of a business-like
ambassador proceeding to a great convention with only thirty-two females in his train, as might
have been seen at Vienna very recently; or, better yet, the picture of a duke's flunkey, which,
being the more ridiculous of the two, would to the savage have proved the greater attraction.
But John turned coldly and methodically from the subject. His ancestors had made so many sovereigns!
he said. Nothing to be gained, his thoughts were turned now to the means of getting away from
the savages. Not another day would he stay; I was at liberty to start any amount of young Republics.
Apprehending difficulty from his state of excitement I counselled his better nature, and brought
to the rescue the quiet and cheerful of his curious composition. It was the only way to surmount
a great difficulty. Preserving, then, the calm of a philosopher, I set about inventing something
to take us from thence, to a more congenial land. Smooth, with progress in his head and grasp
in his fingers, can, upon the same principle that he can start something to please our nation,
create some thought for the relief of two distressed individuals. One half the failures in
the world are the result of the mind magnifying the undertaking into an impossibility, instead
of setting about it fresh and vigorous--making a determination to achieve the object. The American
nature has become bold of adventure, and one of its greatest characteristics is, never to stand
in doubt when an experiment is to be tried.

"'Yes, but, Smooth!' he interrupted, 'you don't consider that we British officials abroad are
placed in a very unpleasant position. Our acts being at all times liable to disapproval at
the Foreign Office, we too frequently remain passive for want of faith at home and confidence
in ourselves. The spirit of the Foreign Office is like a weathercock on wings; we are a mere
servilage to the uncertain changes and caprices of those who may chance to be its Chief.'

"'By that, I understand you know not how to act; and to avoid being wrong you remain inactive,
that course being likely to receive the most praise. My good fellow, lesson from Young America,--act
boldly, take the responsibility on your own shoulders, and abide the consequences. Be an independent
citizen,--let your acts be your country's and your own;--and whatever the result may be, meet
it manfully, that moral courage may strengthen your cause. Now, then, let us set about building
a canoe; let us imagine we can do a prodigy and it shall be done!' At this John's spirit became
restored.

"We went to work in right good earnest, and, with necessity for an incentive, found ourselves
at the expiration of three days master of a fine canoe, with which we drew down the astonishment
of the natives. Two days more and we bid them a touching farewell, promised to call and see
them again, bring cotton, cloth and sundry Yankee notions, with which to start a trade between
them and the people of Salem, Massachusetts. Supplied with fish and porkmonhunter, a savory
dish prepared by the natives, we set sail for Shanghai, I being skipper of the craft, and John
mate. Nothing should seem to one's mind too simple to learn, and I learned to navigate by what
the sailors in times past called the rule of thumb: the rule now came nicely into play. Energy
is the master of difficulties; the application of it is all-necessary when they present themselves.
Adhering to this maxim I took the helm, laid down the course, and steered for Shanghai, while
John kept a close watch on the stars. At times he would work lunars in his head, as did the
Macedonians. Laughable as it may seem, John was just credulous enough to think that savages
in these out-of-the-way parts of the world were honored with a north star, and amused himself
with speculations on its identity. As luck will now and then favor the unfortunate, so we,
after a voyage in which were any amount of storms and hair-breadth escapes, which it will be
needless to describe here, arrived at the expiration of the tenth day safely at Shanghai. To
know precisely where one is, and feel safe on terra-firma after a tempestuous voyage, makes
the heart leap with joy--and with joy leaped mine.

CHAPTER XII.

MR. SMOOTH MAKES A FEW REFLECTIONS.

"Shanghai seemed a place of adventures and uncertain speculations; its people were a medley
of all sorts of human kind badly propounded. Perhaps I should except that numerous gentry called
fleas, so averse to travellers that they at once set about biting them out of the town. Two
days in Shanghai proved quite enough. So, viewing it advisable, we packed up our alls, and
on foot shaped our course for Scinde, a territory rather out of the way and very remotely situated.
Littlejohn, still my companion, said his honorable Governor got possession of it in a very
dignified sort of way; nevertheless, he thought it advisable that as little as possible be
said about the process. The truth was, it was not distinctly known what the rest of mankind
said about it.

"After much journeying and hardship, we found ourselves in the heart of Scinde, which looked
desolate enough to have been under any other than British rule:--we speak merely for the honor
of British rule! 'This, Uncle John's, too?' I inquired, touching John on the shoulder.

"'Beg your pardon!' he returned, with affected indifference.

"'Does Britannia rule this territory?' I reiterated.

"'Well,' he rejoins, hesitatingly, 'as to that--Smooth, give us yer hand--there is something
to be considered; we believe in dispensing blessings to mankind; and that all men, great and
small, may have their share, we aim to infuse our principles, and make them understood throughout
the world. It's all for humanity and the good of Christianity; but, you see, we have for a
long time tried to make these foolish Princes comprehend the benefits resulting therefrom without
success, and were really forced to harsh measures. We were sorry it was so, but, being the
case, we, as a national sequence, had to resort to conquering. Now, though it may not be always
necessary to apply the principle of conquering to do good, it follows as a rule that good must
result where the conqueror is a Christian power, whose only motive is progress and civilization
for the good of all. The Anglo-Saxon teaches the barbarian to know himself; and when he has
done this he endeavors to infuse principles of trade and constitutional government into his
mind; but not daring to leave him to himself, he reluctantly, nevertheless, is compelled to
subject him to his rule. I frankly admit we refrain from doing these manifest destiny things,
as you call them, with the same boldness characterized in your proceedings with Mexico. Our
East India Company may not be the very best institution in the world for governing purposes,
for it is dangerous to invest a trading compact with governing powers, inasmuch as selfish
interests will conserve to keep the power of the governing superior to the best interests of
the governed, even though they be in the majority; but the Company is a great machine for civilizing
and keeping civilized, that trade may not lose its influence. It teaches these poor devils
of natives to talk English, and, sir, can you calculate what a blessing that will be when it
comes into general use? By and by we will be enabled to turn this vast empire into one field
teeming with the richest produce.'

"'All right,' said I, interrupting his sentence: 'we will yet agree on something. In the meantime,
let me inquire, John, why you did not add--what a blessing it would be did they but understand
the English! Your modesty and their insane bigotry furnish a strange group of nondescript governments,
which Uncle John covetously fathers, though they be the illegal issues of that very honorable
dredging machine, whose grapnels, always extended, are for ever bringing up something new.
In truth, this company so strong of power, which it sways on the penny-wise principle, and
so pampered by royalty, is ever troubling honest Uncle John with its unfortunate affairs.'

"'It never will do to talk in that kind of way, Smooth; 'twill never do! When you Yankees make
grave charges, you forget to clothe them with style and dignity: they are things of much importance
in government matters, and then it never comes to much for small men to prate against powerful
bodies pursuing formidable enterprises.'

"'Listen, John!' I retorted, laying my right hand good-naturedly on his left shoulder, 'that
which takes from a country without previously spreading nourishment to sustain it is a dredging
machine, and will sooner or later dry up its resources. It takes out, but forgets to put in,
thinking only of the present, while the future invites an enlightened policy to nurture and
bring out its richer resources.' But with these small misdemeanors we would not directly charge
Uncle John, who is at times as honorable as he is dogged; but he, fathered as he is with the
responsibility, is seriously to blame for this neglect. Viewing these things in their proper
light, John and Jonathan, stimulated by the same virtuous inclinations, and weighing well their
distinctive prowess, should be careful not to offend by petty means: how much better to encourage
friendly relations, than wound a sensitive but worthy national pride! Promising to criminate
after this fashion so much in vogue no more, we left the desolate Scinde, continued our way
across an immense waste, where might have risen up one of the mightiest and most fertile empires.
An enlightened policy only was wanted. The people were ignorant of their power and resources:
John had conquered, and viewed it well to keep them so. His East India dredge did not dissent
to this verdict. My friend John thought the acquisition well approved. But the people, he said,
were worthless; they added superstition to ignorance and fierceness, and obstinately opposed
the bettering their condition. 'Without attempting to burden your credulity, Jonathan,' interpolated
John, 'the truth is, we well understood the nature of this people, and having failed to conciliate
them in one way betook ourselves to another, and in our characteristic style chastised them
into submission.' John spoke with great seriousness, never for a moment lessening his air of
dignity. Indeed, it embodied and acknowledged serious mode of docilizing a people: how much
real attachment between the conqueror and conquered must follow this system we leave the reader
to contemplate. The honorable Mr. John, notwithstanding, had a very circuitous way of confessing
the fact of having taken into his family, by this arbitrary system of wedlock, no end of people;
still he accused Jonathan of using his soft-sawder for the same purpose.

"Journeying a few days through a country rich of soil and rivers turned to no account, we reached
a dominion called the Punjaub, which John said had limits he knew not where, and was his, too.
He acquired it by the same bold and very honorable stroke of policy. The chiefs, he said, kept
up a continued jarring among themselves; such being fatal to their best interests, he, as a
friend, merely stepped in to put an end to their unprofitable disputes.

"As I have before told the reader, this honorable individual, who sensitively declared nothing
could make him less than a gentleman, never failed to consider himself a model of forbearance,
but in the fulness of his generous soul, having conquered, he rather preferred to remain conqueror.
In the Punjaub John had left his mark, but nothing to praise.

"Despairing of finding something to praise in the Punjaub we passed over into Pegua--John's
also. Got by the same bold stroke of policy--a few variations excepted! It was rather a fascinating
piece of territory, to the Rajah of which he had several times offered protection, after the
manner of that protectorate of two centuries, so vauntingly claimed over the Mosquitoes. The
barbarian as often rejected it. This, John could not submit to: humanity demanded he should
accept the kind proffer. And to serve the ends of humanity did John hasten to the Rajah's palace
one Commodore Lambert--a pugnacious seafaring diplomatist, known for his love of the yard-arm
law. The Commodore would hold a parley with the Rajah; the Rajah, whose dignity was first to
be consulted, was too slow in preparing his palace. The Commodore, erratic of temper, was at
times accustomed to growl for his own amusement; he now growled for the amusement of his countrymen.
The result was natural. In the littleness of his vanity did the Rajah imagine himself a very
great man. He was important of those small follies which prove the great misfortunes of old
nations. The Commodore must wait in the sun, with becoming respect for his dignity. But the
seafaring diplomatist esteemed the importance of his cloth above all barbarian considerations,
hence decided himself insulted. As patience is essential to the success of diplomacy, so the
Rajah deemed it expedient to test how far that quality was possessed by the Commodore, whom
he permitted to wait two hours in a vertical sun. This was too much for the patience of any
respectable gentleman, and only resulted in exciting the petulance of the before-named sea-going
Ambassador, who just demolished a few out-of-the-way towns, and pocketed the kingdom for his
Queen. From this it will be seen (we make no allowance for John's acceptance of the issue)
that the vanity of a Rajah and the petulance of a Commodore cost a kingdom. Littlejohn said
this was the way Pegua slipt, almost unconsciously, into the possession of his family. The
process was of itself so innocent! Language to praise it sufficiently John could not find.
Diplomacy having large claims on the observance of etiquette, cannot permit insults to go unpunished,
said he. The Commodore, too, was in diplomacy a fast sort of man, and could not be excited
to anger without a consideration--which said consideration was no other than that the aforesaid
Rajah just hand over the kingdom. Spunky boys are Uncle John and Cousin Jonathan! To that end
the Commodore pitched into the Rajah, thrashed him, bagged his dominions, and would as little
as possible were said about it. Here, then, it was clearly shown that what John charged Jonathan
with was but a facsimile of the crimes so profusely spread at his own door. Great governments
are at best thieves; and to claim a superiority of modesty in acquiring dominion is poor moonshine
badly spent. With these contemplations we agreed not to quarrel, but continue our journey over
Turkey homeward.

"Difficult is it for a man travelling in a country where everything seems crooked, to keep
up straight ideas. I have said crooked, for where nature has been most profuse in her blessings,
and no signs of the iron sinews of progress are seen; where no Mississippi steamboats move
on in busy occupation, opening up the resources of a country; where no bright villages hold
to light the charms of hardy industry; where the favored few gather the fruits of the husbandman's
energy--something must indeed be crooked. Through countries enamelled of nature's best offerings,
as fine as ever spread out before the eye of man, we travelled; but all seemed wasting away
in the inertness of bad government. A narrow policy had spread weeds where fruitful vines would
have hung blessings for mankind. Things called men revelled in what to them seemed luxury,
but in poverty and wretchedness a people struggled; men walked to and fro in tattered garments,
colored like unto their moral and physical degradation. But they heeded it not, and were careless
because no one cared for them. There is no slavery so abhorrent as that of the menial who has
no thought beyond the narrow sphere of his servitude, and the little pleasure which his light
heart may transitorily enjoy. Here men saw no vitality in the hand that ruled: hence they maudled
through that deadening scum of servile life that tramples better things beneath its feet.

"From the fertile bottoms of the Himalayas to the Indian ocean on one side, and from the Burmese
boundary to wherever British rule extended on the other, there spread out the same sickly prospect.
There, resigned, stood outlined the same apathy of spirit, the same result of misgovernment--the
same soul-degrading influences; the same rebuking spectacle; the result of the same wealth-dredging
principles practiced by a few. Cotton, corn, and sugar, would have repaid the hand of the husbandman
tenfold, nature having given it germ for that purpose; but jungle grew in their stead, while
bad government rioted in its follies. Nationality had no soul, energy no lifesprings, progress
no railroads to move onward. The honorable John, having conquered, and very modestly enthroned
himself, was strong to maintain his centralizing power, from which point he would make effectual
his blighting policy. Notwithstanding this, John would have us believe him world-wide in his
kindness, desire his power made known to mankind in general, and stood ever ready to have his
philanthropy and his tears spent upon the sorrows of the American slave. Were they not more
needed in his own Indian dominions? A peasant clothed in rags picks his little spot of sickly
cotton as it falls from the bowl; but how valueless is it to the poor wretch ignorant of the
first principles of trade! Yet, instead of providing for his improvement, this honorable dredging
machine which so disgracefully governs a people flatters him into contentment with promises
it never intended to fill. With his bag of cotton gathered, the humble subject is pointed to
a path through a country infested by dangerous bands, over which he may seek a market some
hundred miles distant. In its crude state he roughs it, and sweats it, puts it through--without
a gin to give it market value!--all the various processes of damaging during the transit, and
is surprised that India, with the best soil and climate in the world for such an object, cannot
raise a good and sufficient supply of the raw material. What a look of pity the wretch might
bestow upon the board of directors, sitting in pompous conclave in Leadenhall street! Happy
is he, Jonathan, who, contented, knows not the things at his hand by which his own condition
may be bettered. And how blind is that rule, which, having the power to do good, contents itself
with dragging eagerly away the first compensation. The penalty of the crime of not developing
what is given us by nature for a nation's good is the sacrifice of a people's happiness. My
friend John reluctantly acknowledged the delinquency. Mark the contrast! Had this all-bountiful
India been ours, a more liberal policy would have produced results widely different. No oligarch
could have sacrificed it to its own avarice; associations would have sprung up for developing
industry; a policy to make the resources of the state serve general interests would have been
established, and the good of the many had been kept in view. Cotton-growing, and tobacco-planting,
and rice-cultivating, had been encouraged and fostered. Those rich alluvial bottoms, so fertile
and yet so uncultivated, had given out their rich harvests to some purpose--untaxed prosperity
would have rewarded the hand of the hardy husbandman. India would then, besides proving herself
the greatest exporting empire in the world, have clothed, fed and made happy her benighted
millions.

"Had India been ours, Yankee enterprise had traversed it with plank roads; Yankee enterprise
had laid down strap railroads until better ones had resulted from profits; Yankee energy had
invented a species of Mississippi steamboat, wherewith to navigate its narrow water-courses
to their source, and there develope the capabilities of the country. Yes, Yankee ingenuity
had had a steamboat where there was scarce water for a duck to swim. But why pain the feelings
with recapitulations like these? Its resources are of little value when government interposes
a dogged obstinacy to improvements; nor is it much better where a people seem at a loss to
know whose business it is to give out the incentive. So long as this state of things lasts
will Cotton remain king, and Uncle John be its most servile and dependent subject. It matters
little that his empire is so beautifully adapted to its cultivation. He must shake off his
love of those very ancient and effeminating systems of his, and adopt the modern policy of
improving and nourishing industry.

"John admitted things were not conducted on the most approved principle; but as the business
belonged to the old gentleman, who was very testy in the exercise of his power, he was at a
loss to conceive what we had to do with it. That became very easy to explain; for whereas Young
America claims a right to dictate principles that will aid in working out manifest destiny,
so also does he take upon himself the right of pointing out the evil of all political misgovernment
that falls under his notice. It was not the honorable manner in which a government acquired
new territory or incorporated weak provinces, that Mr. Smooth had to deal with, but the dishonorable
government that followed. Wherever waste and misery meet the eye of an energetic man, who discovers
the palpable cause at the door of wrong-headed government, his natural feelings revolt against
the powers that be; and to an American, trained in the New England school of universal industry,
the desolation seems calling upon him to take the initiative of working out its improvement.

"With me, a feeling, inspired by the best of motives, prompted the advancing some rules of
improvement; but, conscious of Uncle John's obstinacy to being instructed by youth, and with
a just sense of the obstacles my tattered garments would present, the inclination failed. Indeed,
John, as dogged as he is old in experience, views his son Jonathan as a bold, reckless, and
discontented fellow, whose notions of progress he would receive with the same cautious hand
he would his, to him, preposterous principles of republicanism. He, while entertaining some
good feeling for us, hath an inert prejudice which views us as levellers, always reforming
or abusing reforms. Swelled, he says, by large notions of ourselves, generous in our expectations,
and never ceasing in our love of excitements until we are safely landed in the grave, we are
become dangerous to the great family compact. In the devil's department, says John, your Young
America would prove his energetic nature by devising some new arrangement, addition, or modification
of that gentleman's sin-roasting machinery. Failing in that, he would plan some enterprise,
propose some joint-account operation with Mr. Jones, and content himself with 'truck-and-dicker,'
or charcoal, for his half of the spoils. In heaven, your Young American would be discontented,
unless he were devising some improvement, getting up spiritual intrigues, or laying the foundation
of some new species of glory--perhaps claiming a right to entire possession.

"'You must understand, Mr. Smooth,' said John, 'we have long been meditating a new policy for
this great and fertile empire, now so desolate; but we pursue ends most patiently, letting
our thoughts have the benefit of time, before reducing them to practice. Manchester wants cotton--wants
it free-grown--that she may relieve herself from the yoke of King Slavery; but she cannot yet
solve the problem by which the throbbings of her manufacturing philanthropy may be set at rest.
She thinks long and strong of it, but there it rests--and there's the rub. John is blind, and
Cotton is king.'

"'With us it would present no rub; give us the means, as spread out to your hands, and the
problem we would solve while you were pondering over its intricacy. We would pay good premiums
to practical overseers of cotton plantations in Georgia and Alabama, who, with the inducement
offered, would come as instructors--cotton-growing requires the application of the nicest agricultural
science--in the art of cultivating the sensitive plant. And to encourage private enterprise
we would offer bounties for the largest amount of best quality produced on the smallest space.
By government encouraging the best staple, a rivalry would spring up which could not fail to
produce much good; it would open up a spirited system of planting, as well as that enlarged
intercommunication of commerce which must follow.' Let me take leave of this subject!

"From India we sojourned across the great desert, meeting in succession the white-robed Arab,
the savage Kurd, the docile Yeeside, and the melancholy Turk. John said we must have a staff,
and a score of guides, and no end of menials, and must put on the dignity, or it would not
be safe, especially now that Turks and Russians were at war. Mr. Smooth took exceptions to
this ruling, preferring to assume the go-ahead, and test the virtue of a hard front, the effects
of which he was quite sure would not be entirely lost even among the Arabs. And then, if the
Turks and Russians were again at war about holy places--places for which a deal of human blood
had been spilt for the mere gratification of a very unholy ambition--Mr. Smooth, on behalf
of Young America, might make a dollar or two by the way of proposing a very christian plan
for settling the stubborn intricacy. With this best of all motives in view, I left John in
the desert, where he said he expected to do some good business, and, what was better, get some
good dinners. So, bidding him godspeed, I made straight headway for the point where the pious
difficulty had resulted in so much iniquitous blood-shedding.

"The fact is, Old Uncle John was at first inclined to make rather spare use of bear's grease
to dress his Turkey, an unhealthy bird, scarcely possessing fat enough to cook himself; but,
being rather doubtful of his own culinary efficiency, had consented to receive a French cook
into the family: and, fearing there might yet be a deficiency, the ever-credulous old dotard
was making good-natured overtures to one Joseph of Hapsburg,--never trustworthy, and always
known to act as circumstances changed interests,--who said there was no knowing what time he
would be ready to turn his attention to such purposes. Joseph, however, was never in his life
so willing to play open and shut with John, at the same time giving Nicholas that cunning wink
so well understood in all respectable family circles. This game Joseph played, and played,
and played, until the credulity of old John seemed like a cooked fish in a pot of porridge.
The fact must be confessed that Joseph was so politically dishonest that to be for once honest
was tantamount to a great victory over his traditional immorality. Knowing right well the traits
of character this Joseph possessed, Jonathan would at short notice lend a willing hand to thrash
other morals into his system. However, with a view of leaving this point to be settled by more
interested parties, Smooth proceeded to the holy places, where, he regrets to say, he shuddered
at the thought of how much human slaughtering it had been the scene--all done for holy causes.
Let an impious world forgive those Little Ones who in all ages have lent their aid to stimulate
the worst passions!

"As for Turkey, I, Smooth, would make no insinuations against that lovely but ill-governed
country. Muslamism was dying by its own hand; it had shocked a world with its persecutions;
it had scoffed at virtue, and was sinking down into its own deluge of vice. The independence
of Turkey! Now, Mr. Smooth made no boast of his common-sense, but to such as he had it was
a question whether the Turk, instead of exhibiting so fanatical a love for fighting, had not
better betake himself to reconstructing and reforming his internal government, and by that
means save himself from a continual jarring with nations sensitive of the rights of their subjects.
Should this be thought an employment too inferior, he might employ himself with a plan for
enforcing a more strict respect for the rights and feelings of the christian population under
his political rule. It would not be incompatible with his own best interests, for it is unnatural
that an inferior govern a superior race. Flatterers, and even savans, may find apologies in
the changes fortune has been pleased to make in the affairs of a state; but here so strong
are the evidences of bad government that only lame excuses can be offered for the finest country
the sun shines on groaning in poverty and distress. The independence of Turkey!

"There could be no doubt that the Bear had long cherished a serious inclination to do for the
Turkey, the character of whose independence he well understood. He would make fertile use of
its apathy. The Bear would cook the Turkey with his own grease--albeit, he found him a sick
man, but had no objection to the meal. If, however, he had lain his paws too rudely upon the
patient, diplomatic donkeyism made the case still more dangerous. Mr. Smooth begs the reader's
pardon for using the term 'diplomatic donkeyism;' but indeed the only difference he has yet
been capable of detecting between the conclave which drew upon the nations of Europe so much
carnal warfare and the assinine species is, that the former have soft heads in place of ears.
These diplomatic donkeys, ever ready to keep the world apprised of their own greatness, and
without the slightest objection to getting up an unnecessary number of excitements for its
benefit, betook themselves to playing drafts, in which game they made such an innumerable quantity
of wrong moves, that they lost themselves on the board. The world strove to respect the body,
but having never before been perplexed with such polite players, the effort was indeed a task.
With regard to their game of drafts, such was the fear of the Bear exhibited by the movers
that no one dare remove him boldly from the King row, lest it leave an opening he was but too
ready to take advantage of; nor did they want to wound the Turkey by any incautious move whereby
the Bear might unhesitatingly swallow him: so they pushed and shoved until they found themselves
in a sort of baby-jumper, in which they could be nursed to sleep while the war they had so
innocently kindled waged fierce and bloody. In fact, they themselves got the Bear so far into
the crockery shop that no one could get him out without smashing to pieces the whole establishment.

"Everywhere in Turkey they were preparing for war; and so Mr. Smooth, as soon as he reached
Constantinople, where everybody seemed surprised to see such a description of citizen, called
a meeting of those whose feelings were so finely up in fighting trim, to whom he stated in
most emphatic language that, inasmuch as Turkey had ennobled herself by her noble defence of
Kossuth, whose asylum in her domain was held sacred at the price of the kingdom, he had great
respect for her, but could not think of fighting. But they didn't seem to understand square
Yankee talk; the consequence of which, in Mr. Smooth's opinion, would be the Bear getting his
cubs in motion, to do some first-rate fighting. In this fighting Mr. Smooth would not have
the least objection to taking a hand, provided always that there was some coin to be made at
it. However, before entering upon the fighting business, Mr. Smooth would especially stipulate
that all Austrian notes and Prussian protocols be used up in a bonfire, Austria be turned adrift
as an inconsistent huckster without principles, the diplomatic donkeys be driven into the Danube,
and all constitutional governments bound by arbitrary yokes set free. In that case freedom
and constitutionalism would fight its own battles and constitutionalism would bid defiance
to Czarism. When the battle of liberty against barbarism became the issue, then Young America
would join with a bounding heart, a glowing soul, and a firm hand. We can whip all creation,
build more churches, blow up more steamboats, lay down more railroads, and absorb more Mexican
territory, than any other nation breathing; but, in this case, where liberty was at stake,
hold me back if we wouldn't fight! At the same time we would pay a premium for the privilege
of whipping Austria single-handed. Young America owes her a debt he stands ready to pay at
the shortest notice and cheapest price. 'Mr. Smooth,' said I, 'is here before you, a free and
independent citizen of the United States, ready to chalk down the items of fighting to be done,
say about how much we can do it for, and get General Pierce, whose fighting diplomatists will
be thrown in, to stand security.' Not comprehending this generous proposition I left them to
their own stupid way; and as every American conceived he had a right to his own opinions I
hoped they would become a reflex of the example.

"Seeing nothing, in Constantinople I could turn to account--the allies were undermining the
foundation of Muslamism as fast as possible--I took a stroll to the seat of war, contenting
myself with the hope that something would ultimately turn up. The fact was, I meant to follow
the policy of the Aberdeen government when starving to death one of the bravest armies that
ever faced a foe. Instead of expanding plains and undulating hills, such as Smooth had pictures
to his mind in his boyhood, I found the seat of war an ungainly mud-puddle, with ramparts of
savage-looking citizens menacing each other from its opposite banks. Between these banks the
amusement of war was every now and then kept up with doubtful results. That something more
than ordinary was to pay I felt assumed by the grimaces of the contending parties, and feeling
a deep interest in the cause, I vaulted into the mist of a group on the left bank, so singularly
mixed that their identity as allies could not be mistaken. To the question as to what brought
them there, they answered with unintelligible assertions about the issue--the balance, of power--the
status quo of Europe, and nobody knows how many more things that were to remain unmoved. The
best that could be made of it was, that the atmosphere of kings and emperors was filled with
very explosive matter which they thought it best to let off in this sort, of way. If, according
to Mr. Smooth's philosophy, Europe were to remain in status quo, that spirit of progress so
much beloved by Mr. Pierce, and his family must die, a natural death. Was it not singular that
the least discussed issue, the most prominent one of the war, according to Smooth's opinion,
was in regard to who should be the greatest toad in the European puddle? Your European puddle
is no ordinary affair; kings and emperors only dabble in it at the expense of their people.
I viewed with some interest this European cesspool. In the centre there was seated on a pole,
with his arms folded, and having an air of assumed independence, a corpulent old gentleman,
whose face fused broad and red, like a full moon in harvest-time. This very honorable gentleman
had long esteemed himself the largest toad in the European puddle, and was worthily sensitive
of his position, though he at times exercised it to a bad purpose. He was notoriously square-shouldered,
had beer'd a great deal during his life, and could be as obstinate as a well-fed donkey. Indeed,
he had more than once been known to put his finger in his mouth and look serious when great
events demanded prompt action, but he never failed to do his part when driven into the fight.
To speak honestly, and with all deference to the feelings of this very respectable gentleman,
John had no legitimate right to be thus mixed up in this squabble of European despots; nor
should he have permitted himself to be led into it on the one side by that imperial transgressor,
and driven on the other by his own beer-shop politicians. That imperial first transgressor
had the fickle imaginations of his people to dazzle by paying off certain old scores; even
now how beautifully he plays the disinterested to curtain the designs of his ambition! John,
nevertheless, did wake from his years of stupor to find himself in an uncertain position;--this
was manifest by the manner in which he assumed a contemplative mood. A few shakes at the hands
of his rougher politicians aroused his apprehension of being swamped in the political perplexity.
Mr. Smooth paused, and took a careful view of the venerable old man, that he might learn something
more of him. 'Stranger.' said I, 'what on earth has brought you here?'

"He canted his head, as if it were thickish, gave a dignified look, and again turned to his
meditations;--'Beg pardon, but I don't know you,' he grumbled.

"'Social's the word, John; be social, and give us an inkling of your motive for that peculiar
position you unwittingly find yourself in.' The salutation seemed to excite his astonishment.
He was a stranger to such familiarity--rudeness, if so you may please to call it; and turned
from me, his movements assimilating to those of a turtle with a coal of fire on his back.

"'You are who?' he returned, in a gruff voice, a scowl of contempt invading his broad face.

"'Smooth, from Down East!' I replied,--'who do you think it is?' To make the point more convincing,
I started up Yankee Doodle, which I whistled with the variations.

"'You are not only an intruder, but an impertinent fellow!'

"'Needn't feel disagreeable about it. Smooth--a man of standing in his diggins, and Young America's
independent delegate, has only come to take a bird's-eye view of the way things look about
this seat of war.'

"'Who the devil is Mr. Smooth? I know he has no business here!' again grumbled the old man.

"'Don't know Solomon Smooth, eh?'

"'No, don't nor do I want to. You are always making difficulty wherever you go, probing your
nose into everybody's business. You may be a keen fellow in commerce, but in diplomacy you
are impertinent and quite beside yourself. You better be off from here, inasmuch as I am the
biggest toad in this puddle, and mean to remain so. We are not inclined to know anything about
Mr. Smooth; so the quicker he packs himself and his baggage up and is off from this, the better.'
The earnestness with which he said this left me no reason to doubt his intention to remain
the biggest toad of the pool.

"'Mr. Smooth, something of a man in Washington, holds a contrary opinion, and claims a right
to know the ins and outs of what is going on outside of your dominions, as well as inside his
own, and to insinuate himself into just what it may please him,' I replied in the measured
manner of an experienced diplomatist.

"'Perhaps you have,' he interrupted, 'but if you were possessed of ordinary modesty, you would
refrain from intermeddling when you saw what a blasted time I had to keep that great Bear,
across there, from breaking his chain and devouring everything on this side.'

"'Feeling a fellow sympathy, I thought perhaps I might lend you a hand to do some of the whipping,--knowing
how the brute professes to be a christian of the latest pattern.' Nicholas had a strong appetite
for the Turkey, which, though sick, he would have no objection to breakfast upon, as I have
before stated; and, that his christian cubs might share the feast, he had begun to teach them
the straightforward principles of holy orthodoxy; which said holy orthodoxy incited a craving
for blood we have not yet learned to appreciate.

"The said sick Turkey had not given the best satisfaction to the world in his mode of reducing
to poverty his flock; and, too, he was always ready to bandy words and ostentation,--having
a large supply of the latter always on hand. He had, moreover, evinced a certain degree of
heroism; nor was he ever backward in professing his readiness to fight somebody--if it were
the unruly Bear, so much the better. The heroism thus manifested on the part of the decaying
Turk would have deserved more praise had it not had its origin in the assurance that Uncle
John would lend a hand to do the fighting. Mark ye! John had copiously poured forth his treasure
and blood in order that this vagabond Turkey might still live, and be saved from the Bear's
all-digesting stomach, and for which he would deny John the freedom of his city; he would condescend
only to honor him with the title of dog.

"In one sense a more generous fellow than John was not to be found on the outside of our small
world. He had been the pack-horse of Europe, and all sorts of kings had used him for all sorts
of purposes. Never was friend used better. He was proud, and yet how submissive. Ready to shed
his blood and squander his treasure for he knew not what, he was equally willing to submit
his well-burdened back to the kicks and cuffs of those he had saved from ignominy. Now, the
very type of endurance was he who sat poised in the puddle. 'As for the Bear,' says John, 'he
won't guarantee to be satisfied with his ordinary rations; and if he were to plant himself
in the centre of this puddle I would very obediently have to plant myself out.' Here John folded
his arms, and, with a dignified air, ordered his beer.

"That John should keep his eye sharp to windward was natural enough; but had this very same
eye been kept to windward many years ago, much blood and treasure had been saved in the present.
It is playing false to his national character thus long for which John now pays so dearly.
But that phantom of terror excited by the Bear's growth, Mr. Smooth seriously thinks unworthy
of being entertained by the honorable John.

"'You need not be alarmed, Mr. Smooth,' continued John, modifying somewhat his natural crisp:
'I am painfully sensible of our diplomatists having played the donkey; but why should you,
being far removed from the scene of strife, nor having immediate interest in the game, desire
to burn a finger in it? Be a man of sense--watch kings and kingcraft--go your way home in peace,
and let peace be your glorious triumph over war!' From John such advice was valuable. Acknowledging
the joys and comforts of peace, we shook hands,--I wished John well with his fighting, and
we parted. I could not however, resist the conviction that John knew not for what he fought
so bravely, and might have maintained his position as the greatest cock of the dunghill without
sorrow to the homes of his people, and desolation into the land of his long tried and most
dependable friend. Who can foretell the ways of a Napoleon. Oh! ambition, ambition!

CHAPTER XIV.

DONE BROWN IN DOWNING-STREET.

"Few would have supposed that when Minister Smooth left General Pierce and his waggish cabinet
he would so soon have taken a turn round the world, and fetched up in that world of misery
and wealth called London. But the world has got very fast, and only a fast man can keep up
with it. Indeed, it were well we set about doing things fast, instead of so thinking them over
in the mind that they seem immovable as mountains. Well, there was in London just about this
time much waste of that sort of small talk newspapers now and then deal largely in, (editors
are always kind enough to consider themselves great warriors), concerning our very spunky Captain
Ingraham, who, they said, had Kosta safe under his guns, and would blow Austria to nobody knew
where. The whole, however, only amounted to the simplest evidence of what there was in sympathy
and the Saxon heart. To our Christian friends would we say--none of these things moved Smooth
from his equilibrium. After all, come to the true philosophy of the thing, and it only amounted
to a broil among small bullies. And, too, did the little skipper not take care of himself he
was no Yankee, and the whole United States would know it to his discredit.

"General Pierce, too, being a fighting President, (not a doubt could exist since the bombardment
of Greytown), would take good care of the whole thing (perhaps send to Congress a message blazing
with the language of war). Could it turn a point to his own advantage, he would--right or wrong--send
a fleet to whip Austria, to make her something.

"But let us turn to a subject more fruitful. London seemed like a great waste of dingy dwellings
and badly constructed palaces, the whole sleeping under a canopy of sickly smoke. Everything
wore a sombre, heavy air--even the men seemed born to methodize on some one object. Show-shops,
beer-shops, and gin-palaces, made the very air reek with their stifling fumes. Above all, there
were great palaces for very faint-hearted people, who thought well of themselves, and in their
prayers thanked Uncle John, at whose great cost they lived in sumptuous idleness. As this last
specimen of human nature, when dressed in full shine, would completely outshine the most vain
Pawnee chief that ever ran wild in Arkansas, Mr. Smooth was anxious for a peep at the curiosity.
In truth, to Mr. Smooth's unpolished eye London looked as if it might have emanated from a
place called hook or crook, and stretched along the banks of a nauseous stream spreading its
death stenches in the air, where, diffusing itself in the most perfect of fogs, it lent cheerful
aid to the trade of physicians. Everybody affected great knowledge of system; and yet things
were so complex of past errors and ages that no system existed equal to the requirements of
the present day. The municipality was great only on dinners and donkeyism. It had indeed a
dining senate, but that august body never was known to discuss the practical reform of anything
but turtle-soup, and that with an horrid carving of the English language.

"The beggar, (we name the worst nuisances first), the begrimed sweep, the butcher, the hawker,
the ignorant costermonger, the 'cute cabby, the wily tradesman, who seeks favors and pockets
frowns from his distinguished clowns--the Lord, whose rank is known by his tinsel, and the
Duke, so deeply identified with flunkeyism,--all move along, helter-skelter, helter-skelter.
And then there came the small men of smaller titles, and the commoner whose grumbling was only
equalled by his apeings. To dine with my Lord Flippington was to him something great; nor could
his airs and ostentation be well improved. The little man of little titles, too, stood profound
in his dignity: no man was larger, nor thought he that his own little self wasn't great. To
the tailor who made him he paid money down. Of all men was he the largest dabbler in that divine
essence of things called men--the philosophy of blood. But to keep up the dignity it not only
required a great deal of experience, but a large amount of tin in the pocket, which for the
minus thereof was it necessary to have a deal of brass in the face. This principle, then, which
is strictly in accordance with natural philosophy, being very well developed in this worthily
aged country, makes the truly great very great of modesty; while the man of pewter greatness--that
is, great because Our Sovereign Lady said he might take upon himself the name of Sir Simpleton
Somebody! always boiling over with the froth of his own follies. With tin in his pocket, brass
in his face, and never a forlorn h in his vocabulary, is he the fellow to do brown the 'rag
and tinsel.'

"Well, Mr. Smooth felt conscious of his own importance, and that same was something among the
good British. With philosophy profound in his long face, Mr. Smooth made his compliments to
the new and very sedate minister, who some facetious wags called the very unobsequious Jimmy
Buckanan, of Pensylvane. This worthy and very firm-fisted statesman, who was too much of the
old school ever to be President of our United States, advised the doing of a great many things,
the diplomacy of which Mr. Smooth seriously doubted. Especially did Smooth question his reasoning
on the breeches question, the quaint originality of which was Marcy's own. This the venerable
statesman informed me in a sly sort of way, as he invited me to go into the back place and
take a little gin and bitters in a quiet way, for he was inveterately averse to every body
watching his movements. To live in a country so ancient of incongruities, and where not alone
the weak-minded bedeck themselves in fancy coats and flashy tassels, and indescribable coverings
of high colors, requires some resolution in the man who mixes with it, and is pleased to make
known his taste for plain black. And here Mr. Smooth and the worthy and very promising statesman
held a very learned controversy over the fact of Marcy having gone into the tailoring business
so largely as to define the shape of coat it was consistent to wear at court tea-parties. Smooth
wanted to put on a little bright, just to look a man of consequence, and in order not to be
behind several of his brother democrats, whose names he views it imprudent here to insert,
and seeing how he was invited to join a dough-nut party in Downing street, while he was certain
of a card to one of Citizen Peabody's most select dinners, for Peabody was an intimate friend
and old acquaintance; but our honest and very American plenipotentiary said it would not do,
for the obvious reason that a man's importance should depend on what was in his brains. His
very democratic secretary having come to his sense of the force of this argument, had made
a solemn promise to put on red cloth and feathers but four times a year, one of which he stipulated
should be at the opening of the Crystal Palace, that being an occasion when all the fine ladies
were expected to be present for the purpose of witnessing the superiority of genius over court
fooleries, as well as being singularly fascinated with the young secretary's handsome person.
The argument here was so strong that Smooth at once knocked under; and, too, simplicity in
great men being greatness itself, he sincerely enjoined all his countrymen to let sense and
not semblance honor their country, guide their actions when abroad.

"Acting upon the principle so many of our countrymen unhappily develop, (thinking nobody could
hear of it on the other side of the water,) Mr. Smooth chartered a donkey-cart, put his donkeys
in shining liveries, and was determined to outdo the Choctaws in making London astonished.
The most expensive tailor in Regent street did up the external, as he had before so many of
my very simple-minded countrymen. Such a suit of toggery as it was! Alongside of me General
Scott would have looked shy, I reckon. And then, when the big cocked hat was spread! I tell
you, Uncle Sam, there as no touching Smooth--he was half-duke, half-beadle, and the rest Pierce
diplomatist. 'If a dash ain't cut among the nobs!' thought I. The donkey turn out was a curiosity,
Smooth himself was a curiosity; and with two curiosities an excitement was certain. My first
dash was into Hyde Park, near the entrance of which stood the brazen statue of a gladiator,
raised by fair hands, in commemoration of the Iron Duke, whose indelible deeds they would emblazon
on hardest brass. In this park, at fashionable hours, sauntered the nice young men of the West
End; that is, the biggest snobs of the fashionable world; but Smooth took the shine out of
the whole lot, as did nearly all the rest of Mr. Pierce's little folks. Had he, however, turned
out in the flummery of some of his contemporary snobs, and driven thus equipped into Cape Cod,
a town-meeting, to take into consideration the sending him to a place where straight-jackets
are worn, had been the result. But in London a man may make almost any kind of a fool of himself,
without applying for a license. Indeed, the man most earnest in making an ass of himself may
do it, with the satisfaction of knowing that he has a very large number of very respectable
families for patrons. In Hyde Park the greatest asses (a name and the needful may be necessary)
have the most followers. Longest ears are not the surest indices. After all, my reader must
excuse me for not visiting the purlieus of Downing street just yet, having a few of Mr. Pierce's
little folks to pack up and send home to Fourney, with instructions that he give them a few
more turns on his grindstone.

CHAPTER XV.

HIS LITTLE LORDSHIP'S SHOW, AND A PEEP INTO DOWNING-STREET.

"Uncle Sam!--if, beside yourself, there exists outside of Cape Cod another individual who would
like to see Mr. Thomas Foolery move in state most perfect, just send him over here: he must
be present on that day when the little Lord Mayor makes a great man of himself. A great man
is the Lord Mayor on that day on which he sacrifices all his good sense to an ancient and much-beloved
show, in which he permits himself to be made the fool of the farce. No Choctaw war-train was
ever half so extravagant of colored cloth and feathers. A great day for London loafers is it,
when my Lord Mayor puts on the big chain, and issues his mandate to the sprats, who then come
up the river, to the great joy of the poor, who have it thus in tradition. Well, Smooth thought
he would keep Lord Mayor's day, and to that end harnessed up his team of donkeys, merely by
way of contrasting it with some duke's turn-out. Imagine, Sam, my chagrin, when one of the
donkeys took it into his head to keep Lord Mayor's day in his own obstinate way. Not a step
would he go. However, I got another donkey, and proceeded to where the Lord Mayor was, just
in time to hear him make a funny speech, throughout which he made a sad slaughter of all the
h's and a's of the King's good English. Then he seated himself in the barge, and had a sail
on the Thames, followed by innumerable beggars, sycophants, and costermongers. Succeeding this
he marshalled his show-folks into a string (such a string!), and with them caused his august
self to be moved to the Mansion House. Swarms of frightened turtles were seen hurrying away
in front of the cavalcade.

"Such a set of white-washed heads--heads with all outside--heads with little inside--and heads
nobody knew what they had been made for, never before were seen displayed in one string. Strangely
attractive was the glare of tinsel--it fascinated the little souls of corpulent men, and made
small men more becomingly great. Fact was, Uncle Sam, His Worship the Lord Mayor, whose year
of greatness was death to turtle and terrapin, so outshone Her Most Gracious Majesty (a good
little body) in confusion of brilliant brass, that the little woman thought it incumbent to
call a Cabinet Council, before which she laid the grievance of his stealing her thunder. At
this privy council Prince Albert was permitted to be present without anything being said by
the Daily News and Morning Advertiser. His Worship had indeed usurped all the modern appliances
of flunkeydom. But the cabinet, it was acknowledged, was very thick-headed, and her Majesty,
good body, must bear the consequences.

"Well, after the most curious caravan eyes ever rested upon, there followed his jolly worship
the Lord Mayor; he largely sat in a coach of gingerbread, the tea-things spread outside, and
the glows of Souchong impregnating the air. They said his jolly Lordship sold real and mixed
Twankey. In this sense, however, was his Lordship more fortunate than his predecessor, who,
having ascended from the soap business, and himself used a large amount of that article for
the purpose of washing down the wares of Threadneedle street, found his greatest difficulty
that of getting rid of the foetid scent. And then, my Lord's h's were the things most violently
handled; for otherwise he wasn't a bad fellow, and when he rode in his coach of the olden time,
which might, by the green in mythology, have been taken for the lost chariot of Elijah, it
was a serious question whether himself or the things that held on behind were greatest. Then
these latter gents of flunkeydom in frills had big sticks in their hands, with which they kept
the flies from my Lord's good-natured countenance. Happy fellows were they, and, like well-stuffed
mules, only wanted the long soft ears to make them marketable. Everybody said it was a big
day in London. To have suggested that his Worship might be making an ass of himself in this
common-sense nineteenth century would have been to render yourself a victim of hasty contempt.
Smooth was just taking a contemplative view of these things,--asking himself how many poor
wretches would lose a day's work over the nonsense; how many would get drunk on the hallucination
of the show; how many poor mechanics would make a blue week to his Lordship's honor; and how
many would find themselves in the House of Correction to his disgrace--how many employers would
be annoyed,--how many customers would be disappointed--and how many wives would get broken
heads; when suddenly a crowd of filthy, dejected, and ruthless beings swept along in mass,
heedless of whatever came in their way, and threatening life and limb in the onset. Then there
came such a smashing of maids' bonnets, squeezing of milliners, and frightening of old maids,
as never was seen before; indeed, this, added to the many well-jammed ribs and jostled beavers,
seemed the most expensive part of my Lord's show. Summing the whole thing up in a logical sort
of way, Smooth made it amount to this:--that the Lord Mayor, just mounting into greatness,
could by no means make that greatness impressive by any knowledge of philosophy he possessed;
so, to be sure that his importance had its force upon all vulgar minds, he suffered himself
made to play the part of a monkey in a cake-shop. To this his Worship added the greater gratification
of having given amusement to nine-tenths of the city costermongers, made idle seven-tenths
of the working people, kept busy two thousand gin-shops, filled eleven hundred chop-houses,
given hard work to five hundred policemen, who never like to be worked hard, and made lackeydom
tumultuous. And then Beadledom seemed crazed, and, joined with the many ale-bibbers, were turned
out to do good service in the show. But, to make my Lord's train complete, there was no knowing
how many men he had to ride on horseback, how many more so inebriated they couldn't ride, how
many of a character nobody would desire to know out of his show, and how many ballet girls
who ride in circuses and so forth,--all of which latter material had faces made deep of moonshine
modesty, to suit the solemn occasion. Then my Lord topped off the little end of his show with
the soup and great Ministers of State. And, that nothing should be left undone, the Times must
have a go in at it, which it did with one of Doctor Moseley's most spicy articles, putting
the whole thing into a very comical nutshell. Quoth Sam, without the thunderer's dissecting
knife a London Lord Mayor would be the most beautiful of nobodys--that is, so far as sense
goes. Smooth, on the nicest observation, was decidedly of the opinion that only one thing more
was wanted to make the Lord Mayor's Show complete--a pair of long soft ears emblazoned on the
Corporation coach. The reader will excuse Smooth for dwelling thus long on little things.

"Having peeped long enough at the Lord Mayor's Show, I felt like looking at something more
solid; so to that end I turned about the donkey-cart, whistled to the flunkeys (kept things
of this kind merely to be like other Americans when abroad), and drove into Regent street,
where I would inform General Pierce and all my firm friends a desperate excitement was made.
Then, in glowing independence, I rolled away down Pall Mall, where the club-people--especially
those of that institution of arrogance called the Reform--seemed much astonished. From thence
I proceeded past Trafalgar square, where stood in singular contrast the monument of the noble
Nelson, and an equestrian statue of that ignoble creature, Charles the First, the loss of whose
head saved England from disgrace. How strange, that even in this day of intelligence and liberty-loving,
it should stand a shrine before which very respectable old gentlemen poured out their stale
patriotism! At last I found myself in Downing street--at the door of a massive and sombre-looking
mansion (No. 12) in front of which stood methodical-looking men with grave countenances. And,
too, there sauntered moodily venerable-looking gentlemen, now and then casting wistful glances
at the time-begrimmed walls, as if they would see some one sealed-up in the antiquated recesses
of the place. Mr. Smooth's turn-out only made a stir among them; they reckoned somebody had
come! In a free-and-easy sort of way I walked straight to the door, maintaining my independence
the while, and feeling as important as a door-keeper in Congress. After passing the massive
entrance I encountered innumerable obstacles in the form of flunkeys, and then passed into
a dingy room of immense size, which for all the world had the appearance of having some two
or three hundred years ago served for a barracks. 'By appointment?' inquired a human thing
dressed, as he emerged from behind a green screen situated at one corner. He bowed, and I bowed,
until he was satisfied I was somebody, 'Who would you see?' he reiterates, adding another bow.

"'Well!' returned I, 'reckon how I'll think about that.' Then the fellow crossed three or four
times my track, as much as to say--Stranger! you don't go in there. Presently a batch of well-to-do
individuals came snickering out of a closet, and eyed me very suspiciously; at which I summoned
all my brass, and stood fronting them like a staring machine. 'You must say who you want to
see!' interposes the man I first confronted.

"I here took leisurely out my card, and said 'I would like to see the Duke of Newcastle, who
temporarily tied up in this establishment.' He viewed my card with a serious hesitation; at
which I turned round, and told him I would not trouble him, but take it myself, had he had
any special objection to going a-head. They, the people, said the Duke, did all he could with
what he had to do with. If it were not possible to see the Duke, I would like a peep at my
venerable aunt Aberdeen, who was about as well qualified to sway the destinies of discontented
England as a virgin pumpkin; and together with my ever amiable Lord Clarendon, would set a
world at war good-naturedly. These very high functionaries, Mr. Smooth was informed, could
not at present be seen by common people, inasmuch as they were contemplating the problem:--'I
don't know what to do!' Nicholas's appetite for Turkey breakfasts had made work too profound
for the brains of Downing Street. 'Don't seem a subject of this atmosphere,' said the stupid,
significantly canting his head, and giving a queer look out of the corner of his right eye.
'You fellows don't seem to know me,' I interpolated, 'Citizen Smooth--they call me Solomon
Smooth, Esq., that is my name.' A door now opened near where I was standing, and in I walked--right
among the Dukes and dough-heads. It only wanted a bold push, in the right go-ahead sort of
way, to make myself respected. Dukes were not only flesh and blood, but owed much of their
importance to the ignorance of the people they aspired to frown upon. Dukes, Earls, and Lords,
were, at this moment, playing at very un-English games for England. They affected to believe
it right that the loyal people (I mean the simple and vulgar, who have hitherto proved mean
the simple and vulgar) who have hitherto proved true to their noble traditions, should remain
ignorant of the game played at their expense. This, Mr. Smooth thought too bad; however, his
friend Urquhart was devising a scheme for remedying the evil, which, did he not himself fall
into evil, might do great good to the nation in general. But Urquhart was so modest that he
never accused Lord Palmerston of anything worse than bringing about the potato rot in Ireland.
'Hallo hallo!' a dozen voices echoed from the table around which the all-accomplished sat:--'A
rustic intruder is upon us!' half muttered the man who followed me in. 'It's only Solomon Smooth,
Esq., from the Cape,' returned I, with a good, wholesome laugh. Believe me, Uncle Sam, there
sat round a table ten of the most solemn-looking fellows, with faces as dreary as a wet moon
in November. Some of this unique body looked as if they had seen hard usage and lean pay. Others
were grey with thinking, instead of moving. Be not surprised either when I say that the gravity
of their countenance left no visible room for anything else. Hard at it were they, straining
their antiquated imaginations over a secret game of thimble-rig, which seemed of momentous
importance. Only five, however, could play at the game; and Sawny Dablerdeen, who always played
on two small pipes, and paid sundry small pipers to do a deal of blowing, seemed in the greatest
fuddle. And then there was my Lord John Littlejohn, as crusty a little snap as ever declaimed
against tyrant in one breath, or turned a political summersault in another;--bricks to the
back-bone was he, and all for old England, though he was not bigger than one of Betsy Perkin's
well-grown cucumbers, and could be turned to as many uses. But what there is mentally in a
man must not be judged by the measure of his body from head to foot. And, too, there was my
very amiable Lord Clarendon, who attempted to out-clever my Lord John, inasmuch as John stated,
in the fulness of his geographical knowledge, that the passage between Havana and the extreme
southern point of Florida was not more than four hundred miles, while my Lord Clarendon assured
the House of Lords that South Carolina was an island. Enlightened House of Lords! But, after
all, there was a harmony of sentiment between these two noble worthies that was truly grateful
to the submissive hearts of the freedom-loving English; both could spin flattering speeches:
both could play the long and short; both could wince when foreign bull-dogs sent out their
threatening growls; and both were mighty of mouth when dealing with little chickens. It was
not to be concealed, however that Dablerdeen, master of the board, was gifted with the unfortunate
characteristic of talking himself into an interminable difficulty.

"'Who, or from whence on earth do you come?' inquired my Lord.

"'Smooth,' I replied, that is my name; I am a citizen of the Great Republic--come to study
the way in which you are disorganizing foreign affairs.'

"'Yer a little in advance of the times--too fast, sir!' replied a large man most serious of
face. Thinking it best to answer him by declaring my opinion to be that it was better to be
with the age than behind it,--and which I believe constituted the only difference between a
fast and slow man of the present day, I let slide at him upon the fallacy of his political
philosophy, with knock-down arguments.

"The fellows cooled down at once, and John Littlejohn said, 'Come, Smooth! if you really are
a clever citizen then you are precisely the fellow we want!' And then he conversed feelingly
with me, said how much he liked our country and our countrymen; persuaded himself to believe
them the real go-ahead chaps--though he, at times, thought it quite necessary to keep their
go-ahead a little slow. I proposed their taking a smoke in a rough and ready sort of way, and
pulling out my pouch, in a friendly sort of way, they all seemed struck aback with astonishment.
One said, if we did things that way in Congress it was not the way they did them here. They
all shook their heads--said they didn't smoke.

"'We will may it please you Mr. Smooth--Citizen of the United States--excuse these things for
the present,' rejoined Dablerdeen, who looked as if he did not know which way to turn, or how
to please his people. Seeing this I sat down and watched the very odd style in which they played
the game. Dablerdeen did all the talking, and Littlejohn, whom the reader will see had returned
home helped him make his muff; and then there was a good deal of assisting one another to forget
each move. But Sandy always moved slow, as if he had something under his thimble he was afraid
of damaging. 'That's Turkey, that's Russia, that's France, and that's Austria--and this is
ourselves!' he would say, making the moves up or down, but not knowing where to stop. 'It won't
do to push that one, it won't!' he continued, pointing at the one he called Austria. 'If you
did, nothing would you get from under it. It's a costly cup with a tender handle, somewhat
dangerous to turn: only the cup of Spain is more costly; but that in this emergency is of no
account whatever.' They had no United States cup to move, inasmuch as Jonathan had very respectfully
declined to hazard a point in European games when he withheld his ascent to a tripartite treaty
for the purpose of keeping his delicate fingers off Cuba. Now these very antiquated gentlemen
seemed to entertain some respect for the British Lion, some apprehension of Jonathan and Nicholas,
and a great dislike for fighting, which they had been driven, or rather drifted, into much
against their imagined obligations to peace; for, indeed, did they carry on the war tail foremost,
finding everything they had done large of stupidity. By and by a loud call rang through the
tabernacle, and in another minute the platter of dough-nuts was borne in by two cooks. One,
they said was Mrs. Victoria, and the other was Mr. Napoleon, curious acquaintances, who lugged
and tugged, and puffed and blowed; and the piping hot doughnuts nuts gave out their glows.
Then the players all seemed to quicken up, as if they had sooner be eating than thinking.

"'Strange things will come to pass at times, and nothing stranger has come to pass than that
John Bull and Johnny Crappo have gone into the brotherly-love business, by which they hope
to bring about one grand object,' I said. 'Neither had I any objection to Spain joining, provided
she kept Cuba all right. But, Cuba being so near Uncle Sam's fingers, nothing more than the
common course of events was needed to let it slide so naturally into his modest hands.' Smooth
told the old gentlemen that the very best way to hasten Uncle Sam's getting Cuba was to point
out a process by which he could keep his hand out of his pockets. 'We, Mr. Smooth, do not question
your correctness on the point, so far at it refers to this Cuba business, and the tripartite
treaty which we would you had signed merely that your fingers were kept off the property; but
you have misconstrued our amiable motives--we only wanted to form a trio, honorable in combination--that
is, we would it were mutually understood that you do not annex Cuba, and we will not!' said
my Lord Littlejohn, who spoke quite as spunky, though with less assurance on geography, than
he did to the very amiable Mr. Everett. Smooth understood the P's and Q's of the thing, without
examining further into the portfolio. It was Johnny Bull saying to Johnny Crappo--'them Yankees
'll get Cuba!--in spite of all we can do.' Of course something must be said in return; so Crappo
puts in his say:--'Can't you suggest some way to stop it, Uncle John?' he inquires, with a
quizzical shrug, adding--mon dieu! 'But, by gar, we may do him somefin yet, by gar!'

"To make rogue one honest man is one clever thing; Mr. Jonathan mistake himself in tinking
himself great, when he not so great. Now, dem Yankee one grand 'cute fellow; you no catch him
wid de, bird chaff,' he is supposed to conclude. Smooth very amiably suggested that it were
better to let Cuba be Cuba, until the time came when, if she felt like snugly brooding under
Uncle Sam's wings, without any assistance would he attend to the little matter of offering
her a roost. Uncle Sam was growing, but had grave ideas, with which he generally maintained
his own dignity. They here reckoned Mr. Smooth had delivered his speech with becoming dignity.
Of this fact I was fully sure, for my Lord Littlejohn put his finger into his mouth and began
to suck it, as is common with him in these his days of tribulation. 'Let us quit the Ottomans
and go into the eatables: the one is so dry nothing is to be made at it, while at the other
everything is to be made, for there is something to eat,' rejoined John. They carried the suggestion
by acclamation. Just then, whang!--bang!--whiz! somebody thundered at the door, when, alarmed,
they all cried out--'whose there?' In answer to this the man with the long rod cried out at
the very top of his voice--'Stop the game!' The old fellows began to stow away their gambling
tools, look innocently and vacantly at one another, as if a crisis was upon them they could
not understand. 'It's only us outsiders,' a voice replied, in most harmless accents.

"'There! I told you we'd make a mess of it,--that the outsiders would break in upon us' said
Littlejohn, with a savage grimace, directing himself to Dablerdeen, who it was now thought
better to call Grandmamma Fudge. The gentlemen outsiders were the honor-saving committee from
Finsbury, the members of which declared themselves large stakeholders in the game at the Treasury.
Grandmamma Fudge thought it best to tell them, merely in a bluff sort of way, that England's
honor was safe in his keeping--that they must not be scared about it; not however, until they
found him pedling pills and other quack medicines with the object of inducing Austria to be
more explicit. 'But, my old closeters, in we must come! Fearing you have got the gout in the
head, we are here to make an examination; things done in secret have a dark look about them;
and we, being the honor-saving committee, have come to make a single suggestion, which is that
my lord of foreign affair memory is found wanting in firmness, and gets very crooked when he
is not kept straight, which is most unfortunate in a diplomatist who smokes bad cigars all
the day long. This said, it must be remembered that old Finsbury feels sensitive of her rights
and liberties; closely allied to which is the honor of Old England. And Christmas being near
at hand, if the old Bear eat up all the Turkey, Finsbury cannot keep it; and we have been honied
down in a good-natured sort of way long enough.' Poor old Grandmamma Fudge looked dumbfounded,
like at times we see a disconsolate individual, who nipped in a hail-storm, mourns the loss
of his umbrella. Like death, it was necessary to keep close, tell the honor-saving committee
to maintain their usual spirits, and call again, when in respect to their ancient character,
they would get a listening for their grievances. With this valuable solace, condescendingly
bestowed by the ancient gentlemen aforesaid did the committee go away happy, promise to be
very good, and keep Finsbury before the world.

"The gentlemen having been respectfully bowed out of Downing street, a loud call was made to
commence again at the dough-nuts. 'I say, bring 'em on,' rejoined I; Smooth 'll help (I'd been
seated a little back, watching the while) play at that or any other game, provided there be
a rule of honor and economy to work out.'

"'Be a little more modest, Smooth--if you please!' spoke up my most intimate friend, Palm,
who until then had seemed viewing the whole conclave with measured contempt. Indeed my friend
Palm was a regular brick in his way, which fact was most happily illustrated in the manner
he now and then threw the hard tokens at the head of his parliamentary brother Bright. It was
as unfortunate as notorious, however, that in his dealings with the United States, his conduct
was as dishonorable as uncertain. 'Smooth, you are a large youth,' said he; 'but your reforming
principles have too great a resemblance to innovations to go down without scratching, in this
aged atmosphere of ours! Nor must you be so lavish of your manifest destiny policy; that, to
me, is the medium by which you intend to come on this side of the big pond and stick your fingers
into everybody's mess.'

"I interrupted him just then; and in reply to a question I put, he acknowledged his conviction
to be that we did things well and simply; but he made one little reservation, and that was
that we did not do so well when we permitted the little State of South Carolina to imprison
Uncle John's nigger sailors. Then he said South Carolina was the Empire State of Nigger Slavery;
and was not aware of his mistake, until such I happily removed by convincing him that she was
the only Don Quixote of the Union; and as it was necessary for every nation to have such an
inhabitant in its compact, merely for the purpose of keeping alive the humorous, so Carolina
filled the void in America, where happily her little exploits were viewed as very harmless.

"Well, peace again being preserved, we drew up to have a feast of the hot dough-nuts, when
a terrible thundering came at the great door. Then the figure standing guard, who resembled
a flour-barrel in frills, announced the reporter of the Times; who said he must come in, for
his folks, too, held a large stake in the game. And the individual did come in; and a right
jolly-looking fellow he was, too; and in contrast with the fudgy old conclave, seemed bright,
fresh, and ready to go ahead; and then he said the Times and the country were two great institutions.
'You!' he spoke, advancing independently to the table, and grinning the old fogies almost out
of countenance, 'have got to render an account of this game to the country! your just unequiliberizing
everything; and my humble opinion is that you have got the fear fever in your heads.' The old
gentleman took it all in good part; in fact (the truth must be told at times) they seemed rather
to fear and like the man of the Times, who seldom failed in getting by some mysterious process
the secrets of Downing street. However, as disturbances seldom come separate, no sooner had
the man of the Times been smoothed nicely down with Downing street soft-soap, of which a never-failing
supply was always at hand, than a most furious hue and cry again echoed through the old walls
from another part of the house. Alarm and anxiety darted into the face of everyone present;
all eyes stared in death-like gaze in the direction from whence it came. Smooth being in for
a share of the alarm as well as the fun, looked along with the rest, when, lo! high on a seat
in the corner, sat Mr. Punch, his comical face glowing through a sort of knot-hole and Toby
perched on his right shoulder, growling and looking as if he wanted to bite every old fudge
in the conclave. Punch, to outsecret the players, was, in a very clever sort of way, taking
private notes, the subject matter of which he intended giving to his readers in a very condensed
and elegant volume. This started the players to their feet, when each seized a book, and, letting
fly at Punch's head, drove him scampering out of Downing street.

"Having got rid of Mr. Punch, and bowed the man of the Times politely out, Grandmama Fudge,
in a strong Scotch brogue, said, 'Nu, luds, let us gang awa to the crumpets--bring 'um hither,
mya bullies!' He drew a sort of simple contortion over his broad, hard face, and mouthed his
lips, as if he would the amplest dough-nut be put on his plate. Palm, just as they were resuming
their seats, insinuated that as the venerable old man was well gone in his dotage, he had better
measure his diet somewhat after the judicious character of his diplomacy, which was celebrated
for its small doses crookedly doled out. The dish was again removed, mouths began to water,
eager eyes glanced upon the steaming viands, giving out their strong glows and unsavory smells.
This incited dither strong, on calling the two cooks its, after many and tedious interrogatories,
confessed, in fear and trembling, that Grandmama Fudge had strictly ordered them fried in grease
of the Russian Bear, an animal for which he entertained a curious sympathy. And here it was
observed, with no very commendable emphasis, that the precious old dote had a particular partiality
for Bruin's dominions, nor could be driven from the strange hallucination. Another minute and
the poor old man was in the most alarming state of mind that could be imagined; the largest
dough-nut on the platter had stuck half-way down his throat. To relieve himself of his unsuccessful
attempt at swallowing things beyond his capacity, he called lustily for Palm, who, unfortunately,
had left in disgust, the stench of Bear's grease being too strong for his capricious organs.
'He! he! he! ah mun, I doe believe to heaven it's all up--I doe!' gurgled the old man, struggling
in spasmodic efforts to get the thing up or down. 'If I die,' he continued, 'with this lump
of indecision in my throat, the consequences will be that no man will mourn over me.' Littlejohn,
always ready to move as occasion required, sprung to his aid, crying 'Swallow it! swallow it!
for the honor of Young England swallow it! If it comes up you're a dead premier: dead without
a doctor.' The whole thing now became a complex confusion; no one knew how to unconfuse it.
It was a sad mistake having its origin only in the want of the age's appliances to our day
and its circumstances; he had attempted a nut he had not capacity to swallow. A dozen voices
cried out 'Bring in the doctor.' and as many more said the case was a desperate one. Some run
one way; some run another; 'and some never moved. Downing street was in tribulation. Then everybody
ran in everybody's way; nobody knew what to do; nor could anybody find Mr. Chesterfield, the
loud shouts for whom seemed to make him a character of some importance. Mr. Smooth kept very
cool the while, thinking it best to maintain his philosophy up to a scientific point; and in
that way he reckoned it was as well to send for Doctor Punch, who, in such cases was an adept
of a practitioner, and had an extensive infirmary in Fleet street, where patients innumerable
were healed for three-pence. Well, just as they were on the point of making a rush, a voice
cried out--'Here I am! here I am!' and in another minute there jumped from under the table
a suspicious-looking turkey, who stood upon the platter, clapped his wings, and sent the dough-nuts
into a flutter about the room. 'I'm all right' he proclaimed, stretching to his extreme height
'let every man take care of himself.' My reader will scarce question my veracity when I say
the turkey looked with grave disdain upon the unnecessary confusion, made at this moment by
British cabinet cooks, whom it was gravely intimated, had lessoned of Mr. Pierce's French cook,
Monsieur Souley. Mr. Smooth, about this time, resolved to leave the donkey diplomatists, and
drive his own ugly brutes home.

CHAPTER XVI.

SMOOTH DINES WITH CITIZEN PEABODY.

"Smooth being a great man, as well as Mr. Pierce's minister in general--and citizen Peabody
being no less great in diplomacy, which he illustrated in the most substantial manner--it became
necessary to make a demonstration: to this end did friend George delegate his hospitality in
an invitation to dine with him at Blackwall. George was large and loose of figure, possessed
a broad, honest face, bright with kindness, candor, and firmness: added to which a well-developed
nose; a soft, yet watchful eye a mouth indicating gentleness; and a broad, benevolent chin,
finished the make-up of the external man--if we except a neat pair of brown whiskers, and a
head of dark youthful hair. Citizen George loved dearly his country, and was altogether a man
who meant well, nor ever forgot those of his countrymen who reflected honor on their country
when abroad. He had no genius for politics, had never aspired to the class par excellence;
no, he espoused none of their dogmas; he let littler minds revel in such luxuries. The means
by which little demagogues find themselves great politicians could reflect no fame to George:
he served his country with less noise and more effect. If he was quiet and unassuming; if he
loved his country to a fault, that fault was his own, not his country's. How much more to be
praised is he who seeks when in foreign lands to sustain the simple but grand spirit of our
institutions! For sustaining the simplicity of our institutions is friend George most to be
praised. The object of his labor was the establishment of a simple but real and effective diplomacy,
from which international benefits of great worth might result. A few here and there had doubted
the quality of his diplomacy; but no one bold enough to question his abilities as a diplomatist
had yet been found. It is not what we are supposed to do, but what we really do, that ought
to entitle us to respect. And had not citizen George done more to promote a kindly feeling
between the too boastful peoples of England and America than all our well-paid ministers, their
court luxuries, and costly retinues thrown in? That citizen George would interpose for peace
and international harmony, in the event of an unfortunate misunderstanding between the two
countries, was equally certain; indeed he had more than once had occasion to view with feelings
of commiseration those small jealousies against which great minds have to contend while seeking
to carry out an enlarged policy. Painful as may be the assertion, it is nevertheless true,
that whenever questions of an intricate nature arose those whose legitimate business it was
to act in the matter were either moved by the narrowest aspirations of party, or, yielding
to their own more contracted views, were disposed to keep alive dissensions blighting to their
country's best interests.

"Deeper than etiquette and quibble (those much-beloved virtues of the time-serving and polite
corps) had friend George delved into the recesses of human nature, that he might find a law
upon which to build a comity of enlarged sentiment, having for its end the bringing together
of Americans and Englishmen, cementing the bonds of commercial intercourse, and pledging the
continuance of peace. Those whom he thus worthily drew together did he enjoin to cease their
small jars and partake of his large jar, which was always plentifully stored. Be not surprised,
then, when Smooth tells all his readers in general, and General Pierce in particular, that
Citizen Peabody has founded a dinner diplomacy, contrasted with which all other species of
the order are but secondary. This was indeed the means by which he hoped to, and no doubt would,
develop a more fruitful international policy; for, meats and good drinks being never-failing
arguments with fat Aldermen and Statesmen, who could doubt it? Smooth would here say to Uncle
Sam, that there is no mistake about the effect of this sort of diplomacy, and begs that he
will insinuate to Mr. Pierce the propriety of his suggesting to Congress through the medium
of his next Annual Message (he will make a hit) the propriety of sending abroad good cooks
instead of bad ministers. They must be well provided with gold eagles, and give the very best
sort of dinners to every hungry citizen, at Sam's account; the boy will then shine in all his
glory! Never dealing in sarcasms, nor casting reflections of an insinuating character, yet,
Mr. Smooth cannot forbear to say that while the very polite worship at the shrine of the polished
corps, stronger-minded men are always found doing homage to the meats and drinks--more particularly
when they are good! Upon this most modern but very material principle of natural philosophy
(with a great heart, and intentions to correspond) did our worthy and truly characteristic
countryman pursue to usefulness his diplomacy. That it had excited the fear of small politicians
and antiquated and very polite diplomats, whose trade it seriously damaged, was well known
to Mr. Pierce and the world in general. Even this species of gentry was at times disposed to
pay it compliment; but it was only on the ground of its relieving them of that onerous tax
of now and then receiving their fellow-citizens respectably. Smooth is exceedingly delicate
about mentioning here the onerousness of this tax, inasmuch as our parsimonious government
has proved itself obstinately opposed to grant a sum requisite to the necessary respectability
to be maintained at foreign courts.

"Well, the day arrived on which Smooth was to dine with Citizen George, and not the smallest
idea had he of meeting another stray citizen. Happy in the enjoyment of our own greatness,
Smooth expected to learn something of Uncle George's opinions upon international questions
in general, and to give him in return some account of General Pierce's crooked notions of a
national policy--so crooked, indeed, that they left him alike the laughing-stock of friends
and foes. This was very easily done, for, being Mr. Pierce's special minister to everywhere
in general, and more particularly to Europe, where he invested him (Smooth) with power to draw
up preliminaries for the 'Ostend Convention,' as well as to cut a figure on behalf of Young
America, the power thus given made the divulging Mr. Pierce's policy no breach of confidence.
As for Young America, that very unassuming young gentleman was being gloriously represented
by the very famous house of the three S.'s and Co. (Sickles, Saunders, Souley, Buckhanan &
Co.), the latter very respectable gentleman having been received into the firm with the specific
understanding that he sell out his large stock of old fogyism, and invest the proceeds in manifest
destiny.

"Nothing is so easily attained as the flattery of small men; and yet no essence is more delicious
to the soul of a sycophant, for it is he that loves to refresh his recreant spirit with human
frailty. Mr. Pierce's comprehensive and very elastic mind had not yet made a point of analysing
this as properly as it was capable of being.

"Doing himself (Smooth) up in his very best fixings, he chartered a steamboat--that is, he
got aboard a steamboat--and in the company of our very gallant Secretary of Legation (who has
since joined the very excellent and honorable order of doubtful politicians), paid his pennies
and steamed away for Blackwall. Here he and his friend sought the Brunswick, a very grand hotel,
where now and then the vulgar do dine, and console their love of fashion with much show of
dishes and very aristocratic prices. And now, to Smooth's utter astonishment, on being bowed
into a gorgeous hall by lackies in ordinary, who stood like tailored mummies along the halls
and passages, he found it taken possession of by some hundred and fifty of both sexes, gaily
attired, and altogether presenting the brightness of a bridal party. There were knights and
baronets, great and small; some wore an insignia, but nothing else to distinguish them from
the very vulgar. And, too, there was Sir William Busey, a good diner-out, and always ready
to do such noble deeds. All stiff and staid, sallied up and down Sir James Muke, affecting
to feel much annoyed because vulgar citizens would not regard him in the same distinguished
light in which he contemplated himself. Indeed, were Sir James's manners taken in evidence
of his distinguished position, the verdict could not fail to be in favor of his only being
set down a very distinguished bore. However, on the principle of forgiveness being sweet, did
Smooth forgive Sir James, and charge his manners to defect of early bringing up.

"And, too, there was, all reserve, smiling and dignified, Sir Memberman Plenat, who wore no
toy of rank, that article being largely developed in his manly bearing. There were also, be
it known, other barons and baronets, some of whom were equally imbued with their own importance,
others quite modest and gentlemanly in their demeanor. But, to make the greatness of the occasion
complete, there was the little Lord Mayor, who, like a mirror reflecting a sun-shower, loomed
forth in all the greatness of his own light. Of ladies there was no lack. Some were of well
established celebrity; others were decked in costly fabrics to create a celebrity; a third
were fair to look upon. The English ladies seemed round of person, buoyant and joyous of soul:
the American queens of beauty (their faces sparkling of love and gentleness) moved to and fro,
like sylphs of some fairy land, making splendid the scene. The dashing New Yorker, her smiles,
unerring arrows, piercing whither she shot them; the vivacious and intelligent daughter of
Massachusetts, all sensitive, modest, and graceful; the placid belle of Pennsylvania, whose
fair complexion drew upon her all admiration; the bright-eyed Buckeye, with face so oval, than
whom none was more coy, nor ever shot a glance or stole a heart so well; the rustic daughter
of Down East, who affected great contempt for all superior people, and declared the queen not
a whit better than anybody else; the buxom Green-mountain girl, whose motion was as crude as
her cheeks were rosy; the New Hampshire prude, lisping, regardless of Murray; the statue-like
Baltimorean, with queenly figure and all lovely face, dazzling in her beauty, like a diamond
among stones less brilliant; the flirting blonde of Washington; the gracious Virginian, with
features so classic and serene; the daisy-like daughter of Connecticut, ever ready to give
out her wild unmeasured laugh--all were there. And then there came the imperious Carolinian,
whose stately step, Grecian face, dark, languishing eyes, and thoughtful countenance, drew
upon her the admiration of many an envious eye. And, to make complete the group, there moved
haughtily along the proud Madame of Alabama, affecting the possession of each good and gentle
attribute of womankind. She would have us know how much attention she drew upon her while being
presented to 'England's queen,' forgetting that it was merely the effect of her badly arranged
lace. Indeed, the conclave mingled most socially. My Lady Flippington seemed not above a modest
and very sensible condescension to the very level of the vulgar who surrounded her, and whose
friendship she seemed to court.

"Citizen Peabody, as much good nature in his broad face as benevolence in his great heart,
moved king among his guests, bestowing a smile here, and a cheering word there; but more particularly
consoling the old maids, with whom he is a great favorite. No sooner had the genteel waiter
announced the readiness of the festive board, than each gallant sought him a fair partner,
and filed off in procession, those not fortunate enough to possess such an accompaniment being
compelled to bear up with one of their own harder sex. Smooth was among the most fortunate,
having succeeded in fettering himself to a Kentucky belle. Down a long, circular stairway,
the procession proceeded, inspirited by sweet music, and soon reached a spacious hall, set
out with tables stretching along its whole length, and bedecked with the choicest viands, delicately
overlaid with fresh-plucked flowers, impregnating the very air with their delicious odors.
Indeed they looked more like beds of bright flowers trellised with silver and gold. A din of
confused voices resounded throughout the hall as all took seats who could, while not a few
added to the confusion by appropriating to themselves the seats of others. Mr. Smooth, being
a man of the world, and Mr. Pierce's minister extraordinary, took the best seat he could find,
and made himself quite at home. Opposite him loomed out the hard, knotty face of Sir James
Muke, who, suffering under the most painful grievance of having been deprived of his seat,
so generously provided in a space to the right of the chairman, let loose some very unfashionable
and badly moulded oaths. As if this were not enough, Sir James, whose temper had fairly boiled
over, and to the great annoyance of less dignified ears than his own, did hurl most indiscriminately
at the heads of astonished waiters several oaths less vile, but more pointed. 'Soup! soup!'
he demanded impatiently, at the very top of his voice--a voice that sounded like the creaking
of a door troubled with a chronic disease. Albeit there was no measuring the latitude Sir James
would have allowed his feelings to take in demanding soup, and be-d----mn the astonished servants,
had not Lady Constance Caution, who sat all calm at his left, reminded him in softest accents
that 'Citizen Peabody always invoked a blessing before he gave soup.' Sir James in response
kindly thanked my lady for her timely admonition, listened to the blessing as it fell solemnly
upon his ear, bowed and extended his plate as the spontaneous Amen concluded the seemingly
anxious moment. Calm but well directed was my lady's rebuke; deeply did it tell upon Sir James,
who, more in imitation of Smooth's coarse manners, behaved henceforth with more regard to the
feelings of those near him.

"It was now time to discuss the well-ordained set-out of viands. Round after round, the most
delicious, came on with that disorder so characteristic of English servants. It will, Uncle
Sam, be scarcely necessary for Smooth to add that great skill was displayed in safely depositing
the meats and drinks in nature's most appropriate depot. Most cheerfully was it performed to
the accompaniment of music, merry laughs, and flashes of well-worn wit: the only discord discoverable,
or which could offend delicate ears, being that one or two English Gentlemen, of very polished
manners, obstinately refused to be contented with the long list of wines provided by the generous
host, and must needs display their cultivated taste by ordering bottles of a name scarce known,
assuring the polite landlord that they themselves would pay the shot did Citizen Peabody fail
to stand it. Mr. Smooth had not the least objection to this delicate proceeding inasmuch as
it illustrated a principle, and contrasted strangely with those much cultivated manners facetious
gentlemen who so often waste ink in discoursing upon the vulgarities of Americans would have
us fashion from. Wishing, however, these gentlemen may display better manners next time, we
must beg the reader's pardon for thus digressing and proceed.

"The meats having laid a very decided foundation upon which to build a tabernacle of joviality,
and the nectar adding its exhilarating power in erecting a substratum for the fine work of
the festival, it became necessary to top off with spicy speeches, which might indeed be compared
to a compound of salt and cream very liberally mixed. From among his guests and great folks
Citizen Peabody now rose, somewhat nervous, and with becoming dignity delivered himself of
a very piquant speech, the bone and marrow of which was that Americans from home being moved
by those sentiments the appearance of things new and strange naturally produce, the sequence
was that they looked with an interest divided between reverence and curiosity to see their
Minister; such a gratification he was only too happy in being the medium of affording. Nor,
when he relieved that worthy representative of a tax his purse could ill bear, did he consider
it less than a very agreeable duty. In reply to Citizen Peabody's toast, 'Peace and continued
friendship between the peoples of England and the United States,' the guests filled a bumper,
and with three hearty cheers let the liquid run down so smoothly. Sir Arthur Coddlecomb's name
being coupled with the toast, and that compound of self-importance and bad grammar esteeming
himself a great speaker, rose, and relieved himself of what is commonly called a very neat
and appropriate speech. To Smooth his mind seemed on a wandering expedition; notwithstanding,
he took occasion to refer to that approaching curse--an Eastern war, and also to divest himself
of some very fine words, highly complimentary of America. Marked applause followed the speech,
and Sir Arthur sat down bowing.

"'The present Lord Mayor!' being drawn into the order of toasts, the individual filling that
office, a firmly compacted figure, with well-rounded limbs, and a broad, pleasing face, set
off by the addition of a well-lined nose, full intelligent eyes, a brow nicely arched, and
organically well-developed, and surmounted with a superstructure of dark, glossy hair, tinged
with grey, rose to reply. My lord, in addition to being rather shortish, possessed a countenance
indicative of amiability rather than strength of mind or force of character. 'Silence!' echoed
and reechoed through the hall, and for a few seconds all was still. Then the badge-bedecked
figure, with dignity all sublime, rose to the order. His dark eyes wandered to to the right
and left, then over the banqueting scene, and again toward the ladies. Smooth would here say,
by way of interrupting his lordship, and for the better information of his readers, that Sir
James, becoming somewhat civilized--perhaps he should say tamed,--and made conscious that he
confronted Mr. Pierce's special minister, pledged him in numerous glasses, and being now somewhat
mellow, cooled away into an all-refreshing nap, during the enjoyment of which he, with unpolished
bows, made known his approbation of each happy sentiment contained in the speeches.

"His lordship (the reader must now return) here commenced drawing from the cavities of his
deep mind all the nice sayings of which his speech was so beautifully made up. Again he paused,
made several gestures with his right hand, declared war upon all obstructing coughs, elongated
his importance as never did peacock on a shingle, and proceeded: 'My lords and gentlemen!'
Loud and good-natured laughing brought his lordship suddenly to a stop. 'My lord is not in
the--', whispered Sir Matthew Moore, who sat all facetious at his lordship's right. Sir Matthew,
significantly touching his lordship's elbow, while casting a sly wink across the table, enjoined;--'Fellow
citizens and ladies, your lordship!' His lordship's face dispensed a few gorgeous blushes as
he hesitated, and with an angular motion of the head, he convicted another cough, and made
the very best kind of a bow acknowledging the default. 'Ladies, gentlemen, fellow-citizens!'
continued his lordship, not having altogether gained the firm footing of his equilibrium--which,
however, was much relieved by sundry well-modulated bravos from the assembly--'I 'ave the 'onor'
(his lordship must be pardoned for his onslaught upon the h's) 'in happearing before this respectable
body of Hamerican gentlemen hand ladies!--ladies hand gentlemen! (his lordship suddenly corrected
himself), let it not be thought that I ham bestowing flattery when I say I esteem it an 'onor
which I cannot too highly characterize, and for which I am so deeply indebted to my friend
who 'as so long and nobly contributed to the durability of friendly intercourse between the
two greatest and most enlightened peoples on earth--the man whom I am compelled to view as
the greatest living diplomatist of the hage!' Here the company, with one accord, made a bow,
while Sir Matthew interrupted his lordship by whispering, 'Nicholas of All the Russias excepted!'
His lordship, with a peremptory glance at Sir Matthew, the meaning of which it was not easy
to mistake, continued, somewhat testily:--'I will make no single exception for any such renegade!'
Turning to the chairman, he reminded minded him of Sir Matthew's rejoinder, which he assured
him he could not consider, unless indeed he sacrificed the high functions of that great office
to which the voice of a people true to their traditions, and Providence, had so significantly
called him at this all momentous moment--the breaking out of an Eastern war! 'No less surprized
than hoverjoyed am I to meet so respectable looking an assemblage of citizens of that great
country in the West, which we naturally view as the exponent of true independence, as well
as our great hoffspring. Would hi, as the great representative of this city, be saying too
much while asserting that in my 'umble opinion no one part of this expansive hearth (great
applause) could send forth so respectable and orderly an assemblage of persons.' The ladies
here shouted, and waved their handkerchiefs. Having received this distinguished compliment
with due dignity, he commenced drawing aside the curtain that we might know more of his early
history, which he felt assured in his own mind could not fail to hinterest the citizens of
the United States in general, seeing that he belonged not to the 'haristocracy.' (This was
received with a perfect explosion of applause.) In the days of his youth, when geographies
were made without reference to correctness, and the study of globes was considered equal to
the minds of those only who were learned enough to raise the devil, had he been taught from
one of those imperfect pasteboards that Hamerica was an immense expanse of forests, inhabited
by wild Hindians and curiously formed barbarians. And the impression thus made, he assured
Mr. Smooth in particular, had so enrooted itself in his mind that he ever and anon found himself
most mysteriously contemplating the want of a state of civilization in that great and glorious
country. (Deafening applause). Here his lordship's animation was at the highest pressure; indeed
so high was it, that a very respectable gentleman, sitting not far from Smooth, bowed, and
suggested that the little Lord Mayor must have mistaken the present company for his dining
senate. 'Now,' continued his worship, emphatically, 'nothing could more happily 'ave affected
a change in my mind, than the beholding with my own eyes the lovely fair ones and respectable
persons here present. To that great country, Hamerica, shall I hereafter look for the noblest
results to civilization and mankind. (Cheers). It is now nearly two 'undred years since the
foundation stone of that great republic was laid by the immortal Washington.' His lordship's
speech was again interrupted by a demonstration of surprise on the part of the audience. He
paused a moment, as if questioning the cause. Sir Mathew's aid was again called into service;
reminding his lordship that his history was at fault, he added, in a tone most prudent, 'Not
yet one hundred, my lord; 1776 marks the date of the declaration of independence.' Thanking
Sir Mathew for the kindly hint, he apologized to his hearers, and proceeded. 'One hundred years,
then have hardly rolled around, and we find that wonderful country presided over by a commoner--the
choice of a free people, who raise him to that proud eminence once every eight years--vieing
(here Sir Mathew again interrupted by saying, 'Every four years, my lord!') with the oldest
and most powerful nations of Europe. Thanks, Sir Mathew,' interpolated his lordship, rather
tartly, turning round. His Honor now proceeded for some time on a rather smooth course, except
that he left out a great many h's and put in a great many a's. The great minds of America,
he said, had done a world for her greatness. Here he condescended to pay what he was pleased
to consider a very deserved compliment to General Flum of New York, whose broad and deeply
wrinkled face he espied at the extreme end of one of the long tables, where it loomed up like
a careworn lantern amidst a cluster of delicately tinted foliage. America, said his lordship,
sought her great men, not from among the effete walks of the haristocracy, from the more legitimate
hemisphere--the common walks of life. With a strange elongation of the body did our speaker
emphasize the remark. Great men were the gift of an age, and a nation's fortune; and with which
he was more than happy to say Hamerica had been blessed--would that his conscience and love
of truth would permit him to say as much of his own country! He saw the personification and
embodiment of America's great minds in the countenance of his much esteemed friend General
Flum, whom his very soul joyed at recognizing present. (We will here add, by way of parenthesis,
that the knowing ones of New York had a less exalted opinion of Flum's talent, which had remained
hid under a pewter pot, but for General Pierce, who dragged it to the light of day for the
purpose of eventually harmonizing his cabinet). Fortunate was it for the welfare of a great
country that such men existed; they seemed born to a special purpose, which to him was a medium
of conserving and protecting the great international well-being of the two peoples. That purpose
was the greatest the world could contemplate in this great age of pounds, shillings, and pence;
and with such a mind as he knew General Flum possessed, and the stronger arguments with which
the generous host had conciliated all differences international, the two countries were sure
to continue in a bond of friendship. To this distinguished compliment our general was pleased
to make an approving bow. Again, his honor, in compliment of himself, informed those present
that nothing could be more significant of divine will than that at this momentous crisis, when
a bloody war was on the eve of hurling its vengeance over Europe, and devastating the nations,
he should be called to hadminister those high functions of a nation the duties of his office
involved; and, too, when an opportunity would be afforded him of exercising those mental gifts
with which God had happily and liberally endowed him. With the full force of this valuable
interposition he had not a doubt but that the peace and harmony of the world would again be
restored. Nor should her Majesty's ministers ever ask in vain his advice;[*] and, as to the
right of impeaching them, he would tenaciously reserve that to himself on all occasions. Whenever
they evinced want of hexperience, his knowledge of hintricate questions and mystifying diplomacy
should always be at their disposal. A single flourish more, his face glowing earnest, and the
little great man proposed (having reiterated that great men were the gift of an age!) 'The
great minds of America!' This inspiring sentiment he coupled with the name of General Plum,
and sat down amidst a shower of very good-natured applause.

[Footnote: His Honor recently brought forward in the Board of Aldermen a resolution having
for its object the impeachment of Lord Aberdeen and his cabinet.]

"This compliment, as the vulgar say, took Plum all aback. He rose in all the dignity of a Pierce
diplomatist; his face brightened, conscious of merit; his tall loose figure elongated; he mastered
several very ill-positioned coughs, and with glances very congressional, as if seeking a reportorial
eye, spoke as modern politicians mostly do when President-making. But before Smooth proceeds
to transcribe the elements of his speech, some description of his person may be necessary;
in truth, he hears the reader demanding it. Flum is a long-jointed man, tall and coarse of
figure, has a broad inexpressive face, with a spacious mouth and thin lips, disclosing irregular
and discolored teeth; to which is added a sharp, projecting chin, prominent cheek bones, lazy
grey eyes, deeply sunken under narrow arches slightly fringed with short, sprouting, reddish
hairs, and a thin high bridged nose, forming a curvature on the ridge, and twisted to the left
at an angle of some twenty-two degrees. This singular deformity of the nasal organ arose from
the fact of its having been in contact with the hard hand of a pugilistic congressman; at least
so went report. To those exhibiting nice taste for the appearance of our political gentry,
we would say that the general, not at all like Smooth, added to the beauty of his personel
a low, reclining forehead, superstructed with bright crispy hair, that stood confused all over
his head, and gave him the appearance of having been chased by some infuriated bull. Of the
general's general estimation of his own capacity, Smooth is sure the reader will not impose
a penalty so far beyond his humble capacity as that of finding within this narrow world of
ordinary presumption anything with which to compare it successfully. Having had many misfortunes
in his upward career of political life, which was singularly marked with disappointments, notwithstanding
he had lent forcible aid in making many a President, he never has permitted the strongest opinion
of his own talent to die out from his mind; and now that that well-cultivated opinion is made
stronger by the all-important verdict of his eloquent worship, how can he resist the real proof
of his being a much-neglected great man? 'Mr. Chairman, and fellow citizens!' ejaculated Flum,
nervously. 'My friend, the Lord Mayor, has paid a well and much deserved compliment to our
country, our country's institutions, and our country's great minds. So, far, ladies and gentlemen,
as that compliment applies to myself, I may or may not have deserved it; delicacy and reserve
are always the noblest attributes of great men. But--and with all due deference to those accomplished
gentlemen of England do I say it--it is to the democratic character of our institutions that
we owe the usefulness of those great minds, as reflected in our country's greatness. Yes ladies
and gentlemen, the democracy!--'

"Here Flum was interrupted by Sam Spooner from Boston, who sat at his left, and with a gentle
touch on the arm, reminded him in a careless whisper, that Citizen Peabody, although a very
unostentatious man, was no democrat; nor was it certain the ladies would all be inclined to
father his adoption.

"Flum, somewhat nonplused, allowed a smile of endurance to invade his broad inexpressive face,
and rejoined with what he was pleased to consider very nice wit. 'If Citizen Peabody,' said
he, 'be not an independent democrat I am exceedingly sorry for it--nothing more being required
to make him a perfect man!' At this the company set up one of the very best-natured laughs
ever rung out of human organs. Flum, not comprehending its meaning, continued, ere it had subsided--'I
hold nothing more imperative than that our generous host, Citizen Peabody, should at once declare
his intention of not only becoming a round, sound democrat, but joining the Young American
party; which will in truth be a more forcible proof of the purely democratic spirit of that
diplomacy he has so worthily founded, and which can now claim so many happy results as its
offspring. No system of diplomacy heretofore established has been so redolent of influences
tending to strengthen the bonds of international amity; for, indeed, meats and drinks are all-powerful.'
Here some indifference was manifested on the part of the English aristocracy present, which,
causing a momentary suspension of the speech, produced a very unexpected calm, much to the
astonishment of Flum's own dear self. 'Well, I apprehends the gist on't--democracy don't go
down, no way, this side the big pond. But, if John is old, and has got his noddle so full of
antiquated nonsense that he can't get an idea into his head suited to the exigencies of the
times, democracy, with its all-elevating power, will stand by him, give him new sinners to
sustain himself, and carry him through those struggles aristocracy has not nerve to surmount.'
(Cheers). Having literally illustrated every beauty to which democracy was heir, wasted several
well-constructed and not badly directed compliments on General Pierce's patriotism, called
upon those present to come boldly out and imitate Young America in all his go-ahead proficiencies,
Flum turned to his worship, on which wonderful embodiment of statesmanship and experience he
intended to return the compliments that functionary had so flatteringly bestowed. As disappointments
will occur, even with the greatest of men, so did Flum find himself totally inadequate to the
discharge of this duty. There was, however, a responsibility resting upon him, which he must,
considering that it touched that which was an honor to England and the English nation, discharge.
It was, that he had to congratulate old England on the possession of such men as his Worship--men
born to the exigencies of an age, and in whose charge the distracted affairs of Europe, now
threatening the peace of nations, would be sure to find a satisfactory solution. Here his honor
made a most appropriate bow in acknowledgment, while a few gentlemen, rather loquaciously disposed,
smiled and Miss Mapplebank, from Arkansas, covered her face with her white handkerchief. It
was evident to all present that the two greatest men of the two greatest countries had met
on a great international platform (the banqueting table), and as the exchange of verdicts upon
the capacity of each other only served to make stronger the opinion they had always entertained
of themselves, everyone present was ready to throw up his or her hat in compliment of a discovery
which must reflect to the great good of nations in general. Flum ended his speech, the mediums
had met; international unity was perfect. Mr. Peabody bowed, the great men signified their
acknowledgment, the company rose as the general made his last flourish and wiped the sweat
from his brow, and all adjourned in the very happiest phase of good humor. Smooth being somewhat
modest, and always bashful when in the presence of ladies, did not make his speech until they
had left. It may be well to say that Mr. Smooth's speech was gracefully responded to by Citizen
Peabody, who expressed himself delighted, and had no doubt but that in the care of Mr. Smooth,
General Pierce would make an unexceptional President. After this, gentlemen feeling very jolly,
we all adjourned to the gorgeously furnished hall up stairs, where we joined the ladies, partook
of most delicious coffee, enjoyed many happy salutations and cordial greetings. The Lord Mayor
and Flum having embraced in style truly Roman, and pledged themselves over a cup of coffee,
never to lose sight of their own greatness, nor to forget the beneficence of that all-wise
Providence that had called them into being to struggle with the great events of the age, the
company dispersed homeward, delighted to the very heart. If there was one who did not feel
a glow of satisfaction, admonishing him, as he wended his way homeward, to lend his influence
for the maintenance of that mutual good feeling which should exist between Englishmen and Americans--between
nations so kindred in spirit, and whose interests radiated from a common centre, he must have
belonged to a class Smooth would not deign to designate. Citizen George would that England
and America shook hands, remained friends, and left the gunpowder and big-word business entirely
to newspapers and small politicians of the Pierce stamp.

CHAPTER XVII.

SMOOTH LOOKS IN UPON THE MIXED COMMISSION.

"Mr. President Pierce, who was by his friends supposed to be a comical and very small miniature
of General Jackson's political school, and whose cabinet was of the Bunkum stripe, intimated
to Minister Smooth, in one of the interviews he had with him, which were numerous and very
confidential, that in his tour over Europe it might prove profitable to the country in general
were he to keep a sharp eye on the movements of a very respectable firm which did business
under the name and in the style of Soule, Saunders, and Co.--funny functionaries, who were
now cutting figure No. 1, and expecting him (the man Pierce) to cut the smaller figure No.
2. No one personally acquainted with the merits of the aforesaid gentlemen would be surprised
to hear that they had threatened kingdoms, emperors, and kings, astonished peoples, and given
deluded individuals wonderful opinions of that country which could send such embodiments of
its wisdom and spirits to their aid. Indeed, Smooth found himself, while in Europe, made an
exception to the generality of Mr. Pierce's diplomatists, whom, it was generally admitted,
had either shown spunk or turned gentlemen fighters to no account. It mattered not how much
these strange sprigs of capricious Young America misrepresented American manners, education,
and sentiments; no, to revolutionary spirits of the real-red order were they the all-great
of America's bone and soul. But let us not arouse the gods by recounting their many follies;
the generous soul of America has indeed been compelled by them to father many an extravagance;
and, too, though more modest, had not Mr. Pierce delegated extensive powers to the Tomkin's
family for the very harmless purpose of transacting over the world such business as old Sam
had several times declared unnecessary, and which was in opposition to the interests of the
nation, the said Sam being expected to pay all the shot. Pierce said Smooth must keep an eye
practically to windward in reference to the business this species of gentry were sent to perform.
Hence, acting from principle, which was Smooth's motto, and with a full knowledge that Sam
was curiously good-natured, had broad and ever open pockets to accommodate that worthy characteristic,
which no one thought it any harm to relieve, he gave his (Smooth's) assurance that the charge
of neglect never should be laid at his door--that he would watch the Tomkinses! To deny the
existence of a singular prompting to kill time over aught that Sam stood sponsor for, was a
very good-natured absurdity; few indeed could be found who did not consider him an old foodle,
who had fathered more expensive abortions than any other individual, and was willing to father
more. How, then, could Mr. Pierce help viewing with suspicion the performances of those tool-grinders
he had sent abroad! The amount of kitchen labor he had himself performed and the number of
times he had laid on the grindstone to the turning of his man Fourney, formed no excuse; forsooth,
it enabled him the more clearly to comprehend the ins and outs of this wholesale style of coming
possum over poor old Sam, whose credulity was only surpassed by that fatherly old gentleman,
Mr. John Bull, whom millions love to live upon, and spend their lives in getting out his affections
and his purse.

"Now John and Jonathan had for many years amused one another with the long-drawn music of diplomacy,
played on very expensive keys, made with the express view of settling all ungrateful international
growlings. Diplomacy, nevertheless, found these growlings beyond its power to reconcile; and
now, having worn out its pipe over them, they were shuffled off upon the genius of a mixed
commission, which high convention was expected to exert common sense and forego etiquette,
and result in a mutual settlement of all outstanding questions since 1812. But, by a mysterious
process, which never fails of effect in such cases, a deal of time had been unprofitably consumed
by this supposed immaculate commission. And now the high contracting parties sought an extension,
that much more might be consumed in the very same way. Uncle Sam being very good-natured, the
request could not be refused.

"Through the Strand to Wellington street, Mister Smooth wended his way, and soon found himself
between rows of high and stately buildings, in one of which, all calm and easy, sat the convention.
Entering a narrow arch to the right, he passed down a passage so intricate and dark that it
had the appearance of leading to a cave, and in a few minutes was confronted by a polite attendant,
who ushered him into the presence of the international dignitaries, then sitting round a large
square table, in the centre of the room, in moody contemplation. The room was high of ceiling,
about twenty-five by eighteen feet in dimensions, and in appearance very well adapted to the
pursuit of knowledge, for the display of legal ability. Upon the table, which seemed somewhat
infirm, lay in excellent disorder, a few massive books, two green bags, a jacknife, Murray's
Grammar, Walker's largest Dictionary, four large pipes, an ample supply of fine-cut tobacco,
and sundry very bad writing materials. In one corner of the room spread out a green screen,
behind which was various simple but very useful ware; this, together with two extra chairs
for strangers, standing at the other corner, constituted the furniture. There was a strong
legal air about the table, notwithstanding its promiscuous burden. At the head of it sat like
Cicero--but he had none of Cicero's genius in his soul!--a man moody of countenance and portly
of person: he was called the Umpire, and they said he was chosen because of his birthplace
being America. Some had gone so far as to characterize the choice an evidence that Mr. Bull
was inclined to act upon the square, and permit Cousin Jonathan to have it all his own way,--never
for once keeping in mind that it mattered but little where a man's birthplace was, if he had
long since forgotten the spirit of its institutions. Indeed, as far as sympathy and manners
are concerned, an American may be more than an Englishman, and vice versa. Smooth does not
mean to insinuate that the case is illustrated in the present functionary, whose face was of
that stern cast which at times would lead to believe it unhappy under the fatigue of a too
solid body. To this singularly stern face was added a nose, facetious gentlemen might be inclined
to call the ripening fruits of good wine, while pervading all was an air of sordidness curiously
at variance with the good parts repute asserted he possessed. Smooth would have taken him for
a man whose mind was of a mechanical turn; for at times he would become dreamy, his eyes would
close within leaden lids, and his body seem prone to cool away into sleep's gentlest embrace.
Again he would, as if with much effort, raise those leaden eyelids, draw forth a languid breath,
stretch his arms athwart, and, as if 'twere pain, listen to the legal logic boring its dryness
into his very soul. The tax did indeed seem beyond his power of endurance.

