MORNING ON THE BEACH--THE THREE LETTERS       19

     III. THE OLD CALABOOSE--DESTINY AT THE DOOR        29

      IV. THE YELLOW FLAG                               39

       V. THE CARGO OF CHAMPAGNE                        46

      VI. THE PARTNERS                                  69

  PART II.--THE QUARTETTE

     VII. THE PEARL-FISHER                              81

    VIII. BETTER ACQUAINTANCE                           96

      IX. THE DINNER PARTY                             109

       X. THE OPEN DOOR                                118

      XI. DAVID AND GOLIATH                            131

     XII. A TAIL-PIECE                                 151

  WEIR OF HERMISTON

    Introductory                                       159

       I. Life and Death of Mrs. Weir                  161

      II. Father and Son                               175

     III. In the Matter of the Hanging of Duncan Jopp  181

      IV. Opinions of the Bench                        196

       V. Winter on the Moors:
           1. At Hermiston                             205
           2. Kirstie                                  208
           3. A Border Family                          212

      VI. A Leaf from Christina's Psalm-Book           228

     VII. Enter Mephistopheles                         253

    VIII. A Nocturnal Visit                            270

      IX. At the Weaver's Stone                        278

    Sir Sidney Colvin's Note                           284

    Glossary of Scots Words                            297

THE EBB-TIDE

      A Trio and Quartette

  WRITTEN IN COLLABORATION WITH
         LLOYD OSBOURNE

  "There is a tide in the affairs of men"

NOTE.--On the pronunciation of a name very frequently repeated in these pages, the reader may
take for a guide--

  "It was the schooner Farallone."

     R. L. S.--L. O.

NOTE BY MR. LLOYD OSBOURNE

Stevenson and I little knew, when we began our collaboration, that we were afterwards to raise
such a hornets' nest about our ears. The critics resented such an unequal partnership, and
made it impossible for us to continue it. It may be that they were right; they wanted Stevenson's
best, and felt pretty sure they would not get it in our collaboration. But when they ascribed
all the good in our three books to Stevenson and all the bad to me, they went a little beyond
the mark. It is a pleasure to me to recall that the early part of both "The Wrecker" and "The
Ebb-Tide" was almost entirely my own; so also were the storm scenes of the Norah Creina; so
also the fight on the Flying Scud; so also the inception of Huish's scheme, the revelation
of it to his companions, his landing on the atoll with the bottle of vitriol in his breast.
On the other hand, the Paris portion of "The Wrecker" was all Stevenson's, as well as the concluding
chapters of both the South Sea books.

It is not possible to disentangle anything else that was wholly mine or his--the blending was
too complete, our method of work too criss-crossed and intimate. For instance, we would begin
by outlining the story in a general way; this done, we marshalled it into chapters, with a
few explanatory words to each; then it was for me to write the first draft of Chapter I. This
I would read to him, and if satisfactory it was laid to one side; but were it not, I would
rewrite it, embodying his criticisms. Each chapter in turn was fully discussed in advance before
I put pen to paper; and in this way, though the actual first draft was in my own hand, the
form of the story continually took shape under Stevenson's eyes. When my first draft of the
entire book was finished he would rewrite it again from cover to cover.

I can remember nothing more delightful than the days we thus passed together. If our three
books are in no wise great, they preserve, it seems to me, something of the zest and exhilaration
that went into their making--the good humour, the eagerness.

We were both under the glamour of the Islands--and that life, so strange, so picturesque, so
animated, took us both by storm. Kings and beachcombers, pearl-fishers and princesses, traders,
slavers, and schooner-captains, castaways, and runaways--what a world it was! And all this
in a fairyland of palms, and glassy bays, and little lost settlements nestling at the foot
of forest and mountain, with kings to make brotherhood with us, and a dubious white man or
two, in earrings and pyjamas, no less insistent to extend to us the courtesies of the "beach."

It was amid such people, and amid such scenes, that "The Ebb-Tide" and "The Wrecker" were written.

     LLOYD OSBOURNE.

PART I

THE TRIO

THE EBB-TIDE

CHAPTER I

NIGHT ON THE BEACH

Throughout the island world of the Pacific, scattered men of many European races, and from
almost every grade of society, carry activity and disseminate disease. Some prosper, some vegetate.
Some have mounted the steps of thrones and owned islands and navies. Others again must marry
for a livelihood; a strapping, merry, chocolate-coloured dame supports them in sheer idleness;
and, dressed like natives, but still retaining some foreign element of gait or attitude, still
perhaps with some relic (such as a single eye-glass) of the officer and gentleman, they sprawl
in palm-leaf verandahs and entertain an island audience with memoirs of the music-hall. And
there are still others, less pliable, less capable, less fortunate, perhaps less base, who
continue, even in these isles of plenty, to lack bread.

At the far end of the town of Papeete, three such men were seated on the beach under a purao-tree.

It was late. Long ago the band had broken up and marched musically home, a motley troop of
men and women, merchant clerks and navy officers, dancing in its wake, arms about waist and
crowned with garlands. Long ago darkness and silence had gone from house to house about the
tiny pagan city. Only the street-lamps shone on, making a glow-worm halo in the umbrageous
alleys, or drawing a tremulous image on the waters of the port. A sound of snoring ran among
the piles of lumber by the Government pier. It was wafted ashore from the graceful clipper-bottomed
schooners, where they lay moored close in like dinghies, and their crews were stretched upon
the deck under the open sky or huddled in a rude tent amidst the disorder of merchandise.

But the men under the purao had no thought of sleep. The same temperature in England would
have passed without remark in summer; but it was bitter cold for the South Seas. Inanimate
nature knew it, and the bottle of cocoa-nut oil stood frozen in every bird-cage house about
the island; and the men knew it, and shivered. They wore flimsy cotton clothes, the same they
had sweated in by day and run the gauntlet of the tropic showers; and to complete their evil
case, they had no breakfast to mention, less dinner, and no supper at all.

In the telling South Sea phrase, these three men were on the beach. Common calamity had brought
them acquainted, as the three most miserable English-speaking creatures in Tahiti; and beyond
their misery, they knew next to nothing of each other, not even their true names. For each
had made a long apprenticeship in going downward; and each, at some stage of the descent, had
been shamed into the adoption of an alias. And yet not one of them had figured in a court of
justice; two were men of kindly virtues; and one, as he sat and shivered under the purao, had
a tattered Virgil in his pocket.

Certainly, if money could have been raised upon the book, Robert Herrick would long ago have
sacrificed that last possession; but the demand for literature, which is so marked a feature
in some parts of the South Seas, extends not so far as the dead tongues; and the Virgil, which
he could not exchange against a meal, had often consoled him in his hunger. He would study
it, as he lay with tightened belt on the floor of the old calaboose, seeking favourite passages
and finding new ones only less beautiful because they lacked the consecration of remembrance.
Or he would pause on random country walks; sit on the path-side, gazing over the sea on the
mountains of Eimeo; and dip into the Aeneid, seeking sortes. And if the oracle (as is the way
of oracles) replied with no very certain nor encouraging voice, visions of England at least
would throng upon the exile's memory: the busy schoolroom, the green playing-fields, holidays
at home, and the perennial roar of London, and the fireside, and the white head of his father.
For it is the destiny of those grave, restrained, and classic writers, with whom we make enforced
and often painful acquaintanceship at school, to pass into the blood and become native in the
memory; so that a phrase of Virgil speaks not so much of Mantua or Augustus, but of English
places and the student's own irrevocable youth.

Robert Herrick was the son of an intelligent, active, and ambitious man, small partner in a
considerable London house. Hopes were conceived of the boy; he was sent to a good school, gained
there an Oxford scholarship, and proceeded in course to the western University. With all his
talent and taste (and he had much of both) Robert was deficient in consistency and intellectual
manhood, wandered in bypaths of study, worked at music or at metaphysics when he should have
been at Greek, and took at last a paltry degree. Almost at the same time, the London house
was disastrously wound up; Mr. Herrick must begin the world again as a clerk in a strange office,
and Robert relinquish his ambitions and accept with gratitude a career that he detested and
despised. He had no head for figures, no interest in affairs, detested the constraint of hours,
and despised the aims and the success of merchants. To grow rich was none of his ambitions;
rather to do well. A worse or a more bold young man would have refused the destiny; perhaps
tried his future with his pen; perhaps enlisted. Robert, more prudent, possibly more timid,
consented to embrace that way of life in which he could most readily assist his family. But
he did so with a mind divided; fled the neighbourhood of former comrades; and chose, out of
several positions placed at his disposal, a clerkship in New York.

His career thenceforth was one of unbroken shame. He did not drink, he was exactly honest,
he was never rude to his employers, yet was everywhere discharged. Bringing no interest to
his duties, he brought no attention; his day was a tissue of things neglected and things done
amiss; and from place to place, and from town to town, he carried the character of one thoroughly
incompetent. No man can bear the word applied to him without some flush of colour, as indeed
there is none other that so emphatically slams in a man's face the door of self-respect. And
to Herrick, who was conscious of talents and acquirements, who looked down upon those humble
duties in which he was found wanting, the pain was the more exquisite. Early in his fall he
had ceased to be able to make remittances; shortly after, having nothing but failure to communicate,
he ceased writing home; and about a year before this tale begins, turned suddenly upon the
streets of San Francisco by a vulgar and infuriated German Jew, he had broken the last bonds
of self-respect, and, upon a sudden impulse, changed his name and invested his last dollar
in a passage on the mail brigantine, the City of Papeete. With what expectation he had trimmed
his flight for the South Seas, Herrick perhaps scarcely knew. Doubtless there were fortunes
to be made in pearl and copra; doubtless others not more gifted than himself had climbed in
the island world to be queen's consorts and king's ministers. But if Herrick had gone there
with any manful purpose, he would have kept his father's name; the alias betrayed his moral
bankruptcy; he had struck his flag; he entertained no hope to reinstate himself or help his
straitened family; and he came to the islands (where he knew the climate to be soft, bread
cheap, and manners easy) a skulker from life's battle and his own immediate duty. Failure,
he had said, was his portion; let it be a pleasant failure.

It is fortunately not enough to say, "I will be base." Herrick continued in the islands his
career of failure; but in the new scene and under the new name, he suffered no less sharply
than before. A place was got, it was lost in the old style; from the long-suffering of the
keepers of restaurants he fell to more open charity upon the wayside; as time went on, good-nature
became weary, and, after a repulse or two, Herrick became shy. There were women enough who
would have supported a far worse and a far uglier man; Herrick never met or never knew them:
or if he did both, some manlier feeling would revolt, and he preferred starvation. Drenched
with rains, broiling by day, shivering by night, a disused and ruinous prison for a bedroom,
his diet begged or pilfered out of rubbish heaps, his associates two creatures equally outcast
with himself, he had drained for months the cup of penitence. He had known what it was to be
resigned, what it was to break forth in a childish fury of rebellion against fate, and what
it was to sink into the coma of despair. The time had changed him. He told himself no longer
tales of an easy and perhaps agreeable declension; he read his nature otherwise; he had proved
himself incapable of rising, and he now learned by experience that he could not stoop to fall.
Something that was scarcely pride or strength, that was perhaps only refinement, withheld him
from capitulation; but he looked on upon his own misfortune with a growing rage, and sometimes
wondered at his patience.

It was now the fourth month completed, and still there was no change or sign of change. The
moon, racing through a world of flying clouds of every size and shape and density, some black
as inkstains, some delicate as lawn, threw the marvel of her southern brightness over the same
lovely and detested scene: the island mountains crowned with the perennial island cloud, the
embowered city studded with rare lamps, the masts in the harbour, the smooth mirror of the
lagoon, and the mole of the barrier reef on which the breakers whitened. The moon shone too,
with bull's-eye sweeps, on his companions; on the stalwart frame of the American who called
himself Brown, and was known to be a master-mariner in some disgrace; and on the dwarfish person,
the pale eyes and toothless smile of a vulgar and bad-hearted cockney clerk. Here was society
for Robert Herrick! The Yankee skipper was a man at least: he had sterling qualities of tenderness
and resolution: he was one whose hand you could take without a blush. But there was no redeeming
grace about the other, who called himself sometimes Hay and sometimes Tomkins, and laughed
at the discrepancy; who had been employed in every store in Papeete, for the creature was able
in his way; who had been discharged from each in turn, for he was wholly vile; who had alienated
all his old employers so that they passed him in the street as if he were a dog, and all his
old comrades so that they shunned him as they would a creditor.

Not long before, a ship from Peru had brought an influenza, and it now raged in the island,
and particularly in Papeete. From all round the purao arose and fell a dismal sound of men
coughing, and strangling as they coughed. The sick natives, with the islander's impatience
of a touch of fever, had crawled from their houses to be cool, and, squatting on the shore
or on the beached canoes, painfully expected the new day. Even as the crowing of cocks goes
about the country in the night from farm to farm, accesses of coughing arose and spread, and
died in the distance, and sprang up again. Each miserable shiverer caught the suggestion from
his neighbour, was torn for some minutes by that cruel ecstasy, and left spent and without
voice or courage when it passed. If a man had pity to spend, Papeete beach, in that cold night
and in that infected season, was a place to spend it on. And of all the sufferers perhaps the
least deserving, but surely the most pitiable, was the London clerk. He was used to another
life, to houses, beds, nursing, and the dainties of the sick-room; he lay here now, in the
cold open, exposed to the gusting of the wind, and with an empty belly. He was besides infirm;
the disease shook him to the vitals; and his companions watched his endurance with surprise.
A profound commiseration filled them, and contended with and conquered their abhorrence. The
disgust attendant on so ugly a sickness magnified this dislike; at the same time, and with
more than compensating strength, shame for a sentiment so inhuman bound them the more straitly
to his service; and even the evil they knew of him swelled their solicitude, for the thought
of death is always the least supportable when it draws near to the merely sensual and selfish.
Sometimes they held him up; sometimes, with mistaken helpfulness, they beat him between the
shoulders; and when the poor wretch lay back ghastly and spent after a paroxysm of coughing,
they would sometimes peer into his face, doubtfully exploring it for any mark of life. There
is no one but has some virtue: that of the clerk was courage; and he would make haste to reassure
them in a pleasantry not always decent.

"I'm all right, pals," he gasped once: "this is the thing to strengthen the muscles of the larynx."

"Well, you take the cake!" cried the captain.

"O, I'm good plucked enough," pursued the sufferer with a broken utterance. "But it do seem
bloomin' hard to me, that I should be the only party down with this form of vice, and the only
one to do the funny business. I think one of you other parties might wake up. Tell a fellow
something."

"The trouble is we've nothing to tell, my son," returned the captain.

"I'll tell you, if you like, what I was thinking," said Herrick.

"Tell us anything," said the clerk, "I only want to be reminded that I ain't dead."

Herrick took up his parable, lying on his face and speaking slowly and scarce above his breath,
not like a man who has anything to say, but like one talking against time.

"Well, I was thinking this," he began: "I was thinking I lay on Papeete beach one night--all
moon and squalls and fellows coughing--and I was cold and hungry, and down in the mouth, and
was about ninety years of age, and had spent two hundred and twenty of them on Papeete beach.
And I was thinking I wished I had a ring to rub, or had a fairy godmother, or could raise Beelzebub.
And I was trying to remember how you did it. I knew you made a ring of skulls, for I had seen
that in the Freischütz: and that you took off your coat and turned up your sleeves, for I had
seen Formes do that when he was playing Kaspar, and you could see (by the way he went about
it) it was a business he had studied; and that you ought to have something to kick up a smoke
and a bad smell, I daresay a cigar might do, and that you ought to say the Lord's Prayer backwards.
Well, I wondered if I could do that; it seemed rather a feat, you see. And then I wondered
if I would say it forward, and I thought I did. Well, no sooner had I got to world without
end, than I saw a man in a pariu, and with a mat under his arm, come along the beach from the
town. He was rather a hard-favoured old party, and he limped and crippled, and all the time
he kept coughing. At first I didn't cotton to his looks, I thought, and then I got sorry for
the old soul because he coughed so hard. I remembered that we had some of that cough mixture
the American consul gave the captain for Hay. It never did Hay a ha'porth of service, but I
thought it might do the old gentleman's business for him, and stood up. 'Yorana!' says I. 'Yorana!'
says he. 'Look here,' I said, 'I've got some first-rate stuff in a bottle; it'll fix your cough,
savvy? Harry my[1] and I'll measure you a tablespoonful in the palm of my hand, for all our
plate is at the bankers.' So I thought the old party came up, and the nearer he came the less
I took to him. But I had passed my word, you see."

"Wot is this bloomin' drivel?" interrupted the clerk. "It's like the rot there is in tracts."

"It's a story; I used to tell them to the kids at home," said Herrick. "If it bores you, I'll
drop it."

"O, cut along!" returned the sick man irritably. "It's better than nothing."

"Well," continued Herrick, "I had no sooner given him the cough mixture than he seemed to straighten
up and change, and I saw he wasn't a Tahitian after all, but some kind of Arab, and had a long
beard on his chin. 'One good turn deserves another,' says he. 'I am a magician out of the "Arabian
Nights," and this mat that I have under my arm is the original carpet of Mohammed Ben Somebody-or-other.
Say the word, and you can have a cruise upon the carpet.' 'You don't mean to say this is the
Travelling Carpet?' I cried. 'You bet I do,' said he. 'You've been to America since last I
read the "Arabian Nights,"' said I, a little suspicious. 'I should think so,' said he. 'Been
everywhere. A man with a carpet like this isn't going to moulder in a semi-detached villa.'
Well, that struck me as reasonable. 'All right,' I said; 'and do you mean to tell me I can
get on that carpet and go straight to London, England?' I said 'London, England,' captain,
because he seemed to have been so long in your part of the world. 'In the crack of a whip,'
said he. I figured up the time. What is the difference between Papeete and London, captain?"

"Taking Greenwich and Point Venus, nine hours, odd minutes and seconds," replied the mariner.

"Well, that's about what I made it," resumed Herrick, "about nine hours. Calling this three
in the morning, I made out I would drop into London about noon; and the idea tickled me immensely.
'There's only one bother,' I said, 'I haven't a copper cent. It would be a pity to go to London
and not buy the morning Standard.' 'O!' said he, 'you don't realise the conveniences of this
carpet. You see this pocket? you've only got to stick your hand in, and you pull it out filled
with sovereigns.'"

"Double-eagles, wasn't it?" inquired the captain.

"That was what it was!" cried Herrick. "I thought they seemed unusually big, and I remember
now I had to go to the money-changers at Charing Cross and get English silver."

"O, you went there?" said the clerk. "Wot did you do? Bet you had a B.-and-S.!"

"Well, you see, it was just as the old boy said--like the cut of a whip," said Herrick. "The
one minute I was here on the beach at three in the morning, the next I was in front of the
Golden Cross at midday. At first I was dazzled, and covered my eyes, and there didn't seem
the smallest change; the roar of the Strand and the roar of the reef were like the same: hark
to it now, and you can hear the cabs and 'buses rolling and the streets resound! And then at
last I could look about, and there was the old place, and no mistake! With the statues in the
square, and St. Martin's-in-the-Fields, and the bobbies, and the sparrows, and the hacks; and
I can't tell you what I felt like. I felt like crying, I believe, or dancing, or jumping clean
over the Nelson Column. I was like a fellow caught up out of Hell and flung down into the dandiest
part of Heaven. Then I spotted for a hansom with a spanking horse. 'A shilling for yourself
if you're there in twenty minutes!' said I to the jarvey. He went a good pace, though of course
it was a trifle to the carpet; and in nineteen minutes and a half I was at the door."

"What door?" asked the captain.

"O, a house I know of," returned Herrick.

"Bet it was a public-house!" cried the clerk,--only these were not his words. "And w'y didn't
you take the carpet there instead of trundling in a growler?"

"I didn't want to startle a quiet street," said the narrator. "Bad form. And besides, it was
a hansom."

"Well, and what did you do next?" inquired the captain.

"O, I went in," said Herrick.

"The old folks?" asked the captain.

"That's about it," said the other, chewing a grass.

"Well, I think you are about the poorest 'and at a yarn!" cried the clerk. "Crikey, it's like
'Ministering Children!' I can tell you there would be more beer and skittles about my little
jaunt. I would go and have a B.-and-S. for luck. Then I would get a big ulster with astrakhan
fur, and take my cane and do the la-de-da down Piccadilly. Then I would go to a slap-up restaurant,
and have green peas, and a bottle of fizz, and a chump chop--O! and I forgot, I'd 'ave some
devilled whitebait first--and green gooseberry tart, and 'ot coffee, and some of that form
of vice in big bottles with a seal--Benedictine--that's the bloomin' nyme! Then I'd drop into
a theatre, and pal on with some chappies, and do the dancing rooms and bars, and that, and
wouldn't go 'ome till morning, till daylight doth appear. And the next day I'd have water-cresses,
'am, muffin, and fresh butter; wouldn't I just, O my!"

The clerk was interrupted by a fresh attack of coughing.

"Well, now, I'll tell you what I would do," said the captain: "I would have none of your fancy
rigs with the man driving from the mizzen cross-trees, but a plain fore-and-aft hack cab of
the highest registered tonnage. First of all, I would bring up at the market and get a turkey
and a sucking-pig. Then I'd go to a wine-merchant's and get a dozen of champagne, and a dozen
of some sweet wine, rich and sticky and strong, something in the port or madeira line, the
best in the store. Then I'd bear up for a toy-store, and lay out twenty dollars in assorted
toys for the pickaninnies; and then to a confectioner's and take in cakes and pies and fancy
bread, and that stuff with the plums in it; and then to a newsagency and buy all the papers,
all the picture ones for the kids, and all the story papers for the old girl about the Earl
discovering himself to Anna-Mariar and the escape of the Lady Maude from the private madhouse;
and then I'd tell the fellow to drive home."

"There ought to be some syrup for the kids," suggested Herrick; "they like syrup."

"Yes, syrup for the kids, red syrup at that!" said the captain. "And those things they pull
at, and go pop, and have measly poetry inside. And then I tell you we'd have a thanksgiving-day
and Christmas-tree combined. Great Scott, but I would like to see the kids! I guess they would
light right out of the house when they saw daddy driving up. My little Adar--"

The captain stopped sharply.

"Well, keep it up!" said the clerk.

"The damned thing is, I don't know if they ain't starving!" cried the captain.

"They can't be worse off than we are, and that's one comfort," returned the clerk. "I defy
the devil to make me worse off."

It seemed as if the devil heard him. The light of the moon had been some time cut off and they
had talked in darkness. Now there was heard a roar, which drew impetuously nearer; the face
of the lagoon was seen to whiten; and before they had staggered to their feet, a squall burst
in rain upon the outcasts. The rage and volume of that avalanche one must have lived in the
tropics to conceive; a man panted in its assault as he might pant under a shower-bath; and
the world seemed whelmed in night and water.

They fled, groping for their usual shelter--it might be almost called their home--in the old
calaboose; came drenched into its empty chambers; and lay down, three sops of humanity, on
the cold coral floors, and presently, when the squall was overpast, the others could hear in
the darkness the chattering of the clerk's teeth.

"I say, you fellows," he wailed, "for God's sake, lie up and try to warm me. I'm blymed if
I don't think I'll die else!"

So the three crept together into one wet mass, and lay until day came, shivering and dozing
off, and continually re-awakened to wretchedness by the coughing of the clerk.

FOOTNOTE:

  [1] Come here.

CHAPTER II

MORNING ON THE BEACH--THE THREE LETTERS

The clouds were all fled, the beauty of the tropic day was spread upon Papeete; and the wall
of breaking seas upon the reef, and the palms upon the islet, already trembled in the heat.
A French man-of-war was going out, homeward bound; she lay in the middle distance of the port,
an ant-heap for activity. In the night a schooner had come in, and now lay far out, hard by
the passage; and the yellow flag, the emblem of pestilence, flew on her. From up the coast,
a long procession of canoes headed round the point and towards the market, bright as a scarf
with the many-coloured clothing of the natives and the piles of fruit. But not even the beauty
and the welcome warmth of the morning, not even these naval movements, so interesting to sailors
and to idlers, could engage the attention of the outcasts. They were still cold at heart, their
mouths sour from the want of sleep, their steps rambling from the lack of food; and they strung
like lame geese along the beach in a disheartened silence. It was towards the town they moved;
towards the town whence smoke arose, where happier folk were breakfasting; and as they went,
their hungry eyes were upon all sides, but they were only scouting for a meal.

A small and dingy schooner lay snug against the quay, with which it was connected by a plank.
On the forward deck, under a spot of awning, five Kanakas, who made up the crew, were squatted
round a basin of fried feis,[2] and drinking coffee from tin mugs.

"Eight bells: knock off for breakfast!" cried the captain, with a miserable heartiness. "Never
tried this craft before; positively my first appearance; guess I'll draw a bumper house."

He came close up to where the plank rested on the grassy quay; turned his back upon the schooner,
and began to whistle that lively air, "The Irish Washerwoman." It caught the ears of the Kanaka
seamen like a preconcerted signal; with one accord they looked up from their meal and crowded
to the ship's side, fei in hand and munching as they looked. Even as a poor brown Pyrenean
bear dances in the streets of English towns under his master's baton; even so, but with how
much more of spirit and precision, the captain footed it in time to his own whistling, and
his long morning shadow capered beyond him on the grass. The Kanakas smiled on the performance;
Herrick looked on heavy-eyed, hunger for the moment conquering all sense of shame; and a little
farther off, but still hard by, the clerk was torn by the seven devils of the influenza.

The captain stopped suddenly, appeared to perceive his audience for the first time, and represented
the part of a man surprised in his private hour of pleasure.

"Hello!" said he.

The Kanakas clapped hands and called upon him to go on.

"No, sir!" said the captain. "No eat, no dance. Savvy?"

"Poor old man!" returned one of the crew. "Him no eat?"

"Lord, no!" said the captain. "Like-um too much eat. No got."

"All right. Me got," said the sailor; "you tome here. Plenty toffee, plenty fei. Nutha man
him tome too."

"I guess we'll drop right in," observed the captain; and he and his companions hastened up
the plank. They were welcomed on board with the shaking of hands; place was made for them round
the basin; a sticky demijohn of molasses was added to the feast in honour of company, and an
accordion brought from the forecastle and significantly laid by the performer's side.

"Ariana,"[3] said he lightly, touching the instrument as he spoke; and he fell to on a long
savoury fei, made an end of it, raised his mug of coffee, and nodded across at the spokesman
of the crew. "Here's your health, old man; you're a credit to the South Pacific," said he.

With the unsightly greed of hounds they glutted themselves with the hot food and coffee; and
even the clerk revived and the colour deepened in his eyes. The kettle was drained, the basin
cleaned; their entertainers, who had waited on their wants throughout with the pleased hospitality
of Polynesians, made haste to bring forward a dessert of island tobacco and rolls of pandanus
leaf to serve as paper; and presently all sat about the dishes puffing like Indian sachems.

"When a man 'as breakfast every day, he don't know what it is," observed the clerk.

"The next point is dinner," said Herrick; and then with a passionate utterance: "I wish to
God I was a Kanaka!"

"There's one thing sure," said the captain. "I'm about desperate; I'd rather hang than rot
here much longer." And with the word he took the accordion and struck up "Home, sweet Home."

"O, drop that!" cried Herrick, "I can't stand that."

"No more can I," said the captain. "I've got to play something though: got to pay the shot,
my son." And he struck up "John Brown's Body" in a fine sweet baritone: "Dandy Jim of Carolina"
came next; "Rorin the Bold," "Swing low, Sweet Chariot," and "The Beautiful Land" followed.
The captain was paying his shot with usury, as he had done many a time before; many a meal
had he bought with the same currency from the melodious-minded natives, always, as now, to
their delight.

He was in the middle of "Fifteen Dollars in the Inside Pocket," singing with dogged energy,
for the task went sore against the grain, when a sensation was suddenly to be observed among
the crew.

"Tapena Tom harry my,"[4] said the spokesman, pointing.

And the three beachcombers, following his indication, saw the figure of a man in pyjama trousers
and a white jumper approaching briskly from the town.

"That's Tapena Tom, is it?" said the captain, pausing in his music. "I don't seem to place
the brute."

"We'd better cut," said the clerk. "'E's no good."

"Well," said the musician deliberately, "one can't most generally always tell. I'll try it
on, I guess. Music has charms to soothe the savage Tapena, boys. We might strike it rich; it
might amount to iced punch in the cabin."

"Hiced punch? O my!" said the clerk. "Give him something 'ot, captain. 'Way down the Swannee
River': try that."

"No, sir! Looks Scots," said the captain; and he struck, for his life, into "Auld Lang Syne."

Captain Tom continued to approach with the same business-like alacrity; no change was to be
perceived in his bearded face as he came swinging up the plank: he did not even turn his eyes
on the performer.

  "We twa hae paidled in the burn,
   Frae morning tide till dine,"

went the song.

Captain Tom had a parcel under his arm, which he laid on the house roof, and then turning suddenly
to the strangers: "Here, you!" he bellowed, "be off out of that!"

The clerk and Herrick stood not on the order of their going, but fled incontinently by the
plank. The performer, on the other hand, flung down the instrument and rose to his full height
slowly.

"What's that you say?" he said. "I've half a mind to give you a lesson in civility."

"You set up any more of your gab to me," returned the Scotsman, "and I'll show ye the wrong
side of a jyle. I've heard tell of the three of ye. Ye're not long for here, I can tell ye
that. The Government has their eyes upon ye. They make short work of damned beachcombers, I'll
say that for the French."

"You wait till I catch you off your ship!" cried the captain; and then, turning to the crew,
"Good-bye, you fellows!" he said. "You're gentlemen, anyway! The worst nigger among you would
look better upon a quarter-deck than that filthy Scotsman."

Captain Tom scorned to reply. He watched with a hard smile the departure of his guests, and
as soon as the last foot was off the plank, turned to the hands to work cargo.

The beachcombers beat their inglorious retreat along the shore; Herrick first, his face dark
with blood, his knees trembling under him with the hysteria of rage. Presently, under the same
purao where they had shivered the night before, he cast himself down, and groaned aloud, and
ground his face into the sand.

"Don't speak to me, don't speak to me. I can't stand it," broke from him.

The other two stood over him perplexed.

"Wot can't he stand now?" said the clerk. "'Asn't he 'ad a meal? I'm lickin' my lips."

Herrick reared up his wild eyes and burning face. "I can't beg!" he screamed, and again threw
himself prone.

"This thing's got to come to an end," said the captain, with an intake of the breath.

"Looks like signs of an end, don't it?" sneered the clerk.

"He's not so far from it, and don't you deceive yourself," replied the captain.--"Well," he
added in a livelier voice, "you fellows hang on here, and I'll go and interview my representative."

Whereupon he turned on his heel, and set off at a swinging sailor's walk towards Papeete.

It was some half-hour later when he returned. The clerk was dozing with his back against the
tree: Herrick still lay where he had flung himself; nothing showed whether he slept or waked.

"See, boys!" cried the captain, with that artificial heartiness of his which was at times so
painful, "here's a new idea." And he produced note-paper, stamped envelopes, and pencils, three
of each. "We can all write home by the mail brigantine; the consul says I can come over to
his place and ink up the addresses."

"Well, that's a start, too," said the clerk. "I never thought of that."

"It was that yarning last night about going home that put me up to it," said the captain.

"Well, 'and over," said the clerk. "I'll 'ave a shy," and he retired a little distance to the
shade of a canoe.

The others remained under the purao. Now they would write a word or two, now scribble it out;
now they would sit biting at the pencil end and staring seaward; now their eyes would rest
on the clerk, where he sat propped on the canoe, leering and coughing, his pencil racing glibly
on the paper.

"I can't do it," said Herrick suddenly. "I haven't got the heart."

"See here," said the captain, speaking with unwonted gravity; "it may be hard to write, and
to write lies at that; and God knows it is; but it's the square thing. It don't cost anything
to say you're well and happy, and sorry you can't make a remittance this mail; and if you don't
I'll tell you what I think it is--I think it's about the high-water mark of being a brute beast."

"It's easy to talk," said Herrick. "You don't seem to have written much yourself, I notice."

"What do you bring in me for?" broke from the captain. His voice was indeed scarce raised above
a whisper, but emotion clanged in it. "What do you know about me? If you had commanded the
finest barque that ever sailed from Portland; if you had been drunk in your berth when she
struck the breakers in Fourteen Island Group, and hadn't had the wit to stay there and drown,
but came on deck, and given drunken orders, and lost six lives--I could understand your talking
then! There," he said more quietly, "that's my yarn, and now you know it. It's a pretty one
for the father of a family. Five men and a woman murdered. Yes, there was a woman on board,
and hadn't no business to be either. Guess I sent her to Hell, if there is such a place. I
never dared go home again; and the wife and the little ones went to England to her father's
place. I don't know what's come to them," he added, with a bitter shrug.

"Thank you, captain," said Herrick. "I never liked you better."

They shook hands, short and hard, with eyes averted, tenderness swelling in their bosoms.

"Now, boys! to work again at lying!" said the captain.

"I'll give my father up," returned Herrick with a writhen smile. "I'll try my sweetheart instead
for a change of evils."

And here is what he wrote:--

   "Emma, I have scratched out the beginning to my father, for I think I
   can write more easily to you. This is my last farewell to all, the
   last you will ever hear or see of an unworthy friend and son. I have
   failed in life; I am quite broken down and disgraced. I pass under a
   false name; you will have to tell my father that with all your
   kindness. It is my own fault. I know, had I chosen, that I might have
   done well; and yet I swear to you I tried to choose. I could not bear
   that you should think I did not try. For I loved you all; you must
   never doubt me in that, you least of all. I have always unceasingly
   loved, but what was my love worth? and what was I worth? I had not
   the manhood of a common clerk; I could not work to earn you; I have
   lost you now, and for your sake I could be glad of it. When you first
   came to my father's house--do you remember those days? I want you
   to--you saw the best of me then, all that was good in me. Do you
   remember the day I took your hand and would not let it go--and the
   day on Battersea Bridge, when we were looking at a barge, and I began
   to tell you one of my silly stories, and broke off to say I loved
   you? That was the beginning, and now here is the end. When you have
   read this letter, you will go round and kiss them all good-bye, my
   father and mother, and the children, one by one, and poor uncle; and
   tell them all to forget me, and forget me yourself. Turn the key in
   the door; let no thought of me return; be done with the poor ghost
   that pretended he was a man and stole your love. Scorn of myself
   grinds in me as I write. I should tell you I am well and happy, and
   want for nothing. I do not exactly make money, or I should send a
   remittance; but I am well cared for, have friends, live in a
   beautiful place and climate, such as we have dreamed of together, and
   no pity need be wasted on me. In such places, you understand, it is
   easy to live, and live well, but often hard to make sixpence in
   money. Explain this to my father, he will understand. I have no more
   to say; only linger, going out, like an unwilling guest. God in
   heaven bless you. Think of me at the last, here, on a bright beach,
   the sky and sea immoderately blue, and the great breakers roaring
   outside on a barrier reef, where a little isle sits green with palms.
   I am well and strong. It is a more pleasant way to die than if you
   were crowding about me on a sick-bed. And yet I am dying. This is my
   last kiss. Forgive, forget the unworthy."

So far he had written, his paper was all filled, when there returned a memory of evenings at
the piano, and that song, the masterpiece of love, in which so many have found the expression
of their dearest thoughts. "Einst, O Wunder!" he added. More was not required; he knew that
in his love's heart the context would spring up, escorted with fair images and harmony; of
how all through life her name should tremble in his ears, her name be everywhere repeated in
the sounds of nature; and when death came, and he lay dissolved, her memory lingered and thrilled
among his elements.

  "Once, O wonder! once from the ashes of my heart
   Arose a blossom----"

Herrick and the captain finished their letters about the same time; each was breathing deep,
and their eyes met and were averted as they closed the envelopes.

"Sorry I write so big," said the captain gruffly. "Came all of a rush, when it did come."

"Same here," said Herrick. "I could have done with a ream when I got started; but it's long
enough for all the good I had to say."

They were still at the addresses when the clerk strolled up, smirking and twirling his envelope,
like a man well pleased. He looked over Herrick's shoulder.

"Hullo," he said, "you ain't writing 'ome."

"I am, though," said Herrick; "she lives with my father.--O, I see what you mean," he added.
"My real name is Herrick. No more Hay"--they had both used the same alias,--"no more Hay than
yours, I daresay."

"Clean bowled in the middle stump!" laughed the clerk. "My name's 'Uish, if you want to know.
Everybody has a false nyme in the Pacific. Lay you five to three the captain 'as."

"So I have too," replied the captain; "and I've never told my own since the day I tore the
title-page out of my Bowditch and flung the damned thing into the sea. But I'll tell it to
you, boys. John Davis is my name. I'm Davis of the Sea Ranger."

"Dooce you are!" said Huish. "And what was she? a pirate or a slyver?"

"She was the fastest barque out of Portland, Maine," replied the captain; "and for the way
I lost her, I might as well have bored a hole in her side with an auger."

"O, you lost her, did you?" said the clerk. "'Ope she was insured?"

No answer being returned to this sally, Huish, still brimming over with vanity and conversation,
struck into another subject.

"I've a good mind to read you my letter," said he. "I've a good fist with a pen when I choose,
and this is a prime lark. She was a barmaid I ran across in Northampton; she was a spanking
fine piece, no end of style; and we cottoned at first sight like parties in the play. I suppose
I spent the chynge of a fiver on that girl. Well, I 'appened to remember her nyme, so I wrote
to her, and told her 'ow I had got rich, and married a queen in the Hislands, and lived in
a blooming palace. Such a sight of crammers! I must read you one bit about my opening the nigger
parliament in a cocked 'at. It's really prime."

The captain jumped to his feet. "That's what you did with the paper that I went and begged
for you?" he roared.

It was perhaps lucky for Huish--it was surely in the end unfortunate for all--that he was seized
just then by one of his prostrating accesses of cough; his comrades would have else deserted
him, so bitter was their resentment. When the fit had passed, the clerk reached out his hand,
picked up the letter, which had fallen to the earth, and tore it into fragments, stamp and all.

"Does that satisfy you?" he asked sullenly.

"We'll say no more about it," replied Davis.

FOOTNOTES:

  [2] Fei is the hill banana.

  [3] By-and-by.

  [4] "Captain Tom is coming."

CHAPTER III

THE OLD CALABOOSE--DESTINY AT THE DOOR

The old calaboose, in which the waifs had so long harboured, is a low, rectangular enclosure
of building at the corner of a shady western avenue and a little townward of the British consulate.
Within was a grassy court, littered with wreckage and the traces of vagrant occupation. Six
or seven cells opened from the court: the doors, that had once been locked on mutinous whalermen,
rotting before them in the grass. No mark remained of their old destination, except the rusty
bars upon the windows.

The floor of one of the cells had been a little cleared; a bucket (the last remaining piece
of furniture of the three caitiffs) stood full of water by the door, a half cocoa-nut shell
beside it for a drinking-cup; and on some ragged ends of mat Huish sprawled asleep, his mouth
open, his face deathly. The glow of the tropic afternoon, the green of sunbright foliage, stared
into that shady place through door and window; and Herrick, pacing to and fro on the coral
floor, sometimes paused and laved his face and neck with tepid water from the bucket. His long
arrears of suffering, the night's vigil, the insults of the morning, and the harrowing business
of the letter, had strung him to that point when pain is almost pleasure, time shrinks to a
mere point, and death and life appear indifferent. To and fro he paced like a caged brute;
his mind whirling through the universe of thought and memory; his eyes, as he went, skimming
the legends on the wall. The crumbling whitewash was all full of them: Tahitian names, and
French, and English, and rude sketches of ships under sail and men at fisticuffs.

It came to him of a sudden that he too must leave upon these walls the memorial of his passage.
He paused before a clean space, took the pencil out, and pondered. Vanity, so hard to dislodge,
awoke in him. We call it vanity at least; perhaps unjustly. Rather it was the bare sense of
his existence prompted him; the sense of his life, the one thing wonderful, to which he scarce
clung with a finger. From his jarred nerves there came a strong sentiment of coming change;
whether good or ill he could not say: change, he knew no more--change with inscrutable veiled
face, approaching noiseless. With the feeling came the vision of a concert-room, the rich hues
of instruments, the silent audience, and the loud voice of the symphony. "Destiny knocking
at the door," he thought; drew a stave on the plaster, and wrote in the famous phrase from
the Fifth Symphony. "So," thought he, "they will know that I loved music and had classical
tastes. They? He, I suppose: the unknown, kindred spirit that shall come some day and read
my memor querela. Ha, he shall have Latin too!" And he added: terque quaterque beati Queis
ante ora patrum.

He turned again to his uneasy pacing, but now with an irrational and supporting sense of duty
done. He had dug his grave that morning; now he had carved his epitaph; the folds of the toga
were composed, why should he delay the insignificant trifle that remained to do? He paused
and looked long in the face of the sleeping Huish, drinking disenchantment and distaste of
life. He nauseated himself with that vile countenance. Could the thing continue? What bound
him now? Had he no rights?--only the obligation to go on, without discharge or furlough, bearing
the unbearable? Ich trage unerträgliches, the quotation rose in his mind; he repeated the whole
piece, one of the most perfect of the most perfect of poets; and a phrase struck him like a
blow: Du, stolzes Herz, du hast es ja gewollt. Where was the pride of his heart? And he raged
against himself, as a man bites on a sore tooth, in a heady sensuality of scorn. "I have no
pride, I have no heart, no manhood," he thought, "or why should I prolong a life more shameful
than the gallows? Or why should I have fallen to it? No pride, no capacity, no force. Not even
a bandit! and to be starving here with worse than banditti--with this trivial hell-hound!"
His rage against his comrade rose and flooded him, and he shook a trembling fist at the sleeper.

A swift step was audible. The captain appeared upon the threshold of the cell, panting and
flushed, and with a foolish face of happiness. In his arms he carried a loaf of bread and bottles
of beer; the pockets of his coat were bulging with cigars. He rolled his treasures on the floor,
grasped Herrick by both hands, and crowed with laughter.

"Broach the beer!" he shouted. "Broach the beer, and glory hallelujah!"

"Beer?" repeated Huish, struggling to his feet.

"Beer it is!" cried Davis. "Beer, and plenty of it. Any number of persons can use it (like
Lyon's tooth-tablet) with perfect propriety and neatness.--Who's to officiate?"

"Leave me alone for that," said the clerk. He knocked the necks off with a lump of coral, and
each drank in succession from the shell.

"Have a weed," said Davis. "It's all in the bill."

"What is up?" asked Herrick.

The captain fell suddenly grave. "I'm coming to that," said he. "I want to speak with Herrick
here. You, Hay--or Huish, or whatever your name is--you take a weed and the other bottle, and
go and see how the wind is down by the purao. I'll call you when you're wanted!"

"Hey? Secrets? That ain't the ticket," said Huish.

"Look here, my son," said the captain, "this is business, and don't you make any mistake about
it. If you're going to make trouble, you can have it your own way and stop right here. Only
get the thing right: if Herrick and I go, we take the beer. Savvy?"

"O, I don't want to shove my oar in," returned Huish. "I'll cut right enough. Give me the swipes.
You can jaw till you're blue in the face for what I care. I don't think it's the friendly touch,
that's all." And he shambled grumbling out of the cell into the staring sun.

The captain watched him clear of the courtyard; then turned to Herrick.

"What is it?" asked Herrick thickly.

"I'll tell you," said Davis. "I want to consult you. It's a chance we've got.--What's that?"
he cried, pointing to the music on the wall.

"What?" said the other. "O, that! It's music; it's a phrase of Beethoven's I was writing up.
It means Destiny knocking at the door."

"Does it?" said the captain, rather low; and he went near and studied the inscription. "And
this French?" he asked, pointing to the Latin.

"O, it just means I should have been luckier if I had died at home," returned Herrick impatiently.
"What is this business?"

"Destiny knocking at the door," repeated the captain; and then, looking over his shoulder,
"Well, Mr. Herrick, that's about what it comes to," he added.

"What do you mean? Explain yourself," said Herrick.

But the captain was again staring at the music. "About how long ago since you wrote up this
truck?" he asked.

"What does it matter?" exclaimed Herrick. "I daresay half an hour."

"My God, it's strange!" cried Davis. "There's some men would call that accidental: not me.
That----" and he drew his thick finger under the music--"that's what I call Providence."

"You said we had a chance," said Herrick.

"Yes, sir!" said the captain, wheeling suddenly face to face with his companion. "I did so.
If you're the man I take you for, we have a chance."

"I don't know what you take me for," was the reply. "You can scarce take me too low."

"Shake hands, Mr. Herrick," said the captain. "I know you. You're a gentleman and a man of
spirit. I didn't want to speak before that bummer there; you'll see why. But to you I'll rip
it right out. I got a ship."

"A ship?" cried Herrick. "What ship?"

"That schooner we saw this morning off the passage."

"That schooner with the hospital flag?"

"That's the hooker," said Davis. "She's the Farallone, hundred and sixty tons register, out
of 'Frisco for Sydney, in California champagne. Captain, mate, and one hand all died of the
small-pox, same as they had round in the Paumotus, I guess. Captain and mate were the only
white men; all the hands Kanakas; seems a queer kind of outfit from a Christian port. Three
of them left and a cook; didn't know where they were; I can't think where they were either,
if you come to that; Wiseman must have been on the booze, I guess, to sail the course he did.
However, there he was, dead; and here are the Kanakas as good as lost. They bummed around at
sea like the babes in the wood; and tumbled end-on upon Tahiti. The consul here took charge.
He offered the berth to Williams; Williams had never had the small-pox and backed down. That
was when I came in for the letter-paper; I thought there was something up when the consul asked
me to look in again; but I never let on to you fellows, so's you'd not be disappointed. Consul
tried M'Neil; scared of small-pox. He tried Capirati, that Corsican, and Leblue, or whatever
his name is, wouldn't lay a hand on it; all too fond of their sweet lives. Last of all, when
there wasn't nobody else left to offer it to, he offers it to me. 'Brown, will you ship captain
and take her to Sydney?' says he. 'Let me choose my own mate and another white hand,' says
I, 'for I don't hold with this Kanaka crew racket; give us all two months' advance to get our
clothes and instruments out of pawn, and I'll take stock to-night, fill up stores, and get
to sea to-morrow before dark!' That's what I said. 'That's good enough,' says the consul, 'and
you can count yourself damned lucky, Brown,' says he. And he said it pretty meaningful-appearing
too. However, that's all one now. I'll ship Huish before the mast--of course I'll let him berth
aft--and I'll ship you mate at seventy-five dollars and two months' advance."

"Me mate? Why, I'm a landsman!" cried Herrick.

"Guess you've got to learn," said the captain. "You don't fancy I'm going to skip and leave
you rotting on the beach, perhaps? I'm not that sort, old man. And you're handy, anyway; I've
been shipmates with worse."

"God knows I can't refuse," said Herrick. "God knows I thank you from my heart."

"That's all right," said the captain. "But it ain't all." He turned aside to light a cigar.

"What else is there?" asked the other, with a pang of undefinable alarm.

"I'm coming to that," said Davis, and then paused a little. "See here," he began, holding out
his cigar between his finger and thumb, "suppose you figure up what this'll amount to. You
don't catch on? Well, we get two months' advance; we can't get away from Papeete--our creditors
wouldn't let us go--for less; it'll take us along about two months to get to Sydney; and when
we get there, I just want to put it to you squarely: What the better are we?"

"We're off the beach at least," said Herrick.

"I guess there's a beach at Sydney," returned the captain; "and I'll tell you one thing, Mr.
Herrick--I don't mean to try. No, sir! Sydney will never see me."

"Speak out plain," said Herrick.

"Plain Dutch," replied the captain. "I'm going to own that schooner. It's nothing new; it's
done every year in the Pacific. Stephens stole a schooner the other day, didn't he? Hayes and
Pease stole vessels all the time. And it's the making of the crowd of us. See here--you think
of that cargo. Champagne! why, it's like as if it was put up on purpose. In Peru we'll sell
that liquor off at the pier-head, and the schooner after it, if we can find a fool to buy her;
and then light out for the mines. If you'll back me up, I stake my life I carry it through."

"Captain," said Herrick, with a quailing voice, "don't do it!"

"I'm desperate," returned Davis. "I've got a chance; I may never get another. Herrick, say
the word: back me up; I think we've starved together long enough for that."

"I can't do it. I'm sorry. I can't do it. I've not fallen as low as that," said Herrick, deadly
pale.

"What did you say this morning?" said Davis. "That you couldn't beg? It's the one thing or
the other, my son."

"Ah, but this is the gaol!" cried Herrick. "Don't tempt me. It's the gaol."

"Did you hear what the skipper said on board that schooner?" pursued the captain. "Well, I
tell you he talked straight. The French have let us alone for a long time; it can't last longer;
they've got their eye on us; and as sure as you live, in three weeks you'll be in gaol whatever
you do. I read it in the consul's face."

"You forget, captain," said the young man. "There is another way. I can die; and to say truth,
I think I should have died three years ago."

The captain folded his arms and looked the other in the face. "Yes," said he, "yes, you can
cut your throat; that's a frozen fact; much good may it do you! And where do I come in?"

The light of a strange excitement came in Herrick's face. "Both of us," said he, "both of us
together. It's not possible you can enjoy this business. Come," and he reached out a timid
hand, "a few strokes in the lagoon--and rest!"

"I tell you, Herrick, I'm 'most tempted to answer you the way the man does in the Bible, and
say, 'Get thee behind me, Satan!'" said the captain. "What! you think I would go drown myself,
and I got children starving? Enjoy it? No, by God, I do not enjoy it! but it's the row I've
got to hoe, and I'll hoe it till I drop right here. I have three of them, you see, two boys
and the one girl, Adar. The trouble is that you are not a parent yourself. I tell you, Herrick,
I love you," the man broke out; "I didn't take to you at first, you were so Anglified and tony,
but I love you now; it's a man that loves you stands here and wrestles with you. I can't go
to sea with the bummer alone; it's not possible. Go drown yourself, and there goes my last
chance--the last chance of a poor miserable beast, earning a crust to feed his family. I can't
do nothing but sail ships, and I've no papers. And here I get a chance, and you go back on
me! Ah, you've no family, and that's where the trouble is!"

"I have indeed," said Herrick.

"Yes, I know," said the captain, "you think so. But no man's got a family till he's got children.
It's only the kids count. There's something about the little shavers ... I can't talk of them.
And if you thought a cent about this father that I hear you talk of, or that sweetheart you
were writing to this morning, you would feel like me. You would say, What matter laws, and
God, and that? My folks are hard up, I belong to them, I'll get them bread, or, by God! I'll
get them wealth, if I have to burn down London for it. That's what you would say. And I'll
tell you more: your heart is saying so this living minute. I can see it in your face. You're
thinking, Here's poor friendship for the man I've starved along of, and as for the girl that
I set up to be in love with, here's a mighty limp kind of a love that won't carry me as far
as 'most any man would go for a demijohn of whisky. There's not much romance to that love,
anyway; it's not the kind they carry on about in song-books. But what's the good of my carrying
on talking, when it's all in your inside as plain as print? I put the question to you once
for all. Are you going to desert me in my hour of need?--you know if I've deserted you--or
will you give me your hand, and try a fresh deal, and go home (as like as not) a millionaire?
Say No, and God pity me! Say Yes, and I'll make the little ones pray for you every night on
their bended knees. 'God bless Mr. Herrick:' that's what they'll say, one after the other,
the old girl sitting there holding stakes at the foot of the bed, and the damned little innocents
..." he broke off. "I don't often rip out about the kids," he said; "but when I do, there's
something fetches loose."

"Captain," said Herrick faintly, "is there nothing else?"

"I'll prophesy if you like," said the captain with renewed vigour. "Refuse this, because you
think yourself too honest, and before a month's out you'll be gaoled for a sneak-thief. I give
you the word fair. I can see it, Herrick, if you can't; you're breaking down. Don't think,
if you refuse this chance, that you'll go on doing the evangelical; you're about through with
your stock; and before you know where you are, you'll be right out on the other side. No, it's
either this for you; or else it's Caledonia. I bet you never were there, and saw those white,
shaved men, in their dust-clothes and straw hats, prowling around in gangs in the lamplight
at Noumea; they look like wolves, and they look like preachers, and they look like the sick;
Huish is a daisy to the best of them. Well, there's your company. They're waiting for you,
Herrick, and you got to go; and that's a prophecy."

And as the man stood and shook through his great stature, he seemed indeed like one in whom
the spirit of divination worked and might utter oracles. Herrick looked at him, and looked
away; it seemed not decent to spy upon such agitation; and the young man's courage sank.

"You talk of going home," he objected. "We could never do that."

"We could," said the other. "Captain Brown couldn't, nor Mr. Hay that shipped mate with him
couldn't. But what's that to do with Captain Davis or Mr. Herrick, you galoot?"

"But Hayes had these wild islands where he used to call," came the next fainter objection.

"We have the wild islands of Peru," retorted Davis. "They were wild enough for Stephens, no
longer agone than just last year. I guess they'll be wild enough for us."

"And the crew?"

"All Kanakas. Come, I see you're right, old man. I see you'll stand by." And the captain once
more offered his hand.

"Have it your own way then," said Herrick. "I'll do it: a strange thing for my father's son.
But I'll do it. I'll stand by you, man, for good or evil."

"God bless you!" cried the captain, and stood silent. "Herrick," he added with a smile, "I
believe I'd have died in my tracks if you'd said No!"

And Herrick, looking at the man, half believed so also.

"And now we'll go break it to the bummer," said Davis.

"I wonder how he'll take it," said Herrick.

"Him? Jump at it!" was the reply.

CHAPTER IV

THE YELLOW FLAG

The schooner Farallone lay well out in the jaws of the pass, where the terrified pilot had
made haste to bring her to her moorings and escape. Seen from the beach through the thin line
of shipping, two objects stood conspicuous to seaward: the little isle, on the one hand, with
its palms and the guns and batteries raised forty years before in defence of Queen Pomare's
capital; the outcast Farallone, upon the other, banished to the threshold of the port, rolling
there to her scuppers, and flaunting the plague-flag as she rolled. A few sea-birds screamed
and cried about the ship; and within easy range, a man-of-war guard-boat hung off and on and
glittered with the weapons of marines. The exuberant daylight and the blinding heaven of the
tropics picked out and framed the pictures.

A neat boat, manned by natives in uniform, and steered by the doctor of the port, put from
shore towards three of the afternoon, and pulled smartly for the schooner. The fore-sheets
were heaped with sacks of flour, onions, and potatoes, perched among which was Huish dressed
as a foremast hand; a heap of chests and cases impeded the action of the oarsmen; and in the
stern, by the left hand of the doctor, sat Herrick, dressed in a fresh rig of slops, his brown
beard trimmed to a point, a pile of paper novels on his lap, and nursing the while between
his feet a chronometer, for which they had exchanged that of the Farallone, long since run
down and the rate lost.

They passed the guard-boat, exchanging hails with the boatswain's mate in charge, and drew
near at last to the forbidden ship. Not a cat stirred, there was no speech of man; and the
sea being exceeding high outside, and the reef close to where the schooner lay, the clamour
of the surf hung round her like the sound of battle.

"Ohé la goëlette!" sang out the doctor, with his best voice.

Instantly, from the house where they had been stowing away stores, first Davis, and then the
ragamuffin, swarthy crew made their appearance.

"Hullo, Hay, that you?" said the captain, leaning on the rail. "Tell the old man to lay her
alongside, as if she was eggs. There's a hell of a run of sea here, and his boat's brittle."

The movement of the schooner was at that time more than usually violent. Now she heaved her
side as high as a deep-sea steamer's, and showed the flashing of her copper; now she swung
swiftly towards the boat until her scuppers gurgled.

"I hope you have sea-legs," observed the doctor. "You will require them."

Indeed, to board the Farallone, in that exposed position where she lay, was an affair of some
dexterity. The less precious goods were hoisted roughly; the chronometer, after repeated failures,
was passed gently and successfully from hand to hand; and there remained only the more difficult
business of embarking Huish. Even that piece of dead weight (shipped A.B. at eighteen dollars,
and described by the captain to the consul as an invaluable man) was at last hauled on board
without mishap; and the doctor, with civil salutations, took his leave.

The three co-adventurers looked at each other, and Davis heaved a breath of relief.

"Now let's get this chronometer fixed," said he, and led the way into the house. It was a fairly
spacious place; two state-rooms and a good-sized pantry opened from the main cabin; the bulk-heads
were painted white, the floor laid with waxcloth. No litter, no sign of life remained; for
the effects of the dead men had been disinfected and conveyed on shore. Only on the table,
in a saucer, some sulphur burned, and the fumes set them coughing as they entered. The captain
peered into the starboard state-room, where the bed-clothes still lay tumbled in the bunk,
the blanket flung back as they had flung it back from the disfigured corpse before its burial.

"Now, I told these niggers to tumble that truck overboard," grumbled Davis. "Guess they were
afraid to lay hands on it. Well, they've hosed the place out; that's as much as can be expected,
I suppose. Huish, lay on to these blankets."

"See you blooming well far enough first," said Huish, drawing back.

"What's that?" snapped the captain. "I'll tell you, my young friend, I think you make a mistake.
I'm captain here."

"Fat lot I care," returned the clerk.

"That so?" said Davis. "Then you'll berth forward with the niggers! Walk right out of this cabin."

"O, I dessay!" said Huish. "See any green in my eye? A lark's a lark."

"Well, now, I'll explain this business, and you'll see, once for all, just precisely how much
lark there is to it," said Davis. "I'm captain, and I'm going to be it. One thing of three.
First, you take my orders here as cabin steward, in which case you mess with us. Or, second,
you refuse, and I pack you forward--and you get as quick as the word's said. Or, third and
last, I'll signal that man-of-war and send you ashore under arrest for mutiny."

"And, of course, I wouldn't blow the gaff? O no!" replied the jeering Huish.

"And who's to believe you, my son?" inquired the captain. "No, sir! There ain't no larking
about my captainising. Enough said. Up with these blankets."

Huish was no fool, he knew when he was beaten; and he was no coward either, for he stepped
to the bunk, took the infected bed-clothes fairly in his arms, and carried them out of the
house without a check or tremor.

"I was waiting for the chance," said Davis to Herrick. "I needn't do the same with you, because
you understand it for yourself."

"Are you going to berth here?" asked Herrick, following the captain into the state-room, where
he began to adjust the chronometer in its place at the bed-head.

"Not much!" replied he. "I guess I'll berth on deck. I don't know as I'm afraid, but I've no
immediate use for confluent small-pox."

"I don't know that I'm afraid either," said Herrick. "But the thought of these two men sticks
in my throat; that captain and mate dying here, one opposite to the other. It's grim. I wonder
what they said last?"

"Wiseman and Wishart?" said the captain. "Probably mighty small potatoes. That's a thing a
fellow figures out for himself one way, and the real business goes quite another. Perhaps Wiseman
said, 'Here, old man, fetch up the gin, I'm feeling powerful rocky.' And perhaps Wishart said,
'O, hell!'"

"Well, that's grim enough," said Herrick.

"And so it is," said Davis.--"There; there's that chronometer fixed. And now it's about time
to up anchor and clear out."

He lit a cigar and stepped on deck.

"Here, you! What's your name?" he cried to one of the hands, a lean-flanked, clean-built fellow
from some far western island, and of a darkness almost approaching to the African.

"Sally Day," replied the man.

"Devil it is," said the captain, "Didn't know we had ladies on board.--Well, Sally, oblige
me by hauling down that rag there. I'll do the same for you another time." He watched the yellow
bunting as it was eased past the cross-trees and handed down on deck. "You'll float no more
on this ship," he observed. "Muster the people aft, Mr. Hay," he added, speaking unnecessarily
loud, "I've a word to say to them."

It was with a singular sensation that Herrick prepared for the first time to address a crew.
He thanked his stars indeed that they were natives. But even natives, he reflected, might be
critics too quick for such a novice as himself; they might perceive some lapse from that precise
and cut-and-dry English which prevails on board a ship; it was even possible they understood
no other; and he racked his brain, and overhauled his reminiscences of sea romance, for some
appropriate words.

"Here, men! tumble aft!" he said. "Lively now! all hands aft!"

They crowded in the alleyway like sheep.

"Here they are, sir," said Herrick.

For some time the captain continued to face the stern; then turned with ferocious suddenness
on the crew, and seemed to enjoy their shrinking.

"Now," he said, twisting his cigar in his mouth and toying with the spokes of the wheel. "I'm
Captain Brown. I command this ship. This is Mr. Hay, first officer. The other white man is
cabin steward, but he'll stand watch and do his trick. My orders shall be obeyed smartly. You
savvy, 'smartly'? There shall be no growling about the kaikai, which will be above allowance.
You'll put a handle to the mate's name, and tack on 'sir' to every order I give you. If you're
smart and quick, I'll make this ship comfortable for all hands." He took the cigar out of his
mouth. "If you're not," he added, in a roaring voice, "I'll make it a floating hell.--Now,
Mr. Hay, we'll pick watches, if you please."

"All right," said Herrick.

"You will please use 'sir' when you address me, Mr. Hay," said the captain. "I'll take the
lady. Step to starboard, Sally." And then he whispered in Herrick's ear, "Take the old man."

"I'll take you, there," said Herrick.

"What's your name?" said the captain. "What's that you say? O, that's not English; I'll have
none of your highway gibberish on my ship. We'll call you old Uncle Ned, because you've got
no wool on the top of your head, just the place where the wool ought to grow. Step to port,
Uncle. Don't you hear Mr. Hay has picked you? Then I'll take the white man. White Man, step
to starboard. Now, which of you two is the cook? You? Then Mr. Hay takes your friend in the
blue dungaree. Step to port, Dungaree, There, we know who we all are: Dungaree, Uncle Ned,
Sally Day, White Man, and Cook. All F.F.V.'s I guess. And now, Mr. Hay, we'll up anchor, if
you please."

"For heaven's sake, tell me some of the words," whispered Herrick.

An hour later the Farallone was under all plain sail, the rudder hard a-port, and the cheerfully-clanking
windlass had brought the anchor home.

"All clear, sir," cried Herrick from the bow.

The captain met her with the wheel, as she bounded like a stag from her repose, trembling and
bending to the puffs. The guard-boat gave a parting hail, the wake whitened and ran out; the
Farallone was under weigh.

Her berth had been close to the pass. Even as she forged ahead Davis slewed her for the channel
between the pier-ends of the reef, the breakers sounding and whitening to either hand. Straight
through the narrow band of blue she shot to seaward; and the captain's heart exulted as he
felt her tremble underfoot, and (looking back over the taffrail) beheld the roofs of Papeete
changing position on the shore and the island mountains rearing higher in the wake.

But they were not yet done with the shore and the horror of the yellow flag. About midway of
the pass there was a cry and a scurry, a man was seen to leap upon the rail, and, throwing
his arms over his head, to stoop and plunge into the sea.

"Steady as she goes," the captain cried, relinquishing the wheel to Huish.

The next moment he was forward in the midst of the Kanakas, belaying-pin in hand.

"Anybody else for shore?" he cried, and the savage trumpeting of his voice, no less than the
ready weapon in his hand, struck fear in all. Stupidly they stared after their escaped companion,
whose black head was visible upon the water, steering for the land. And the schooner meanwhile
slipped like a racer through the pass, and met the long sea of the open ocean with a souse
of spray.

"Fool that I was, not to have a pistol ready!" exclaimed Davis. "Well, we go to sea short-handed;
we can't help that. You have a lame watch of it, Mr. Hay."

"I don't see how we are to get along," said Herrick.

"Got to," said the captain. "No more Tahiti for me."

Both turned instinctively and looked astern. The fair island was unfolding mountain-top on
mountain-top; Eimeo, on the port board, lifted her splintered pinnacles; and still the schooner
raced to the open sea.

"Think!" cried the captain, with a gesture, "yesterday morning I danced for my breakfast like
a poodle dog."

CHAPTER V

THE CARGO OF CHAMPAGNE

The ship's head was laid to clear Eimeo to the north, and the captain sat down in the cabin,
with a chart, a ruler, and an epitome.

"East a half no'the," said he, raising his face from his labours. "Mr. Hay, you'll have to
watch your dead reckoning; I want every yard she makes on every hair's-breadth of a course.
I'm going to knock a hole right straight through the Paumotus, and that's always a near touch.
Now, if this South East Trade ever blew out of the S.E., which it don't, we might hope to lie
within half a point of our course. Say we lie within a point of it. That'll just about weather
Fakarava. Yes, sir, that's what we've got to do, if we tack for it. Brings us through this
slush of little islands in the cleanest place: see?" And he showed where his ruler intersected
the wide-lying labyrinth of the Dangerous Archipelago. "I wish it was night, and I could put
her about right now; we're losing time and easting. Well, we'll do our best. And if we don't
fetch Peru, we'll bring up to Ecuador. All one, I guess. Depreciated dollars down, and no questions
asked. A remarkable fine institootion, the South American don."

Tahiti was already some way astern, the Diadem rising from among broken mountains--Eimeo was
already close aboard, and stood black and strange against the golden splendour of the west--when
the captain took his departure from the two islands, and the patent log was set.

Some twenty minutes later, Sally Day, who was continually leaving the wheel to peer in at the
cabin clock, announced in a shrill cry "Fo' bell," and the cook was to be seen carrying the
soup into the cabin.

"I guess I'll sit down and have a pick with you," said Davis to Herrick. "By the time I've
done it'll be dark, and we'll clap the hooker on the wind for South America."

In the cabin at one corner of the table, immediately below the lamp, and on the lee side of
a bottle of champagne, sat Huish.

"What's this? Where did that come from?" asked the captain.

"It's fizz, and it came from the after-'old, if you want to know," said Huish, and drained his mug.

"This'll never do," exclaimed Davis, the merchant seaman's horror of breaking into cargo showing
incongruously forth on board that stolen ship. "There was never any good came of games like that."

"You byby!" said Huish. "A fellow would think (to 'ear him) we were on the square! And look
'ere, you've put this job up 'ansomely for me, 'aven't you? I'm to go on deck and steer, while
you two sit and guzzle, and I'm to go by a nickname, and got to call you 'sir' and 'mister.'
Well, you look here, my bloke: I'll have fizz ad lib., or it won't wash. I tell you that. And
you know mighty well, you ain't got any man-of-war to signal now."

Davis was staggered. "I'd give fifty dollars this had never happened," he said weakly.

"Well, it 'as 'appened, you see," returned Huish. "Try some; it's devilish good."

The Rubicon was crossed without another struggle. The captain filled a mug and drank.

"I wish it was beer," he said with a sigh. "But there's no denying it's the genuine stuff and
cheap at the money. Now, Huish, you clear out and take your wheel."

The little wretch had gained a point, and he was gay. "Ay, ay, sir," said he, and left the
others to their meal.

"Pea-soup!" exclaimed the captain. "Blamed if I thought I should taste pea-soup again!"

Herrick sat inert and silent. It was impossible after these months of hopeless want to smell
the rough, high-spiced sea victuals without lust, and his mouth watered with desire of the
champagne. It was no less impossible to have assisted at the scene between Huish and the captain,
and not to perceive, with sudden bluntness, the gulf where he had fallen. He was a thief among
thieves. He said it to himself. He could not touch the soup. If he had moved at all, it must
have been to leave the table, throw himself overboard, and drown--an honest man.

"Here," said the captain, "you look sick, old man; have a drop of this."

The champagne creamed and bubbled in the mug; its bright colour, its lively effervescence,
seized his eye. "It is too late to hesitate," he thought; his hand took the mug instinctively;
he drank, with unquenchable pleasure and desire of more; drained the vessel dry, and set it
down with sparkling eyes.

"There is something in life after all!" he cried. "I had forgot what it was like. Yes, even
this is worth while. Wine, food, dry clothes--why, they're worth dying, worth hanging for!
Captain, tell me one thing: why aren't all the poor folk foot-pads?"

"Give it up," said the captain.

"They must be damned good," cried Herrick. "There's something here beyond me. Think of that
calaboose! Suppose we were sent suddenly back." He shuddered as stung by a convulsion, and
buried his face in his clutching hands.

"Here, what's wrong with you?" cried the captain. There was no reply; only Herrick's shoulders
heaved, so that the table was shaken. "Take some more of this. Here, drink this. I order you
to. Don't start crying when you're out of the wood."

"I'm not crying," said Herrick, raising his face and showing his dry eyes. "It's worse than
crying. It's the horror of that grave that we've escaped from."

"Come now, you tackle your soup; that'll fix you," said Davis kindly. "I told you you were
all broken up. You couldn't have stood out another week."

"That's the dreadful part of it!" cried Herrick. "Another week and I'd have murdered some one
for a dollar! God! and I know that? And I'm still living? It's some beastly dream."

"Quietly, quietly! Quietly does it, my son. Take your pea-soup. Food, that's what you want,"
said Davis.

The soup strengthened and quieted Herrick's nerves; another glass of wine, and a piece of pickled
pork and fried banana completed what the soup began; and he was able once more to look the
captain in the face.

"I didn't know I was so much run down," he said.

"Well," said Davis, "you were as steady as a rock all day: now you've had a little lunch, you'll
be as steady as a rock again."

"Yes," was the reply, "I'm steady enough now, but I'm a queer kind of a first officer."

"Shucks!" cried the captain. "You've only got to mind the ship's course, and keep your slate
to half a point. A babby could do that, let alone a college graduate like you. There ain't
nothing to sailoring, when you come to look it in the face. And now we'll go and put her about.
Bring the slate; we'll have to start our dead reckoning right away."

The distance run since the departure was read off the log by the binnacle light and entered
on the slate.

"Ready about," said the captain. "Give me the wheel, White Man, and you stand by the mainsheet.
Boom tackle, Mr. Hay, please, and then you can jump forward and attend head sails."

"Ay, ay, sir," responded Herrick.

"All clear forward?" asked Davis.

"All clear, sir."

"Hard a-lee!" cried the captain. "Haul in your slack as she comes," he called to Huish. "Haul
in your slack, put your back into it; keep your feet out of the coils." A sudden blow sent
Huish flat along the deck, and the captain was in his place. "Pick yourself up and keep the
wheel hard over!" he roared. "You wooden fool, you wanted to get killed, I guess. Draw the
jib," he cried a moment later; and then to Huish, "Give me the wheel again, and see if you
can coil that sheet."

But Huish stood and looked at Davis with an evil countenance. "Do you know you struck me?" said he.

"Do you know I saved your life?" returned the other, not deigning to look at him, his eyes
travelling instead between the compass and the sails. "Where would you have been if that boom
had swung out and you bundled in the slack? No, sir, we'll have no more of you at the mainsheet.
Seaport towns are full of mainsheet-men; they hop upon one leg, my son, what's left of them,
and the rest are dead. (Set your boom tackle, Mr. Hay.) Struck you, did I? Lucky for you I did."

"Well," said Huish slowly, "I dessay there may be somethink in that. 'Ope there is." He turned
his back elaborately on the captain, and entered the house, where the speedy explosion of a
champagne cork showed he was attending to his comfort.

Herrick came aft to the captain. "How is she doing now?" he asked.

"East and by no'the a half no'the," said Davis. "It's about as good as I expected."

"What'll the hands think of it?" said Herrick.

"O, they don't think. They ain't paid to," says the captain.

"There was something wrong, was there not? between you and--" Herrick paused.

"That's a nasty little beast; that's a biter," replied the captain, shaking his head. "But
so long as you and me hang in, it don't matter."

Herrick lay down in the weather alleyway; the night was cloudless, the movement of the ship
cradled him, he was oppressed besides by the first generous meal after so long a time of famine;
and he was recalled from deep sleep by the voice of Davis singing out: "Eight bells!"

He rose stupidly and staggered aft, where the captain gave him the wheel.

"By the wind," said the captain. "It comes a little puffy; when you get a heavy puff, steal
all you can to windward, but keep her a good full."

He stepped towards the house, paused and hailed the forecastle.

"Got such a thing as a concertina forward?" said he. "Bully for you, Uncle Ned. Fetch it aft,
will you?"

The schooner steered very easy; and Herrick, watching the moon-whitened sails, was overpowered
by drowsiness. A sharp report from the cabin startled him; a third bottle had been opened;
and Herrick remembered the Sea Ranger and Fourteen Island Group. Presently the notes of the
accordion sounded, and then the captain's voice:

  "O honey, with our pockets full of money,
   We will trip, trip, trip, we will trip it on the quay,
   And I will dance with Kate, and Tom will dance with Sall,
   When we're all back from South Amerikee."

So it went to its quaint air; and the watch below lingered and listened by the forward door,
and Uncle Ned was to be seen in the moonlight nodding time; and Herrick smiled at the wheel,
his anxieties a while forgotten. Song followed song; another cork exploded; there were voices
raised, as though the pair in the cabin were in disagreement: and presently it seemed the breach
was healed; for it was now the voice of Huish that struck up, to the captain's accompaniment:--

  "Up in a balloon, boys,
     Up in a balloon,
   All among the little stars
     And round about the moon."

A wave of nausea overcame Herrick at the wheel. He wondered why the air, the words (which were
yet written with a certain knack), and the voice and accent of the singer, should all jar his
spirit like a file on a man's teeth. He sickened at the thought of his two comrades drinking
away their reason upon stolen wine, quarrelling and hiccupping and waking up, while the doors
of a prison yawned for them in the near future. "Shall I have sold my honour for nothing?"
he thought; and a heat of rage and resolution glowed in his bosom--rage against his comrades--resolution
to carry through this business if it might be carried; pluck profit out of shame, since the
shame at least was now inevitable; and come home, home from South America--how did the song
go?--"with his pockets full of money." All through the remainder of his trick he stood entranced,
reviewing the past. He had been always true to his love, but not always sedulous to recall
her. In the growing calamity of his life, she had swum more distant, like the moon in mist.
The letter of farewell, the dishonourable hope that had surprised and corrupted him in his
distress, the changed scene, the sea, the night and the music--all stirred him to the roots
of manhood. "I will win her," he thought, and ground his teeth. "Fair or foul, what matters
if I win her?"

"Fo' bell, matey. I think um fo' bell"--he was suddenly recalled by these words in the voice
of Uncle Ned.

"Look in at the clock, Uncle," said he. He would not look himself, from horror of the tipplers.

"Him past, matey," repeated the Hawaiian.

"So much the better for you, Uncle," he replied; and he gave up the wheel, repeating the directions
as he had received them.

He took two steps forward and remembered his dead reckoning. "How has she been heading?" he
thought; and he flushed from head to foot. He had not observed or had forgotten; here was the
old incompetence; the slate must be filled up by guess. "Never again!" he vowed to himself
in silent fury, "never again. It shall be no fault of mine if this miscarry." And for the remainder
of his watch he stood close by Uncle Ned, and read the face of the compass as perhaps he had
never read a letter from his sweetheart.

All the time, and spurring him to the more attention, song, loud talk, fleering laughter, and
the occasional popping of a cork, reached his ears from the interior of the house; and when
the port watch was relieved at midnight, Huish and the captain appeared upon the quarter-deck
with flushed faces and uneven steps, the former laden with bottles, the latter with two tin
mugs. Herrick silently passed them by. They hailed him in thick voices, he made no answer;
they cursed him for a churl, he paid no heed although his belly quivered with disgust and rage.
He closed-to the door of the house behind him, and cast himself on a locker in the cabin--not
to sleep, he thought--rather to think and to despair. Yet he had scarce turned twice on his
uneasy bed, before a drunken voice hailed him in the ear, and he must go on deck again to stand
the morning watch.

The first evening set the model for those that were to follow. Two cases of champagne scarce
lasted the four-and-twenty hours, and almost the whole was drunk by Huish and the captain.
Huish seemed to thrive on the excess; he was never sober, yet never wholly tipsy; the food
and the sea air had soon healed him of his disease, and he began to lay on flesh. But with
Davis things went worse. In the drooping, unbuttoned figure that sprawled all day upon the
lockers, tippling and reading novels; in the fool who made of the evening watch a public carouse
on the quarter-deck, it would have been hard to recognise the vigorous seaman of Papeete roads.
He kept himself reasonably well in hand till he had taken the sun and yawned and blotted through
his calculations; but from the moment he rolled up the chart, his hours were passed in slavish
self-indulgence or in hoggish slumber. Every other branch of his duty was neglected, except
maintaining a stern discipline about the dinner-table. Again and again Herrick would hear the
cook called aft, and see him running with fresh tins, or carrying away again a meal that had
been totally condemned. And the more the captain became sunk in drunkenness, the more delicate
his palate showed itself. Once, in the forenoon, he had a bo'sun's chair rigged over the rail,
stripped to his trousers, and went overboard with a pot of paint. "I don't like the way this
schooner's painted," said he, "and I've taken a down upon her name." But he tired of it in
half an hour, and the schooner went on her way with an incongruous patch of colour on the stern,
and the word Farallone part obliterated and part looking through. He refused to stand either
the middle or morning watch. It was fine-weather sailing, he said; and asked, with a laugh,
"Who ever heard of the old man standing watch himself?" To the dead reckoning which Herrick
still tried to keep, he would pay not the least attention nor afford the least assistance.

"What do we want of dead reckoning?" he asked. "We get the sun all right, don't we?"

"We mayn't get it always, though," objected Herrick. "And you told me yourself you weren't
sure of the chronometer."

"O, there ain't no flies in the chronometer!" cried Davis.

"Oblige me so far, captain," said Herrick stiffly. "I am anxious to keep this reckoning, which
is a part of my duty; I do not know what to allow for current, nor how to allow for it. I am
too inexperienced; and I beg of you to help me."

"Never discourage zealous officer," said the captain, unrolling the chart again, for Herrick
had taken him over his day's work, and while he was still partly sober. "Here it is: look for
yourself; anything from west to west no'thewest, and anyways from five to twenty-five miles.
That's what the A'm'ralty chart says; I guess you don't expect to get on ahead of your own
Britishers?"

"I am trying to do my duty, Captain Brown," said Herrick, with a dark flush, "and I have the
honour to inform you that I don't enjoy being trifled with."

"What in thunder do you want?" roared Davis. "Go and look at the blamed wake. If you're trying
to do your duty, why don't you go and do it? I guess it's no business of mine to go and stick
my head over the ship's rump? I guess it's yours. And I'll tell you what it is, my fine fellow,
I'll trouble you not to come the dude over me. You're insolent, that's what's wrong with you.
Don't you crowd me, Mr. Herrick, Esquire."

Herrick tore up his papers, threw them on the floor, and left the cabin.

"He's turned a bloomin' swot, ain't he?" sneered Huish.

"He thinks himself too good for his company, that's what ails Herrick, Esquire," raged the
captain. "He thinks I don't understand when he comes the heavy swell. Won't sit down with us,
won't he? won't say a civil word? I'll serve the son of a gun as he deserves. By God, Huish,
I'll show him whether he's too good for John Davis!"

"Easy with the names, cap'," said Huish, who was always the more sober. "Easy over the stones,
my boy!"

"All right, I will. You're a good sort, Huish. I didn't take to you at first, but I guess you're
right enough. Let's open another bottle," said the captain; and that day, perhaps because he
was excited by the quarrel, he drank more recklessly, and by four o'clock was stretched insensible
upon the locker.

Herrick and Huish supped alone, one after the other, opposite his flushed and snorting body.
And if the sight killed Herrick's hunger, the isolation weighed so heavily on the clerk's spirit
that he was scarce risen from table ere he was currying favour with his former comrade.

Herrick was at the wheel when he approached, and Huish leaned confidentially across the binnacle.

"I say, old chappie," he said, "you and me don't seem to be such pals somehow."

Herrick gave her a spoke or two in silence; his eye, as it skirted from the needle to the luff
of the foresail, passed the man by without speculation. But Huish was really dull, a thing
he could support with difficulty, having no resources of his own. The idea of a private talk
with Herrick, at this stage of their relations, held out particular inducements to a person
of his character. Drink besides, as it renders some men hyper-sensitive, made Huish callous.
And it would almost have required a blow to make him quit his purpose.

"Pretty business, ain't it?" he continued; "Dyvis on the lush? Must say I thought you gave
it 'im A1 to-day. He didn't like it a bit; took on hawful after you were gone.--' 'Ere,' says
I, ''old on, easy on the lush,' I says. ''Errick was right and you know it. Give 'im a chanst,'
I says.--' 'Uish,' sezee, 'don't you gimme no more of your jaw, or I'll knock your bloomin'
eyes out.' Well, wot can I do, 'Errick? But I tell you, I don't 'arf like it. It looks to me
like the Sea Rynger over again."

Still Herrick was silent.

"Do you 'ear me speak?" asked Huish sharply. "You're pleasant, ain't you?"

"Stand away from that binnacle," said Herrick.

The clerk looked at him long and straight and black; his figure seemed to writhe like that
of a snake about to strike; then he turned on his heel, went back to the cabin and opened a
bottle of champagne. When eight bells were cried he slept on the floor beside the captain on
the locker; and of the whole starboard watch only Sally Day appeared upon the summons. The
mate proposed to stand the watch with him, and let Uncle Ned lie down; it would make twelve
hours on deck, and probably sixteen, but in this fair-weather sailing he might safely sleep
between his tricks of wheel, leaving orders to be called on any sign of squalls. So far he
could trust the men, between whom and himself a close relation had sprung up. With Uncle Ned
he held long nocturnal conversations, and the old man told him his simple and hard story of
exile, suffering, and injustice among cruel whites. The cook, when he found Herrick messed
alone, produced for him unexpected and sometimes unpalatable dainties, of which he forced himself
to eat. And one day, when he was forward, he was surprised to feel a caressing hand run down
his shoulder, and to hear the voice of Sally Day crooning in his ear: "You gootch man!" He
turned, and, choking down a sob, shook hands with the negrito. They were kindly, cheery, childish
souls. Upon the Sunday each brought forth his separate Bible--for they were all men of alien
speech, even to each other, and Sally Day communicated with his mates in English only; each
read or made-believe to read his chapter, Uncle Ned with spectacles on his nose; and they would
all join together in the singing of missionary hymns. It was thus a cutting reproof to compare
the islanders and the whites aboard the Farallone. Shame ran in Herrick's blood to remember
what employment he was on, and to see these poor souls--and even Sally Day, the child of cannibals,
in all likelihood a cannibal himself--so faithful to what they knew of good. The fact that
he was held in grateful favour by these innocents served like blinders to his conscience, and
there were times when he was inclined, with Sally Day, to call himself a good man. But the
height of his favour was only now to appear. With one voice, the crew protested; ere Herrick
knew what they were doing, the cook was aroused and came a willing volunteer; all hands clustered
about their mate with expostulations and caresses; and he was bidden to lie down and take his
customary rest without alarm.

"He tell you tlue," said Uncle Ned. "You sleep. Evely man hea he do all light. Evely man he
like you too much."

Herrick struggled, and gave way; choked upon some trivial words of gratitude; and walked to
the side of the house, against which he leaned, struggling with emotion.

Uncle Ned presently followed him and begged him to lie down.

"It's no use, Uncle Ned," he replied. "I couldn't sleep. I'm knocked over with all your goodness."

"Ah, no call me Uncle Ned no mo'!" cried the old man. "No my name! My name Taveeta, all-e-same
Taveeta King of Islael. Wat for he call that Hawaii? I think no savvy nothing--all-e-same Wise-a-mana."

It was the first time the name of the late captain had been mentioned, and Herrick grasped
the occasion. The reader shall be spared Uncle Ned's unwieldy dialect, and learn in less embarrassing
English the sum of what he now communicated. The ship had scarce cleared the Golden Gates before
the captain and mate had entered on a career of drunkenness, which was scarcely interrupted
by their malady and only closed by death. For days and weeks they had encountered neither land
nor ship; and seeing themselves lost on the huge deep with their insane conductors, the natives
had drunk deep of terror.

At length they made a low island and went in; and Wiseman and Wishart landed in the boat.

There was a great village, a very fine village, and plenty Kanakas in that place; but all mighty
serious; and from every here and there in the back parts of the settlement, Taveeta heard the
sounds of island lamentation. "I no savvy talk that island," said he. "I savvy hear um cly.
I think, Hum! too many people die here!" But upon Wiseman and Wishart the significance of that
barbaric keening was lost. Full of bread and drink, they rollicked along unconcerned, embraced
the girls, who had scarce energy to repel them, took up and joined (with drunken voices) in
the death-wail, and at last (on what they took to be an invitation) entered under the roof
of a house in which was a considerable concourse of people sitting silent. They stooped below
the eaves, flushed and laughing; within a minute they came forth again with changed faces and
silent tongues; and as the press severed to make way for them, Taveeta was able to perceive,
in the deep shadow of the house, the sick man raising from his mat a head already defeatured
by disease. The two tragic triflers fled without hesitation for their boat, screaming on Taveeta
to make haste; they came aboard with all speed of oars, raised anchor and crowded sail upon
the ship with blows and curses, and were at sea again--and again drunk--before sunset. A week
after, and the last of the two had been committed to the deep. Herrick asked Taveeta where
that island was, and he replied that, by what he gathered of folks' talk as they went up together
from the beach, he supposed it must be one of the Paumotus. This was in itself probable enough,
for the Dangerous Archipelago had been swept that year from east to west by devastating small-pox;
but Herrick thought it a strange course to lie from Sydney. Then he remembered the drink.

"Were they not surprised when they made the island?" he asked.

"Wise-a-mana he say, 'damn! what this?'" was the reply.

"O, that's it, then," said Herrick. "I don't believe they knew where they were."

"I think so too," said Uncle Ned. "I think no savvy. This one mo' betta," he added, pointing
to the house, where the drunken captain slumbered: "Take-a-sun all-e-time."

The implied last touch completed Herrick's picture of the life and death of his two predecessors;
of their prolonged, sordid, sodden sensuality as they sailed, they knew not whither, on their
last cruise. He held but a twinkling and unsure belief in any future state; the thought of
one of punishment he derided; yet for him (as for all) there dwelt a horror about the end of
the brutish man. Sickness fell upon him at the image thus called up; and when he compared it
with the scene in which he himself was acting, and considered the doom that seemed to brood
upon the schooner, a horror that was almost superstitious fell upon him. And yet the strange
thing was, he did not falter. He who had proved his incapacity in so many fields, being now
falsely placed amid duties which he did not understand, without help, and it might be said
without countenance, had hitherto surpassed expectation; and even the shameful misconduct and
shocking disclosures of that night seemed but to nerve and strengthen him. He had sold his
honour; he vowed it should not be in vain; "it shall be no fault of mine if this miscarry,"
he repeated. And in his heart he wondered at himself. Living rage no doubt supported him; no
doubt also, the sense of the last cast, of the ships burned, of all doors closed but one, which
is so strong a tonic to the merely weak, and so deadly a depressent to the merely cowardly.

For some time the voyage went otherwise well. They weathered Fakarava with one board; and the
wind holding well to the southward, and blowing fresh, they passed between Ranaka and Ratiu,
and ran some days north-east by east-half-east under the lee of Takume and Honden, neither
of which they made. In about 14° south, and between 134° and 135° west, it fell a dead calm,
with rather a heavy sea. The captain refused to take in sail, the helm was lashed, no watch
was set, and the Farallone rolled and banged for three days, according to observation, in almost
the same place. The fourth morning, a little before day, a breeze sprang up and rapidly freshened.
The captain had drunk hard the night before; he was far from sober when he was roused; and
when he came on deck for the first time at half-past eight, it was plain he had already drunk
deep again at breakfast. Herrick avoided his eye; and resigned the deck with indignation to
a man more than half-seas-over.

By the loud commands of the captain and the singing out of fellows at the ropes, he could judge
from the house that sail was being crowded on the ship; relinquished his half-eaten breakfast;
and came on deck again, to find the main and the jib topsails set, and both watches and the
cook turned out to hand the staysail. The Farallone lay already far over; the sky was obscured
with misty scud; and from the windward an ominous squall came flying up, broadening and blackening
as it rose.

Fear thrilled in Herrick's vitals. He saw death hard by; and if not death, sure ruin. For if
the Farallone lived through the coming squall, she must surely be dismasted. With that their
enterprise was at an end, and they themselves bound prisoners to the very evidence of their
crime. The greatness of the peril and his own alarm sufficed to silence him. Pride, wrath,
and shame raged without issue in his mind; and he shut his teeth and folded his arms close.

The captain sat in the boat to windward, bellowing orders and insults, his eyes glazed, his
face deeply congested; a bottle set between his knees, a glass in his hand half empty. His
back was to the squall, and he was at first intent upon the setting of the sail. When that
was done, and the great trapezium of canvas had begun to draw and to trail the lee-rail of
the Farallone level with the foam, he laughed out an empty laugh, drained his glass, sprawled
back among the lumber in the boat, and fetched out a crumpled novel.

Herrick watched him, and his indignation glowed red-hot. He glanced to windward where the squall
already whitened the near sea and heralded its coming with a singular and dismal sound. He
glanced at the steersman, and saw him clinging to the spokes with a face of a sickly blue.
He saw the crew were running to their stations without orders. And it seemed as if something
broke in his brain; and the passion of anger, so long restrained, so long eaten in secret,
burst suddenly loose and shook him like a sail. He stepped across to the captain, and smote
his hand heavily on the drunkard's shoulder.

"You brute," he said, in a voice that tottered, "look behind you!"

"Wha's that?" cried Davis, bounding in the boat and upsetting the champagne.

"You lost the Sea Ranger because you were a drunken sot," said Herrick. "Now you're going to
lose the Farallone. You're going to drown here the same way as you drowned others, and be damned.
And your daughter shall walk the streets, and your sons be thieves like their father."

For the moment the words struck the captain white and foolish. "My God!" he cried, looking
at Herrick as upon a ghost; "my God, Herrick!"

"Look behind you, then!" reiterated the assailant.

The wretched man, already partly sobered, did as he was told, and in the same breath of time
leaped to his feet. "Down staysail!" he trumpeted. The hands were thrilling for the order,
and the great sail came with a run, and fell half overboard among the racing foam. "Jib top-sail
halyards! Let the stays'l be," he said again.

But before it was well uttered, the squall shouted aloud and fell, in a solid mass of wind
and rain commingled, on the Farallone; and she stooped under the blow, and lay like a thing
dead. From the mind of Herrick reason fled; he clung in the weather rigging, exulting; he was
done with life, and he gloried in the release; he gloried in the wild noises of the wind and
the choking onslaught of the rain; he gloried to die so, and now, amid this coil of the elements.
And meanwhile, in the waist, up to his knees in water--so low the schooner lay--the captain
was hacking at the fore-sheet with a pocket-knife. It was a question of seconds, for the Farallone
drank deep of the encroaching seas. But the hand of the captain had the advance; the foresail
boom tore apart the last strands of the sheet and crashed to lee-ward; the Farallone leaped
up into the wind and righted; and the peak and throat halyards, which had long been let go,
began to run at the same instant.

For some ten minutes more she careered under the impulse of the squall; but the captain was
now master of himself and of his ship, and all danger at an end. And then, sudden as a trick-change
upon the stage, the squall blew by, the wind dropped into light airs, the sun beamed forth
again upon the tattered schooner; and the captain, having secured the foresail boom and set
a couple of hands to the pump, walked aft, sober, a little pale, and with the sodden end of
a cigar still stuck between his teeth even as the squall had found it. Herrick followed him;
he could scarce recall the violence of his late emotions, but he felt there was a scene to
go through, and he was anxious and even eager to go through with it.

The captain, turning at the house-end, met him face to face, and averted his eyes. "We've lost
the two tops'ls, and the stays'l," he gabbled. "Good business we didn't lose any sticks. I
guess you think we're all the better without the kites."

"That's not what I'm thinking," said Herrick, in a voice strangely quiet, that yet echoed confusion
in the captain's mind.

"I know that," he cried, holding up his hand. "I know what you're thinking. No use to say it
now. I'm sober."

"I have to say it, though," returned Herrick.

"Hold on, Herrick; you've said enough," said Davis. "You've said what I would take from no
man breathing but yourself; only I know it's true."

"I have to tell you, Captain Brown," pursued Herrick, "that I resign my position as mate. You
can put me in irons or shoot me, as you please; I will make no resistance--only, I decline
in any way to help or to obey you; and I suggest you should put Mr. Huish in my place. He will
make a worthy first officer to your captain, sir." He smiled, bowed, and turned to walk forward.

"Where are you going, Herrick?" cried the captain, detaining him by the shoulder.

"To berth forward with the men, sir," replied Herrick, with the same hateful smile. "I've been
long enough aft here with you--gentlemen."

"You're wrong there," said Davis. "Don't you be too quick with me; there ain't nothing wrong
but the drink--it's the old story, man! Let me get sober once and then you'll see," he pleaded.

"Excuse me, I desire to see no more of you," said Herrick.

The captain groaned aloud. "You know what you said about my children?" he broke out.

"By rote. In case you wish me to say it to you again?" asked Herrick.

"Don't!" cried the captain clapping his hands to his ears. "Don't make me kill a man I care
for! Herrick, if you see me put a glass to my lips again till we're ashore, I give you leave
to put a bullet through me; I beg you to do it! You're the only man aboard whose carcase is
worth losing; do you think I don't know that? do you think I ever went back on you? I always
knew you were in the right of it--drunk or sober, I knew that. What do you want?--an oath?
Man, you're clever enough to see that this is sure-enough earnest."

"Do you mean there shall be no more drinking?" asked Herrick, "neither by you nor Huish? that
you won't go on stealing my profits and drinking my champagne that I gave my honour for? and
that you'll attend to your duties, and stand watch and watch, and bear your proper share of
the ship's work, instead of leaving it all on the shoulders of a landsman, and making yourself
the butt and scoff of native seamen? Is that what you mean? If it is, be so good as to say
it categorically."

"You put these things in a way hard for a gentleman to swallow," said the captain. "You wouldn't
have me say I was ashamed of myself? Trust me this once; I'll do the square thing, and there's
my hand on it."

"Well, I'll try it once," said Herrick. "Fail me again...."

"No more now!" interrupted Davis. "No more, old man! Enough said. You've a riling tongue when
your back's up, Herrick. Just be glad we're friends again, the same as what I am; and go tender
on the raws; I'll see as you don't repent it. We've been mighty near death this day--don't
say whose fault it was!--pretty near hell, too, I guess. We're in a mighty bad line of life,
us two, and ought to go easy with each other."

He was maundering; yet it seemed as if he were maundering with some design, beating about the
bush of some communication that he feared to make, or perhaps only talking against time in
terror of what Herrick might say next. But Herrick had now spat his venom; his was a kindly
nature, and, content with his triumph, he had now begun to pity. With a few soothing words
he sought to conclude the interview, and proposed that they should change their clothes.

"Not right yet," said Davis. "There's another thing I want to tell you first. You know what
you said about my children? I want to tell you why it hit me so hard; I kind of think you'll
feel bad about it too. It's about my little Adar. You hadn't ought to have quite said that--but
of course I know you didn't know. She--she's dead, you see."

"Why, Davis!" cried Herrick. "You've told me a dozen times she was alive! Clear your head,
man! This must be the drink."

"No, sir," said Davis. "She's dead. Died of a bowel complaint. That was when I was away in
the brig Oregon. She lies in Portland, Maine. 'Adar, only daughter of Captain John Davis and
Mariar his wife, aged five.' I had a doll for her on board. I never took the paper off'n that
doll, Herrick; it went down the way it was with the Sea Ranger, that day I was damned."

The captain's eyes were fixed on the horizon; he talked with an extraordinary softness, but
a complete composure; and Herrick looked upon him with something that was almost terror.

"Don't think I'm crazy neither," resumed Davis. "I've all the cold sense that I know what to
do with. But I guess a man that's unhappy's like a child; and this is a kind of a child's game
of mine. I never could act up to the plain-cut truth, you see; so I pretend. And I warn you
square; as soon as we're through with this talk, I'll start in again with the pretending. Only,
you see, she can't walk no streets," added the captain, "couldn't even make out to live and
get that doll!"

Herrick laid a tremulous hand upon the captain's shoulder.

"Don't do that!" cried Davis, recoiling from the touch. "Can't you see I'm all broken up the
way it is? Come along, then; come along, old man; you can put your trust in me right through;
come along and get dry clothes."

They entered the cabin, and there was Huish on his knees prizing open a case of champagne.

"'Vast there!" cried the captain. "No more of that. No more drinking on this ship."

"Turned teetotal, 'ave you?" inquired Huish. "I'm agreeable. About time, eh? Bloomin' nearly
lost another ship, I fancy." He took out a bottle and began calmly to burst the wire with the
spike of a corkscrew.

"Do you hear me speak?" cried Davis.

"I suppose I do. You speak loud enough," said Huish. "The trouble is that I don't care."

Herrick plucked the captain's sleeve. "Let him free now," he said. "We've had all we want this
morning."

"Let him have it, then," said the captain. "It's his last."

By this time the wire was open, the string was cut, the head of gilded paper was torn away;
and Huish waited, mug in hand, expecting the usual explosion. It did not follow. He eased the
cork with his thumb; still there was no result. At last he took the screw and drew it. It came
out very easy and with scarce a sound.

"'Illo!" said Huish. "'Ere's a bad bottle."

He poured some of the wine into the mug; it was colourless and still. He smelt and tasted it.

"W'y, wot's this?" he said. "It's water!"

If the voice of trumpets had suddenly sounded about the ship in the midst of the sea, the three
men in the house could scarcely have been more stunned than by this incident. The mug passed
round; each sipped, each smelt of it; each stared at the bottle in its glory of gold paper
as Crusoe may have stared at the footprint; and their minds were swift to fix upon a common
apprehension. The difference between a bottle of champagne and a bottle of water is not great;
between a shipload of one or of the other lay the whole scale from riches to ruin.

A second bottle was broached. There were two cases standing ready in a state-room; these two
were brought out, broken open, and tested. Still with the same result: the contents were still
colourless and tasteless, and dead as the rain in a beached fishing-boat.

"Crikey!" said Huish.

"Here, let's sample the hold," said the captain, mopping his brow with a back-handed sweep;
and the three stalked out of the house, grim and heavy-footed.

All hands were turned out; two Kanakas were sent below, another stationed at a purchase; and
Davis, axe in hand, took his place beside the coamings.

"Are you going to let the men know?" whispered Herrick.

"Damn the men!" said Davis. "It's beyond that. We've got to know ourselves."

Three cases were sent on deck and sampled in turn; from each bottle, as the captain smashed
it with the axe, the champagne ran bubbling and creaming.

"Go deeper, can't you?" cried Davis to the Kanakas in the hold.

The command gave the signal for a disastrous change. Case after case came up, bottle after
bottle was burst, and bled mere water. Deeper yet, and they came upon a layer where there was
scarcely so much as the intention to deceive; where the cases were no longer branded, the bottles
no longer wired or papered, where the fraud was manifest and stared them in the face.

"Here's about enough of this foolery!" said Davis. "Stow back the cases in the hold, Uncle,
and get the broken crockery overboard. Come with me," he added to his co-adventurers, and led
the way back into the cabin.

CHAPTER VI

THE PARTNERS

Each took a side of the fixed table; it was the first time they had sat down at it together;
but now all sense of incongruity, all memory of differences, was quite swept away by the presence
of the common ruin.

"Gentlemen," said the captain, after a pause, and with very much the air of a chairman opening
a board meeting, "we're sold."

Huish broke out in laughter. "Well, if this ain't the 'ighest old rig!" he cried. "And Dyvis
'ere, who thought he had got up so bloomin' early in the mornin'! We've stolen a cargo of spring
water! O, my crikey!" and he squirmed with mirth.

The captain managed to screw out a phantom smile.

"Here's Old Man Destiny again," said he to Herrick, "but this time I guess he's kicked the
door right in."

Herrick only shook his head.

"O Lord, it's rich!" laughed Huish. "It would really be a scrumptious lark if it 'ad 'appened
to somebody else! And what are we to do next? O, my eye! with this bloomin' schooner, too?"

"That's the trouble," said Davis. "There's only one thing certain: it's no use carting this
old glass and ballast to Peru. No, sir, we're in a hole."

"O my, and the merchant!" cried Huish; "the man that made this shipment! He'll get the news
by the mail brigantine; and he'll think of course we're making straight for Sydney."

"Yes, he'll be a sick merchant," said the captain. "One thing: this explains the Kanaka crew.
If you're going to lose a ship, I would ask no better myself than a Kanaka crew. But there's
one thing it don't explain; it don't explain why she came down Tahitiways."

"W'y, to lose her, you byby!" said Huish.

"A lot you know," said the captain. "Nobody wants to lose a schooner; they want to lose her
on her course, you skeericks! You seem to think underwriters haven't got enough sense to come
in out of the rain."

"Well," said Herrick, "I can tell you (I am afraid) why she came so far to the eastward. I
had it of Uncle Ned. It seems these two unhappy devils, Wiseman and Wishart, were drunk on
the champagne from the beginning--and died drunk at the end."

The captain looked on the table.

"They lay in their two bunks, or sat here in this damned house," he pursued, with rising agitation,
"filling their skins with the accursed stuff, till sickness took them. As they sickened and
the fever rose, they drank the more. They lay here howling and groaning, drunk and dying, all
in one. They didn't know where they were; they didn't care. They didn't even take the sun,
it seems."

"Not take the sun?" cried the captain, looking up. "Sacred Billy! what a crowd!"

"Well, it don't matter to Joe!" said Huish. "Wot are Wiseman and t'other buffer to us?"

"A good deal, too," said the captain. "We're their heirs, I guess."

"It is a great inheritance," said Herrick.

"Well, I don't know about that," returned Davis. "Appears to me as if it might be worse. 'Tain't
worth what the cargo would have been, of course, at least not money down. But I'll tell you
what it appears to figure up to. Appears to me as if it amounted to about the bottom dollar
of the man in 'Frisco."

"'Old on," said Huish. "Give a fellow time; 'ow's this, umpire?"

"Well, my sons," pursued the captain, who seemed to have recovered his assurance, "Wiseman
and Wishart were to be paid for casting away this old schooner and its cargo. We're going to
cast away the schooner right enough; and I'll make it my private business to see that we get
paid. What were W. and W. to get? That's more'n I can tell. But W. and W. went into this business
themselves, they were on the crook. Now we're on the square, we only stumbled into it; and
that merchant has just got to squeal, and I'm the man to see that he squeals good. No, sir!
there's some stuffing to this Farallone racket after all."

"Go it, cap'!" cried Huish. "Yoicks! Forrard! 'Old 'ard! There's your style for the money!
Blow me if I don't prefer this to the hother."

"I do not understand," said Herrick. "I have to ask you to excuse me; I do not understand."

"Well, now, see here, Herrick," said Davis. "I'm going to have a word with you anyway upon
a different matter, and it's good that Huish should hear it too. We're done with this boozing
business, and we ask your pardon for it right here and now. We have to thank you for all you
did for us while we were making hogs of ourselves; you'll find me turn-to all right in future;
and as for the wine, which I grant we stole from you, I'll take stock and see you paid for
it. That's good enough, I believe. But what I want to point out to you is this. The old game
was a risky game. The new game's as safe as running a Vienna bakery. We just put this Farallone
before the wind, and run till we're well to looard of our port of departure, and reasonably
well up with some other place where they have an American consul. Down goes the Farallone,
and good-bye to her! A day or so in the boat; the consul packs us home, at Uncle Sam's expense,
to 'Frisco; and if that merchant don't put the dollars down, you come to me!"

"But I thought--" began Herrick; and then broke out: "O, let's get on to Peru!"

"Well, if you're going to Peru for your health, I won't say no!" replied the captain. "But
for what other blame shadow of a reason you should want to go there gets me clear. We don't
want to go there with this cargo; I don't know as old bottles is a lively article anywheres;
leastways, I'll go my bottom cent, it ain't Peru. It was always a doubt if we could sell the
schooner; I never rightly hoped to, and now I'm sure she ain't worth a hill of beans; what's
wrong with her I don't know; I only know it's something, or she wouldn't be here with this
truck in her inside. Then again, if we lose her, and land in Peru, where are we? We can't declare
the loss, or how did we get to Peru? In that case the merchant can't touch the insurance; most
likely he'll go bust; and don't you think you see the three of us on the beach of Callao?"

"There's no extradition there," said Herrick.

"Well, my son, and we want to be extraded," said the captain. "What's our point? We want to
have a consul extrade us as far as San Francisco and that merchant's office door. My idea is
that Samoa would be found an eligible business centre. It's dead before the wind; the States
have a consul there, and 'Frisco steamers call, so's we could skip right back and interview
the merchant."

"Samoa?" said Herrick. "It will take us for ever to get there."

"O, with a fair wind!" said the captain.

"No trouble about the log, eh?" asked Huish.

"No, sir," said Davis. "Light airs and baffling winds. Squalls and calms. D.R.: five miles.
No obs. Pumps attended. And fill in the barometer and thermometer off of last year's trip.
'Never saw such a voyage,' says you to the consul. 'Thought I was going to run short...'" He
stopped in mid career. "'Say," he began again, and once more stopped. "Beg your pardon, Herrick,"
he added with undisguised humility, "but did you keep the run of the stores?"

"Had I been told to do so it should have been done, as the rest was done, to the best of my
little ability," said Herrick. "As it was, the cook helped himself to what he pleased."

Davis looked at the table.

"I drew it rather fine, you see," he said at last. "The great thing was to clear right out
of Papeete before the consul could think better of it. Tell you what: I guess I'll take stock."

And he rose from the table and disappeared with a lamp in the lazarette.

"'Ere's another screw loose," observed Huish.

"My man," said Herrick, with a sudden gleam of animosity, "it is still your watch on deck,
and surely your wheel also?"

"You come the 'eavy swell, don't you, ducky?" said Huish. "Stand away from that binnacle. Surely
your w'eel, my man. Yah."

He lit a cigar ostentatiously, and strolled into the waist with his hands in his pockets.

In a surprisingly short time the captain reappeared; he did not look at Herrick, but called
Huish back and sat down.

"Well," he began, "I've taken stock--roughly." He paused as if for somebody to help him out;
and none doing so, both gazing on him instead with manifest anxiety, he yet more heavily resumed:
"Well, it won't fight. We can't do it; that's the bed-rock. I'm as sorry as what you can be,
and sorrier. But the game's up. We can't look near Samoa. I don't know as we could get to Peru."

"Wot-ju mean?" asked Huish brutally.

"I can't 'most tell myself," replied the captain. "I drew it fine; I said I did; but what's
been going on here gets me! Appears as if the devil had been around. That cook must be the
holiest kind of fraud. Only twelve days too! Seems like craziness. I'll own up square to one
thing: I seem to have figured too fine upon the flour. But the rest--my land! I'll never understand
it! There's been more waste on this twopenny ship than what there is to an Atlantic Liner."
He stole a glance at his companions: nothing good was to be gleaned from their dark faces;
and he had recourse to rage. "You wait till I interview that cook!" he roared, and smote the
table with his fist. "I'll interview the son of a gun so's he's never been spoken to before.
I'll put a bead upon the--!"

"You will not lay a finger on the man," said Herrick. "The fault is yours, and you know it.
If you turn a savage loose in your storeroom, you know what to expect. I will not allow the
man to be molested."

It is hard to say how Davis might have taken this defiance; but he was diverted to a fresh
assailant.

"Well," drawled Huish, "you're a plummy captain, ain't you? You're a blooming captain! Don't
you set up any of your chat to me, John Dyvis: I know you now; you ain't any more use than
a blooming dawl! O, you 'don't know,' don't you? O, it 'gets you,' do it? O, I dessay! W'y,
weren't you 'owling for fresh tins every blessed day? 'Ow often 'ave I 'eard you send the 'ole
bloomin' dinner off and tell the man to chuck it in the swill-tub? And breakfast? O, my crikey!
breakfast for ten, and you 'ollerin' for more! And now you 'can't 'most tell'! Blow me if it
ain't enough to make a man write an insultin' letter to Gawd! You dror it mild, John Dyvis:
don't 'andle me; I'm dyngerous."

Davis sat like one bemused; it might even have been doubted if he heard, but the voice of the
clerk rang about the cabin like that of a cormorant among the ledges of the cliff.

"That will do, Huish," said Herrick.

"O, so you tyke his part, do you? you stuck-up, sneerin' snob. Tyke it then. Come on, the pair
of you. But as for John Dyvis, let him look out! He struck me the first night aboard, and I
never took a blow yet but wot I gave as good. Let him knuckle down on his marrow-bones and
beg my pardon. That's my last word."

"I stand by the captain," said Herrick. "That makes us two to one, both good men; and the crew
will all follow me. I hope I shall die very soon; but I have not the least objection to killing
you before I go. I should prefer it so; I should do it with no more remorse than winking. Take
care--take care--you little cad!"

The animosity with which these words were uttered was so marked in itself, and so remarkable
in the man who uttered them, that Huish stared, and even the humiliated Davis reared up his
head and gazed at his defender. As for Herrick, the successive agitations and disappointments
of the day had left him wholly reckless; he was conscious of a pleasant glow, an agreeable
excitement; his head seemed empty, his eyeballs burned as he turned them, his throat was dry
as a biscuit; the least dangerous man by nature, except in so far as the weak are always dangerous,
at that moment he was ready to slay or to be slain with equal unconcern.

Here at least was the gage thrown down, and battle offered; he who should speak next would
bring the matter to an issue there and then; all knew it to be so and hung back; and for many
seconds by the cabin clock the trio sat motionless and silent.

Then came an interruption, welcome as the flowers in May.

"Land ho!" sang out a voice on deck. "Land a weatha bow!"

"Land!" cried Davis, springing to his feet. "What's this? There ain't no land here."

And as men may run from the chamber of a murdered corpse, the three ran forth out of the house
and left their quarrel behind them undecided.

The sky shaded down at the sea-level to the white of opals; the sea itself, insolently, inkily
blue, drew all about them the uncompromising wheel of the horizon. Search it as they pleased,
not even the practised eye of Captain Davis could descry the smallest interruption. A few filmy
clouds were slowly melting overhead; and about the schooner, as around the only point of interest,
a tropic bird, white as a snow-flake, hung, and circled, and displayed, as it turned, the long
vermilion feather of its tail. Save the sea and the heaven, that was all.

"Who sang out land?" asked Davis. "If there's any boy playing funny-dog with me, I'll teach
him skylarking!"

But Uncle Ned contentedly pointed to a part of the horizon where a greenish, filmy iridescence
could be discerned floating like smoke on the pale heavens.

Davis applied his glass to it, and then looked at the Kanaka. "Call that land?" said he. "Well,
it's more than I do."

"One time long ago," said Uncle Ned, "I see Anaa all-e-same that, four five hours befo' we
come up. Capena he say sun go down, sun go up again; he say lagoon all-e-same milla."

"All-e-same what?" asked Davis.

"Milla, sah," said Uncle Ned.

"O, ah! mirror," said Davis. "I see; reflection from the lagoon. Well, you know, it is just
possible, though it's strange I never heard of it. Here, let's look at the chart."

They went back to the cabin, and found the position of the schooner well to windward of the
archipelago in the midst of a white field of paper.

"There! you see for yourselves," said Davis.

"And yet I don't know," said Herrick; "I somehow think there's something in it. I'll tell you
one thing too, captain: that's all right about the reflection; I heard it in Papeete."

"Fetch up that Findlay, then!" said Davis. "I'll try it all ways. An island wouldn't come amiss
the way we're fixed."

The bulky volume was handed up to him, broken-backed as is the way with Findlay; and he turned
to the place and began to run over the text, muttering to himself and turning over the pages
with a wetted finger.

"Hullo!" he exclaimed. "How's this?" And he read aloud: "'New Island. According to M. Delille
this island, which from private interests would remain unknown, lies, it is said, in lat. 12°
49' 10'' S., long. 133° 6' W. In addition to the position above given, Commander Matthews,
H.M.S. Scorpion, states that an island exists in lat. 12° 0' S., long. 133° 16' W. This must
be the same, if such an island exists, which is very doubtful, and totally disbelieved in by
South Sea traders.'"

"Golly!" said Huish.

"It's rather in the conditional mood," said Herrick.

"It's anything you please," cried Davis, "only there it is! That's our place, and don't you
make any mistake."

"'Which from private interests would remain unknown,'" read Herrick, over his shoulder. "What
may that mean?"

"It should mean pearls," said Davis. "A pearling island the Government don't know about. That
sounds like real estate. Or suppose it don't mean anything. Suppose it's just an island; I
guess we could fill up with fish, and cocoa-nuts, and native stuff, and carry out the Samoa
scheme hand over fist. How long did he say it was before they raised Anaa? Five hours, I think?"

"Four or five," said Herrick.

Davis stepped to the door. "What breeze had you that time you made Anaa, Uncle Ned?" said he.

"Six or seven knots," was the reply.

"Thirty or thirty-five miles," said Davis. "High time we were shortening sail, then. If it
is an island, we don't want to be butting our head against it in the dark; and if it isn't
an island, we can get through it just as well by daylight. Ready about!" he roared.

And the schooner's head was laid for that elusive glimmer in the sky, which began already to
pale in lustre and diminish in size, as the stain of breath vanishes from a window pane. At
the same time she was reefed close down.

PART II

THE QUARTETTE

CHAPTER VII

THE PEARL-FISHER

About four in the morning, as the captain and Herrick sat together on the rail, there arose
from the midst of the night in front of them the voice of breakers. Each sprang to his feet
and stared and listened. The sound was continuous, like the passing of a train; no rise or
fall could be distinguished; minute by minute the ocean heaved with an equal potency against
the invisible isle; and as time passed, and Herrick waited in vain for any vicissitude in the
volume of that roaring, a sense of the eternal weighed upon his mind. To the expert eye the
isle itself was to be inferred from a certain string of blots along the starry heaven. And
the schooner was laid to and anxiously observed till daylight.

There was little or no morning bank. A brightening came in the east; then a wash of some ineffable,
faint, nameless hue between crimson and silver; and then coals of fire. These glimmered a while
on the sea-line, and seemed to brighten and darken and spread out, and still the night and
the stars reigned undisturbed; it was as though a spark should catch and glow and creep along
the foot of some heavy and almost incombustible wall-hanging, and the room itself be scarce
menaced. Yet a little after, and the whole east glowed with gold and scarlet, and the hollow
of heaven was filled with the daylight.

The isle--the undiscovered, the scarce-believed in--now lay before them and close aboard; and
Herrick thought that never in his dreams had he beheld anything more strange and delicate.
The beach was excellently white, the continuous barrier of trees inimitably green; the land
perhaps ten feet high, the trees thirty more. Every here and there, as the schooner coasted
northward, the wood was intermitted; and he could see clear over the inconsiderable strip of
land (as a man looks over a wall) to the lagoon within--and clear over that again to where
the far side of the atoll prolonged its pencilling of trees against the morning sky. He tortured
himself to find analogies. The isle was like the rim of a great vessel sunken in the waters;
it was like the embankment of an annular railway grown upon with wood: so slender it seemed
amidst the outrageous breakers, so frail and pretty, he would scarce have wondered to see it
sink and disappear without a sound, and the waves close smoothly over its descent.

Meanwhile the captain was in the four cross-trees, glass in hand, his eyes in every quarter,
spying for an entrance, spying for signs of tenancy. But the isle continued to unfold itself
in joints, and to run out in indeterminate capes, and still there was neither house nor man,
nor the smoke of fire. Here a multitude of sea-birds soared and twinkled, and fished in the
blue waters; and there, and for miles together, the fringe of coco-palm and pandanus extended
desolate, and made desirable green bowers for nobody to visit, and the silence of death was
only broken by the throbbing of the sea.

The airs were very light, their speed was small; the heat intense. The decks were scorching
underfoot, the sun flamed overhead, brazen, out of a brazen sky; the pitch bubbled in the seams,
and the brains in the brain-pan. And all the while the excitement of the three adventurers
glowed about their bones like a fever. They whispered, and nodded, and pointed, and put mouth
to ear, with a singular instinct of secrecy, approaching that island underhand like eavesdroppers
and thieves; and even Davis from the cross-trees gave his orders mostly by gestures. The hands
shared in this mute strain, like dogs, without comprehending it; and through the roar of so
many miles of breakers, it was a silent ship that approached an empty island.

At last they drew near to the break in that interminable gangway. A spur of coral sand stood
forth on the one hand; on the other a high and thick tuft of trees cut off the view; between
was the mouth of the huge laver. Twice a day the ocean crowded in that narrow entrance and
was heaped between these frail walls; twice a day, with the return of the ebb, the mighty surplusage
of water must struggle to escape. The hour in which the Farallone came there was the hour of
the flood. The sea turned (as with the instinct of the homing pigeon) for the vast receptacle,
swept eddying through the gates, was transmuted, as it did so, into a wonder of watery and
silken hues, and brimmed into the inland sea beyond. The schooner looked up close-hauled, and
was caught and carried away by the influx like a toy. She skimmed; she flew; a momentary shadow
touched her decks from the shoreside trees; the bottom of the channel showed up for a moment
and was in a moment gone; the next, she floated on the bosom of the lagoon, and below, in the
transparent chamber of waters, a myriad of many-coloured fishes were sporting, a myriad pale
flowers of coral diversified the floor.

Herrick stood transported. In the gratified lust of his eye he forgot the past and the present;
forgot that he was menaced by a prison on the one hand and starvation on the other; forgot
that he was come to that island, desperately foraging, clutching at expedients. A drove of
fishes, painted like the rainbow and billed like parrots, hovered up in the shadow of the schooner,
and passed clear of it, and glinted in the submarine sun. They were beautiful, like birds,
and their silent passage impressed him like a strain of song.

Meanwhile, to the eye of Davis in the cross-trees, the lagoon continued to expand its empty
waters, and the long succession of the shoreside trees to be paid out like fishing-line off
a reel. And still there was no mark of habitation. The schooner, immediately on entering, had
been kept away to the nor'ard where the water seemed to be the most deep; and she was now skimming
past the tall grove of trees, which stood on that side of the channel and denied further view.
Of the whole of the low shores of the island only this bight remained to be revealed. And suddenly
the curtain was raised; they began to open out a haven, snugly elbowed there, and beheld, with
an astonishment beyond words, the roofs of men.

The appearance, thus "instantaneously disclosed" to those on the deck of the Farallone, was
not that of a city, rather of a substantial country farm with its attendant hamlet: a long
line of sheds and store-houses; apart, upon the one side, a deep-verandah'd dwelling-house;
on the other, perhaps a dozen native huts; a building with a belfry and some rude offer at
architectural features that might be thought to mark it out for a chapel; on the beach in front
some heavy boats drawn up, and a pile of timber running forth into the burning shallows of
the lagoon. From a flagstaff at the pierhead the red ensign of England was displayed. Behind,
about, and over, the same tall grove of palms, which had masked the settlement in the beginning,
prolonged its roof of tumultuous green fans, and turned and ruffled overhead, and sang its
silver song all day in the wind. The place had the indescribable but unmistakable appearance
of being in commission; yet there breathed from it a sense of desertion that was almost poignant,
no human figure was to be observed going to and fro about the houses, and there was no sound
of human industry or enjoyment. Only, on the top of the beach, and hard by the flagstaff, a
woman of exorbitant stature and as white as snow was to be seen beckoning with uplifted arm.
The second glance identified her as a piece of naval sculpture, the flgure-head of a ship that
had long hovered and plunged into so many running billows, and was now brought ashore to be
the ensign and presiding genius of that empty town.

The Farallone made a soldier's breeze of it; the wind, besides, was stronger inside than without
under the lee of the land; and the stolen schooner opened out successive objects with the swiftness
of a panorama, so that the adventurers stood speechless. The flag spoke for itself; it was
no frayed and weathered trophy that had beaten itself to pieces on the post, flying over desolation;
and to make assurance stronger, there was to be descried in the deep shade of the verandah
a glitter of crystal and the fluttering of white napery. If the figure-head at the pier-end,
with its perpetual gesture and its leprous whiteness, reigned alone in that hamlet as it seemed
to do, it would not have reigned long. Men's hands had been busy, men's feet stirring there,
within the circuit of the clock. The Farallones were sure of it; their eyes dug in the deep
shadow of the palms for some one hiding; if intensity of looking might have prevailed, they
would have pierced the walls of houses; and there came to them, in these pregnant seconds,
a sense of being watched and played with, and of a blow impending, that was hardly bearable.

The extreme point of palms they had just passed enclosed a creek, which was thus hidden up
to the last moment from the eyes of those on board; and from this a boat put suddenly and briskly
out, and a voice hailed.

"Schooner ahoy!" it cried. "Stand in for the pier! In two cables' lengths you'll have twenty
fathoms water and good holding-ground."

The boat was manned with a couple of brown oarsmen in scanty kilts of blue. The speaker, who
was steering, wore white clothes, the full dress of the tropics; a wide hat shaded his face;
but it could be seen that he was of stalwart size, and his voice sounded like a gentleman's.
So much could be made out. It was plain, besides, that the Farallone had been descried some
time before at sea, and the inhabitants were prepared for its reception.

Mechanically the orders were obeyed, and the ship berthed; and the three adventurers gathered
aft beside the house and waited, with galloping pulses and a perfect vacancy of mind, the coming
of the stranger who might mean so much to them. They had no plan, no story prepared; there
was no time to make one; they were caught red-handed and must stand their chance. Yet this
anxiety was chequered with hope. The island being undeclared, it was not possible the man could
hold any office or be in a position to demand their papers. And beyond that, if there was any
truth in Findlay, as it now seemed there should be, he was the representative of the "private
reasons," he must see their coming with a profound disappointment; and perhaps (hope whispered)
he would be willing and able to purchase their silence.

The boat was by that time forging alongside, and they were able at last to see what manner
of man they had to do with. He was a huge fellow, six feet four in height, and of a build proportionately
strong, but his sinews seemed to be dissolved in a listlessness that was more than languor.
It was only the eye that corrected this impression; an eye of an unusual mingled brilliancy
and softness, sombre as coal and with lights that outshone the topaz; an eye of unimpaired
health and virility; an eye that bid you beware of the man's devastating anger. A complexion,
naturally dark, had been tanned in the island to a hue hardly distinguishable from that of
a Tahitian; only his manners and movements, and the living force that dwelt in him, like fire
in flint, betrayed the European. He was dressed in white drill, exquisitely made; his scarf
and tie were of tender-coloured silks; on the thwart beside him there leaned a Winchester rifle.

"Is the doctor on board?" he cried as he came up. "Dr. Symonds, I mean? You never heard of
him? Nor yet of the Trinity Hall? Ah!"

He did not look surprised, seemed rather to affect it in politeness; but his eye rested on
each of the three white men in succession with a sudden weight of curiosity that was almost
savage. "Ah, then!" said he, "there is some small mistake, no doubt, and I must ask you to
what I am indebted for this pleasure?"

He was by this time on the deck, but he had the art to be quite unapproachable; the friendliest
vulgarian, three parts drunk, would have known better than take liberties; and not one of the
adventurers so much as offered to shake hands.

"Well," said Davis, "I suppose you may call it an accident. We had heard of your island, and
read that thing in the Directory about the private reasons, you see; so when we saw the lagoon
reflected in the sky, we put her head for it at once, and so here we are."

"'Ope we don't intrude!" said Huish.

The stranger looked at Huish with an air of faint surprise, and looked pointedly away again.
It was hard to be more offensive in dumb show.

"It may suit me, your coming here," he said. "My own schooner is overdue, and I may put something
in your way in the meantime. Are you open to a charter?"

"Well, I guess so," said Davis; "it depends."

"My name is Attwater," continued the stranger. "You, I presume, are the captain?"

"Yes, sir. I am the captain of this ship: Captain Brown," was the reply.

"Well, see 'ere!" said Huish; "better begin fair! 'E's skipper on deck right enough, but not
below. Below, we're all equal, all got a lay in the adventure; when it comes to business I'm
as good as 'e; and what I say is, let's go into the 'ouse and have a lush, and talk it over
among pals. We've some prime fizz," he said, and winked.

The presence of the gentleman lighted up like a candle the vulgarity of the clerk; and Herrick
instinctively, as one shields himself from pain, made haste to interrupt.

"My name is Hay," said he, "since introductions are going. We shall be very glad if you will
step inside."

Attwater leaned to him swiftly. "University man?" said he.

"Yes, Merton," said Herrick, and the next moment blushed scarlet at his indiscretion.

"I am of the other lot," said Attwater: "Trinity Hall, Cambridge. I called my schooner after
the old shop. Well! this is a queer place and company for us to meet in, Mr. Hay," he pursued,
with easy incivility to the others. "But do you bear out ... I beg this gentleman's pardon,
I really did not catch his name."

"My name is 'Uish, sir," returned the clerk, and blushed in turn.

"Ah!" said Attwater. And then turning again to Herrick, "Do you bear out Mr. Whish's description
of your vintage? or was it only the unaffected poetry of his own nature bubbling up?"

Herrick was embarrassed; the silken brutality of their visitor made him blush; that he should
be accepted as an equal, and the others thus pointedly ignored, pleased him in spite of himself,
and then ran through his veins in a recoil of anger.

"I don't know," he said. "It's only California; it's good enough, I believe."

Attwater seemed to make up his mind. "Well, then, I'll tell you what: you three gentlemen come
ashore this evening and bring a basket of wine with you; I'll try and find the food," he said.
"And by the by, here is a question I should have asked you when I came on board: have you had
small-pox?"

"Personally, no," said Herrick. "But the schooner had it."

"Deaths?" from Attwater.

"Two," said Herrick.

"Well, it is a dreadful sickness," said Attwater.

"'Ad you any deaths?" asked Huish, "'ere on the island?"

"Twenty-nine," said Attwater. "Twenty-nine deaths and thirty-one cases, out of thirty-three
souls upon the island.--That's a strange way to calculate, Mr. Hay, is it not? Souls! I never
say it but it startles me."

"O, so that's why everything's deserted?" said Huish.

"That is why, Mr. Whish," said Attwater; "that is why the house is empty and the graveyard full."

"Twenty-nine out of thirty-three!" exclaimed Herrick. "Why, when it came to burying--or did
you bother burying?"

"Scarcely," said Attwater; "or there was one day at least when we gave up. There were five
of the dead that morning, and thirteen of the dying, and no one able to go about except the
sexton and myself. We held a council of war, took the ... empty bottles ... into the lagoon,
and ... buried them." He looked over his shoulder, back at the bright water. "Well, so you'll
come to dinner, then? Shall we say half-past six? So good of you!"

His voice, in uttering these conventional phrases, fell at once into the false measure of society;
and Herrick unconsciously followed the example.

"I am sure we shall be very glad," he said. "At half-past six? Thank you so very much."

  "'For my voice has been tuned to the note of the gun
    That startles the deep when the combat's begun,'"

quoted Attwater, with a smile, which instantly gave way to an air of funereal solemnity. "I
shall particularly expect Mr. Whish," he continued.--"Mr. Whish, I trust you understand the
invitation?"

"I believe you, my boy!" replied the genial Huish.

"That is right, then; and quite understood, is it not?" said Attwater. "Mr. Whish and Captain
Brown at six-thirty without fault--and you, Hay, at four sharp."

And he called his boat.

During all this talk a load of thought or anxiety had weighed upon the captain. There was no
part for which nature had so liberally endowed him as that of the genial ship-captain. But
to-day he was silent and abstracted. Those who knew him could see that he hearkened close to
every syllable, and seemed to ponder and try it in balances. It would have been hard to say
what look there was, cold, attentive, and sinister, as of a man maturing plans, which still
brooded over the unconscious guest; it was here, it was there, it was nowhere; it was now so
little that Herrick chid himself for an idle fancy; and anon it was so gross and palpable that
you could say every hair on the man's head talked mischief.

He woke up now, as with a start. "You were talking of a charter," said he.

"Was I?" said Attwater. "Well, let's talk of it no more at present."

"Your own schooner is overdue, I understand?" continued the captain.

"You understand perfectly, Captain Brown," said Attwater; "thirty-three days overdue at noon
to-day."

"She comes and goes, eh? plies between here and ...?" hinted the captain.

"Exactly; every four months; three trips in the year," said Attwater.

"You go in her ever?" asked Davis.

"No; one stops here," said Attwater; "one has plenty to attend to."

"Stop here, do you?" cried Davis. "Say, how long?"

"How long, O Lord," said Attwater, with perfect, stern gravity. "But it does not seem so,"
he added, with a smile.

"No, I daresay not," said Davis. "No, I suppose not. Not with all your gods about you, and
in as snug a berth as this. For it is a pretty snug berth," said he, with a sweeping look.

"The spot, as you are good enough to indicate, is not entirely intolerable," was the reply.

"Shell, I suppose?" said Davis.

"Yes, there was shell," said Attwater.

"This is a considerable big beast of a lagoon, sir," said the captain. "Was there a--was the
fishing--would you call the fishing anyways good?"

"I don't know that I would call it anyways anything," said Attwater, "if you put it to me direct."

"There were pearls, too?" said Davis.

"Pearls too," said Attwater.

"Well, I give out!" laughed Davis, and his laughter rang cracked like a false piece. "If you're
not going to tell, you're not going to tell, and there's an end to it."

"There can be no reason why I should affect the least degree of secrecy about my island," returned
Attwater; "that came wholly to an end with your arrival; and I am sure, at any rate, that gentlemen
like you and Mr. Whish I should have always been charmed to make perfectly at home. The point
on which we are now differing--if you can call it a difference--is one of times and seasons.
I have some information which you think I might impart, and I think not. Well, we'll see to-night!
By-by, Whish!" He stepped into his boat and shoved off. "All understood, then?" said he. "The
captain and Mr. Whish at six-thirty, and you, Hay, at four precise. You understand that, Hay?
Mind, I take no denial. If you're not there by the time named, there will be no banquet; no
song, no supper, Mr. Whish!"

White birds whisked in the air above, a shoal of parti-coloured fishes in the scarce denser
medium below; between, like Mahomet's coffin, the boat drew away briskly on the surface, and
its shadow followed it over the glittering floor of the lagoon. Attwater looked steadily back
over his shoulders as he sat; he did not once remove his eyes from the Farallone and the group
on her quarter-deck beside the house, till his boat ground upon the pier. Thence, with an agile
pace, he hurried ashore, and they saw his white clothes shining in the chequered dusk of the
grove until the house received him.

The captain, with a gesture and a speaking countenance, called the adventurers into the cabin.

"Well," he said to Herrick, when they were seated, "there's one good job at least. He's taken
to you in earnest."

"Why should that be a good job?" said Herrick.

"O, you'll see how it pans out presently," returned Davis. "You go ashore and stand in with
him, that's all! You'll get lots of pointers; you can find out what he has, and what the charter
is, and who's the fourth man--for there's four of them, and we're only three."

"And suppose I do, what next?" cried Herrick. "Answer me that!"

"So I will, Robert Herrick," said the captain. "But first, let's see all clear. I guess you
know," he said, with imperious solemnity, "I guess you know the bottom is out of this Farallone
speculation? I guess you know it's right out? and if this old island hadn't been turned up
right when it did, I guess you know where you and I and Huish would have been?"

"Yes, I know that," said Herrick. "No matter who's to blame, I know it. And what next?"

"No matter who's to blame, you know it, right enough," said the captain, "and I'm obliged to
you for the reminder. Now, here's this Attwater: what do you think of him?"

"I do not know," said Herrick. "I am attracted and repelled. He was insufferably rude to you."

"And you, Huish?" said the captain.

Huish sat cleaning a favourite briar-root; he scarce looked up from that engrossing task. "Don't
ast me what I think of him!" he said. "There's a day comin', I pray Gawd, when I can tell it
him myself."

"Huish means the same as what I do," said Davis. "When that man came stepping around, and saying,
'Look here, I'm Attwater'--and you knew it was so, by God!--I sized him right straight up.
He's the real article, I said, and I don't like it; here's the real, first-rate, copper-bottomed
aristocrat. 'Aw! don't know ye, do I? God damn ye, did God make ye?' No, that couldn't be nothing
but genuine; a man's got to be born to that; and notice! smart as champagne and hard as nails;
no kind of a fool; no, sir! not a pound of him! Well, what's he here upon this beastly island
for? I said. He's not here collecting eggs. He's a palace at home, and powdered flunkeys; and
if he don't stay there, you bet he knows the reason why! Follow?"

"O yes, I 'ear you," said Huish.

"He's been doing good business here, then," continued the captain. "For ten years he's been
doing a great business. It's pearl and shell, of course; there couldn't be nothing else in
such a place, and no doubt the shell goes off regularly by this Trinity Hall, and the money
for it straight into the bank, so that's no use to us. But what else is there? Is there nothing
else he would be likely to keep here? Is there nothing else he would be bound to keep here?
Yes, sir; the pearls! First, because they're too valuable to trust out of his hands. Second,
because pearls want a lot of handling and matching; and the man who sells his pearls as they
come in one here, one there, instead of hanging back and holding up--well, that man's a fool,
and it's not Attwater."

"Likely," said Huish, "that's w'at it is; not proved, but likely."

"It's proved," said Davis bluntly.

"Suppose it was?" said Herrick. "Suppose that was all so, and he had these pearls--a ten years'
collection of them?--Suppose he had? There's my question."

The captain drummed with his thick hands on the board in front of him; he looked steadily in
Herrick's face, and Herrick as steadily looked upon the table and the pattering fingers; there
was a gentle oscillation of the anchored ship, and a big patch of sunlight travelled to and
fro between the one and the other.

"Hear me!" Herrick burst out suddenly.

"No, you better hear me first," said Davis. "Hear me and understand me. We've got no use for
that fellow, whatever you may have. He's your kind, he's not ours; he's took to you, and he's
wiped his boots on me and Huish. Save him if you can!"

"Save him?" repeated Herrick.

"Save him, if you're able!" reiterated Davis, with a blow of his clenched fist. "Go ashore,
and talk him smooth; and if you get him and his pearls aboard, I'll spare him. If you don't,
there's going to be a funeral. Is that so, Huish? does that suit you?"

"I ain't a forgiving man," said Huish, "but I'm not the sort to spoil business neither. Bring
the bloke on board and bring his pearls along with him, and you can have it your own way; maroon
him where you like,--I'm agreeable."

"Well, and if I can't?" cried Herrick, while the sweat streamed upon his face. "You talk to
me as if I was God Almighty, to do this and that! But if I can't?"

"My son," said the captain, "you better do your level best, or you'll see sights!"

"O yes," said Huish. "O crikey, yes!" He looked across at Herrick with a toothless smile that
was shocking in its savagery; and, his ear caught apparently by the trivial expression he had
used, broke into a piece of the chorus of a comic song which he must have heard twenty years
before in London: meaningless gibberish that, in that hour and place, seemed hateful as a blasphemy:
"Hikey, pikey, crikey, fikey, chillingawallaba dory."

The captain suffered him to finish; his face was unchanged.

"The way things are, there's many a man that wouldn't let you go ashore," he resumed. "But
I'm not that kind. I know you'd never go back on me, Herrick! Or if you choose to,--go, and
do it, and be damned!" he cried, and rose abruptly from the table.

He walked out of the house; and as he reached the door turned and called Huish, suddenly and
violently, like the barking of a dog. Huish followed, and Herrick remained alone in the cabin.

"Now, see here!" whispered Davis. "I know that man. If you open your mouth to him again, you'll
ruin all."

CHAPTER VIII

BETTER ACQUAINTANCE

The boat was gone again, and already half-way to the Farallone, before Herrick turned and went
unwillingly up the pier. From the crown of the beach, the figure-head confronted him with what
seemed irony, her helmeted head tossed back, her formidable arm apparently hurling something,
whether shell or missile, in the direction of the anchored schooner. She seemed a defiant deity
from the island, coming forth to its threshold with a rush as of one about to fly, and perpetuated
in that dashing attitude. Herrick looked up at her, where she towered above him head and shoulders,
with singular feelings of curiosity and romance, and suffered his mind to travel to and fro
in her life-history. So long she had been the blind conductress of a ship among the waves;
so long she had stood here idle in the violent sun, that yet did not avail to blister her;
and was even this the end of so many adventures? he wondered, or was more behind? And he could
have found it in his heart to regret that she was not a goddess, nor yet he a pagan, that he
might have bowed down before her in that hour of difficulty.

When he now went forward, it was cool with the shadow of many well-grown palms; draughts of
the dying breeze swung them together overhead; and on all sides, with a swiftness beyond dragon-flies
or swallows, the spots of sunshine flitted, and hovered, and returned. Underfoot, the sand
was fairly solid and quite level, and Herrick's steps fell there noiseless as in new-fallen
snow. It bore the marks of having been once weeded like a garden alley at home; but the pestilence
had done its work, and the weeds were returning. The buildings of the settlement showed here
and there through the stems of the colonnade, fresh painted, trim and dandy, and all silent
as the grave. Only here and there in the crypt, there was a rustle and scurry and some crowing
of poultry; and from behind the house with the verandahs he saw smoke arise and heard the crackling
of a fire.

The stone houses were nearest him upon his right. The first was locked; in the second he could
dimly perceive, through a window, a certain accumulation of pearl-shell piled in the far end;
the third, which stood gaping open on the afternoon, seized on the mind of Herrick with its
multiplicity and disorder of romantic things. Therein were cables, windlasses, and blocks of
every size and capacity; cabin-windows and ladders; rusty tanks, a companion hutch; a binnacle
with its brass mountings and its compass idly pointing, in the confusion and dusk of that shed,
to a forgotten pole; ropes, anchors, harpoons: a blubber-dipper of copper, green with years;
a steering-wheel, a tool-chest with the vessel's name upon the top, the Asia: a whole curiosity-shop
of sea-curios, gross and solid, heavy to lift, ill to break, bound with brass and shod with
iron. Two wrecks at the least must have contributed to this random heap of lumber; and as Herrick
looked upon it, it seemed to him as if the two ships' companies were there on guard, and he
heard the tread of feet and whisperings, and saw with the tail of his eye the commonplace ghosts
of sailor men.

This was not merely the work of an aroused imagination, but had something sensible to go upon;
sounds of a stealthy approach were no doubt audible; and while he still stood staring at the
lumber, the voice of his host sounded suddenly, and with even more than the customary softness
of enunciation, from behind.

"Junk," it said, "only old junk! And does Mr. Hay find a parable?"

"I find at least a strong impression," replied Herrick, turning quickly, lest he might be able
to catch, on the face of the speaker, some commentary on the words.

Attwater stood in the doorway, which he almost wholly filled; his hands stretched above his
head and grasping the architrave. He smiled when their eyes met, but the expression was inscrutable.

"Yes, a powerful impression. You are like me; nothing so affecting as ships!" said he. "The
ruins of an empire would leave me frigid, when a bit of an old rail that an old shellback leaned
on in the middle watch, would bring me up all standing. But come, let's see some more of the
island. It's all sand and coral and palm-trees; but there's a kind of a quaintness in the place."

"I find it heavenly," said Herrick, breathing deep, with head bared in the shadow.

"Ah, that's because you're new from sea," said Attwater. "I daresay, too, you can appreciate
what one calls it. It's a lovely name. It has a flavour, it has a colour, it has a ring and
fall to it; it's like its author--it's half Christian! Remember your first view of the island,
and how it's only woods and woods and water; and suppose you had asked somebody for the name,
and he had answered--nemorosa Zacynthos."

"Jam medio apparet fluctu!" exclaimed Herrick. "Ye gods, yes, how good!"

"If it gets upon the chart, the skippers will make nice work of it," said Attwater. "But here,
come and see the diving-shed."

He opened a door, and Herrick saw a large display of apparatus neatly ordered: pumps and pipes,
and the leaded boots, and the huge snouted helmets shining in rows along the wall; ten complete
outfits.

"The whole eastern half of my lagoon is shallow, you must understand," said Attwater; "so we
were able to get in the dress to great advantage. It paid beyond belief, and was a queer sight
when they were at it, and these marine monsters"--tapping the nearest of the helmets--"kept
appearing and reappearing in the midst of the lagoon. Fond of parables?" he asked abruptly.

"O yes!" said Herrick.

"Well, I saw these machines come up dripping and go down again, and come up dripping and go
down again, and all the while the fellow inside as dry as toast!" said Attwater; "and I thought
we all wanted a dress to go down into the world in, and come up scatheless. What do you think
the name was?" he inquired.

"Self-conceit," said Herrick.

"Ah, but I mean seriously!" said Attwater.

"Call it self-respect, then!" corrected Herrick, with a laugh.

"And why not Grace? Why not God's Grace, Hay?" asked Attwater. "Why not the grace of your Maker
and Redeemer, He who died for you, He who upholds you, He whom you daily crucify afresh? There
is nothing here"--striking on his bosom,--"nothing there"--smiting the wall,--"and nothing
there,"--stamping--"nothing but God's Grace! We walk upon it, we breathe it; we live and die
by it; it makes the nails and axles of the universe; and a puppy in pyjamas prefers self-conceit!"
The huge dark man stood over against Herrick by the line of the divers' helmets, and seemed
to swell and glow; and the next moment the life had gone from him--"I beg your pardon," said
he; "I see you don't believe in God?"

"Not in your sense, I am afraid," said Herrick.

"I never argue with young atheists or habitual drunkards," said Attwater flippantly.--"Let
us go across the island to the outer beach."

It was but a little way, the greatest width of that island scarce exceeding a furlong, and
they walked gently. Herrick was like one in a dream. He had come there with a mind divided;
come prepared to study that ambiguous and sneering mask, drag out the essential man from underneath,
and act accordingly; decision being till then postponed. Iron cruelty, an iron insensibility
to the suffering of others, the uncompromising pursuit of his own interests, cold culture,
manners without humanity: these he had looked for, these he still thought he saw. But to find
the whole machine thus glow with the reverberation of religious zeal surprised him beyond words;
and he laboured in vain, as he walked, to piece together into any kind of whole his odds and
ends of knowledge--to adjust again into any kind of focus with itself his picture of the man
beside him.

"What brought you here to the South Seas?" he asked presently.

"Many things," said Attwater. "Youth, curiosity, romance, the love of the sea, and (it will
surprise you to hear) an interest in missions. That has a good deal declined, which will surprise
you less. They go the wrong way to work; they are too parsonish, too much of the old wife,
and even the old apple-wife. Clothes, clothes, are their idea; but clothes are not Christianity,
any more than they are the sun in heaven, or could take the place of it! They think a parsonage
with roses, and church bells, and nice old women bobbing in the lanes, are part and parcel
of religion. But religion is a savage thing, like the universe it illuminates; savage, cold,
and bare, but infinitely strong."

"And you found this island by an accident?" said Herrick.

"As you did!" said Attwater. "And since then I have had a business, and a colony, and a mission
of my own. I was a man of the world before I was a Christian; I'm a man of the world still,
and I made my mission pay. No good ever came of coddling. A man has to stand up in God's sight
and work up to his weight avoirdupois: then I'll talk to him, but not before. I gave these
beggars what they wanted: a judge in Israel, the bearer of the sword and scourge; I was making
a new people here; and behold, the angel of the Lord smote them and they were not!"

With the very uttering of the words, which were accompanied by a gesture, they came forth out
of the porch of the palm wood by the margin of the sea and full in front of the sun, which
was near setting. Before them the surf broke slowly. All around, with an air of imperfect wooden
things inspired with wicked activity, the crabs trundled and scuttled into holes. On the right,
whither Attwater pointed and abruptly turned, was the cemetery of the island, a field of broken
stones from the bigness of a child's hand to that of his head, diversified by many mounds of
the same material, and walled by a rude rectangular enclosure. Nothing grew there but a shrub
or two with some white flowers; nothing but the number of the mounds, and their disquieting
shape, indicated the presence of the dead.

  "The rude forefathers of the hamlet sleep!"

quoted Attwater, as he entered by the open gateway into that unholy close. "Coral to coral,
pebbles to pebbles," he said; "this has been the main scene of my activity in the South Pacific.
Some were good, and some bad, and the majority (of course and always) null. Here was a fellow,
now, that used to frisk like a dog; if you had called him he came like an arrow from a bow;
if you had not, and he came unbidden, you should have seen the deprecating eye and the little
intricate dancing step. Well, his trouble is over now, he has lain down with kings and councillors;
the rest of his acts, are they not written in the book of the chronicles? That fellow was from
Penrhyn; like all the Penrhyn islanders he was ill to manage; heady, jealous, violent: the
man with the nose! He lies here quiet enough. And so they all lie.

  'And darkness was the burier of the dead!'"

He stood, in the strong glow of the sunset, with bowed head; his voice sounded now sweet and
now bitter with the varying sense.

"You loved these people?" cried Herrick, strangely touched.

"I?" said Attwater. "Dear no! Don't think me a philanthropist. I dislike men, and hate women.
If I like the islanders at all, it is because you see them here plucked of their lendings,
their dead birds and cocked hats, their petticoats and coloured hose. Here was one I liked
though," and he set his foot upon a mound. "He was a fine savage fellow; he had a dark soul;
yes, I liked this one. I am fanciful," he added, looking hard at Herrick, "and I take fads.
I like you."

Herrick turned swiftly and looked far away to where the clouds were beginning to troop together
and amass themselves round the obsequies of day. "No one can like me," he said.

"You are wrong there," said the other, "as a man usually is about himself. You are attractive,
very attractive."

"It is not me," said Herrick; "no one can like me. If you knew how I despised myself--and why!"
His voice rang out in the quiet graveyard.

"I knew that you despised yourself," said Attwater. "I saw the blood come into your face to-day
when you remembered Oxford. And I could have blushed for you myself, to see a man, a gentleman,
with these two vulgar wolves."

Herrick faced him with a thrill. "Wolves?" he repeated.

"I said wolves, and vulgar wolves," said Attwater. "Do you know that to-day, when I came on
board, I trembled?"

"You concealed it well," stammered Herrick.

"A habit of mine," said Attwater. "But I was afraid, for all that: I was afraid of the two
wolves." He raised his hand slowly. "And now, Hay, you poor lost puppy, what do you do with
the two wolves?"

"What do I do? I don't do anything," said Herrick. "There is nothing wrong; all is above-board;
Captain Brown is a good soul; he is a ... he is...." The phantom voice of Davis called in his
ear: "There's going to be a funeral"; and the sweat burst forth and streamed on his brow. "He
is a family man," he resumed again, swallowing; "he has children at home and a wife."

"And a very nice man?" said Attwater. "And so is Mr. Whish, no doubt?"

"I won't go so far as that," said Herrick. "I do not like Huish. And yet ... he has his merits
too."

"And, in short, take them for all in all, as good a ship's company as one would ask?" said
Attwater.

"O yes," said Herrick, "quite."

"So then we approach the other point of why you despise yourself?" said Attwater.

"Do we not all despise ourselves?" cried Herrick. "Do not you?"

"Oh, I say I do. But do I?" said Attwater. "One thing I know at least: I never gave a cry like
yours. Hay! it came from a bad conscience! Ah, man, that poor diving-dress of self-conceit
is sadly tattered! To-day, if ye will hear my voice. To-day, now, while the sun sets, and here
in this burying-place of brown innocents, fall on your knees and cast your sins and sorrows
on the Redeemer. Hay----"

"Not Hay!" interrupted the other, strangling. "Don't call me that! I mean.... For God's sake,
can't you see I'm on the rack?"

"I see it, I know it, I put and keep you there; my fingers are on the screws!" said Attwater.
"Please God, I will bring a penitent this night before His throne. Come, come to the mercy-seat!
He waits to be gracious, man--waits to be gracious!"

He spread out his arms like a crucifix; his face shone with the brightness of a seraph's; in
his voice, as it rose to the last word, the tears seemed ready.

Herrick made a vigorous call upon himself. "Attwater," he said, "you push me beyond bearing.
What am I to do? I do not believe. It is living truth to you: to me, upon my conscience, only
folk-lore. I do not believe there is any form of words under heaven by which I can lift the
burthen from my shoulders. I must stagger on to the end with the pack of my responsibility;
I cannot shift it; do you suppose I would not if I thought I could? I cannot--cannot--cannot--and
let that suffice."

The rapture was all gone from Attwater's countenance; the dark apostle had disappeared; and
in his place there stood an easy, sneering gentleman, who took off his hat and bowed. It was
pertly done, and the blood burned in Herrick's face.

"What do you mean by that?" he cried.

"Well, shall we go back to the house?" said Attwater. "Our guests will soon be due."

Herrick stood his ground a moment with clenched fists and teeth; and as he so stood, the fact
of his errand there slowly swung clear in front of him, like the moon out of clouds. He had
come to lure that man on board; he was failing, even if it could be said that he had tried;
he was sure to fail now, and knew it, and knew it was better so. And what was to be next?

With a groan he turned to follow his host, who was standing with polite smile, and instantly
and somewhat obsequiously led the way in the now darkened colonnade of palms. There they went
in silence, the earth gave up richly of her perfume, the air tasted warm and aromatic in the
nostrils; and from a great way forward in the wood, the brightness of lights and fire marked
out the house of Attwater.

Herrick meanwhile resolved and resisted an immense temptation to go up, to touch him on the
arm and breathe a word in his ear: "Beware, they are going to murder you." There would be one
life saved; but what of the two others? The three lives went up and down before him like buckets
in a well, or like the scales of balances. It had come to a choice, and one that must be speedy.
For certain invaluable minutes, the wheels of life ran before him, and he could still divert
them with a touch to the one side or the other, still choose who was to live and who was to
die. He considered the men. Attwater intrigued, puzzled, dazzled, enchanted and revolted him;
alive, he seemed but a doubtful good; and the thought of him lying dead was so unwelcome that
it pursued him, like a vision, with every circumstance of colour and sound. Incessantly he
had before him the image of that great mass of man stricken down in varying attitudes and with
varying wounds; fallen prone, fallen supine, fallen on his side; or clinging to a doorpost
with the changing face and the relaxing fingers of the death-agony. He heard the click of the
trigger, the thud of the ball, the cry of the victim; he saw the blood flow. And this building
up of circumstance was like a consecration of the man, till he seemed to walk in sacrificial
fillets. Next he considered Davis, with his thick-fingered, coarse-grained, oat-bread commonness
of nature, his indomitable valour and mirth in the old days of their starvation, the endearing
blend of his faults and virtues, the sudden shining forth of a tenderness that lay too deep
for tears; his children, Ada and her bowel complaint, and Ada's doll. No, death could not be
suffered to approach that head even in fancy; with a general heat and a bracing of his muscles,
it was borne in on Herrick that Ada's father would find in him a son to the death. And even
Huish showed a little in that sacredness; by the tacit adoption of daily life they were become
brothers; there was an implied bond of loyalty in their cohabitation of the ship and their
past miseries; to which Herrick must be a little true or wholly dishonoured. Horror of sudden
death for horror of sudden death, there was here no hesitation possible: it must be Attwater.
And no sooner was the thought formed (which was a sentence) than his whole mind of man ran
in a panic to the other side: and when he looked within himself, he was aware only of turbulence
and inarticulate outcry.

In all this there was no thought of Robert Herrick. He had complied with the ebb-tide in man's
affairs, and the tide had carried him away; he heard already the roaring of the maelstrom that
must hurry him under. And in his bedevilled and dishonoured soul there was no thought of self.

For how long he walked silent by his companion Herrick had no guess. The clouds rolled suddenly
away; the orgasm was over; he found himself placid with the placidity of despair; there returned
to him the power of commonplace speech; and he heard with surprise his own voice say: "What
a lovely evening!"

"Is it not?" said Attwater. "Yes, the evenings here would be very pleasant if one had anything
to do. By day, of course, one can shoot."

"You shoot?" asked Herrick.

"Yes, I am what you would call a fine shot," said Attwater. "It is faith; I believe my balls
will go true; if I were to miss once, it would spoil me for nine months."

"You never miss, then?" said Herrick.

"Not unless I mean to," said Attwater. "But to miss nicely is the art. There was an old king
one knew in the western islands, who used to empty a Winchester all round a man, and stir his
hair or nick a rag out of his clothes with every ball except the last; and that went plump
between the eyes. It was pretty practice."

"You could do that?" asked Herrick, with a sudden chill.

"O, I can do anything," returned the other. "You do not understand: what must be, must."

They were now come near to the back part of the house. One of the men was engaged about the
cooking-fire, which burned with the clear, fierce, essential radiance of cocoa-nut shells.
A fragrance of strange meats was in the air. All round in the verandahs lamps were lighted,
so that the place shone abroad in the dusk of the trees with many complicated patterns of shadow.

"Come and wash your hands," said Attwater, and led the way into a clean, matted room with a
cot bed, a safe, a shelf or two of books in a glazed case, and an iron washing-stand. Presently
he cried in the native, and there appeared for a moment in the doorway a plump and pretty young
woman with a clean towel.

"Hullo!" cried Herrick, who now saw for the first time the fourth survivor of the pestilence,
and was startled by the recollection of the captain's orders.

"Yes," said Attwater, "the whole colony lives about the house, what's left of it. We are all
afraid of devils, if you please! and Taniera and she sleep in the front parlour, and the other
boy on the verandah."

"She is pretty," said Herrick.

"Too pretty," said Attwater. "That was why I had her married. A man never knows when he may
be inclined to be a fool about women; so when we were left alone I had the pair of them to
the chapel and performed the ceremony. She made a lot of fuss. I do not take at all the romantic
view of marriage," he explained.

"And that strikes you as a safeguard?" asked Herrick with amazement.

"Certainly. I am a plain man and very literal. Whom God hath joined together are the words,
I fancy. So one married them, and respects the marriage," said Attwater.

"Ah!" said Herrick.

"You see, I may look to make an excellent marriage when I go home," began Attwater confidentially.
"I am rich. This safe alone"--laying his hand upon it--"will be a moderate fortune, when I
have the time to place the pearls upon the market. Here are ten years' accumulation from a
lagoon, where I have had as many as ten divers going all day long; and I went further than
people usually do in these waters, for I rotted a lot of shell and did splendidly. Would you
like to see them?"

This confirmation of the captain's guess hit Herrick hard, and he contained himself with difficulty.
"No, thank you, I think not," said he. "I do not care for pearls. I am very indifferent to
all these...."

"Gewgaws?" suggested Attwater. "And yet I believe you ought to cast an eye on my collection,
which is really unique, and which--O! it is the case with all of us and everything about us!--hangs
by a hair. To-day it groweth up and flourisheth; to-morrow it is cut down and cast into the
oven. To-day it is here and together in this safe; to-morrow--to-night!--it may be scattered.
Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee."

"I do not understand you," said Herrick.

"Not?" said Attwater.

"You seem to speak in riddles," said Herrick unsteadily. "I do not understand what manner of
man you are, nor what you are driving at."

Attwater stood with his hands upon his hips, and his head bent forward. "I am a fatalist,"
he replied, "and just now (if you insist on it) an experimentalist. Talking of which, by the
by, who painted out the schooner's name?" he said, with mocking softness, "because, do you
know? one thinks it should be done again. It can still be partly read; and whatever is worth
doing is surely worth doing well. You think with me? That is so nice! Well, shall we step on
the verandah? I have a dry sherry that I would like your opinion of."

Herrick followed him forth to where, under the light of the hanging lamps, the table shone
with napery and crystal; followed him as the criminal goes with the hangman, or the sheep with
the butcher; took the sherry mechanically, drank it, and spoke mechanical words of praise.
The object of his terror had become suddenly inverted; till then he had seen Attwater trussed
and gagged, a helpless victim, and had longed to run in and save him; he saw him now tower
up mysterious and menacing, the angel of the Lord's wrath, armed with knowledge and threatening
judgment. He set down his glass again, and was surprised to see it empty.

"You go always armed?" he said, and the next moment could have plucked his tongue out.

"Always," said Attwater. "I have been through a mutiny here; that was one of my incidents of
missionary life."

And just then the sound of voices reached them, and looking forth from the verandah they saw
Huish and the captain drawing near.

CHAPTER IX

THE DINNER PARTY

They sat down to an island dinner, remarkable for its variety and excellence: turtle-soup and
steak, fish, fowls, a sucking-pig, a cocoa-nut salad, and sprouting cocoa-nut roasted for dessert.
Not a tin had been opened; and save for the oil and vinegar in the salad, and some green spears
of onion which Attwater cultivated and plucked with his own hand, not even the condiments were
European. Sherry, hock, and claret succeeded each other, and the Farallone champagne brought
up the rear with the dessert.

It was plain that, like so many of the extremely religious in the days before teetotalism,
Attwater had a dash of the epicure. For such characters it is softening to eat well; doubly
so to have designed and had prepared an excellent meal for others; and the manners of their
host were agreeably mollified in consequence. A cat of huge growth sat on his shoulder purring,
and occasionally, with a deft paw, capturing a morsel in the air. To a cat he might be likened
himself, as he lolled at the head of his table, dealing out attentions and innuendoes, and
using the velvet and the claw indifferently. And both Huish and the captain fell progressively
under the charm of his hospitable freedom.

Over the third guest the incidents of the dinner may be said to have passed for long unheeded.
Herrick accepted all that was offered him, ate and drank without tasting, and heard without
comprehension. His mind was singly occupied in contemplating the horror of the circumstances
in which he sat. What Attwater knew, what the captain designed, from which side treachery was
to be first expected, these were the ground of his thoughts. There were times when he longed
to throw down the table and flee into the night. And even that was debarred him; to do anything,
to say anything, to move at all, were only to precipitate the barbarous tragedy; and he sat
spellbound, eating with white lips. Two of his companions observed him narrowly, Attwater with
raking, sidelong glances that did not interrupt his talk, the captain with a heavy and anxious
consideration.

"Well, I must say this sherry is a really prime article," said Huish. "'Ow much does it stand
you in, if it's a fair question?"

"A hundred and twelve shillings in London, and the freight to Valparaiso, and on again," said
Attwater. "It strikes one as really not a bad fluid."

"A 'undred and twelve!" murmured the clerk, relishing the wine and the figures in a common
ecstasy: "O my!"

"So glad you like it," said Attwater. "Help yourself, Mr. Whish, and keep the bottle by you."

"My friend's name is Huish and not Whish, sir," said the captain, with a flush.

"I beg your pardon, I am sure. Huish and not Whish; certainly," said Attwater. "I was about
to say that I have still eight dozen," he added, fixing the captain with his eye.

"Eight dozen what?" said Davis.

"Sherry," was the reply. "Eight dozen excellent sherry. Why, it seems almost worth it in itself--to
a man fond of wine."

The ambiguous words struck home to guilty consciences, and Huish and the captain sat up in
their places and regarded him with a scare.

"Worth what?" said Davis.

"A hundred and twelve shillings," replied Attwater.

The captain breathed hard for a moment. He reached out far and wide to find any coherency in
these remarks; then, with a great effort, changed the subject.

"I allow we are about the first white men upon this island, sir," said he.

Attwater followed him at once, and with entire gravity, to the new ground. "Myself and Dr.
Symonds excepted, I should say the only ones," he returned. "And yet who can tell? In the course
of the ages some one may have lived here, and we sometimes think that some one must. The coco-palms
grow all round the island, which is scarce like nature's planting. We found besides, when we
landed, an unmistakable cairn upon the beach; use unknown; but probably erected in the hope
of gratifying some mumbo-jumbo whose very name is forgotten, by some thick-witted gentry whose
very bones are lost. Then the island (witness the Directory) has been twice reported; and since
my tenancy, we have had two wrecks, both derelict. The rest is conjecture."

"Dr. Symonds is your partner, I guess?" said Davis.

"A dear fellow, Symonds! How he would regret it, if he knew you had been here!" said Attwater.

"'E's on the Trinity 'All, ain't he?" asked Huish.

"And if you could tell me where the Trinity 'All was, you would confer a favour, Mr. Whish!"
was the reply.

"I suppose she has a native crew?" said Davis.

"Since the secret has been kept ten years, one would suppose she had," replied Attwater.

"Well, now, see 'ere!" said Huish. "You have everythink about you in no end style, and no mistake,
but I tell you it wouldn't do for me. Too much of 'the old rustic bridge by the mill'; too
retired by 'alf. Give me the sound of Bow Bells!"

"You must not think it was always so," replied Attwater. "This was once a busy shore, although
now, hark! you can hear the solitude. I find it stimulating. And talking of the sound of bells,
kindly follow a little experiment of mine in silence." There was a silver bell at his right
hand to call the servants; he made them a sign to stand still, struck the bell with force,
and leaned eagerly forward. The note rose clear and strong; it rang out clear and far into
the night and over the deserted island; it died into the distance until there only lingered
in the porches of the ear a vibration that was sound no longer. "Empty houses, empty sea, solitary
beaches!" said Attwater. "And yet God hears the bell! And yet we sit in this verandah on a
lighted stage with all heaven for spectators! And you call that solitude?"

There followed a bar of silence, during which the captain sat mesmerised.

Then Attwater laughed softly. "These are the diversions of a lonely man," he resumed, "and
possibly not in good taste. One tells oneself these little fairy tales for company. If there
should happen to be anything in folk-lore, Mr. Hay? But here comes the claret. One does not
offer you Lafitte, captain, because I believe it is all sold to the railroad dining-cars in
your great country; but this Brâne-Mouton is of a good year, and Mr. Whish will give me news
of it."

"That's a queer idea of yours!" cried the captain, bursting with a sigh from the spell that
had bound him. "So you mean to tell me now, that you sit here evenings and ring up ... well,
ring on the angels ... by yourself?"

"As a matter of historic fact, and since you put it directly, one does not," said Attwater.
"Why ring a bell, when there flows out from oneself and everything about one a far more momentous
silence? the least beat of my heart and the least thought in my mind echoing into eternity
for ever and for ever and for ever."

"O, look 'ere," said Huish, "turn down the lights at once, and the Band of 'Ope will oblige!
This ain't a spiritual séance."

"No folk-lore about Mr. Whish--I beg your pardon, captain: Huish, not Whish, of course," said
Attwater.

As the boy was filling Huish's glass, the bottle escaped from his hand and was shattered, and
the wine spilt on the verandah floor. Instant grimness as of death appeared in the face of
Attwater; he smote the bell imperiously, and the two brown natives fell into the attitude of
attention and stood mute and trembling. There was just a moment of silence and hard looks;
then followed a few savage words in the native; and, upon a gesture of dismissal, the service
proceeded as before.

None of the party had as yet observed upon the excellent bearing of the two men. They were
dark, undersized, and well set up; stepped softly, waited deftly, brought on the wines and
dishes at a look, and their eyes attended studiously on their master.

"Where do you get your labour from anyway?" asked Davis.

"Ah, where not?" answered Attwater.

"Not much of a soft job, I suppose?" said the captain.

"If you will tell me where getting labour is!" said Attwater, with a shrug. "And of course,
in our case, as we could name no destination, we had to go far and wide and do the best we
could. We have gone as far west as the Kingsmills and as far south as Rapa-iti. Pity Symonds
isn't here! He is full of yarns. That was his part, to collect them. Then began mine, which
was the educational."

"You mean to run them?" said Davis.

"Ay! to run them," said Attwater.

"Wait a bit," said Davis; "I'm out of my depth. How was this? Do you mean to say you did it
single-handed?"

"One did it single-handed," said Attwater, "because there was nobody to help one."

"By God, but you must be a holy terror!" cried the captain, in a glow of admiration.

"One does one's best," said Attwater.

"Well, now!" said Davis, "I have seen a lot of driving in my time, and been counted a good
driver myself. I fought my way, third mate, round the Cape Horn with a push of packet-rats
that would have turned the devil out of hell and shut the door on him; and I tell you, this
racket of Mr. Attwater's takes the cake. In a ship, why, there ain't nothing to it! You've
got the law with you, that's what does it. But put me down on this blame' beach alone, with
nothing but a whip and a mouthful of bad words, and ask me to ... no, sir! it's not good enough!
I haven't got the sand for that!" cried Davis. "It's the law behind," he added; "it's the law
does it, every time!"

"The beak ain't as black as he's sometimes pynted," observed Huish humorously.

"Well, one got the law after a fashion," said Attwater. "One had to be a number of things.
It was sometimes rather a bore."

"I should smile!" said Davis. "Rather lively, I should think!"

"I daresay we mean the same thing," said Attwater. "However, one way or another, one got it
knocked into their heads that they must work, and they did ... until the Lord took them!"

"'Ope you made 'em jump," said Huish.

"When it was necessary, Mr. Whish, I made them jump," said Attwater.

"You bet you did," cried the captain. He was a good deal flushed, but not so much with wine
as admiration; and his eyes drank in the huge proportions of the other with delight. "You bet
you did, and you bet that I can see you doing it! By God, you're a man, and you can say I said so."

"Too good of you, I'm sure," said Attwater.

"Did you--did you ever have crime here?" asked Herrick, breaking his silence with a pungent voice.

"Yes," said Attwater, "we did."

"And how did you handle that, sir?" cried the eager captain.

"Well, you see, it was a queer case," replied Attwater. "It was a case that would have puzzled
Solomon. Shall I tell it you? yes?"

The captain rapturously accepted.

"Well," drawled Attwater, "here is what it was. I daresay you know two types of natives, which
may be called the obsequious and the sullen? Well, one had them, the types themselves, detected
in the fact; and one had them together. Obsequiousness ran out of the first like wine out of
a bottle, sullenness congested in the second. Obsequiousness was all smiles; he ran to catch
your eye, he loved to gabble; and he had about a dozen words of beach English, and an eighth-of-an-inch
veneer of Christianity. Sullens was industrious; a big down-looking bee. When he was spoken
to, he answered with a black look and a shrug of one shoulder, but the thing would be done.
I don't give him to you for a model of manners; there was nothing showy about Sullens; but
he was strong and steady, and ungraciously obedient. Now Sullens got into trouble; no matter
how; the regulations of the place were broken, and he was punished accordingly--without effect.
So, the next day, and the next, and the day after, till I began to be weary of the business,
and Sullens (I am afraid) particularly so. There came a day when he was in fault again, for
the--O perhaps the thirtieth time; and he rolled a dull eye upon me, with a spark in it, and
appeared to speak. Now the regulations of the place are formal upon one point: we allow no
explanations; none are received, none allowed to be offered. So one stopped him instantly,
but made a note of the circumstance. The next day he was gone from the settlement. There could
be nothing more annoying; if the labour took to running away, the fishery was wrecked. There
are sixty miles of this island, you see, all in length like the Queen's highway; the idea of
pursuit in such a place was a piece of single-minded childishness, which one did not entertain.
Two days later, I made a discovery; it came in upon me with a flash that Sullens had been unjustly
punished from beginning to end, and the real culprit throughout had been Obsequiousness. The
native who talks, like the woman who hesitates, is lost. You set him talking and lying; and
he talks, and lies, and watches your face to see if he has pleased you; till, at last, out
comes the truth! It came out of Obsequiousness in the regular course. I said nothing to him;
I dismissed him; and late as it was, for it was already night, set off to look for Sullens.
I had not far to go: about two hundred yards up the island the moon showed him to me. He was
hanging in a coco-palm--I'm not botanist enough to tell you how--but it's the way, in nine
cases out of ten, these natives commit suicide. His tongue was out, poor devil, and the birds
had got at him. I spare you details: he was an ugly sight! I gave the business six good hours
of thinking in this verandah. My justice had been made a fool of; I don't suppose that I was
ever angrier. Next day, I had the conch sounded and all hands out before sunrise. One took
one's gun, and led the way, with Obsequiousness. He was very talkative; the beggar supposed
that all was right now he had confessed; in the old schoolboy phrase he was plainly 'sucking
up' to me; full of protestations of good-will and good behaviour; to which one answered one
really can't remember what. Presently the tree came in sight, and the hanged man. They all
burst out lamenting for their comrade in the island way, and Obsequiousness was the loudest
of the mourners. He was quite genuine; a noxious creature without any consciousness of guilt.
Well, presently--to make a long story short--one told him to go up the tree. He stared a bit,
looked at one with a trouble in his eye, and had rather a sickly smile; but went. He was obedient
to the last; he had all the pretty virtues, but the truth was not in him. So soon as he was
up he looked down, and there was the rifle covering him; and at that he gave a whimper like
a dog. You could hear a pin drop; no more keening now. There they all crouched upon the ground
with bulging eyes; there was he in the tree-top, the colour of lead; and between was the dead
man, dancing a bit in the air. He was obedient to the last, recited his crime, recommended
his soul to God. And then...."

Attwater paused, and Herrick, who had been listening attentively, made a convulsive movement
which upset his glass.

"And then?" said the breathless captain.

"Shot," said Attwater. "They came to the ground together."

Herrick sprang to his feet with a shriek and an insensate gesture.

"It was a murder!" he screamed, "a cold-hearted, bloody-minded murder! You monstrous being!
Murderer and hypocrite--murderer and hypocrite--murderer and hypocrite----" he repeated, and
his tongue stumbled among the words.

The captain was by him in a moment. "Herrick!" he cried, "behave yourself! Here, don't be a
blame' fool!"

Herrick struggled in his embrace like a frantic child, and suddenly bowing his face in his
hands, choked into a sob, the first of many, which now convulsed his body silently, and now
jerked from him indescribable and meaningless sounds.

"Your friend appears over-excited," remarked Attwater, sitting unmoved but all alert at table.

"It must be the wine," replied the captain. "He ain't no drinking man, you see. I--I think
I'll take him away. A walk'll sober him up, I guess."

He led him without resistance out of the verandah and into the night, in which they soon melted;
but still for some time, as they drew away, his comfortable voice was to be heard soothing
and remonstrating, and Herrick answering, at intervals, with the mechanical noises of hysteria.

"'E's like a bloomin' poultry yard!" observed Huish, helping himself to wine (of which he spilled
a good deal) with gentlemanly ease. "A man should learn to beyave at table," he added.

"Rather bad form, is it not?" said Attwater. "Well, well, we are left tête-à-tête. A glass
of wine with you, Mr. Whish!"

CHAPTER X

THE OPEN DOOR

The captain and Herrick meanwhile turned their back upon the lights in Attwater's verandah,
and took a direction towards the pier and the beach of the lagoon.

The isle, at this hour, with its smooth floor of sand, the pillared roof overhead, and the
prevalent illumination of the lamps, wore an air of unreality, like a deserted theatre or a
public garden at midnight. A man looked about him for the statues and tables. Not the least
air of wind was stirring among the palms, and the silence was emphasised by the continuous
clamour of the surf from the seashore, as it might be of traffic in the next street.

Still talking, still soothing him, the captain hurried his patient on, brought him at last
to the lagoon side, and leading him down the beach, laved his head and face with the tepid
water. The paroxysm gradually subsided, the sobs became less convulsive and then ceased; by
an odd but not quite unnatural conjunction, the captain's soothing current of talk died away
at the same time and by proportional steps, and the pair remained sunk in silence. The lagoon
broke at their feet in petty wavelets, and with a sound as delicate as a whisper; stars of
all degrees looked down on their own images in that vast mirror; and the more angry colour
of the Farallone's riding lamp burned in the middle distance. For long they continued to gaze
on the scene before them, and hearken anxiously to the rustle and tinkle of that miniature
surf, or the more distant and loud reverberations from the outer coast. For long speech was
denied them; and when the words came at last, they came to both simultaneously.

"Say, Herrick ..." the captain was beginning.

But Herrick, turning swiftly towards his companion, bent him down with the eager cry: "Let's
up anchor, captain, and to sea!"

"Where to, my son?" said the captain. "Up anchor's easy saying. But where to?"

"To sea," responded Herrick. "The sea's big enough! To sea--away from this dreadful island
and that, O! that sinister man!"

"O, we'll see about that," said Davis. "You brace up, and we'll see about that. You're all
run down, that's what's wrong with you; you're all nerves, like Jemimar; you've got to brace
up good and be yourself again, and then we'll talk."

"To sea," reiterated Herrick, "to sea to-night--now--this moment!"

"It can't be, my son," replied the captain firmly. "No ship of mine puts to sea without provisions;
you can take that for settled."

"You don't seem to understand," said Herrick. "The whole thing is over, I tell you. There is
nothing to do here, when he knows all. That man there with the cat knows all; can't you take
it in?"

"All what?" asked the captain, visibly discomposed. "Why, he received us like a perfect gentleman
and treated us real handsome, until you began with your foolery--and I must say I seen men
shot for less, and nobody sorry! What more do you expect anyway?"

Herrick rocked to and fro upon the sand, shaking his head.

"Guying us," he said; "he was guying us--only guying us; it's all we're good for."

"There was one queer thing, to be sure," admitted the captain, with a misgiving of the voice;
"that about the sherry. Damned if I caught on to that. Say, Herrick, you didn't give me away?"

"O! give you away!" repeated Herrick with weary, querulous scorn. "What was there to give away?
We're transparent; we've got rascal branded on us: detected rascal--detected rascal! Why, before
he came on board, there was the name painted out, and he saw the whole thing. He made sure
we would kill him there and then, and stood guying you and Huish on the chance. He calls that
being frightened! Next he had me ashore; a fine time I had! The two wolves, he calls you and
Huish. What is the puppy doing with the two wolves? he asked. He showed me his pearls; he said
they might be dispersed before morning, and all hung by a hair--and smiled as he said it, such
a smile! O, it's no use, I tell you! He knows all, he sees through all; we only make him laugh
with our pretences--he looks at us and laughs like God!"

There was a silence. Davis stood with contorted brows, gazing into the night.

"The pearls?" he said suddenly. "He showed them to you? He has them?"

"No, he didn't show them; I forgot: only the safe they were in," said Herrick. "But you'll
never get them!"

"I've two words to say to that," said the captain.

"Do you think he would have been so easy at table, unless he was prepared?" cried Herrick.
"The servants were both armed. He was armed himself; he always is; he told me. You will never
deceive his vigilance. Davis, I know it! It's all up, I tell you, and keep telling you and
proving it. All up; all up. There's nothing for it, there's nothing to be done: all gone: life,
honour, love. O my God, my God, why was I born?"

Another pause followed upon this outburst.

The captain put his hands to his brow.

"Another thing!" he broke out. "Why did he tell you all this? Seems like madness to me!"

Herrick shook his head with gloomy iteration. "You wouldn't understand if I were to tell you,"
said he.

"I guess I can understand any blame' thing that you can tell me," said the captain.

"Well, then, he's a fatalist," said Herrick.

"What's that? a fatalist?" said Davis.

"O, it's a fellow that believes a lot of things," said Herrick; "believes that his bullets
go true; believes that all falls out as God chooses, do as you like to prevent it; and all that."

"Why, I guess I believe right so myself," said Davis.

"You do?" said Herrick.

"You bet I do!" says Davis.

Herrick shrugged his shoulders. "Well, you must be a fool," said he, and he leaned his head
upon his knees.

The captain stood biting his hands.

"There's one thing sure," he said at last. "I must get Huish out of that. He's not fit to hold
his end up with a man like you describe."

And he turned to go away. The words had been quite simple; not so the tone; and the other was
quick to catch it.

"Davis!" he cried, "no! Don't do it. Spare me, and don't do it--spare yourself, and leave it
alone--for God's sake, for your children's sake!"

His voice rose to a passionate shrillness; another moment, and he might be overheard by their
not distant victim. But Davis turned on him with a savage oath and gesture; and the miserable
young man rolled over on his face on the sand, and lay speechless and helpless.

The captain meanwhile set out rapidly for Attwater's house. As he went, he considered with
himself eagerly, his thoughts racing. The man had understood, he had mocked them from the beginning;
he would teach him to make a mockery of John Davis! Herrick thought him a god; give him a second
to aim in, and the god was overthrown. He chuckled as he felt the butt of his revolver. It
should be done now, as he went in. From behind? It was difficult to get there. From across
the table? No, the captain preferred to shoot standing, so as you could be sure to get your
hand upon your gun. The best would be to summon Huish, and when Attwater stood up and turned--ah,
then would be the moment. Wrapped in this ardent prefiguration of events, the captain posted
towards the house with his head down.

"Hands up! Halt!" cried the voice of Attwater.

And the captain, before he knew what he was doing, had obeyed. The surprise was complete and
irremediable. Coming on the top crest of his murderous intentions, he had walked straight into
an ambuscade, and now stood, with his hands impotently lifted, staring at the verandah.

The party was now broken up. Attwater leaned on a post, and kept Davis covered with a Winchester.
One of the servants was hard by with a second at the port arms, leaning a little forward, round-eyed
with eager expectancy. In the open space at the head of the stair, Huish was partly supported
by the other native; his face wreathed in meaningless smiles, his mind seemingly sunk in the
contemplation of an unlighted cigar.

"Well," said Attwater, "you seem to me to be a very twopenny pirate!"

The captain uttered a sound in his throat for which we have no name; rage choked him.

"I am going to give you Mr. Whish--or the wine-sop that remains of him," continued Attwater.
"He talks a great deal when he drinks, Captain Davis of the Sea Ranger. But I have quite done
with him--and return the article with thanks. Now," he cried sharply; "another false movement
like that, and your family will have to deplore the loss of an invaluable parent; keep strictly
still, Davis."

Attwater said a word in the native, his eye still undeviatingly fixed on the captain; and the
servant thrust Huish smartly forward from the brink of the stair. With an extraordinary simultaneous
dispersion of his members, that gentleman bounded forth into space, struck the earth, ricocheted,
and brought up with his arms about a palm. His mind was quite a stranger to these events; the
expression of anguish that deformed his countenance at the moment of the leap was probably
mechanical; and he suffered these convulsions in silence; clung to the tree like an infant;
and seemed, by his dips, to suppose himself engaged in the pastime of bobbing for apples. A
more finely sympathetic mind or a more observant eye might have remarked, a little in front
of him on the sand and still quite beyond reach, the unlighted cigar.

"There is your Whitechapel carrion!" said Attwater. "And now you might very well ask me why
I do not put a period to you at once, as you deserve. I will tell you why, Davis. It is because
I have nothing to do with the Sea Ranger and the people you drowned, or the Farallone and the
champagne that you stole. That is your account with God; He keeps it, and He will settle it
when the clock strikes. In my own case, I have nothing to go on but suspicion, and I do not
kill on suspicion, not even vermin like you. But understand: if ever I see any of you again,
it is another matter, and you shall eat a bullet. And now take yourself off. March! and as
you value what you call your life, keep your hands up as you go!"

The captain remained as he was, his hands up, his mouth open: mesmerised with fury.

"March!" said Attwater. "One--two--three!"

And Davis turned and passed slowly away. But even as he went, he was meditating a prompt, offensive
return. In the twinkling of an eye he had leaped behind a tree; and was crouching there, pistol
in hand, peering from either side of his place of ambush with bared teeth; a serpent already
poised to strike. And already he was too late. Attwater and his servants had disappeared; and
only the lamps shone on the deserted table and the bright sand about the house, and threw into
the night in all directions the strong and tall shadows of the palms.

Davis ground his teeth. Where were they gone, the cowards? to what hole had they retreated
beyond reach? It was in vain he should try anything, he, single and with a second-hand revolver,
against three persons, armed with Winchesters, and who did not show an ear out of any of the
apertures of that lighted and silent house? Some of them might have already ducked below it
from the rear, and be drawing a bead upon him at that moment from the low-browed crypt, the
receptacle of empty bottles and broken crockery. No, there was nothing to be done but to bring
away (if it were still possible) his shattered and demoralised forces.

"Huish," he said, "come along."

"'S lose my ciga'," said Huish, reaching vaguely forward.

The captain let out a rasping oath. "Come right along here," said he.

"'S all righ'. Sleep here 'th Atty-Attwa. Go boar' t'morr'," replied the festive one.

"If you don't come, and come now, by the living God, I'll shoot you!" cried the captain.

It is not to be supposed that the sense of these words in any way penetrated to the mind of
Huish; rather that, in a fresh attempt upon the cigar, he overbalanced himself and came flying
erratically forward: a course which brought him within reach of Davis.

"Now you walk straight," said the captain, clutching him, "or I'll know why not!"

"'S lose my ciga'," replied Huish.

The captain's contained fury blazed up for a moment. He twisted Huish round, grasped him by
the neck of the coat, ran him in front of him to the pier-end, and flung him savagely forward
on his face.

"Look for your cigar then, you swine!" said he, and blew his boat-call till the pea in it ceased
to rattle.

An immediate activity responded on board the Farallone; far-away voices, and soon the sound
of oars, floated along the surface of the lagoon; and at the same time, from nearer hand, Herrick
aroused himself and strolled languidly up. He bent over the insignificant figure of Huish,
where it grovelled, apparently insensible, at the base of the figure-head.

"Dead?" he asked.

"No, he's not dead," said Davis.

"And Attwater?" asked Herrick.

"Now you just shut your head!" replied Davis. "You can do that, I fancy, and by God, I'll show
you how! I'll stand no more of your drivel."

They waited accordingly in silence till the boat bumped on the farthest piers; then raised
Huish, head and heels, carried him down the gangway, and flung him summarily in the bottom.
On the way out he was heard murmuring of the loss of his cigar; and after he had been handed
up the side like baggage, and cast down in the alleyway to slumber, his last audible expression
was: "Splen'l fl' Attwa'!" This the expert construed into "Splendid fellow, Attwater"; with
so much innocence had this great spirit issued from the adventures of the evening.

The captain went and walked in the waist with brief irate turns; Herrick leaned his arms on
the taffrail; the crew had all turned in. The ship had a gentle, cradling motion; at times
a block piped like a bird. On shore, through the colonnade of palm stems, Attwater's house
was to be seen shining steadily with many lamps. And there was nothing else visible, whether
in the heaven above or in the lagoon below, but the stars and their reflections. It might have
been minutes, or it might have been hours, that Herrick leaned there, looking in the glorified
water and drinking peace. "A bath of stars," he was thinking; when a hand was laid at last
on his shoulder.

"Herrick," said the captain, "I've been walking off my trouble."

A sharp jar passed through the young man, but he neither answered nor so much as turned his head.

"I guess I spoke a little rough to you on shore," pursued the captain; "the fact is, I was
real mad; but now it's over, and you and me have to turn to and think."

"I will not think," said Herrick.

"Here, old man!" said Davis kindly; "this won't fight, you know! You've got to brace up and
help me get things straight. You're not going back on a friend? That's not like you, Herrick!"

"O yes, it is," said Herrick.

"Come, come!" said the captain, and paused as if quite at a loss. "Look here," he cried, "you
have a glass of champagne. I won't touch it, so that'll show you if I'm in earnest. But it's
just the pick-me-up for you; it'll put an edge on you at once."

"O, you leave me alone!" said Herrick, and turned away.

The captain caught him by the sleeve; and he shook him off and turned on him, for the moment
like a demoniac.

"Go to hell in your own way!" he cried.

And he turned away again, this time unchecked, and stepped forward to where the boat rocked
alongside and ground occasionally against the schooner. He looked about him. A corner of the
house was interposed between the captain and himself; all was well; no eye must see him in
that last act. He slid silently into the boat; thence, silently, into the starry water. Instinctively
he swam a little; it would be time enough to stop by and by.

The shock of the immersion brightened his mind immediately. The events of the ignoble day passed
before him in a frieze of pictures, and he thanked "whatever Gods there be" for that open door
of suicide. In such a little while he would be done with it, the random business at an end,
the prodigal son come home. A very bright planet shone before him and drew a trenchant wake
along the water. He took that for his line and followed it.

That was the last earthly thing that he should look upon; that radiant speck, which he had
soon magnified into a City of Laputa, along whose terraces there walked men and women of awful
and benignant features, who viewed him with distant commiseration. These imaginary spectators
consoled him; he told himself their talk, one to another; it was of himself and his sad destiny.

From such flights of fancy he was aroused by the growing coldness of the water. Why should
he delay? Here, where he was now, let him drop the curtain, let him seek the ineffable refuge,
let him lie down with all races and generations of men in the house of sleep. It was easy to
say, easy to do. To stop swimming: there was no mystery in that, if he could do it. Could he?
And he could not. He knew it instantly. He was aware instantly of an opposition in his members,
unanimous and invincible, clinging to life with a single and fixed resolve, finger by finger,
sinew by sinew; something that was at once he and not he--at once within and without him; the
shutting of some miniature valve in his brain, which a single manly thought should suffice
to open--and the grasp of an external fate ineluctable as gravity. To any man there may come
at times a consciousness that there blows, through all the articulations of his body, the wind
of a spirit not wholly his; that his mind rebels; that another girds him and carries him whither
he would not. It came now to Herrick, with the authority of a revelation. There was no escape
possible. The open door was closed in his recreant face. He must go back into the world and
amongst men without illusion. He must stagger on to the end with the pack of his responsibility
and his disgrace, until a cold, a blow, a merciful chance ball, or the more merciful hangman,
should dismiss him from his infamy. There were men who could commit suicide; there were men
who could not; and he was one who could not.

For perhaps a minute there raged in his mind the coil of this discovery; then cheerless certitude
followed; and, with an incredible simplicity of submission to ascertained fact, he turned round
and struck out for shore. There was a courage in this which he could not appreciate; the ignobility
of his cowardice wholly occupying him. A strong current set against him like a wind in his
face; he contended with it heavily, wearily, without enthusiasm, but with substantial advantage;
marking his progress the while, without pleasure, by the outline of the trees. Once he had
a moment of hope. He heard to the southward of him, towards the centre of the lagoon, the wallowing
of some great fish, doubtless a shark, and paused for a little, treading water. Might not this
be the hangman? he thought. But the wallowing died away; mere silence succeeded; and Herrick
pushed on again for the shore, raging as he went at his own nature. Ay, he would wait for the
shark; but if he had heard him coming!... His smile was tragic. He could have spat upon himself.

About three in the morning, chance, and the set of the current, and the bias of his own right-handed
body so decided it between them that he came to shore upon the beach in front of Attwater's.
There he sat down, and looked forth into a world without any of the lights of hope. The poor
diving-dress of self-conceit was sadly tattered! With the fairy tale of suicide, of a refuge
always open to him, he had hitherto beguiled and supported himself in the trials of life; and
behold! that also was only a fairy tale, that also was folk-lore. With the consequences of
his acts he saw himself implacably confronted for the duration of life: stretched upon a cross,
and nailed there with the iron bolts of his own cowardice. He had no tears; he told himself
no stories. His disgust with himself was so complete, that even the process of apologetic mythology
had ceased. He was like a man cast down from a pillar, and every bone broken. He lay there,
and admitted the facts, and did not attempt to rise.

Dawn began to break over the far side of the atoll, the sky brightened, the clouds became dyed
with gorgeous colours, the shadows of the night lifted. And, suddenly, Herrick was aware that
the lagoon and the trees wore again their daylight livery; and he saw, on board the Farallone,
Davis extinguishing the lantern, and smoke rising from the galley.

Davis, without doubt, remarked and recognised the figure on the beach; or perhaps hesitated
to recognise it; for after he had gazed a long while from under his hand, he went into the
house and fetched a glass. It was very powerful; Herrick had often used it. With an instinct
of shame he hid his face in his hands.

"And what brings you here, Mr. Herrick-Hay, or Mr. Hay-Herrick?" asked the voice of Attwater.
"Your back view from my present position is remarkably fine, and I would continue to present
it. We can get on very nicely as we are, and if you were to turn round, do you know? I think
it would be awkward."

Herrick slowly rose to his feet; his heart throbbed hard, a hideous excitement shook him, but
he was master of himself. Slowly he turned and faced Attwater and the muzzle of a pointed rifle.
"Why could I not do that last night?" he thought.

"Well, why don't you fire?" he said aloud, in a voice that trembled.

Attwater slowly put his gun under his arm, then his hands in his pockets.

"What brings you here?" he repeated.

"I don't know," said Herrick; and then, with a cry: "Can you do anything with me?"

"Are you armed?" said Attwater. "I ask for the form's sake."

"Armed? No!" said Herrick. "O yes, I am, too!"

And he flung upon the beach a dripping pistol.

"You are wet," said Attwater.

"Yes, I am wet," said Herrick. "Can you do anything with me?"

Attwater read his face attentively.

"It would depend a good deal upon what you are," said he.

"What I am? A coward!" said Herrick.

"There is very little to be done with that," said Attwater. "And yet the description hardly
strikes one as exhaustive."

"O, what does it matter?" cried Herrick. "Here I am. I am broken crockery; I am a burst drum;
the whole of my life is gone to water; I have nothing left that I believe in, except my living
horror of myself. Why do I come to you? I don't know; you are cold, cruel, hateful; and I hate
you, or I think I hate you. But you are an honest man, an honest gentleman. I put myself, helpless,
in your hands. What must I do? If I can't do anything, be merciful and put a bullet through
me; it's only a puppy with a broken leg!"

"If I were you, I would pick up that pistol, come up to the house, and put on some dry clothes,"
said Attwater.

"If you really mean it?" said Herrick. "You know they--we--they.... But you know all."

"I know quite enough," said Attwater. "Come up to the house."

And the captain, from the deck of the Farallone, saw the two men pass together under the shadow
of the grove.

CHAPTER XI

DAVID AND GOLIATH

Huish had bundled himself up from the glare of the day--his face to the house, his knees retracted.
The frail bones in the thin tropical raiment seemed scarce more considerable than a fowl's;
and Davis, sitting on the rail with his arm about a stay, contemplated him with gloom, wondering
what manner of counsel that insignificant figure should contain. For since Herrick had thrown
him off and deserted to the enemy, Huish, alone of mankind, remained to him to be a helper
and oracle.

He considered their position with a sinking heart. The ship was a stolen ship; the stores,
whether from initial carelessness or ill administration during the voyage, were insufficient
to carry them to any port except back to Papeete; and there retribution waited in the shape
of a gendarme, a judge with a queer-shaped hat, and the horror of distant Noumea. Upon that
side there was no glimmer of hope. Here, at the island, the dragon was roused; Attwater with
his men and his Winchesters watched and patrolled the house; let him who dare approach it.
What else was then left but to sit there, inactive, pacing the decks, until the Trinity Hall
arrived and they were cast into irons, or until the food came to an end, and the pangs of famine
succeeded? For the Trinity Hall Davis was prepared; he would barricade the house, and die there
defending it, like a rat in a crevice. But for the other? The cruise of the Farallone, into
which he had plunged, only a fortnight before, with such golden expectations, could this be
the nightmare end of it? The ship rotting at anchor, the crew stumbling and dying in the scuppers?
It seemed as if any extreme of hazard were to be preferred to so grisly a certainty; as if
it would be better to up-anchor after all, put to sea at a venture, and, perhaps, perish at
the hands of cannibals on one of the more obscure Paumotus. His eye roved swiftly over sea
and sky in quest of any promise of wind, but the fountains of the Trade were empty. Where it
had run yesterday and for weeks before, a roaring blue river charioting clouds, silence now
reigned; and the whole height of the atmosphere stood balanced. On the endless ribbon of island
that stretched out to either hand of him its array of golden and green and silvery palms, not
the most volatile frond was to be seen stirring; they drooped to their stable images in the
lagoon like things carved of metal, and already their long line began to reverberate heat.
There was no escape possible that day, none probable on the morrow. And still the stores were
running out!

Then came over Davis, from deep down in the roots of his being, or at least from far back among
his memories of childhood and innocence, a wave of superstition. This run of ill-luck was something
beyond natural; the chances of the game were in themselves more various: it seemed as if the
devil must serve the pieces. The devil? He heard again the clear note of Attwater's bell ringing
abroad into the night, and dying away. How if God...?

Briskly he averted his mind. Attwater: that was the point. Attwater had food and a treasure
of pearls; escape made possible in the present, riches in the future. They must come to grips
with Attwater; the man must die. A smoky heat went over his face, as he recalled the impotent
figure he had made last night, and the contemptuous speeches he must bear in silence. Rage,
shame, and the love of life, all pointed the one way; and only invention halted: how to reach
him? had he strength enough? was there any help in that misbegotten packet of bones against
the house?

His eyes dwelled upon him with a strange avidity, as though he would read into his soul; and
presently the sleeper moved, stirred uneasily, turned suddenly round, and threw him a blinking
look. Davis maintained the same dark stare, and Huish looked away again and sat up.

"Lord, I've an 'eadache on me!" said he. "I believe I was a bit swipey last night. W'ere's
that cry-byby 'Errick?"

"Gone," said the captain.

"Ashore?" cried Huish. "O, I say! I'd 'a gone too."

"Would you?" said the captain.

"Yes, I would," replied Huish. "I like Attwater. 'E's all right; we got on like one o'clock
when you were gone. And ain't his sherry in it, rather? It's like Spiers and Pond's Amontillado!
I wish I 'ad a drain of it now." He sighed.

"Well, you'll never get no more of it--that's one thing," said Davis gravely.

"'Ere, wot's wrong with you, Dyvis? Coppers 'ot? Well, look at me! I ain't grumpy," said Huish;
"I'm as plyful as a canary-bird, I am."

"Yes," said Davis, "you're playful; I own that; and you were playful last night, I believe,
and a damned fine performance you made of it."

"'Allo!" said Huish. "'Ow's this? Wot performance?"

"Well, I'll tell you," said the captain, getting slowly off the rail.

And he did: at full length, with every wounding epithet and absurd detail repeated and emphasised;
he had his own vanity and Huish's upon the grill, and roasted them; and as he spoke he inflicted
and endured agonies of humiliation. It was a plain man's masterpiece of the sardonic.

"What do you think of it?" said he, when he had done, and looked down at Huish, flushed and
serious, and yet jeering.

"I'll tell you wot it is," was the reply: "you and me cut a pretty dicky figure."

"That's so," said Davis, "a pretty measly figure, by God! And, by God, I want to see that man
at my knees."

"Ah!" said Huish. "'Ow to get him there?"

"That's it!" cried Davis. "How to get hold of him! They're four to two; though there's only
one man among them to count, and that's Attwater. Get a bead on Attwater, and the others would
cut and run and sing out like frightened poultry--and old man Herrick would come round with
his hat for a share of the pearls. No, sir! it's how to get hold of Attwater! And we daren't
even go ashore; he would shoot us in the boat like dogs."

"Are you particular about having him dead or alive?" asked Huish.

"I want to see him dead," said the captain.

"Ah, well!" said Huish, "then I believe I'll do a bit of breakfast."

And he turned into the house.

The captain doggedly followed him.

"What's this?" he asked. "What's your idea, anyway?"

"O, you let me alone, will you?" said Huish, opening a bottle of champagne. "You'll 'ear my
idea soon enough. Wyte till I pour some cham on my 'ot coppers." He drank a glass off, and
affected to listen. "'Ark!" said he, "'ear it fizz. Like 'am frying, I declyre. 'Ave a glass,
do, and look sociable."

"No!" said the captain, with emphasis; "no, I will not! there's business."

"You p'ys your money and you tykes your choice, my little man," returned Huish. "Seems rather
a shyme to me to spoil your breakfast for wot's really ancient 'istory."

He finished three parts of a bottle of champagne, and nibbled a corner of biscuit, with extreme
deliberation; the captain sitting opposite and champing the bit like an impatient horse. Then
Huish leaned his arms on the table and looked Davis in the face.

"W'en you're ready!" said he.

"Well, now, what's your idea?" said Davis, with a sigh.

"Fair play!" said Huish. "What's yours?"

"The trouble is that I've got none," replied Davis; and wandered for some time in aimless discussion
of the difficulties of their path, and useless explanations of his own fiasco.

"About done?" said Huish.

"I'll dry up right here," replied Davis.

"Well, then," said Huish, "you give me your 'and across the table, and say, 'Gawd strike me
dead if I don't back you up.'"

His voice was hardly raised, yet it thrilled the hearer. His face seemed the epitome of cunning,
and the captain recoiled from it as from a blow.

"What for?" said he.

"Luck," said Huish. "Substantial guarantee demanded."

And he continued to hold out his hand.

"I don't see the good of any such tomfoolery," said the other.

"I do, though," returned Huish. "Gimme your 'and and say the words; then you'll 'ear my view
of it. Don't, and you don't."

The captain went through the required form, breathing short, and gazing on the clerk with anguish.
What to fear he knew not, yet he feared slavishly what was to fall from the pale lips.

"Now, if you'll excuse me 'alf a second," said Huish, "I'll go and fetch the byby."

"The baby?" said Davis. "What's that?"

"Fragile. With care. This side up," replied the clerk with a wink, as he disappeared.

He returned, smiling to himself, and carrying in his hand a silk handkerchief. The long stupid
wrinkles ran up Davis's brow as he saw it. What should it contain? He could think of nothing
more recondite than a revolver.

Huish resumed his seat.

"Now," said he, "are you man enough to take charge of 'Errick and the niggers? Because I'll
take care of Hattwater."

"How?" cried Davis. "You can't!"

"Tut, tut!" said the clerk. "You gimme time. Wot's the first point? The first point is that
we can't get ashore, and I'll make you a present of that for a 'ard one. But 'ow about a flag
of truce? Would that do the trick, d'ye think? or would Attwater simply blyze aw'y at us in
the bloomin' boat like dawgs?"

"No," said Davis, "I don't believe he would."

"No more do I," said Huish; "I don't believe he would either; and I'm sure I 'ope he won't!
So then you can call us ashore. Next point is to get near the managin' direction. And for that
I'm going to 'ave you write a letter, in w'ich you s'y you're ashymed to meet his eye, and
that the bearer, Mr. J. L. 'Uish, is empowered to represent you. Armed with w'ich seemin'ly
simple expedient, Mr. J. L. 'Uish will proceed to business."

He paused, like one who had finished, but still held Davis with his eye.

"How?" said Davis. "Why?"

"Well, you see, you're big," returned Huish; "'e knows you 'ave a gun in your pocket, and anybody
can see with 'alf an eye that you ain't the man to 'esitate about usin' it. So it's no go with
you, and never was; you're out of the runnin', Dyvis. But he won't be afryde of me, I'm such
a little 'un! I'm unarmed--no kid about that--and I'll hold my 'ands up right enough." He paused.
"If I can manage to sneak up nearer to him as we talk," he resumed, "you look out and back
me up smart. If I don't, we go aw'y again, and nothink to 'urt. See?"

The captain's face was contorted by the frenzied effort to comprehend.

"No, I don't see," he cried; "I can't see. What do you mean?"

"I mean to do for the beast!" cried Huish, in a burst of venomous triumph. "I'll bring the
'ulkin' bully to grass. He's 'ad his larks out of me; I'm goin' to 'ave my lark out of 'im,
and a good lark too!"

"What is it?" said the captain, almost in a whisper.

"Sure you want to know?" asked Huish.

Davis rose and took a turn in the house.

"Yes, I want to know," he said at last with an effort.

"W'en your back's at the wall, you do the best you can, don't you?" began the clerk. "I s'y
that, because I 'appen to know there's a prejudice against it; it's considered vulgar, awf'ly
vulgar." He unrolled the handkerchief and showed a four-ounce jar. "This 'ere's vitriol, this
is," said he.

The captain stared upon him with a whitening face.

"This is the stuff!" he pursued, holding it up. "This'll burn to the bone; you'll see it smoke
upon 'im like 'ell-fire! One drop upon 'is bloomin' heyesight, and I'll trouble you for Attwater!"

"No, no, by God!" exclaimed the captain.

"Now, see 'ere, ducky," said Huish, "this is my bean-feast, I believe? I'm goin' up to that
man single-'anded, I am. 'E's about seven foot high, and I'm five foot one. 'E's a rifle in
his 'and, 'e's on the look-out, 'e wasn't born yesterday. This is Dyvid and Goliar, I tell
you! If I'd ast you to walk up and face the music I could understand. But I don't. I on'y ast
you to stand by and spifflicate the niggers. It'll all come in quite natural; you'll see, else!
Fust thing, you know, you'll see him running round and 'owling like a good 'un...."

"Don't!" said Davis. "Don't talk of it!"

"Well, you are a juggins!" exclaimed Huish. "What did you want? You wanted to kill him, and
tried to last night. You wanted to kill the 'ole lot of them, and tried to, and 'ere I show
you 'ow; and because there's some medicine in a bottle you kick up this fuss!"

"I suppose that's so," said Davis. "It don't seem someways reasonable, only there it is."

"It's the happlication of science, I suppose?" sneered Huish.

"I don't know what it is," cried Davis, pacing the floor; "it's there! I draw the line at it.
I can't put a finger to no such piggishness. It's too damned hateful!"

"And I suppose it's all your fancy pynted it," said Huish, "w'en you take a pistol and a bit
o' lead, and copse a man's brains all over him? No accountin' for tystes."

"I'm not denying it," said Davis; "it's something here, inside of me. It's foolishness; I daresay
it's dam foolishness. I don't argue; I just draw the line. Isn't there no other way?"

"Look for yourself," said Huish. "I ain't wedded to this, if you think I am; I ain't ambitious;
I don't make a point of playin' the lead; I offer to, that's all, and if you can't show me
better, by Gawd, I'm goin' to!"

"Then the risk!" cried Davis.

"If you ast me straight, I should say it was a case of seven to one, and no takers," said Huish.
"But that's my look-out, ducky, and I'm gyme. Look at me, Dyvis, there ain't any shilly-shally
about me. I'm gyme, that's wot I am: gyme all through."

The captain looked at him. Huish sat there preening his sinister vanity, glorying in his precedency
in evil; and the villainous courage and readiness of the creature shone out of him like a candle
from a lantern. Dismay and a kind of respect seized hold on Davis in his own despite. Until
that moment he had seen the clerk always hanging back, always listless, uninterested, and openly
grumbling at a word of anything to do; and now, by the touch of an enchanter's wand, he beheld
him sitting girt and resolved, and his face radiant. He had raised the devil, he thought; and
asked who was to control him, and his spirits quailed.

"Look as long as you like," Huish was going on. "You don't see any green in my eye! I ain't
afryde of Attwater, I ain't afryde of you, and I ain't afryde of words. You want to kill people,
that's wot you want; but you want to do it in kid gloves, and it can't be done that w'y. Murder
ain't genteel, it ain't easy, it ain't safe, and it tykes a man to do it. 'Ere's the man."

"Huish!" began the captain with energy; and then stopped, and remained staring at him with
corrugated brows.

"Well, hout with it!" said Huish. "'Ave you anythink else to put up? Is there any other chanst
to try?"

The captain held his peace.

"There you are then!" said Huish, with a shrug.

Davis fell again to his pacing.

"O, you may do sentry-go till you're blue in the mug, you won't find anythink else," said Huish.

There was a little silence; the captain, like a man launched on a swing, flying dizzily among
extremes of conjecture and refusal.

"But see," he said, suddenly pausing. "Can you? Can the thing be done? It--it can't be easy."

"If I get within twenty foot of 'im it'll be done; so you look out," said Huish, and his tone
of certainty was absolute.

"How can you know that?" broke from the captain in a choked cry. "You beast, I believe you've
done it before!"

"O, that's private affyres," returned Huish; "I ain't a talking man."

A shock of repulsion struck and shook the captain; a scream rose almost to his lips; had he
uttered it, he might have cast himself at the same moment on the body of Huish, might have
picked him up, and flung him down, and wiped the cabin with him, in a frenzy of cruelty that
seemed half moral. But the moment passed; and the abortive crisis left the man weaker. The
stakes were so high--the pearls on the one hand--starvation and shame on the other. Ten years
of pearls! the imagination of Davis translated them into a new, glorified existence for himself
and his family. The seat of this new life must be in London; there were deadly reasons against
Portland, Maine; and the pictures that came to him were of English manners. He saw his boys
marching in the procession of a school, with gowns on, an usher marshalling them and reading
as he walked in a great book. He was installed in a villa, semi-detached; the name, "Rosemore,"
on the gateposts. In a chair on the gravel walk he seemed to sit smoking a cigar, a blue ribbon
in his buttonhole, victor over himself and circumstances and the malignity of bankers. He saw
the parlour, with red curtains, and shells on the mantelpiece--and, with the fine inconsistency
of visions, mixed a grog at the mahogany table ere he turned in. With that the Farallone gave
one of the aimless and nameless movements which (even in an anchored ship, and even in the
most profound calm) remind one of the mobility of fluids; and he was back again under the cover
of the house, the fierce daylight besieging it all round and glaring in the chinks, and the
clerk in a rather airy attitude, awaiting his decision.

He began to walk again. He aspired after the realisation of these dreams, like a horse nickering
for water; the lust of them burned in his inside. And the only obstacle was Attwater, who had
insulted him from the first. He gave Herrick a full share of the pearls, he insisted on it;
Huish opposed him, and he trod the opposition down; and praised himself exceedingly. He was
not going to use vitriol himself; was he Huish's keeper? It was a pity he had asked, but after
all! ... he saw the boys again in the school procession, with the gowns he had thought to be
so "tony" long since.... And at the same time the incomparable shame of the last evening blazed
up in his mind.

"Have it your own way!" he said hoarsely.

"O, I knew you would walk up," said Huish. "Now for the letter. There's paper, pens, and ink.
Sit down and I'll dictyte."

The captain took a seat and the pen, looked a while helplessly at the paper, then at Huish.
The swing had gone the other way; there was a blur upon his eyes. "It's a dreadful business,"
he said, with a strong twitch of his shoulders.

"It's rather a start, no doubt," said Huish. "Tyke a dip of ink. That's it. William John Hattwater,
Esq. Sir:" he dictated.

"How do you know his name is William John?" asked Davis.

"Saw it on a packing-case," said Huish. "Got that?"

"No," said Davis. "But there's another thing. What are we to write?"

"O my golly!" cried the exasperated Huish. "Wot kind of man do you call yourself? I'm goin'
to tell you wot to write; that's my pitch; if you'll just be so bloomin' condescendin' as to
write it down! William John Attwater, Esq., Sir:" he reiterated. And, the captain at last beginning
half mechanically to move his pen, the dictation proceeded: "It is with feelings of shyme and
'artfelt contrition that I approach you after the yumiliatin' events of last night. Our Mr.
'Errick has left the ship, and will have doubtless communicated to you the nature of our 'opes.
Needless to s'y, these are no longer possible: Fate 'as declyred against us, and we bow the
'ead. Well awyre as I am of the just suspicions with w'ich I am regarded, I do not venture
to solicit the fyvour of an interview for myself, but in order to put an end to a situytion
w'ich must be equally pyneful to all, I 'ave deputed my friend and partner, Mr. J. L. Huish,
to l'y before you my proposals, and w'ich by their moderytion, will, I trust, be found to merit
your attention. Mr. J. L. Huish is entirely unarmed, I swear to Gawd! and will 'old 'is 'ands
over 'is 'ead from the moment he begins to approach you. I am your fytheful servant, John Dyvis."

Huish read the letter with the innocent joy of amateurs, chuckled gustfully to himself, and
reopened it more than once after it was folded, to repeat the pleasure, Davis meanwhile sitting
inert and heavily frowning.

Of a sudden he rose; he seemed all abroad. "No!" he cried. "No! it can't be! It's too much;
it's damnation. God would never forgive it."

"Well, and 'oo wants Him to?" returned Huish, shrill with fury. "You were damned years ago
for the Sea Rynger, and said so yourself. Well then, be damned for something else, and 'old
your tongue."

The captain looked at him mistily. "No," he pleaded, "no, old man! don't do it."

"'Ere now," said Huish, "I'll give you my ultimytum. Go or st'y w'ere you are; I don't mind;
I'm goin' to see that man and chuck this vitriol in his eyes. If you st'y I'll go alone; the
niggers will likely knock me on the 'ead, and a fat lot you'll be the better! But there's one
thing sure: I'll 'ear no more of your moonin' mullygrubbin' rot, and tyke it stryte."

The captain took it with a blink and a gulp. Memory, with phantom voices, repeated in his ears
something similar, something he had once said to Herrick--years ago it seemed.

"Now, gimme over your pistol," said Huish. "I 'ave to see all clear. Six shots, and mind you
don't wyste them."

The captain, like a man in a nightmare, laid down his revolver on the table, and Huish wiped
the cartridges and oiled the works.

It was close on noon, there was no breath of wind, and the heat was scarce bearable, when the
two men came on deck, had the boat manned, and passed down, one after another, into the stern-sheets.
A white shirt at the end of an oar served as flag of truce; and the men, by direction, and
to give it the better chance to be observed, pulled with extreme slowness. The isle shook before
them like a place incandescent; on the face of the lagoon blinding copper suns, no bigger than
sixpences, danced and stabbed them in the eyeballs: there went up from sand and sea, and even
from the boat, a glare of scathing brightness; and as they could only peer abroad from between
closed lashes, the excess of light seemed to be changed into a sinister darkness, comparable
to that of a thundercloud before it bursts.

The captain had come upon this errand for any one of a dozen reasons, the last of which was
desire for its success. Superstition rules all men; semi-ignorant and gross natures, like that
of Davis, it rules utterly. For murder he had been prepared; but this horror of the medicine
in the bottle went beyond him, and he seemed to himself to be parting the last strands that
united him to God. The boat carried him on to reprobation, to damnation; and he suffered himself
to be carried passively consenting, silently bidding farewell to his better self and his hopes.

Huish sat by his side in towering spirits that were not wholly genuine. Perhaps as brave a
man as ever lived, brave as a weasel, he must still reassure himself with the tones of his
own voice; he must play his part to exaggeration, he must out-Herod Herod, insult all that
was respectable, and brave all that was formidable, in a kind of desperate wager with himself.

"Golly, but it's 'ot!" said he. "Cruel 'ot, I call it. Nice d'y to get your gruel in! I s'y,
you know, it must feel awf'ly peculiar to get bowled over on a d'y like this. I'd rather 'ave
it on a cowld and frosty morning, wouldn't you? (Singing) ''Ere we go round the mulberry bush
on a cowld and frosty mornin'.' (Spoken) Give you my word, I 'aven't thought o' that in ten
year; used to sing it at a hinfant school in 'Ackney, 'Ackney Wick it was. (Singing) 'This
is the way the tyler does, the tyler does.' (Spoken) Bloomin' 'umbug.--'Ow are you off now,
for the notion of a future styte? Do you cotton to the tea-fight views, or the old red-'ot
bogey business?"

"O, dry up!" said the captain.

"No, but I want to know," said Huish. "It's within the sp'ere of practical politics for you
and me, my boy; we may both be bowled over, one up, t'other down, within the next ten minutes.
It would be rather a lark, now, if you only skipped across, came up smilin' t'other side, and
a hangel met you with a B. and S. under his wing. 'Ullo, you'd s'y: come, I tyke this kind."

The captain groaned. While Huish was thus airing and exercising his bravado, the man at his
side was actually engaged in prayer. Prayer, what for? God knows. But out of his inconsistent,
illogical, and agitated spirit, a stream of supplication was poured forth, inarticulate as
himself, earnest as death and judgment.

"Thou Gawd seest me!" continued Huish. "I remember I had that written in my Bible. I remember
the Bible too, all about Abinadab and parties.--Well, Gawd!" apostrophising the meridian, "you're
goin' to see a rum start presently, I promise you that!"

The captain bounded.

"I'll have no blasphemy!" he cried, "no blasphemy in my boat."

"All right, cap'," said Huish. "Anythink to oblige. Any other topic you would like to sudgest,
the ryne-gyge, the lightnin'-rod, Shykespeare, or the musical glasses? 'Ere's conversation
on tap. Put a penny in the slot, and ... 'ullo! 'ere they are!" he cried. "Now or never! is
'e goin' to shoot?"

And the little man straightened himself into an alert and dashing attitude, and looked steadily
at the enemy.

But the captain rose half up in the boat with eyes protruding.

"What's that?" he cried.

"Wot's wot?" said Huish.

"Those--blamed things," said the captain.

And indeed it was something strange. Herrick and Attwater, both armed with Winchesters, had
appeared out of the grove behind the figure-head; and to either hand of them, the sun glistened
upon two metallic objects, locomotory like men, and occupying in the economy of these creatures
the places of heads--only the heads were faceless. To Davis, between wind and water, his mythology
appeared to have come alive and Tophet to be vomiting demons. But Huish was not mystified a moment.

"Divers' 'elmets, you ninny. Can't you see?" he said.

"So they are," said Davis, with a gasp. "And why? O, I see, it's for armour."

"Wot did I tell you?" said Huish. "Dyvid and Goliar all the w'y and back."

The two natives (for they it was that were equipped in this unusual panoply of war) spread
out to right and left, and at last lay down in the shade, on the extreme flank of the position.
Even now that the mystery was explained, Davis was hatefully preoccupied, stared at the flame
on their crests, and forgot, and then remembered with a smile, the explanation.

Attwater withdrew again into the grove, and Herrick, with his gun under his arm, came down
the pier alone.

About halfway down he halted and hailed the boat.

"What do you want?" he cried.

"I'll tell that to Mr. Attwater," replied Huish, stepping briskly on the ladder. "I don't tell
it to you, because you played the trucklin' sneak. Here's a letter for him: tyke it, and give
it, and be 'anged to you!"

"Davis, is this all right?" said Herrick.

Davis raised his chin, glanced swiftly at Herrick and away again, and held his peace. The glance
was charged with some deep emotion, but whether of hatred or of fear, it was beyond Herrick
to divine.

"Well," he said, "I'll give the letter." He drew a score with his foot on the boards of the
gangway. "Till I bring the answer, don't move a step past this."

And he returned to where Attwater leaned against a tree, and gave him the letter. Attwater
glanced it through.

"What does that mean?" he asked, passing it to Herrick. "Treachery?"

"O, I suppose so!" said Herrick.

"Well, tell him to come on," said Attwater. "One isn't a fatalist for nothing. Tell him to
come on and to look out."

Herrick returned to the figure-head. Half-way down the pier the clerk was waiting, with Davis
by his side.

"You are to come along, Huish," said Herrick. "He bids you to look out--no tricks."

Huish walked briskly up the pier, and paused face to face with the young man.

"W'ere is 'e?" said he, and to Herrick's surprise, the low-bred, insignificant face before
him flushed suddenly crimson and went white again.

"Right forward," said Herrick, pointing. "Now, your hands above your head."

The clerk turned away from him and towards the figure-head, as though he were about to address
to it his devotions; he was seen to heave a deep breath; and raised his arms. In common with
many men of his unhappy physical endowments, Huish's hands were disproportionately long and
broad, and the palms in particular enormous; a four-ounce jar was nothing in that capacious
fist. The next moment he was plodding steadily forward on his mission.

Herrick at first followed. Then a noise in his rear startled him, and he turned about to find
Davis already advanced as far as the figure-head. He came, crouching and open-mouthed, as the
mesmerised may follow the mesmeriser; all human considerations, and even the care of his own
life, swallowed up in one abominable and burning curiosity.

"Halt!" cried Herrick, covering him with his rifle. "Davis, what are you doing, man? You are
not to come."

Davis instinctively paused, and regarded him with a dreadful vacancy of eye.

"Put your back to that figure-head--do you hear me?--and stand fast!" said Herrick.

The captain fetched a breath, stepped back against the figure-head, and instantly redirected
his glances after Huish.

There was a hollow place of the sand in that part, and, as it were, a glade among the coco-palms
in which the direct noonday sun blazed intolerably. At the far end, in the shadow, the tall
figure of Attwater was to be seen leaning on a tree; towards him, with his hands over his head,
and his steps smothered in the sand, the clerk painfully waded. The surrounding glare threw
out and exaggerated the man's smallness; it seemed no less perilous an enterprise, this that
he was gone upon, than for a whelp to besiege a citadel.

"There, Mr. Whish. That will do," cried Attwater. "From that distance, and keeping your hands
up, like a good boy, you can very well put me in possession of the skipper's views."

The interval betwixt them was perhaps forty feet; and Huish measured it with his eye, and breathed
a curse. He was already distressed with labouring in the loose sand, and his arms ached bitterly
from their unnatural position. In the palm of his right hand the jar was ready; and his heart
thrilled, and his voice choked, as he began to speak.

"Mr. Hattwater," said he, "I don't know if ever you 'ad a mother...."

"I can set your mind at rest: I had," returned Attwater; "and henceforth, if I may venture
to suggest it, her name need not recur in our communications. I should perhaps tell you that
I am not amenable to the pathetic."

"I am sorry, sir, if I 'ave seemed to tresparse on your private feelin's," said the clerk,
cringing and stealing a step. "At least, sir, you will never pe'suade me that you are not a
perfec' gentleman; I know a gentleman when I see him; and as such, I 'ave no 'esitation in
throwin' myself on your merciful consideration. It is 'ard lines, no doubt; it's 'ard lines
to have to hown yourself beat; it's 'ard lines to 'ave to come and beg to you for charity."

"When, if things had only gone right, the whole place was as good as your own?" suggested Attwater.
"I can understand the feeling."

"You are judging me, Mr. Attwater," said the clerk, "and God knows how unjustly! Thou Gawd
seest me, was the tex' I 'ad in my Bible, w'ich my father wrote it in with 'is own 'and upon
the fly-leaft."

"I am sorry I have to beg your pardon once more," said Attwater; "but, do you know, you seem
to me to be a trifle nearer, which is entirely outside of our bargain. And I would venture
to suggest that you take one--two--three--steps back; and stay there."

The devil, at this staggering disappointment, looked out of Huish's face, and Attwater was
swift to suspect. He frowned, he stared on the little man, and considered. Why should he be
creeping nearer? The next moment his gun was at his shoulder.

"Kindly oblige me by opening your hands. Open your hands wide--let me see the fingers spread,
you dog--throw down that thing you're holding!" he roared, his rage and certitude increasing
together.

And then, at almost the same moment, the indomitable Huish decided to throw, and Attwater pulled
a trigger. There was scarce the difference of a second between the two resolves, but it was
in favour of the man with the rifle; and the jar had not yet left the clerk's hand, before
the ball shattered both. For the twinkling of an eye the wretch was in hell's agonies, bathed
in liquid flames, a screaming bedlamite; and then a second and more merciful bullet stretched
him dead.

The whole thing was come and gone in a breath. Before Herrick could turn about, before Davis
could complete his cry of horror, the clerk lay in the sand, sprawling and convulsed.

Attwater ran to the body; he stooped and viewed it; he put his finger in the vitriol, and his
face whitened and hardened with anger.

Davis had not yet moved; he stood astonished, with his back to the figure-head, his hands clutching
it behind him, his body inclined forward from the waist.

Attwater turned deliberately and covered him with his rifle.

"Davis," he cried, in a voice like a trumpet, "I give you sixty seconds to make your peace
with God!"

Davis looked, and his mind awoke. He did not dream of self-defence, he did not reach for his
pistol. He drew himself up instead to face death, with a quivering nostril.

"I guess I'll not trouble the Old Man," he said; "considering the job I was on, I guess it's
better business to just shut my face."

Attwater fired; there came a spasmodic movement of the victim, and immediately above the middle
of his forehead a black hole marred the whiteness of the figure-head. A dreadful pause; then
again the report, and the solid sound and jar of the bullet in the wood; and this time the
captain had felt the wind of it along his cheek. A third shot, and he was bleeding from one
ear; and along the levelled rifle Attwater smiled like a red Indian.

The cruel game of which he was the puppet was now clear to Davis; three times he had drunk
of death, and he must look to drink of it seven times more before he was despatched. He held
up his hand.

"Steady!" he cried; "I'll take your sixty seconds."

"Good!" said Attwater.

The captain shut his eyes tight like a child: he held his hands up at last with a tragic and
ridiculous gesture.

"My God, for Christ's sake, look after my two kids," he said; and then, after a pause and a
falter, "for Christ's sake. Amen."

And he opened his eyes and looked down the rifle with a quivering mouth.

"But don't keep fooling me long!" he pleaded.

"That's all your prayer?" asked Attwater, with a singular ring in his voice.

"Guess so," said Davis.

"So?" said Attwater, resting the butt of his rifle on the ground, "is that done? Is your peace
made with Heaven? Because it is with me. Go, and sin no more, sinful father. And remember that
whatever you do to others, God shall visit it again a thousandfold upon your innocents."

The wretched Davis came staggering forward from his place against the figure-head, fell upon
his knees, and waved his hands, and fainted.

When he came to himself again, his head was on Attwater's arm, and close by stood one of the
men in diver's helmets, holding a bucket of water, from which his late executioner now laved
his face. The memory of that dreadful passage returned upon him in a clap; again he saw Huish
lying dead, again he seemed to himself to totter on the brink of an unplumbed eternity. With
trembling hands he seized hold of the man whom he had come to slay; and his voice broke from
him like that of a child among the nightmares of fever: "O! isn't there no mercy? O! what must
I do to be saved?"

"Ah!" thought Attwater, "here is the true penitent."

CHAPTER XII

A TAIL-PIECE

On a very bright, hot, lusty, strongly-blowing noon, a fortnight after the events recorded,
and a month since the curtain rose upon this episode, a man might have been spied praying on
the sand by the lagoon beach. A point of palm-trees isolated him from the settlement; and from
the place where he knelt, the only work of man's hand that interrupted the expanse was the
schooner Farallone, her berth quite changed, and rocking at anchor some two miles to windward
in the midst of the lagoon. The noise of the Trade ran very boisterous in all parts of the
island; the nearer palm-trees crashed and whistled in the gusts, those farther off contributed
a humming bass like the roar of cities; and yet, to any man less absorbed, there must have
risen at times over this turmoil of the winds the sharper note of the human voice from the
settlement. There all was activity. Attwater, stripped to his trousers, and lending a strong
hand of help, was directing and encouraging five Kanakas; from his lively voice, and their
more lively efforts, it was to be gathered that some sudden and joyful emergency had set them
in this bustle; and the Union Jack floated once more on its staff. But the suppliant on the
beach, unconscious of their voices, prayed on with instancy and fervour, and the sound of his
voice rose and fell again, and his countenance brightened and was deformed with changing moods
of piety and terror.

Before his closed eyes the skiff had been for some time tacking towards the distant and deserted
Farallone; and presently the figure of Herrick might have been observed to board her, to pass
for a while into the house, thence forward to the forecastle, and at last to plunge into the
main hatch. In all these quarters his visit was followed by a coil of smoke; and he had scarce
entered his boat again and shoved off, before flames broke forth upon the schooner. They burned
gaily; kerosene had not been spared, and the bellows of the Trade incited the conflagration.
About half-way on the return voyage, when Herrick looked back, he beheld the Farallone wrapped
to the topmasts in leaping arms of fire, and the voluminous smoke pursuing him along the face
of the lagoon. In one hour's time, he computed, the waters would have closed over the stolen ship.

It so chanced that, as his boat flew before the wind with much vivacity, and his eyes were
continually busy in the wake, measuring the progress of the flames, he found himself embayed
to the northward of the point of palms, and here became aware at the same time of the figure
of Davis immersed in his devotion. An exclamation, part of annoyance, part of amusement, broke
from him: and he touched the helm and ran the prow upon the beach not twenty feet from the
unconscious devotee. Taking the painter in his hand, he landed, and drew near, and stood over
him. And still the voluble and incoherent stream of prayer continued unabated. It was not possible
for him to overhear the suppliant's petitions, which he listened to some while in a very mingled
mood of humour and pity: and it was only when his own name began to occur and to be conjoined
with epithets, that he at last laid his hand on the captain's shoulder.

"Sorry to interrupt the exercise," said he; "but I want you to look at the Farallone."

The captain scrambled to his feet, and stood gasping and staring. "Mr. Herrick, don't startle
a man like that!" he said. "I don't seem someways rightly myself since...." He broke off. "What
did you say anyway? O, the Farallone," and he looked languidly out.

"Yes," said Herrick. "There she burns! and you may guess from that what the news is."

"The Trinity Hall, I guess," said the captain.

"The same," said Herrick; "sighted half an hour ago, and coming up hand over fist."

"Well, it don't amount to a hill of beans," said the captain, with a sigh.

"O, come, that's rank ingratitude!" cries Herrick.

"Well," replied the captain meditatively, "you mayn't just see the way that I view it in, but
I'd 'most rather stay here upon this island. I found peace here, peace in believing. Yes, I
guess this island is about good enough for John Davis."

"I never heard such nonsense!" cried Herrick. "What! with all turning out in your favour the
way it does, the Farallone wiped out, the crew disposed of, a sure thing for your wife and
family, and you, yourself, Attwater's spoiled darling and pet penitent!"

"Now, Mr. Herrick, don't say that," said the captain gently; "when you know he don't make no
difference between us. But, O! why not be one of us? why not come to Jesus right away, and
let's meet in yon beautiful land? That's just the one thing wanted; just say, 'Lord, I believe,
help Thou mine unbelief!' and He'll fold you in His arms. You see, I know! I been a sinner myself!"

WEIR OF HERMISTON

A FRAGMENT

TO MY WIFE

  I saw rain falling and the rainbow drawn
  On Lammermuir. Hearkening I heard again
  In my precipitous city beaten bells
  Winnow the keen sea wind. And here afar,
  Intent on my own race and place, I wrote.
    Take thou the writing: thine it is. For who
  Burnished the sword, blew on the drowsy coal,
  Held still the target higher, chary of praise
  And prodigal of counsel--who but thou?
  So now, in the end, if this the least be good,
  If any deed be done, if any fire
  Burn in the imperfect page, the praise be thine.

     R. L. S.

WEIR OF HERMISTON

INTRODUCTORY

In the wild end of a moorland parish, far out of the sight of any house, there stands a cairn
among the heather, and a little by east of it, in the going down of the braeside, a monument
with some verses half defaced. It was here that Claverhouse shot with his own hand the Praying
Weaver of Balweary, and the chisel of Old Mortality has clinked on that lonely gravestone.
Public and domestic history have thus marked with a bloody finger this hollow among the hills;
and since the Cameronian gave his life there, two hundred years ago, in a glorious folly, and
without comprehension or regret, the silence of the moss has been broken once again by the
report of firearms and the cry of the dying.

The Deil's Hags was the old name. But the place is now called Francie's Cairn. For a while
it was told that Francie walked. Aggie Hogg met him in the gloaming by the cairnside, and he
spoke to her, with chattering teeth, so that his words were lost. He pursued Rob Todd (if any
one could have believed Robbie) for the space of half a mile with pitiful entreaties. But the
age is one of incredulity; these superstitious decorations speedily fell off; and the facts
of the story itself, like the bones of a giant buried there and half dug up, survived, naked
and imperfect, in the memory of the scattered neighbours. To this day, of winter nights, when
the sleet is on the window and the cattle are quiet in the byre, there will be told again,
amid the silence of the young and the additions and corrections of the old, the tale of the
Justice-Clerk and of his son, young Hermiston, that vanished from men's knowledge; of the two
Kirsties and the four Black Brothers of the Cauldstaneslap; and of Frank Innes, "the young
fool advocate," that came into these moorland parts to find his destiny.

CHAPTER I

LIFE AND DEATH OF MRS. WEIR

The Lord Justice-Clerk was a stranger in that part of the country; but his lady wife was known
there from a child, as her race had been before her. The old "riding Rutherfords of Hermiston,"
of whom she was the last descendant, had been famous men of yore, ill neighbours, ill subjects,
and ill husbands to their wives, though not their properties. Tales of them were rife for twenty
miles about; and their name was even printed in the page of our Scots histories, not always
to their credit. One bit the dust at Flodden; one was hanged at his peel door by James the
Fifth; another fell dead in a carouse with Tom Dalyell; while a fourth (and that was Jean's
own father) died presiding at a Hell-Fire Club, of which he was the founder. There were many
heads shaken in Crossmichael at that judgment; the more so as the man had a villainous reputation
among high and low, and both with the godly and the worldly. At that very hour of his demise
he had ten going pleas before the Session, eight of them oppressive. And the same doom extended
even to his agents; his grieve, that had been his right hand in many a left-hand business,
being cast from his horse one night and drowned in a peat-hag on the Kye-skairs; and his very
doer (although lawyers have long spoons) surviving him not long, and dying on a sudden in a
bloody flux.

In all these generations, while a male Rutherford was in the saddle with his lads, or brawling
in a change-house, there would be always a white-faced wife immured at home in the old peel
or the later mansion-house. It seemed this succession of martyrs bided long, but took their
vengeance in the end, and that was in the person of the last descendant, Jean. She bore the
name of the Rutherfords, but she was the daughter of their trembling wives. At the first she
was not wholly without charm. Neighbours recalled in her, as a child, a strain of elfin wilfulness,
gentle little mutinies, sad little gaieties, even a morning gleam of beauty that was not to
be fulfilled. She withered in the growing, and (whether it was the sins of her sires or the
sorrows of her mothers) came to her maturity depressed, and, as it were, defaced; no blood
of life in her, no grasp or gaiety; pious, anxious, tender, tearful, and incompetent.

It was a wonder to many that she had married--seeming so wholly of the stuff that makes old
maids. But chance cast her in the path of Adam Weir, then the new Lord Advocate, a recognised,
risen man, the conqueror of many obstacles, and thus late in the day beginning to think upon
a wife. He was one who looked rather to obedience than beauty, yet it would seem he was struck
with her at the first look. "Wha's she?" he said, turning to his host; and, when he had been
told, "Ay," says he, "she looks menseful. She minds me----"; and then, after a pause (which
some have been daring enough to set down to sentimental recollections), "Is she releegious?"
he asked, and was shortly after, at his own request, presented. The acquaintance, which it
seems profane to call a courtship, was pursued with Mr. Weir's accustomed industry, and was
long a legend, or rather a source of legends, in the Parliament House. He was described coming,
rosy with much port, into the drawing-room, walking direct up to the lady, and assailing her
with pleasantries to which the embarrassed fair one responded, in what seemed a kind of agony,
"Eh, Mr. Weir!" or "O, Mr. Weir!" or "Keep me, Mr. Weir!" On the very eve of their engagement,
it was related that one had drawn near to the tender couple, and had overheard the lady cry
out, with the tones of one who talked for the sake of talking, "Keep me, Mr. Weir, and what
became of him?" and the profound accents of the suitor reply, "Haangit, mem, haangit." The
motives upon either side were much debated. Mr. Weir must have supposed his bride to be somewhat
suitable; perhaps he belonged to that class of men who think a weak head the ornament of women--an
opinion invariably punished in this life. Her descent and her estate were beyond question.
Her wayfaring ancestors and her litigious father had done well by Jean. There was ready money
and there were broad acres, ready to fall wholly to the husband, to lend dignity to his descendants,
and to himself a title, when he should be called upon the Bench. On the side of Jean, there
was perhaps some fascination of curiosity as to this unknown male animal that approached her
with the roughness of a ploughman and the aplomb of an advocate. Being so trenchantly opposed
to all she knew, loved, or understood, he may well have seemed to her the extreme, if scarcely
the ideal, of his sex. And besides, he was an ill man to refuse. A little over forty at the
period of his marriage, he looked already older, and to the force of manhood added the senatorial
dignity of years; it was, perhaps, with an unreverend awe, but he was awful. The Bench, the
Bar, and the most experienced and reluctant witness, bowed to his authority--and why not Jeannie
Rutherford?

The heresy about foolish women is always punished, I have said, and Lord Hermiston began to
pay the penalty at once. His house in George Square was wretchedly ill-guided; nothing answerable
to the expense of maintenance but the cellar, which was his own private care. When things went
wrong at dinner, as they continually did, my lord would look up the table at his wife: "I think
these broth would be better to sweem in than to sup." Or else to the butler: "Here, M'Killop,
awa' wi' this Raadical gigot--tak' it to the French, man, and bring me some puddocks! It seems
rather a sore kind of business that I should be all day in Court haanging Radicals, and get
nawthing to my denner." Of course this was but a manner of speaking, and he had never hanged
a man for being a Radical in his life; the law, of which he was the faithful minister, directing
otherwise. And of course these growls were in the nature of pleasantry, but it was of a recondite
sort; and uttered as they were in his resounding voice, and commented on by that expression
which they called in the Parliament House "Hermiston's hanging face"--they struck mere dismay
into the wife. She sat before him speechless and fluttering; at each dish, as at a fresh ordeal,
her eye hovered toward my lord's countenance and fell again; if he but ate in silence, unspeakable
relief was her portion; if there were complaint, the world was darkened. She would seek out
the cook, who was always her sister in the Lord. "O, my dear, this is the most dreidful thing
that my lord can never be contented in his own house!" she would begin; and weep and pray with
the cook; and then the cook would pray with Mrs. Weir; and the next day's meal would never
be a penny the better--and the next cook (when she came) would be worse, if anything, but just
as pious. It was often wondered that Lord Hermiston bore it as he did; indeed, he was a stoical
old voluptuary, contented with sound wine and plenty of it. But there were moments when he
overflowed. Perhaps half a dozen times in the history of his married life--"Here! tak' it awa',
and bring me a piece of bread and kebbuck!" he had exclaimed, with an appalling explosion of
his voice and rare gestures. None thought to dispute or to make excuses; the service was arrested;
Mrs. Weir sat at the head of the table whimpering without disguise; and his lordship opposite
munched his bread and cheese in ostentatious disregard. Once only Mrs. Weir had ventured to
appeal. He was passing her chair on his way into the study.

"O, Edom!" she wailed, in a voice tragic with tears, and reaching out to him both hands, in
one of which she held a sopping pocket-handkerchief.

He paused and looked upon her with a face of wrath, into which there stole, as he looked, a
twinkle of humour.

"Noansense!" he said. "You and your noansense! What do I want with a Christian faim'ly? I want
Christian broth! Get me a lass that can plain-boil a potato, if she was a whüre off the streets."
And with these words, which echoed in her tender ears like blasphemy, he had passed on to his
study and shut the door behind him.

Such was the housewifery in George Square. It was better at Hermiston, where Kirstie Elliott,
the sister of a neighbouring bonnet-laird, and an eighteenth cousin of the lady's, bore the
charge of all, and kept a trim house and a good country table. Kirstie was a woman in a thousand,
clean, capable, notable; once a moorland Helen, and still comely as a blood horse and healthy
as the hill wind. High in flesh and voice and colour, she ran the house with her whole intemperate
soul, in a bustle, not without buffets. Scarce more pious than decency in those days required,
she was the cause of many an anxious thought and many a tearful prayer to Mrs. Weir. Housekeeper
and mistress renewed the parts of Martha and Mary; and though with a pricking conscience, Mary
reposed on Martha's strength as on a rock. Even Lord Hermiston held Kirstie in a particular
regard. There were few with whom he unbent so gladly, few whom he favoured with so many pleasantries.
"Kirstie and me maun have our joke," he would declare, in high good-humour, as he buttered
Kirstie's scones, and she waited at table. A man who had no need either of love or of popularity,
a keen reader of men and of events, there was perhaps only one truth for which he was quite
unprepared: he would have been quite unprepared to learn that Kirstie hated him. He thought
maid and master were well matched; hard, handy, healthy, broad Scots folk, without a hair of
nonsense to the pair of them. And the fact was that she made a goddess and an only child of
the effete and tearful lady; and even as she waited at table her hands would sometimes itch
for my lord's ears.

Thus, at least, when the family were at Hermiston, not only my lord, but Mrs. Weir too, enjoyed
a holiday. Free from the dreadful looking-for of the miscarried dinner, she would mind her
seam, read her piety books, and take her walk (which was my lord's orders), sometimes by herself,
sometimes with Archie, the only child of that scarce natural union. The child was her next
bond to life. Her frosted sentiment bloomed again, she breathed deep of life, she let loose
her heart, in that society. The miracle of her motherhood was ever new to her. The sight of
the little man at her skirt intoxicated her with the sense of power, and froze her with the
consciousness of her responsibility. She looked forward, and, seeing him in fancy grow up and
play his diverse part on the world's theatre, caught in her breath and lifted up her courage
with a lively effort. It was only with the child that she forgot herself and was at moments
natural; yet it was only with the child that she had conceived and managed to pursue a scheme
of conduct. Archie was to be a great man and a good; a minister if possible, a saint for certain.
She tried to engage his mind upon her favourite books, Rutherford's "Letters," Scougal's "Grace
Abounding," and the like. It was a common practice of hers (and strange to remember now) that
she would carry the child to the Deil's Hags, sit with him on the Praying Weaver's Stone, and
talk of the Covenanters till their tears ran down. Her view of history was wholly artless,
a design in snow and ink; upon the one side, tender innocents with psalms upon their lips;
upon the other, the persecutors, booted, bloody-minded, flushed with wine: a suffering Christ,
a raging Beelzebub. Persecutor was a word that knocked upon the woman's heart; it was her highest
thought of wickedness, and the mark of it was on her house. Her great-great-grandfather had
drawn the sword against the Lord's anointed on the field of Rullion Green, and breathed his
last (tradition said) in the arms of the detestable Dalyell. Nor could she blind herself to
this, that had they lived in those old days, Hermiston himself would have been numbered alongside
of Bloody Mackenzie and the politic Lauderdale and Rothes, in the band of God's immediate enemies.
The sense of this moved her to the more fervour; she had a voice for that name of persecutor
that thrilled in the child's marrow; and when one day the mob hooted and hissed them all in
my lord's travelling carriage, and cried, "Down with the persecutor! down with Hanging Hermiston!"
and mamma covered her eyes and wept, and papa let down the glass and looked out upon the rabble
with his droll formidable face, bitter and smiling, as they said he sometimes looked when he
gave sentence, Archie was for the moment too much amazed to be alarmed, but he had scarce got
his mother by herself before his shrill voice was raised demanding an explanation: why had
they called papa a persecutor?

"Keep me, my precious!" she exclaimed. "Keep me, my dear! this is poleetical. Ye must never
ask me anything poleetical, Erchie. Your faither is a great man, my dear, and it's no for me
or you to be judging him. It would be telling us all, if we behaved ourselves in our several
stations the way your faither does in his high office; and let me hear no more of any such
disrespectful and undutiful questions! No that you meant to be undutiful, my lamb; your mother
kens that--she kens it well, dearie!" And so slid off to safer topics, and left on the mind
of the child an obscure but ineradicable sense of something wrong.

Mrs. Weir's philosophy of life was summed in one expression--tenderness. In her view of the
universe, which was all lighted up with a glow out of the doors of hell, good people must walk
there in a kind of ecstasy of tenderness. The beasts and plants had no souls; they were here
but for a day, and let their day pass gently! And as for the immortal men, on what black, downward
path were many of them wending, and to what a horror of an immortality! "Are not two sparrows,"
"Whosoever shall smite thee," "God sendeth His rain," "Judge not, that ye be not judged"--these
texts made her body of divinity; she put them on in the morning with her clothes and lay down
to sleep with them at night; they haunted her like a favourite air, they clung about her like
a favourite perfume. Their minister was a marrowy expounder of the law, and my lord sat under
him with relish; but Mrs. Weir respected him from far off; heard him (like the cannon of a
beleaguered city) usefully booming outside on the dogmatic ramparts; and meanwhile, within
and out of shot, dwelt in her private garden which she watered with grateful tears. It seems
strange to say of this colourless and ineffectual woman, but she was a true enthusiast, and
might have made the sunshine and the glory of a cloister. Perhaps none but Archie knew she
could be eloquent; perhaps none but he had seen her--her colour raised, her hands clasped or
quivering--glow with gentle ardour. There is a corner of the policy of Hermiston, where you
come suddenly in view of the summit of Black Fell, sometimes like the mere grass top of a hill,
sometimes (and this is her own expression) like a precious jewel in the heavens. On such days,
upon the sudden view of it, her hand would tighten on the child's fingers, her voice rise like
a song. "I to the hills!" she would repeat. "And O, Erchie, arena these like the hills of Naphtali?"
and her tears would flow.

Upon an impressionable child the effect of this continual and pretty accompaniment to life
was deep. The woman's quietism and piety passed on to his different nature undiminished; but
whereas in her it was a native sentiment, in him it was only an implanted dogma. Nature and
the child's pugnacity at times revolted. A cad from the Potterrow once struck him in the mouth;
he struck back, the pair fought it out in the back stable lane towards the Meadows, and Archie
returned with a considerable decline in the number of his front teeth, and unregenerately boasting
of the losses of the foe. It was a sore day for Mrs. Weir; she wept and prayed over the infant
backslider until my lord was due from Court, and she must resume that air of tremulous composure
with which she always greeted him. The judge was that day in an observant mood, and remarked
upon the absent teeth.

"I am afraid Erchie will have been fechting with some of thae blagyard lads," said Mrs. Weir.

My lord's voice rang out as it did seldom in the privacy of his own house. "I'll have nonn
of that, sir!" he cried. "Do you hear me?--nonn of that! No son of mine shall be speldering
in the glaur with any dirty raibble."

The anxious mother was grateful for so much support; she had even feared the contrary. And
that night when she put the child to bed--"Now, my dear, ye see!" she said, "I told you what
your faither would think of it, if he heard ye had fallen into this dreidful sin; and let you
and me pray to God that ye may be keepit from the like temptation or stren'thened to resist it!"

The womanly falsity of this was thrown away. Ice and iron cannot be welded; and the points
of view of the Justice-Clerk and Mrs. Weir were not less unassimilable. The character and position
of his father had long been a stumbling-block to Archie, and with every year of his age the
difficulty grew more instant. The man was mostly silent; when he spoke at all, it was to speak
of the things of the world, always in a worldly spirit, often in language that the child had
been schooled to think coarse, and sometimes with words that he knew to be sins in themselves.
Tenderness was the first duty, and my lord was invariably harsh. God was love; the name of
my lord (to all who knew him) was fear. In the world, as schematised for Archie by his mother,
the place was marked for such a creature. There were some whom it was good to pity and well
(though very likely useless) to pray for; they were named reprobates, goats, God's enemies,
brands for the burning; and Archie tallied every mark of identification, and drew the inevitable
private inference that the Lord Justice-Clerk was the chief of sinners.

The mother's honesty was scarce complete. There was one influence she feared for the child
and still secretly combated; that was my lord's; and half unconsciously, half in a wilful blindness,
she continued to undermine her husband with his son. As long as Archie remained silent, she
did so ruthlessly, with a single eye to heaven and the child's salvation; but the day came
when Archie spoke. It was 1801, and Archie was seven, and beyond his years for curiosity and
logic, when he brought the case up openly. If judging were sinful and forbidden, how came papa
to be a judge? to have that sin for a trade? to bear the name of it for a distinction?

"I can't see it," said the little Rabbi, and wagged his head.

Mrs. Weir abounded in commonplace replies.

"No, I canna see it," reiterated Archie. "And I'll tell you what, mamma, I don't think you
and me's justifeed in staying with him."

The woman awoke to remorse; she saw herself disloyal to her man, her sovereign and bread-winner,
in whom (with what she had of worldliness) she took a certain subdued pride. She expatiated
in reply on my lord's honour and greatness; his useful services in this world of sorrow and
wrong, and the place in which he stood, far above where babes and innocents could hope to see
or criticise. But she had builded too well--Archie had his answers pat: Were not babes and
innocents the type of the kingdom of heaven? Were not honour and greatness the badges of the
world? And at any rate, how about the mob that had once seethed about the carriage?

"It's all very fine," he concluded, "but in my opinion, papa has no right to be it. And it
seems that's not the worst yet of it. It seems he's called 'the Hanging Judge'--it seems he's
crooool. I'll tell you what it is, mamma, there's a tex' borne in upon me: It were better for
that man if a milestone were bound upon his back and him flung into the deepestmost pairts
of the sea."

"O my lamb, ye must never say the like of that!" she cried. "Ye're to honour faither and mother,
dear, that your days may be long in the land. It's Atheists that cry out against him--French
Atheists, Erchie! Ye would never surely even yourself down to be saying the same thing as French
Atheists? It would break my heart to think that of you. And O, Erchie, here arena you setting
up to judge? And have ye no forgot God's plain command--the First with Promise, dear? Mind
you upon the beam and the mote!"

Having thus carried the war into the enemy's camp, the terrified lady breathed again. And no
doubt it is easy thus to circumvent a child with catchwords, but it may be questioned how far
it is effectual. An instinct in his breast detects the quibble, and a voice condemns it. He
will instantly submit, privately hold the same opinion. For even in this simple and antique
relation of the mother and the child, hypocrisies are multiplied.

When the Court rose that year and the family returned to Hermiston, it was a common remark
in all the country that the lady was sore failed. She seemed to lose and seize again her touch
with life, now sitting inert in a sort of durable bewilderment, anon waking to feverish and
weak activity. She dawdled about the lasses at their work, looking stupidly on; she fell to
rummaging in old cabinets and presses, and desisted when half through; she would begin remarks
with an air of animation and drop them without a struggle. Her common appearance was of one
who has forgotten something and is trying to remember; and when she overhauled, one after another,
the worthless and touching mementoes of her youth, she might have been seeking the clue to
that lost thought. During this period she gave many gifts to the neighbours and house lasses,
giving them with a manner of regret that embarrassed the recipients.

The last night of all she was busy on some female work, and toiled upon it with so manifest
and painful a devotion that my lord (who was not often curious) inquired as to its nature.

She blushed to the eyes. "O, Edom, it's for you!" she said. "It's slippers. I--I hae never
made ye any."

"Ye daft auld wife!" returned his lordship. "A bonny figure I would be, palmering about in
bauchles!"

The next day, at the hour of her walk, Kirstie interfered. Kirstie took this decay of her mistress
very hard; bore her a grudge, quarrelled with and railed upon her, the anxiety of a genuine
love wearing the disguise of temper. This day of all days she insisted disrespectfully, with
rustic fury, that Mrs. Weir should stay at home. But, "No, no," she said, "it's my lord's orders,"
and set forth as usual. Archie was visible in the acre bog, engaged upon some childish enterprise,
the instrument of which was mire; and she stood and looked at him a while like one about to
call; then thought otherwise, sighed, and shook her head, and proceeded on her rounds alone.
The house lasses were at the burn-side washing, and saw her pass with her loose, weary, dowdy gait.

"She's a terrible feckless wife the mistress!" said the one.

"Tut," said the other, "the wumman's seeck."

"Weel, I canna see nae differ in her," returned the first. "A füshionless quean, a feckless
carline."

The poor creature thus discussed rambled a while in the grounds without a purpose. Tides in
her mind ebbed and flowed, and carried her to and fro like seaweed. She tried a path, paused,
returned, and tried another; questing, forgetting her quest; the spirit of choice extinct in
her bosom, or devoid of sequency. On a sudden, it appeared as though she had remembered, or
had formed a resolution, wheeled about, returned with hurried steps, and appeared in the dining-room,
where Kirstie was at the cleaning, like one charged with an important errand.

"Kirstie!" she began, and paused; and then with conviction, "Mr. Weir isna speeritually minded,
but he has been a good man to me."

It was perhaps the first time since her husband's elevation that she had forgotten the handle
to his name, of which the tender, inconsistent woman was not a little proud. And when Kirstie
looked up at the speaker's face, she was aware of a change.

"Godsake, what's the maitter wi' ye, mem?" cried the housekeeper, starting from the rug.

"I do not ken," answered her mistress, shaking her head. "But he is not speeritually minded,
my dear."

"Here, sit down with ye! Godsake, what ails the wife?" cried Kirstie, and helped and forced
her into my lord's own chair by the cheek of the hearth.

"Keep me, what's this?" she gasped. "Kirstie, what's this? I'm frich'ened."

They were her last words.

It was the lowering nightfall when my lord returned. He had the sunset in his back, all clouds
and glory; and before him, by the wayside, spied Kirstie Elliott waiting. She was dissolved
in tears, and addressed him in the high, false note of barbarous mourning, such as still lingers
modified among Scots heather.

"The Lord peety ye, Hermiston! the Lord prepare ye!" she keened out. "Weary upon me, that I
should have to tell it!"

He reined in his horse and looked upon her with the hanging face.

"Has the French landit?" cried he.

"Man, man," she said, "is that a' ye can think of? The Lord prepare ye: the Lord comfort and
support ye!"

"Is onybody deid?" says his lordship. "It's no Erchie?"

"Bethankit, no!" exclaimed the woman, startled into a more natural tone. "Na, na, it's no sae
bad as that. It's the mistress, my lord; she just fair flittit before my e'en. She just gi'ed
a sab and was by wi' it. Eh, my bonny Miss Jeannie, that I mind sae weel!" And forth again
upon that pouring tide of lamentation in which women of her class excel and over-abound.

Lord Hermiston sat in the saddle beholding her. Then he seemed to recover command upon himself.

"Weel, it's something of the suddenest," said he. "But she was a dwaibly body from the first."

And he rode home at a precipitate amble with Kirstie at his horse's heels.

Dressed as she was for her last walk, they had laid the dead lady on her bed. She was never
interesting in life; in death she was not impressive; and as her husband stood before her,
with his hands crossed behind his powerful back, that which he looked upon was the very image
of the insignificant.

"Her and me were never cut out for one another," he remarked at last. "It was a daft-like marriage."
And then, with a most unusual gentleness of tone, "Puir bitch," said he, "puir bitch!" Then
suddenly: "Where's Erchie?"

Kirstie had decoyed him to her room and given him "a jeely-piece."

"Ye have some kind of gumption, too," observed the judge, and considered his housekeeper grimly.
"When all's said," he added, "I micht have done waur--I micht have been marriet upon a skirling
Jezebel like you!"

"There's naebody thinking of you, Hermiston!" cried the offended woman. "We think of her that's
out of her sorrows. And could she have done waur? Tell me that, Hermiston--tell me that before
her clay-cauld corp!"

"Weel, there's some of them gey an' ill to please," observed his lordship.

CHAPTER II

FATHER AND SON

My Lord Justice-Clerk was known to many; the man Adam Weir perhaps to none. He had nothing
to explain or to conceal; he sufficed wholly and silently to himself; and that part of our
nature which goes out (too often with false coin) to acquire glory or love, seemed in him to
be omitted. He did not try to be loved, he did not care to be; it is probable the very thought
of it was a stranger to his mind. He was an admired lawyer, a highly unpopular judge; and he
looked down upon those who were his inferiors in either distinction, who were lawyers of less
grasp or judges not so much detested. In all the rest of his days and doings, not one trace
of vanity appeared; and he went on through life with a mechanical movement, as of the unconscious,
that was almost august.

He saw little of his son. In the childish maladies with which the boy was troubled, he would
make daily inquiries and daily pay him a visit, entering the sick-room with a facetious and
appalling countenance, letting off a few perfunctory jests, and going again swiftly, to the
patient's relief. Once, a Court holiday falling opportunely, my lord had his carriage, and
drove the child himself to Hermiston, the customary place of convalescence. It is conceivable
he had been more than usually anxious, for that journey always remained in Archie's memory
as a thing apart, his father having related to him from beginning to end, and with much detail,
three authentic murder cases. Archie went the usual round of other Edinburgh boys, the High
School and the College; and Hermiston looked on, or rather looked away, with scarce an affectation
of interest in his progress. Daily, indeed, upon a signal after dinner, he was brought in,
given nuts and a glass of port, regarded sardonically, sarcastically questioned. "Well, sir,
and what have you donn with your book to-day?" my lord might begin, and set him posers in law
Latin. To a child just stumbling into Corderius, Papinian and Paul proved quite invincible.
But papa had memory of no other. He was not harsh to the little scholar, having a vast fund
of patience learned upon the Bench, and was at no pains whether to conceal or to express his
disappointment. "Well, ye have a long jaunt before ye yet!" he might observe, yawning, and
fall back on his own thoughts (as like as not) until the time came for separation, and my lord
would take the decanter and the glass, and be off to the back chamber looking on the Meadows,
where he toiled on his cases till the hours were small. There was no "fuller man" on the Bench;
his memory was marvellous, though wholly legal; if he had to "advise" extempore, none did it
better; yet there was none who more earnestly prepared. As he thus watched in the night, or
sat at table and forgot the presence of his son, no doubt but he tasted deeply of recondite
pleasures. To be wholly devoted to some intellectual exercise is to have succeeded in life;
and perhaps only in law and the higher mathematics may this devotion be maintained, suffice
to itself without reaction, and find continual rewards without excitement. This atmosphere
of his father's sterling industry was the best of Archie's education. Assuredly it did not
attract him; assuredly it rather rebutted and depressed. Yet it was still present, unobserved
like the ticking of a clock, an arid ideal, a tasteless stimulant in the boy's life.

But Hermiston was not all of one piece. He was, besides, a mighty toper; he could sit at wine
until the day dawned, and pass directly from the table to the Bench with a steady hand and
a clear head. Beyond the third bottle, he showed the plebeian in a larger print; the low, gross
accent, the low, foul mirth, grew broader and commoner; he became less formidable, and infinitely
more disgusting. Now, the boy had inherited from Jean Rutherford a shivering delicacy, unequally
mated with potential violence. In the playing-fields, and amongst his own companions, he repaid
a coarse expression with a blow; at his father's table (when the time came for him to join
these revels) he turned pale and sickened in silence. Of all the guests whom he there encountered,
he had toleration for only one: David Keith Carnegie, Lord Glenalmond. Lord Glenalmond was
tall and emaciated, with long features and long delicate hands. He was often compared with
the statue of Forbes of Culloden in the Parliament House; and his blue eye, at more than sixty,
preserved some of the fire of youth. His exquisite disparity with any of his fellow-guests,
his appearance as of an artist and an aristocrat stranded in rude company, riveted the boy's
attention; and as curiosity and interest are the things in the world that are the most immediately
and certainly rewarded, Lord Glenalmond was attracted by the boy.

"And so this is your son, Hermiston?" he asked, laying his hand on Archie's shoulder. "He's
getting a big lad."

"Hout!" said the gracious father, "just his mother over again--daurna say boo to a goose!"

But the stranger retained the boy, talked to him, drew him out, found in him a taste for letters,
and a fine, ardent, modest, youthful soul; and encouraged him to be a visitor on Sunday evenings
in his bare, cold, lonely dining-room, where he sat and read in the isolation of a bachelor
grown old in refinement. The beautiful gentleness and grace of the old judge, and the delicacy
of his person, thoughts, and language, spoke to Archie's heart in its own tongue. He conceived
the ambition to be such another; and, when the day came for him to choose a profession, it
was in emulation of Lord Glenalmond, not of Lord Hermiston, that he chose the Bar. Hermiston
looked on at this friendship with some secret pride, but openly with the intolerance of scorn.
He scarce lost an opportunity to put them down with a rough jape; and, to say truth, it was
not difficult, for they were neither of them quick. He had a word of contempt for the whole
crowd of poets, painters, fiddlers, and their admirers, the bastard race of amateurs, which
was continually on his lips. "Signor Feedle-eerie!" he would say. "O, for Goad's sake, no more
of the Signor!"

"You and my father are great friends, are you not?" asked Archie once.

"There is no man that I more respect, Archie," replied Lord Glenalmond. "He is two things of
price: he is a great lawyer, and he is upright as the day."

"You and he are so different," said the boy, his eyes dwelling on those of his old friend,
like a lover's on his mistress's.

"Indeed so," replied the judge; "very different. And so I fear are you and he. Yet I would
like it very ill if my young friend were to misjudge his father. He has all the Roman virtues:
Cato and Brutus were such; I think a son's heart might well be proud of such an ancestry of one."

"And I would sooner he were a plaided herd," cried Archie, with sudden bitterness.

"And that is neither very wise, nor I believe entirely true," returned Glenalmond. "Before
you are done you will find some of these expressions rise on you like a remorse. They are merely
literary and decorative; they do not aptly express your thought, nor is your thought clearly
apprehended, and no doubt your father (if he were here) would say, 'Signor Feedle-eerie!'"

With the infinitely delicate sense of youth, Archie avoided the subject from that hour. It
was perhaps a pity. Had he but talked--talked freely--let himself gush out in words (the way
youth loves to do, and should), there might have been no tale to write upon the Weirs of Hermiston.
But the shadow of a threat of ridicule sufficed; in the slight tartness of these words he read
a prohibition; and it is likely that Glenalmond meant it so.

Besides the veteran, the boy was without confidant or friend. Serious and eager, he came through
school and college, and moved among a crowd of the indifferent, in the seclusion of his shyness.
He grew up handsome, with an open, speaking countenance, with graceful, youthful ways; he was
clever, he took prizes, he shone in the Speculative Society. It should seem he must become
the centre of a crowd of friends; but something that was in part the delicacy of his mother,
in part the austerity of his father, held him aloof from all. It is a fact, and a strange one,
that among his contemporaries Hermiston's son was thought to be a chip of the old block. "You're
a friend of Archie Weir's?" said one to Frank Innes; and Innes replied, with his usual flippancy
and more than his usual insight: "I know Weir, but I never met Archie." No one had met Archie,
a malady most incident to only sons. He flew his private signal, and none heeded it; it seemed
he was abroad in a world from which the very hope of intimacy was banished; and he looked round
about him on the concourse of his fellow-students, and forward to the trivial days and acquaintances
that were to come, without hope or interest.

As time went on, the tough and rough old sinner felt himself drawn to the son of his loins
and sole continuator of his new family, with softnesses of sentiment that he could hardly credit
and was wholly impotent to express. With a face, voice, and manner trained through forty years
to terrify and repel, Rhadamanthus may be great, but he will scarce be engaging. It is a fact
that he tried to propitiate Archie, but a fact that cannot be too lightly taken; the attempt
was so unconspicuously made, the failure so stoically supported. Sympathy is not due to these
steadfast iron natures. If he failed to gain his son's friendship, or even his son's toleration,
on he went up the great, bare staircase of his duty, uncheered and undepressed. There might
have been more pleasure in his relations with Archie, so much he may have recognised at moments;
but pleasure was a by-product of the singular chemistry of life, which only fools expected.

An idea of Archie's attitude, since we are all grown up and have forgotten the days of our
youth, it is more difficult to convey. He made no attempt whatsoever to understand the man
with whom he dined and breakfasted. Parsimony of pain, glut of pleasure, these are the two
alternating ends of youth; and Archie was of the parsimonious. The wind blew cold out of a
certain quarter--he turned his back upon it; stayed as little as was possible in his father's
presence; and when there, averted his eyes as much as was decent from his father's face. The
lamp shone for many hundred days upon these two at table--my lord ruddy, gloomy, and unreverend;
Archie with a potential brightness that was always dimmed and veiled in that society; and there
were not, perhaps, in Christendom two men more radically strangers. The father, with a grand
simplicity, either spoke of what interested himself, or maintained an unaffected silence. The
son turned in his head for some topic that should be quite safe, that would spare him fresh
evidences either of my lord's inherent grossness or of the innocence of his inhumanity; treading
gingerly the ways of intercourse, like a lady gathering up her skirts in a by-path. If he made
a mistake, and my lord began to abound in matter of offence, Archie drew himself up, his brow
grew dark, his share of the talk expired; but my lord would faithfully and cheerfully continue
to pour out the worst of himself before his silent and offended son.

"Well, it's a poor hert that never rejoices!" he would say, at the conclusion of such a nightmare
interview. "But I must get to my plew-stilts." And he would seclude himself as usual in the
back room, and Archie go forth into the night and the city quivering with animosity and scorn.

CHAPTER III

IN THE MATTER OF THE HANGING OF DUNCAN JOPP

It chanced in the year 1813 that Archie strayed one day into the Justiciary Court. The macer
made room for the son of the presiding judge. In the dock, the centre of men's eyes, there
stood a whey-coloured, misbegotten caitiff, Duncan Jopp, on trial for his life. His story,
as it was raked out before him in that public scene, was one of disgrace and vice and cowardice,
the very nakedness of crime; and the creature heard, and it seemed at times as though he understood--as
if at times he forgot the horror of the place he stood in, and remembered the shame of what
had brought him there. He kept his head bowed and his hands clutched upon the rail; his hair
dropped in his eyes and at times he flung it back; and now he glanced about the audience in
a sudden fellness of terror, and now looked in the face of his judge and gulped. There was
pinned about his throat a piece of dingy flannel; and this it was perhaps that turned the scale
in Archie's mind between disgust and pity. The creature stood in a vanishing point; yet a little
while, and he was still a man, and had eyes and apprehension; yet a little longer, and with
a last sordid piece of pageantry, he would cease to be. And here, in the meantime, with a trait
of human nature that caught at the beholder's breath, he was tending a sore throat.

Over against him, my Lord Hermiston occupied the Bench in the red robes of criminal jurisdiction,
his face framed in the white wig. Honest all through, he did not affect the virtue of impartiality;
this was no case for refinement; there was a man to be hanged, he would have said, and he was
hanging him. Nor was it possible to see his lordship, and acquit him of gusto in the task.
It was plain he gloried in the exercise of his trained faculties, in the clear sight which
pierced at once into the joint of fact, in the rude, unvarnished gibes with which he demolished
every figment of defence. He took his ease and jested, unbending in that solemn place with
some of the freedom of the tavern; and the rag of man with the flannel round his neck was hunted
gallowsward with jeers.

Duncan had a mistress, scarce less forlorn and greatly older than himself, who came up, whimpering
and curtseying, to add the weight of her betrayal. My lord gave her the oath in his most roaring
voice, and added an intolerant warning.

"Mind what ye say now, Janet," said he. "I have an e'e upon ye, I'm ill to jest with."

Presently, after she was tremblingly embarked on her story, "And what made ye do this, ye auld
runt?" the Court interposed. "Do ye mean to tell me ye was the panel's mistress?"

"If you please, ma loard," whined the female.

"Godsake! ye made a bonny couple," observed his lordship; and there was something so formidable
and ferocious in his scorn that not even the galleries thought to laugh.

The summing up contained some jewels.

"These two peetiable creatures seem to have made up thegither, it's not for us to explain why."--"The
panel, who (whatever else he may be) appears to be equally ill set-out in mind and boady."--"Neither
the panel nor yet the old wife appears to have had so much common sense as even to tell a lie
when it was necessary." And in the course of sentencing, my lord had this obiter dictum: "I
have been the means, under God, of haanging a great number, but never just such a disjaskit
rascal as yourself." The words were strong in themselves; the light and heat and detonation
of their delivery, and the savage pleasure of the speaker in his task, made them tingle in
the ears.

When all was over, Archie came forth again into a changed world. Had there been the least redeeming
greatness in the crime, any obscurity, any dubiety, perhaps he might have understood. But the
culprit stood, with his sore throat, in the sweat of his mortal agony, without defence or excuse:
a thing to cover up with blushes: a being so much sunk beneath the zones of sympathy that pity
might seem harmless. And the judge had pursued him with a monstrous, relishing gaiety, horrible
to be conceived, a trait for nightmares. It is one thing to spear a tiger, another to crush
a toad; there are æsthetics even of the slaughter-house; and the loathsomeness of Duncan Jopp
enveloped and infected the image of his judge.

Archie passed by his friends in the High Street with incoherent words and gestures. He saw
Holyrood in a dream, remembrance of its romance awoke in him and faded; he had a vision of
the old radiant stories, of Queen Mary and Prince Charlie, of the hooded stag, of the splendour
and crime, the velvet and bright iron of the past; and dismissed them with a cry of pain. He
lay and moaned in the Hunter's Bog, and the heavens were dark above him and the grass of the
field an offence. "This is my father," he said. "I draw my life from him; the flesh upon my
bones is his, the bread I am fed with is the wages of these horrors." He recalled his mother,
and ground his forehead in the earth. He thought of flight, and where was he to flee to? of
other lives, but was there any life worth living in this den of savage and jeering animals?

The interval before the execution was like a violent dream. He met his father; he would not
look at him, he could not speak to him. It seemed there was no living creature but must have
been swift to recognise that imminent animosity; but the hide of the Justice-Clerk remained
impenetrable. Had my lord been talkative, the truce could never have subsisted; but he was
by fortune in one of his humours of sour silence; and under the very guns of his broadside,
Archie nursed the enthusiasm of rebellion. It seemed to him, from the top of his nineteen years'
experience, as if he were marked at birth to be the perpetrator of some signal action, to set
back fallen Mercy, to overthrow the usurping devil that sat, horned and hoofed, on her throne.
Seductive Jacobin figments, which he had often refuted at the Speculative, swam up in his mind
and startled him as with voices: and he seemed to himself to walk accompanied by an almost
tangible presence of new beliefs and duties.

On the named morning he was at the place of execution. He saw the fleering rabble, the flinching
wretch produced. He looked on for a while at a certain parody of devotion, which seemed to
strip the wretch of his last claim to manhood. Then followed the brutal instant of extinction,
and the paltry dangling of the remains like a broken jumping-jack. He had been prepared for
something terrible, not for this tragic meanness. He stood a moment silent, and then--"I denounce
this God-defying murder," he shouted; and his father, if he must have disclaimed the sentiment,
might have owned the stentorian voice with which it was uttered.

Frank Innes dragged him from the spot. The two handsome lads followed the same course of study
and recreation, and felt a certain mutual attraction, founded mainly on good looks. It had
never gone deep; Frank was by nature a thin, jeering creature, not truly susceptible whether
of feeling or inspiring friendship; and the relation between the pair was altogether on the
outside, a thing of common knowledge and the pleasantries that spring from a common acquaintance.
The more credit to Frank that he was appalled by Archie's outburst, and at least conceived
the design of keeping him in sight, and, if possible, in hand for the day. But Archie, who
had just defied--was it God or Satan?--would not listen to the word of a college companion.

"I will not go with you," he said. "I do not desire your company, sir; I would be alone."

"Here, Weir, man, don't be absurd," said Innes, keeping a tight hold upon his sleeve. "I will
not let you go until I know what you mean to do with yourself; it's no use brandishing that
staff." For indeed at that moment Archie had made a sudden--perhaps a warlike--movement. "This
has been the most insane affair; you know it has. You know very well that I'm playing the good
Samaritan. All I wish is to keep you quiet."

"If quietness is what you wish, Mr. Innes," said Archie, "and you will promise to leave me
entirely to myself, I will tell you so much, that I am going to walk in the country and admire
the beauties of nature."

"Honour bright?" asked Frank.

"I am not in the habit of lying, Mr. Innes," retorted Archie. "I have the honour of wishing
you good-day."

"You won't forget the Spec.?" asked Innes.

"The Spec.?" said Archie. "O no, I won't forget the Spec."

And the one young man carried his tortured spirit forth of the city and all the day long, by
one road and another, in an endless pilgrimage of misery; while the other hastened smilingly
to spread the news of Weir's access of insanity, and to drum up for that night a full attendance
at the Speculative, where further eccentric developments might certainly be looked for. I doubt
if Innes had the least belief in his prediction; I think it flowed rather from a wish to make
the story as good and the scandal as great as possible; not from any ill-will to Archie--from
the mere pleasure of beholding interested faces. But for all that his words were prophetic.
Archie did not forget the Spec.; he put in an appearance there at the due time, and, before
the evening was over, had dealt a memorable shock to his companions. It chanced he was the
president of the night. He sat in the same room where the Society still meets--only the portraits
were not there: the men who afterwards sat for them were then but beginning their careers.
The same lustre of many tapers shed its light over the meeting; the same chair, perhaps, supported
him that so many of us have sat in since. At times he seemed to forget the business of the
evening, but even in these periods he sat with a great air of energy and determination. At
times he meddled bitterly, and launched with defiance those fines which are the precious and
rarely used artillery of the president. He little thought, as he did so, how he resembled his
father, but his friends remarked upon it, chuckling. So far, in his high place above his fellow-students,
he seemed set beyond the possibility of any scandal; but his mind was made up--he was determined
to fulfil the sphere of his offence. He signed to Innes (whom he had just fined and who had
just impeached his ruling) to succeed him in the chair, stepped down from the platform, and
took his place by the chimney-piece, the shine of many wax tapers from above illuminating his
pale face, the glow of the great red fire relieving from behind his slim figure. He had to
propose, as an amendment to the next subject in the case-book, "Whether capital punishment
be consistent with God's will or man's policy?"

A breath of embarrassment, of something like alarm, passed round the room, so daring did these
words appear upon the lips of Hermiston's only son. But the amendment was not seconded; the
previous question was promptly moved and unanimously voted, and the momentary scandal smuggled
by. Innes triumphed in the fulfilment of his prophecy. He and Archie were now become the heroes
of the night; but whereas every one crowded about Innes, when the meeting broke up, but one
of all his companions came to speak to Archie.

"Weir, man! That was an extraordinary raid of yours!" observed this courageous member, taking
him confidentially by the arm as they went out.

"I don't think it a raid," said Archie grimly. "More like a war. I saw that poor brute hanged
this morning, and my gorge rises at it yet."

"Hut-tut," returned his companion, and, dropping his arm like something hot, he sought the
less tense society of others.

Archie found himself alone. The last of the faithful--or was it only the boldest of the curious?--had
fled. He watched the black huddle of his fellow-students draw off down and up the street, in
whispering or boisterous gangs. And the isolation of the moment weighed upon him like an omen
and an emblem of his destiny in life. Bred up in unbroken fear himself, among trembling servants,
and in a house which (at the least ruffle in the master's voice) shuddered into silence, he
saw himself on the brink of the red valley of war, and measured the danger and length of it
with awe. He made a détour in the glimmer and shadow of the streets, came into the back stable
lane, and watched for a long while the light burn steady in the judge's room. The longer he
gazed upon that illuminated window-blind, the more blank became the picture of the man who
sat behind it, endlessly turning over sheets of process, pausing to sip a glass of port, or
rising and passing heavily about his book-lined walls to verify some reference. He could not
combine the brutal judge and the industrious, dispassionate student; the connecting link escaped
him; from such a dual nature it was impossible he should predict behaviour; and he asked himself
if he had done well to plunge into a business of which the end could not be foreseen? and presently
after, with a sickening decline of confidence, if he had done loyally to strike his father?
For he had struck him--defied him twice over and before a cloud of witnesses--struck him a
public buffet before crowds. Who had called him to judge his father in these precarious and
high questions? The office was usurped. It might have become a stranger; in a son--there was
no blinking it--in a son, it was disloyal. And now, between these two natures so antipathetic,
so hateful to each other, there was depending an unpardonable affront: and the providence of
God alone might foresee the manner in which it would be resented by Lord Hermiston.

These misgivings tortured him all night and arose with him in the winter's morning; they followed
him from class to class, they made him shrinkingly sensitive to every shade of manner in his
companions, they sounded in his ears through the current voice of the professor; and he brought
them home with him at night unabated and indeed increased. The cause of this increase lay in
a chance encounter with the celebrated Dr. Gregory. Archie stood looking vaguely in the lighted
window of a book-shop, trying to nerve himself for the approaching ordeal. My lord and he had
met and parted in the morning as they had now done for long, with scarcely the ordinary civilities
of life; and it was plain to the son that nothing had yet reached the father's ears. Indeed,
when he recalled the awful countenance of my lord, a timid hope sprang up in him that perhaps
there would be found no one bold enough to carry tales. If this were so, he asked himself,
would he begin again? and he found no answer. It was at this moment that a hand was laid upon
his arm, and a voice said in his ear, "My dear Mr. Archie, you had better come and see me."

He started, turned round, and found himself face to face with Dr. Gregory. "And why should
I come to see you?" he asked, with the defiance of the miserable.

"Because you are looking exceedingly ill," said the doctor, "and you very evidently want looking
after, my young friend. Good folk are scarce, you know; and it is not every one that would
be quite so much missed as yourself. It is not every one that Hermiston would miss."

And with a nod and a smile, the doctor passed on.

A moment after, Archie was in pursuit, and had in turn, but more roughly, seized him by the arm.

"What do you mean? what did you mean by saying that? What makes you think that Hermis--my father
would have missed me?"

The doctor turned about and looked him all over with a clinical eye. A far more stupid man
than Dr. Gregory might have guessed the truth; but ninety-nine out of a hundred, even if they
had been equally inclined to kindness, would have blundered by some touch of charitable exaggeration.
The doctor was better inspired. He knew the father well; in that white face of intelligence
and suffering, he divined something of the son; and he told, without apology or adornment,
the plain truth.

"When you had the measles, Mr. Archibald, you had them gey and ill; and I thought you were
going to slip between my fingers," he said. "Well, your father was anxious. How did I know
it? says you. Simply because I am a trained observer. The sign that I saw him make, ten thousand
would have missed; and perhaps--perhaps, I say, because he's a hard man to judge of--but perhaps
he never made another. A strange thing to consider! It was this. One day I came to him: 'Hermiston,'
said I, 'there's a change.' He never said a word, just glowered at me (if ye'll pardon the
phrase) like a wild beast. 'A change for the better,' said I. And I distinctly heard him take
his breath."

The doctor left no opportunity for anti-climax; nodding his cocked hat (a piece of antiquity
to which he clung) and repeating "Distinctly" with raised eyebrows, he took his departure,
and left Archie speechless in the street.

The anecdote might be called infinitely little, and yet its meaning for Archie was immense.
"I did not know the old man had so much blood in him." He had never dreamed this sire of his,
this aboriginal antique, this adamantine Adam, had even so much of a heart as to be moved in
the least degree for another--and that other himself, who had insulted him! With the generosity
of youth, Archie was instantly under arms upon the other side: had instantly created a new
image of Lord Hermiston, that of a man who was all iron without and all sensibility within.
The mind of the vile jester, the tongue that had pursued Duncan Jopp with unmanly insults,
the unbeloved countenance that he had known and feared for so long, were all forgotten; and
he hastened home, impatient to confess his misdeeds, impatient to throw himself on the mercy
of this imaginary character.

He was not to be long without a rude awakening. It was in the gloaming when he drew near the
doorstep of the lighted house, and was aware of the figure of his father approaching from the
opposite side. Little daylight lingered; but on the door being opened, the strong yellow shine
of the lamp gushed out upon the landing and shone full on Archie, as he stood, in the old-fashioned
observance of respect, to yield precedence. The judge came without haste, stepping stately
and firm; his chin raised, his face (as he entered the lamplight) strongly illumined, his mouth
set hard. There was never a wink of change in his expression; without looking to the right
or left, he mounted the stair, passed close to Archie, and entered the house. Instinctively,
the boy, upon his first coming, had made a movement to meet him; instinctively he recoiled
against the railing, as the old man swept by him in a pomp of indignation. Words were needless;
he knew all--perhaps more than all--and the hour of judgment was at hand.

It is possible that, in this sudden revulsion of hope and before these symptoms of impending
danger, Archie might have fled. But not even that was left to him. My lord, after hanging up
his cloak and hat, turned round in the lighted entry, and made him an imperative and silent
gesture with his thumb, and with the strange instinct of obedience, Archie followed him into
the house.

All dinner-time there reigned over the judge's table a palpable silence, and as soon as the
solids were despatched he rose to his feet.

"M'Killop, tak' the wine into my room," said he; and then to his son: "Archie, you and me has
to have a talk."

It was at this sickening moment that Archie's courage, for the first and last time, entirely
deserted him. "I have an appointment," said he.

"It'll have to be broken, then," said Hermiston, and led the way into his study.

The lamp was shaded, the fire trimmed to a nicety, the table covered deep with orderly documents,
the backs of law-books made a frame upon all sides that was only broken by the window and the
doors.

For a moment Hermiston warmed his hands at the fire, presenting his back to Archie; then suddenly
disclosed on him the terrors of the Hanging Face.

"What's this I hear of ye?" he asked.

There was no answer possible to Archie.

"I'll have to tell ye, then," pursued Hermiston. "It seems ye've been skirling against the
father that begot ye, and one of his Maijesty's judges in this land; and that in the public
street, and while an order of the Court was being executit. Forbye which, it would appear that
ye've been airing your opeenions in a Coallege Debatin' Society"; he paused a moment: and then,
with extraordinary bitterness, added: "Ye damned eediot."

"I had meant to tell you," stammered Archie. "I see you are well informed."

"Muckle obleeged to ye," said his lordship, and took his usual seat. "And so you disapprove
of caapital punishment?" he added.

"I am sorry, sir, I do," said Archie.

"I am sorry, too," said his lordship. "And now, if you please, we shall approach this business
with a little more parteecularity. I hear that at the hanging of Duncan Jopp--and, man! ye
had a fine client there--in the middle of all the riffraff of the ceety, ye thought fit to
cry out, 'This is a damned murder, and my gorge rises at the man that haangit him.'"

"No, sir, these were not my words," cried Archie.

"What were yer words, then?" asked the judge.

"I believe I said, 'I denounce it as a murder!'" said the son. "I beg your pardon--a God-defying
murder. I have no wish to conceal the truth," he added, and looked his father for a moment
in the face.

"God, it would only need that of it next!" cried Hermiston. "There was nothing about your gorge
rising, then?"

"That was afterwards, my lord, as I was leaving the Speculative. I said I had been to see the
miserable creature hanged, and my gorge rose at it."

"Did ye, though?" said Hermiston. "And I suppose ye knew who haangit him?"

"I was present at the trial; I ought to tell you that, I ought to explain. I ask your pardon
beforehand for any expression that may seem undutiful. The position in which I stand is wretched,"
said the unhappy hero, now fairly face to face with the business he had chosen. "I have been
reading some of your cases. I was present while Jopp was tried. It was a hideous business.
Father, it was a hideous thing! Grant he was vile, why should you hunt him with a vileness
equal to his own? It was done with glee--that is the word--you did it with glee; and I looked
on, God help me! with horror."

"You're a young gentleman that doesna approve of caapital punishment," said Hermiston. "Weel,
I'm an auld man that does. I was glad to get Jopp haangit, and what for would I pretend I wasna?
You're all for honesty, it seems; you couldn't even steik your mouth on the public street.
What for should I steik mines upon the Bench, the King's officer, bearing the sword, a dreid
to evil-doers, as I was from the beginning, and as I will be to the end! Mair than enough of
it! Heedious! I never gave twa thoughts to heediousness, I have no call to be bonny. I'm a
man that gets through with my day's business, and let that suffice."

The ring of sarcasm had died out of his voice as he went on; the plain words became invested
with some of the dignity of the Justice-seat.

"It would be telling you if you could say as much," the speaker resumed. "But ye cannot. Ye've
been reading some of my cases, ye say. But it was not for the law in them, it was to spy out
your faither's nakedness, a fine employment in a son. You're splairging; you're running at
lairge in life like a wild nowt. It's impossible you should think any longer of coming to the
Bar. You're not fit for it; no splairger is. And another thing: son of mines or no son of mines,
you have flung fylement in public on one of the Senators of the Coallege of Justice, and I
would make it my business to see that ye were never admitted there yourself. There is a kind
of a decency to be observit. Then comes the next of it--what am I to do with ye next? Ye'll
have to find some kind of a trade, for I'll never support ye in idleset. What do ye fancy ye'll
be fit for? The pulpit? Na, they could never get diveenity into that bloackhead. Him that the
law of man whammles is no likely to do muckle better by the law of God. What would ye make
of hell? Wouldna your gorge rise at that? Na, there's no room for splairgers under the fower
quarters of John Calvin. What else is there? Speak up. Have ye got nothing of your own?"

"Father, let me go to the Peninsula," said Archie. "That's all I'm fit for--to fight."

"All? quo' he!" returned the judge. "And it would be enough too, if I thought it. But I'll
never trust ye so near the French, you that's so Frenchifeed."

"You do me injustice there, sir," said Archie. "I am loyal; I will not boast; but any interest
I may have ever felt in the French--"

"Have ye been so loyal to me?" interrupted his father.

There came no reply.

"I think not," continued Hermiston. "And I would send no man to be a servant to the King, God
bless him! that has proved such a shauchling son to his own faither. You can splairge here
on Edinburgh street, and where's the hairm? It doesna play buff on me! And if there were twenty
thousand eediots like yourself, sorrow a Duncan Jopp would hang the fewer. But there's no splairging
possible in a camp; and if you were to go to it, you would find out for yourself whether Lord
Well'n'ton approves of caapital punishment or not. You a sodger!" he cried, with a sudden burst
of scorn. "Ye auld wife, the sodgers would bray at ye like cuddies!"

As at the drawing of a curtain, Archie was aware of some illogicality in his position, and
stood abashed. He had a strong impression, besides, of the essential valour of the old gentleman
before him, how conveyed it would be hard to say.

"Well, have ye no other proposeetion?" said my lord again.

"You have taken this so calmly, sir, that I cannot but stand ashamed," began Archie.

"I'm nearer voamiting, though, than you would fancy," said my lord.

The blood rose to Archie's brow.

"I beg your pardon, I should have said that you had accepted my affront.... I admit it was
an affront; I did not think to apologise, but I do, I ask your pardon; it will not be so again,
I pass you my word of honour.... I should have said that I admired your magnanimity with--this--offender,"
Archie concluded with a gulp.

"I have no other son, ye see," said Hermiston. "A bonny one I have gotten! But I must just
do the best I can wi' him, and what am I to do? If ye had been younger, I would have wheepit
ye for this rideeculous exhibeetion. The way it is, I have just to grin and bear. But one thing
is to be clearly understood. As a faither, I must grin and bear it; but if I had been the Lord
Advocate instead of the Lord Justice-Clerk, son or no son, Mr. Erchibald Weir would have been
in a jyle the night."

Archie was now dominated. Lord Hermiston was coarse and cruel; and yet the son was aware of
a bloomless nobility, an ungracious abnegation of the man's self in the man's office. At every
word, this sense of the greatness of Lord Hermiston's spirit struck more home; and along with
it that of his own impotence, who had struck--and perhaps basely struck--at his own father,
and not reached so far as to have even nettled him.

"I place myself in your hands without reserve," he said.

"That's the first sensible word I've had of ye the night," said Hermiston. "I can tell ye,
that would have been the end of it, the one way or the other; but it's better ye should come
there yourself, than what I would have had to hirstle ye. Weel, by my way of it--and my way
is the best--there's just the one thing it's possible that ye might be with decency, and that's
a laird. Ye'll be out of hairm's way at the least of it. If ye have to rowt, ye can rowt amang
the kye; and the maist feck of the caapital punishment ye're like to come across'll be guddling
trouts. Now, I'm for no idle lairdies; every man has to work, if it's only at peddling ballants;
to work, or to be wheeped, or to be haangit. If I set ye down at Hermiston, I'll have to see
you work that place the way it has never been workit yet; ye must ken about the sheep like
a herd; ye must be my grieve there, and I'll see that I gain by ye. Is that understood?"

"I will do my best," said Archie.

"Well, then, I'll send Kirstie word the morn, and ye can go yourself the day after," said Hermiston.
"And just try to be less of an eediot!" he concluded, with a freezing smile, and turned immediately
to the papers on his desk.

CHAPTER IV

OPINIONS OF THE BENCH

Late the same night, after a disordered walk, Archie was admitted into Lord Glenalmond's dining-room,
where he sat, with a book upon his knee, beside three frugal coals of fire. In his robes upon
the Bench, Glenalmond had a certain air of burliness: plucked of these, it was a may-pole of
a man that rose unsteadily from his chair to give his visitor welcome. Archie had suffered
much in the last days, he had suffered again that evening; his face was white and drawn, his
eyes wild and dark. But Lord Glenalmond greeted him without the least mark of surprise or curiosity.

"Come in, come in," said he. "Come in and take a seat. Carstairs" (to his servant), "make up
the fire, and then you can bring a bit of supper," and again to Archie, with a very trivial
accent: "I was half expecting you," he added.

"No supper," said Archie. "It is impossible that I should eat."

"Not impossible," said the tall old man, laying his hand upon his shoulder, "and, if you will
believe me, necessary."

"You know what brings me?" said Archie, as soon as the servant had left the room.

"I have a guess, I have a guess," replied Glenalmond. "We will talk of it presently--when Carstairs
has come and gone, and you have had a piece of my good Cheddar cheese and a pull at the porter
tankard: not before."

"It is impossible I should eat," repeated Archie.

"Tut, tut!" said Lord Glenalmond. "You have eaten nothing to-day, and I venture to add, nothing
yesterday. There is no case that may not be made worse; this may be a very disagreeable business,
but if you were to fall sick and die, it would be still more so, and for all concerned--for
all concerned."

"I see you must know all," said Archie. "Where did you hear it?"

"In the mart of scandal, in the Parliament House," said Glenalmond. "It runs riot below among
the Bar and the public, but it sifts up to us upon the Bench, and rumour has some of her voices
even in the divisions."

Carstairs returned at this moment, and rapidly laid out a little supper; during which Lord
Glenalmond spoke at large and a little vaguely on indifferent subjects, so that it might be
rather said of him that he made a cheerful noise, than that he contributed to human conversation;
and Archie sat upon the other side, not heeding him, brooding over his wrongs and errors.

But so soon as the servant was gone, he broke forth again at once. "Who told my father? Who
dared to tell him? Could it have been you?"

"No, it was not me," said the judge; "although--to be quite frank with you, after I had seen
and warned you--it might have been me. I believe it was Glenkindie."

"That shrimp!" cried Archie.

"As you say, that shrimp," returned my lord; "although really it is scarce a fitting mode of
expression for one of the senators of the College of Justice. We were hearing the parties in
a long, crucial case, before the fifteenth; Creech was moving at some length for an infeftment;
when I saw Glenkindie lean forward to Hermiston with his hand over his mouth and make him a
secret communication. No one could have guessed its nature from your father; from Glenkindie,
yes, his malice sparked out of him a little grossly. But your father, no. A man of granite.
The next moment he pounced upon Creech. 'Mr. Creech,' says he, 'I'll take a look of that sasine,'
and for thirty minutes after," said Glenalmond, with a smile, "Messrs. Creech and Co. were
fighting a pretty uphill battle, which resulted, I need hardly add, in their total rout. The
case was dismissed. No, I doubt if ever I heard Hermiston better inspired. He was literally
rejoicing in apicibus juris."

Archie was able to endure no longer. He thrust his plate away and interrupted the deliberate
and insignificant stream of talk. "Here," he said, "I have made a fool of myself, if I have
not made something worse. Do you judge between us--judge between a father and a son. I can
speak to you; it is not like ... I will tell you what I feel and what I mean to do; and you
shall be the judge," he repeated.

"I decline jurisdiction," said Glenalmond, with extreme seriousness. "But, my dear boy, if
it will do you any good to talk, and if it will interest you at all to hear what I may choose
to say when I have heard you, I am quite at your command. Let an old man say it, for once,
and not need to blush: I love you like a son."

There came a sudden sharp sound in Archie's throat. "Ay," he cried, "and there it is! Love!
Like a son! And how do you think I love my father?"

"Quietly, quietly," says my lord.

"I will be very quiet," replied Archie. "And I will be baldly frank. I do not love my father;
I wonder sometimes if I do not hate him. There's my shame; perhaps my sin; at least, and in
the sight of God, not my fault. How was I to love him? He has never spoken to me, never smiled
upon me; I do not think he ever touched me. You know the way he talks? You do not talk so,
yet you can sit and hear him without shuddering, and I cannot. My soul is sick when he begins
with it; I could smite him in the mouth. And all that's nothing. I was at the trial of this
Jopp. You were not there, but you must have heard him often; the man's notorious for it, for
being--look at my position! he's my father and this is how I have to speak of him--notorious
for being a brute and cruel and a coward. Lord Glenalmond, I give you my word, when I came
out of that Court, I longed to die--the shame of it was beyond my strength: but I--I----" he
rose from his seat and began to pace the room in a disorder. "Well, who am I? A boy, who have
never been tried, have never done anything except this twopenny impotent folly with my father.
But I tell you, my lord, and I know myself, I am at least that kind of a man--or that kind
of a boy, if you prefer it--that I could die in torments rather than that any one should suffer
as that scoundrel suffered. Well, and what have I done? I see it now. I have made a fool of
myself, as I said in the beginning; and I have gone back, and asked my father's pardon, and
placed myself wholly in his hands--and he has sent me to Hermiston," with a wretched smile,
"for life, I suppose--and what can I say? he strikes me as having done quite right, and let
me off better than I had deserved."

"My poor, dear boy!" observed Glenalmond. "My poor, dear and, if you will allow me to say so,
very foolish boy! You are only discovering where you are; to one of your temperament, or of
mine, a painful discovery. The world was not made for us; it was made for ten hundred millions
of men, all different from each other and from us; there's no royal road there, we just have
to sclamber and tumble. Don't think that I am at all disposed to be surprised; don't suppose
that I ever think of blaming you; indeed I rather admire! But there fall to be offered one
or two observations on the case which occur to me and which (if you will listen to them dispassionately)
may be the means of inducing you to view the matter more calmly. First of all, I cannot acquit
you of a good deal of what is called intolerance. You seem to have been very much offended
because your father talks a little sculduddery after dinner, which it is perfectly licit for
him to do, and which (although I am not very fond of it myself) appears to be entirely an affair
of taste. Your father, I scarcely like to remind you, since it is so trite a commonplace, is
older than yourself. At least, he is major and sui juris, and may please himself in the matter
of his conversation. And, do you know, I wonder if he might not have as good an answer against
you and me? We say we sometimes find him coarse, but I suspect he might retort that he finds
us always dull. Perhaps a relevant exception."

He beamed on Archie, but no smile could be elicited.

"And now," proceeded the judge, "for 'Archibald on Capital Punishment.' This is a very plausible
academic opinion; of course I do not and I cannot hold it; but that's not to say that many
able and excellent persons have not done so in the past. Possibly, in the past also, I may
have a little dipped myself in the same heresy. My third client, or possibly my fourth, was
the means of a return in my opinions. I never saw the man I more believed in; I would have
put my hand in the fire; I would have gone to the cross for him; and when it came to trial
he was gradually pictured before me, by undeniable probation, in the light of so gross, so
cold-blooded, and so black-hearted a villain, that I had a mind to have cast my brief upon
the table. I was then boiling against the man with even a more tropical temperature than I
had been boiling for him. But I said to myself: 'No, you have taken up his case; and because
you have changed your mind it must not be suffered to let drop. All that rich tide of eloquence
that you prepared last night with so much enthusiasm is out of place, and yet you must not
desert him, you must say something.' So I said something, and I got him off. It made my reputation.
But an experience of that kind is formative. A man must not bring his passions to the Bar--or
to the Bench," he added.

The story had slightly rekindled Archie's interest. "I could never deny," he began--"I mean
I can conceive that some men would be better dead. But who are we to know all the springs of
God's unfortunate creatures? Who are we to trust ourselves where it seems that God Himself
must think twice before He treads, and to do it with delight? Yes, with delight. Tigris ut aspera."

"Perhaps not a pleasant spectacle," said Glenalmond. "And yet, do you know, I think somehow
a great one."

"I've had a long talk with him to-night," said Archie.

"I was supposing so," said Glenalmond.

"And he struck me--I cannot deny that he struck me as something very big," pursued the son.
"Yes, he is big. He never spoke about himself; only about me. I suppose I admired him. The
dreadful part----"

"Suppose we did not talk about that," interrupted Glenalmond. "You know it very well, it cannot
in any way help that you should brood upon it, and I sometimes wonder whether you and I--who
are a pair of sentimentalists--are quite good judges of plain men."

"How do you mean?" asked Archie.

"Fair judges, I mean," replied Glenalmond. "Can we be just to them? Do we not ask too much?
There was a word of yours just now that impressed me a little when you asked me who we were
to know all the springs of God's unfortunate creatures. You applied that, as I understood,
to capital cases only. But does it--I ask myself--does it not apply all through? Is it any
less difficult to judge of a good man or of a half-good man, than of the worst criminal at
the bar? And may not each have relevant excuses?"

"Ah, but we do not talk of punishing the good," cried Archie.

"No, we do not talk of it," said Glenalmond. "But I think we do it. Your father, for instance."

"You think I have punished him?" cried Archie.

Lord Glenalmond bowed his head.

"I think I have," said Archie. "And the worst is, I think he feels it! How much, who can tell,
with such a being? But I think he does."

"And I am sure of it," said Glenalmond.

"Has he spoken to you, then?" cried Archie.

"O no," replied the judge.

"I tell you honestly," said Archie, "I want to make it up to him. I will go, I have already
pledged myself to go, to Hermiston. That was to him. And now I pledge myself to you, in the
sight of God, that I will close my mouth on capital punishment and all other subjects where
our views may clash, for--how long shall I say? when shall I have sense enough?--ten years.
Is that well?"

"It is well," said my lord.

"As far as it goes," said Archie. "It is enough as regards myself, it is to lay down enough
of my conceit. But as regards him, whom I have publicly insulted? What am I to do to him? How
do you pay attentions to a--an Alp like that?"

"Only in one way," replied Glenalmond. "Only by obedience, punctual, prompt, and scrupulous."

"And I promise that he shall have it," answered Archie. "I offer you my hand in pledge of it."

"And I take your hand as a solemnity," replied the judge. "God bless you, my dear, and enable
you to keep your promise. God guide you in the true way, and spare your days, and preserve
to you your honest heart." At that, he kissed the young man upon the forehead in a gracious,
distant, antiquated way; and instantly launched, with a marked change of voice, into another
subject. "And now, let us replenish the tankard; and I believe, if you will try my Cheddar
again, you would find you had a better appetite. The Court has spoken, and the case is dismissed."

"No, there is one thing I must say," cried Archie. "I must say it in justice to himself. I
know--I believe faithfully, slavishly, after our talk--he will never ask me anything unjust.
I am proud to feel it, that we have that much in common, I am proud to say it to you."

The judge, with shining eyes, raised his tankard. "And I think perhaps that we might permit
ourselves a toast," said he. "I should like to propose the health of a man very different from
me and very much my superior--a man from whom I have often differed, who has often (in the
trivial expression) rubbed me the wrong way, but whom I have never ceased to respect and, I
may add, to be not a little afraid of. Shall I give you his name?"

"The Lord Justice-Clerk, Lord Hermiston," said Archie, almost with gaiety; and the pair drank
the toast deeply.

It was not precisely easy to re-establish, after these emotional passages, the natural flow
of conversation. But the judge eked out what was wanting with kind looks, produced his snuff-box
(which was very rarely seen) to fill in a pause, and at last, despairing of any further social
success, was upon the point of getting down a book to read a favourite passage, when there
came a rather startling summons at the front door, and Carstairs ushered in my Lord Glenkindie,
hot from a midnight supper. I am not aware that Glenkindie was ever a beautiful object, being
short, and gross-bodied, and with an expression of sensuality comparable to a bear's. At that
moment, coming in hissing from many potations, with a flushed countenance and blurred eyes,
he was strikingly contrasted with the tall, pale, kingly figure of Glenalmond. A rush of confused
thought came over Archie--of shame that this was one of his father's elect friends; of pride,
that at the least of it Hermiston could carry his liquor; and last of all, of rage, that he
should have here under his eyes the man that had betrayed him. And then that too passed away;
and he sat quiet, biding his opportunity.

The tipsy senator plunged at once into an explanation with Glenalmond. There was a point reserved
yesterday, he had been able to make neither head nor tail of it, and seeing lights in the house,
he had just dropped in for a glass of porter--and at this point he became aware of the third
person. Archie saw the cod's mouth and the blunt lips of Glenkindie gape at him for a moment,
and the recognition twinkle in his eyes.

"Who's this?" said he. "What? is this possibly you, Don Quickshot? And how are ye? And how's
your father? And what's all this we hear of you? It seems you're a most extraordinary leveller,
by all tales. No king, no parliaments, and your gorge rises at the macers, worthy men! Hoot,
toot! Dear, dear me! Your father's son too! Most rideeculous!"

Archie was on his feet, flushing a little at the reappearance of his unhappy figure of speech,
but perfectly self-possessed. "My lord--and you, Lord Glenalmond, my dear friend," he began,
"this is a happy chance for me, that I can make my confession and offer my apologies to two
of you at once."

"Ah, but I don't know about that. Confession? It'll be judeecial, my young friend," cried the
jocular Glenkindie. "And I'm afraid to listen to ye. Think if ye were to make me a coanvert!"

"If you would allow me, my lord," returned Archie, "what I have to say is very serious to me;
and be pleased to be humorous after I am gone!"

"Remember, I'll hear nothing against the macers!" put in the incorrigible Glenkindie.

But Archie continued as though he had not spoken. "I have played, both yesterday and to-day,
a part for which I can only offer the excuse of youth. I was so unwise as to go to an execution;
it seems I made a scene at the gallows; not content with which, I spoke the same night in a
college society against capital punishment. This is the extent of what I have done, and in
case you hear more alleged against me, I protest my innocence. I have expressed my regret already
to my father, who is so good as to pass my conduct over--in a degree, and upon the condition
that I am to leave my law studies." ...

CHAPTER V

WINTER ON THE MOORS

  1. At Hermiston

The road to Hermiston runs for a great part of the way up the valley of a stream, a favourite
with anglers and with midges, full of falls and pools, and shaded by willows and natural woods
of birch. Here and there, but at great distances, a byway branches off, and a gaunt farmhouse
may be descried above in a fold of the hill; but the more part of the time, the road would
be quite empty of passage and the hills of habitation. Hermiston parish is one of the least
populous in Scotland; and, by the time you came that length, you would scarce be surprised
at the inimitable smallness of the kirk, a dwarfish, ancient place seated for fifty, and standing
in a green by the burn-side among two-score gravestones. The manse close by, although no more
than a cottage, is surrounded by the brightness of a flower-garden and the straw roofs of bees;
and the whole colony, kirk and manse, garden and graveyard, finds harbourage in a grove of
rowans, and is all the year round in a great silence broken only by the drone of the bees,
the tinkle of the burn, and the bell on Sundays. A mile beyond the kirk the road leaves the
valley by a precipitous ascent, and brings you a little after to the place of Hermiston, where
it comes to an end in the back-yard before the coach-house. All beyond and about is the great
field of the hills; the plover, the curlew, and the lark cry there; the wind blows as it blows
in a ship's rigging, hard and cold and pure; and the hill-tops huddle one behind another, like
a herd of cattle, into the sunset.

The house was sixty years old, unsightly, comfortable; a farmyard and a kitchen-garden on the
left, with a fruit wall where little hard green pears came to their maturity about the end
of October.

The policy (as who should say the park) was of some extent, but very ill reclaimed; heather
and moor-fowl had crossed the boundary wall and spread and roosted within; and it would have
tasked a landscape gardener to say where policy ended and unpolicied nature began. My lord
had been led by the influence of Mr. Sheriff Scott into a considerable design of planting;
many acres were accordingly set out with fir, and the little feathery besoms gave a false scale
and lent a strange air of a toy-shop to the moors. A great, rooty sweetness of bogs was in
the air, and at all seasons an infinite melancholy piping of hill birds. Standing so high and
with so little shelter, it was a cold, exposed house, splashed by showers, drenched by continuous
rains that made the gutters to spout, beaten upon and buffeted by all the winds of heaven;
and the prospect would be often black with tempest, and often white with the snows of winter.
But the house was wind and weather proof, the hearths were kept bright, and the rooms pleasant
with live fires of peat; and Archie might sit of an evening and hear the squalls bugle on the
moorland, and watch the fire prosper in the earthy fuel, and the smoke winding up the chimney,
and drink deep of the pleasures of shelter.

Solitary as the place was, Archie did not want neighbours. Every night, if he chose, he might
go down to the manse and share a "brewst" of toddy with the minister--a hare-brained ancient
gentleman, long and light and still active, though his knees were loosened with age, and his
voice broke continually in childish trebles--and his lady wife, a heavy, comely dame, without
a word to say for herself beyond good-even and good-day. Harum-scarum, clodpole young lairds
of the neighbourhood paid him the compliment of a visit. Young Hay of Romanes rode down to
call, on his crop-eared pony; young Pringle of Drumanno came up on his bony grey. Hay remained
on the hospitable field, and must be carried to bed; Pringle got somehow to his saddle about
3 A.M., and (as Archie stood with the lamp on the upper doorstep) lurched, uttered a senseless
view-holloa, and vanished out of the small circle of illumination like a wraith. Yet a minute
or two longer the clatter of his break-neck flight was audible, then it was cut off by the
intervening steepness of the hill; and again, a great while after, the renewed beating of phantom
horsehoofs, far in the valley of the Hermiston, showed that the horse at least, if not his
rider, was still on the homeward way.

There was a Tuesday club at the "Crosskeys" in Crossmichael, where the young bloods of the
countryside congregated and drank deep on a percentage of the expense, so that he was left
gainer who should have drunk the most. Archie had no great mind to this diversion, but he took
it like a duty laid upon him, went with a decent regularity, did his manfullest with the liquor,
held up his head in the local jests, and got home again and was able to put up his horse, to
the admiration of Kirstie and the lass that helped her. He dined at Driffel, supped at Windielaws.
He went to the new year's ball at Huntsfield and was made welcome, and thereafter rode to hounds
with my Lord Muirfell, upon whose name, as that of a legitimate Lord of Parliament, in a work
so full of Lords of Session, my pen should pause reverently. Yet the same fate attended him
here as in Edinburgh. The habit of solitude tends to perpetuate itself, and an austerity of
which he was quite unconscious, and a pride which seemed arrogance, and perhaps was chiefly
shyness, discouraged and offended his new companions. Hay did not return more than twice, Pringle
never at all, and there came a time when Archie even desisted from the Tuesday Club, and became
in all things--what he had had the name of almost from the first--the Recluse of Hermiston.
High-nosed Miss Pringle of Drumanno and high-stepping Miss Marshall of the Mains were understood
to have had a difference of opinion about him the day after the ball--he was none the wiser,
he could not suppose himself to be remarked by these entrancing ladies. At the ball itself
my Lord Muirfell's daughter, the Lady Flora, spoke to him twice, and the second time with a
touch of appeal, so that her colour rose and her voice trembled a little in his ear, like a
passing grace in music. He stepped back with a heart on fire, coldly and not ungracefully excused
himself, and a little after watched her dancing with young Drumanno of the empty laugh, and
was harrowed at the sight, and raged to himself that this was a world in which it was given
to Drumanno to please, and to himself only to stand aside and envy. He seemed excluded, as
of right, from the favour of such society--seemed to extinguish mirth wherever he came, and
was quick to feel the wound, and desist, and retire into solitude. If he had but understood
the figure he presented, and the impression he made on these bright eyes and tender hearts;
if he had but guessed that the Recluse of Hermiston, young, graceful, well spoken, but always
cold, stirred the maidens of the county with the charm of Byronism when Byronism was new, it
may be questioned whether his destiny might not even yet have been modified. It may be questioned,
and I think it should be doubted. It was in his horoscope to be parsimonious of pain to himself,
or of the chance of pain, even to the avoidance of any opportunity of pleasure; to have a Roman
sense of duty, an instinctive aristocracy of manners and taste; to be the son of Adam Weir
and Jean Rutherford.

  2. Kirstie

