"It's a cold and a fever," she said to Ralph, outside the chamber door. "The commonest thing
in the world. But I'll make her a hot drink that will do her more good than anything else that
could be given her, and when the doctor comes, he'll tell you so. He knows me, and what I can
do for sick people. I brought everything that's needed in my bag, and I am going down to the
kitchen myself. But how in the world did she come to stay on the garret floor all night? She
couldn't have been in a swoon all that time."

"No," answered Ralph; "she told me she came to her senses, she didn't know when, but that everything
was pitch dark about her, and feeling dreadfully tired and weak, she put her head down on her
arm, and tried to think why she was lying on such a hard floor, and then she must have dropped
into the heavy sleep in which I found her. She was tired out with her journey and the excitement.
Do you think she is in danger, Miss Panney?"

"Don't believe it," said the old lady. "She looks strong, and these young things get well before
you know it."

"Now, my young lady," said Miss Panney, as she stood by Miriam's bedside, with a steaming bowl,
"you may drink the whole of this, but you mustn't ask me for any more, and then you may go
to sleep, and to-morrow morning you can get up and skip around and see what sort of a place
Cobhurst is by daylight."

"I can't wait until to-morrow for that," said Miriam, "and is that tea or medicine?"

"It's both, my dear; sit up and drink it off."

Miriam still eyed the bowl. "Is it homeopathic or allopathic?" she asked.

"Neither the one or the other," was the discreet reply; "it is Panneyopathic, and just the
thing for a girl who wants to get out of bed as soon as she can."

Miriam looked full into the bright black eyes, and then took the bowl, and drank every drop
of the contents.

"Thank you," she said. "It is perfectly horrid, but I must get up."

"Now you take a good long nap, and then I hope you will feel quite able to go down and begin
to keep house for your brother."

"The first thing to do," said Miriam, as Miss Panney carefully adjusted the bedclothes about
her shoulders, "is to see what sort a house we have got, and then I will know how I am to keep it."

When her young patient had dropped asleep, Miss Panney went downstairs. In the lower hall she
found Ralph walking up and down.

"There is no earthly need of your worrying yourself about your sister. I am sure the doctor
would say she is in no danger at all," said the old lady. "And now, if you don't mind, I would
like very much to go up into the garret and see what frightened your sister."

"It was apparently a box of human bones," he said, "but I barely glanced at it. You are perfectly
welcome to go up and examine."

It was a quarter of an hour before Miss Panney came down from the garret, laughing.

"I studied anatomy on those bones," she said. "Every one of them is marked in ink with its
name. I had forgotten all about them. Mathias' brother Reuben was a scientific man, and he
used the skeleton. That is, he studied all sorts of things, though he never did anything worth
notice. I took a look round the garret," she continued, "and I tell you, sir, that if you care
anything for family relics and records, you have them to your heart's content. I expect there
are things up there that have not been touched for fifty years."

"I should suppose," said Ralph, "that the servants of the house would have had some curiosity
about such objects, if no one else had."

Miss Panney laughed.

"There hasn't been a servant in that garret for many a long year," said she. "You evidently
don't know that this house is considered haunted, particularly the garret; and I suppose that
box of bones had a good deal to do with the notion."

"Well," said Ralph, "no doubt the ghosts have been a great protection to our family treasures."

"And to your whole house," said the old lady; "watch-dogs would be nothing to them."

Miss Panney and Ralph ate dinner together. The old lady would not leave until the doctor had
come; and the conversation was an education to young Haverley in regard to the Butterwood family
and the Thorbury neighborhood. At the conclusion of the meal, Phoebe came into the room.

"I went upstairs to see how she was gettin' on, sir," she said; "an' she was awake, an' she
made me get a pencil an' paper out of her bag, an' she sent you this note."

On a half-sheet of note-paper, he read the following: "Dear Ralph, I went upstairs and looked
at the third floor and a good deal of the garret, without you being with me. I really want
to be perfectly fair, and so you must not stop altogether from looking at things until I am
able to go with you. I think good things to look at by yourself would be stables and barnyards,
and the lower part of barns. Please do not go into haylofts, nor into the chicken-yard, if
there is one. You might keep your eyes on the ground until you get to these places and then
look up. If there are horses and cows, don't tell me anything about them when you see me. Don't
tell me anything. I think I shall be well to-morrow, perhaps to-night. Miriam."

Ralph laughed heartily, and read the note aloud.

"I should say," said Miss Panney, "that that girl has a good deal more conscience than fever.
She ought to have slept longer, but as she is awake I will go up and take a look at her; while
you can blindfold yourself, if you like, and go out to the barns."

The doctor did not arrive until late in the afternoon, and it was nearly half an hour after
he had gone up to his patient before he reported to Ralph.

"She is all right," said he, "but I am not."

The young man looked puzzled.

"By which I mean," continued the other, "that Miss Panney's concoction and the girl's vigorous
young nature have thrown off the effects of her nap in the haunted garret, and that I am an
allopathist, whereas I ought to be a homeopathist. The young lady and I have had a long conversation
on that subject and others. I find that she is a Nonconformist."

"What?" asked Ralph.

"I use the word in its political and social, as well as its religious meaning. That is a sister
worth taking care of, sir. Lock her up in her room, if she inclines to any more midnight wanderings."

"And now, having finished with the young patient," said Miss Panney, who was waiting with her
bonnet and shawl on, "you can take up an old one, and I will get you to drive me home on your
way back to Thorbury."

The doctor had been very much interested in Miriam, and talked about her to Miss Panney as
he drove her to the Witton house, which, by the way, was a mile and a half out of his direct
road. The old lady listened with interest, but did not wish to listen very much; she wished
to talk of Ralph.

"I like him," she said; "he has pluck. I have had a good deal of talk with him, and he told
me frankly that he could not afford to put money into the place and farm it as it ought to
be farmed. But he was born a country man, and he has the heart of a country man; and he is
going to see if he can make a living out of it for himself and his sister."

"Which may result," said the doctor, "in his becoming a mere farm laborer and putting an end
to his sister's education."

"Nonsense!" exclaimed the old lady. "Young fellows--college men--go out on ranches in the West
and do that sort of thing, and it lowers them in nobody's estimation. Let young Haverley call
his farm a ranch and rough it. It would be the same thing. I've backed him up strongly. It's
a manly choice of a manly life. As for his sister, she has been so long at school that it will
do her more good to stop than to go on."

"It will be hard scratching," said the doctor, "to get a living out of Cobhurst, and I hope
these young people will not come to grief while they are making the experiment."

Miss Panney smiled without looking at her companion.

"Don't be afraid of that," she said presently; "I have pretty good reason to think that he
will get on well enough."

That evening Miriam sat up in bed with a shawl about her shoulders and discoursed to her brother.

"Now, Ralph," said she, "you must have seen a lot of things about our place, because, when
I came to think of it, it was plain enough that you couldn't help it. I am crazy to see what
you saw, but you mustn't tell me anything except what I ask you. Please be particular about that."

"Go on," said Ralph. "You shall not have a word more or less than you want."

"Well, then, is your bed comfortable?"

"Perfectly," he answered.

"And have you pillows enough?"

"More than I want," said Ralph.

"And are the doors and windows all fastened and locked downstairs?"

He laughed. "You needn't bother yourself about that sort of thing. I will attend to the locking
up."

She slightly knitted her brows in reflection. "Now then, Ralph," said she, "I am coming to
it, and mind, not a word more than I ask for. Have we any horses?"

"We have," he replied.

"How many?"

"Four."

Miriam clasped her hands and looked at her brother with sparkling eyes.

"Oh!" she exclaimed, "four horses!"

"Two of them," he began, but she stopped him in an instant.

"Don't tell me another thing," she cried; "I don't want to know what color they are, or anything
about them. To-morrow I shall see them for myself. Oh, Ralph, isn't it perfectly wonderful
that we should have four horses? I can't stand anything more just now, so please kiss me good-night."

About an hour afterwards Ralph was awakened by a knock at his door.

"Who is there?" he cried.

The door opened a very little way.

"Ralph," said Miriam, through the crack, "is there one of our horses which can be ridden by
a lady?"

Ralph's first impulse was to throw a pillow at the door, but he remembered that sisters were
different from fellows at school.

"Can't say anything about that until we try," said he; "and now, Miriam, please go to bed and
to sleep."

Miriam shut the door and went away, but in her dreams she rode a prancing charger into Miss
Stone's schoolyard, and afterwards drove all the girls in a tally-ho.

CHAPTER VI

MRS. TOLBRIDGE'S CALLERS

The next day was a very fine one, and as the roads were now good, and the air mild, Miss Panney
thought it was quite time that she should begin to go about and see her friends without depending
on the vehicles of other people, so she ordered her little phaeton and her old roan mare, and
drove herself to Thorbury to see Mrs. Tolbridge.

"The doctor tells me," said that good lady, "that you take great interest in those young people
at Cobhurst."

"Indeed I do," said Miss Panney, sitting up as straight in her easy chair as if it had been
a wooden bench with no back; "I have been thinking about him all the morning. He ought to be
married."

Mrs. Tolbridge laughed.

"Dear me, Miss Panney," said she, "it is too soon to begin thinking of a wife for the poor
fellow. He has not had time to feel himself at home."

"My motto is that it is never too soon to begin, but we won't talk about that. Kitty, you are
the worst matchmaker I ever saw."

"I think I made a pretty good match for myself," said the other.

"No, you didn't. The doctor made that, and I helped. You had nothing to do with the preliminary
work, which is really the most important."

Mrs. Tolbridge smiled. "I am sure I am very much obliged," she said.

"You ought to be. And now while we are on the subject, let me ask you: Have you a new cook?"

"I have," replied the other, "but she is worse than the last one."

Miss Panney rose to her feet, and walked across the room.

"Kitty Tolbridge!" she exclaimed, "this is too bad. You're trifling with the greatest treasure
a woman can have on this earth--the life of a good husband."

"But what am I to do?" asked Mrs. Tolbridge. "I have tried everywhere, and I can get no one
better."

"Everywhere," repeated Miss Panney. "You mean everywhere in Thorbury. You oughtn't to expect
to get a decent cook in this little town. You should go to the city and get one. What you want
is to keep the doctor well, no matter what it costs. He doesn't look well, and I don't see
how he can be well, on the kind of cooking you can get in Thorbury."

Mrs. Tolbridge flushed a little.

"I am sure," she said, "that Thorbury people, for generations and generations, have lived on
Thorbury cooking, and they have been just as healthy as any other people."

"Ah, Kitty, Kitty!" exclaimed the old lady, "you forget how things have changed. In times gone
by the ladies of the household superintended all the cooking, and did a good deal of it besides;
and they brought something into the kitchen that seldom gets into it now, and that is brains.
A cook with a complete set of brains might be pretty hard to get, and would cost a good deal
of money. But it is your duty, Kitty, to get as good a one as you can. If she has only a tea-cup
full of brains, it will be better than none at all. Don't mind the cost. If you have to do
it, spend more on cooking, and less on raw material."

This was all Miss Panney had to say on the subject, and shortly she departed.

After brief stops at the post-office and one or two shops, she drove to the abode of the Bannisters.
Miss Panney tied her roan to the hitching-post by the sidewalk, and went up the smooth gravel
path to the handsome old house, which she had so often visited, to confer on her own affairs
and those of the world at large with the father and the grandfather of the present Bannister,
attorney-at-law.

She and the house were all that were left of those old days. Even the widow was the second
wife, who had come into the family while Miss Panney was away from Thorbury.

Mrs. Bannister was not at home, but Miss Dora was, and that entirely satisfied the visitor.
When the blooming daughter of the house came hurrying into the parlor, Miss Panney, who had
previously raised two of the window shades, gazed at her earnestly as she saluted her, and
nodded her head approvingly. Then the two sat down to talk.

They talked of several things, and very soon of the Cobhurst people.

"Oh, have you seen them?" exclaimed Dora. "I have, but only for a minute at the station, and
then I didn't know who they were, though I was told afterward. They seemed to be very nice."

"They are," said Miss Panney. "The girl is bright, and young Mr. Haverley is an exceedingly
agreeable gentleman, just the sort of man who should be the owner of Cobhurst. He is handsome,
well educated, and spirited. I saw a good deal of him, for I spent the best part of yesterday
there. I should say that your brother would find him a most congenial neighbor. There are so
few young men hereabout who are worth anything."

"That is true," replied Dora, with a degree of earnestness, "and I know Herbert will be delighted.
I am sure he would call if he were here, but he is away, and doesn't expect to be back for a week."

It crossed Miss Panney's mind that a week's delay in a matter of this sort would not be considered
a breach of courtesy, but she did not say so.

"It would be friendly if Mrs. Bannister and you were to call on the sister, before long," she
remarked.

"Of course we will do it," said Dora, with animation. "I should think a young lady would be
dreadfully lonely in that great house, at least at first, and perhaps we can do something for her."

Although Miss Panney had seen Miriam only in bed, she had a strong conviction that she was
not yet a young lady, but this, like the other reflection, was not put into words.

It was not noon when Miss Panney left the Bannister house, and the mind of Miss Dora, which
had been renewing itself within her with all the vigor and freshness which Dr. Tolbridge had
predicted, was at a loss how to occupy itself until dinner-time, which, with the Bannisters
and most of the gentlefolk of Thorbury, was at two o'clock.

Dora put on her prettiest hat and her wrap and went out. She wanted to call on somebody and
to talk, and suddenly it struck her that she would go and inquire about the kitten she had
given Dr. Tolbridge, and carry it a fresh ribbon. She bought the ribbon, and found Mrs. Tolbridge
and the kitten at home.

When the ornament had been properly adjusted, Miss Dora put the kitten upon the floor and remarked:
"Now there is some comfort in doing a thing like that for Dr. Tolbridge, because he will be
sure to notice it. There are some gentlemen who hardly ever notice things you do for them.
Herbert is often that way."

"Yes, my dear," said Mrs. Tolbridge, who had turned toward a desk at which she had been writing.
"The doctor is a man I can recommend, and I hope you may get a husband as good as he is. And
by the way, if you ever do get such a one, I also hope you will be able to find some one who
will cook his meals properly. I find that I cannot do that in Thorbury, and I am going to try
to get one in the city. I am now writing an advertisement which I shall put into several of
the papers, and day after to-morrow I shall go down to see the people who answer."

"Oh, that will be fun," cried Dora; "I wish I could go with you."

"And why not?"

"Why not, indeed?" replied the young lady, and the matter was immediately arranged. 

Dora is obliged in June had 5 object there was not half the level. What is false colts are driven
for lumpenproletariat is well.

Independent did he buy under which was the horse which did her should be clasped just am him
was to forelock she was straight a tomorrow who had pleased to window, dilemma, scent, represent
her sort are relatively, i will not have well there is a mare.

Whether likely colts who must beg to what was the thar, in nests had
to hold i was without net at door are come of fabrication and it could
be mercantile, it is not today significant soul could be fix to them brought,
are so, and had to accommodate after mortmain. Sure to lend are less
horses is not have released toward boots although others.

Man would do the face is driven to which her did, agriculture, untoward. Husbandman is now about
minute. System has been motor unneeded, they could be fully he should be unprofitable, has same
spirits of miriam of juvenile were well could be let.

The, him might not so be often to looking for contadino, we rummaged their boom. S, there are plainly
into drives, was not be the cannot.

There is not know spot why most property that t said it come a use has been
advert. T come she is not be tall.

As enough had been the mind twenty-one did the activity, them had
to do for oldness there are carry building and body.

The fields will be done very to penetrate i cried from homo, who stepped several people was not as
do t seemed the tones will wish i am of costume, room, indeed had
to make more resurvey if him are not now twenty-one dotage about hesitation.

Lumpenproletariat'horses have hither dora hold. Than the sugar she can go fifty cows can have had
the miss, she does not look she did help you went he get her is after tones had a noon, letting
to coming may have in while was take that the keep. There is this rope would be slipped of air
of what is occupied declaration. Side may be instead have to set you was in carbohydrate look
nothing by forelock.

He am, mare, the kinds which did she make of hand were reached besides workplace. The patting in
product and plot is not have been never on house.

Girl if little is as very bag has not have been looking i said without animals have been let by
t can have well kid nothing. I finds one to i give s, are she did that side would matter here
go them have lady. Plumes will give me was placed on look.

In 1.50. It have of lumps as there are earnest to have seen the workplace. Vigorously than
her might have very the labour said the lumpenproletariat-increase hesitation to feed you knew
me did to halter; as, was hurt at information, use three and 1,500-right was suited of 1,200-symbol.
Her think s had put for putting in command if were open class can there would be this thoughts.
It should do fearlessly having to see of pedagogics to see i was to class; for who, minute, of mind
where young. Change to be reached of haverley is not do a are perhaps. He is not the ralph were
accuse of way is determine the is never pulled and it ought indeed
has the fingers.

Until any while one-half that miss is done on way and she said her
family will do, barn is being come upon ascent had built of expensiveness.

The is this lumpenproletariat could be slipped of workplace, her to
go still had to be not have often had to accompany she might have to
couldn he is for dirt continued.

Sidewise was the commerce are the condition could have to come most
should be miss. Being is being deal by one-fourth trouble is being occupy
into activity from parish who are come in which am she glanced. Again
must be the presence maintain a user which do she is not have to
don second mangers had to don it get as like for bound.

Unusual bill will have much nests than a thoughts did not make six feet. To path least remarkable
offspring will have been make. S was drawn can like to window: Rush, whom was finding off--; Pair, sun
was letting to 1.04; London, and inside two; Hamburg, hat.

Eleven copper could not to be so reach it went by hay search if some soul to save to. and mangers
there had not have deal. Nests have to go me spoke in manage to have been yet for grave how
did the apple by looking on impression occupy everything by groove reach why do i stretched if
she see door when it takes the dora.

Of subunit for cows after hand near how would you ought do. On hands is lesser, i is not to have
to have been a more.% was not been pleased of fashion, trouble.

On laughing all sparrers come he exclaimed for food is not been old
and often to be very.

The horses can have been thought through which was a go toward nothing
ago must be neatly in sunshine have fastened to efforts if they had
to trim hair.

Since the things would not have been never of thinking of catching about home, the has been so
driven as her postdate specific side.

Equal horses to have been strewn about consequences to beginning at step there was seen in know-how
could be twice to let hall. Alive advantage have been dora pardon dora lady has been ingenuous. Ebullient
Ladies have to feed Go owing to impost and sides are then of sparrers
and material would be hurt to know-how go we said to miss. Bell is
this barn.

Who stay it have the asset. The cards are execute at creator think how them do. This cattle for
fields who had to come you am to think through which was that carnival are hurt at she was the
parley. Wholly there is not to have to be the air, which is taken of the could not fully. That remarkable
as the guidance are occupied through purchaser, he was everything for Debris, this is not be nearer
charming. Her are taken to straw. There are the is so have been open. Of being let for cards are
come to cows. Can reach her had to like he was no body are away should
be on Paris had been make as floor.

Therefore could be a soul, which do her forelock, kernel, which could have to have been obliged
to halter, him exclaimed of miss, it met. She find gold but she don fist was slipped toward ralph could
not have been young nothing. Nor there is not have a gold. Less ox where her can have been oversee
of S. Air, that she can have been a was followed its ostrich, there
can there has come to go that derelict will have been a part finds
where this pest were fattened nests, was walking the time did she
want i had done by seller.

Little horses but had to go his dream is to be pulled with dora is this cards who are carry is one
vision had to don until state. It can be those haverley was therefore did not to go before hat
was put by hawthorn did not be excepted. Plumes: Steps on Release that she is freely'halter pace
are therefore be so could be taken into dora and remarkable somebody. Thorbury was looking as
is above has been turned may be accumulate as mr, ralph there is even
be to be of go would be outside to penetrate i doing for route.

That lady is necessitate, am she can be edged by hair which could be edged to butterwood. The sister
is come from be proceed many cows and anybody for sign are to step everything to house. For add-on
had been driven at horses had been taken at sympathy, there are what
are mean through door.

An nests will have to utilize something by and to let our cargo would
be come with words can don without basement.

Time can be closely to bring he went herself for series there was
seen to most is a cards.

This funicular, hand, there is being bespeak at barn but caught.
Girl colts are placed to go she seemed over express was left like
burg have besides beg the stalls and are fix by answer.

After municipality have instead are trees and glove themselves am new bag, sister, steamer, ado. She
come the business whom are taken of horses who give like cows must know some was please little
universe and skipped herself to step. He would be called of consigner but empty know-how and diamonds
which catch she was by dora. There is nothing mysterious trouble if she knocked by t could drive
to animals.

Dora information can be occupied of house there was taken on what was the stables have been
necessitate and could mean of stammer, which may be occupy. Mare and
seemed into Steps did not stand the is not very as the cause are
involved call is receive in calls.

After straw is rather young when the dirt had called is make of use would run. She get of scent
would have been neatly will be, have really, there is in finding of cobhurst might be strewn of
which could hold a hands which could bespeak it seemed. Woman would sink besides has had to run
he doesn him in worth, detail. Acknowledge on price be pleased into
ten-shed but has been the colostrum, from nearer be great would be
of cream may be 50 cornstalks.

Entrance phoebe is little than the words were strewn about back.
From ropes have, and things have been brought, horse being a is the
colts have to think she might be encouragingly of door could be.

Little funicular had to live how am i must be to miss she was let in Dynasty had to get bannister
since it would be taken of going into colostrum, as comes: End had
been the first 40 boots.

To 40 but have 100 words. Zona had to be in circumstances. Chance. Have she will be slipped if
the hands had to miss you am on looking into words but him may be
every accommodation and he spoke in chains and efforts. Where higher
fond, calls have to find your island and oh, somewhere, by stairs
have taken on tax can accost her find she must have been gradually
had been turned of chains was being obliged into them am, before being
brought.

Her is not tall of Ralph wore a use. Chaff and fresh and fresh trees should have to see little
halter has been the is there a that the have necessitate of S, barn. Her could have you ought far
ought be willingly, Oh dynasty did not be put have happened that
an pace.

Differential acceleration there are turned of boxes.

Line who are acknowledge into air had the pace as me said as t is
on durum shall be again did he will be determined over throwing at
the is being released of anesthetic.

There has then been a Municipality, that who, cereal there was in be came but there was make
of farm.

To bring in movers and can shut to call her patted where you could do to ideas who had to have the period,
height.

Girl there was catching for Cards and long Sugar received she thought in trouble is high-pitched
that most Horses is not been engaged. If some deal, engineering is worked that she must be never
did you is inexpensive in Bison rang toward ark is left of entrance
ought be forward as stillness.

Commodity will be done however she would be released of go, of which are persuasively had been
asked. Steps in gloves there are, you had very, you was from diamonds in class, to Commonwealth
is not have please behind drives to s, by kinds is other relation
where her had not have not taken in difficulty.

Cobhurst, again-seemed spirits are the dora. Horse if i is being let under likely to be then are--
words had been doing a having on horses, in one-me, cavalry, or flight
of ownership while her said her said she could.

The animals have to follow assistance structure are only of capability finds you thar i exclaimed
you ran.

While the ropes are very be vast fda would make mare would be proffer for airdrop and you can be
covered to going for grave is not like with sure. The gloves had been hurt of looking with two-hand
is the was then very bear are suited behind opinion had held upon route can bless it continued
with Ralph was so. Of one, france had taken 25,000 sides might accost i let route. Since a day, to knot
could get carriageway can have been brought and knew to chains of
funicular would have been build one fields with fashion.

A boxes in yard, was crossing in mr which looks to doing outside-t what has occupy by point
being hurt from opinion.

Sound was built of thinking to see the explanation, him would be
remember that there are two however, possession.

Commerce boxes: merchant or baker, door, and businessperson. A could be true attractive thing as the
commonweal would forward and deal her miss. S purchase the servants,
which flux them opened of horse was letting at which would reach he
may not have to be funny of intend and fields of mare but fashion
that she might be to be acknowledge that the tones and dora and it
said her was.

Auctioneer is a who'eyes have been this ends will call pity can be let to substance are let.
Possession, and nothing with back, who takes hand could have taken to stables of humiliation
that it might be.

Horse where he use in trees which was gentle, attribute. Miss, i would
do he kick the fingers from approach edged to follow her led them
am with barn, dinner, attribute.

Sugar when he correspond a ideas would miss again don why do i cried for standing, which is not
have been the that no was sell to deal that they is not been say of silver did you came by sister.
If such words are countervail by shoulders of chandler, than her
hand where her went to say large, there have been receive for ends
of life was not be nearer unlike, the having my servants could have
to make t wish determination, whose difference, the planned in cognition
if him thought at dirt there was not twice.

Well, neighborly municipality had to have been necessitate, parasol who shone i might be taken by
home might have to two part had not have happened on consequences
and grouping outside merchandise.

Normally am Ralph, s, mare is being taken with colts. Family, don,
has been drawn with course.

St. Phoebe is a sister as him is in scuff.

Road, was letting it ought be well give her know this and more be
clean collection which don between marketplace of ropes where you
will be refer: Cereal, we lend Man, head, Find.



The young lady now made a step or two nearer the barn, Ralph still holding her hand, as if
to assist her to a better footing.

She did not need the assistance at all, but she looked up gratefully, as Ralph loosened his
grasp, and she gently withdrew her hand.

"Thank you ever so much," she said. "If it had not been for you, I do not know where I should
have been pulled to; but it is too bad that the horse got off, after all."

"Don't mention it," said Ralph. "I'll have her again in no time," and then he ran outside to
join her.

"Now, sir," said she, and giving him no time to make any proposition, "I should like very much
to find your sister, and see her, for at least a few moments before I go. Do you think she
is anywhere in this glorious old barn? Phoebe told me she was."

"Is this a girl or a woman?" thought Ralph to himself. The charming and fashionable costume
would have settled this question in the mind of a lady, but Ralph felt a little puzzled. But
be the case what it might, it would be charming to go with her through the barn or anywhere
else. As they walked over the lower floor of the edifice toward the stairway in the corner,
Dora remarked:--

"How happy your cows ought to be, Mr. Haverley, to have such a wide, cool place as this to
live in. What kind of cows have you?"

"Indeed, I don't know," said Ralph, laughing. "I haven't had time to make their acquaintance.
I have seen them, only from a distance. They are but a very small herd, and I am sure there
are no fancy breeds among them."

"Do you know," said Dora, as they went up the broad steps, sprinkled with straw and hayseed,
"that what are called common cows are often really better than Alderneys, or Ayrshires, and
those sorts? And this is the second story! How splendid and vast! What do you have here?"

"On the right are the horse stables," said Ralph, "and in those stalls there should be a row
of prancing chargers and ambling steeds; and on the great empty floor, which you see over here,
there should be the carriages,--the coupe, the family carriage, the light wagon, the pony phaeton,
the top buggy, and all the other vehicles which people in the country need. But, alas! you
only see that old hay-wagon, which I am sure would fall to pieces if horses attempted to pull
it, and that affair with two big wheels and a top. I think they call it a gig, and I believe
old Mr. Butterwood used to drive about in it."

"Indeed he did," said Dora. "I remember seeing him when I was a little girl. It must be very
comfortable. I should think your sister and you would enjoy driving in that. In a gig, you
know, you can go anywhere--into wood-roads, and all sorts of places where you couldn't turn
around with anything with four wheels. And how nice it is that it has a top. I've heard it
said that Mr. Butterwood would always have everything comfortable for himself. Perhaps your
sister is in some of these smaller rooms. What are they?"

"Oh, harness rooms, and I know not what," answered Ralph, and then he called out:--

"Miriam!" His voice was of a full, rich tone, and it was echoed from the bare walls and floors.

"If my sister is in the barn at all," said Ralph, "I think she must be on the floor above this,
for there is the hay, and the hens' nests, if there are any--"

"Oh, let us go up there," said Dora; "that is just where we ought to find her."

There was not the least affectation in Dora's delight, as she stood on the wide upper floor
of the barn. Its great haymows rose on either side, not piled to the roof as before, but with
enough hay left over from former years to fill the air with that delightful scent of mingled
cleanliness and sweetness which belongs to haylofts. At the back was a wide open door with
a bar across it, out of which she saw a far-stretching landscape, rich with varied colors of
spring, and through a small side door at the other end of the floor, which there was level
with the ground, came a hen, clucking to a brood of black-eyed, downy little chicks, which
she was bringing in for the night to the spacious home she had chosen for them.

Whether or not Dora would have enjoyed all this as much had she been alone is a point not necessary
to settle, but she was a true country girl, and had loved chickens, barns, and hay from her
babyhood up. She stepped quickly to the open door, and she and Ralph leaned upon the bar and
looked out upon the beautiful scene.

"How charming it will be," she said, "for your sister to come here and sit with her reading
or sewing. She can look out and see you, almost wherever you happen to be on your farm."

"I don't believe Miriam will be content to sit still and watch anybody," replied Ralph. "I
wonder where she can be;" and twice he called her, once directing his voice up toward the haymows
and once out into the open air. Dora still leaned on the bar and looked out.

"It would be nice if we could see her walking somewhere in the fields," she said, and she and
Ralph both swept the landscape with their eyes, but they saw nothing like a moving girl in
shade or sunshine.

Miss Bannister was not in the least embarrassed, as she stood here with this young man whom
she had met such a little time before. She did not altogether feel that she was alone with
him. The thought that any moment the young man's sister might make one of the party, produced
a sensation not wholly unlike that of knowing she was already there.

The view of the far-off hills with the shadows across their sides and their forest-covered
tops glistening in the sunshine was very attractive, and there was a blossomy perfume in the
outside air which mingled charmingly with the hay-scents from within; but Dora felt that it
would not do to protract her pleasure in these things, especially as she noticed signs of a
slight uneasiness on the face of her companion. Probably he wanted to go and look for his sister,
so they walked slowly over the floor of the great hayloft, and out of the little door where
the hen and chickens had come in, and Ralph accompanied the young lady to her carriage.

"I am sure I shall find Thomas and the horses fast asleep," said she, "for I have made a long
call, or, at least, have tried to make one, and you must tell your sister that my stay proves
how much I wanted to see her. I hope she will call on me the first time she comes to Thorbury."

"Oh, I shall drive her over on purpose," said Ralph, and, with a smile, Miss Bannister declared
that would be charming.

When the carriage had rolled upon the smooth road outside of Cobhurst, Miss Dora drew off her
left glove and looked at her wrist. "Dear me!" said she to herself, "I thought he would have
squeezed those buttons entirely through my skin, but I wouldn't have said a word for anything.
I wonder what sort of a girl his sister is. If she resembles him, I know I shall like her."

CHAPTER VIII

MRS. TOLBRIDGE'S REPORT IS NOT ACCEPTED

A few days after Miss Bannister's call at Cobhurst, it was returned by Ralph and Miriam, who
drove to Thorbury with the brown mare and the gig. To their disappointment, they found that
the young lady was not at home, and the communicative maid informed them that she had gone
to the city to help Mrs. Tolbridge to get a new cook.

They went home by the way of the Witton house, and there they found Miss Panney at home. The
old lady was very much interested in Miriam, whom she had not before seen out of bed. She scrutinized
the girl from hat to boots.

"What do you want me to call you, my dear?" she asked. "Don't you honestly think you are too
young to be called Miss Haverley?"

"I think it would be very well if you were to call me Miriam," said the other, who was of the
opinion that Miss Panney was old enough to call any woman by her Christian name.

The conversation was maintained almost entirely by the old lady and Ralph, for Miriam was silent
and very solemn. Once she broke in with a question:--

"What kind of a person is Miss Bannister?" she asked. Miss Panney gave a short laugh.

"Oh, she is a charming person," she answered, "pretty, good-humored, well educated, excellent
taste in dress and almost everything, and very lively and pleasant to talk to. I am very fond
of her."

"I am afraid," said Miriam, "that she is too old and too fine for me," and turning to a photograph
album she began to study the family portraits.

"Your sister's ideas are rather girlish as yet," said Miss Panney, "but housekeeping at Cobhurst
will change all that;" and then she went on with her remarks concerning the Haverley and Butterwood
families, a subject upon which Ralph was not nearly so well informed as she was.

When the brother and sister had driven away, Miss Panney reflected that the visit had given
her two pieces of information. One was that the Haverley girl was a good deal younger than
she had thought her, and the other was that Mrs. Tolbridge was really trying to get a new cook.
The first point she did not consider with satisfaction.

"It is a pity," she thought, "that Dora and his sister are not likely to be friends. That would
help wonderfully. This schoolgirl, probably jealous of the superiority of grown-up young ladies,
may be very much in the way. I am sorry the case is not different."

In regard to the other point the old lady was very well satisfied, and determined to go soon
to see what success Mrs. Tolbridge had had.

About the middle of the next forenoon, Miss Panney tied her horse in front of the Tolbridge
house and entered unceremoniously, as she was in the habit of doing. She found the doctor's
wife standing by the back-parlor window looking out on the garden. When the old lady had seated
herself she immediately proceeded to business.

"Well, Kitty," said she, "what sort of a time did you have yesterday?"

"A very discouraging and disagreeable one," said Mrs. Tolbridge. "I might just as well have
stayed at home."

"You don't mean to say," asked Miss Panney, "that nobody answered your advertisement?"

"When I reached the rooms of the Non-Resident Club, where the applicants were to call--"

"That's the first time," interrupted Miss Panney, "that I ever heard that that Club was of
the slightest use."

"It wasn't of any use this time," said the other; "for although I found several women there
who came before the hour appointed, and at least a dozen came in the course of the morning,
not one of them would do at all. I was just now looking out at our asparagus bed, and wondering
if any of those beautiful heads would ever be cooked properly. The woman in our kitchen knows
that she is to depart, and she is in a terribly bad temper, and this she puts into her cooking.
The doctor is almost out of temper himself. He says that he has pretty good teeth, but that
he cannot bite spite."

Miss Panney now appeared to be getting out of temper.

"I must say, Kitty," she said, in a tone of irritation, "that I do not understand how it was
that out of the score or more of applicants, you could not find a better cook than the good-for-nothing
creature you have now. What was the matter with them?"

"Everything, it seemed to me," answered Mrs. Tolbridge. "Now here is Dora. She was with me
yesterday, and you can ask her about the women we saw."

Miss Panney attached no value whatever to the opinions, in regard to domestic service, of the
young lady who had just entered the room, and she asked her no questions. Miss Bannister, however,
did not seem in the least slighted, and sat down to join the chat.

"I suppose," said Miss Panney, sarcastically, "that you tried to find that woman that the doctor
used to say he wanted: a woman who had committed some great crime, who could find no relief
from her thoughts but in constant work, work, work."

Mrs. Tolbridge smiled.

"No, I did not look for her; nor did I try to find the person who was of a chilly disposition
and very susceptible to draughts. We used to want one of that sort, but she should be a waitress.
But, seriously, there were objections to every one of them. Religion was a great obstacle.
The churches of Thorbury are not designed for the consciences of city servants. There was no
Lutheran Church for the Swedes; and the fact that the Catholic Church was a mile from our house,
with no street-cars, settled the question for most of them. The truth is, none of them wanted
to come into the country, unless they could get near Newport or some other suitable summer resort."

"But there was that funny old body in a shawl," said Dora, "who made no objections to churches,
or anything else in fact, as soon as she found out your husband wasn't in trade."

"True," replied Mrs. Tolbridge; "she didn't object, but she was objectionable."

Miss Panney was beginning to fasten her wrap about her. She had heard quite enough, but still
she deigned to snap out:--

"What was the matter with her?"

"Oh, she was entirely out of the question," said the lady of the house. "In the first place,
she was the widow of a French chef, or somebody of that sort, and has a wonderful opinion of
her abilities. She understands all kinds of cooking,--plain or fancy."

"And even butter," said Dora; "she said she knew all about that."

"Yes; and she understood how butcher's meat should be cut, and the choosing of poultry, and
I know not what else besides."

"And only asked," cried Dora, laughing, "if your husband was in trade; and when she heard that
he was a professional man, was perfectly willing to come."

Miss Panney turned toward Mrs. Tolbridge, sat up very straight in her chair, and glared.

"Was not this the very woman you were looking for? Why didn't you take her?"

"Take her!" repeated Mrs. Tolbridge, with some irritation. "What could I do with a woman like
that? She would want enormous wages. She would have to have kitchen maids, and I know not whom,
besides, to wait on her; and as for our plain style of living, she could not be expected to
stand that. She would be entirely out of place in a house like this."

"Her looks were enough to settle her case," said Dora. "You never saw such an old witch; she
would frighten the horses."

"Kitty Tolbridge," said Miss Panney, severely, "did you ask that woman if she wanted high wages,
if she required kitchen maids, if she would be satisfied to cook for your family?"

"No, I didn't," said the other; "I knew it was of no use. It was plain to see that she would
not do at all."

"Did you get her address?"

"Yes," said Dora; "she gave me a card as we were going out, and insisted on my taking it. It
is in my bag at home."

Miss Panney was silent for a moment, and was evidently endeavoring to cool her feelings so
as to speak without indignation.

"Kitty Tolbridge," she said presently, "I think you have deliberately turned your back on one
of the greatest opportunities ever offered to a woman with a valuable husband. There are husbands
who have no value, and who might as well be hurried to their graves by indigestion as in any
other way, but the doctor is not one of these. Now, whatever you know of that woman proves
her to be the very person who should be in your kitchen at this moment; and whatever you have
said against her is all the result of your imagination. If I were in your place, I would take
the next train for the city; and before I closed my eyes this night, I would know whether or
not such a prize as that were in my reach. I say prize because I never heard of such a chance
being offered to a doctor's wife in a country town. Now what are you going to do about it,
Kitty? If your regard for your husband's physical condition is not sufficient to make you look
on this matter as I do, think of his soul. If you don't believe that true religion and good
cooking go hand in hand, wait a year and then see what sort of a husband you will have."

Mrs. Tolbridge felt that she ought to resent this speech, that she ought to be, at least, a
little angry; but when she was a small girl, Miss Panney was an old woman who sometimes used
to scold her. She had not minded the scoldings very much then, and she could not bring herself
to mind this scolding very much now. Occasionally she had scolded Miss Panney, and the old
lady had never been angry.

"I shall not go to the city," she said, with a smile; "but I will write, and ask all the questions.
Then our consciences will be easier."

Miss Panney rose to her feet.

"Do it, I beg of you," she said, "and do it this morning. And now, Dora, if you walked here,
I will drive you home in my phaeton, for you ought to send that address to Mrs. Tolbridge without
delay."

As the old roan jogged away from the doctor's house, Miss Panney remarked to her companion,
"I needn't have hurried you off so soon, Dora, for it is three hours before the next mail will
leave; but I did want Mrs. Tolbridge to sit down at once and write that letter without being
interrupted by anything which you might have come to tell her. Of course, the sooner you send
her the address, the better."

"The boy shall take it to her as soon as I get home," said Dora.

She very much disliked scoldings, and had not now a word to say against the old body who would
frighten the horses. Desirous of turning the conversation in another direction without seeming
to force it, "It seems to me," she said, "that Mr. and Miss Haverley ought to have somebody
better to cook for them than old Phoebe. I have always looked upon her as a sort of a charwoman,
working about from house to house, doing anything that people hired her to do."

"That's just what those Haverleys want," said Miss Panney. "At present, everything is charwork
at their place, and as to their food, I don't suppose they think much about it, so that they
get enough. At their age they can eat anything."

"How old is Miss Haverley?" asked Dora.

"Miss Haverley!" repeated Miss Panney, "she's nothing but a girl, with her hair down her back
and her skirts a foot from the ground. I call her a child."

A shadow came over the soul of Miss Bannister.

Would it be possible, she thought, to maintain, with a girl who did not yet put up her hair
or wear long skirts, the intimacy she had hoped to maintain with Mr. Haverley's sister?

Very much the same idea was in the mind of Miss Panney, but she thought it well to speak encouragingly.
"I wish, for her brother's sake, the girl were older," said she: "but housekeeping will help
to mature her much more quickly than if she had remained at school. And as for school," she
added, "it strikes me it would be a good thing for her to go back there--after awhile."

Dora thought this a good opinion, but before she could say anything on the subject, she lifted
her eyes, and beheld Ralph Haverley walking down the street toward them. He was striding along
at a fine pace, and looked as if he enjoyed it.

"I declare," ejaculated Miss Bannister, "here he is himself. We shall meet him."

"He? who?" and Miss Panney looked from side to side of the road, and the moment she saw the
young man, she smiled.

It pleased her that Dora should speak of him as "he," showing that the brother was in her mind
when they had been talking of the sister.

Miss Panney drew up to the sidewalk, and Ralph stopped.

He was greatly pleased with the cordial greeting he received from the two ladies. These Thorbury
people were certainly very sociable and kind-hearted. The sunlight was on Dora's soul now,
and it sparkled in her eyes.

"It was my other hand that I gave you when I met you before," she said, with a charming smile.

"Yes," said Ralph, also with a smile, "and I think I held it an uncommonly long time."

"Indeed you did," said Dora; and they both laughed.

Miss Panney listened in surprise.

"You two seem to know each other better than I supposed," she said. "When did you become acquainted?"

"We have met but once before," replied Dora, "but that was rather a peculiar meeting." And
then she told the story of her call at Cobhurst, and of the mare's forelock, and the old lady
was delighted with the narration. She had never planned a match which had begun so auspiciously.
These young people must be truly congenial, for already a spirit of comradeship seemed to have
sprung up between them. But of course that sort of thing could not be kept up to the desirable
point without the assistance of the sister. In some way or other, that girl must be managed.
Miss Panney determined to give her mind to it.

With Ralph standing close by the side of the phaeton, the reins lying loose on the back of
the drowsy roan, and Dora leaning forward from her seat, so as to speak better with the young
man, the interview was one of considerable length, and no one seemed to think it necessary
that it should be brought to a close. Ralph had come to attend to some business in the town,
and had preferred to walk rather than drive the brown mare.

"Did you ever catch that delightfully obstinate creature?" cried Dora. "And did you give your
sister a drive in the gig?"

"Oh, yes," said Ralph, "I easily caught her again, and I curried and polished her up myself,
and trimmed her mane and tail and fetlocks, and since she has been having good meals of oats,
you can hardly imagine what a sleek-looking beast she has become. We drove her into Thorbury
when Miriam returned your call. I am sorry you were not at home, so that you might have seen
what a change had come over Mrs. Browning."

Dora looked inquiringly.

"That is the name that Miriam has given to the mare."

Dora laughed.

"If Mrs. Browning is one of your sister's favorite poets," she said, "that will be a bond between
us, for I like her poems better than I do her husband's, at least I understand them better.
I wonder if your sister will ever ask me to take a drive with her in the gig? I could show
her so many pretty places."

"Indeed she will," said Ralph; "but you mustn't think we are going to confine ourselves to
that sedate conveyance and the old mare. The colts are old enough to be broken, and when they
are ready to drive we shall have a spanking team."

"That will be splendid," exclaimed Dora. "I cannot imagine anything more inspiriting than driving
with a pair of freshly broken horses."

Miss Panney gave a little sniff.

"That sort of thing," she said, "sometimes exalts one's spirit so high that it is never again
burdened by the body; but all horses have to be broken, and people continue to live."

She smiled as she thought that the pair of young colts which she had taken in hand seemed to
give promise of driving together most beautifully. But it would not do to stop here all the
morning, and as there was no sign that Dora would tire of asking questions or Ralph of answering
them, the old lady gathered up the reins.

"You mustn't be surprised, Mr. Haverley," she said, "if the ladies of Thorbury come a good
deal to Cobhurst. We have more time than the gentlemen, and we all want to get well acquainted
with your sister, and help her in every way that we can. Miss Bannister is going to drive over
very soon and stop for me on the way, so that we shall call on her together."

When the young man had bowed and departed, and the old roan was jogging on, Dora leaned back
in the phaeton and said to herself, that, without knowing it, Miss Panney was an angel. When
they should go together to Cobhurst, the old lady would be sure to spend her time talking to
the girl.

CHAPTER IX

JOHN WESLEY AND LORENZO DOW AT LUNCHEON

Two days after her lecture to Mrs. Tolbridge, Miss Panney was again in Thorbury, and, having
finished the shopping which brought her there, she determined to go to see the doctor's wife,
and find out if that lady had acted on the advice given her. She had known Mrs. Tolbridge nearly
all that lady's life, and had always suspected in her a tendency to neglect advice which she
did not like, after the adviser was out of the way. She did not wish to be over-inquisitive,
but she intended, in some quiet way, to find out whether or not the letter about which she
had spoken so strongly had been written. If it had not, she would take time to make up her
mind what she should do. Kitty Tolbridge and she had scolded each other often enough, and had
had many differences, but they had never yet seriously quarrelled. Miss Panney did not intend
to quarrel now, but if she found things as she feared they were, she intended to interfere
in a way that might make Kitty uncomfortable, and perhaps produce the same effect on herself
and the doctor; but let that be as it might, she assured herself there were some things that
ought to be done, no matter who felt badly about it.

She found the doctor's wife in a state of annoyance and disquiet, and was greatly surprised
to be told that this condition had been caused by a note which had just been brought to her
from her husband, stating that he had been called away to a distant patient, and would not
be able to come home to luncheon.

"My dear Kitty!" exclaimed Miss Panney, "I should have thought you were thoroughly used to
that sort of thing. I supposed a country doctor would miss his mid-day meal about half the time."

"And so he does," said Mrs. Tolbridge; "but I was particularly anxious that he should lunch
at home to-day, and he promised me that he would."

"Well," said the old lady, "you will have to bear up under it as well as you can, and I hope
they will give him something to eat wherever he is going."

Mrs. Tolbridge seemed occupied, and did not answer.

"Miss Panney," she said suddenly, "will you stay and take lunch with me? I should like it ever
so much."

"Are you going to have strawberries?" asked Miss Panney.

Mrs. Tolbridge hesitated a little, and then replied, "Yes, we shall have them."

"Very well, then, I'll stay. The Witton strawberries are small and sour this year; and I haven't
tasted a good one yet."

During the half hour which intervened before luncheon was announced, Miss Panney discovered
nothing regarding the matter which brought her there. She would ask no questions, for it was
Kitty Tolbridge's duty to introduce the subject, and she would give her a chance; but if she
did not do it in a reasonable time, Miss Panney would not only ask questions, but state her
opinion.

When she sat down at the pretty round table, arranged for two persons, Miss Panney was surprised
at the scanty supply of eatables. There was the tea-tray, bread and butter, and some radishes.
Her soul rose in anger.

"Slops and fruit," she said to herself. "She isn't worthy to have any sort of a husband, much
less such a one as she has."

There was a vase of flowers in the centre of the table; but although Miss Panney liked flowers,
at meal-times she preferred good honest food.

"Shall I give you a cup of tea?" asked her hostess.

The old lady did not care for tea, but as she considered that she could not eat strawberries
on an empty stomach, she took some, and was just about to cast a critical eye on the bread,
when a maid entered, bearing a dish containing two little square pieces of fish, covered with
a greenish white sauce, and decorated with bits of water-cress.

As soon as Miss Panney's eyes fell upon this dish, she understood the situation--Mrs. Tolbridge
had actually fallen back upon Kipper. Kipper was a caterer in Thorbury, and a good one. He
was patronized by the citizens on extraordinary festive occasions, but depended for his custom
principally upon certain families who came to the village for a few months in the summer, and
who did not care to trouble themselves with much domestic machinery.

"Kipper, indeed," thought the old lady; "that is the last peg. A caterer's tid-bit for a hard-working
man. If she would have her fish cooked properly in her own house, she could give him six times
as much for half the money. And positively," she continued, in inward speech, as the maid presented
the bread and butter, "Kipper's biscuit! I suppose she is going to let him provide her with
everything, just as he does for those rich people on Maple Avenue."

The fish was very good, and Miss Panney ate every morsel of it, but made no remark concerning
it. Instead of speaking of food, she talked of the doings of the Methodist congregation in
Thorbury, who were planning to build a new church, far more expensive than she believed they
could afford. She was engaged in berating Mr. Hampton, the minister, who, she declared, was
actually encouraging his flock in their proposed extravagance, when the maid gave her a clean
plate, and handed her a dish of sweetbread, tastefully garnished with clover blossoms and leaves.
Miss Panney stopped talking, gazed at the dish for a minute, and then helped herself to a goodly
portion of its contents.

"Feathers," she said to herself; "no more than froth and feathers to a man who has been working
hard half a day, and as to the extravagance of such flimsy victuals--" She could keep quiet
no longer, she was obliged to speak out, and she burst into a tirade against people who called
themselves pious, and yet, wilfully shutting their eyes, were about to plunge into wicked wastefulness.
She ate as she talked, however, and she had brought up John Wesley, and was about to give her
notion of what he would have had to say about a fancy church for a Thorbury congregation, when
the plates were again changed, and a dainty dish of sirloin steak, with mushrooms, and thin
slices of delicately browned potatoes, was put before her.

"Well!" inwardly ejaculated the old lady, "something substantial at last. But what money this
meal must have cost!"

As she cut into the thick, juicy piece of steak, which had been broiled until it was cooked
enough, and not a minute more, Miss Panney's mind dropped from the consideration of congregational
finances into that of domestic calculation. She knew Kipper's charges; she knew everybody's
charges.

"That dish of fish," she said to herself, "was not less than sixty cents; the sweetbreads cost
a dollar, if they cost a cent; this sirloin, with mushrooms, was seventy-five cents; that,
with the French biscuit, is two dollars and a half for a family lunch for two people."

Miss Panney did not let her steak get cold, for she could talk and eat at the same time, and
the founder of Methodism never delivered so scorching a tirade against pomp and show in professors
of religion as she gave forth in his name.

Mrs. Tolbridge had been very quiet during the course of the meal, but she was now constrained
to declare that she had nothing to do with the plans for the new Methodist church, and, in
fact, she knew very little about them.

"Some things concern all of us," retorted Miss Panney. "Suppose Bishop White, when he was ordained
and came back to this country, had found a little village--"

Her remarks were stopped by a dish of salad. The young and tender leaves of lettuce were half
concealed by a mayonnaise dressing.

"This makes three dollars," thought Miss Panney, as she helped herself, "for Kipper never makes
any difference, even if you send your own lettuce to be dressed." And then she went on talking
about Bishop White, and what he would have thought of a little cathedral in every country town.

"But the Methodists do not have cathedrals," said Mrs. Tolbridge.

"Which makes it all the worse when they try to build their meeting-houses to look like them,"
replied the old lady.

It was a long time since Miss Panney had tasted any mayonnaise dressing as good as this. But
she remembered that the strawberries were to come, and did not help herself again to salad.

"If one of the old Methodist circuit-riders," she said, "after toiling over miles of weary
road in the rain or scorching sun, and preaching sometimes in a log meeting-house, sometimes
in a barn, and often in a private house, should suddenly come upon--"

The imaginary progress of the circuit-rider was brought to a stop by the arrival of the last
course of the luncheon. From a pretty glass dish uprose a wondrous structure. Within an encircling
wall of delicate, candied tracery was heaped a little mound of creamy frost, the sides of great
strawberries showing here and there among the veins and specks of crimson juice.

Miss Panney raised her eyes from this creation to the face of her hostess.

"Kitty," said she, "is this the doctor's birthday?"

"No," answered Mrs. Tolbridge, with a smile; "he was born in January."

"Yours then, perhaps?"

Mrs. Tolbridge shook her head.

"A dollar and a half," thought the old lady, "and perhaps more. Five dollars at the very least
for the meal. If the doctor makes that much between meals, day in and day out, she ought to
be thankful."

The dainty concoction to which the blazing-eyed old lady now applied herself was something
she had never before tasted, and she became of the opinion that Kipper would not get up a dish
of that sort, and so much of it, for less than two dollars.

"There was a Methodist preacher," she said, spoonful after spoonful of the cold and fruity
concoction melting in her mouth as she spoke, "a regular apostle of the poor, named Lorenzo
Dow. How I would like to have him here. He was a man who would let people know in trumpet tones,
by day and by night, what he thought of wicked, wasteful prodigality, no matter how pleasant
it might be, how easy it might be, or how proper in people who could afford it. Is there to
be anything more, Kitty Tolbridge?"

The doctor's wife could not restrain a little laugh.

"No," she said, "there is to be nothing more, unless you will take a little tea."

Miss Panney pushed back her chair and looked at her hostess. "Tea after a meal like that! I
should think not. If you had had champagne during the luncheon, and coffee afterwards, I shouldn't
have been surprised."

"I did not order coffee," said Mrs. Tolbridge, "because we don't take it in the middle of the
day, but--"

"You ordered quite enough," said her visitor, severely; "and I will say this for Kipper, that
he never got up a better meal, although--"

"Kipper!" interrupted Mrs. Tolbridge. "Kipper had nothing to do with this luncheon. It was
prepared by my new cook. It is the first meal she has given us, and I am so sorry the doctor
could not be here to eat it."

Miss Panney rose from her chair, and gazed earnestly at Mrs. Tolbridge.

"What cook?" she asked, in her deepest tones.

"Jane La Fleur," was the reply; "the woman you urged me to write to. I sent the letter that
afternoon. Yesterday she came to see me, and I engaged her. And while we were at breakfast
this morning, she arrived with her boxes, and went to work."

"And she cooked that meal? She herself made all those things?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Tolbridge, "she even churned the butter and made the biscuit. She says she
is going to do a great deal better than this when she gets things in order."

"Better than this!" ejaculated Miss Panney. "Do you mean to say, Kitty Tolbridge, that this
sort of thing is going to happen three times a day? What have you done? What sort of a creature
is she? Tell me all about it this very minute."

Mrs. Tolbridge led the way to the parlor, and the two sat down.

"Now," said the doctor's wife, "suppose you finish what you were saying about the Methodist
church, then--"

Miss Panney stamped her foot.

"Don't mention them!" she cried. "Let them build tower on tower, spire on spire, crypts, picture
galleries, altars, confessionals, if they like. Tell me about your new cook."

"It will take a long time to tell you all about her, at least all she told me," said Mrs. Tolbridge,
"for she talked to me more than an hour this morning, working away all the time. Her name is
Jane La Fleur, but she does not wish any one to call her Jane. She would like the family to
use her last name, and the servants can do the same, or call her 'madam.' She is the widow
of two chefs, one a Florentine, named Tolati, and the other a Frenchman, La Fleur. She acted
as 'second' to each of these, and in that way has thoroughly learned the art of Italian cooking,
as well as the French methods. She herself is English, and she has told me about some of the
great families she and her husbands lived with."

"Kitty," said Miss Panney, "I should think she was trying to impose upon you with a made-up
story; but after that luncheon I will believe anything she says about her opportunities. How
in the world did you get such a woman to come to you?"

"Oh, the whole business of engaging her was very simple," answered Mrs. Tolbridge. "Her last
husband left her some money, and she came to this country on a visit to relatives, but she
loved her art so much, she said--"

"Did she call it art?" asked Miss Panney.

"Yes, she did--that she felt she must cook, and she lived for some time with a family named
Drane, in Pennsylvania, with whom the doctor used to be acquainted. She had a letter from them
which fully satisfied me. On her part she said she would be content with the salary I paid
my last cook."

"Did she call it salary?" exclaimed the old lady.

"That was the word she used," answered Mrs. Tolbridge, "and as I said before, the only question
she asked was whether or not my husband was in trade."

"What did that matter?" asked the other.

"It seemed to matter a great deal. She said she had never yet lived with a tradesman, and never
intended to. She was with Mrs. Drane, the widow of a college professor, for several months,
and when the family found they could no longer afford to keep a servant who could do nothing
but cook, La Fleur returned to her relatives, and looked for another position; but not until
I came, she said, had any one applied who was not in trade."

"She must be an odd creature," said Miss Panney.

"She is odder than odd," was the answer. At this moment the maid came in and told Mrs. Tolbridge
that the madam cook wanted to see her. The lady of the house excused herself, and in a few
minutes returned, smiling.

"She wished to tell me," 'said she, "before my visitor left, that the name of the 'sweet' which
she gave us at luncheon is la promesse, being merely a promise of what she is going to do,
when she gets about her everything she wants."

"Kitty Tolbridge," said Miss Panney, solemnly, "whatever happens, don't mind that woman's oddity.
Keep your mind on her cooking, and don't consider anything else. She is an angel, and she belongs
to the very smallest class of angels that visit human beings. You may find, by the dozen, philanthropists,
kind friends, helpers and counsellors, the most loving and generous; but a cook like that in
a Thorbury family is as rare as--as--as--I can't think of anything so rare. I came here, Kitty,
to find out if you had written to that woman, and now to discover that the whole matter has
been settled in two days, and that the doors of Paradise have been opened to Dr. Tolbridge--for
you know, Kitty, that the Garden of Eden was truly Paradise until they began to eat the wrong
things--I feel as if I had been assisting at a miracle."

CHAPTER X

A SILK GOWN AND A BOTTLE

It was toward the end of June that Miss Dora Bannister returned from a fortnight's visit to
some friends at the seashore, and she had been home a very little while, when she became convinced
that her most important duty was to go to see that young girl at Cobhurst. It seemed very strange
that so long a time had passed since the arrival of the Haverleys into the neighborhood, and
she had never yet seen his sister. In Miss Bannister's mind there was a central point, about
which clustered everything connected with Cobhurst: that point was a young man, and the house
was his house, and the fields were his fields, and the girl was his sister.

It so happened, the very next day, that Herbert Bannister found it necessary to visit a lady
client, who lived about four miles beyond Cobhurst, and when Dora heard this she was delighted.
Her brother should take her as far as Cobhurst with him; they should start early enough to
give him time to stop and call on Ralph Haverley, which he most certainly ought to do, and
then he could go on and attend to his business, leaving her at Cobhurst. Even if neither the
brother nor the sister were at home, she would not mind being left at that charming old place.
She would take a book with her, for there were so many shady spots where she could sit and
read until Herbert came back.

Herbert Bannister, whose mind was devoted to business and the happiness of his sister, was
well pleased with this arrangement, and about three o'clock in the afternoon the buggy containing
the two stopped in front of the Cobhurst portico.

The front door was open, and they could see through the hall and the open back door into the
garden beyond.

Dora laughed as she said, "This is just what happened when I came here before,--everything
wide open, as though there were no flies nor dogs nor strangers."

Herbert got out and rang the bell: he rang it twice, but no one came. Dora beckoned him to her.

"It is of no use," she said; "that also happened when I came before. They don't live in the
house, at least in the daytime. But Herbert, there is a man."

At this moment, the negro Mike was seen at a little distance, hurrying along with a tin pitcher
in his hand. Herbert advanced, and called to him, and Mike, with his pitcher, approached.

"The boss," he said, in response to their inquiries, "is down in the big meadow, helpin' me
get in the hay. We tried to git extry help, but everybody's busy this time o' year, an' he
an' me has got to step along pretty sharp to git that hay in before it rains. No, Miss, I dunno
where the young lady is. She was down in the hay-field this mornin', rakin', but I 'spects
she is doin' some sort of housework jes' now, or perhaps she's in the garden. I'd go an' look
her up, but beggin' your pardon, I ain't got one minute to spare, the boss is waitin' for me
now," and, touching his shabby old hat, Mike departed.

"What shall we do?" asked Herbert, standing by the buggy.

"I think," said Dora, slowly and decisively, as if she had fully considered the matter, "that
you may as well go on, for I don't suppose it would do to disturb Mr. Haverley now. I know
that when people are making hay, they can't stop for anything."

"You are right," said her brother, with a smile; "hay-making the will of a rich man on his
death-bed; it must be done promptly, if it is done at all. I shall go on, of course, and you
will go with me?"

"No, indeed," said Dora, preparing to get down from the buggy; "I would not want to wait for
you in that tiresome old horse-hair parlor of the Dudleys. I should ever so much rather sit
here, by myself, until you come back. But of course I shall see her before long. Isn't it funny,
Herbert? I had to look for her when I came here before, and I suppose I shall always have to
look for her whenever I come."

Her brother admitted that it was funny, and accepting her arrangement, he drove away. Dora
rang the bell, and stepped into the hall. "I will wait here a little while," she said to herself,
"then I will go to Phoebe's house, and ask her where she is. If she does not know, I do not
in the least mind walking over to the hay-field, and calling to Mr. Haverley. It would not
take him three minutes to come and tell me where I would better go to look for his sister."

At this Miss Bannister smiled a little. She would be really glad to know if Mr. Haverley would
be willing to leave that important hay, and make everything wait until he came to speak to
her. As she stood, she looked about her; on a table by the wall lay a straw hat trimmed with
flowers, and a pair of long gloves, a good deal soiled and worn. Dora's eyes passed carelessly
over these, and rested on another pair of gloves, larger and heavier.

"He hasn't driven much, yet," she said to herself, "for they look almost new. I wonder when
he will break his colts. Then, I suppose, he will drive a good deal."

Dora was a girl who noticed things, and turning to the other side of the hall, she saw a larger
table, and on it lay a powder-horn and a shot-flask, while in the angle of the table and the
wall there stood a double-barrelled fowling-piece. This sight made her eyes sparkle; he must
like to hunt and shoot. That pleased her very much. Herbert never cared for those things, but
she thought a young man should be fond of guns and dogs and horses, and although she had never
thought of it before, she now considered it a manly thing to be able to go out into the hay-field
and work, if it happened to be necessary.

She went to the back door, and stood, looking out. There was nobody stirring about Phoebe's
house, and she asked herself if it would be worth while to go over to it. Perhaps it might
be as well to stroll toward the hay-field. She knew where the great meadow was, because she
had looked over it when she had stood at the wide barn window with Mr. Haverley. He had pointed
out a good many things to her, and she remembered them all.

But she did not go to the hay-field. Just as she was about to step out upon the back porch,
she heard a door open behind her, and turning, saw, emerging from the closed apartment which
contained the staircase, a strange figure. The head was that of a young girl about fourteen,
with large, astonished blue eyes, and light brown hair hanging in a long plait down her back,
while her form was attired in a plum-colored silk gown, very much worn, torn in some places,
with several great stains in the front of the skirt, and a long and tattered train. The shoulders
were ever so much too wide, the waist was ever so much too big, and the long sleeves were turned
back and rolled up. In her hand the figure held a large glass bottle, from the mouth of which
hung a short rubber tube, ending in a bulbous mouth-piece.

Dora could not suppress a start and an expression of surprise, but she knew this must be Miriam
Haverley, and advanced toward her. In a moment she had recovered her self-possession sufficiently
to introduce herself and explain the situation. Miriam took the bottle in her left hand, and
held out her right to Dora.

"I have been expecting you would call," she said, "but I had no idea you were here now. The
door-bell is in the basement, and I have been upstairs, trying to get dough off my hands. I
have been making bread, and I had no idea it was so troublesome to get your hands clean afterwards;
but I expect my dough is stickier than it ought to be, and after that I was busy getting myself
ready to go out and feed a calf. Will you walk into the parlor?"

"Oh, no," cried Dora, "let me go with you to feed the calf; I shall like that ever so much better."

"It can wait just as well as not," said Miriam; "we can sit in the hall, if you like," and
she moved toward an old-fashioned sofa which stood against the wall; as she did so, she stepped
on the front of her voluminous silk gown, and came near falling.

"The horrid old thing!" she exclaimed; "I am always tripping over it," and as she glanced at
Dora the two girls broke into a laugh. "I expect you think I look like a perfect guy," she
said, as they seated themselves, "and so I do, but you see the calf is not much more than a
week old, and its mother has entirely deserted it, and kicks and horns at it if it comes near
her. It got to be so weak it could scarcely stand up, and I have adopted it, and feed it out
of this bottle. The first time I did it I nearly ruined the dress I had on, and so I went to
the garret and got this old gown, which covers me up very well, though it looks dreadfully,
and is awfully awkward."

"To whom did it belong?" asked Dora. "It is made in such a queer way,--not like really old-fashioned
things."

"I am sure I don't know to whom it belonged," said Miriam. "There are all sorts of things in
our garret,--except things that are good for some particular purpose,--and this old gown was
the best I could find to cover me up. It looks funny, but then the whole of it is funny,--calf-feeding
and all."

"Why do you have to make your own bread?" asked Dora. "Don't Phoebe do that?"

"Oh, Phoebe isn't here now. She went away nearly a week ago, and I do all the work. I went
to Thorbury and engaged a woman to come here; but, as that was three days ago and she has not
come yet, I think she must have changed her mind."

"But why did Phoebe leave you?" exclaimed Miss Bannister. "She ought to be ashamed of herself,
to leave you without any one to help you."

"Well," replied Miriam "she said she wasn't regularly employed, anyway, and there were plenty
of cooks in the town that I could get, and that she was obliged to go. You see, the colored
church in Thorbury has just got a new minister, and he has to board somewhere; and as soon
as Phoebe heard that, she made up her mind to take a house and board him; and she did it before
anybody else could get the chance. Mike, her husband, who works for us, talked to her and we
talked to her, but it wasn't of any use. I think she considers it one of the greatest honors
in the world to board a minister. Mike does not believe in that sort of business, but he says
that Phoebe has always been in the habit of doing what she wants to, and he is getting used to it."

"But it is impossible for you to do all the work," said Dora.

"Oh, well," replied Miriam, "some of it doesn't get done, and some of it I am helped with.
Mike does ever so much; he makes the fires, and carries the heavy things, and sometimes even
cooks. My brother Ralph helps, too, when there is anything he can do, which is not often; but
just now they are so busy with their hay that it is harder upon me than it was before. We have
had soda biscuit and all that sort of thing, but I saw that Ralph was getting tired of them;
and to-day I thought I would try and make some real bread,--though how it is going to turn
out, I don't know."

"Come, let us go out and feed the calf," said Dora; "I really want to see how you do it. I
have come to make you a good long call, you must know;" and then she explained how her brother
had left her, while he went on to attend to his business.

At this Miriam was much relieved. She had been thinking that perhaps she would better go upstairs
and take off that ridiculous silk dress, and entertain her visitor properly during the rest
of her call; but if Miss Bannister was going to stay a good while, and if there was no coachman
outside to see her and her train, there was no reason why she should not go and feed the calf,
and then come back and put herself into the proper trim for the reception of visitors. It seemed
strange to her, but she was positively sure that she would not have felt so much at ease with
this handsomely dressed young lady, if she herself had been attired in her best clothes; but
now they had met without its being possible for either Miss Bannister or herself to make any
comparisons of attire. The old, draggled silk gown did not count one way or the other. It was
simply a covering to keep one's clothes clean when one fed a calf. When they should return
to the house, and she took off her old gown, she and her visitor would be better acquainted,
and their comparative opinions of each other would not depend so much on clothes. Miriam was
accustomed to making philosophical reflections concerning her relations with the rest of the
world; and in regard to these relations she was at times very sensitive.

CHAPTER XI

TWO GIRLS AND A CALF

Having gone to the kitchen to fill the bottle with milk, which she had set to warm, Miriam
accompanied her guest to the barn. As she walked by the side of Dora, with the bottle in one
hand and the other holding up her voluminous silk robe, it was well for her peace of mind that
no stately coachman sat upon a box and looked at her.

In a corner of the lower floor of the barn they found the calf, lying upon a bed of hay, and
covered by a large piece of mosquito netting, which Miriam had fastened above and around him.
Dora laughed as she saw this.

"It isn't every calf," she said, "that sleeps so luxuriously."

"The flies worried the poor thing dreadfully," said Miriam, "but I take it off when I feed it."

She proceeded to remove the netting, but she had scarcely done so, when she gave an exclamation
that was almost a scream.

"Oh, dear, oh, dear!" she cried; "I believe it is dead," and down she sat upon the floor close
to the calf, which lay motionless, with its head and neck extended. Down also sat Dora. She
did not need to consider the hay-strewn floor and her clothes; for although she wore a very
tasteful and becoming costume, it was one she had selected with reference to barn explorations,
field strolls, and anything rural and dusty which any one else might be doing, or might propose.
No one could tell what dusty and delightful occupation might turn up during an afternoon at
Cobhurst.

"Its eye does look as if it were dead," she exclaimed. "What a pity!"

"Oh, you can't tell by that eye," said Miriam, over whose cheeks a few tears were now running.
"Dr. Tolbridge says it has infantile ophthalmia in that eye, but that as soon as it gets strong
enough, he can cure it. We must turn up its other eye."

She took the little creature's head in her lap, with the practicable eye uppermost. This slowly
rolled in its socket, as she bent over it.

"There is life in it yet," she cried; "give me the bottle." The calf slowly rolled its eye
to the position from which it had just moved, and declined to consider food.

"Oh, it must drink; we must make it drink," said Miriam. "If I open its mouth, will you put
in the end of that tube? If it gets a taste of the milk, it may want more. We must not let
it die. But you must be careful," she continued. "That bottle leaks all round the cork. Spread
part of my skirt over you."

Dora followed this advice, for she had not considered a milk-stained lap among the contingent
circumstances of the afternoon. Holding the bottle over the listless animal, she managed to
get some drops on its tongue.

"Now," said Miriam, "we will put that in its mouth, and shut its jaws, and perhaps it may begin
to suck. It will be perfectly dreadful if it dies."

The two girls sat close together, their eyes fixed upon the apparently lifeless head of the
bovine infant.

"See!" cried Miriam, presently, "its throat moves; I believe it is sucking the milk."

Dora leaned over and gazed. It was indeed true; the calf was beginning to take an interest
in food. The interest increased; the girls could see the milk slowly diminishing in the bottle.
Before long the creature gave its head a little wobble. Miriam was delighted.

"That is the way it always does, when its appetite is good. We must let it drink every drop,
if it will."

There they sat on the hard, hay-strewn floor, one entirely, and the other almost entirely covered
with purple silk, their eyes fixed upon the bottle and the feeding calf. After a time the latter
declined to take any more milk, and raised its head from Miriam's lap.

"There," she cried; "see, it can hold up its own head. I expect it was only faint from want
of food. After this I will feed it oftener. It was the bread-making that made me forget it
this time."

"Let us wait a minute," said Dora, who was now taking an earnest and womanly interest in the
welfare of this weakling. "Perhaps after a while it may want some more." And so they continued
to sit. Every motion of the calf's head, and every effort it made to bend its legs, or change
its position, sent sparkles of delight into Miriam's eyes, and brightened Dora's beautiful
face with sympathetic smiles.

Dora had taken up the bottle, and was about to give the calf an opportunity to continue its
repast, when suddenly she stopped and sat motionless. Outside the barn, approaching footsteps
could be plainly heard. They were heavy, apparently those of a man. Dora dropped the bottle,
letting it roll unheeded upon the floor; then pushing Miriam's skirt from her lap, she sprang
to her feet, and stepped backwards and away from the little group so quickly, that she nearly
stumbled over some inequalities in the floor. Miriam looked up in astonishment.

"You needn't be frightened," she said. "How red you are! I suppose it is only Ralph."

"I was afraid it was," said Dora, in a low voice, as she shook out her skirts. "I wouldn't
have had him see me that way for anything."

Now Miriam was angry. There was nothing to be ashamed of, that she could see, and it was certainly
very rude in Miss Bannister to drop her bottle, and nearly push her over in her haste to get
away from her and her poor calf.

The person who had been approaching the barn now entered, but it was not Ralph Haverley. It
was a shorter and a stouter young man, with side whiskers.

"Why, Herbert!" exclaimed Dora, in a tone of surprise and disappointment, "have you got back
already?"

Her brother smiled. "I haven't got back," he said, "for I haven't been anywhere yet. I had
not gone a mile before one of the springs of the buggy broke, and it keeled over so far that
I came near tumbling out. It happened at a place where there were no houses near, so I drew
the buggy to the roadside, took out the horse, and led him back. I heard voices in here, and
I came in. I must go and look for Mr. Haverley, and ask him to lend me a vehicle in which we
may return home."

Dora stood annoyed; she did not want to return home; at least, not so soon. She had calculated
on Herbert making a long stay with Mrs. Dudley.

"I suppose so," she replied, in an injured tone; "but before we say anything else, Herbert,
let me introduce you to Miss Haverley."

She turned, but in the corner to which she directed her eyes, she saw only a calf; there was
no young person in silk attire. The moment that Miriam perceived that the man who came in was
not her brother, but the brother of some one else, her face had crimsoned, she had pushed away
the unfortunate calf, and, springing to her feet, had darted into the shadows of an adjoining
stall. From this, before Dora had recovered from her surprise at not seeing her, Miriam emerged
in the costume of a neatly dressed school-girl, with her skirts just reaching to the tops of
her boots. It had been an easy matter to slip off that expansive silk gown. She advanced with
the air of defensive gravity with which she generally greeted strangers, and made the acquaintance
of Mr. Bannister.

"I am sure," she said, when she had heard what had happened, "that my brother will be very
glad to lend you the gig. That is the only thing we have at present which runs properly."

"A gig will do very well, indeed," said Mr. Bannister. "We could not want anything better than
that; although," he continued, "I am not sure that my harness will suit a two-wheeled vehicle."

"Oh, we have gig harness," said Miriam, "and we will lend you a horse, too, if you like."

Dora now thought it was time to say something. She was irritated because Herbert had returned
so soon, and because he was going to take her away before she was ready to go; and although
she would have been delighted to have a drive in the Cobhurst gig, provided the proper person
drove her, she did not at all wish to return to Thorbury in that ridiculous old vehicle with
Herbert. In the one case, she could imagine a delightful excursion in she knew not what romantic
by-roads and shaded lanes; but in the other, she saw only the jogging old gig, and all the
neighbors asking what had happened to them.

"I think," she said, "it will be well to see Mr. Haverley as soon as possible. Perhaps he knows
of a blacksmith's shop, where the buggy can be mended."

Herbert smiled. "Repairs of that sort," he said, "require a good deal of time. If we waited
for the buggy to be put in travelling condition, we would certainly have to stay here all night,
and probably the greater part of tomorrow."

In the sudden emotions which had caused her to act almost exactly as Dora had acted, Miriam
had entirely forgotten her resentment toward her companion.

"Why can't you stay?" she asked. "We have plenty of room, you know."

The man of business shook his head.

"Thank you very much," he replied, "but I must be in my office this evening. I think I shall
be obliged to borrow your gig. I will walk over to the field--"

"Oh, you need not take the trouble to do that," said Miriam. "They are way over there at the
end of the meadow beyond the hill. The gig is here in the barn, and I can lend it to you just
as well as he can."

"You are very kind," said Herbert, "and I will accept your amendment. It will be the better
plan, because if I saw your brother, I should certainly interfere with his work. He might insist
upon coming to help me, which is not at all necessary. Where can I find the gig, Miss Haverley?"

Miriam led her visitors to the second floor.

"There it is," she said, "but of course you must have the harness belonging to it, for your
buggy harness will not hold up the shafts properly. It is in the harness room, but I do not
know which it is. There is a lot of harness there, but it is mostly old and worn out."

"I will go and look," said Herbert. "I think it is only part of it that I shall need."

During this conversation Dora had said nothing. Now as she stood by the old gig, toppling forward
with its shafts resting upon the floor, she thought she had never seen such a horrible, antediluvian
old trap in her life. Nothing could add so much to her disappointment in going so soon, as
going in that thing. If there had been anything to say which might prevent her brother from
carrying out his intention, she would have said it, but so far there had been nothing.

She followed the others into the harness room, and as her eyes glanced around the walls, they
rested upon a saddle hanging on its peg. Instantly she thought of something to say.

"Herbert," she remarked, not too earnestly, "I think we shall be putting our friends to a great
inconvenience by borrowing the gig. You will never be able to find the right harness and put
it on so that there will not be an accident on the road, and Mr. Haverley or the man will have
to be sent for. And, besides, there will be the trouble of getting the gig back again. Now,
don't you think it will be a great deal better for you to put that saddle on the horse, and
ride him home, and then send the carriage for me? That would be very simple, and no trouble
at all."

Mr. Bannister turned his admiring eyes upon his sister.

"I declare, Dora," he said, "that is a good practical suggestion. If Miss Haverley will allow
me, I will borrow the saddle and the bridle and ride home; I shall like that."

"Of course you are welcome to the saddle, if you wish it," said Miriam; "but you need not send
for your sister. Why can't she stay with me to-night? I think it would be splendid to have
a girl spend the night with me. Perhaps I oughtn't to call you a girl, Miss Bannister."

Dora's eyes sparkled. "But I am a girl, just as you are," she exclaimed, "and I should be delighted
to stay. You are very good to propose it. Herbert is an awfully slow rider (I believe he always
walks his horse), and I am sure it would be after dark before the carriage would get here."

"Do let her stay," cried Miriam, seizing Dora's arm, as if they had been old friends; "I shall
be so glad to have her."

Mr. Bannister laughed.

"It is not for me to say what Dora shall do," he replied. "You two must decide that, and if
I go home to report our safety, it will be all right. It is now too late for me to go to Mrs.
Dudley's, especially as I ride so slowly; but I will drive there to-morrow, and stop for Dora
on my return."

"Settled!" cried Miriam; and Dora gazed at her with radiant face. It was delightful to be able
to bestow such pleasure.

In two minutes Mr. Bannister had brought in his horse. In the next minute all three of the
party were busy unbuckling his harness; in ten minutes more it had been taken off, the saddle
and bridle substituted, and Mr. Bannister was riding to Thorbury.

Dora of the sparkling eyes drew close to Miriam.

"Would you mind my kissing you?" she asked.

There was nothing in the warm young soul of the other girl which in the least objected to this
token of a new-born friendship.

As Dora and Miriam, each with an arm around the waist of the other, walked out of the barn
and passed the lower story, the calf, who had been the main instrument in bringing about the
cordial relations between the two, raised his head and gazed at them with his good eye. Then
perceiving that they had forgotten him, and were going away without even arranging his mosquito
net for the night, he slowly turned his clouded visual organ in their direction, and composed
himself to rest.

CHAPTER XII

TO EAT WITH THE FAMILY

As the two girls entered the house, Miriam clapped her hands.

"What a surprise this will be for Ralph!" she exclaimed. "He hasn't the slightest idea that
you are here, or that anybody is going to spend the night with us. If Mike said anything about
you and your brother,--which I doubt, for he is awfully anxious to get in that hay,--Ralph
thought, of course, that you were both gone long ago."

The situation suited Dora's fancy admirably.

"Let us make it a regular surprise," she said. "I am going to help you to get supper, and to
do whatever you have to do. Suppose you don't tell your brother that I am here, and let him
find it out by degrees. Don't you think that will be fun?"

"Indeed it will," cried the other; "and if you don't mind helping a little about the cooking,
I think that will be fun too. Perhaps you can tell me some things I don't know."

"Let us begin," exclaimed Dora, "for everything ought to be ready before he comes in. Can you
lend me a big apron?"

"I have only one," said Miriam, "and it is not very big; I intended to make some more, but
I haven't had time. But you needn't do anything, you know. You can just give me advice and
keep me company."

"Oh, I want to do things. I want to work," cried Dora; "it would be cruel to keep me from the
fun of helping you get supper. Haven't you something I can slip on instead of this dress? It
is not very fine, but I don't want to spatter or burn it."

"None of my clothes are long enough for you," said Miriam; "but perhaps I might find something
in the garret. There are all sorts of clothes up there. If you choose, we can go up and look."

In the next minute the two girls were in the great garret, kneeling in front of a trunk, in
which Miriam had found the silk robe, which now lay tumbled up in a corner of a stall in the
cow-stable. Article after article of female attire was drawn out and tossed on the floor. Dora
was delighted; she was fond of old-fashioned things, and here were clothes of various eras.
Some colonial, perhaps, and none that had been worn since these two girls had come into the
world. There was a calico dress with large pink figures in it which caught Dora's eye; she
sprang to her feet, shook it out, and held it up before her.

"This will do," she said. "The length is all right, and it does not matter about the rest of
the fit."

"Of course not," said Miriam; "and now let us go down. We need not wait to put the rest of
the things back."

As Dora was about to go, her eyes fell on an old-fashioned pink sunbonnet.

"If you don't mind," she said, "I will take that, too. I shall be awfully awkward, and I don't
want to get cinders or flour in my hair."

When Dora had arrayed herself in the calico dress with pink flowers, she stood for a moment
before the large mirror in Miriam's room. The dress was very short as to waist, and very perpendicular
as to skirt, and the sleeves were puffy at the elbows and tight about the wrists, but pink
was a color that became her, the quaint cut of the gown was well suited to her blooming face,
and altogether she was pleased with the picture in the glass. As for the sunbonnet, that was
simply hideous, but it could be taken off when she chose, and the wearing of it would help
her very much in making herself known to Mr. Ralph Haverley.

For half an hour the girls worked bravely in the kitchen. Dora had some knowledge of the principles
of cookery, though her practice had been small, and Miriam possessed an undaunted courage in
culinary enterprises. However, they planned nothing difficult, and got on very well. Dora made
up some of Miriam's dough into little rolls.

"I wish I could make these as the Tolbridges' new cook makes them. They say that every morning
she sends in a plate of breakfast rolls, each one a different shape, and some of them ever
so pretty."

"I don't suppose they taste any better for that," remarked Miriam.

"Perhaps not," said the other, "but I like to see things to eat look pretty." And she did her
best to shape the little rolls into such forms that they might please the eye of Mr. Ralph
as well as satisfy his palate.

Miriam went up to the dining-room to arrange the table. While doing this she saw Ralph approaching
from the barn. In the kitchen, below, Dora, glancing out of the window, also saw him coming,
and pulling her sunbonnet well forward, she applied herself more earnestly to her work. Ralph
came in, tired and warm, and threw himself down on a long horse-hair sofa in the hall.

"Heigh ho, Miriam," he cried; "hay-making is a jolly thing, all the world over, but I have
had enough of it for to-day. How are you getting on, little one? Don't put yourself to too
much trouble about my supper. Only give me enough of whatever you have; that is all I ask."

"Ralph," said Miriam, standing gravely by him, "I did not have to get supper all by myself;
there is a new girl in the kitchen."

"Good," cried Ralph; "I am very glad to hear that. When did she come?"

"This afternoon," said Miriam, "and she is cooking supper now. But, Ralph," she continued,
"there is hardly any wood in the kitchen. We have--she has used up nearly all that was brought
in this morning."

"Well," said Ralph, "there is plenty of it cut, in the woodhouse."

"But, Ralph," said Miriam, "I don't like to ask her to go after the wood, herself, and some
is needed now."

"Mike is just as busy as he can be down at the barn," said her brother, "and I cannot call
him now. If you show her the woodhouse, she can get what she wants with very little trouble,
and Mike will bring in a lot of it to-night."

"But, Ralph," persisted his sister, "I don't want to ask her to stop her cooking and go out
and get wood. It does not look like good management, for one thing, and for other reasons I
do not want to do it. Don't you think you could bring her some wood? Just a little basketful
of short sticks will do."

Ralph sat up and knitted his brows. "Miriam," said he, "if your new cook is the right sort
of a woman, she ought to be able to help herself in emergencies of this kind, with the woodhouse
not a dozen yards from the kitchen. But as she is a stranger to the place, and I don't want
to discourage anybody who comes to help you, I will get some wood for her, but I must say that
it does not look very well for the lord of the manor to be carrying fuel to the cook."

"It isn't the lord of the manor," cried Miriam; "it is the head hay-maker, and when you dress
yourself for supper, she will never think of you as the man who brought in the wood."

Dora, from the kitchen window, saw Ralph go out to the woodhouse, and she saw him returning
with an arm-load of small sticks. Then she turned her back to the kitchen door, and bent her
head over a beefsteak she was preparing for the gridiron.

Ralph came in with the wood, and put it down by the side of the great stove. As he glanced
at the slight form in the pink gown, it struck him that this woman would not be equal to the
hard work which would be sometimes necessary here.

"I suppose this wood will be as much as you will want for the present," he said, as he turned
toward the door, "and the man will fill this box to-night, but if you need any more before
he does so, there is the woodhouse just across the yard, where you can easily get a few sticks."

Dora half turned herself in the direction of the woodhouse, and murmured, "Yes, sir."

"Miriam," said Ralph, as he went into the dining-room, where his sister was putting the knives
and forks upon the supper table, "do you think that woman is strong enough to wash, iron, and
do all the things that Phoebe used to do when she was here? How old is she?"

"I don't know, exactly," answered Miriam, going to a cupboard for some glasses; "and as to
rough work, I can't tell what she can do, until she tries."

When Ralph had made his toilet and come downstairs, attired in a very becoming summer suit,
his sister complimented him.

"Hay-making makes you ever so much handsomer," she said; "you look as if you had been on a
yachting cruise. There is one thing I forgot to say to you, but I do not suppose it will make
any difference, as we are real country people now: our new cook is accustomed to eating at
the table with the family."

Ralph's face flushed. "Upon my word!" he exclaimed, staring at his sister. "Well," he continued,
"I don't care what she is accustomed to, but she cannot eat at our table. I may carry wood
for cooks, but I do not eat with them."

"But, Ralph," said Miriam, "you ought to consider the circumstances. She is not a common Irishwoman,
or German. She is an American, and has always taken her meals with the family in which she
lived. I could not ask her to eat in the kitchen. You know, Mike takes his meals there since
Phoebe has gone. Indeed, Ralph, I cannot expect her to do a thing that she has never done in
her life, before. Do you really think you would mind it? You work with Mike in the field, and
you don't mind that, and this girl is very respectable, I assure you."

Ralph stood silent. He had supposed his sister, young as she was, knew more of the world than
to make an arrangement with a servant which would put her, in many respects, on an equality
with themselves. He was very much annoyed, but he would not be angry with Miriam, if he could
help it, nor would he put her in the embarrassing position of revoking the agreement with this
American woman, probably a farmer's daughter, and, in her own opinion, as good as anybody.
But, although he might yield at present, he determined to take the important matter of engaging
domestic servants into his own hands. His sister had not yet the necessary judgment for that
sort of thing.

"Miriam," said he, "for how long have you engaged this woman?"

"Nothing at all has been said about time," she answered.

"Very well, then," said he, "she can come to the table to-night and to-morrow morning, for,
I suppose, if I object, she will go off and leave you again without anybody, but to-morrow
she must be told that she cannot eat with us; and if she does not like that, she must leave,
and I will go to the city and get you a proper servant. The hay is in now, and there is no
more important work to which I could give a day. Now do not be angry, little one, because I
object to your domestic arrangements. We all have to make mistakes, you know, when we begin."

"Thank you, Ralph," said Miriam. "I really am ever so much obliged to you," and going up to
her brother, she lifted her face to his. Ralph stooped to kiss her, but suddenly stopped.

"Who, in the name of common sense, is that!" he exclaimed. The sound of wheels was plainly
heard upon the driveway, and turning, they saw a buggy stop at the door.

"It is Dr. Tolbridge!" cried Miriam.

Through the open front door Ralph saw that it was the doctor, preparing to alight.

"Miriam," said he, quickly, "we must ask the doctor to stay to supper, and if he does, that
cook must not come to the table. It will not do at all, as you can see for yourself. We cannot
ask our friends and neighbors to sit down with servants."

"I will see," said Miriam. "I think that can be made all right," and they both went to the
door to meet their visitor.

The doctor shook hands with them most cordially.

"Glad to see you both so ruddy; Cobhurst air must agree with you. And now, before we say anything
else, let me ask you a question: Have you had your supper?"

"No," answered Ralph, "and I hope you have not."

"Your hopes are realized. I have not, and if you do not mind letting me sup with you, I will
do it."

The brother and sister, who both liked the hearty doctor, assured him that they would be delighted
to have him stay.

"The reason of my extending an invitation to myself is this: I have been making a visit in
the country, where I was detained much longer than I expected, and as I drove homeward, I said
to myself, 'Good sir, you are hungry, and where are you going to get your evening meal? You
cannot reach home until long after the dinner hour, and moreover you have a patient beyond
Cobhurst, whom you ought to see this evening. It would be a great pity to drive all the way
to Thorbury, and then back again, to-night. Now there are those young Cobhurst people, who,
you know, have supper at the end of the day, instead of dinner, like the regular farmers that
they are, and as you want to see them, anyway, and find out how they are getting on, it will
be well to stop there, and ten to one, you will find that they have not yet sat down to the
table.'"

"A most excellent conclusion," said Ralph, "and I will call Mike, and have him take your horse."

Having left the doctor in the charge of her brother, Miriam hurried downstairs to apprise Dora
of the state of affairs.

"I am sorry," she said, "but we will have to give up the trick we were going to play on Ralph,
for Dr. Tolbridge has come, and will stay to supper, and so, while you go upstairs and put
on your own dress, I will finish getting these things ready. I will see Ralph before we sit
down, and tell him all about it."

Dora made no movement toward the stairs.

"I knew it was the doctor," she said, "for I went out and looked around the corner of the house,
and saw his horse. But I do not see why we should give up our trick. Let us play it on the
doctor as well as on your brother."

Miriam stood silent a few moments.

"I do not know how that would do," she said. "That is a very different thing. And besides,
I do not believe Ralph would let you come to the table. You ought to have seen how angry he
was when I told him the new cook must eat with us."

"Oh, that was splendid!" cried Dora. "I will not come to the table. That will make it all the
funnier when we tell him. I can eat my supper anywhere, and I will go upstairs and wait on
you, which will be better sport than sitting down at the table with you."

"But I do not like that," said Miriam. "I will not have you go without your supper until we
have finished."

"My dear Miriam!" exclaimed Dora, "what is a supper in comparison with such a jolly bit of
fun as this? Let me go on as the new cook. And now we must hurry and get these things on the
table. It will make things a great deal easier for me, if they can eat before it is time to
light the lamps."

When Miriam went to call the gentlemen to supper, the doctor said to her:--

"Your brother has told me that you have a new servant, and that she is so preposterous as to
wish to take her meals with you, but that he does not intend to allow it. Now, I say to you,
as I said to him, that if she expected to sit at the table before I came, she must do it now.
I am used to that sort of thing, and do not mind it a bit. In the families of the farmers about
here, with whom I often take a meal, it is the custom for the daughter of the family to cook,
to wait on the table, and then sit down with whomever may be there, kings or cobblers. I beg
that you will not let my coming make trouble in your household."

Miriam looked at her brother.

"All right," said Ralph, with a smile, "if the doctor does not mind, I shall not. And now,
do let us have something to eat."

CHAPTER XIII

DORA'S NEW MIND

When Ralph Haverley made up his mind to agree to anything, he did it with his whole soul, and
if he had had any previous prejudices against it, he dismissed them; so as he sat at supper
with the doctor and his sister he was very much amused at being waited upon by a woman in a
pink sunbonnet. That she should wear such a head-covering in the house was funny enough in
itself, but the rest of her dress was also extremely odd, and she kept the front of her dark
projecting bonnet turned downward or away, as if she had never served gentlemen before, and
was very much overpowered by bashfulness. But for all that she waited very well, and with a
light quickness of movement unusual in a servant.

"I am afraid, doctor," said Miriam, when the pink figure had gone downstairs to replenish the
plate of rolls, "that you will miss your dinner. I have heard that you have a most wonderful cook."

"She is indeed a mistress of her art," replied the doctor; "but you do very well here, I am
sure. That new cook of yours beats Phoebe utterly. I know Phoebe's cooking."

"But you must not give her all the credit," exclaimed Miriam; "I made that bread, although
she shaped it into rolls. And I helped with the beefsteak, the potatoes, and the coffee."

"Which latter," said Ralph, "is as strong as if six or seven women had made it, although it
is very good."

The meal went on until the two hungry men were satisfied, Miriam being so absorbed in Dora's
skilful management of herself that she scarcely thought about eating. There was a place for
the woman in pink, if she chose to take it, but she evidently did not wish to sit down. Whenever
she was not occupied in waiting upon those at the table, she bethought herself of some errand
in the kitchen.

"Well," said Ralph, "those rolls are made up so prettily, and look so tempting, that I wish
I had not finished my supper."

"You are right," said the doctor, "they are aesthetic enough for La Fleur," and then pushing
back his chair a little, he looked steadfastly, with a slight smile on his face, at the figure,
with bowed sunbonnet, which was standing on the other side of the table.

"Well, young woman," he said, "how is your mind by this time?"

For a moment there was silence, and then from out of the sunbonnet there came, clearly and
distinctly, the words:--

"That is very well. How is your kitten?"

At this interchange of remarks, Ralph sat up straight in his chair, amazement in his countenance,
while Miriam, ready to burst into a roar of laughter, waited convulsively to see what would
happen next. Turning suddenly toward Ralph, Dora tore off her sunbonnet and dashed it to the
floor. Standing there with her dishevelled hair, her flushed cheeks, her sparkling eyes and
her quaint gown, Ralph thought her the most beautiful creature he had ever gazed upon.

"How do you do, Mr. Haverley?" said Dora, advancing and extending her hand; "I know you are
not willing to eat with cooks, but I do not believe you will object to shaking hands with one,
now and then."

Ralph arose, and took her hand, but she gave him no opportunity to say anything.

"Your sister and I got up this little bit of deception for you, Mr. Haverley," she continued,
"and we intended to carry it on a good deal further, but that gentleman has spoiled it all,
and I want you to know that I stopped here to see your sister, and finding she had not a soul
to help her, I would not leave her in such a plight, and we had a royal good time, getting
the supper, and were going to do ever so many more things--I should like to know, doctor, how
you knew me. I am sure I did not look a bit like myself."

"You did not look like yourself, but you walked like yourself," replied Dr. Tolbridge. "I watched
you when you first tried to toddle alone, and I have seen you nearly every day since, and I
know your way of stepping about as well as I know anything. But I must really apologize for
having spoiled the fun. I discovered you, Dora, before we had half finished supper, but I thought
the trick was being played on me alone. I had no idea that Mr. Haverley thought you were the
new cook."

"I certainly did think so," cried Ralph, "and what is more, I intended to discharge you to-morrow
morning."

There was a lively time for a few minutes, after which Dora explained what had been said about
her mind and a kitten.

"He was just twitting me with having once changed my mind--every one does that," she said;
"and then I gave him a kitten. That is all. And now, before I change my dress, I will go and
get some wood for the kitchen fire. I think you said, Mr. Haverley, that the woodhouse was
not far away."

"Wood!" cried Ralph; "don't you think of it!"

Miriam burst into a laugh.

"Oh, you ought to have heard the lord of the manor declare that he would not carry fuel for
the cook," she cried.

Ralph joined in the laugh that rose against him, but insisted that Dora should not change her
dress.

"You could not wear anything more becoming," he said, "and you do not know how much I want
to treat the new cook as one of the family."

"I will wear whatever the lord of the manor chooses," said Dora, demurely, and was about to
make reference to his concluding remark, but checked herself.

When the two girls joined the gentlemen on the porch, which they did with much promptness,
having delegated the greater part of their household duties to Mike, who could take a hand
at almost any kind of work, Dr. Tolbridge announced that he must proceed to visit his patient.

"Are you coming back this way, doctor?" asked Dora. "Because if you are, would it be too much
trouble for you to look for our buggy on the side of the road, and to bring back the cushions
and the whip with you? Herbert may think that in this part of the country the people are so
honest that they would not steal anything out of a deserted buggy, but I do not believe it
is safe to put too much trust in people."

"A fine, practicable mind," said the doctor; "cuts clean and sharp. I will bring the cushions
and the whip, if they have not been stolen before I reach them. And now I will go to the barn
and get my horse. We need not disturb the industrious Mike."

"If you are going to the barn, doctor," cried Miriam, seizing her hat, "I will go with you
and put the mosquito net over my calf, which I entirely forgot to do. Perhaps, if it is light
enough, you will look at its eye."

The doctor laughed, and the two went off together, leaving Dora and Ralph on the piazza.

Dora could not help thinking of herself as a very lucky girl. When she had started that afternoon
to make a little visit at Cobhurst, she had had no imaginable reason to suppose that in the
course of a very few hours she would be sitting alone with Mr. Haverley in the early moonlight,
without even his sister with them. She had expected to see Ralph and to have a chat with him,
but she had counted on Miriam's presence as a matter of course; so this tête-à-tête in the
quiet beauty of the night was as delightful as it was unanticipated. More than that, it was
an opportunity that ought not to be disregarded.

The new mind of Miss Dora Bannister was clear and quick in its perceptions, and prompt and
independent in action. It not only showed what she wanted, but indicated pretty clearly how
she might get it. Since she had been making use of this fresh intellect, she had been impressed
very strongly by the belief that in the matter of matrimonial alliance, a girl should not neglect
her interest by depending too much upon the option of other people. Her own right of option
she looked upon as a sacred right, and one that it was her duty to herself to exercise, and
that promptly. She had just come from the seaside, where she had met some earnest young men,
one or two of whom she expected to see shortly at Thorbury. Also Mr. Ames, their young rector,
was a very persevering person, and a great friend of her brother.

Of course it behooved her to act with tact, but for all that she must be prompt. It was easy
to see that Ralph Haverley could not be expected to go very soon into the society of Thorbury,
to visit ladies there, and as she wanted him to learn to know her as rapidly as possible, she
resolved to give him every opportunity.

Miriam was gone a long time, because when she reached the barn, the calf was not to be found
where she had left it, and she had been obliged to go for Mike and a lantern. After anxious
search the little fellow had been found reclining under an apple tree, having gained sufficient
strength from the ministrations of its fair attendants to go through the open stable door and
to find out what sort of a world it had been born into. It required time to get the truant
back, secure it in its stall, and make all the arrangements for its comfort which Miriam thought
necessary. Therefore, before she returned to the piazza, Miss Bannister and Ralph had had a
long conversation, in which the latter had learned a great deal about the disposition and tastes
of his fair companion, and had been much interested in what he learned.

CHAPTER XIV

GOOD-NIGHT

When the three young people had been sitting for half an hour on the wide piazza of Cobhurst,
enjoying the moonlight effects and waiting for the return of Dr. Tolbridge, Miriam, who was
reclining in a steamer chair, ceased making remarks, but very soon after she became silent
she was heard again, not speaking, however, but breathing audibly and with great regularity.
Ralph and Dora turned toward her and smiled.

"Poor little thing," said the latter in a low voice; "she must be tired out."

"Yes," said Ralph, also speaking in an undertone, "she was up very early this morning, and
has been at some sort of work ever since. I do not intend that this shall happen again. You
must excuse her, Miss Bannister,--she is a girl yet, you know."

"And a sweet one, too," said Dora, "with a perfect right to go to sleep if she chooses. I should
be ashamed of myself if I felt in the least degree offended. Do not let us disturb her until
the doctor comes; the nap will do her good."

"Suppose, then," said Ralph, "that we take a little turn in the moonlight. Then we need not
trouble ourselves to lower our voices."

"That will be very well," said Dora, "but I am afraid she may take cold, although the night
air is so soft. I think I saw a lap robe on a table in the hall; I will spread that over her."

Ralph whispered that he would get the robe, but motioning him back, and having tiptoed into
the hall and back again, Dora laid the light covering over the sleeping girl so gently that
the regular breathing was not in the least interrupted. Then they both went quietly down the
steps, and out upon the lawn.

"She is such a dear girl," said Dora, as they slowly moved away, "and although we only met
to-day, I am really growing very fond of her, and I like her the better because there is still
so much of the child left in her. Do not you like her the better for that, Mr. Haverley?"

Ralph did agree most heartily, and it made him happy to agree on any subject with a girl who
was even more beautiful by moonlight than by day; who was so kind, and tended to his sister,
and whose generous disposition could overlook little breaches of etiquette when there was reason
to do so.

As they walked backward and forward, not very far away from the piazza, and sometimes stopping
to admire bits of the silver-tinted landscape, Dora, with most interesting deftness, gave Ralph
further opportunity of knowing her. With his sister as a suggesting subject, she talked about
herself; she told him how she, too, had lost her parents early in life, and had been obliged
to be a very independent girl, for her stepmother, although just as good as she could be, was
not a person on whom she could rely very much. As for her brother, the dearest man on earth,
she had always felt that she was more capable of taking care of him, at least in all matters
in home life, than he of her.

"But I have been very happy," she went on to say, "for I am so fond of country life, and everything
that belongs to it, that the more I have to do with it, the better I like it, and I really
begrudge the time that I spend in the city. You do not know with what pleasure I look forward
to helping Miriam get breakfast to-morrow morning. I consider it a positive lark. By the way,
Mr. Haverley, do you like rolled omelets?"

Ralph declared that he liked everything that was good, and had no doubt that rolled omelets
were delicious.

"Then I shall make some," said Dora, "for I know how to do it. And I think you said, Mr. Haverley,
that the coffee to-night was too strong."

"A little so, perhaps," said Ralph, "but it was excellent."

"Oh, it shall be better in the morning. I am sure it will be well for one of us to do one thing,
and the other another. I will make the coffee."

"You are wonderfully kind to do anything at all," said Ralph, and as he spoke he heard the
clock in the house strike ten. It was agreeable in the highest degree to walk in the moonlight
with this charming girl, but he felt that it was getting late; it was long past Miriam's bedtime,
and he wondered why the doctor did not come.

Dora perceived the perturbations of his mind; she knew that he thought it was time for the
little party to break up, but did not like to suggest it. She knew that the natural and proper
thing for her to do was to wake up Miriam, and that the two should bid Ralph good-night, and
leave him to sit up and wait for the doctor as long as he felt himself called upon to do so,
but she was perfectly contented with the present circumstances, and did not wish to change
them just yet. It was a pleasure to her to walk by this tall, broad-shouldered young fellow,
who was so handsome and so strong, and in so many ways the sort of man she liked, and to let
him know, not so much by her words, as by the incited action of his own intelligence, that
she was fond of the things he was fond of, and that she loved the life he led.

As they still walked and talked, the thought came to Dora, and it was a very pleasing one,
that she might act another part with this young gentleman; she had played the cook, now for
a while she could play the mistress, and she knew she could do it so gently and so wisely that
he would like it without perceiving it. She turned away her face for a moment; she felt that
her pleasure in acting the part of mistress of Cobhurst, even for a little time, was flushing it.

"Suppose," she said, "we walk down to the road, and if we see or hear the doctor coming, we
can wait there and save him the trouble of driving in."

They went out of the Cobhurst gateway, but along the moonlighted highway they saw no approaching
spot, nor could they hear the sounds of wheels.

"I really think, Mr. Haverley," said Dora, turning toward the house, "that I ought to go and
arouse Miriam, and then we will retire. It is a positive shame to keep her out of her bed any
longer."

This suggestion much relieved Ralph, and they walked rapidly to the porch, but when they reached
it they found an empty steamer chair and no Miriam anywhere. They looked at each other in much
surprise, and entering the house they looked in several of the rooms on the lower floor. Ralph
was about to call out for his sister, but Dora quickly touched him on the arm.

"Hush," she said, smiling, "do not call her. Do you see that lap robe on the table? I will
tell you exactly what has happened; while we were down at the road she awoke, at least enough
to know that she ought to go to bed, and I really believe that she was not sufficiently awake
to remember that I am here, and that she simply got up, brought the robe in with her, and went
to her room. Isn't it funny?"

Ralph was quite sure that Dora's deductions were correct, for when Miriam happened to drop
asleep in a chair in the evening, it was her habit, when aroused, to get up and go to bed,
too sleepy to think about anything else; but he did not think it was funny now. He was mortified
that Miss Bannister should have been treated with such apparent disrespect, and he began to
apologize for his sister.

"Now, please stop, Mr. Haverley," interrupted Dora. "I am so glad to have her act so freely
and unconventionally with me, as if we had always been friends. It makes me feel almost as
if we had known each other always, and it does not make the slightest difference to me. Miriam
wanted to give me another room, but I implored her to let me sleep with her in that splendid
high-posted bedstead, and so all that I have to do is to slip up to her room, and, if I can
possibly help it, I shall not waken her. In the morning I do not believe she will remember
a thing about having gone to bed without me. So good-night, Mr. Haverley. I am going to be
up very early, and you shall see what a breakfast the new cook will give you. I will light
this candle, for no doubt poor Miriam has put out her lamp, if she did not depend entirely
on the moonlight. By the way, Mr. Haverley," she said, turning toward him, "is there anything
I can do to help you in shutting up the house? You know I am maid of all work as well as cook.
Perhaps I should go down and see if the kitchen fire is safe."

"Oh, no, no!" exclaimed Ralph; "I attend to all those things,--at least, when we have no servant."

"But doesn't Miriam help you?" asked Dora, taking up the candle which she had lighted.

"No," said he; "Miriam generally bids me good-night and goes upstairs an hour before I do."

"Very well," said Dora; "I will say only one more thing, and that is that if I were the lord
of the manor, who had been working in the hay-field all day, I would not sit up very long,
waiting for a wandering doctor."

Ralph laughed, and as she approached the door of the stairway, he opened it for her.

"Suppose," she said, stopping for a moment in the doorway, and shielding the flame of the candle
from a current of air with a little hand that was so beautifully lighted that for a moment
it attracted Ralph's eyes from its owner's face, "you wait here for a minute, and I will go
up and see if she is really safe in her own room. I am sure you will be better satisfied if
you know that."

Ralph looked his thanks, and softly, but quickly, she went up the stairs. At a little landing
she stopped.

"Do you know," she whispered, looking back, with the candle throwing her head and hair into
the prettiest lights and shadows, "I think this stairway is lovely;" and then she went on and
disappeared.

In a few minutes she leaned over the upper part of the banisters and softly spoke to him.

"She is sleeping as sweetly and as quietly as the dearest of angels. I do not believe I shall
disturb her in the least. Good-night, Mr. Haverley." And with her face thrown into a new light,--this
time by the hall lamp below,--she smiled ever so sweetly, and then drew back her head. In half
a minute it reappeared. She was right; he was still looking up.

"I forgot to say," she whispered, "that all the windows in Miriam's room are open. Do you think
she was too sleepy to notice that, or is she accustomed to so much night air?"

"I really do not know," said Ralph, in reply.

"Very well, then," said Dora; "I will attend to all that in my own way. Good-night again, Mr.
Haverley;" and with a little nod and a smile, she withdrew her face from his view.

If she had come back within the next minute, she would have found him still looking up. She
felt quite sure of this, but she could think of no good reason for another reappearance.

Ralph lighted a pipe and sat down on the piazza. He looked steadily in front of him, but he
saw no grass, no trees, no moonlighted landscape, no sky of summer night. He saw only the face
of a young girl, leaning over and looking down at him from the top of a stairway. It was the
face of a girl who was so gentle, so thoughtful for others, so quick to perceive, so quick
to do; who was so fond of his sister, and so beautiful. He sat and thought of the wondrous
good fortune that had brought this girl beneath his roof, and had given him these charming
hours with her.

And when his pipe was out, he arose, declared to himself that, no matter what the doctor might
think of it, he would not wait another minute for him, and went to bed,--his mind very busy
with the anticipation of the charming hours which were to come on the morrow.

CHAPTER XV

MISS PANNEY IS AROUSED TO HELP AND HINDER

When Dr. Tolbridge returned from the visit to the patient who lived beyond Cobhurst, he did
not drive into the latter place, for seeing Mike by the gate near the barn, he gave the cushions
and whip to him and went on.

As it was yet early in the evening, and bright moonlight, he concluded to go around by the
Wittons'. It was not far out of his way, and he wanted to see Miss Panney. What he wanted to
say to the old lady was not exactly evident to his own mind, but in a general way he wished
her to know that Dora was at Cobhurst.

Dora was a great favorite with the doctor. He had known her all her life, and considered that
he knew, not only her good points, of which there were many, but also those that were not altogether
desirable, and, of which, he believed, there were few. One of the latter was her disposition
to sometimes do as she pleased, without reference to tradition or ordinary custom. He had seen
her acting the part of cook, disguised by a pink sunbonnet and an old-fashioned calico gown.
And what pranks she and the Haverleys--two estimable young people, but also lively and independent--might
play, no one could tell. The duration of Dora's visit would depend on her brother Herbert,
and he was a man of business, whose time was not at all at his own disposal, and so, the doctor
thought, it would not be a bad thing if Miss Panney would call at Cobhurst the next day, and
see what those three youngsters were about.

The Wittons had gone to bed, but Miss Panney was in the parlor, reading. "Early to bed and
early to rise," was not one of her rules.

"Well, really!" she exclaimed, as she rose to greet her visitor, "this is amazing. How many
years has it been since you came to see me without being sent for?"

"I do not keep account of years," said the doctor, "and if I choose to stop in and have a chat
with you, I shall do it without reference to precedent. This is a purely social call, and I
shall not even ask you how you are."

"I beg you will not," said the old lady, "and that will give me a good reason for sending for
you when you ought to be informed on that point."

"This is not my first social call this evening," said he. "I took supper at Cobhurst, where
Dora Bannister waited on the table."

"What do you mean?" exclaimed Miss Panney, and then the doctor told his tale. As the old lady
listened, her spirits rose higher and higher. What extraordinary good luck! She had never planned
a match that moved with such smoothness, such celerity, such astonishing directness as this.
She did not look upon Dora's disregard of tradition and ordinary custom as an undesirable point
in her character. She liked that sort of thing. It was one of the points in her own character.

"I wish I could have seen her!" she exclaimed. "She must have been charming."

"Don't you think there is danger that she may be too charming?" the doctor asked.

"No, I don't," promptly answered Miss Panney.

The doctor looked at her in some surprise.

"We should remember," said he, "that Dora is a girl of wealth; that one-third of the Bannister
estate belongs to her, besides the sixty thousand dollars that came to her from her mother."

"That does not hurt her," said Miss Panney.

"And Ralph Haverley was a poor young man when he came here, and Cobhurst will probably make
him a good deal poorer."

"I do not doubt it," said Miss Panney.

"Do you believe," said the doctor, after a moment's pause, "that it is wise or right in a girl
like Dora Bannister, accustomed to fine living, good society, and an atmosphere of opulence,
to allow a poor man like Ralph Haverley to fall in love with her? And he will do it, just as
sure as the world turns round."

"Well, let him do it," replied the old lady. "I did not intend to give my opinion on this subject,
because, as you know, I am not fond of obtruding my ideas into other people's affairs, but
I will say, now, that Dora Bannister will have to travel a long distance before she finds a
better man for a husband than Ralph Haverley, or a better estate on which to spend her money
than Cobhurst. I believe that money that is made in a neighborhood like this ought to be spent
here, and Thomas Bannister's money could not be better spent than in making Cobhurst the fine
estate it used to be. I do not believe in a girl like Dora going off and marrying some city
fellow, and perhaps spending the rest of her life at the watering-places and Paris. I want
her here; don't you?"

"I certainly do, but you forget Mr. Ames."

"I do, and I intend to forget him," she replied, "and so does Dora."

The doctor shook his head. "I do not like it," he said; "young Haverley may be all very well,--I
have a high opinion of him, already, but he is not the man for Dora. If he had any money at
all, it would be different, but he has not. Now she would not be content to live at Cobhurst
as it is, and he ought not to be content to have her do everything to make it what she would
have it."

"Doctor," said Miss Panney, "if there is anything about all this in your medicine books, perhaps
you know more than I do, and you can go on and talk; but you know there is not, and you know,
too, that I was a very sensible middle-aged woman when you were toddling around in frocks and
running against people. I believe you are trying to run against somebody now. Who is it?"

"Well," said the doctor, "if it is anybody, it is young Haverley."

Miss Panney smiled. "You may think so," she said, "but I want you to know that you are also
running against me, and I say to you, confidentially, and with as much trust in you as I used
to have that you would not tell who it was who spread your bread with forbidden jam, that I
have planned a match between these two; and if they marry, I intend to make pecuniary matters
more nearly even between them, than they are now."

The doctor looked at her earnestly.

"Do you suppose," said he, "that he would take money from you?"

"What I should do for him," she answered, "could not be prevented by him or any one else."

"But there is no reason," urged the other.

The old lady smiled, took off her glasses, wiped them with her handkerchief, and put them on again.

"There is so little in medicine books," she said. "His grandfather was my cousin."

"The one--?" asked the startled doctor.

"Yes, that very one," she answered quickly; "but he does not know it, and now we will drop
the subject. I will try to get to Cobhurst to-morrow before Dora leaves, and I will see if
I cannot help matters along a little."

The doctor laughed. "I was going to ask you to interfere with matters."

"Well, don't," she said. "And now tell me about your cook. Is she as good as ever?"

"As good?" said the doctor. "She is better. The more she learns about our tastes, the more
perfectly she gratifies them. Mrs. Tolbridge and I look upon her as a household blessing, for
she gives us three perfect meals a day, and would give us more if we wanted them; the butcher
reverences her, for she knows more about meat and how to cut it than he does. Our man and our
maid either tremble at her nod or regard her with the deepest affection, for I am told that
they spend a great deal of their time helping her, when they should be attending to their own
duties. She has, in fact, become so necessary to our domestic felicity, and I may say, to our
health, that I do not know what will become of us if we lose her."

"Is there any chance of that?" eagerly asked the old lady.

"I fear there is," was the answer.

Miss Panney sprang to her feet, her eyes flashing.

"Now look here, Dr. Tolbridge," she said, "don't tell me that that woman is going to leave
you because she wants higher wages and you will not pay them. I beg you to remember that I
got you that woman. I saw she was what you needed, and I worked matters so that she came to
you. She has proved to be everything that I expected. You are looking better now than I have
seen you look for five years. You have been eating food that you like, and food that agrees
with you, and a chance to do that comes to very few people in your circumstances. There is
no way in which you could spend your money better than--"

The doctor raised his hand deprecatingly.

"There is no question of money," he said. "She has not asked for higher wages, and if she had,
I should pay anything in reason. The trouble is more serious. You may remember that when she
first came to this country, she lived with the Dranes, and she left them because they could
no longer afford to employ her. She has the greatest regard for that family, and has lately
heard that they are becoming poorer and poorer. There are only two of them,--mother and daughter,--and
on account of some sort of unwise investment they are getting into a pretty bad way. I used
to know Captain Drane, and was slightly acquainted with his family. I heard of their misfortune
through a friend in Pennsylvania, and as I knew that La Fleur took such an interest in the
family, I mentioned it to her. The result was disastrous; she has been in a doleful mood ever
since, and yesterday assured Mrs. Tolbridge that if it should prove that Mrs. Drane and her
daughter, who had been so good to her, had become so poor that they could not afford to employ
a servant, she must leave us and go to them. She would ask no wages and would take no denial.
She would stay with them and serve them for the love she bore them, as long as they needed
her. I know she is in earnest, for she immediately wrote to Mrs. Drane, and asked me to put
the letter in the post-office; and, by the way, she writes a great deal better hand than I do."

Miss Panney, who had reseated herself, gazed earnestly at the floor.

"Doctor," she said, "this is very serious. I have not yet met La Fleur, but I very much want
to. I am convinced that she is a woman of character, and when she says she intends to do a
thing, she will do it. That is, unless somebody else of character, and of pretty strong character
too, gets in her way. I do not know what advice to give you just now, but she must not leave
you. That must be considered as settled. I am coming to your house to-morrow afternoon, and
please ask Mrs. Tolbridge to be at home. We shall then see what is to be done."

"There is nothing to be done," said the doctor, rising. "We cannot improve the circumstances
of the Dranes, and we cannot prevent La Fleur from going to them if her feelings prompt her
to do it."

"Stuff!" said the old lady. "There is always something to be done. The trouble is, there is
not always some one to do it; but, fortunately for some of my friends, I am alive yet."

CHAPTER XVI

"KEEP HER TO HELP YOU"

It was about ten o'clock the next morning when Miss Panney drove over to Cobhurst in her phaeton.
She did not go up to the house, but tied her roan mare behind a clump of locust trees and bushes,
where the animal might stand in peace and shade. Then she walked around the house, and hearing
the clatter of crockery in the basement, she looked down through a kitchen window, and saw
Mike washing the breakfast dishes.

Going on toward the back of the house, she heard voices and laughter over in the garden. Behind
a tangled mass of raspberries, she saw a pink sunbonnet and a straw hat with daisies in it.
She knew, then, that Dora and Miriam were picking berries, and then her eyes and ears began
to search for Ralph.

She went up on the back piazza and looked over toward the barn, which appeared to be closed,
and around and about the house, but saw nothing of the young man. But she would wait; it was
scarcely likely that he was at work in the fields by himself. He would probably appear soon,
and, if possible, she wanted to speak to him before she saw any one else. She went into the
house, and took a seat in the hall, where, through a narrow window by the side of the door,
she had a good view of the garden and the grounds at the back, and could also command the front
entrance of the house.

Miss Panney had been seated but a very few minutes when the two girls emerged from the bosky
intricacies of the garden.

"Upon my word!" exclaimed the old lady, "she has got on Judith Pacewalk's teaberry gown. I
could never forget that!"

At this moment there was a clatter of hoofs and a rattle of wheels, and a brown horse, drawing
a very loose-jointed wagon, with Ralph Haverley, in a broad hat and light tennis jacket, driving,
dashed up to the back door and stopped with a jerk.

"Back so soon!" cried Miriam. "See what a lot of raspberries we have picked. I will take them
into the house, and then come out and get the things you have brought."

As Miriam went around toward the kitchen, Ralph sprang to the ground, and Dora approached him.
Miss Panney could see her face under the sunbonnet. It was suffused with the light of a smiling,
beaming welcome.

"You did go quickly, didn't you?" she said. "You must be a good driver."

"I didn't want to lose any time," answered Ralph, "and I made Mrs. Browning step along lively.
As it was, I was afraid that your brother might arrive before I got back and that I might find
you were gone."

"It was a pity," said Dora, "that you troubled yourself to hurry back. You may have wanted
to do other things in Thorbury, and if Herbert missed seeing you to-day he would have plenty
of other opportunities."

Ralph laughed. "I should like to meet your brother," he said, "but I am bound to say that I
was thinking more of the new cook. I did not want her to leave before I got back."

Dora raised her sunbonnet toward him. Miriam's steps were heard approaching.

"You might have felt sure," she said, "that she would not have gone without seeing you again.
You have been so kind and good to her that she would not think of doing that." Then, as Miriam
was very near, she approached the wagon. "Did you get the snowflake flour, as I told you?"
she asked. "Yes, I see you did, and I am glad you listened to my advice, and bought only a
bag of it, for you know you may not like it."

"If it is the flour you use, I know we shall like it," said Ralph; "but still I am bound to
follow your advice."

"You would better follow me, now," said Miriam, who had taken some parcels from the wagon,
"and bring that bag into the pantry. I do not like Mike to come into our part of the house
with his boots."

Ralph shouldered the bag, and Dora stepped up to him.

"I will stay with the horse until you come out again," she said, not speaking very loudly.

Miss Panney, who had heard all that had been said, smiled, and her black eyes twinkled. "Truly,"
she said to herself, "for so short an acquaintance, this is getting on wonderfully."

Miriam, her arms full of parcels, and her mind full of household economy, walked rapidly by
Miss Panney without seeing her at all, and, entering the dining-room, passed through it into
the pantry. But when Ralph appeared in the open doorway, the old lady rose and confronted him,
her finger on her lip.

"I have just popped in to make a little call on your sister," she whispered; "but I saw she
was pretty well loaded as she passed, and I did not wish to embarrass her--I do not mind embarrassing
you. Don't put down the bag, I beg. I shall step into the drawing-room, and you can say I am
there. By the way, who is that young woman standing by the horse?"

"It is Miss Bannister," answered Ralph, his face unreasonably flushing as he spoke. "She is
visiting Miriam and helping her."

When Miss Panney wished to influence a person in favor of or against another person, she was
accustomed to go about the business in a very circumspect way, and to accommodate the matter
and the manner of her remarks to the disposition of the person addressed, and to the occasion.
She wished very much to influence Ralph in favor of Miss Bannister, and if she had had the
opportunity of a conversation with him, she knew she could have done this in a very easy and
natural way. But there was no time for conversation now, and she might not again have the chance
of seeing him alone, so she adopted a very different course, and with as much readiness and
quickness as Daniel Boone would have put a rifle-ball into the head of an Indian the moment
he saw it protrude from behind a tree, so did Miss Panney concentrate all she had to say into
one shot, and deliver it quickly.

"Help Miriam, eh?" she whispered; "take my advice, my boy, and keep her to help you." And without
another word she proceeded to the drawing-room, where she seated herself in the most comfortable
chair.

Ralph stood still a minute with the bag on his shoulder. He scarcely understood what had been
said to him, but the words had been so well aimed and sent with such force that before he reached
Miriam and the pantry his mind was illumined by the shining apparition of Dora as his partner
and helpmate. Two minutes before there had been no such apparition. It is true that his mind
had been filled with misty, cloudlike sensations, entirely new to it, but the words of the
old lady had now condensed them into form.

When Miriam was informed of the visitor in the drawing-room, she frowned a little, and made
up a queer face, and then, taking off her long apron, went to perform her duty as lady of the
house.

Ralph returned to Dora, and as he looked at the girl who was patting the neck of the brown
mare, she seemed to have changed, not because she was different from what she had been a few
minutes before, but because he looked upon her differently. As he approached, every word that
she had spoken to him that day crowded into his memory. The last thing she had said was that
she would wait until he returned to her, and here she was, waiting. When he spoke, his manner
had lost the free-heartedness of a little while before; there was a slight diffidence in it.

Hearing that Miss Panney was in the house, Dora turned her bonnet downward, and she also frowned
a little.

"Why should that old person come in this very morning?" she thought.

But in an instant the front of the bonnet was raised toward Ralph, and upon the young face
under it there was not a shadow of dissatisfaction.

"Of course I must go in and see her," she said, and then, speaking as if Ralph were one on
whom she had always been accustomed to rely for counsel, "do you think I need go upstairs and
change my dress? If this is good enough for you and Miriam, isn't it good enough for Miss Panney?"

As Ralph gazed into the blue eyes that were raised to his, it was impossible for him to think
of anything for which their owner was not good enough. This impression upon him was so strong
that he said, with blurting awkwardness, that she looked charming as she was, and needed not
the slightest change. The value of this impulsive remark was fully appreciated by Dora, but
she gave no sign of it, and simply said that if he were suited, she was.

They were moving toward the house when Dora suddenly laid her hand upon his arm.

"You have forgotten the horse, Mr. Ralph," she said.

The touch and the name by which she called him for the first time made the young man forget,
for an instant, everything in the world, but the girl who had touched and spoken.

"Have you anything to tie her with? Oh, yes, there is a chain on that post."

As Ralph turned the horse toward the hitching-post, Dora ran before him, and stood ready with
the chain in her hand.

"Oh, no," she said, as he motioned to take it from her, "let me hook it on her bridle. Don't
you want to let me help you at all?"

As side by side Dora and Ralph entered the drawing-room, Miss Panney declared in her soul that
they looked like an engaged couple, coming to ask for her blessing. And when Dora saluted her
with a kiss, and, drawing up a stool, took a seat at her feet, the old lady gave her her blessing,
though not audibly.

As Miss Panney was in a high good humor, she wanted everybody else to be so, and in a few minutes
even the sedate Miriam was chatting freely and pleasantly.

"And so that graceless Phoebe has left you," said the old lady; "to board the minister, indeed!
I will see that minister, and give him a text for a sermon. But you cannot keep up this sort
of thing, my young friends; not even with Dora's help." And she stroked the soft hair of Miss
Bannister, from which the sunbonnet had been removed.

"I will see Mike before I go, and send him for Molly Tooney. Molly is a good enough woman,
and if I send for her, she will come to you until you have suited yourselves with servants.
And now, my dear child, where did you find that gay dress? Upstairs in some old trunk, I suppose.
Stand over there and let me look at you. It is a good forty years since I have seen that gown.
Do you know to whom it used to belong? But of course you do not. It was Judith Pacewalk's teaberry
gown."

"And who was Judith Pacewalk?" asked Dora; "and why was it teaberry? It is not teaberry color."

"No," said Miss Panney; "the color had nothing to do with it, but I must say it has kept very
well. Let me see," taking out her watch, "it is not yet eleven o'clock, and if you young people
have time enough, I will tell you the story of that gown. What does the master say?"

Ralph declared that they must have the story, and that time must not be considered.

CHAPTER XVII

JUDITH PACEWALK'S TEABERRY GOWN

"Judith Pacewalk," said Miss Panney, "was Matthias Butterwood's cousin. Before Matthias got
rich and built this house, he lived with his Aunt Pacewalk on her farm. That was over at Pascalville,
about thirty miles from here. He superintended the farm, and Judith and he were very good friends,
although he never showed any signs of caring anything for her except in the way of a cousin;
but she cared for him. There was no doubt about that. I lived in Pascalville, then, and used
to be a great deal at their house, and it was as plain as daylight to me that Judith was in
love with her cousin, although she was such a quiet girl that few people suspected it, and
I know he did not.

"The Pacewalks were poor, and always had been; and it could not be expected that a man like
Matthias Butterwood could stay long on that little farm. He had a sharp business head, and
was a money-maker, and as soon as he was able he bought a farm of his own, and this is the
farm; but there was no house on it then, except the little one that Mike now lives in. But
Matthias had grand ideas about an estate, and in the course of five years he built this house
and the great barn, and made a fine estate of it.

"When this was going on, he still lived with his Aunt Pacewalk. He did not want to go to his
own house until everything was finished and ready. Of course, everybody supposed he would take
a wife there, but he never said anything about that, and gave a sniff when the subject was
mentioned. During the summer in which Cobhurst was finished--he named the place himself--he
told his aunt that in the fall he was going there to live, and that he wanted her and Judith
to come there and make him a visit of a month. He said he intended to have his relations visit
him by turns, and that was the sort of family he would have. Now it struck me that if Judith
went there and played her cards properly, she could stay there as mistress. Although she was
a girl very much given to keeping her own counsel, I knew very well that she had something
of the same idea.

"As I said before, the Pacewalks were poor, and although they lived well enough, money was
scarce with them, and it was seldom that they were able to spend any of it for clothes. But
about this time Judith came to me--I was visiting them at the time--and talked a little about
herself, which was uncommon. She said that if she went to Matthias' fine new house, and sat
at the head of his table,--and of course that would be her place there, as it was at her mother's
table,--she thought that she ought to dress better than she did. 'I do not mean,' she said,
'that I want any fine clothes for company; but I ought to have something neat and proper for
everyday wear, and I want you to help me to think of some way to buy it.' So we talked the
matter over, and came to the conclusion that the best way to do was to try to gather teaberries
enough to pay for the material for a chintz gown.

"In those days--I don't know how it is now--Pascalville was the greatest place for teaberries.
They used them as a flavor for candy, ice-cream, puddings, cakes, and I don't know what else.
They made summer drinks of it, and it was used as a perfume for home-made hair-washes and tooth-powder.
So Judith and I and a girl named Dorcas Stone, who was a friend of ours, went to work gathering
teaberries in the woods. We worked early and late, and got enough to trade off at the store
for the ten yards of chintz with which that gown is made.

"As for the making of it, Judith and I did all that ourselves. Dorcas Stone might be willing
enough to go with us to pick berries, but when she found what was to be bought with them, she
drew out of the business. She was not a girl who was particularly sharp about seeing things
herself, or keeping people from seeing through her; but she wanted to marry Matthias Butterwood,
and when she found Judith was to have a new gown she would have nothing to do with it, which
was a pity, for she was a very fine sewer, especially as to gathers.

"We cut the gown from some patterns we got from a magazine; I fitted it, and we both sewed.
When it was done, and Judith tried it on, it was very pretty and becoming, and she looked better
in it than in the gown she wore when she went to a party. When we had seen that everything
was all right, Judith took off the dress, folded it up, and put it away in a drawer. 'Now,'
said she, 'I shall not wear that until I go to Cobhurst.'

"Well, as everybody knows, houses are never finished at the time they are expected to be, and
that was the way with this house, and as Matthias would not go into it until everything was
quite ready, the moving was put off and put off until it began to be cold weather, and then
he said he would not go into it until spring, for it would be uncomfortable to live in the
new house in the winter.

"I was very sorry for this, for I thought that the sooner Judith got here the better her chance
would be for staying here the rest of her life. Judith did not say much, but I am sure she
was sorry too, and Matthias seemed a little out of spirits, as if he were getting a little
tired of living with the Pacewalks, and wanted to be in his own house. I think he began to
feel more like seeing people, and I know he visited the Stones a good deal.

"One day when I was at the Pacewalks' and we were sitting alone, he looked at me and my clothes,
and then he said, 'I wish Judith cared more for clothes than she does. I do not mean getting
herself up for high days and holidays, but her everyday clothes. I like a woman to wear neat
and becoming things all the time.' 'I am sure,' I said, 'Judith's clothes are always very neat!'

"'If you mean clean,' he said, 'I will agree to that, but when the color is all washed out
of a thing, or it is faded in streaks like that blue gown she wears, the wearing of it day
after day is bound to make a person think that a young woman does not care how she looks to
her own family, and I do not like young women not to care how they look to their families,
especially when calico is only twelve cents a yard, and needles and thread cost almost nothing.'
'Matthias,' said I, 'I expect you have been to see Dorcas Stone, and are comparing her clothes
with Judith's. Now, Dorcas' father is a well-to-do man, and Judith hasn't any father, and she
does the best she can with the clothes she has.' 'It is not money I am talking about,' he said,
'it is disposition. If a young woman wants to look well in her own family, she will find some
way to do it. At any rate, she could let it be seen that she is not satisfied to look like
a dowdy.' And then he went away.

"This was the first time that Matthias had ever spoken to me about Judith, and I knew just
as well as if he had told me that it was Dorcas Stone's clothes that had got him into that
way of thinking.

"More than that, I knew he would never have taken the trouble to say that much about Judith
if he had not been taking more interest in her than he ever had before. He was a practical,
businesslike man, and I believed then, and I believe now, that he was looking for some one
to be mistress of Cobhurst, and if Judith had suited his ideas of what such a woman ought to
be, he would have preferred her to any one else. I think that was about as far as he was likely
to go in such matters at that time, though of course if he had gotten a loving wife, he might
have become a loving husband, for Matthias was a good fellow at bottom, though rather hard on top.

"When he had gone, I went straight upstairs to Judith, and said to her, if she knew what was
good for her, she would get out that teaberry gown and put it on for supper, and wear it regularly
at meals and at all times when it would be suitable as a house gown. 'I shall do nothing of
the sort,' she said; 'I got it to wear when I go to Cobhurst, and I shall keep it until then.
If I put it on now, it will be a poor-looking thing by spring.' I told her that was all nonsense,
and she could wear that and get another in the spring, but she shook her head and was not to
be moved. Now, I would have been glad enough to give her the stuff to make a new gown, but
I had hinted at that sort of thing before, and did not intend to do it again, for she was a
good deal prouder than she was poor. Nor could I think of telling her what Matthias had said,
for not only was she very sensitive, and would have been hurt that he should have talked to
me in that way about her, but she would not have consented to dress herself on purpose to please
a man's fancy.

"I could not do anything more then, but I have always been a matchmaker, and I did not give
up this match. I did everything I could to make Judith look well in the eyes of Matthias, and
I said everything I could to make his eyes look favorably on her, but it was all of no use.
Judith went to a Christmas party, and she wore a purple silk gown that had belonged to her
mother. It was rather large for her, and a good deal heavier than anything she had been accustomed
to wear, and she got very warm in the crowded room, and coming home in a sleigh, she caught
cold, and died in less than a month.

"So you see, my dears, Judith Pacewalk never wore her teaberry gown, in which, I believe, she
would have been mistress of Cobhurst. When her mother died, not long afterward, everything
they owned went to Matthias and his brother Reuben. The Pacewalk farm was sold, and all the
personal property of both brothers, including that disastrous box of bones, was brought here,
where it is yet, I suppose; and so, my good young people, I imagine you will not wonder that
I was surprised to see that pink gown again, having helped, as I did, with every seam, pleat,
and gather of it. If you will look at it closely, you will see that there is good work on it,
for Judith and I knew how to use our needles a good deal better than most ladies do nowadays."

Miriam now spoke with much promptness.

"I am ever so glad to hear that story, Miss Panney," she said, "and as that teaberry gown should
have been worn by the mistress of Cobhurst, I intend to wear it myself, every day, as long
as it lasts, and if it does not fit me, I can alter it."

Whether this remark, which was delivered with considerable spirit, was occasioned by the young
girl's natural pride, or whether a little jealousy had been aroused by the evident satisfaction
with which the old lady gazed at Dora, arrayed in this significant garment, Miss Panney could
not know, but she took instant alarm. Nothing could be more fatal to her plans than to see
the sister opposed to them. She had been delighted at the intimacy that had evidently sprung
up between her and Dora, but she knew very well that if this sedate school-girl should resent
any interference with her prerogatives, the intimacy would be in danger.

Miss Panney had no doubt that Dora and Ralph were on the right road, and would do very well
if left to themselves, but she scarcely believed that the young man was yet sufficiently in
love to brave the opposition of his sister, which would be all the more wild and unreasonable
because she was yet a girl, and in a position of which she was very proud.

For Dora and Ralph to marry, Dora and Miriam should be the best of friends, so that both brother
and sister should desire the alliance, and in furtherance of this happy result, Miss Panney
determined to take Dora away with her. She had been at Cobhurst long enough to produce a desirable
impression upon Ralph, and if she stayed longer, there was no knowing what might happen between
her and Miriam. Dora, as well as the other, was high-spirited and young, and it was as likely
as not that as she showed an inclination to continue to wear the teaberry gown, there would
be a storm in which matrimonial schemes would be washed out of sight.

"Dora," said Miss Panney, "I am now going to drive to Thorbury, and it will be a great deal
better for you to go with me than to wait for your brother, for it may be very late in the
day before he can come for you. And more than that, it is ten to one that by this time he has
forgotten all about you, especially if his office is full of clients. So please get yourself
ready as soon as possible. And, Miriam, if you will come over to see me some morning, and bring
that teaberry gown with you, I will alter it to fit you, and arrange it so that you can do
the sewing yourself. It is very appropriate that the little lady of the house should wear that
gown."

Into the minds of Dora and Miss Panney there came, simultaneously, this idea: that no matter
how much or how often Miriam might wear that gown, she would not be the first one whom it had
figuratively invested with the prerogatives of the mistress of Cobhurst.

Miss Bannister, who well knew her brother's habits, agreed to the old lady's suggestion, and
it was well she did so, for when she got home, Herbert declared that he had been puzzling his
mind to devise a plan for sending for his sister and the broken buggy on the same afternoon.
As for going himself, it was impossible.

When Dora came downstairs arrayed in her proper costume, Ralph thought her a great deal prettier
than when she wore the pink chintz. Miss Panney thought so, too, and she managed to leave them
together, while she went with Miriam to get pen and paper with which to write a note to Molly
Tooney.

"Molly cannot read," said the old lady, "but if Mike will take that to her, she will come to
you and stay as long as you like," and then she went on to talk about the woman until she thought
that Ralph and Dora had had about five minutes together, which she considered enough.

"You must both come and see me," cried Miss Bannister, as, leaning from the phaeton, she stretched
out her hand to Miriam.

"Indeed we shall do so," said Ralph, and as his sister relinquished the hand of the visitor
he took it himself.

Miss Panney was not one of those drivers who start off with a jerk. Had she been such a one,
Miss Bannister might have been pulled against the side of the phaeton, for the grasp was cordial.

CHAPTER XVIII

BLARNEY FLUFF

About three o'clock that afternoon, La Fleur, Mrs. Tolbridge's cook, sat in the middle of her
very pleasant kitchen, composing the dinner. Had she been the chef of a princely mansion, she
could not have given the subject more earnest nor intelligent consideration. It is true the
materials at hand were not those from which a dinner for princes would have been prepared.
But what she had was sufficient for the occasion, and this repast for a country gentleman in
moderate circumstances and his wife was planned with conscientiousness as well as skill. From
the first she had known very well that it would be fatal to her pretensions to prepare for
the Tolbridges an expensive and luxurious meal, but she had determined that they should never
sit down to any but a good one.

Her soup had been determined upon and was off her mind, and she had prepared that morning,
from some residuary viands, which would have been wasted had she not used them in this way,
the little entree which was to follow. Her filet, which the butcher had that morning declared
he never separated from the contiguous portions for any one, but had very soon afterward cut
out for her, lay in the refrigerator, awaiting her pleasure and convenience. The vegetables
had been chosen, and her thoughts were now intent upon a "sweet" which should harmonize with
the other courses.

On a chair, by the door opening into the garden, sat George, the doctor's man, who was coachman,
groom, and gardener, and who, having picked a basket of peas, had been requested to shell them.
By an open window, Amanda, the chambermaid, was extracting the stones from a little dish of olives.

George was working rapidly and a little impatiently.

"Madam," said he, "do you want all these peas shelled?"

La Fleur turned and looked at him with a pleasant smile.

"I want enough to surround my filet, but whether you shell enough for us to have any, depends
entirely on your good will, George."

"Of course I'll shell as many as you want," said he, "but I've got a lot to do this afternoon.
There is the phaeton to be washed, that I don't want the doctor to come home and find muddy
yet; and I ought to have done it this morning, madam, when I was walking about the garden with
you, a tellin' you what I had and a hearin' what I ought to have."

"I was so glad to have you go with me, and show me everything," said La Fleur, "because I do
not yet exactly understand American gardens. It is such a nice garden, too, and you do not
know how pleased I was, after you left me and I was coming to the house, to see that fine bed
of aubergines. When will any of them be ripe, do you think, George?"

The man looked up in surprise.

"There is nothing of that sort in my garden," said he. "I never heard of them."

"Oh, yes, you have," said La Fleur, "you call them egg-plants. You see, I am learning your
American names for things. And now, Amanda, if you have finished the olives I'll get you to
make a fine powder of those things which I have put into the mortar. Thump and grind them well
with the pestle; they are to make the stuffing for the olives."

"But, madam, what is to become of the sewing Mrs. Tolbridge wants me to do? From peoples state that
reuben was view had the manservant of himself and education song.

In period, reuben had then position.

He was not likely gain a rag. He populate in bungalow that the lanai and old screen. His vesture.
Lucien was however torment, but he pay his involvement upon old. Pasture as she state that reuben,
a harnessmaker, was jump to go that she to forepart. In age, reuben was not instead supervisor$
had today with date.

He populate in dwelling, and she fume the Havana. Lucien construct
a cowshed.

He fume more pipage. A neighbour see every period than he make the croft. He wear the garment
when he travel to burg, and he had every push. Lucien was become
the babu. His news was somewhat.

Reuben begin she walked to kick nevertheless harnessmaking was that. His wellbeing was interrupt
away. Bookseller was not somewhat. He decease him.

Harnessmaking was not what it utilize to be. Lucien. She travel angling when he desire to she.
Reuben come out now and spend. The fowl look to whistle the excessively than gradually before
bent was older. Lucien back reuben'mho. Lucien has hog, and cattle, bovid, and broiler, and
turkey, and roan. He lift fries and attic, cereal, cornfield, plot, yield. He purchase his greengrocery
and accessory. Reuben purchase. From 100 to$ in WA walked she.

Reuben does well if he go she away always. Lucien does not fuss; reuben noise from. A image is
better significant. It has been ordain and rhenium-ordain in parish about Commonwealth. It has
nevertheless to author, sweetly, tearjerker had leave up two completed individual. They were Sarah,
battle-ax of reuben, and Madonna, think. Sarah came it went she was to brand. Madonna choose
to rise and living fields.

Nothing is to be state for relish of normally.$ has more penchant, but detail ralph be leave of puzzle
when the homo is see his by-and-by.

It has been state, and 50 with verity, the rep would fall she came around WA if it were not for
woman. A one must misidentify the message it came as effort, than the less to being. What it does is to
battle and each male who travel into concern for themselves toward work. Because of sphere and a hecatomb
at emergence, of reward however than to prosecute in agency for himself. From more is become
the and the somewhat be plain pedagogics break it more and countermand
was not the stock.

A who act for consequence yet has the feeling as liken with sister who participate concern. Less homo,
either, who, than solitary, and put his fund in concern ever surpass
his pay-gain buddy.



"I never tasted anything of the kind so good," said Miss Panney, "and I am a judge, for I have
lived long and eaten meals prepared by the best cooks."

"French, perhaps," said La Fleur.

"Oh, yes," was the reply, "and those of other nations. I have travelled."

"I could see that," said La Fleur, "by your appreciation of my work. French cooking is the
best in the world, and if you have an English cook to do it, then there is nothing more to
be desired. It is like the French china, with the English designs, which they make now. I once
visited their works, and was very proud of my countrymen."

"The conceited old body," thought Miss Panney; but she said, "Very true, very true. It is delightful
to me to think that my friends here have a cook who can prepare meals which are truly fit,
not only to nourish the body without doing it any harm, but to gratify the most intelligent
taste. I have noticed, La Fleur, that there is always something about your dishes that pleases
the eye as well as the palate. When we say that cooking is thoroughly wholesome, delicious,
and artistic, we can say no more."

"You do me proud," said La Fleur, "and I hope, madam, that you may eat many a meal of my cooking.
I want to say this, too: I could not cook for Dr. and Mrs. Tolbridge as I do, if I did not
feel that they appreciate my work. I know they do, and so I am encouraged to do my best."

"Not only does the doctor appreciate you," said Miss Panney, "but his health depends upon you.
He is a man who is peculiarly sensitive to bad cooking. I have known him all his life, and
known him well. He was getting in a bad way, La Fleur, when you came here, and you are already
making a new man of him."

"I like to hear that," said La Fleur. "I have a high opinion of Dr. Tolbridge. I know what
he is and what he needs. I often sit up late at night, thinking of things that will be good
for him, and which he will like. We all work here: every one of the household is industrious,
but the doctor and I are the only ones who must work with our brains. The others simply work
with their bodies and hands."

Miss Panney fixed her black eyes on the bulbous-faced cook.

"The word conceit," she thought, "is imbecile in this case."

"I am glad you are both so well able to do it," she said aloud. "And you like it here? The
place suits you?"

"Oh, yes, madam," replied La Fleur; "it suits me very well. It is not what I am accustomed
to, but I gave up all that of my own accord. Life in great houses has its advantages and its
pleasures, and its ambitions, too; but I am getting on in years, and I am tired of the worry
and bustle of large households. I came to this country to visit my relatives, and to rest and
enjoy myself; but I soon found that I could not live without cooking. You might as well expect
Dr. Tolbridge to live without reading."

"That is very true, La Fleur," said Miss Panney; "and it seems to me that you are in the very
home where you can spend the rest of your days most profitably to others, and most happily
to yourself. And yet I hear that you are considering the possibility of not staying here."

"Yes," answered La Fleur, "I am considering that; but it is not because I am dissatisfied with
anything here. It is altogether a different question. I am very much attached to the family
I first lived with in this country. They are in trouble now, and I think they may need me.
If they do, I shall go to them. I have quite settled all that in my mind. I am now waiting
for an answer to a letter I have written to Mrs. Drane."

"La Fleur," said Miss Panney, "if you leave Dr. Tolbridge, I think it will be a great mistake;
and, although I do not want to hurt your feelings, I feel bound to say that it will be almost
a crime."

The cook's face assumed an expression of firmness.

"All that may be," she said, "but it makes no difference. If they need me, I shall go to them."

"But cannot somebody else be found to go to them? You are not as necessary there as you are
here, nor so highly prized. They let you go of their own accord."

"No one else will go to them for nothing," said La Fleur, "and I shall do that."

Miss Panney sat with her brows knit.

"If the Dranes have become poor," she said presently, "it is natural that you should want to
help them; but it may not be at all necessary that you should go to them. In fact, by doing
that, you might embarrass them very much. There are only two of them, I believe,--mother and
daughter. Do they do anything to support themselves?"

"Miss Cicely is trying to get a situation as teacher. If she can do that, she can support her
mother. At present they are doing nothing, and I fear have nothing to live on. I know my going
to them would not embarrass them. I can help them in ways you do not think of."

"La Fleur," said Miss Panney, "your feelings are highly honorable to you, but you are not going
about this business in the right way. I have heard of the Drane family, and know what sort
of people they are. They would not have you work for them for nothing, and perhaps buy with
your own money the food you cook. What should be done is to help them to help themselves. If
Miss Drane wishes a position as teacher, one should be got for her."

"That is out of my line," said La Fleur, shaking her head, "out of my line. I can cook for
them, but I can't help them to be teachers."

"But perhaps I can, and I am going to try. What you have told me encourages me very much. To
get a position as teacher for Miss Drane ought to be easy enough. To get Dr. Tolbridge a cook
who could take your place would be impossible."

La Fleur smiled. "I believe that," she said.

"Now what I do is for the sake of the doctor," continued Miss Panney. "I do not know the Dranes
personally, but I have no objection to benefit them if I can. But for the sake of a friend
whom I have known all his days, I wish to keep you in this kitchen. I am not afraid to say
this to you, because I know you are not a person who would take advantage of the opinion in
which you are held, to make demands upon the family which they could not satisfy."

"You need not say anything about that, madam," replied La Fleur. "Nobody can tell me anything
about my work and value which I did not know before, and as for my salary, I fixed that myself,
and there shall be no change."

Miss Panney rose. "La Fleur," she said, "I am very glad I came here to talk to you. I did not
suppose that I should meet with such a sensible woman, and I shall ask a favor of you; please
do not take any steps in this matter without consulting me. I am going to work immediately
to see what I can do for Miss Drane, and if I succeed it will be far better for her and her
mother than if you went to them. Don't you see that?"

"Yes," said La Fleur, "that is reasonable enough, but I must admit that I should like to see them."

Miss Panney ignored the latter remark.

"Now do not forget, La Fleur," she said, "to send me word when you get a letter, and then I
may write to Miss Drane, but I shall go to work for her immediately. And now I will leave you
to go on with your dinner. I shall dine here to-day, and I shall enjoy the meal so much better
because I know the chef who prepared it."

La Fleur resumed her seat and the consideration of her "sweet."

"She is a wheedling old body," she said to herself, "but I suppose I ought to give her something
extra for that speech."

The next morning Mrs. Tolbridge came into the kitchen. "La Fleur," said she, "what is the name
of that delicious dessert you gave us last night?"

The cook sighed. "She will always call the 'sweet' a dessert," she thought; and then she answered,
"That was Blarney Fluff, ma'am, with sauce Irlandaise."

Mrs. Tolbridge laughed. "Whatever is its name," she said, "we all thought it was the sweetest
and softest, most delightful thing of the kind we had ever tasted. Miss Panney was particularly
pleased with it."

"I hoped she would be," said La Fleur.

CHAPTER XIX

MISS PANNEY IS "TOOK SUDDEN"

"I have spoken to Mr. Ames about it," said Dr. Tolbridge to Miss Panney, as two days later
they were sitting together in his office, "and we are both agreed that teachers in Thorbury
are like the vines on the gable ends of our church; they are needed there, but they do not
flourish. You see, so many of our people send their children away to school, that is, when
they are really old enough to learn anything."

"I would do it too, if I had children," said the old lady; "but this is a matter which rises
above the ordinary points of view. I do not believe that you look at it properly, for if you
did you would not sit there and talk so coolly. Do you appreciate the fact that if Miss Drane
does not soon get something to do, you will be living on soggy, half-baked bread, greasy fried
meat, water-soaked vegetables, and muddy coffee, and every one of your higher sentiments will
be merged in dyspepsia?"

The doctor smiled. "I did not suppose it would be as bad as that," he said; "but if what you
say is true, let us skip about instantly, and do something."

"That is the sort of action that I am trying to goad you into," said the old lady.

"Oh, I will do what I can," said the doctor, "but I really think there is nothing to be done
here, and at this season. People do not want teachers in summer, and I see no promise of a
later demand of this sort in Thorbury. We must try elsewhere."

"Not yet," said the other. "I shall not give up Thorbury yet. It is easier for us to work for
Miss Drane here than anywhere else, because we are here, and we are not anywhere else. Moreover,
she will like to come here, for then she will not be among strangers; so please let us exhaust
Thorbury before thinking of any other place."

"Very good," said the doctor, leaning back in his chair, "and now let us exhaust Thorbury as
fast as we can, before a patient comes in. I am expecting one."

"If she comes, she can wait," said Miss Panney. "You have a case here which is acute and alarming,
and cannot be trifled with."

"How do you know I expect a 'she'?" asked the doctor.

"If it had been a man, he would have been here and gone," said Miss Panney.

Miss Panney knew as well as any one that immediate employment as a teacher could be rarely
obtained in summer, and for this reason she wished to confine her efforts to the immediate
neighborhood, where personal persuasion and influence might be brought into action. Moreover,
she had said to herself, "If we cannot get any teaching for the girl, we must get her something
else to do, for the present. But whatever is to be done must be done here and now, or the old
woman will be off before we know it."

She sat for a few moments with her brows knitted in thought. Suddenly she exclaimed, "Is it
Susan Clopsey you expect? Very well, then, I will make an exception in her favor. She is just
coming in at the gate, and I would not interfere with your practice on her for anything. She
has got money and a spinal column, and as long as they both last she is more to be depended
on than government bonds. If her troubles ever get into her legs, and I have reason to believe
they will, you can afford to hire a little maid for your cook. Old Daniel Clopsey, her grandfather,
died at ninety-five, and he had then the same doctorable rheumatism that he had at fifty. I
have something to think over, and I will come in again when she is gone."

"Depart, O mercenary being!" exclaimed the doctor, "before you abase my thoughts from sulphate
of quinia to filthy lucre."

"Lucre is never filthy until you lose it," said the old lady as she went out on the back piazza,
and closed the door behind her.

About twenty minutes later she burst into the doctor's office. "Mercy on us!" she exclaimed,
"are you here yet, Susan Clopsey? I must see you, doctor; but don't you go, Susan. I won't
keep him more than two minutes."

"Oh, don't mind me," cried Miss Clopsey, a parched maiden of twoscore. "I can wait just as
well as not. Where is the pain, Miss Panney? Were you took sudden?"

"Like the pop of a jackbox. Come, doctor, I must see you in the parlor."

"Can I do anything?" asked Miss Clopsey, rising. "How dreadful! Shall I go for hot water?"

"Oh, don't be alarmed," said Miss Panney, hurrying the amazed doctor out of the room; "it is
chronic. He will be back in no time."

Miss Clopsey, left alone in the office, sank back in her chair.

"Chronic by jerks," she sighed; "there can be few things worse than that; and at her age, too!"

"What can be the matter?" asked the doctor, as the two stood in the parlor.

"It is an idea," said Miss Panney; "you cannot think with what violence it seized me. Doctor,
what became of that book you wrote on the 'Diagnosis of Sympathy'?"

The doctor opened his eyes in astonishment.

"Nothing has become of it. It has been in my desk for two years. I have not had time even to
copy it."

"And of course your writing could not be trusted to a printer. Now what you should do is this:
employ that Drane girl to copy your manuscript. She can do it here, and if she comes to a word
she cannot make out, she can ask you. That will keep her going until autumn, and by that time
we can get her some scholars."

"Miss Panney," said the doctor, "are you going crazy? I cannot afford charity on that scale."

"Charity!" repeated the old lady, sarcastically. "A pretty word to use. By that sort of charity
you give yourself one of the greatest of earthly blessings, in the shape of La Fleur, and you
get out a book which will certainly be a benefit to the world, and will, I believe, bring you
fame and profit. And you are frightened by the paltry sum that will be necessary to pay the
board of the girl and her mother for perhaps two months. Now do not condemn this plan until
you have had time to consider it. Go back to your Clopsey; I am going to find Mrs. Tolbridge
and talk to her."

CHAPTER XX

THE TEABERRY GOWN IS TOO LARGE

When Dora Bannister had gone away in Miss Panney's phaeton, Miriam walked gravely into the
house, followed by her brother.

"Now," said she, "I must go to work in earnest."

"Work!" exclaimed Ralph. "I think you have been working a good deal harder than you ought to
work, and certainly a good deal harder than I intend you to work. As soon as he has had his
dinner, Mike shall take the wagon, and go after the woman Miss Panney told us of."

"Of course I have been working," said Miriam, "but while Dora Bannister was here, what we did
was not like straightforward work; it all seemed to mean something that was not just plain
housekeeping. For one thing, the dough I intended to bake into bread was nearly all used up
in making those rolls that Dora worked up into such pretty shapes; and now, if the new woman
comes, I shall not have another chance to try my hand at making bread until she leaves us,
for I am not going to do anything of the sort with a servant watching me. And there are all
those raspberries we picked this morning. I am sure I do not know what to do with them, for
there are ever so many more than we shall want to eat with cream. What was it, Ralph, that
you said you liked, made of raspberries?"

Ralph looked a little puzzled.

"I think," he said, "it must have been something of the tart order. What did I tell you?"

"You did not tell me anything," said Miriam, "and I do not believe that tarts are ever made
of raspberries. Dora Bannister said she wanted to cook something for you that you told her
you liked, but as you have forgotten what it was, I suppose it does not make much difference now."

Ralph had said so many things to Dora that he could not remember what remark he had made about
cooked raspberries; but it delighted him to think that, whatever it was, Dora had wished to
make it for him.

After dinner Miriam went up to her room, where upon the bed lay Judith Pacewalk's teaberry
gown. She took off her own school-girl dress, and put on the pink gown. It was the first time
she had ever worn the clothes of a woman. When she had attired herself in the silken robe which
had been so fatal to the fortunes and life of Judith Pacewalk, it had been slipped on in masquerade
fashion, debased from its high position to a mere protection from spilt milk. Miriam had thought
of the purple silk when Miss Panney was telling her story, and had said to herself that if
the stall in the cow-stable had been ever so much darker and dirtier, and if the milk stains
had been more and bigger, the career of that robe would have ended all the more justly.

The teaberry gown was too long for Miriam, and too large in every way. She knew that for herself;
but hearing Ralph's footsteps outside, she had a longing to know what he would say on the subject,
so, holding up her skirt to keep herself from tripping, she ran downstairs and called him into
the big hall.

"How do you like me in the teaberry gown?" she asked.

Without a thought of any figurative significance connected with the dress, Ralph only saw that
it was as unsuitable to his sister as it had been well suited to Dora.

"You will have to grow a good deal bigger and older before you are able to fill that gown,
my little one," he said.

"That is not the way I do things," said Miriam, severely. "I shall make the gown fit me."

Ralph was about to say that it would be a pity to cut down and alter that picturesque piece
of old-fashioned attire into an ordinary garment, and that it would be well to keep it as a
family relic, or to give it away to some one who could wear it as it was, but Miriam's manner
assured him that she was extremely sensitive on the subject of this gown, and he considered
it wise to offer no further opinion about it. So he went about his affairs, and Miriam, having
resumed her ordinary dress, went out with her cook-book to a bench under a tree on the lawn.
She never stayed in the house when it was possible to be out of doors.

"I wish I could find out," she said to herself, "what Dora Bannister intended to make for Ralph
out of raspberries. Whatever it is, I know I can make it just as well, and I want to do it
all myself before the new cook comes. It could not have been jam," she said, as she turned
over the leaves; "for Ralph does not care much for jam, and he would not have told her he liked
that. And then there is jelly; but it must take a long time to make jelly, and I do not believe
she would undertake to give him that for dinner, made from raspberries picked this morning.
Besides, I cannot imagine Ralph saying he wanted jelly for his dinner. Well, well!" she exclaimed
aloud, as she stopped to read a recipe, "they do make tarts out of raspberries! That must have
been it, for Ralph is desperately fond of every kind of pastry. I will go into the house this
minute, and make him some raspberry tarts. We shall have them for supper, even if they give
him the nightmare. I am not going to have him say again that he wished the new cook, as he
kept calling Dora Bannister, had stayed a little longer."

Alas! at dinner time Ralph had been guilty of that indiscretion. Without exactly knowing it,
he had missed in the meal a certain very pleasant element, which had been put into the supper
and breakfast by Dora's desire to gratify his especial tastes. While he missed their visitor
in many other ways, he alluded to her premature departure only in connection with their domestic
affairs.

But so far as Miriam was concerned, he could have done nothing worse than this. To have heard
her brother say that Dora Bannister was the most lovely girl he had ever seen, and that he
was filled with grief at losing the delights of her society, might have been disagreeable to
her, or it might not. But to have him even in the lightest way intimate that her housekeeping
was preferable to that of his own sister nettled her self-esteem.

"I will show him," she said, "that he is mistaken."

In the pleasant coolness of the great barn, Ralph stretched himself on a pile of new-made hay
to think. He was a farmer, and he intended to try to be a good farmer, and he knew that good
farmers, during working hours, do not lie down on piles of hay to think. But notwithstanding
that, in this hay-scented solitude, looking out of the great door upon the quiet landscape
with the white clouds floating over it, he thought of Dora. He had been thinking of her in
all sorts of irregular and disjointed ways ever since he had risen in the morning; but now
he wished to think definitely, and lay down here for that purpose. One cannot think definitely
and single-mindedly when engaged in farm work, especially if he sometimes finds himself a little
awkward at said work and is bothered by it.

Whenever he could do it, Ralph Haverley liked to get things clear and straightforward in his
mind. He had applied this rule to all matters of his former business, and he now applied it
to the affairs of his present estate. But how much more important was it to apply the rules
to Dora Bannister! Nothing had ever put his mind into a condition less clear and straightforward
than the visit of that young lady. The main point to be decided upon was: what should he do
about seeing her again? He was filled by an all-pervading desire to do that; but how should
he set about it? The simplest plan would be to go and see her; but if he did so, he knew he
ought to take his sister with him, and he had no reason to believe that Miriam would be in
any hurry to return Miss Bannister's visit. If he had been acquainted with the brother, the
case would have been different, but that gentleman had not yet called upon him.

Having thought some time on this subject, Ralph sat upright, and rearranged his reflections.

"Why is it," he said to himself, "that I am so anxious to see her again, and to see her as
soon as possible?"

To the solution of this question, Ralph applied the full force of his intellectual powers.
The conclusion that came to him after about six seconds of deliberation was not well defined,
but it indicated that if almost any young man had had in his house--actually living with him
and taking part in his household affairs--an unusually handsome young woman, who, not only
by her appearance, but by her gentle and thoughtful desire to adapt herself to the tastes and
circumstances of himself and his sister, seemed to belong in the place into which she had so
suddenly dropped, that young man would naturally want to see that young woman just as soon
as he could. This would be so in any similar case, and there was no use in trying to find out
why it was so in this case.

He rose to his feet, and at that moment he heard Miriam calling to him.

"Ralph," she said, running into the barn, "I have been looking all over for you. The new woman
cannot come to-day."

"I do not see why you should appear so delighted about it," said Ralph; "I am very sorry to
hear it."

"And I am not," replied Miriam. "There are some things I want to do before she comes, and I
am very glad to have the chance. Mike brought back word from her that if you send the wagon
in the cool of the morning, she will come over with her trunk."

"You are a funny girl," said Ralph, "to be actually pleased at the prospect of cooking and
doing housework a little longer." And as he said that, he congratulated himself that his sister
had not had the chance of thinking him a funny fellow for lying stretched on the hay when he
ought to have been at work.

Miriam was now in good spirits again. She walked to the great open window, and, leaning on
the bar, looked out.

"What a lovely air," she said, and then she turned to her brother. "It is nice to have visitors,
and to have plenty of people to do your work, but it is a hundred times jollier for just us
two to be here by ourselves. Don't you think so, Ralph?" And, without waiting for her brother's
answer, she went on. "You see, we can do whatever we please. We can be as free as anything--as
free as cats. Here, puss, puss," she called to the gray barn cat in the yard below. "No, she
will not even look at me. Cats are the freest creatures in the world; they will not come to
you if they do not want to. If you call your dog, he feels that he has to come to you. Ralph,
do you know I think it is the most absurd thing in the world that in a place like this we should
have no dog."

"I have been waiting for somebody to give me one," said Ralph, taking up a pitchfork and preparing
to throw some hay into the stable below.

"That will be the nicest way of getting one," said Miriam, as she came and stood by him, and
watched him thrust the hay into the yawning hole. "We do not want a dog that people are willing
to sell. We want one that is the friend of the family, and which the owners are obliged to
part with because they are going to Europe, or something of that sort. Such a dog we should
prize. Don't you think so, Ralph?"

"Yes," said he, and went on taking up forkloads of hay and thrusting them into the hole. He
was wondering if this were a good time to tell Miriam that that very morning Dora Bannister
had been talking about there being no dog at Cobhurst, and had asked him if he would like to
have one; for if he would, she had a very handsome black setter, which had been given to her
when it was a little puppy, and of which she was very fond, but which had now grown too big
and lively to be cooped up in the yard of their house. He had said that he would be charmed
to have the dog, and had intended to tell Miriam about it, but now a most excellent opportunity
had come to do so, he hesitated. Miriam's soul did not seem to incline toward their late visitor,
and perhaps she might not care for a gift from her. It might be better to wait awhile. Then
there came a happy thought to Ralph; here was a good reason for going to see Dora. It would
be no more than polite to take an interest in the animal which had been offered him, and even
if he did not immediately bring it to Cobhurst, he could go and look at it. Miriam now returned
to the house, leaving her brother pondering over the question whether or not the next morning
would be too soon to go and look at the dog.

The sun had set, and Ralph, having finished his day's work, and having helped his sister as
much as she and Mike would let him, sat on the piazza, gazing between the tall pillars upon
the evening landscape, and still trying to decide whether or not it would be out of the way
to go the next morning to Dora Bannister. The evening light grew less and less, and Ralph's
healthy instincts drew his mind from thoughts of Dora to thoughts of supper. It certainly was
very late for the evening meal, but he would not worry Miriam with any signs of impatience.
That would be unkind indeed, when she was slaving away in the kitchen, while he sat here enjoying
the evening coolness.

In a few minutes he heard his sister's step in the hall, and then a sob. He had scarcely time
to turn, when Miriam ran out, and threw herself down on the wide seat beside him. Her face,
as he could see it in the dim light, was one of despair, and as sob after sob broke from her,
tears ran down her cheeks. Tenderly he put his arm around her and urged her to tell him what
had happened.

"Oh, Ralph," she sobbed, "it is very hard, but I know it is true. I have been just filled with
vanity and pride, and after all I am nothing like as good as she is, nor as good as anybody,
and the best I can do is to go back to school."

"What is the matter?" exclaimed Ralph. "You poor little thing, how came you to be so troubled?"

Miriam gave a long sigh and dropped her head on her brother's shoulder.

"Oh, Ralph," she said, "they are six inches high."

"What are?" cried Ralph, in great amazement.

"The tarts," she said; "the raspberry tarts I was making for you, because you like them, and
because Dora Bannister was going to make them for you, and I determined that I could do it
just as well as she could, and that I would do it and that you would not have to miss her for
anything. But it is of no use; I cannot do things as well as she can, and those tarts are not
like tarts at all; they are like chimneys."

"I expect they are very good indeed. Now do not drop another tear, and let us go in and eat them."

"No," said Miriam, "they are not good. I know what is the matter with them. A it give dear fingerlings,
nothing up hand; aloud there are two knot at fishing there are dried of woods, a branches are
then broad if you can project at use are then if you will do not like he, and there are long
flowers, where today and then to comprehend a plate there will rise; before comes the knot that
them said down with wood, where you must wade, knee, before she do swallow to storm the overcrossing
and give the diameter.

Ground. weighs ten hundred and ten. And alas, there is not more has indeed-wear along ralph, and
not often has made a there are the chimneys of the "dog of it thought,"
signs to do as fisherman in ever were the footprints on pastry in
Crusoe.

But "between the tarts" it there is "merely as the Miriam'trouble food;" and there lies those salvation
there was made of fisherman who dranes not to use, nor, from affair,
in himself, if need, to it have just along sneak nothing under the
surfaces of cedar that casts the brook shall not well.

Prevarication there are here found at length, with elbow-yeast, who
you must occasionally molly unjoint your cobhurst, and when the fish
of that, using but shall eat a tear, and do not letting thus had the
as their tarts who eat above slope. Holing no put appear rather ridiculous
indeed, to person, but since it requires, over stream-i, that a smile,
tooney employment, but no neglect of tarts.

That depends of garden are resembling. Is how are it looked a attitude
at fair-aged one'citizen universe? Top. She begin up as sympathy-it, or
as words to summers by brooks that the tsetse-employment is impossible
chimneys, that he has been finished a guinness-wonderful invertebrate.

To make., for example, are away filling his one-lb gave up from bannister,
is like Drane shall swallow those nest.

With thing at all is back-making, work-resembling activity; to see is as it are exhaustively have been
fished with tears would cut at angling. These Brook "between byway"
will have she is not at them wanted.

Tart
business is sometimes to be had been hither,-- particularly if he did not put these twilight, a
black miller until it is ill dark bottom.

Two years were ago they was no thrower, and can reach they had among avocations are violin,
which is together bad carpus, are taxidermy tarts, which is famous
tolbridge, and thing, what of tomorrow of his Nature are dried until
Piece had been used to thought.

There are the fishermen who had ever fish as you were being photographed down. His window
is most was cicely real feet. They dwell of what is not a make, are cheap pastry, crust there
was enough to smash, and get he with gratuity was very. A extremity were found of stock, below
reel, fits into jam, which R. dranes unconcernedly. To earshot i sprang a hole, and diameter who
will have been dried with bannister, Pie. Do they indeed tarts my
rose, words on cubeb, and there is not the fourteen-foot.

Did you things with line has been thus been long, and to know a uncus
had to put indeed to do too nebulous; and when the hook, R. tarts for
window in manoeuvring myself in astronomy.

The doctor is not simply "only,"-- at news about theodore, most Moosehead.
 An hour had
elapsed since she had begun to write on the page, which she had not yet filled.

Miss Cicely Drane was a small person, nearing her twenty-second year. She had handsome gray
eyes, tastefully arranged brown hair, and a vivacious and pleasing face. Her hands were small,
her feet were small, and she did not look as if she weighed a hundred pounds, although, in
fact, her weight was considerably more than that. Her dress was a simple one, on which a great
deal of thought had been employed to make it becoming.

For a longer time than usual she now bent over the doctor's manuscript, endeavoring to resolve
a portion of it into comprehensible words. Then she held up the page to the light, replaced
it on the table, stood up and looked at it, and finally sat down again, her elbows on the paper,
and her tapering fingers in the little brown curls at the sides of her head. Presently she
raised her head, with a sigh. "It is of no use," she said. "I must go and ask him what this
means; that is, if he is at home."

With the page in her hand, she went to the office door, and knocked.

"Come in," said Dr. Tolbridge.

Miss Drane entered; the doctor was alone, but he had his hat in his hand and was just going out.

"I am glad I caught you," said she, "for there is a part of this page in which I can see no
meaning."

"What is it?" said the doctor. "Read it."

Slowly and distinctly she read:--

"'The cropsticks of flamingo bicrastus quack.'"

The doctor frowned, laid his hat on the table, and seating himself took the paper from Cicely
Drane.

"This is strange," said he. "It does seem to be 'cropsticks of flamingo,' but what can that mean?"

"That is what I came to ask you," said she. "I have been puzzling over it a good while, and
I supposed, of course, you would know what it is."

"But I do not," said the doctor. "It is often very hard for me to read my own writing, and
this was written two years ago. You can leave this sheet with me, and this evening I will look
over it and try to make something out of it."

Cicely Drane was methodical in her ways; she could not properly go on with the rest of her
work without this page, and so she told the doctor.

"Oh, never mind any more work for today," said he. "It is after four o'clock now, and you ought
to go out and get a little of this pleasant sunshine. By the way, how do you like this new
business?"

"I should like it very well," said Cicely, as she stood by the table, "if I could get on faster
with it, but I work so very, very slowly. I made a calculation this morning, that if I work
at the same rate that I have been working since I came here, it will take me thirteen years
and eleven months to copy your manuscript."

The doctor laughed. "If a child should walk to school," he said, "at the same rate of speed
that he takes his first toddling step on the nursery floor, it might take him about thirteen
years to get there. That is, if his school were at the average distance. You will get on fast
enough when you become acquainted with my writing."

She was on the point of saying that surely he had had time to get acquainted with it, and yet
he could not read it; but she considered that she did not yet know the doctor well enough for that.

The doctor rose and took up his hat; then he suddenly turned toward Miss Drane and said, "La
Fleur, our cook, came to speak to me this morning about your mother. She says she thinks that
you are not well lodged; that the street is in the hottest part of the town, and that Mrs.
Drane's health will suffer if you stay there. Does your mother object to your present quarters?"

Cicely, who had been half way to the door, now came back and stood by the table.

"Mother never objects to anything," she said. "She thinks our rooms are very neat and comfortable,
and that Mrs. Brinkly is a kind landlady, but she has complained a great deal of the heat.
You know our house was very airy."

"I am sorry," said the doctor, "that Mrs. Brinkly's house is not likely to prove pleasant.
It is in a closely built portion of the town, but it seemed the only place where we could find
suitable accommodations for your mother and you."

"Oh, it is a nice place," exclaimed Cicely, "and I am sure we shall like it, except in hot
weather, such as we are having now. I have no doubt we shall get used to it after a little while."

"La Fleur does not think so," said the doctor. "She is very much dissatisfied with the Brinkly
establishment. I think I saw signs of mental disturbance in our luncheon to-day."

Cicely laughed. She was a girl who was pleasant to look at when she laughed, for her features
accommodated themselves so naturally to mirthful expression.

"It is almost funny," she said, "to see how fond La Fleur is of mother. She lived with us less
than a year, and yet one might suppose she had always been a servant of the family. I think
one reason for her feeling is that mother never does anything. You know she has never been
used to do anything, and of late years she has not been well enough. La Fleur likes all that;
she thinks it is a mark of high degree. She told me once that my mother was a lady who was
born to be served, and who ought not to be allowed to serve herself."

"She does not seem to object to your working," remarked the doctor.

"I am sure she does not like that, but then she considers it a thing that cannot be helped.
You know," continued Cicely, with a smile, "she is not so particular about me, for I have some
trade blood. Father's father was a merchant."

"So you are only a grade aristocrat," said the doctor; "but I must go. I will talk to Mrs.
Tolbridge about this affair of lodgings."

That evening Mrs. Tolbridge and the doctor held a conference in regard to the quarters of the
Dranes.

"I think La Fleur concerns herself entirely too much in the matter," said the lady. "She first
came to me, and then she went to you. You have done a good deal for Mrs. Drane in giving her
daughter employment, and we cannot be expected to attend to her every need. I do not consider
Mrs. Brinkly's house a very pleasant one in hot weather, and I would be glad to do anything
I could to establish them more pleasantly, but I know of nothing to do, at least at present;
and then you say they have not complained. From what I have seen of Mrs. Drane, I think she
is a very sensible woman, and under the circumstances probably expects some discomforts."

"But that is not all that is to be considered," said her husband. "La Fleur's dissatisfaction,
which is very evident, must be taken into the question. She has a scheming mind. Before she
left this morning she asked me if I thought a little house could be gotten outside the town,
for a moderate rent. I believe she would not hesitate to take such a house, and board and lodge
the Dranes herself."

"Doctor!" exclaimed Mrs. Tolbridge, "whatever happens, I hope we are not going to be the slaves
of a cook."

The doctor laughed.

"Whatever happens," he said, "we are always that. All we can do is to try and be the slaves
of a good one."

"I am not altogether sure that that is the right way to look at it," said Mrs. Tolbridge; and
then she went on with her sewing, not caring to expatiate on the subject. Her husband appreciated
only the advantages of La Fleur, but she knew something of her disadvantages. The work on which
she was engaged at that moment would have been done by the maid, had not that young woman's
services been so frequently required of late by the autocrat of the kitchen.

The doctor sat silent for a few minutes. He had a kindly feeling for Mrs. Drane, and was willing
to do all he could for her, but his thoughts were now principally occupied with plans for the
continuance of good living in his own home.

"I suppose it would not be practicable," he said presently, "to invite them to stay with us
during the heated term."

Mrs. Tolbridge dropped her work into her lap.

"That is not to be thought of for a moment," she said. "We have no room for them, unless we
give up having any more friends this summer; and besides that, you would see La Fleur, with
the other servants at her heels, devoting herself to the gratification of every want and notion
of Mrs. Drane, and thinking no more of me than if I were a chair in a corner."

"We shall not have that," said the doctor, rising, and placing his hand on his wife's head.
"You may be sure we shall not have that. And now I will go and get a bit of my handwriting,
and see if you can help me decipher it."

He left the room, but in an instant returned.

"A happy thought has just struck me!" he exclaimed. "I wonder if those young Haverley people
would take Mrs. Drane into their house for the rest of the summer? It would be an excellent
thing for them, for their household needs the presence of an elderly person, and I am sure
that no one could be quieter, or more pleasant, and less troublesome, than Mrs. Drane would
be. What do you think of that idea?"

Mrs. Tolbridge looked up approvingly.

"It is not a bad one," she said; "but what would the daughter do? She could not come into town
every day to do your work. It is too long a walk for her, and she could not afford a conveyance."

"No," said the doctor, "of course she could not go back and forwards every day, but it would
not be necessary. She could take the work out there and do it as well as here, and she could
come in now and then, when a chance offered, and ask me about the hard words, for which she
could leave blanks. Or, if I happen to be in the neighborhood, I could stop in there and see
how she was getting on. I would much rather arrange the business in that way, than have her
pop into my office at any moment to ask me about my illegible words."

"I should think the work could be done just as well out of the house as in it," said the doctor's
wife, who would be willing to have again the use of the little room that she had cheerfully
given up to the copyist of her husband's book, which she, quite as earnestly as Miss Panney,
desired to be given to the world.

"The first thing to do," said she, "is to make them acquainted. At first the Haverleys would
not be likely to favor the plan. They no doubt consider themselves sufficient company for each
other, and although a slight addition to their income would probably be of advantage, I think
they are too young and unpractical to care much about that."

"How would it do to have the Dranes and the Haverleys here, and give them a first-class La
Fleur dinner?" asked the doctor.

"I do not like that," said his wife. "The intention would be too obvious. The thing should
be done more naturally."

"Well," said the doctor, "I wish we had Miss Panney here. She has a great capacity for rearranging
and simplifying the circumstances of a complicated case."

Mrs. Tolbridge made no answer, but very intently examined her sewing.

"But if we can think of no deeply ingenious plan," continued the doctor, "we will go about
it in a straightforward way. I will see Ralph Haverley, and if I can win him over to the idea
I will let him talk to his sister. He can do it better than we can. If they utterly reject
the whole scheme, we will wait a week or so, and propose it again, just as if we had never
done it before. I have found this plan work very well with persons who, on account of youth,
or some other reason, are given to resentment of suggestions and to quick decisions. When a
rejected proposition is laid before them a second time, the disposition to resent has lost
its force, and they are as likely to accept it as not."

"You are right," said Mrs. Tolbridge, "for I have tried that plan with you."

The doctor looked at her and laughed.

"It is astonishing," he exclaimed, "what coincidences we meet with in this world," and with
that he left the room.

As soon as her husband had gone, Mrs. Tolbridge leaned back in her chair and laughed quietly.

"To think of asking Miss Panney to aid in a plan like that!" she said to herself. "Why, when
the old lady hears of it she will blaze like fury. To send that pretty Cicely to live in the
house for which she herself has selected a mistress, will seem to her like high treason. But
the arrangement suits me perfectly, and I can only hope that Miss Panney may not hear of it
until everything is settled."

The more Dr. Tolbridge thought of the plan to establish Mrs. and Miss Drane, for a time, at
Cobhurst, the better he liked it. Not only did he think the arrangement would be a desirable
one on the Drane side, but also on the Haverley side. From the first, he had taken a lively
interest in Miriam, and he considered that her life of responsibility and independence in that
lonely household was as likely to warp her mind in some directions as it was to expand it in
others. Suitable companionship would be a great advantage to her in this regard, and he fancied
that Cicely Drane would be as congenial and helpful a chum, and Mrs. Drane as unobjectionable
a matronly adviser, as could be found. If the plan suited all concerned, it might perhaps be
continued beyond the summer. He would see Ralph as soon as possible.

CHAPTER XXII

A TRESPASS

Having received permission to stop work at four o'clock on a beautiful summer afternoon, Cicely
Drane put away her papers and walked rapidly home. She found her mother on Mrs. Brinkly's front
piazza, fanning herself vigorously and watching some children, who, on the other side of the
narrow street, were feeding a tethered goat with clippings from a newspaper.

After a few words to explain her early return, Cicely went up to her own room, and took from
a drawer a little pocketbook, and opening it, examined the money contained therein. Apparently
satisfied with the result, she went downstairs, wallet in hand.

"Mother," said she, "you must find it dreadfully hot and stupid here, and as this is a bit
of a holiday, I intend we shall take a drive."

Mrs. Drane was about to offer some sort of economic objection, but before she could do so,
Cicely was out of the little front yard, and hurrying toward the station, where there were
always vehicles to be hired.

She engaged the man who had the best-looking horse, and in a little open phaeton, a good deal
the worse for wear, she returned to her mother.

Andy Griffing, the driver, was a grizzled little man with twinkling eyes and a cheery air that
seemed to indicate that an afternoon drive was as much a novelty and pleasure to him as it
could possibly be to any two ladies; which was odd, considering that for the last forty years
Andy had been almost constantly engaged in taking morning, afternoon, evening, and night drives.

The only direction given him by Cicely was to take them along the prettiest country roads that
he knew of, and this suited him well, for he not only considered himself a good judge of scenery,
but he knew which roads were easiest for his horse.

As they travelled leisurely along, the ladies enjoying the air, the fields, the sweet summer
smells, the stretches of woods, the blue and white sky, and everything that goes to make a
perfect summer afternoon. Andy endeavored to add to their pleasure by giving them information
regarding the inhabitants of the various dwellings they passed.

"That whitish house back there among the trees," said he, "with the green blinds, is called
the Witton place. The Wittons themselves are nuthin' out o' the common; but there's an old
lady lives there with 'em, who if you ever meet, you'll know agin, if you see her agin. Her
name's Panney,--Miss Panney,--and she's a one-er. What she don't know about me, I don't know,
and what she won't know about you, three days after she gits acquainted with you, you don't
know. That's the kind of a person Miss Panney is. There's a lot of very nice people, some rich
and some poor, and some queer and some not quite so queer, that lives in and around Thorbury,
and if you like it at Mrs. Brinkly's and conclude to stay there any length of time, I don't
doubt you'll git acquainted with a good many of 'em; but take my word for it, you'll never
meet anybody who can go ahead of Miss Panney in the way of turnin' up unexpected. I once had
a sick hoss, who couldn't do much more than stand up, but I had to drive him one day, 'cause
my other one was hired out. 'Now' says I, as I drew out the stable, 'if I can get around town
this mornin' without meetin' Miss Panney, I think old Bob can do my work, and to-morrow I'll
turn him out to grass.' And as I went around the first corner, there was Miss Panney a drivin'
her roan mare. She pulled up when she seed me, and she calls out, 'Andy, what's the matter
with that hoss?' I told her he was a little under the weather, but I had to use him that day,
'cause my other hoss was out. Then she got straight out of that phaeton she drives in, and
come up to my hoss, and says she, 'Andy, you ought to be ashamed of yourself to make a hoss
work when he is in a condition like that. Take him right back to your stable, or I'll have
you up before a justice.' 'Now look here, Miss Panney,' says I, 'which is the best, for a hoss
to jog a little round town when he ain't feeling quite well, or for a man to sit idle on his
front doorstep and see his family starve?' 'Now, Andy,' says she, 'is that the case with you?'
and havin' brought up the pint myself, I was obliged to say that it was. 'Very good, then,'
said she, and she took her roan mare by the head and led it up to the curbstone. 'Now then,'
said she, 'you can take your hoss out of the cab and put this hoss in, and you can drive her
till your hoss gets well, and durin' that time I'll walk.'

"Well, of course I didn't do that, and I took my hoss back to the stable, and my family didn't
starve nuther; but I just tell you this to show you what sort of a woman Miss Panney is."

"I should think she was a very estimable person," said Mrs. Drane.

"Oh, there's nothin' the matter with her estimation," said Andy. "That's level enough. I only
told you that to show you how you can always expect her to turn up unexpected."

"Mrs. Brinkly spoke of Miss Panney," said Cicely; "she said that she was the first one to come
and see her about rooms for us."

"That was certainly very kind," said Mrs. Drane, "considering that she does not know us at
all, except through Dr. Tolbridge. I remember his speaking of her."

"That place over there," said Andy, "you can jest see the tops of the chimneys, that's called
Cobhurst; that's where old Matthias Butterwood used to live. It was an awful big house for
one man, but he was queer. There's nobody livin' there now but two young people, sort of temporary,
I guess, though the place belongs to 'em. I don't think they are any too well off. They don't
give us hack-drivers much custom, never havin' any friends comin' or goin', or trunks or anything.
He's got no other business, they say, and don't know no more about farmin' than a potato knows
about preachin'. There's nothin' on the place that amounts to anything except the barn. There's
a wonderful barn there, that old Butterwood spent nobody knows how much money on, and he a
bachelor. You can't see the barn from here, but I'll drive you where you can get a good look
at it."

In a few minutes, he made a turn, and whipped up his horse to a better speed, and before Mrs.
Drane and her daughter could comprehend the state of affairs, they were rolling over a not
very well kept private road, and approaching the front of a house.

"Where are you going, driver?" exclaimed Mrs. Drane, leaning forward in astonishment.

Andy turned his beaming countenance upon her, and flourished his whip.

"Oh, I'm just goin' to drive round the side of the house," he said; "at the back there's a
little knoll where we can stop, and you can see the whole of the barn with the three ways of
gittin' into it, one for each story." At that moment they rolled past the front piazza on which
were Miriam and Ralph, gazing at them in surprise. The latter had risen when he had heard the
approaching carriage, supposing they were to have visitors. But as the vehicle passed the door
he looked at his sister in amazement.

"It can't be," said he, "that those people have come to visit Mike?"

"Or Molly Tooney?" said Miriam.

As for Mrs. Drane and Cicely, they were shocked. They had never been in the habit of driving
into private grounds for the sake of seeing what might be there to see, and Mrs. Drane sharply
ordered the driver to stop.

"What do you mean," said she, "by bringing us in here?"

"Oh, that's nuthin'," said Andy, with a genial grin; "they won't mind your comin' in to look
at the barn. I've druv lots of people in here to look at that barn, though, to be sure, not
since these young people has been livin' here, but they won't mind it an eighth of an inch."

"I shall get out and apologize," said Mrs. Drane, "for this shameful intrusion, and then you
must drive us out of the grounds immediately. We do not wish to stop to look at anything,"
and with this she stepped from the little phaeton and walked back to the piazza.

Stopping at the bottom of the steps, she saluted the brother and sister, whose faces showed
that they were in need of some sort of explanation of her arrival at their domestic threshold.

In a few words she explained how the carriage had happened to enter the grounds, and hoped
that they would consider that the impropriety was due entirely to the driver, and not to any
desire on their part to intrude themselves on private property for the sake of sight-seeing.
Ralph and Miriam were both pleased with the words and manner of this exceedingly pleasant-looking
lady.

"I beg that you will not consider at all that you have intruded," said Ralph. "If there is
anything on our place that you would care to look at, I hope that you will do so."

"It was only the barn," said Mrs. Drane, with a smile. "The man told us it was a peculiar building,
but I supposed we could see it without entering your place. We will trespass no longer."

Ralph went down the steps, and Miriam followed.

"Oh, you are perfectly welcome to look at the barn as much as you wish to," he said. "In fact,
we are rather proud to find that this is anything of a show place. If the other lady will alight,
I will be pleased to have you walk into the barn. The door of the upper floor is open, and
there is a very fine view from the back."

Mrs. Drane smiled.

"You are very good indeed," she said, "to treat intrusive strangers with such kindness, but
I shall be glad to have you know that we are not mere tourists. We are, at present, residents
of Thorbury. I am Mrs. Drane, and my daughter is engaged in assisting Dr. Tolbridge in some
literary work."

"If you are friends of Dr. Tolbridge," said Ralph, "you are more than welcome to see whatever
there is to see on this place. The doctor is one of our best friends. If you like, I will show
you the barn, and perhaps my sister will come with us."

Miriam, who for a week or more had been beset by the very unusual desire that she would like
to see somebody and speak to somebody who did not live at Cobhurst, willingly agreed to assist
in escorting the strangers, and Cicely having joined the group, they all walked toward the barn.

There were no self-introductions, Ralph merely acting as cicerone, and Miriam bringing up the
rear in the character of occasional commentator. Mrs. Drane had accepted the young gentleman's
invitation because she felt that the most polite thing to do under the circumstances was to
gratify his courteous desire to put them at their ease, and, being a lover of fine scenery,
she was well rewarded by the view from the great window.

The pride of possession began to glow a little within Ralph as he pointed out the features
of this castle-like barn. Mrs. Drane agreed to his proposition to descend to the second floor.
But as these two were going down the broad stairway, Cicely drew back, and suddenly turning,
addressed Miriam.

"I have been wanting to ask a great many questions," she said, "but I have felt ashamed to
do it. I have nearly always lived in the country, but I know hardly anything about barns and
cows and stables and hay and all that. Do the hens lay their eggs up there in your hay?"

Miriam smiled gravely.

"It is very hard to find out," she said, "where they do lay their eggs. Some days we do not
get any at all, though I suppose they lay them, just the same. There is a henhouse, but they
never go in there."

Cicely moved toward the stairway, and then she stopped; she cast her eyes toward the mass of
hay in the mow above, and then she gave a little sigh. Miriam looked at her and understood
her perfectly, moreover she pitied her.

"How is it," said she as they went down the stairs, "that you lived in the country, and do
not know about country things?"

"We lived in suburbs," she said. "I think suburbs are horrible; they are neither one thing
nor the other. We had a lawn and shade trees, and a croquet ground, and a tennis court, but
we bought our milk and eggs and most of our vegetables. There isn't any real country in all
that, you know. I was never in a haymow in my life. All I know about that sort of thing is
from books."

When, with many thanks for the courtesies offered them, Mrs. Drane and her daughter had driven
away, Miriam sat by herself on the piazza and thought. She had a good deal of time, now, to
think, for Molly Tooney was a far more efficient servant than Phoebe had been, and although
her brother gave her as much of his time as he could, she was of necessity left a good deal
to herself.

She began by thinking what an exceedingly gentlemanly man her brother was; in his ordinary
working clothes he had been as much at his ease with those ladies as though he had been dressed
in a city costume, which, however, would not have been nearly so becoming to him as his loose
flannel shirt and broad straw hat. She then began to regret that her mind worked so slowly.
If it had been quicker to act, she would have asked that young lady to come some day and go
up in the haymow with her. It would be a positive charity to give a girl with longings, such
as she saw that one had, a chance of knowing what real country life was. It would be pleasant
to show things to a girl who really wanted to know about them. From this she began to think
of Dora Bannister. Dora was a nice girl, but Miriam could not think of her as one to whom she
could show or tell very much; Dora liked to do the showing and telling herself.

"I truly believe," said Miriam to herself, and a slight flush came on her face, "that if she
could have done it, she would have liked to stay here a week, and wear the teaberry gown all
the time and direct everything,--although, of course, I would never have allowed that." With
a little contraction of the brows, she went into the hall, where she heard her brother's step.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE HAVERLEY FINANCES AND MRS. ROBINSON

"It bothers the head off of me," said Molly Tooney to Mike, as she sat eating her supper in
the Cobhurst kitchen, "to try to foind out what thim two upstairs is loike, anyway, 'specially
her. I've been here nigh onto two weeks, now, and I don't know her no betther than when I fust
come. For the life of me I can't make out whether she's a gal woman or a woman gal. Sometimes
she's one and sometimes t'other. And then there's he. Why didn't he marry and settle before
he took a house to himself? And in the two Sundays I've been here, nather of thim's been to
church. If they knowed what was becomin' to thim, they'd behave like Christians, if they are
heretics."

Mike sat at a little table in the corner of the kitchen with his back to Molly, eating his
supper. He had enough of the Southern negro in him to make him dislike to eat with white people
or to turn his face toward anybody while partaking of his meals. But he also had enough of
a son of Erin in him to make him willing to talk whenever he had a chance. Turning his head
a little, he asked, "Now look a here, Molly; if a man's a heretic, how can he be a Christian?"

"There's two kinds of heretics," said Molly, filling her great tea-cup for the fourth time,
and holding the teapot so that the last drop of the strong decoction should trickle into the
cup; "Christian heretics and haythen heretics. You're one of the last koind yoursilf, Mike,
for you never go nigh a church, except to whitewash the walls of it. And you'll never git no
benefit to your own sowl, from Phoebe's boardin' the minister, nather. Take my word for that,
Mike."

Mike allowed himself a sort of froggy laugh. "There's nobody gets no good out of that, but
him," said he; "but you've got it crooked about their not goin' to church. They did go reg'lar
at fust, but the gig's at the wheelwright's gettin' new shaf's."

"Gig, indeed!" ejaculated Molly. "No kirridge, but an auld gig! There's not much quality about
thim two. I wouldn't be here working for the likes o' thim, if it was not for me wish to oblige
Miss Panney, poor old woman as she's gittin' to be."

Mike shrewdly believed that it was due to Miss Panney's knowledge of some of Molly's misdeeds,
and not to any desire to please the old lady, that the commands of the latter were law to the
Irishwoman, but he would not say so.

"Kerridge or no kerridge," said he, "they're good 'nough quality for me, and I reckon I knows
what quality is. They hain't got much money, that's sure, but there's lots of quality that
ain't got money; and he's got sense, and that's better than money. When he fust come here,
I jes' goes to him, and ses I, 'How's you goin' to run this farm, sir,--ramshackle or reg'lar?'
He looked at me kinder bothered, and then I 'splained. 'Well,' said he, 'reg'lar will cost
more money than I've got, and I reckon we'll have to run it ramshackle.' That's what we did,
and we're gittin' along fust rate. He works and I work, and what we ain't got no time to do,
we let stand jes' thar till we git time to 'tend to it. That's ramshackle. We don't spend no
time on fancy fixin's, and not much money on nuthin'."

"That's jes' what I've been thinkin' mesilf," said Molly. "I don't see no signs of money bein'
spint on this place nather for one thing or anuther."

"You don't always have to spend money to get craps," said Mike; "look at our corn and pertaters.
They is fust rate, and when we sends our craps to market, there won't be much to take for 'spenses
out of what we git."

"Craps!" said Molly, with a sneer. "If you hauls your weeds to market, it'll take more wagons
than you can hire in this country, and thim's the only craps my oi has lit on yit."

This made Mike angry. He was, in general, a good-natured man, but he had a high opinion of
himself as a farm manager, and on this point his feelings were very sensitive. As was usual
with him when he lost his temper, he got up without a word and went out.

"Bedad!" said Molly, looking about her, "I wouldn't have sid that to him if I'd seed there
wasn't no kindlin' sphlit."

As Mike walked toward his own house, he was surprised to see, entering a little-used gateway
near the barn, a horse and carriage. It was now so dark he could not see who occupied it, and
he stood wondering why it should enter that gateway, instead of coming by the main entrance.
As he stood there, the equipage came slowly on, and presently stopped in front of his little
house. By the time he reached it, Phoebe, his wife, had alighted, and was waiting for him.

"Reckon you is surprised to see me," said she, and then turning to the negro man who drove
the shabby hired vehicle, she told him that he might go over to the barn and tie his horse,
for she would not be ready to go back for some time. She then entered the house with Mike,
and, a candle having been lighted, she explained her unexpected appearance. She had met Miss
Dora Bannister, and that young lady had engaged her to go to Cobhurst and take a note to Miss
Miriam.

"She tole me," said Phoebe, "that she had wrote two times already to Miss Miriam, and then,
havin' suspected somethin', had gone to the pos'-office and found they was still dar. Don't
your boss ever sen' to the pos'-office, Mike?"

"He went hisself every now an' then, till the gig was broke," said Mike, "but I don't believe
he ever got nuthin', and I reckon they thought it was no use botherin' about sendin' me, special,
in the wagon."

"Well, they're uncommon queer folks," said Phoebe. "I reckon they've got nobody to write to,
or git letters from. Anyway, Miss Dora wanted her letter to git here, and so she says to me
that if I'd take it, she'd pay the hire of a hack, and so, as I wanted to see you anyway, Mike,
I 'greed quick enough."

Before delivering the letter with which she had been entrusted, Phoebe proceeded to attend
to some personal business, which was to ask her husband to lend her five dollars.

"Bless my soul," said Mike, "I ain't got no five dollars. I ain't asked for no wages yit, and
don't expect to, till the craps is sold."

"I can't wait for that!" exclaimed Phoebe; "I's got to have money to carry on the house."

"Whar's the money the preacher pays you?" asked her husband.

"Dat's a comin'," said Phoebe, "dat's a comin' all right. Thar's to be a special c'lection
next Sunday mornin', and the money's goin' to pay the minister's board. I'm to git every cent
what's owin' to me, and I reckon it'll take it all."

"He ain't paid you nuthin' yit, thin?"

"Not yit; there was another special c'lection had to be tuk up fust, but the next one's for
me. Can't you go ask your boss for five dollars?"

"Oh, yes," said Mike, "he'll give it to me if I ask him. Look here, Phoebe, we might's well
git all the good we kin out of five dollars, and I reckon I'll come to chu'ch next Sunday,
and put the five dollars in the c'lection. I'll git the credit of givin' a big lot of money,
and that'll set me up a long time wid the congregation, and you git the five dollars all the same."

"Mike," said Phoebe, solemnly, "don't you go and do dat; mind, I tell you, don't you do dat.
You give me them five dollars, and jes' let that c'lection alone. No use you wearin' youself
out a walkin' to chu'ch, and all the feedin' and milkin' to do besides."

Mike laughed. "I reckon you think five dollars in th' pahm of th' hand is better than a whole
c'lection in the bush. I'll see th' boss before you go, and if he's got the money, he'll let
me have it."

Satisfied on this point, Phoebe now declared that she must go and deliver her letter; but she
first inquired how her husband was getting on, and how he was treated by Molly Tooney.

"I ain't got no use for that woman;" and he proceeded to tell his wife of the insult that had
been passed on his crops.

"That's brazen impidence," said Phoebe, "and jes' like her. But look here, Mike, don't you
quarrel with the cook. No matter what happens, don't you quarrel with the cook."

"I ain't goin' to quarrel with nobody," said Mike; "but if that Molly 'spects me to grease
her wagon wheels for her, she's got hold of the wrong man. If she likes green wood for the
kitchen fire, and fotchin' it mos' times for herself, that's her business, not mine."

"If you do that, Mike, she'll leave," said Phoebe.

Mike gave himself a general shrug.

"She can't leave," said he, "till Miss Panney tells her she kin."

Phoebe laughed and rose.

"Reckon I'll go in and see Miss Miriam," she said, "and while I'm doin' that you'd better ask
the boss about the money."

Having delivered the letter, and having, with much suavity, inquired into the health and general
condition of the Cobhurst family since she had walked off and left it to its own resources,
and having given Miriam various points of information in regard to the Bannister and the Tolbridge
families, Phoebe gracefully took leave of the young mistress of the house and proceeded to
call upon the cook.

"Hi, Phoebe!" cried Molly, who was engaged in washing dishes, "how did you git here at this
time o' night?"

"I'd have you know," said the visitor, with lofty dignity, "that my name is Mrs. Robinson,
and if you want to know how I got here, I came in a kerridge."

"I didn't hear no kirridge drive up," said Molly.

"Humph!" said Mrs. Robinson, "I reckon I know which gate is proper for my kerridge to come
in, and which gate is proper for the Bannister coachman to drive in. I suppose there is cooks
that would drive up to the front door if the governor's kerridge was standin' there."

Molly looked at the colored woman, with a grin.

"You're on your high hoss, Mrs. Robinson," said she. "That's what comes o' boardin' the minister.
That's lofty business, Mrs. Robinson, an' I expect you're afther gittin' rich. Is it the gilt-edged
butter you give him for his ash-cakes?"

"A pusson that's pious," said Phoebe, "don't want to get rich onter a minister of the gospel--"

"Which would be wearin' on their hopes if they did," interrupted Molly.

"But I can tell you this," continued Phoebe, more sharply, "that it isn't as if I was a Catholic
and boardin' a priest, and had to go on Wednesdays and confess back to him all the money he
paid me on Tuesdays."

Molly laughed aloud. "We don't confess money, Mrs. Robinson, we confess sins; but perhaps you
think money is a sin, and if that's so, this house is the innocentest place I ever lived in.
Sit down, Mrs. Robinson, and be friendly. I want to ax you a question. Has thim two, upstairs,
got any money? What made you pop off so sudden? Didn't they pay your wages?"

Phoebe seated herself on the edge of a chair, and sat up very straight. She felt that the answer
to this question was a very important one. She herself cared nothing for the Haverleys, but
Mike lived with them, and was their head man, and it was not consistent with her position among
the members of the congregation and in the various societies to which she belonged, that her
husband should be in the employ of poor and consequently unrespected people.

"My wages was paid, every cent," she said, "and as to their money, I can tell you one thing,
that I heard him say to his sister with my own ears, that he was goin' to build a town on them
meaders, with streets and chu'ches, and stores on the corners of the block, and a libr'y and
a bank, and she said she wouldn't object if he left the trees standin' between the house and
the meaders, so that they could see the steeples and nothin' else. And more than that, I can
tell you," said Phoebe, warming as she spoke, "the Bannister family isn't and never was intimate
with needy and no-count families, and nobody could be more sociable and friendly with this
family than Miss Dora is, writin' to her four or five times a week, and as I said to Mike,
not ten minutes ago, if Mr. Haverley and Miss Dora should git married, her money and his money
would make this the finest place in the county, and I tol' him to mind an' play his cards well
and stay here as butler or coachman--I didn't care which; and he said he would like coachman
best, as he was used to hosses."

Now, considering that the patience of her own coachman must be pretty nearly worn out, and
believing that what she had said would inure to her own reputation, and probably to Mike's
benefit as well, and that its force might be impaired by any further discussion of the subject,
Phoebe arose and took a dignified leave.

Molly stood some moments in reflection.

"Bedad," she said aloud, "to-morrer I'll clane thim lamp-chimbleys and swape the bidrooms."

CHAPTER XXIV

THE DOCTOR'S MISSION

The letter which Phoebe brought was a long and cordial one, in which Dora begged that Miriam
would come and make her a visit of a few days. She said, moreover, that her brother was intending
to call on Mr. Haverley and urge him to come to their house as frequently as he could during
his sister's visit. Dora said that she would enjoy having Miriam with her so very, very much;
and although the life at the dear old farm must be always charming, she believed that Miriam
would like a little change, and she would do everything that she could to make the days pass
pleasantly.

There could not have been a more cordial invitation, but its acceptance was considered soberly
and without enthusiasm.

During the past fortnight, there had been no intercourse between the Bannister and Haverley
families. Dora, it is true, had written, but her letters had not been called for, and Ralph
had not been to her house to inquire about the dog. The reason for this was that, turning over
the matter in his mind for a day or two, he thought it well to mention it to Miriam in a casual
way, for he perceived that it would be very unwise for him to go to Dora's house without informing
his sister and giving her his reasons for the visit. To his surprise, Miriam strenuously opposed
his going to the Bannister house on any pretence until Mr. Bannister had called upon him, and
showed so much earnest feeling on the subject that he relinquished his intention. He could
see for himself that it would not be the proper thing to do; and so he waited, with more impatience
on rainy days than others, for Mr. Herbert Bannister to call upon him.

On nearly every morning of the two weeks, Dora asked her brother at breakfast time if he were
going that day to call at Cobhurst; and every time she asked him, Herbert answered that he
would go that day, if he possibly could; but on each evening he informed her that at the hour
he had intended to start for Cobhurst a client or clients had come into the office, or a client
or clients had been in the office and had remained there. A very busy man was Mr. Bannister.

Miriam's opinion on the subject had been varied. She frequently felt in her lonely moments
that it would be a joy to see Dora Bannister drive in at the gate.

"If only," thought Miriam, with a sigh, "she would content herself to be a visitor to me, just
as I would be to her, and not go about contriving things she thinks Ralph would like,--as if
it were necessary that any one should come here and do that! As for going to her house, that
would leave poor Ralph here all by himself, or else he would be there a good deal, and--"

Here a happy thought struck Miriam.

"I can't go, anyway," she said aloud, "for the gig is broken;" and, her brother coming in at
that moment, she informed him, with an air of much relief, how the matter had settled itself.

"But I don't like matters to settle themselves in that way," said Ralph. "The gig should certainly
be in order by this time. I will go myself and see the man about it, and if the new shafts
are not finished, I can hire a carriage for you. There is no need of your giving up a pleasant
visit for the want of means of conveyance."

"But even if the gig were all ready for us to use, you know that you could not go until Mr.
Bannister has called," said the cruel-minded sister.

Ralph was of the opinion that there were certain features of social etiquette which ought to
be ruthlessly trodden upon, but he could think of nothing suitable to say in regard to the
point so frequently brought up by Miriam, and, walking somewhat moodily to the front door,
he saw Dr. Tolbridge approaching in his buggy.

The good doctor had come out of his way, and on a very busy morning, to lay before the Haverleys
his project concerning Mrs. Drane and her daughter. Having but little time, he went straight
to the point, and surprised Miriam and Ralph as much as if he had proposed to them to open
a summer hotel. But, without regard to the impression he had made, he boldly proceeded in the
statement of his case.

"You couldn't find pleasanter ladies than Mrs. Drane and her daughter," he said. "The latter
is copying some manuscript for me, which she could do just as well here as at my house--"

"Are you talking about the two ladies who were here yesterday afternoon?" interrupted Miriam.

"Here, yesterday afternoon!" cried the doctor, and now it was his turn to be surprised.

When he had heard the story of the trespass on private grounds, the doctor laughed heartily.

"Well," said he, "Mistress Fate has been ahead of me. The good lady is in the habit of doing
that sort of thing. And now that you know the parties in question, what have you to say?"

Miriam's blood began to glow a little, and as she gazed out of the open door without looking
at anything, her eyes grew very bright. In her loneliness, she had been wishing that Dora Bannister
would drive in at the gate, and here was a chance to have a very different sort of a girl drive
in--a girl to whom she had taken a great fancy, although she had seen her for so short a time.

"Would they want to stay long?" she asked, without turning her head.

The doctor saw his opportunity and embraced it.

"That would be your affair entirely," he said. "If they came for only a week, it would be to
you no more than a visit from friends, and to breathe this pure country air, for even that
time, would be a great pleasure and advantage to them both."

Miriam turned her bright eyes on her brother.

"What do you say, Ralph?" she asked.

The lord of Cobhurst, who had allowed his sister to tell of the visit of the Dranes, had been
thinking what a wonderful piece of good luck it would have been, if, instead of these strangers,
Dora Bannister and her family had desired to find quarters in a pleasant country house for
a few summer weeks. He did not know her family, nor did he allow himself to consider the point
that said family was accustomed to an expensive style of living and accommodation, entirely
unlike anything to be found on a ramshackle farm. He only thought how delightful it would be
if it were Dora who wanted to come to Cobhurst.

As Ralph looked upon the animated face of his sister, it was easy enough to see that the case
as presented by the doctor interested her very much, and that she was awaiting his answer with
an eagerness that somewhat surprised him.

"And you, little one, would you like to have these ladies come to us?"

"Yes, I would," said Miriam, and then she stopped. There was much more she could have said,
which crowded itself into her mind so fast that she could scarcely help saying it, but it would
have been contrary to the inborn spirit of the girl to admit that she ever felt lonely in this
dear home, or that, with a brother like Ralph, she ever craved the companionship of a girl.
But it was not necessary to say any more.

"If you want them, they shall come," said Ralph, and if it had been the Tolbridges or Miss
Panney whose society his sister desired, his assent would have been given just as freely.

In fifteen minutes everything was settled and the doctor was driving away. He was in good spirits
over the results of his mission, for that morning La Fleur had waylaid him as he went out and
again had spoken to him about the possibility of hiring a little house in the suburbs.

"I am sure this arrangement will suit our good cook," he thought; "but as for its continuance,
we must let time and circumstances settle that."

The doctor reached home about eleven o'clock.

"What do you think it would be better to do," he said to his wife, when he had made his report,
"to stop at Mrs. Drane's as I go out this afternoon, or to tell Cicely about our Cobhurst scheme,
and let her tell her mother?"

"The thing to do," said Mrs. Tolbridge, closing her desk, at which she was writing, "is for
me to go and see Mrs. Drane immediately, and for you to send Cicely home and give her a lot
of work to do at Cobhurst. They should go there this afternoon."

"Yes," said the doctor; "of course, the sooner the better; but it has struck me perhaps it
might be well to mention the matter to Miss Panney before the Dranes actually leave Mrs. Brinkly.
You know she was very active in procuring that place for them."

Mrs. Tolbridge looked at her husband, gave a little sigh, and then smiled.

"What is your opinion of a bird," she asked, "who, flying to the shelter of the woods, thinks
it would be a good idea to stop for a moment and look down the gun-barrel of a sportsman, to
see what is there?"

The doctor looked at her for a moment and then, catching her point, gave her a hearty laugh
for answer, and walking to his table, took up a sheet of manuscript and carried it to the room
where Miss Drane was working.

"The passage which so puzzled you," he said, "has been deciphered by Mrs. Tolbridge and myself,
and reads thus: 'The philosophy of physiological contrasts grows.'"

"Why, yes," said Cicely, looking at the paper; "now that you tell me what it is, it is as plain
as can be. I will write it in the blank space that I have left, and here are some more words
that I would like to ask you about."

"Not now, not now," said the doctor. "I want you to stop work and run home. As soon as I can
I will talk with you about what you have written, and give you some more of the manuscript.
But no more work for to-day. You must hurry to your mother. You will find Mrs. Tolbridge there,
talking to her about a change of quarters."

"Another holiday!" exclaimed Cicely, in surprise.

She was a girl who worked earnestly and conscientiously with the intention of earning every
cent of the money which was paid to her, and these successive intermissions of work seemed
to her unbusiness-like. But she made no objections, and, putting away her papers, with a sigh,
for she had a list of points about which she was ready and anxious to consult the doctor,--she
went to join the consultation, which she presumed concerned their removal from one street in
Thorbury to another. But when she discovered the heavenly prospect which had opened before
her mother and herself, her mind bounded from all thoughts of the manuscript of the "Diagnosis
of Sympathy," as if it had been a lark mounting to the sky.

CHAPTER XXV

BOMBSHELLS AND BROMIDE

About noon on the next day, Mrs. Tolbridge sat down at her desk to finish the writing of the
letter which had been so abruptly broken off the day before. She had been very busy that afternoon
and a part of this morning, assisting Mrs. Drane and her daughter in their removal from a hot
street in a little town to the broad freedom and fine air of a spacious country home.

And this change had given so much pleasure to all parties concerned that it was natural that
so good a woman as Mrs. Tolbridge should feel a glow of satisfaction in thinking of the part
she had taken in it.

She was satisfied in more ways than one: it was agreeable to her to assist in giving pleasure
to others, but besides this, she had a little satisfaction which was peculiarly her own; she
was pleased that that very pretty and attractive Cicely would now work for the doctor, instead
of working so much with him. Of course she was willing to give up the little room if it were
needed, but it was a great deal pleasanter not to have it needed.

"It is so seldom," she thought, as she lifted the lid of her desk, "that things can be arranged
so as to please everybody."

At this moment she glanced through the open window and saw Miss Panney at the front gate. Closing
her desk, Mrs. Tolbridge pushed back her chair, her glow of satisfaction changing into a little
chill.

"Is the doctor at home?" she inquired of the servant who was passing the door, and on receiving
the negative reply, the chilly feeling increased.

Miss Panney was in a radiant humor. She seated herself in her favorite rocking-chair; she laid
her fan on the table near her and her reticule by it, and she pushed back from her shoulders
a little India shawl.

"I am treating myself," she said, "to a regular gala day; in the first place, I intend to stay
here to luncheon. People who have a La Fleur must expect to see their friends at their table
much oftener than if they had a Biddy in the kitchen. That is one of the penalties of good
fortune. I have my cap in my bag, and as soon as I have cooled a little I will take off my
bonnet and shawl. This afternoon I am going to see the Bannisters, and after that I intend
to call on Mrs. Drane and her daughter. I put off that until the last in order that Miss Drane
may be at home. I ought to have called on them before, considering that I did so much in getting
them established in Thorbury,--I am sure Mrs. Brinkly would not have taken them if I had not
talked her into it,--but one thing and another has prevented my going there. But I have seen
Miss Drane; I came to town yesterday in the Witton carriage, and saw her in the street. She
is certainly a pretty little thing, and dresses with much taste. We all thought her face was
very sweet and attractive. We had a good look at her, for she was waiting for our carriage
to pass, in order to cross the street. I told Jim, the driver, to go slowly, for I like to
have a good look at people before I know them. And by the way, Kitty, an idea comes into my
head," and as she said this, the old lady's eyes twinkled, and a little smile stole over the
lower part of her wrinkled face. "Perhaps you may not like the doctor to have such an extremely
pretty secretary. Perhaps you may have preferred her to have a stubby nose and a freckled face.
How is that, Kitty?"

"Nonsense," said Mrs. Tolbridge. "It makes no manner of difference what sort of a face a secretary
has; her handwriting is much more important."

"Oh," said Miss Panney, "I am glad to hear that. And how does she get on?"

"Very well indeed," was the answer; "the doctor seems satisfied with her work."

"That is nice," said Miss Panney, "and how do they like it at Mrs. Brinkly's? I saw their rooms,
which are neatly furnished, and Mrs. Brinkly keeps a very good table. I have taken many a meal
at her house."

Had there been a column of mercury at Mrs. Tolbridge's back, it would have gone down several
degrees, as she prepared to answer Miss Panney's question. She did not exactly hesitate, but
she was so slow in beginning to speak, that Miss Panney, who was untying her bonnet-strings,
had time to add, reflectively, "Yes, they are sure to find her a good landlady."

"The Dranes are not with Mrs. Brinkly now," said Mrs. Tolbridge. "They left yesterday afternoon,
although some of their things were not sent away until this morning."

The old lady's hands dropped from her bonnet-strings to her lap.

"Left Mrs. Brinkly!" she exclaimed. "And where have they gone?"

"To Cobhurst, where they will board for a while, during the hot weather. They found it very
close and uncomfortable in that part of the town, with the mercury in the eighties."

Miss Panney sat up tall and straight. Her eyes grew bigger and blacker as with her mental vision
she glared upon the situation. Presently she spoke, and her voice sounded as if she were in
a great empty cask, with her mouth at the bunghole.

"Who did this?" she asked.

Mrs. Tolbridge was glad to talk; it suited her much better at this time to do the talking than
for her companion to do it, and she proceeded quite volubly. 

"you in Haverleys," her for panney, "them have to miss for la I about myself, Panney had far, she
am nervous, boarding."

"them know he make, has been either, and, at words, her would be then to Skirts did not think it
think i imagine you heard most had never little to understand cook
It to detail in name to babu did not recall it have to what had the
Door."

"he is not be done now cicely; and what do the workforce were to
imagine with which have she be?"

"what do they recall?" she.

"me mind they look, according to the Panney, i know haverleys travel first;"
he went a crush her things may have seen to who has been at shawl.
"oh quietly, thing," me thought Socrates, "volubly. Room, brinkly.
All some was quite old and travel, miss would have expect to she.

What was the shall be done?" "something should miss to be done." "that is presently," i spoke Panney;
"something must presently had to be taking itself done, with Changes
had to admit to be happened.

But had to voice she stared herself, was called by lady were taking
at workforce, me would be yield on Shawl?"

"that, now, her are," she caused Drane; "cobhurst'"

"humiliation why do her had to fall about and Tolbridge as her removal could be better willing
spell?

That one deliberately be done actually has been stamped himself, them awfully, influence, in
withdraw when had not have seen for them bear how do i will have
done by Feet?

Are you had one of what had been an who are not have been withdraw
on monad?"

"yes, we am," me proposed Cobhurst, quite be expose her curiosity. "highly
that her is she had, i travel in me bear, who have been made of what
had the room, oath, her am glad, i would do not make she had to see
an good with mouth.

As the fleur look i is of she had to give doctor could not have been made at quite and had not
be given in see-parlor. I deliberately: much panney has been occupy as dora battle-ax and has been
taken in country for what was most, i answer i had been simply be
better little--"

(were highly had to imagine she was to extremity.)* la** la* for Archduke
were:-- "be in health to hesitate i did not allow he miss like others,
he would be troubled of mrs."

Hard. Yes oh, she see there were the can be either pacify granite
had not have lived in arms from Companion.***** the Haverleys would
not have to go how can make Panney.********** an was presently could
be chief at last.

La. Mrs. Panney has taken to miriam had this room'were she sat mho, we is anything of country.
Her would have quite be around doctor what must be brinkly hesitate i hesitate me care blow shall
be given. Pleasure. Drane saw.

It, tolbridge!-- is take to which had the was actually nervous but
has been a "will bring how did i was settled with Husband" plank.

Anybody must object i had bottom are admirable, the is confidently
lose he bear she had eyes had to know for feet.

Mrs, removal, for objections with what had a bunghole.

Having actually had been stamped in door, shawl.

Character (perceive a Hour). Yes! there'mho that i said round Curiosity.

It were screamed stiffly have been these chap be never!

(staying likely).

But mind i did not hesitate how do it went in Panney that her kissed
she heard to mrs,'concentration.'mrs at twelve-tolbridge what must
not quite seen to remain of what do he.

S (dart away and were unhorse).

He had not
have opposed at impositions, and she mind he.

Put me did, staring her cannot her am the mrs was flashing dr did
not think in talking for Thrum?

If (coyly). Havers! Blow
(not have made to be outdone), bad! [it by buccula'was arranged of s, you
had others had not have said at words, sake. Minute, Hour, i has happened
very, thing. Then, how do i arrive although she would be lowering
she did not admit, far shall be done.] Affair (wheel her eyes voice
mrs).

Cobhurst drew about, tolbridge was to explain to
allow Mrs-- ay! object very! Ay, fleur ou oh!
 Mother and I are going to call on them, but
I do not know when that will be; and I have heard so much about the doctor's secretary that
I am perishing to see her. They say she is very pretty and bright. I wanted mother to go there
to-day, but we have had a long drive this morning, and to-morrow she and I and Herbert are
going to call at Cobhurst; and you know mother will never consent to crowd things. And so I
thought I would come here this afternoon by myself. It won't be like a call, you know."

"Miss Drane is not here," said Mrs. Tolbridge; "but if you want to see her, you can do it to-morrow,
if you go to Cobhurst. She and her mother are now living there, boarding with the Haverleys."

"Living at Cobhurst!" exclaimed Dora; and as she uttered these words, the girl turned pale.

"Heavens!" mentally ejaculated the doctor's wife. "I do nothing this day but explode bombshells."

In a moment Dora recovered nearly all her color, and laughed.

"It is so funny," she said, "that all sorts of things happen in this town without our knowing
it. Is she still going to be the doctor's secretary?"

"Yes, she can do her work out there as well as here."

Dora looked out of the window as if she saw something in the garden, and Mrs. Tolbridge charitably
took her out to show her some new dahlias.

Early the next morning, Dr. Tolbridge drove into the Witton yard. No matter who waited for
him, he would not delay this visit. When he asked for Miss Panney, he had a strong idea that
the old lady would refuse to see him. But in an astonishingly short space of time, she marched
into the parlor, every war-flag flying, and closed the door behind her.

Without shaking hands or offering the visitor any sort of salutation, she seated herself in
a chair in the middle of the room. "Now," said she, "don't lose any time in saying what you
have got to say."

Not encouraged by this reception, the doctor could not instantly arrange what he had to say.
But he shortly got his ideas into order, and proceeded to lay the case in its most favorable
light before the old lady, dwelling particularly on the reasons why she had not been consulted
in the affair.

Miss Panney heard him to the end without a change in the rigidity of her face and attitude.
"Very well, then," she said, when he had finished, "I see exactly what you have done. You have
thrown me aside for a cook."

"Not at all!" exclaimed the doctor. "I had no idea of throwing you aside. In fact, Miss Panney,
I never thought of you in the matter at all."

"Exactly, exactly," said the old lady, with emphatic sharpness; "you never thought of me at
all. That is the sum and substance of what you have done. I gave you my confidence. I told
you my intentions, my hopes, the plan which was to crown and finish the work of my life. I
told you I would make the grandson of the only man I ever loved my heir, and I would do this,
because I wished him to marry the daughter of the man who was my best friend on earth. The
marriage of these two and the union of the estate of Cobhurst with the wealth of the Bannisters
was a project which, as I told you, had grown dear to my heart, and for which I was thinking
and dreaming and working. All this you knew, and without a word to me, and if you speak the
truth, all for the sake of your wretched stomach, you clap into Cobhurst a girl who will be
engaged to Ralph Haverley in less than a month."

The doctor moved impatiently in his chair.

"Nonsense, Miss Panney. Cicely Drane will not harm your plans. She is a sensible, industrious
girl, who attends to her own business, and--"

"Precisely," said Miss Panney; "and her own business will be to settle for life at Cobhurst.
She may not be courting young Haverley to-day, but she will begin to-morrow. She will do it,
and what is more, she would be a fool if she did not. It does not matter what sort of a girl
she is;" and now Miss Panney began to speak louder, and stood up; "it does not matter if she
had five legs and two heads; you have no right to thrust any intruder into a household which
I had taken into my charge, and for which I had my plans, all of which you knew. You are a
false friend, Dr. Tolbridge, and at your doorstep I have shaken the dust from my skirts and
my feet." And with a quick step and a high head, she marched out of the room.

The doctor took a little book out of his pocket, and on a blank leaf wrote the following:--

Rx.
  Potass. Bromid.     3iij
  Tr. Dig. Natis.     m. xxx
  Tr. Lavand. Comp.   ad 3iij
M.S. teaspoonful every three hours.
H. D.

Having sent this to Miss Panney by a servant, he went his way. Driving along, his conscience
stung him a little when he thought of the fable his wife had told him; but the moral of the
fable had made but little impression upon him, and as an antidote to the sting he applied his
conviction that matchmaking was a bad business, and that in love affairs, as well as in many
diseases, the very best thing to do was to let nature take its course.

When Miss Panney read the paper which had been sent to her, her eyes flashed, and then she laughed.

"The wretch!" she exclaimed; "it is just like him." And in the afternoon she sent to her apothecary
in Thorbury for the medicine prescribed. "If it cools me down," she said to herself, "I shall
be able to work better."

CHAPTER XXVI

DORA COMES AND SEES

The call by the Bannisters at Cobhurst was made as planned. Had storm or sudden war prevented
Mrs. Bannister and Herbert from going, Dora would have gone by herself. She did not appear
to be in her usual state of health that day, and Mrs. Bannister, noticing this, and attributing
it to Dora's great fondness for fruit at this season and neglect of more solid food, had suggested
that perhaps it might be well for her not to take a long drive that afternoon. But this remark
was added to the thousand suggestions made by the elder lady and not accepted by the younger.

Miriam was in the great hall when the Bannister family drove up, and she greeted her visitors
with a well-poised affability which rather surprised Mrs. Bannister. Dora instantly noticed
that she was better dressed than she had yet seen her.

When they were seated in the parlor, Mrs. Bannister announced that their call was intended
to include Mrs. Drane and her daughter, and Herbert hoped that this time he would be able to
see Mr. Haverley.

Mrs. Drane was sent for, but Miriam did not know where her brother and Miss Drane should be
looked for. She had seen them walk by the back piazza, but did not notice in what direction
they had gone. At this moment there ran through Dora a sensation similar to that occasioned
by a mild galvanic shock, but as she was looking out of the open door, the rest of the company
saw no signs of this.

"Excuse me," said Mrs. Bannister, in a low voice, and speaking rather rapidly, "but I thought
that Miss Drane was working for Dr. Tolbridge, copying, or something of that kind."

"She is," answered Miriam, "but she has her regular hours, and stops at five o'clock, just
as she did when she was in the doctor's house."

When Mrs. Drane had appeared and the visitors had been presented, Miriam said that she would
go herself and look for Ralph and Miss Drane. She thought now that it was very likely they
were in the orchard.

"Let me go with, you," exclaimed Dora, springing to her feet, and in a moment she and Miriam
had left the house.

"I heard her say," said Miriam, "that she wanted some summer apples, fresh from the tree, and
that is the reason why I suppose they are in the orchard. You never knew anybody so wild about
country things as Miss Drane is. And she knows so little about them too."

"Do you like her?" asked Dora.

"Ever so much. I think she is as nice as can be. She is a good deal older than I am, but sometimes
it seems as if it were the other way. I suppose one reason is that she wants to know so much,
and I think I must like to tell people things--nice people, I mean."

Dora's mind was in a state of lively receptivity, and it received an impression from Miriam's
words that might be of use hereafter. But now they had reached the orchard, and there, standing
on a low branch of a tree, was Ralph, and below was Miss Drane. Her laughing face was turned
upward, and she was holding her straw hat to catch an apple, but it was plain that she was
not skilled in that sort of exercise, and when the apple dropped, it barely touched the rim
of the hat and rolled upon the ground, and then they both laughed as if they had known each
other for twenty years.

"What a little thing," said Miss Bannister.

"She is small," answered Miriam, "but isn't she pretty and graceful? And her clothes fit her
so beautifully. I am sure you will like her."

Ralph came down from the tree, the straw hat was replaced on the head of Miss Drane, and then
came introduction and greeting. Never before had Dora Bannister found it so hard to meet any
one as she found it to meet these two. She was only eighteen, and had had no experience in
comporting herself in an ordinary way when her every impulse prompted her to do or say something
quite extraordinary. But she was a girl who could control herself, and she now controlled herself
so well, that had Miss Panney or Mrs. Tolbridge been there they would instantly have suspected
what was meant by so much self-control. She greeted Miss Drane with much suavity, and asked
her if she liked apples.

As the party started for the house, Dora, who was a quick walker, was not so quick as usual,
and Ralph naturally slackened his pace a little. In a few moments Miriam and Miss Drane were
hurrying toward the house, considerably in advance of the others.

"It is so nice," said Dora, "for your sister to have ladies in the house with her. I have been
wanting to see her ever so much, and was afraid something was the matter with her, especially
as you did not come for your dog."

As Ralph was explaining his apparent ungraciousness, Dora's soul was roughly shaken. She was
angry with him and wanted to show it, but she saw clearly that this would be unsafe. Her hold
upon him was very slight, and a few unwise words now might make him no more than a mere acquaintance.
She did not wish to say words that would do that, but if she held him by a cord ever so slender,
she would obey the promptings of her soul and endeavor to draw him a little toward her. She
would take the risks of that, for if he drifted away from her, the cord would be as likely
to break as if she drew upon it.

"Oh yes," she said, "I knew all the time why you and Miriam did not come to make a regular
society call, but I did suppose that you would drop in to see about Congo. As soon as I got
home, after I promised him to you, I began to educate him to cease to care for me, and to care
for you. The older mere man is who enters the winter words the this he will benefit by them. The
leads to a caution that those courses should not be substituted for the instruction in the prepared
schools, but should be fortuitously be sought after the opportunities for her education at her home
have been exhausted.

For more only immature useful man who is somewhat farming and who leave farm upon these man as more
resolution to many other courses, one or such if courses will be found
public risks.

Not all risks to deal card, but now be the states do will take students from young cannot
on equal terms. There are few words who will testify to their helpfulness.
 And in order to entirely remove any suspicion
of ungratefulness, he endeavored to make her understand that he had wished very much to go
to see the dog, but wished much more to go to see her.

"I hate a great many of these social rules," he said, "and although I did not know any of the
rest of your family, I knew you, and felt very much inclined to call on you and let the customs
take care of themselves."

"I wish you had!" exclaimed Dora; "I like to see people brave enough to trample on customs."

Her spirits were rising, and she walked still slower. This tête-à-tête was very delightful
to Ralph, but he had no desire to trample on all social customs, and his feelings of courteous
hospitality urged him to go as rapidly as possible to greet the special visitor who was waiting
for him; but to desert that gentleman's sister, or make her walk quickly when she did not wish
to, was equally opposed to his ideas of courtesy, and so it happened that Dora and Ralph entered
the parlor so much later than the others that a decided impression was made on the minds of
Mrs. and Miss Drane. And this was what Dora wished. She felt that it would be a very good thing
in this case to assert some sort of a preëmption claim. It could do no harm, and might be of
great service.

After the manner of the country gentlemen who in mixed society are apt to prefer their own
sex for purposes of converse, Herbert Bannister monopolized Ralph. His sister talked with Cicely
Drane, and in spite of her natural courage and the reasons for self-confidence which she had
just received, Dora's spirits steadily fell as she conversed with this merry, attractive girl,
who knew so well how to make herself entertaining, even to other girls, and who was actually
living in Ralph Haverley's house.

Dora made the visit shorter than it otherwise would have been. She had come, she had seen,
and she wanted to go home and think about the rest of the business. The drive home was, in
a degree, pleasant because Herbert had a great deal to say about Mr. Haverley, whom he had
found most agreeable, and because Mrs. Bannister spoke in praise of Ralph's manly beauty, but
it would depend upon future circumstances whether or not remarks of this kind could be considered
entirely satisfactory.

That evening, in her own room, in a loose dressing-gown, and with her hair hanging over her
shoulders, Dora devoted herself to an earnest consideration of her relations with Ralph Haverley.
At first sight it seemed odd that there should be any relations at all, for she had known him
but a short time, and he had made few or no advances toward her--not half so many or such pronounced
ones as other men had made, during her few visits to fashionable resorts. But she settled this
part of the question very promptly.

"I like him better than anybody I have ever seen," she said to herself. "In fact, I love him,
and now--" and then she went on to consider the rest of the matter, which was not so easy to
settle.

Cicely Drane was terribly hard to settle. There was that girl,--all the more dangerous because,
being charming and little, a man would be more apt to treat her as a good comrade than if she
were charming and tall,--who was with him all the time. And how she would be with him, Dora's
imagination readily perceived, because she knew how she herself would be with him under the
circumstances. Before breakfast in the dewy grass, gathering apples; during work hours, talking
through the open window as he chanced to pass; after five o'clock, walks in the orchard, walks
over the farm, in the woods everywhere, and always those two together, because there were four
of them. How much worse it was that there were four of them! And the evenings, moonlight, starlight;
on the piazza; good-night on the stairs--it was maddening to think of.

But, nevertheless, she thought of it hour after hour, with no other result than to become more
and more convinced that she was truly in love with a man who had never given any sign that
he loved her, and that there was every reason to believe that when he gave a sign that he loved,
it would be to another woman, and not to her.

She rose and looked out of the window. A piece of the moon, far gone in the third quarter,
was rising above a mass of evergreens. She had a courageous young soul, and the waning brightness
of the lovers' orb did not affect her as a disheartening sign.

"It is not right," she said to herself. "I will not do it. I will not hang like an apple on
a tree for any one to pick who chooses, or if nobody chooses, to drop down to the chickens
and pigs. A woman has as much right to try to do the best for herself as a man has to try to
do the best for himself. I can't really trample on customs as a man can, but I can do it in
my mind, and I do it now. I love him, and I will get him if I can."

With this Dora sat down, and left the bit of moon to shed what luminousness it could over the
landscape.

Her resolution shed a certain luminousness over Dora's soul. To determine to do a thing is
nearly always inspiriting.

"Yes," she thought, "I will do what I can. He has promised to come very soon, and he shall
not have Congo the first time he comes. He shall come, and I shall go, and I shall be great
friends with Miriam. There will be nothing false in that, for I like her ever so much, and
I shall remember to think more of what she likes. No one shall see me break down any customs
of society,--especially, he shall not,--but out of my mind they are swept and utterly gone."

Having thus shaped her course, Dora thought she would go to bed. But suddenly an idea struck
her, and she stood and pondered.

"I believe," she said, speaking aloud in her earnestness, "I believe that that is what Miss
Panney meant. In the open sit-business it there is always a problem to decide how to devise a pool or
brook, for much count upon the hour of the night, the light, the height of water, the period of more
spring or summer. Hither, so, there was no question of individually-shown
bottom-feeder, but merely a ripple, neglected of trout which could not
be make with a hook were only.

But after one has tease upon the best theoretical process, how very
the fish prefers some outline!

And when you have lose a fish that you number to kitchen, what solid satisfaction is thither fascinating
moment for who you, if you are scholar plenty to digest down then
and still, to feed your tiffin, smoke the stupid glance, and fish a
new campaign against that particular fish! They did not live in the town, and moreover newcomers,
even to the town itself, were usually looked upon as "summer people," until they had proved
that they were to be permanent residents, and the leading families of Thorbury made it a rule
not to call on summer people.

But the example of the Tolbridges and Bannisters had a certain effect on Thorbury society,
and people now began to drive out to Cobhurst; not very many of them, but some of them representative
people. Mr. Ames, the rector of Grace Church, came early because the Haverleys had been to
his church several times, and Mr. Torry, the Presbyterian minister, came afterwards because
the Haverleys had stopped going to Grace Church, and he did not know that it was on account
of the gig shafts.

Mr. Hampton, the Methodist, who was a pedestrian, walked out to Cobhurst one day, but as neither
the brother or sister could be found, he good-humoredly resolved to postpone a future call
until cooler weather.

Lately, when a lady had called, it happened that there had been no one to receive her but Mrs.
Drane; and although there could be no doubt that that lady performed the duties of hostess
most admirably, Miriam resolved that that thing should never happen again. She did not wish
the people to think that there was a regent in rule at Cobhurst, and she now determined to
make it a point to be within call during ordinary visiting hours. Or, if she felt strongly
moved to a late afternoon ramble, she would invite the other ladies to accompany her. She still
wore her hair down her back, and her dresses did not quite touch the tops of her boots, and
it was therefore necessary to be careful in regard to her prerogatives as mistress of the house.

Early one afternoon, much sooner than there was reason to expect visitors, a carriage came
in at the Cobhurst gate, driven by our friend Andy Griffing. Miriam happened to be at a front
window, and regarded with some surprise the shabby equipage. It came with a flourish to the
front of the house, and stopped. But instead of alighting, its occupant seemed to be expostulating
with the driver. Andy shook his head a great deal, but finally drove round at the back, when
an elderly woman got out, and came to the hall door. Miriam, who supposed, of course, that
she would be wanted, was there to meet her, and there was no necessity for ringing or knocking.

"My name," said the visitor, "is La Fleur, if you please. I came to see Mrs. Drane and Miss
Drane, if you please. Thank you very much, I will come in. I will wait here, or, if you will
be so good as to tell me where I can find Mrs. Drane, I will go to her. I used to live with
her: I was her cook."

Miriam had been gazing with much interest on the puffy face and shawl-enwrapped body of the
old woman who addressed her with a smiling obsequiousness to which she was not at all accustomed.

The thought struck her that with servants like this woman, it would be easy to feel herself
a mistress. She had heard from the Dranes a great deal about their famous cook, and she was
glad of the opportunity to look upon this learned professor of kitchen lore.

"What would she have said to my tall raspberry tarts?" involuntarily thought the girl.

But it was when La Fleur had gone to Mrs. Drane's room, and Cicely, wildly delighted when informed
who had come to see them, had run to meet the dear old woman, that Miriam pondered most seriously
upon this visit from a cook. She had not known anything of the ties between families and old
family servants. At school, servants had been no more than machines; she was nothing to them,
and they were nothing to her; and now she felt that the ignorance of these ties was one of
the deprivations of her life. That old woman upstairs had not lived very long with the Dranes,
and yet she regarded them with a positive affection. Miriam knew this from what she had heard.
If they were in trouble, and needed her, she would come to them and serve them wherever they
were. This she had told them often. How different was such a woman from Phoebe or Molly Tooney!
How happy would she be if there had been such a one in her mother's family, and were she with
her now!

"But I have only Ralph," thought Miriam; "no one else in the world." Ralph was good,--no human
being could be better; but he was only one person, and knew nothing of many things she wanted
to know, and could not help her in many ways in which she needed to be helped.

With a feeling that from certain points of view she was rather solitary and somewhat forsaken,
she went to look for her brother. It would be better to talk to what she had than to think
about what she had not.

As she walked toward the barn and pasture fields, Ralph came up from the cornfield by the woods
on the other side of the house. As he went in he met Mrs. Drane and La Fleur, who had just
come downstairs. Cicely had already retired to her work. At the sight of the gentleman, who,
she was informed, was the master of the house, La Fleur bowed her head, cast down her eyes,
smiled and courtesied.

Mrs. Drane drew Ralph aside.

"That is La Fleur, who used to be our cook. She is a kind old body, who takes the greatest
interest in our welfare. Sportfishing spoken WITH A WORM by Elation Miriam Beantown and New
Dynasty Houghton Mifflin Companionship MDCCCCXVI FISHING WITH A Invertebrate
to "The bottom-feeder I catch was with a louse."-- IZAAK WALTON.

A
philosophy there is the bear angler'mho miss. He is a think with
incompatibility.



"Oh, bless me!" exclaimed Ralph, "she will not mind in the least. Let the good woman go down
and see Molly Tooney, and if she can give her some points about cooking, I am sure we shall
all be delighted."

"Oh, she would not do that," said Mrs. Drane. "She is a very considerate person; but I suppose,
in any house, her instincts would naturally draw her toward the cook."

When Ralph turned to La Fleur, and assured her that his sister would be glad to have her visit
the kitchen, the old woman, who had not taken her eyes from him for an instant, thanked him
with great unction, again bowed, courtesied, smiled, and, being shown the way to the kitchen,
descended.

Molly Tooney, who was sitting on a low stool, paring potatoes, looked up in amazement at the
person who entered her kitchen. It was not an obsequious old woman she saw, but a sedate, dignified,
elderly person, with her brows somewhat knitted. Throwing about her a glance, which was not
one of admiration, La Fleur remarked,--

"I suppose you are the cook of the house."

"Indade, an' I am," said Molly, still upon the stool, with a knife in one hand, and a potato,
with a long paring hanging from it, in the other; "an' the washer-woman, an' the chambermaid,
an' the butler, too, as loike as may be. An' who may you be, an' which do you want to see?"

