"Thou wilt not then refuse me one boon--only one--only a poor life?"

"Ha!--proceed," said King Richard, bending his brows.

"This unhappy Scottish knight--" murmured the Queen.

"Speak not of him, madam," exclaimed Richard sternly; "he dies--his doom is fixed."

"Nay, my royal liege and love, 'tis but a silken banner neglected. Berengaria will give thee
another broidered with her own hand, and rich as ever dallied with the wind. Every pearl I
have shall go to bedeck it, and with every pearl I will drop a tear of thankfulness to my generous
knight."

"Thou knowest not what thou sayest," said the King, interrupting her in anger. "Pearls! can
all the pearls of the East atone for a speck upon England's honour--all the tears that ever
woman's eye wept wash away a stain on Richard's fame? Go to, madam, know your place, and your
time, and your sphere. At present we have duties in which you cannot be our partner."

"Thou hearest, Edith," whispered the Queen; "we shall but incense him."

"Be it so," said Edith, stepping forward.--"My lord, I, your poor kinswoman, crave you for
justice rather than mercy; and to the cry of justice the ears of a monarch should be open at
every time, place, and circumstance."

"Ha! our cousin Edith?" said Richard, rising and sitting upright on the side of his couch,
covered with his long camiscia. "She speaks ever kinglike, and kinglike will I answer her,
so she bring no request unworthy herself or me."

The beauty of Edith was of a more intellectual and less voluptuous cast than that of the Queen;
but impatience and anxiety had given her countenance a glow which it sometimes wanted, and
her mien had a character of energetic dignity that imposed silence for a moment even on Richard
himself, who, to judge by his looks, would willingly have interrupted her.

"My lord," she said, "this good knight, whose blood you are about to spill, hath done, in his
time, service to Christendom. He has fallen from his duty through a snare set for him in mere
folly and idleness of spirit. A message sent to him in the name of one who--why should I not
speak it?--it was in my own--induced him for an instant to leave his post. And what knight
in the Christian camp might not have thus far transgressed at command of a maiden, who, poor
howsoever in other qualities, hath yet the blood of Plantagenet in her veins?"

"And you saw him, then, cousin?" replied the King, biting his lips to keep down his passion.

"I did, my liege," said Edith. "It is no time to explain wherefore. I am here neither to exculpate
myself nor to blame others."

"And where did you do him such a grace?"

"In the tent of her Majesty the Queen."

"Of our royal consort!" said Richard. "Now by Heaven, by Saint George of England, and every
other saint that treads its crystal floor, this is too audacious! I have noticed and overlooked
this warrior's insolent admiration of one so far above him, and I grudged him not that one
of my blood should shed from her high-born sphere such influence as the sun bestows on the
world beneath. But, heaven and earth! that you should have admitted him to an audience by night,
in the very tent of our royal consort!--and dare to offer this as an excuse for his disobedience
and desertion! By my father's soul, Edith, thou shalt rue this thy life long in a monastery!"

"My liege," said Edith, "your greatness licenses tyranny. My honour, Lord King, is as little
touched as yours, and my Lady the Queen can prove it if she think fit. But I have already said
I am not here to excuse myself or inculpate others. I ask you but to extend to one, whose fault
was committed under strong temptation, that mercy, which even you yourself, Lord King, must
one day supplicate at a higher tribunal, and for faults, perhaps, less venial."

"Can this be Edith Plantagenet?" said the King bitterly--"Edith Plantagenet, the wise and the
noble? Or is it some lovesick woman who cares not for her own fame in comparison of the life
of her paramour? Now, by King Henry's soul! little hinders but I order thy minion's skull to
be brought from the gibbet, and fixed as a perpetual ornament by the crucifix in thy cell!"

"And if thou dost send it from the gibbet to be placed for ever in my sight," said Edith, "I
will say it is a relic of a good knight, cruelly and unworthily done to death by" (she checked
herself)--"by one of whom I shall only say, he should have known better how to reward chivalry.
Minion callest thou him?" she continued, with increasing vehemence. "He was indeed my lover,
and a most true one; but never sought he grace from me by look or word--contented with such
humble observance as men pay to the saints. And the good--the valiant--the faithful must die
for this!"

"Oh, peace, peace, for pity's sake," whispered the Queen, "you do but offend him more!"

"I care not," said Edith; "the spotless virgin fears not the raging lion. Let him work his
will on this worthy knight. Edith, for whom he dies, will know how to weep his memory. To me
no one shall speak more of politic alliances to be sanctioned with this poor hand. I could
not--I would not--have been his bride living--our degrees were too distant. But death unites
the high and the low--I am henceforward the spouse of the grave."

The King was about to answer with much anger, when a Carmelite monk entered the apartment hastily,
his head and person muffled in the long mantle and hood of striped cloth of the coarsest texture
which distinguished his order, and, flinging himself on his knees before the King, conjured
him, by every holy word and sign, to stop the execution.

"Now, by both sword and sceptre," said Richard, "the world is leagued to drive me mad!--fools,
women, and monks cross me at every step. How comes he to live still?"

"My gracious liege," said the monk, "I entreated of the Lord of Gilsland to stay the execution
until I had thrown myself at your royal--"

"And he was wilful enough to grant thy request," said the King; "but it is of a piece with
his wonted obstinacy. And what is it thou hast to say? Speak, in the fiend's name!"

"My lord, there is a weighty secret, but it rests under the seal of confession. I dare not
tell or even whisper it; but I swear to thee by my holy order, by the habit which I wear, by
the blessed Elias, our founder, even him who was translated without suffering the ordinary
pangs of mortality, that this youth hath divulged to me a secret, which, if I might confide
it to thee, would utterly turn thee from thy bloody purpose in regard to him."

"Good father," said Richard, "that I reverence the church, let the arms which I now wear for
her sake bear witness. Give me to know this secret, and I will do what shall seem fitting in
the matter. But I am no blind Bayard, to take a leap in the dark under the stroke of a pair
of priestly spurs."

"My lord," said the holy man, throwing back his cowl and upper vesture, and discovering under
the latter a garment of goatskin, and from beneath the former a visage so wildly wasted by
climate, fast, and penance, as to resemble rather the apparition of an animated skeleton than
a human face, "for twenty years have I macerated this miserable body in the caverns of Engaddi,
doing penance for a great crime. Think you I, who am dead to the world, would contrive a falsehood
to endanger my own soul; or that one, bound by the most sacred oaths to the contrary--one such
as I, who have but one longing wish connected with earth, to wit, the rebuilding of our Christian
Zion--would betray the secrets of the confessional? Both are alike abhorrent to my very soul."

"So," answered the King, "thou art that hermit of whom men speak so much? Thou art, I confess,
like enough to those spirits which walk in dry places; but Richard fears no hobgoblins. And
thou art he, too, as I bethink me, to whom the Christian princes sent this very criminal to
open a communication with the Soldan, even while I, who ought to have been first consulted,
lay on my sick-bed? Thou and they may content themselves--I will not put my neck into the loop
of a Carmelite's girdle. And, for your envoy, he shall die the rather and the sooner that thou
dost entreat for him."

"Now God be gracious to thee, Lord King!" said the hermit, with much emotion; "thou art setting
that mischief on foot which thou wilt hereafter wish thou hadst stopped, though it had cost
thee a limb. Rash, blinded man, yet forbear!"

"Away, away," cried the King, stamping; "the sun has risen on the dishonour of England, and
it is not yet avenged.--Ladies and priest, withdraw, if you would not hear orders which would
displease you; for, by St. George, I swear--"

"Swear NOT!" said the voice of one who had just then entered the pavilion.

"Ha! my learned Hakim," said the King, "come, I hope, to tax our generosity."

"I come to request instant speech with you--instant--and touching matters of deep interest."

"First look on my wife, Hakim, and let her know in you the preserver of her husband."

"It is not for me," said the physician, folding his arms with an air of Oriental modesty and
reverence, and bending his eyes on the ground--"it is not for me to look upon beauty unveiled,
and armed in its splendours."

"Retire, then, Berengaria," said the Monarch; "and, Edith, do you retire also;--nay, renew
not your importunities! This I give to them that the execution shall not be till high noon.
Go and be pacified--dearest Berengaria, begone.--Edith," he added, with a glance which struck
terror even into the courageous soul of his kinswoman, "go, if you are wise."

The females withdrew, or rather hurried from the tent, rank and ceremony forgotten, much like
a flock of wild-fowl huddled together, against whom the falcon has made a recent stoop.

They returned from thence to the Queen's pavilion to indulge in regrets and recriminations,
equally unavailing. Edith was the only one who seemed to disdain these ordinary channels of
sorrow. Without a sigh, without a tear, without a word of upbraiding, she attended upon the
Queen, whose weak temperament showed her sorrow in violent hysterical ecstasies and passionate
hypochondriacal effusions, in the course of which Edith sedulously and even affectionately
attended her.

"It is impossible she can have loved this knight," said Florise to Calista, her senior in attendance
upon the Queen's person. "We have been mistaken; she is but sorry for his fate, as for a stranger
who has come to trouble on her account."

"Hush, hush," answered her more experienced and more observant comrade; "she is of that proud
house of Plantagenet who never own that a hurt grieves them. While they have themselves been
bleeding to death, under a mortal wound, they have been known to bind up the scratches sustained
by their more faint-hearted comrades. Florise, we have done frightfully wrong, and, for my
own part, I would buy with every jewel I have that our fatal jest had remained unacted."

CHAPTER XVIII.

     This work desires a planetary intelligence
     Of Jupiter and Sol; and those great spirits
     Are proud, fantastical. It asks great charges
     To entice them from the guiding of their spheres,
     To wait on mortals.
            ALBUMAZAR.

The hermit followed the ladies from the pavilion of Richard, as shadow follows a beam of sunshine
when the clouds are driving over the face of the sun. But he turned on the threshold, and held
up his hand towards the King in a warning, or almost a menacing posture, as he said, "Woe to
him who rejects the counsel of the church, and betaketh himself to the foul divan of the infidel!
King Richard, I do not yet shake the dust from my feet and depart from thy encampment; the
sword falls not--but it hangs but by a hair. Haughty monarch, we shall meet again."

"Be it so, haughty priest," returned Richard, "prouder in thy goatskins than princes in purple
and fine linen."

The hermit vanished from the tent, and the King continued, addressing the Arabian, "Do the
dervises of the East, wise Hakim, use such familiarity with their princes?"

"The dervise," replied Adonbec, "should be either a sage or a madman; there is no middle course
for him who wears the khirkhah, [Literally, the torn robe. The habit of the dervises is so
called.] who watches by night, and fasts by day. Hence hath he either wisdom enough to bear
himself discreetly in the presence of princes; or else, having no reason bestowed on him, he
is not responsible for his own actions."

"Methinks our monks have adopted chiefly the latter character," said Richard. "But to the matter.
In what can I pleasure you, my learned physician?"

"Great King," said El Hakim, making his profound Oriental obeisance, "let thy servant speak
one word, and yet live. I would remind thee that thou owest--not to me, their humble instrument--but
to the Intelligences, whose benefits I dispense to mortals, a life--"

"And I warrant me thou wouldst have another in requital, ha?" interrupted the King.

"Such is my humble prayer," said the Hakim, "to the great Melech Ric--even the life of this
good knight, who is doomed to die, and but for such fault as was committed by the Sultan Adam,
surnamed Aboulbeschar, or the father of all men."

"And thy wisdom might remind thee, Hakim, that Adam died for it," said the King, somewhat sternly,
and then began to pace the narrow space of his tent with some emotion, and to talk to himself.
"Why, God-a-mercy, I knew what he desired as soon as ever he entered the pavilion! Here is
one poor life justly condemned to extinction, and I, a king and a soldier, who have slain thousands
by my command, and scores with my own hand, am to have no power over it, although the honour
of my arms, of my house, of my very Queen, hath been attainted by the culprit. By Saint George,
it makes me laugh! By Saint Louis, it reminds me of Blondel's tale of an enchanted castle,
where the destined knight was withstood successively in his purpose of entrance by forms and
figures the most dissimilar, but all hostile to his undertaking! No sooner one sunk than another
appeared! Wife--kinswoman--hermit--Hakim-each appears in the lists as soon as the other is
defeated! Why, this is a single knight fighting against the whole MELEE of the tournament--ha!
ha! ha!" And Richard laughed aloud; for he had, in fact, begun to change his mood, his resentment
being usually too violent to be of long endurance.

The physician meanwhile looked on him with a countenance of surprise, not unmingled with contempt;
for the Eastern people make no allowance for these mercurial changes in the temper, and consider
open laughter, upon almost any account, as derogatory to the dignity of man, and becoming only
to women and children. At length the sage addressed the King when he saw him more composed:--

"A doom of death should not issue from laughing lips. Let thy servant hope that thou hast granted
him this man's life."

"Take the freedom of a thousand captives instead," said Richard; "restore so many of thy countrymen
to their tents and families, and I will give the warrant instantly. This man's life can avail
thee nothing, and it is forfeited."

"All our lives are forfeited," said the Hakim, putting his hand to his cap. "But the great
Creditor is merciful, and exacts not the pledge rigorously nor untimely."

"Thou canst show me," said Richard, "no special interest thou hast to become intercessor betwixt
me and the execution of justice, to which I am sworn as a crowned king."

"Thou art sworn to the dealing forth mercy as well as justice," said El Hakim; "but what thou
seekest, great King, is the execution of thine own will. And for the concern I have in this
request, know that many a man's life depends upon thy granting this boon."

"Explain thy words," said Richard; "but think not to impose upon me by false pretexts."

"Be it far from thy servant!" said Adonbec. "Know, then, that the medicine to which thou, Sir
King, and many one besides, owe their recovery, is a talisman, composed under certain aspects
of the heavens, when the Divine Intelligences are most propitious. I am but the poor administrator
of its virtues. I dip it in a cup of water, observe the fitting hour to administer it to the
patient, and the potency of the draught works the cure."

"A most rare medicine," said the King, "and a commodious! and, as it may be carried in the
leech's purse, would save the whole caravan of camels which they require to convey drugs and
physic stuff; I marvel there is any other in use."

"It is written," answered the Hakim, with imperturbable gravity, "'Abuse not the steed which
hath borne thee from the battle.' Know that such talismans might indeed be framed, but rare
has been the number of adepts who have dared to undertake the application of their virtue.
Severe restrictions, painful observances, fasts, and penance, are necessary on the part of
the sage who uses this mode of cure; and if, through neglect of these preparations, by his
love of ease, or his indulgence of sensual appetite, he omits to cure at least twelve persons
within the course of each moon, the virtue of the divine gift departs from the amulet, and
both the last patient and the physician will be exposed to speedy misfortune, neither will
they survive the year. I require yet one life to make up the appointed number."

"Go out into the camp, good Hakim, where thou wilt find a-many," said the King, "and do not
seek to rob my headsman of HIS patients; it is unbecoming a mediciner of thine eminence to
interfere with the practice of another. Besides, I cannot see how delivering a criminal from
the death he deserves should go to make up thy tale of miraculous cures."

"When thou canst show why a draught of cold water should have cured thee when the most precious
drugs failed," said the Hakim, "thou mayest reason on the other mysteries attendant on this
matter. For myself, I am inefficient to the great work, having this morning touched an unclean
animal. Ask, therefore, no further questions; it is enough that, by sparing this man's life
at my request, you will deliver yourself, great King, and thy servant, from a great danger."

"Hark thee, Adonbec," replied the King, "I have no objection that leeches should wrap their
words in mist, and pretend to derive knowledge from the stars; but when you bid Richard Plantagenet
fear that a danger will fall upon HIM from some idle omen, or omitted ceremonial, you speak
to no ignorant Saxon, or doting old woman, who foregoes her purpose because a hare crosses
the path, a raven croaks, or a cat sneezes."

"I cannot hinder your doubt of my words," said Adonbec; "but yet let my Lord the King grant
that truth is on the tongue of his servant--will he think it just to deprive the world, and
every wretch who may suffer by the pains which so lately reduced him to that couch, of the
benefit of this most virtuous talisman, rather than extend his forgiveness to one poor criminal?
Bethink you, Lord King, that, though thou canst slay thousands, thou canst not restore one
man to health. Kings have the power of Satan to torment, sages that of Allah to heal--beware
how thou hinderest the good to humanity which thou canst not thyself render. Thou canst cut
off the head, but not cure the aching tooth."

"This is over-insolent," said the King, hardening himself, as the Hakim assumed a more lofty
and almost a commanding tone. "We took thee for our leech, not for our counsellor or conscience-keeper."

"And is it thus the most renowned Prince of Frangistan repays benefit done to his royal person?"
said El Hakim, exchanging the humble and stooping posture in which he had hitherto solicited
the King, for an attitude lofty and commanding. "Know, then," he said, "that: through every
court of Europe and Asia--to Moslem and Nazarene--to knight and lady--wherever harp is heard
and sword worn--wherever honour is loved and infamy detested--to every quarter of the world--will
I denounce thee, Melech Ric, as thankless and ungenerous; and even the lands--if there be any
such--that never heard of thy renown shall yet be acquainted with thy shame!"

"Are these terms to me, vile infidel?" said Richard, striding up to him in fury. "Art weary
of thy life?"

"Strike!" said El Hakim; "thine own deed shall then paint thee more worthless than could my
words, though each had a hornet's sting."

Richard turned fiercely from him, folded his arms, traversed the tent as before, and then exclaimed,
"Thankless and ungenerous!--as well be termed coward and infidel! Hakim, thou hast chosen thy
boon; and though I had rather thou hadst asked my crown jewels, yet I may not, kinglike, refuse
thee. Take this Scot, therefore, to thy keeping; the provost will deliver him to thee on this
warrant."

He hastily traced one or two lines, and gave them to the physician. "Use him as thy bond-slave,
to be disposed of as thou wilt--only, let him beware how he comes before the eyes of Richard.
Hark thee--thou art wise--he hath been over-bold among those in whose fair looks and weak judgments
we trust our honour, as you of the East lodge your treasures in caskets of silver wire, as
fine and as frail as the web of a gossamer."

"Thy servant understands the words of the King," said the sage, at once resuming the reverent
style of address in which he had commenced. "When the rich carpet is soiled, the fool pointeth
to the stain--the wise man covers it with his mantle. I have heard my lord's pleasure, and
to hear is to obey."

"It is well," said the King; "let him consult his own safety, and never appear in my presence
more. Is there aught else in which I may do thee pleasure?"

"The bounty of the King hath filled my cup to the brim," said the sage--"yea, it hath been
abundant as the fountain which sprung up amid the camp of the descendants of Israel when the
rock was stricken by the rod of Moussa Ben Amram."

"Ay, but," said the King, smiling, "it required, as in the desert, a hard blow on the rock
ere it yielded its treasures. I would that I knew something to pleasure thee, which I might
yield as freely as the natural fountain sends forth its waters."

"Let me touch that victorious hand," said the sage, "in token that if Adonbec el Hakim should
hereafter demand a boon of Richard of England, he may do so, yet plead his command."

"Thou hast hand and glove upon it, man," replied Richard; "only, if thou couldst consistently
make up thy tale of patients without craving me to deliver from punishment those who have deserved
it, I would more willingly discharge my debt in some other form."

"May thy days be multiplied!" answered the Hakim, and withdrew from the apartment after the
usual deep obeisance.

King Richard gazed after him as he departed, like one but half-satisfied with what had passed.

"Strange pertinacity," he said, "in this Hakim, and a wonderful chance to interfere between
that audacious Scot and the chastisement he has merited so richly. Yet let him live! there
is one brave man the more in the world. And now for the Austrian. Ho! is the Baron of Gilsland
there without?"

Sir Thomas de Vaux thus summoned, his bulky form speedily darkened the opening of the pavilion,
while behind him glided as a spectre, unannounced, yet unopposed, the savage form of the hermit
of Engaddi, wrapped in his goatskin mantle.

Richard, without noticing his presence, called in a loud tone to the baron, "Sir Thomas de
Vaux, of Lanercost and Gilsland, take trumpet and herald, and go instantly to the tent of him
whom they call Archduke of Austria, and see that it be when the press of his knights and vassals
is greatest around him, as is likely at this hour, for the German boar breakfasts ere he hears
mass--enter his presence with as little reverence as thou mayest, and impeach him, on the part
of Richard of England, that he hath this night, by his own hand, or that of others, stolen
from its staff the Banner of England. Wherefore say to him our pleasure that within an hour
from the time of my speaking he restore the said banner with all reverence--he himself and
his principal barons waiting the whilst with heads uncovered, and without their robes of honour.
And that, moreover, he pitch beside it, on the one hand, his own Banner of Austria reversed,
as that which hath been dishonoured by theft and felony, and on the other, a lance, bearing
the bloody head of him who was his nearest counsellor, or assistant, in this base injury. And
say, that such our behests being punctually discharged we will, for the sake of our vow and
the weal of the Holy Land, forgive his other forfeits."

"And how if the Duke of Austria deny all accession to this act of wrong and of felony?" said
Thomas de Vaux.

"Tell him," replied the King, "we will prove it upon his body--ay, were he backed with his
two bravest champions. Knightlike will we prove it, on foot or on horse, in the desert or in
the field, time, place, and arms all at his own choice."

"Bethink you of the peace of God and the church, my liege lord," said the Baron of Gilsland,
"among those princes engaged in this holy Crusade."

"Bethink you how to execute my commands, my liege vassal," answered Richard impatiently. "Methinks
men expect to turn our purpose by their breath, as boys blow feathers to and fro. Peace of
the church! Who, I prithee, minds it? The peace of the church, among Crusaders, implies war
with the Saracens, with whom the princes have made truce; and the one ends with the other.
And besides, see you not how every prince of them is seeking his own several ends? I will seek
mine also--and that is honour. For honour I came hither; and if I may not win it upon the Saracens,
at least I will not lose a jot from any respect to this paltry Duke, though he were bulwarked
and buttressed by every prince in the Crusade."

De Vaux turned to obey the King's mandate, shrugging his shoulders at the same time, the bluntness
of his nature being unable to conceal that its tenor went against his judgment. But the hermit
of Engaddi stepped forward, and assumed the air of one charged with higher commands than those
of a mere earthly potentate. Indeed, his dress of shaggy skins, his uncombed and untrimmed
hair and beard, his lean, wild, and contorted features, and the almost insane fire which gleamed
from under his bushy eyebrows, made him approach nearly to our idea of some seer of Scripture,
who, charged with high mission to the sinful Kings of Judah or Israel, descended from the rocks
and caverns in which he dwelt in abstracted solitude, to abash earthly tyrants in the midst
of their pride, by discharging on them the blighting denunciations of Divine Majesty, even
as the cloud discharges the lightnings with which it is fraught on the pinnacles and towers
of castles and palaces. In the midst of his most wayward mood, Richard respected the church
and its ministers; and though offended at the intrusion of the hermit into his tent, he greeted
him with respect--at the same time, however, making a sign to Sir Thomas de Vaux to hasten
on his message.

But the hermit prohibited the baron, by gesture, look, and word, to stir a yard on such an
errand; and holding up his bare arm, from which the goatskin mantle fell back in the violence
of his action, he waved it aloft, meagre with famine, and wealed with the blows of the discipline.

"In the name of God, and of the most holy Father, the vicegerent of the Christian Church upon
earth, I prohibit this most profane, bloodthirsty, and brutal defiance betwixt two Christian
princes, whose shoulders are signed with the blessed mark under which they swore brotherhood.
Woe to him by whom it is broken!--Richard of England, recall the most unhallowed message thou
hast given to that baron. Danger and death are nigh thee!--the dagger is glancing at thy very
throat!--"

"Danger and death are playmates to Richard," answered the Monarch proudly; "and he hath braved
too many swords to fear a dagger."

"Danger and death are near," replied the seer, and sinking his voice to a hollow, unearthly
tone, he added, "And after death the judgment!"

"Good and holy father," said Richard, "I reverence thy person and thy sanctity--"

"Reverence not me!" interrupted the hermit; "reverence sooner the vilest insect that crawls
by the shores of the Dead Sea, and feeds upon its accursed slime. But reverence Him whose commands
I speak--reverence Him whose sepulchre you have vowed to rescue--revere the oath of concord
which you have sworn, and break not the silver cord of union and fidelity with which you have
bound yourself to your princely confederates."

"Good father," said the King, "you of the church seem to me to presume somewhat, if a layman
may say so much, upon the dignity of your holy character. Without challenging your right to
take charge of our conscience, methinks you might leave us the charge of our own honour."

"Presume!" repeated the hermit. "Is it for me to presume, royal Richard, who am but the bell
obeying the hand of the sexton--but the senseless and worthless trumpet carrying the command
of him who sounds it? See, on my knees I throw myself before thee, imploring thee to have mercy
on Christendom, on England, and on thyself!"

"Rise, rise," said Richard, compelling him to stand up; "it beseems not that knees which are
so frequently bended to the Deity should press the ground in honour of man. What danger awaits
us, reverend father? and when stood the power of England so low that the noisy bluster of this
new-made Duke's displeasure should alarm her or her monarch?"

"I have looked forth from my mountain turret upon the starry host of heaven, as each in his
midnight circuit uttered wisdom to another, and knowledge to the few who can understand their
voice. There sits an enemy in thy House of Life, Lord King, malign at once to thy fame and
thy prosperity--an emanation of Saturn, menacing thee with instant and bloody peril, and which,
but thou yield thy proud will to the rule of thy duty, will presently crush thee even in thy
pride."

"Away, away--this is heathen science," said the King. "Christians practise it not--wise men
believe it not. Old man, thou dotest."

"I dote not, Richard," answered the hermit--"I am not so happy. I know my condition, and that
some portion of reason is yet permitted me, not for my own use, but that of the Church and
the advancement of the Cross. I am the blind man who holds a torch to others, though it yields
no light to himself. Ask me touching what concerns the weal of Christendom, and of this Crusade,
and I will speak with thee as the wisest counsellor on whose tongue persuasion ever sat. Speak
to me of my own wretched being, and my words shall be those of the maniac outcast which I am."

"I would not break the bands of unity asunder among the princes of the Crusade," said Richard,
with a mitigated tone and manner; "but what atonement can they render me for the injustice
and insult which I have sustained?"

"Even of that I am prepared and commissioned to speak by the Council, which, meeting hastily
at the summons of Philip of France, have taken measures for that effect."

"Strange," replied Richard, "that others should treat of what is due to the wounded majesty
of England!"

"They are willing to anticipate your demands, if it be possible," answered the hermit. "In
a body, they consent that the Banner of England be replaced on Saint George's Mount; and they
lay under ban and condemnation the audacious criminal, or criminals, by whom it was outraged,
and will announce a princely reward to any who shall denounce the delinquent's guilt, and give
his flesh to the wolves and ravens."

"And Austria," said Richard, "upon whom rest such strong presumptions that he was the author
of the deed?"

"To prevent discord in the host," replied the hermit, "Austria will clear himself of the suspicion
by submitting to whatsoever ordeal the Patriarch of Jerusalem shall impose."

"Will he clear himself by the trial by combat?" said King Richard.

"His oath prohibits it," said the hermit; "and, moreover, the Council of the Princes--"

"Will neither authorize battle against the Saracens," interrupted Richard, "nor against any
one else. But it is enough, father--thou hast shown me the folly of proceeding as I designed
in this matter. You shall sooner light your torch in a puddle of rain than bring a spark out
of a cold-blooded coward. There is no honour to be gained on Austria, and so let him pass.
I will have him perjure himself, however; I will insist on the ordeal. How I shall laugh to
hear his clumsy fingers hiss, as he grasps the red-hot globe of iron! Ay, or his huge mouth
riven, and his gullet swelling to suffocation, as he endeavours to swallow the consecrated bread!"

"Peace, Richard," said the hermit--"oh, peace, for shame, if not for charity! Who shall praise
or honour princes who insult and calumniate each other? Alas! that a creature so noble as thou
art--so accomplished in princely thoughts and princely daring--so fitted to honour Christendom
by thy actions, and, in thy calmer mood, to rule her by thy wisdom, should yet have the brute
and wild fury of the lion mingled with the dignity and courage of that king of the forest!"

He remained an instant musing with his eyes fixed on the ground, and then proceeded--"But Heaven,
that knows our imperfect nature, accepts of our imperfect obedience, and hath delayed, though
not averted, the bloody end of thy daring life. The destroying angel hath stood still, as of
old by the threshing-floor of Araunah the Jebusite, and the blade is drawn in his hand, by
which, at no distant date, Richard, the lion-hearted, shall be as low as the meanest peasant."

"Must it, then, be so soon?" said Richard. "Yet, even so be it. May my course be bright, if
it be but brief!"

"Alas! noble King," said the solitary, and it seemed as if a tear (unwonted guest) were gathering
in his dry and glazened eye, "short and melancholy, marked with mortification, and calamity,
and captivity, is the span that divides thee from the grave which yawns for thee--a grave in
which thou shalt be laid without lineage to succeed thee--without the tears of a people, exhausted
by thy ceaseless wars, to lament thee--without having extended the knowledge of thy subjects--without
having done aught to enlarge their happiness."

"But not without renown, monk--not without the tears of the lady of my love! These consolations,
which thou canst neither know nor estimate, await upon Richard to his grave."

"DO I not know, CAN I not estimate the value of minstrel's praise and of lady's love?" retorted
the hermit, in a tone which for a moment seemed to emulate the enthusiasm of Richard himself.
"King of England," he continued, extending his emaciated arm, "the blood which boils in thy
blue veins is not more noble than that which stagnates in mine. Few and cold as the drops are,
they still are of the blood of the royal Lusignan--of the heroic and sainted Godfrey. I am--that
is, I was when in the world--Alberick Mortemar--"

"Whose deeds," said Richard, "have so often filled Fame's trumpet! Is it so?--can it be so?
Could such a light as thine fall from the horizon of chivalry, and yet men be uncertain where
its embers had alighted?"

"Seek a fallen star," said the hermit, "and thou shalt only light on some foul jelly, which,
in shooting through the horizon, has assumed for a moment an appearance of splendour. Richard,
if I thought that rending the bloody veil from my horrible fate could make thy proud heart
stoop to the discipline of the church, I could find in my heart to tell thee a tale, which
I have hitherto kept gnawing at my vitals in concealment, like the self-devoted youth of heathenesse.
Listen, then, Richard, and may the grief and despair which cannot avail this wretched remnant
of what was once a man be powerful as an example to so noble, yet so wild, a being as thou
art! Yes--I will--I WILL tear open the long-hidden wounds, although in thy very presence they
should bleed to death!"

King Richard, upon whom the history of Alberick of Mortemar had made a deep impression in his
early years, when minstrels were regaling his father's halls with legends of the Holy Land,
listened with respect to the outlines of a tale, which, darkly and imperfectly sketched, indicated
sufficiently the cause of the partial insanity of this singular and most unhappy being.

"I need not," he said, "tell thee that I was noble in birth, high in fortune, strong in arms,
wise in counsel. All these I was. But while the noblest ladies in Palestine strove which should
wind garlands for my helmet, my love was fixed--unalterably and devotedly fixed--on a maiden
of low degree. Her father, an ancient soldier of the Cross, saw our passion, and knowing the
difference betwixt us, saw no other refuge for his daughter's honour than to place her within
the shadow of the cloister. I returned from a distant expedition, loaded with spoils and honour,
to find my happiness was destroyed for ever! I too sought the cloister; and Satan, who had
marked me for his own, breathed into my heart a vapour of spiritual pride, which could only
have had its source in his own infernal regions. I had risen as high in the church as before
in the state. I was, forsooth, the wise, the self-sufficient, the impeccable!--I was the counsellor
of councils--I was the director of prelates. How should I stumble?--wherefore should I fear
temptation? Alas! I became confessor to a sisterhood, and amongst that sisterhood I found the
long-loved--the long-lost. Spare me further confession!--A fallen nun, whose guilt was avenged
by self-murder, sleeps soundly in the vaults of Engaddi; while, above her very grave, gibbers,
moans, and roars a creature to whom but so much reason is left as may suffice to render him
completely sensible to his fate!"

"Unhappy man!" said Richard, "I wonder no longer at thy misery. How didst thou escape the doom
which the canons denounce against thy offence?"

"Ask one who is yet in the gall of worldly bitterness," said the hermit, "and he will speak
of a life spared for personal respects, and from consideration to high birth. But, Richard,
I tell thee that Providence hath preserved me to lift me on high as a light and beacon, whose
ashes, when this earthly fuel is burnt out, must yet be flung into Tophet. Withered and shrunk
as this poor form is, it is yet animated with two spirits--one active, shrewd, and piercing,
to advocate the cause of the Church of Jerusalem; one mean, abject, and despairing, fluctuating
between madness and misery, to mourn over my own wretchedness, and to guard holy relics on
which it would be most sinful for me even to cast my eye. Pity me not!--it is but sin to pity
the loss of such an abject; pity me not, but profit by my example. Thou standest on the highest,
and, therefore, on the most dangerous pinnacle occupied by any Christian prince. Thou art proud
of heart, loose of life, bloody of hand. Put from thee the sins which are to thee as daughters--though
they be dear to the sinful Adam, expel these adopted furies from thy breast--thy pride, thy
luxury, thy bloodthirstiness."

"He raves," said Richard, turning from the solitary to De Vaux, as one who felt some pain from
a sarcasm which yet he could not resent; then turned him calmly, and somewhat scornfully, to
the anchoret, as he replied, "Thou hast found a fair bevy of daughters, reverend father, to
one who hath been but few months married; but since I must put them from my roof, it were but
like a father to provide them with suitable matches. Therefore, I will part with my pride to
the noble canons of the church--my luxury, as thou callest it, to the monks of the rule--and
my bloodthirstiness to the Knights of the Temple."

"O heart of steel, and hand of iron," said the anchoret, "upon whom example, as well as advice,
is alike thrown away! Yet shalt thou be spared for a season, in case it so be thou shouldst
turn, and do that which is acceptable in the sight of Heaven. For me I must return to my place.
Kyrie Eleison! I am he through whom the rays of heavenly grace dart like those of the sun through
a burning-glass, concentrating them on other objects, until they kindle and blaze, while the
glass itself remains cold and uninfluenced. Kyrie Eleison!--the poor must be called, for the
rich have refused the banquet--Kyrie Eleison!"

So saying, he burst from the tent, uttering loud cries.

"A mad priest!" said Richard, from whose mind the frantic exclamations of the hermit had partly
obliterated the impression produced by the detail of his personal history and misfortunes.
"After him, De Vaux, and see he comes to no harm; for, Crusaders as we are, a juggler hath
more reverence amongst our varlets than a priest or a saint, and they may, perchance, put some
scorn upon him."

The knight obeyed, and Richard presently gave way to the thoughts which the wild prophecy of
the monk had inspired. "To die early--without lineage--without lamentation! A heavy sentence,
and well that it is not passed by a more competent judge. Yet the Saracens, who are accomplished
in mystical knowledge, will often maintain that He, in whose eyes the wisdom of the sage is
but as folly, inspires wisdom and prophecy into the seeming folly of the madman. Yonder hermit
is said to read the stars, too, an art generally practised in these lands, where the heavenly
host was of yore the object of idolatry. I would I had asked him touching the loss of my banner;
for not the blessed Tishbite, the founder of his order, could seem more wildly rapt out of
himself, or speak with a tongue more resembling that of a prophet.--How now, De Vaux, what
news of the mad priest?"

"Mad priest, call you him, my lord?" answered De Vaux. "Methinks he resembles more the blessed
Baptist himself, just issued from the wilderness. He has placed himself on one of the military
engines, and from thence he preaches to the soldiers as never man preached since the time of
Peter the Hermit. The camp, alarmed by his cries, crowd around him in thousands; and breaking
off every now and then from the main thread of his discourse, he addresses the several nations,
each in their own language, and presses upon each the arguments best qualified to urge them
to perseverance in the delivery of Palestine."

"By this light, a noble hermit!" said King Richard. "But what else could come from the blood
of Godfrey? HE despair of safety, because he hath in former days lived PAR AMOURS? I will have
the Pope send him an ample remission, and I would not less willingly be intercessor had his
BELLE AMIE been an abbess."

As he spoke, the Archbishop of Tyre craved audience, for the purpose of requesting Richard's
attendance, should his health permit, on a secret conclave of the chiefs of the Crusade, and
to explain to him the military and political incidents which had occurred during his illness.

CHAPTER XIX.

     Must we then sheathe our still victorious sword;
     Turn back our forward step, which ever trod
     O'er foemen's necks the onward path of glory;
     Unclasp the mail, which with a solemn vow,
     In God's own house, we hung upon our shoulders--
     That vow, as unaccomplish'd as the promise
     Which village nurses make to still their children,
     And after think no more of?
           THE CRUSADE, A TRAGEDY.

The Archbishop of Tyre was an emissary well chosen to communicate to Richard tidings, which
from another voice the lion-hearted King would not have brooked to hear without the most unbounded
explosions of resentment. Even this sagacious and reverend prelate found difficulty in inducing
him to listen to news which destroyed all his hopes of gaining back the Holy Sepulchre by force
of arms, and acquiring the renown which the universal all-hail of Christendom was ready to
confer upon him as the Champion of the Cross.

But, by the Archbishop's report, it appeared that Saladin was assembling all the force of his
hundred tribes, and that the monarchs of Europe, already disgusted from various motives with
the expedition, which had proved so hazardous, and was daily growing more so, had resolved
to abandon their purpose. In this they were countenanced by the example of Philip of France,
who, with many protestations of regard, and assurances that he would first see his brother
of England in safety, declared his intention to return to Europe. His great vassal, the Earl
of Champagne, had adopted the same resolution; and it could not excite surprise that Leopold
of Austria, affronted as he had been by Richard, was glad to embrace an opportunity of deserting
a cause in which his haughty opponent was to be considered as chief. Others announced the same
purpose; so that it was plain that the King of England was to be left, if he chose to remain,
supported only by such volunteers as might, under such depressing circumstances, join themselves
to the English army, and by the doubtful aid of Conrade of Montserrat and the military orders
of the Temple and of Saint John, who, though they were sworn to wage battle against the Saracens,
were at least equally jealous of any European monarch achieving the conquest of Palestine,
where, with shortsighted and selfish policy, they proposed to establish independent dominions
of their own.

It needed not many arguments to show Richard the truth of his situation; and indeed, after
his first burst of passion, he sat him calmly down, and with gloomy looks, head depressed,
and arms folded on his bosom, listened to the Archbishop's reasoning on the impossibility of
his carrying on the Crusade when deserted by his companions. Nay, he forbore interruption,
even when the prelate ventured, in measured terms, to hint that Richard's own impetuosity had
been one main cause of disgusting the princes with the expedition.

"CONFITEOR," answered Richard, with a dejected look, and something of a melancholy smile--"I
confess, reverend father, that I ought on some accounts to sing CULPA MEA. But is it not hard
that my frailties of temper should be visited with such a penance--that, for a burst or two
of natural passion, I should be doomed to see fade before me ungathered such a rich harvest
of glory to God and honour to chivalry? But it shall NOT fade. By the soul of the Conqueror,
I will plant the Cross on the towers of Jerusalem, or it shall be planted over Richard's grave!"

"Thou mayest do it," said the prelate, "yet not another drop of Christian blood be shed in
the quarrel."

"Ah, you speak of compromise, Lord Prelate; but the blood of the infidel hounds must also cease
to flow," said Richard.

"There will be glory enough," replied the Archbishop, "in having extorted from Saladin, by
force of arms, and by the respect inspired by your fame, such conditions as at once restore
the Holy Sepulchre, open the Holy Land to pilgrims, secure their safety by strong fortresses,
and, stronger than all, assure the safety of the Holy City, by conferring on Richard the title
of King Guardian of Jerusalem."

"How!" said Richard, his eyes sparkling with unusual light. "I--I--I the King Guardian of the
Holy City! Victory itself, but that it is victory, could not gain more--scarce so much, when
won with unwilling and disunited forces. But Saladin still proposes to retain his interest
in the Holy Land?"

"As a joint sovereign, the sworn ally," replied the prelate, "of the mighty Richard--his relative,
if it may be permitted, by marriage."

"By marriage!" said Richard, surprised, yet less so than the prelate had expected. "Ha!--ay--Edith
Plantagenet. Did I dream this? or did some one tell me? My head is still weak from this fever,
and has been agitated. Was it the Scot, or the Hakim, or yonder holy hermit, that hinted such
a wild bargain?"

"The hermit of Engaddi, most likely," said the Archbishop, "for he hath toiled much in this
matter; and since the discontent of the princes has became apparent, and a separation of their
forces unavoidable, he hath had many consultations, both with Christian and pagan, for arranging
such a pacification as may give to Christendom, at least in part, the objects of this holy
warfare."

"My kinswoman to an infidel--ha!" exclaimed Richard, as his eyes began to sparkle.

The prelate hastened to avert his wrath.

"The Pope's consent must doubtless be first attained, and the holy hermit, who is well known
at Rome, will treat with the holy Father."

"How?--without our consent first given?" said the King.

"Surely no," said the Bishop, in a quieting and insinuating tone of voice--"only with and under
your especial sanction."

"My sanction to marry my kinswoman to an infidel!" said Richard; yet he spoke rather in a tone
of doubt than as distinctly reprobating the measure proposed. "Could I have dreamed of such
a composition when I leaped upon the Syrian shore from the prow of my galley, even as a lion
springs on his prey! And now--But proceed--I will hear with patience."

Equally delighted and surprised to find his task so much easier than he had apprehended, the
Archbishop hastened to pour forth before Richard the instances of such alliances in Spain--not
without countenance from the Holy See; the incalculable advantages which all Christendom would
derive from the union of Richard and Saladin by a bond so sacred; and, above all, he spoke
with great vehemence and unction on the probability that Saladin would, in case of the proposed
alliance, exchange his false faith for the true one.

"Hath the Soldan shown any disposition to become Christian?" said Richard. "If so, the king
lives not on earth to whom I would grant the hand of a kinswoman, ay, or sister, sooner than
to my noble Saladin--ay, though the one came to lay crown and sceptre at her feet, and the
other had nothing to offer but his good sword and better heart!"

"Saladin hath heard our Christian teachers," said the Bishop, somewhat evasively--"my unworthy
self, and others--and as he listens with patience, and replies with calmness, it can hardly
be but that he be snatched as a brand from the burning. MAGNA EST VERITAS, ET PREVALEBIT! moreover,
the hermit of Engaddi, few of whose words have fallen fruitless to the ground, is possessed
fully with the belief that there is a calling of the Saracens and the other heathen approaching,
to which this marriage shall be matter of induction. He readeth the course of the stars; and
dwelling, with maceration of the flesh, in those divine places which the saints have trodden
of old, the spirit of Elijah the Tishbite, the founder of his blessed order, hath been with
him as it was with the prophet Elisha, the son of Shaphat, when he spread his mantle over him."

King Richard listened to the Prelate's reasoning with a downcast brow and a troubled look.

"I cannot tell," he said, "How, it is with me, but methinks these cold counsels of the Princes
of Christendom have infected me too with a lethargy of spirit. The time hath been that, had
a layman proposed such alliance to me, I had struck him to earth--if a churchman, I had spit
at him as a renegade and priest of Baal; yet now this counsel sounds not so strange in mine
ear. For why should I not seek for brotherhood and alliance with a Saracen, brave, just, generous--who
loves and honours a worthy foe, as if he were a friend--whilst the Princes of Christendom shrink
from the side of their allies, and forsake the cause of Heaven and good knighthood? But I will
possess my patience, and will not think of them. Only one attempt will I make to keep this
gallant brotherhood together, if it be possible; and if I fail, Lord Archbishop, we will speak
together of thy counsel, which, as now, I neither accept nor altogether reject. Wend we to
the Council, my lord--the hour calls us. Thou sayest Richard is hasty and proud--thou shalt
see him humble himself like the lowly broom-plant from which he derives his surname."

With the assistance of those of his privy chamber, the King then hastily robed himself in a
doublet and mantle of a dark and uniform colour; and without any mark of regal dignity, excepting
a ring of gold upon his head, he hastened with the Archbishop of Tyre to attend the Council,
which waited but his presence to commence its sitting.

The pavilion of the Council was an ample tent, having before it the large Banner of the Cross
displayed, and another, on which was portrayed a female kneeling, with dishevelled hair and
disordered dress, meant to represent the desolate and distressed Church of Jerusalem, and bearing
the motto, AFFLICTAE SPONSAE NE OBLIVISCARIS. Warders, carefully selected, kept every one at
a distance from the neighbourhood of this tent, lest the debates, which were sometimes of a
loud and stormy character, should reach other ears than those they were designed for.

Here, therefore, the princes of the Crusade were assembled awaiting Richard's arrival. And
even the brief delay which was thus interposed was turned to his disadvantage by his enemies,
various instances being circulated of his pride and undue assumption of superiority, of which
even the necessity of the present short pause was quoted as an instance. Men strove to fortify
each other in their evil opinion of the King of England, and vindicated the offence which each
had taken, by putting the most severe construction upon circumstances the most trifling; and
all this, perhaps, because they were conscious of an instinctive reverence for the heroic monarch,
which it would require more than ordinary efforts to overcome.

They had settled, accordingly, that they should receive him on his entrance with slight notice,
and no more respect than was exactly necessary to keep within the bounds of cold ceremonial.
But when they beheld that noble form, that princely countenance, somewhat pale from his late
illness--the eye which had been called by minstrels the bright star of battle and victory--when
his feats, almost surpassing human strength and valour, rushed on their recollection, the Council
of Princes simultaneously arose--even the jealous King of France and the sullen and offended
Duke of Austria--arose with one consent, and the assembled princes burst forth with one voice
in the acclamation, "God save King Richard of England! Long life to the valiant Lion's-heart!"

With a countenance frank and open as the summer sun when it rises, Richard distributed his
thanks around, and congratulated himself on being once more among his royal brethren of the
Crusade.

"Some brief words he desired to say," such was his address to the assembly, "though on a subject
so unworthy as himself, even at the risk of delaying for a few minutes their consultations
for the weal of Christendom and the advancement of their holy enterprise."

The assembled princes resumed their seats, and there was a profound silence.

"This day," continued the King of England, "is a high festival of the church, and it well becomes
Christian men, at such a tide, to reconcile themselves with their brethren, and confess their
faults to each other. Noble princes and fathers of this holy expedition, Richard is a soldier--his
hand is ever readier than his tongue--and his tongue is but too much used to the rough language
of his trade. But do not, for Plantagenet's hasty speeches and ill-considered actions, forsake
the noble cause of the redemption of Palestine--do not throw away earthly renown and eternal
salvation, to be won here if ever they can be won by man, because the act of a soldier may
have been hasty, and his speech as hard as the iron which he has worn from childhood. Is Richard
in default to any of you, Richard will make compensation both by word and action.--Noble brother
of France, have I been so unlucky as to offend you?"

"The Majesty of France has no atonement to seek from that of England," answered Philip, with
kingly dignity, accepting, at the same time, the offered hand of Richard; "and whatever opinion
I may adopt concerning the prosecution of this enterprise will depend on reasons arising out
of the state of my own kingdom--certainly on no jealousy or disgust at my royal and most valorous
brother."

"Austria," said Richard, walking up to the Archduke, with a mixture of frankness and dignity,
while Leopold arose from his seat, as if involuntarily, and with the action of an automaton,
whose motions depended upon some external impulse--"Austria thinks he hath reason to be offended
with England; England, that he hath cause to complain of Austria. Let them exchange forgiveness,
that the peace of Europe and the concord of this host may remain unbroken. We are now joint
supporters of a more glorious banner than ever blazed before an earthly prince, even the Banner
of Salvation. Let not, therefore, strife be betwixt us for the symbol of our more worldly dignities;
but let Leopold restore the pennon of England, if he has it in his power, and Richard will
say, though from no motive save his love for Holy Church, that he repents him of the hasty
mood in which he did insult the standard of Austria."

The Archduke stood still, sullen and discontented, with his eyes fixed on the floor, and his
countenance lowering with smothered displeasure, which awe, mingled with awkwardness, prevented
his giving vent to in words.

The Patriarch of Jerusalem hastened to break the embarrassing silence, and to bear witness
for the Archduke of Austria that he had exculpated himself, by a solemn oath, from all knowledge,
direct or indirect, of the aggression done to the Banner of England.

"Then we have done the noble Archduke the greater wrong," said Richard; "and craving his pardon
for imputing to him an outrage so cowardly, we extend our hand to him in token of renewed peace
and amity. But how is this? Austria refuses our uncovered hand, as he formerly refused our
mailed glove? What! are we neither to be his mate in peace nor his antagonist in war? Well,
let it be so. We will take the slight esteem in which he holds us as a penance for aught which
we may have done against him in heat of blood, and will therefore hold the account between
us cleared."

So saying, he turned from the Archduke with an air rather of dignity than scorn, leaving the
Austrian apparently as much relieved by the removal of his eye as is a sullen and truant schoolboy
when the glance of his severe pedagogue is withdrawn.

"Noble Earl of Champagne--princely Marquis of Montserrat--valiant Grand Master of the Templars--I
am here a penitent in the confessional. Do any of you bring a charge or claim amends from me?"

"I know not on what we could ground any," said the smooth-tongued Conrade, "unless it were
that the King of England carries off from his poor brothers of the war all the fame which they
might have hoped to gain in the expedition."

"My charge, if I am called on to make one," said the Master of the Templars, "is graver and
deeper than that of the Marquis of Montserrat. It may be thought ill to beseem a military monk
such as I to raise his voice where so many noble princes remain silent; but it concerns our
whole host, and not least this noble King of England, that he should hear from some one to
his face those charges which there are enow to bring against him in his absence. We laud and
honour the courage and high achievements of the King of England; but we feel aggrieved that
he should on all occasions seize and maintain a precedence and superiority over us, which it
becomes not independent princes to submit to. Much we might yield of our free will to his bravery,
his zeal, his wealth, and his power; but he who snatches all as matter of right, and leaves
nothing to grant out of courtesy and favour, degrades us from allies into retainers and vassals,
and sullies in the eyes of our soldiers and subjects the lustre of our authority, which is
no longer independently exercised. Since the royal Richard has asked the truth from us, he
must neither be surprised nor angry when he hears one, to whom worldly pomp is prohibited,
and secular authority is nothing, saving so far as it advances the prosperity of God's Temple,
and the prostration of the lion which goeth about seeking whom he may devour--when he hears,
I say, such a one as I tell him the truth in reply to his question; which truth, even while
I speak it, is, I know, confirmed by the heart of every one who hears me, however respect may
stifle their voices."

Richard coloured very highly while the Grand Master was making this direct and unvarnished
attack upon his conduct, and the murmur of assent which followed it showed plainly that almost
all who were present acquiesced in the justice of the accusation. Incensed, and at the same
time mortified, he yet foresaw that to give way to his headlong resentment would be to give
the cold and wary accuser the advantage over him which it was the Templar's principal object
to obtain. He therefore, with a strong effort, remained silent till he had repeated a pater
noster, being the course which his confessor had enjoined him to pursue when anger was likely
to obtain dominion over him. The King then spoke with composure, though not without an embittered
tone, especially at the outset:--

"And is it even so? And are our brethren at such pains to note the infirmities of our natural
temper, and the rough precipitance of our zeal, which may sometimes have urged us to issue
commands when there was little time to hold council? I could not have thought that offences,
casual and unpremeditated like mine, could find such deep root in the hearts of my allies in
this most holy cause; that for my sake they should withdraw their hands from the plough when
the furrow was near the end--for my sake turn aside from the direct path to Jerusalem, which
their swords have opened. I vainly thought that my small services might have outweighed my
rash errors--that if it were remembered that I pressed to the van in an assault, it would not
be forgotten that I was ever the last in the retreat--that, if I elevated my banner upon conquered
fields of battle, it was all the advantage that I sought, while others were dividing the spoil.
I may have called the conquered city by my name, but it was to others that I yielded the dominion.
If I have been headstrong in urging bold counsels, I have not, methinks, spared my own blood
or my people's in carrying them into as bold execution; or if I have, in the hurry of march
or battle, assumed a command over the soldiers of others, such have been ever treated as my
own when my wealth purchased the provisions and medicines which their own sovereigns could
not procure. But it shames me to remind you of what all but myself seem to have forgotten.
Let us rather look forward to our future measures; and believe me, brethren," he continued,
his face kindling with eagerness, "you shall not find the pride, or the wrath, or the ambition
of Richard a stumbling-block of offence in the path to which religion and glory summon you
as with the trumpet of an archangel. Oh, no, no! never would I survive the thought that my
frailties and infirmities had been the means to sever this goodly fellowship of assembled princes.
I would cut off my left hand with my right, could my doing so attest my sincerity. I will yield
up, voluntarily, all right to command in the host--even mine own liege subjects. They shall
be led by such sovereigns as you may nominate; and their King, ever but too apt to exchange
the leader's baton for the adventurer's lance, will serve under the banner of Beau-Seant among
the Templars--ay, or under that of Austria, if Austria will name a brave man to lead his forces.
Or if ye are yourselves a-weary of this war, and feel your armour chafe your tender bodies,
leave but with Richard some ten or fifteen thousand of your soldiers to work out the accomplishment
of your vow; and when Zion is won," he exclaimed, waving his hand aloft, as if displaying the
standard of the Cross over Jerusalem--"when Zion is won, we will write upon her gates, NOT
the name of Richard Plantagenet, but of those generous princes who entrusted him with the means
of conquest!"

The rough eloquence and determined expression of the military monarch at once roused the drooping
spirits of the Crusaders, reanimated their devotion, and, fixing their attention on the principal
object of the expedition, made most of them who were present blush for having been moved by
such petty subjects of complaint as had before engrossed them. Eye caught fire from eye, voice
lent courage to voice. They resumed, as with one accord, the war-cry with which the sermon
of Peter the Hermit was echoed back, and shouted aloud, "Lead us on, gallant Lion's-heart;
none so worthy to lead where brave men follow. Lead us on--to Jerusalem--to Jerusalem! It is
the will of God--it is the will of God! Blessed is he who shall lend an arm to its fulfilment!"

The shout, so suddenly and generally raised, was heard beyond the ring of sentinels who guarded
the pavilion of Council, and spread among the soldiers of the host, who, inactive and dispirited
by disease and climate, had begun, like their leaders, to droop in resolution; but the reappearance
of Richard in renewed vigour, and the well-known shout which echoed from the assembly of the
princes, at once rekindled their enthusiasm, and thousands and tens of thousands answered with
the same shout of "Zion, Zion! War, war! Instant battle with the infidels! It is the will of
God--it is the will of God!"

The acclamations from without increased in their turn the enthusiasm which prevailed within
the pavilion. Those who did not actually catch the flame were afraid--at least for the time--to
seem colder than others. There was no more speech except of a proud advance towards Jerusalem
upon the expiry of the truce, and the measures to be taken in the meantime for supplying and
recruiting the army. The Council broke up, all apparently filled with the same enthusiastic
purpose--which, however, soon faded in the bosom of most, and never had an existence in that
of others.

Of the latter class were the Marquis Conrade and the Grand Master of the Templars, who retired
together to their quarters ill at ease, and malcontent with the events of the day.

"I ever told it to thee," said the latter, with the cold, sardonic expression peculiar to him,
"that Richard would burst through the flimsy wiles you spread for him, as would a lion through
a spider's web. Thou seest he has but to speak, and his breath agitates these fickle fools
as easily as the whirlwind catcheth scattered straws, and sweeps them together, or disperses
them at its pleasure."

"When the blast has passed away," said Conrade, "the straws, which it made dance to its pipe,
will settle to earth again."

"But knowest thou not besides," said the Templar, "that it seems, if this new purpose of conquest
shall be abandoned and pass away, and each mighty prince shall again be left to such guidance
as his own scanty brain can supply, Richard may yet probably become King of Jerusalem by compact,
and establish those terms of treaty with the Soldan which thou thyself thought'st him so likely
to spurn at?"

"Now, by Mahound and Termagaunt, for Christian oaths are out of fashion," said Conrade, "sayest
thou the proud King of England would unite his blood with a heathen Soldan? My policy threw
in that ingredient to make the whole treaty an abomination to him. As bad for us that he become
our master by an agreement, as by victory."

"Thy policy hath ill calculated Richard's digestion," answered the Templar; "I know his mind
by a whisper from the Archbishop. And then thy master-stroke respecting yonder banner--it has
passed off with no more respect than two cubits of embroidered silk merited. Marquis Conrade,
thy wit begins to halt; I will trust thy finespun measures no longer, but will try my own.
Knowest thou not the people whom the Saracens call Charegites?"

"Surely," answered the Marquis; "they are desperate and besotted enthusiasts, who devote their
lives to the advancement of religion---somewhat like Templars, only they are never known to
pause in the race of their calling."

"Jest not," answered the scowling monk. "Know that one of these men has set down in his bloody
vow the name of the Island Emperor yonder, to be hewn down as the chief enemy of the Moslem faith."

"A most judicious paynim," said Conrade. "May Mohammed send him his paradise for a reward!"

"He was taken in the camp by one of our squires, and in private examination frankly avowed
his fixed and determined purpose to me," said the Grand Master.

"Now the heavens pardon them who prevented the purpose of this most judicious Charegite!" answered
Conrade.

"He is my prisoner," added the Templar, "and secluded from speech with others, as thou mayest
suppose; but prisons have been broken--"

"Chains left unlocked, and captives have escaped," answered the Marquis. "It is an ancient
saying, no sure dungeon but the grave."

"When loose, he resumes his quest," continued the military priest; "for it is the nature of
this sort of blood hound never to quit the suit of the prey he has once scented."

"Say no more of it," said the Marquis; "I see thy policy--it is dreadful, but the emergency
is imminent."

"I only told thee of it," said the Templar, "that thou mayest keep thyself on thy guard; for
the uproar will be dreadful, and there is no knowing on whom the English may vent their rage.
Ay, and there is another risk. My page knows the counsels of this Charegite," he continued;
"and, moreover, he is a peevish, self-willed fool, whom I would I were rid of, as he thwarts
me by presuming to see with his own eyes, not mine. But our holy order gives me power to put
a remedy to such inconvenience. Or stay--the Saracen may find a good dagger in his cell, and
I warrant you he uses it as he breaks forth, which will be of a surety so soon as the page
enters with his food."

"It will give the affair a colour," said Conrade; "and yet--"

"YET and BUT," said the Templar, "are words for fools; wise men neither hesitate nor retract--they
resolve and they execute."

CHAPTER XX.

     When beauty leads the lion in her toils,
     Such are her charms, he dare not raise his mane,
     Far less expand the terror of his fangs.
     So great Alcides made his club a distaff,
     And spun to please fair Omphale.
               ANONYMOUS.

Richard, the unsuspicious object of the dark treachery detailed in the closing part of the
last chapter, having effected, for the present at least, the triumphant union of the Crusading
princes in a resolution to prosecute the war with vigour, had it next at heart to establish
tranquillity in his own family; and, now that he could judge more temperately, to inquire distinctly
into the circumstances leading to the loss of his banner, and the nature and the extent of
the connection betwixt his kinswoman Edith and the banished adventurer from Scotland.

Accordingly, the Queen and her household were startled with a visit from Sir Thomas de Vaux,
requesting the present attendance of the Lady Calista of Montfaucon, the Queen's principal
bower-woman, upon King Richard.

"What am I to say, madam?" said the trembling attendant to the Queen, "He will slay us all."

"Nay, fear not, madam," said De Vaux. "His Majesty hath spared the life of the Scottish knight,
who was the chief offender, and bestowed him upon the Moorish physician. He will not be severe
upon a lady, though faulty."

"Devise some cunning tale, wench," said Berengaria. "My husband hath too little time to make
inquiry into the truth."

"Tell the tale as it really happened," said Edith, "lest I tell it for thee."

"With humble permission of her Majesty," said De Vaux, "I would say Lady Edith adviseth well;
for although King Richard is pleased to believe what it pleases your Grace to tell him, yet
I doubt his having the same deference for the Lady Calista, and in this especial matter."

"The Lord of Gilsland is right," said the Lady Calista, much agitated at the thoughts of the
investigation which was to take place; "and besides, if I had presence of mind enough to forge
a plausible story, beshrew me if I think I should have the courage to tell it."

In this candid humour, the Lady Calista was conducted by De Vaux to the King, and made, as
she had proposed, a full confession of the decoy by which the unfortunate Knight of the Leopard
had been induced to desert his post; exculpating the Lady Edith, who, she was aware, would
not fail to exculpate herself, and laying the full burden on the Queen, her mistress, whose
share of the frolic, she well knew, would appear the most venial in the eyes of Coeur de Lion.
In truth, Richard was a fond, almost a uxorious husband. The first burst of his wrath had long
since passed away, and he was not disposed severely to censure what could not now be amended.
The wily Lady Calista, accustomed from her earliest childhood to fathom the intrigues of a
court, and watch the indications of a sovereign's will, hastened back to the Queen with the
speed of a lapwing, charged with the King's commands that she should expect a speedy visit
from him; to which the bower-lady added a commentary founded on her own observation, tending
to show that Richard meant just to preserve so much severity as might bring his royal consort
to repent of her frolic, and then to extend to her and all concerned his gracious pardon.

"Sits the wind in that corner, wench?" said the Queen, much relieved by this intelligence.
"Believe me that, great commander as he is, Richard will find it hard to circumvent us in this
matter, and that, as the Pyrenean shepherds are wont to say in my native Navarre, Many a one
comes for wool, and goes back shorn."

Having possessed herself of all the information which Calista could communicate, the royal
Berengaria arrayed herself in her most becoming dress, and awaited with confidence the arrival
of the heroic Richard.

He arrived, and found himself in the situation of a prince entering an offending province,
in the confidence that his business will only be to inflict rebuke, and receive submission,
when he unexpectedly finds it in a state of complete defiance and insurrection. Berengaria
well knew the power of her charms and the extent of Richard's affection, and felt assured that
she could make her own terms good, now that the first tremendous explosion of his anger had
expended itself without mischief. Far from listening to the King's intended rebuke, as what
the levity of her conduct had justly deserved, she extenuated, nay, defended as a harmless
frolic, that which she was accused of. She denied, indeed, with many a pretty form of negation,
that she had directed Nectabanus absolutely to entice the knight farther than the brink of
the Mount on which he kept watch--and, indeed, this was so far true, that she had not designed
Sir Kenneth to be introduced into her tent--and then, eloquent in urging her own defence, the
Queen was far more so in pressing upon Richard the charge of unkindness, in refusing her so
poor a boon as the life of an unfortunate knight, who, by her thoughtless prank, had been brought
within the danger of martial law. She wept and sobbed while she enlarged on her husband's obduracy
on this score, as a rigour which had threatened to make her unhappy for life, whenever she
should reflect that she had given, unthinkingly, the remote cause for such a tragedy. The vision
of the slaughtered victim would have haunted her dreams--nay, for aught she knew, since such
things often happened, his actual spectre might have stood by her waking couch. To all this
misery of the mind was she exposed by the severity of one who, while he pretended to dote upon
her slightest glance, would not forego one act of poor revenge, though the issue was to render
her miserable.

All this flow of female eloquence was accompanied with the usual arguments of tears and sighs,
and uttered with such tone and action as seemed to show that the Queen's resentment arose neither
from pride nor sullenness, but from feelings hurt at finding her consequence with her husband
less than she had expected to possess.

The good King Richard was considerably embarrassed. He tried in vain to reason with one whose
very jealousy of his affection rendered her incapable of listening to argument, nor could he
bring himself to use the restraint of lawful authority to a creature so beautiful in the midst
of her unreasonable displeasure. He was therefore reduced to the defensive, endeavoured gently
to chide her suspicions and soothe her displeasure, and recalled to her mind that she need
not look back upon the past with recollections either of remorse or supernatural fear, since
Sir Kenneth was alive and well, and had been bestowed by him upon the great Arabian physician,
who, doubtless, of all men, knew best how to keep him living. But this seemed the unkindest
cut of all, and the Queen's sorrow was renewed at the idea of a Saracen--a mediciner--obtaining
a boon for which, with bare head and on bended knee, she had petitioned her husband in vain.
At this new charge Richard's patience began rather to give way, and he said, in a serious tone
of voice, "Berengaria, the physician saved my life. If it is of value in your eyes, you will
not grudge him a higher recompense than the only one I could prevail on him to accept."

The Queen was satisfied she had urged her coquettish displeasure to the verge of safety.

"My Richard," she said, "why brought you not that sage to me, that England's Queen might show
how she esteemed him who could save from extinction the lamp of chivalry, the glory of England,
and the light of poor Berengaria's life and hope?"

In a word, the matrimonial dispute was ended; but, that some penalty might be paid to justice,
both King and Queen accorded in laying the whole blame on the agent Nectabanus, who (the Queen
being by this time well weary of the poor dwarf's humour) was, with his royal consort Guenevra,
sentenced to be banished from the Court; and the unlucky dwarf only escaped a supplementary
whipping, from the Queen's assurances that he had already sustained personal chastisement.
It was decreed further that, as an envoy was shortly to be dispatched to Saladin, acquainting
him with the resolution of the Council to resume hostilities so soon as the truce was ended,
and as Richard proposed to send a valuable present to the Soldan, in acknowledgment of the
high benefit he had derived from the services of El Hakim, the two unhappy creatures should
be added to it as curiosities, which, from their extremely grotesque appearance, and the shattered
state of their intellect, were gifts that might well pass between sovereign and sovereign.

Richard had that day yet another female encounter to sustain; but he advanced to it with comparative
indifference, for Edith, though beautiful and highly esteemed by her royal relative--nay, although
she had from his unjust suspicions actually sustained the injury of which Berengaria only affected
to complain--still was neither Richard's wife nor mistress, and he feared her reproaches less,
although founded in reason, than those of the Queen, though unjust and fantastical. Having
requested to speak with her apart, he was ushered into her apartment, adjoining that of the
Queen, whose two female Coptish slaves remained on their knees in the most remote corner during
the interview. A thin black veil extended its ample folds over the tall and graceful form of
the high-born maiden, and she wore not upon her person any female ornament of what kind soever.
She arose and made a low reverence when Richard entered, resumed her seat at his command, and,
when he sat down beside her, waited, without uttering a syllable, until he should communicate
his pleasure.

Richard, whose custom it was to be familiar with Edith, as their relationship authorized, felt
this reception chilling, and opened the conversation with some embarrassment.

"Our fair cousin," he at length said, "is angry with us; and we own that strong circumstances
have induced us, without cause, to suspect her of conduct alien to what we have ever known
in her course of life. But while we walk in this misty valley of humanity, men will mistake
shadows for substances. Can my fair cousin not forgive her somewhat vehement kinsman Richard?"

"Who can refuse forgiveness to RICHARD," answered Edith, "provided Richard can obtain pardon
of the KING?"

"Come, my kinswoman," replied Coeur de Lion, "this is all too solemn. By Our Lady, such a melancholy
countenance, and this ample sable veil, might make men think thou wert a new-made widow, or
had lost a betrothed lover, at least. Cheer up! Thou hast heard, doubtless, that there is no
real cause for woe; why, then, keep up the form of mourning?"

"For the departed honour of Plantagenet--for the glory which hath left my father's house."

Richard frowned. "Departed honour! glory which hath left our house!" he repeated angrily. "But
my cousin Edith is privileged. I have judged her too hastily; she has therefore a right to
deem of me too harshly. But tell me at least in what I have faulted."

"Plantagenet," said Edith, "should have either pardoned an offence, or punished it. It misbecomes
him to assign free men, Christians, and brave knights, to the fetters of the infidels. It becomes
him not to compromise and barter, or to grunt life under the forfeiture of liberty. To have
doomed the unfortunate to death might have been severity, but had a show of justice; to condemn
him to slavery and exile was barefaced tyranny."

"I see, my fair cousin," said Richard, "you are of those pretty ones who think an absent lover
as bad as none, or as a dead one. Be patient; half a score of light horsemen may yet follow
and redeem the error, if thy gallant have in keeping any secret which might render his death
more convenient than his banishment."

"Peace with thy scurrile jests!" answered Edith, colouring deeply. "Think, rather, that for
the indulgence of thy mood thou hast lopped from this great enterprise one goodly limb, deprived
the Cross of one of its most brave supporters, and placed a servant of the true God in the
hands of the heathen; hast given, too, to minds as suspicious as thou hast shown thine own
in this matter, some right to say that Richard Coeur de Lion banished the bravest soldier in
his camp lest his name in battle might match his own."

"I--I!" exclaimed Richard, now indeed greatly moved--"am I one to be jealous of renown? I would
he were here to profess such an equality! I would waive my rank and my crown, and meet him,
manlike, in the lists, that it might appear whether Richard Plantagenet had room to fear or
to envy the prowess of mortal man. Come, Edith, thou think'st not as thou sayest. Let not anger
or grief for the absence of thy lover make thee unjust to thy kinsman, who, notwithstanding
all thy techiness, values thy good report as high as that of any one living."

"The absence of my lover?" said the Lady Edith, "But yes, he may be well termed my lover, who
hath paid so dear for the title. Unworthy as I might be of such homage, I was to him like a
light, leading him forward in the noble path of chivalry; but that I forgot my rank, or that
he presumed beyond his, is false, were a king to speak it."

"My fair cousin," said Richard, "do not put words in my mouth which I have not spoken. I said
not you had graced this man beyond the favour which a good knight may earn, even from a princess,
whatever be his native condition. But, by Our Lady, I know something of this love-gear. It
begins with mute respect and distant reverence; but when opportunities occur, familiarity increases,
and so--But it skills not talking with one who thinks herself wiser than all the world."

"My kinsman's counsels I willingly listen to, when they are such," said Edith, "as convey no
insult to my rank and character."

"Kings, my fair cousin, do not counsel, but rather command," said Richard.

"Soldans do indeed command," said Edith, "but it is because they have slaves to govern."

"Come, you might learn to lay aside this scorn of Soldanrie, when you hold so high of a Scot,"
said the King. "I hold Saladin to be truer to his word than this William of Scotland, who must
needs be called a Lion, forsooth; he hath foully faulted towards me in failing to send the
auxiliary aid he promised. Let me tell thee, Edith, thou mayest live to prefer a true Turk
to a false Scot."

"No--never!" answered Edith--"not should Richard himself embrace the false religion, which
he crossed the seas to expel from Palestine."

"Thou wilt have the last word," said Richard, "and thou shalt have it. Even think of me what
thou wilt, pretty Edith. I shall not forget that we are near and dear cousins."

So saying, he took his leave in fair fashion, but very little satisfied with the result of
his visit.

It was the fourth day after Sir Kenneth had been dismissed from the camp, and King Richard
sat in his pavilion, enjoying an evening breeze from the west, which, with unusual coolness
on her wings, seemed breathed from merry England for the refreshment of her adventurous Monarch,
as he was gradually recovering the full strength which was necessary to carry on his gigantic
projects. There was no one with him, De Vaux having been sent to Ascalon to bring up reinforcements
and supplies of military munition, and most of his other attendants being occupied in different
departments, all preparing for the re-opening of hostilities, and for a grand preparatory review
of the army of the Crusaders, which was to take place the next day. The King sat listening
to the busy hum among the soldiery, the clatter from the forges, where horseshoes were preparing,
and from the tents of the armourers, who were repairing harness. The voice of the soldiers,
too, as they passed and repassed, was loud and cheerful, carrying with its very tone an assurance
of high and excited courage, and an omen of approaching victory. While Richard's ear drank
in these sounds with delight, and while he yielded himself to the visions of conquest and of
glory which they suggested, an equerry told him that a messenger from Saladin waited without.

"Admit him instantly," said the King, "and with due honour, Josceline."

The English knight accordingly introduced a person, apparently of no higher rank than a Nubian
slave, whose appearance was nevertheless highly interesting. He was of superb stature and nobly
formed, and his commanding features, although almost jet-black, showed nothing of negro descent.
He wore over his coal-black locks a milk-white turban, and over his shoulders a short mantle
of the same colour, open in front and at the sleeves, under which appeared a doublet of dressed
leopard's skin reaching within a handbreadth of the knee. The rest of his muscular limbs, both
legs and arms, were bare, excepting that he had sandals on his feet, and wore a collar and
bracelets of silver. A straight broadsword, with a handle of box-wood and a sheath covered
with snakeskin, was suspended from his waist. In his right hand he held a short javelin, with
a broad, bright steel head, of a span in length, and in his left he led by a leash of twisted
silk and gold a large and noble staghound.

The messenger prostrated himself, at the same time partially uncovering his shoulders, in sign
of humiliation, and having touched the earth with his forehead, arose so far as to rest on
one knee, while he delivered to the King a silken napkin, enclosing another of cloth of gold,
within which was a letter from Saladin in the original Arabic, with a translation into Norman-English,
which may be modernized thus:--

"Saladin, King of Kings, to Melech Ric, the Lion of England. Whereas, we are informed by thy
last message that thou hast chosen war rather than peace, and our enmity rather than our friendship,
we account thee as one blinded in this matter, and trust shortly to convince thee of thine
error, by the help of our invincible forces of the thousand tribes, when Mohammed, the Prophet
of God, and Allah, the God of the Prophet, shall judge the controversy betwixt us. In what
remains, we make noble account of thee, and of the gifts which thou hast sent us, and of the
two dwarfs, singular in their deformity as Ysop, and mirthful as the lute of Isaack. And in
requital of these tokens from the treasure-house of thy bounty, behold we have sent thee a
Nubian slave, named Zohauk, of whom judge not by his complexion, according to the foolish ones
of the earth, in respect the dark-rinded fruit hath the most exquisite flavour. Know that he
is strong to execute the will of his master, as Rustan of Zablestan; also he is wise to give
counsel when thou shalt learn to hold communication with him, for the Lord of Speech hath been
stricken with silence betwixt the ivory walls of his palace. We commend him to thy care, hoping
the hour may not be distant when he may render thee good service. And herewith we bid thee
farewell; trusting that our most holy Prophet may yet call thee to a sight of the truth, failing
which illumination, our desire is for the speedy restoration of thy royal health, that Allah
may judge between thee and us in a plain field of battle."

And the missive was sanctioned by the signature and seal of the Soldan.

Richard surveyed the Nubian in silence as he stood before him, his looks bent upon the ground,
his arms folded on his bosom, with the appearance of a black marble statue of the most exquisite
workmanship, waiting life from the touch of a Prometheus. The King of England, who, as it was
emphatically said of his successor Henry the Eighth, loved to look upon A MAN, was well pleased
with the thews, sinews, and symmetry of him whom he now surveyed, and questioned him in the
lingua franca, "Art thou a pagan?"

The slave shook his head, and raising his finger to his brow, crossed himself in token of his
Christianity, then resumed his posture of motionless humility.

"A Nubian Christian, doubtless," said Richard, "and mutilated of the organ of speech by these
heathen dogs?"

The mute again slowly shook his head, in token of negative, pointed with his forefinger to
Heaven, and then laid it upon his own lips.

"I understand thee," said Richard; "thou dost suffer under the infliction of God, not by the
cruelty of man. Canst thou clean an armour and belt, and buckle it in time of need?"

The mute nodded, and stepping towards the coat of mail, which hung with the shield and helmet
of the chivalrous monarch upon the pillar of the tent, he handled it with such nicety of address
as sufficiently to show that he fully understood the business of an armour-bearer.

"Thou art an apt, and wilt doubtless be a useful knave. Thou shalt wait in my chamber, and
on my person," said the King, "to show how much I value the gift of the royal Soldan. If thou
hast no tongue, it follows thou canst carry no tales, neither provoke me to be sudden by any
unfit reply."

The Nubian again prostrated himself till his brow touched the earth, then stood erect, at some
paces distant, as waiting for his new master's commands.

"Nay, thou shalt commence thy office presently," said Richard, "for I see a speck of rust darkening
on that shield; and when I shake it in the face of Saladin, it should be bright and unsullied
as the Soldan's honour and mine own."

A horn was winded without, and presently Sir Henry Neville entered with a packet of dispatches.
"From England, my lord," he said, as he delivered it.

"From England--our own England!" repeated Richard, in a tone of melancholy enthusiasm. "Alas!
they little think how hard their Sovereign has been beset by sickness and sorrow--faint friends
and forward enemies." Then opening the dispatches, he said hastily, "Ha! this comes from no
peaceful land--they too have their feuds. Neville, begone; I must peruse these tidings alone,
and at leisure."

Neville withdrew accordingly, and Richard was soon absorbed in the melancholy details which
had been conveyed to him from England, concerning the factions that were tearing to pieces
his native dominions--the disunion of his brothers John and Geoffrey, and the quarrels of both
with the High Justiciary Longchamp, Bishop of Ely--the oppressions practised by the nobles
upon the peasantry, and rebellion of the latter against their masters, which had produced everywhere
scenes of discord, and in some instances the effusion of blood. Details of incidents mortifying
to his pride, and derogatory from his authority, were intermingled with the earnest advice
of his wisest and most attached counsellors that he should presently return to England, as
his presence offered the only hope of saving the Kingdom from all the horrors of civil discord,
of which France and Scotland were likely to avail themselves. Filled with the most painful
anxiety, Richard read, and again read, the ill-omened letters; compared the intelligence which
some of them contained with the same facts as differently stated in others; and soon became
totally insensible to whatever was passing around him, although seated, for the sake of coolness,
close to the entrance of his tent, and having the curtains withdrawn, so that he could see
and be seen by the guards and others who were stationed without.

Deeper in the shadow of the pavilion, and busied with the task his new master had imposed,
sat the Nubian slave, with his back rather turned towards the King. He had finished adjusting
and cleaning the hauberk and brigandine, and was now busily employed on a broad pavesse, or
buckler, of unusual size, and covered with steel-plating, which Richard often used in reconnoitring,
or actually storming fortified places, as a more effectual protection against missile weapons
than the narrow triangular shield used on horseback. This pavesse bore neither the royal lions
of England, nor any other device, to attract the observation of the defenders of the walls
against which it was advanced; the care, therefore, of the armourer was addressed to causing
its surface to shine as bright as crystal, in which he seemed to be peculiarly successful.
Beyond the Nubian, and scarce visible from without, lay the large dog, which might be termed
his brother slave, and which, as if he felt awed by being transferred to a royal owner, was
couched close to the side of the mute, with head and ears on the ground, and his limbs and
tail drawn close around and under him.

While the Monarch and his new attendant were thus occupied, another actor crept upon the scene,
and mingled among the group of English yeomen, about a score of whom, respecting the unusually
pensive posture and close occupation of their Sovereign, were, contrary to their wont, keeping
a silent guard in front of his tent. It was not, however, more vigilant than usual. Some were
playing at games of hazard with small pebbles, others spoke together in whispers of the approaching
day of battle, and several lay asleep, their bulky limbs folded in their green mantles.

Amid these careless warders glided the puny form of a little old Turk, poorly dressed like
a marabout or santon of the desert--a sort of enthusiasts, who sometimes ventured into the
camp of the Crusaders, though treated always with contumely, and often with violence. Indeed,
the luxury and profligate indulgence of the Christian leaders had occasioned a motley concourse
in their tents of musicians, courtesans, Jewish merchants, Copts, Turks, and all the varied
refuse of the Eastern nations; so that the caftan and turban, though to drive both from the
Holy Land was the professed object of the expedition, were, nevertheless, neither an uncommon
nor an alarming sight in the camp of the Crusaders. When, however, the little insignificant
figure we have described approached so nigh as to receive some interruption from the warders,
he dashed his dusky green turban from his head, showed that his beard and eyebrows were shaved
like those of a professed buffoon, and that the expression of his fantastic and writhen features,
as well as of his little black eyes, which glittered like jet, was that of a crazed imagination.

"Dance, marabout," cried the soldiers, acquainted with the manners of these wandering enthusiasts,
"dance, or we will scourge thee with our bow-strings till thou spin as never top did under
schoolboy's lash." Thus shouted the reckless warders, as much delighted at having a subject
to tease as a child when he catches a butterfly, or a schoolboy upon discovering a bird's nest.

The marabout, as if happy to do their behests, bounded from the earth, and spun his giddy round
before them with singular agility, which, when contrasted with his slight and wasted figure,
and diminutive appearance, made him resemble a withered leaf twirled round and round at the
pleasure of the winter's breeze. His single lock of hair streamed upwards from his bald and
shaven head, as if some genie upheld him by it; and indeed it seemed as if supernatural art
were necessary to the execution of the wild, whirling dance, in which scarce the tiptoe of
the performer was seen to touch the ground. Amid the vagaries of his performance he flew here
and there, from one spot to another, still approaching, however, though almost imperceptibly,
to the entrance of the royal tent; so that, when at length he sunk exhausted on the earth,
after two or three bounds still higher than those which he had yet executed, he was not above
thirty yards from the King's person.

"Give him water," said one yeoman; "they always crave a drink after their merry-go-round."

"Aha, water, sayest thou, Long Allen?" exclaimed another archer, with a most scornful emphasis
on the despised element; "how wouldst like such beverage thyself, after such a morrice dancing?"

"The devil a water-drop he gets here," said a third. "We will teach the light-footed old infidel
to be a good Christian, and drink wine of Cyprus."

"Ay, ay," said a fourth; "and in case he be restive, fetch thou Dick Hunter's horn, that he
drenches his mare withal."

A circle was instantly formed around the prostrate and exhausted dervise, and while one tall
yeoman raised his feeble form from the ground, another presented to him a huge flagon of wine.
Incapable of speech, the old man shook his head, and waved away from him with his hand the
liquor forbidden by the Prophet. But his tormentors were not thus to be appeased.

"The horn, the horn!" exclaimed one. "Little difference between a Turk and a Turkish horse,
and we will use him conforming."

"By Saint George, you will choke him!" said Long Allen; "and besides, it is a sin to throw
away upon a heathen dog as much wine as would serve a good Christian for a treble night-cap."

"Thou knowest not the nature of these Turks and pagans, Long Allen," replied Henry Woodstall.
"I tell thee, man, that this flagon of Cyprus will set his brains a-spinning, just in the opposite
direction that they went whirling in the dancing, and so bring him, as it were, to himself
again. Choke? He will no more choke on it than Ben's black bitch on the pound of butter."

"And for grudging it," said Tomalin Blacklees, "why shouldst thou grudge the poor paynim devil
a drop of drink on earth, since thou knowest he is not to have a drop to cool the tip of his
tongue through a long eternity?"

"That were hard laws, look ye," said Long Allen, "only for being a Turk, as his father was
before him. Had he been Christian turned heathen, I grant you the hottest corner had been good
winter quarters for him."

"Hold thy peace, Long Allen," said Henry Woodstall. "I tell thee that tongue of thine is not
the shortest limb about thee, and I prophesy that it will bring thee into disgrace with Father
Francis, as once about the black-eyed Syrian wench. But here comes the horn. Be active a bit,
man, wilt thou, and just force open his teeth with the haft of thy dudgeon-dagger."

"Hold, hold--he is conformable," said Tomalin; "see, see, he signs for the goblet--give him
room, boys! OOP SEY ES, quoth the Dutchman--down it goes like lamb's-wool! Nay, they are true
topers when once they begin--your Turk never coughs in his cup, or stints in his liquoring."

In fact, the dervise, or whatever he was, drank--or at least seemed to drink--the large flagon
to the very bottom at a single pull; and when he took it from his lips after the whole contents
were exhausted, only uttered, with a deep sigh, the words, ALLAH KERIM, or God is merciful.
There was a laugh among the yeomen who witnessed this pottle-deep potation, so obstreperous
as to rouse and disturb the King, who, raising his finger, said angrily, "How, knaves, no respect,
no observance?"

All were at once hushed into silence, well acquainted with the temper of Richard, which at
some times admitted of much military familiarity, and at others exacted the most precise respect,
although the latter humour was of much more rare occurrence. Hastening to a more reverent distance
from the royal person, they attempted to drag along with them the marabout, who, exhausted
apparently by previous fatigue, or overpowered by the potent draught he had just swallowed,
resisted being moved from the spot, both with struggles and groans.

"Leave him still, ye fools," whispered Long Allen to his mates; "by Saint Christopher, you
will make our Dickon go beside himself, and we shall have his dagger presently fly at our costards.
Leave him alone; in less than a minute he will sleep like a dormouse."

At the same moment the Monarch darted another impatient glance to the
spot, and all retreated in haste, leaving the dervise on the ground,
unable, as it seemed, to stir a single limb or joint of his body. In a
moment afterward all was as still and quiet as it had been before the
intrusion.
                MACBETH.

For the space of a quarter of an hour, or longer, after the incident related, all remained
perfectly quiet in the front of the royal habitation. The King read and mused in the entrance
of his pavilion; behind, and with his back turned to the same entrance, the Nubian slave still
burnished the ample pavesse; in front of all, at a hundred paces distant, the yeomen of the
guard stood, sat, or lay extended on the grass, attentive to their own sports, but pursuing
them in silence, while on the esplanade betwixt them and the front of the tent lay, scarcely
to be distinguished from a bundle of rags, the senseless form of the marabout.

But the Nubian had the advantage of a mirror from the brilliant reflection which the surface
of the highly-polished shield now afforded, by means of which he beheld, to his alarm and surprise,
that the marabout raised his head gently from the ground, so as to survey all around him, moving
with a well-adjusted precaution which seemed entirely inconsistent with a state of ebriety.
He couched his head instantly, as if satisfied he was unobserved, and began, with the slightest
possible appearance of voluntary effort, to drag himself, as if by chance, ever nearer and
nearer to the King, but stopping and remaining fixed at intervals, like the spider, which,
moving towards her object, collapses into apparent lifelessness when she thinks she is the
subject of observation. This species of movement appeared suspicious to the Ethiopian, who,
on his part, prepared himself, as quietly as possible, to interfere, the instant that interference
should seem to be necessary.

The marabout, meanwhile, glided on gradually and imperceptibly, serpent-like, or rather snail-like,
till he was about ten yards distant from Richard's person, when, starting on his feet, he sprung
forward with the bound of a tiger, stood at the King's back in less than an instant, and brandished
aloft the cangiar, or poniard, which he had hidden in his sleeve. Not the presence of his whole
army could have saved their heroic Monarch; but the motions of the Nubian had been as well
calculated as those of the enthusiast, and ere the latter could strike, the former caught his
uplifted arm. Turning his fanatical wrath upon what thus unexpectedly interposed betwixt him
and his object, the Charegite, for such was the seeming marabout, dealt the Nubian a blow with
the dagger, which, however, only grazed his arm, while the far superior strength of the Ethiopian
easily dashed him to the ground. Aware of what had passed, Richard had now arisen, and with
little more of surprise, anger, or interest of any kind in his countenance than an ordinary
man would show in brushing off and crushing an intrusive wasp, caught up the stool on which
he had been sitting, and exclaiming only, "Ha, dog!" dashed almost to pieces the skull of the
assassin, who uttered twice, once in a loud, and once in a broken tone, the words ALLAH ACKBAR!--God
is victorious--and expired at the King's feet.

"Ye are careful warders," said Richard to his archers, in a tone of scornful reproach, as,
aroused by the bustle of what had passed, in terror and tumult they now rushed into his tent;
"watchful sentinels ye are, to leave me to do such hangman's work with my own hand. Be silent,
all of you, and cease your senseless clamour!--saw ye never a dead Turk before? Here, cast
that carrion out of the camp, strike the head from the trunk, and stick it on a lance, taking
care to turn the face to Mecca, that he may the easier tell the foul impostor on whose inspiration
he came hither how he has sped on his errand.--For thee, my swart and silent friend," he added,
turning to the Ethiopian--"but how's this? Thou art wounded--and with a poisoned weapon, I
warrant me, for by force of stab so weak an animal as that could scarce hope to do more than
raze the lion's hide.--Suck the poison from his wound one of you--the venom is harmless on
the lips, though fatal when it mingles with the blood."

The yeomen looked on each other confusedly and with hesitation, the apprehension of so strange
a danger prevailing with those who feared no other.

"How now, sirrahs," continued the King, "are you dainty-lipped, or do you fear death, that
you daily thus?"

"Not the death of a man," said Long Allen, to whom the King looked as he spoke; "but methinks
I would not die like a poisoned rat for the sake of a black chattel there, that is bought and
sold in a market like a Martlemas ox."

"His Grace speaks to men of sucking poison," muttered another yeoman, "as if he said, 'Go to,
swallow a gooseberry!'"

"Nay," said Richard, "I never bade man do that which I would not do myself."

And without further ceremony, and in spite of the general expostulations of those around, and
the respectful opposition of the Nubian himself, the King of England applied his lips to the
wound of the black slave, treating with ridicule all remonstrances, and overpowering all resistance.
He had no sooner intermitted his singular occupation, than the Nubian started from him, and
casting a scarf over his arm, intimated by gestures, as firm in purpose as they were respectful
in manner, his determination not to permit the Monarch to renew so degrading an employment.
Long Allen also interposed, saying that, if it were necessary to prevent the King engaging
again in a treatment of this kind, his own lips, tongue, and teeth were at the service of the
negro (as he called the Ethiopian), and that he would eat him up bodily, rather than King Richard's
mouth should again approach him.

Neville, who entered with other officers, added his remonstrances.

"Nay, nay, make not a needless halloo about a hart that the hounds have lost, or a danger when
it is over," said the King. "The wound will be a trifle, for the blood is scarce drawn--an
angry cat had dealt a deeper scratch. And for me, I have but to take a drachm of orvietan by
way of precaution, though it is needless."

 Thus spoke Richard, a little ashamed, perhaps, of his own
condescension, though sanctioned both by humanity and gratitude. But
when Neville continued to make remonstrances on the peril to his royal
person, the King imposed silence on him.

"Peace, I prithee--make no more of it. I did it but to show these ignorant, prejudiced knaves
how they might help each other when these cowardly caitiffs come against us with sarbacanes
and poisoned shafts. But," he added, "take thee this Nubian to thy quarters, Neville--I have
changed my mind touching him--let him be well cared for. But hark in thine ear; see that he
escapes thee not--there is more in him than seems. Let him have all liberty, so that he leave
not the camp.--And you, ye beef-devouring, wine-swilling English mastiffs, get ye to your guard
again, and be sure you keep it more warily. Think not you are now in your own land of fair
play, where men speak before they strike, and shake hands ere they cut throats. Danger in our
land walks openly, and with his blade drawn, and defies the foe whom he means to assault; but
here he challenges you with a silk glove instead of a steel gauntlet, cuts your throat with
the feather of a turtle-dove, stabs you with the tongue of a priest's brooch, or throttles
you with the lace of my lady's boddice. Go to--keep your eyes open and your mouths shut--drink
less, and look sharper about you; or I will place your huge stomachs on such short allowance
as would pinch the stomach of a patient Scottish man."

The yeomen, abashed and mortified, withdrew to their post, and Neville was beginning to remonstrate
with his master upon the risk of passing over thus slightly their negligence upon their duty,
and the propriety of an example in a case so peculiarly aggravated as the permitting one so
suspicious as the marabout to approach within dagger's length of his person, when Richard interrupted
him with, "Speak not of it, Neville--wouldst thou have me avenge a petty risk to myself more
severely than the loss of England's banner? It has been stolen--stolen by a thief, or delivered
up by a traitor, and no blood has been shed for it.--My sable friend, thou art an expounder
of mysteries, saith the illustrious Soldan--now would I give thee thine own weight in gold,
if, by raising one still blacker than thyself or by what other means thou wilt, thou couldst
show me the thief who did mine honour that wrong. What sayest thou, ha?"

The mute seemed desirous to speak, but uttered only that imperfect sound proper to his melancholy
condition; then folded his arms, looked on the King with an eye of intelligence, and nodded
in answer to his question.

"How!" said Richard, with joyful impatience. "Wilt thou undertake to make discovery in this
matter?"

The Nubian slave repeated the same motion.

"But how shall we understand each other?" said the King. "Canst thou write, good fellow?"

The slave again nodded in assent.

"Give him writing-tools," said the King. "They were readier in my father's tent than mine;
but they be somewhere about, if this scorching climate have not dried up the ink.--Why, this
fellow is a jewel--a black diamond, Neville."

"So please you, my liege," said Neville, "if I might speak my poor mind, it were ill dealing
in this ware. This man must be a wizard, and wizards deal with the Enemy, who hath most interest
to sow tares among the wheat, and bring dissension into our councils, and--"

"Peace, Neville," said Richard. "Hello to your northern hound when he is close on the haunch
of the deer, and hope to recall him, but seek not to stop Plantagenet when he hath hope to
retrieve his honour."

The slave, who during this discussion had been writing, in which art he seemed skilful, now
arose, and pressing what he had written to his brow, prostrated himself as usual, ere he delivered
it into the King's hands. The scroll was in French, although their intercourse had hitherto
been conducted by Richard in the lingua franca.

"To Richard, the conquering and invincible King of England, this from the humblest of his slaves.
Mysteries are the sealed caskets of Heaven, but wisdom may devise means to open the lock. Were
your slave stationed where the leaders of the Christian host were made to pass before him in
order, doubt nothing that if he who did the injury whereof my King complains shall be among
the number, he may be made manifest in his iniquity, though it be hidden under seven veils."

"Now, by Saint George!" said King Richard, "thou hast spoken most opportunely.--Neville, thou
knowest that when we muster our troops to-morrow the princes have agreed that, to expiate the
affront offered to England in the theft of her banner, the leaders should pass our new standard
as it floats on Saint George's Mount, and salute it with formal regard. Believe me, the secret
traitor will not dare to absent himself from an expurgation so solemn, lest his very absence
should be matter of suspicion. There will we place our sable man of counsel, and if his art
can detect the villain, leave me to deal with him."

"My liege," said Neville, with the frankness of an English baron, "beware what work you begin.
Here is the concord of our holy league unexpectedly renewed--will you, upon such suspicion
as a negro slave can instil, tear open wounds so lately closed? Or will you use the solemn
procession, adopted for the reparation of your honour and establishment of unanimity amongst
the discording princes, as the means of again finding out new cause of offence, or reviving
ancient quarrels? It were scarce too strong to say this were a breach of the declaration your
Grace made to the assembled Council of the Crusade."

"Neville," said the King, sternly interrupting him, "thy zeal makes thee presumptuous and unmannerly.
Never did I promise to abstain from taking whatever means were most promising to discover the
infamous author of the attack on my honour. Ere I had done so, I would have renounced my kingdom,
my life. All my declarations were under this necessary and absolute qualification;--only, if
Austria had stepped forth and owned the injury like a man, I proffered, for the sake of Christendom,
to have forgiven HIM."

"But," continued the baron anxiously, "what hope that this juggling slave of Saladin will not
palter with your Grace?"

"Peace, Neville," said the King; "thou thinkest thyself mighty wise, and art but a fool. Mind
thou my charge touching this fellow; there is more in him than thy Westmoreland wit can fathom.--And
thou, smart and silent, prepare to perform the feat thou hast promised, and, by the word of
a King, thou shalt choose thine own recompense.--Lo, he writes again."

The mute accordingly wrote and delivered to the King, with the same form as before, another
slip of paper, containing these words, "The will of the King is the law to his slave; nor doth
it become him to ask guerdon for discharge of his devoir."

"GUERDON and DEVOIR!" said the King, interrupting himself as he read, and speaking to Neville
in the English tongue with some emphasis on the words. "These Eastern people will profit by
the Crusaders--they are acquiring the language of chivalry! And see, Neville, how discomposed
that fellow looks! were it not for his colour he would blush. I should not think it strange
if he understood what I say--they are perilous linguists."

"The poor slave cannot endure your Grace's eye," said Neville; "it is nothing more."

"Well, but," continued the King, striking the paper with his finger as he proceeded, "this
bold scroll proceeds to say that our trusty mute is charged with a message from Saladin to
the Lady Edith Plantagenet, and craves means and opportunity to deliver it. What thinkest thou
of a request so modest--ha, Neville?"

"I cannot say," said Neville, "how such freedom may relish with your Grace; but the lease of
the messenger's neck would be a short one, who should carry such a request to the Soldan on
the part of your Majesty."

"Nay, I thank Heaven that I covet none of his sunburnt beauties," said Richard; "and for punishing
this fellow for discharging his master's errand, and that when he has just saved my life--methinks
it were something too summary. I'll tell thee, Neville, a secret; for although our sable and
mute minister be present, he cannot, thou knowest, tell it over again, even if he should chance
to understand us. I tell thee that, for this fortnight past, I have been under a strange spell,
and I would I were disenchanted. There has no sooner any one done me good service, but, lo
you, he cancels his interest in me by some deep injury; and, on the other hand, he who hath
deserved death at my hands for some treachery or some insult, is sure to be the very person
of all others who confers upon me some obligation that overbalances his demerits, and renders
respite of his sentence a debt due from my honour. Thus, thou seest, I am deprived of the best
part of my royal function, since I can neither punish men nor reward them. Until the influence
of this disqualifying planet be passed away, I will say nothing concerning the request of this
our sable attendant, save that it is an unusually bold one, and that his best chance of finding
grace in our eyes will be to endeavour to make the discovery which he proposes to achieve in
our behalf. Meanwhile, Neville, do thou look well to him, and let him be honourably cared for.
And hark thee once more," he said, in a low whisper, "seek out yonder hermit of Engaddi, and
bring him to me forthwith, be he saint or savage, madman or sane. Let me see him privately."

Neville retired from the royal tent, signing to the Nubian to follow him, and much surprised
at what he had seen and heard, and especially at the unusual demeanour of the King. In general,
no task was so easy as to discover Richard's immediate course of sentiment and feeling, though
it might, in some cases, be difficult to calculate its duration; for no weathercock obeyed
the changing wind more readily than the King his gusts of passion. But on the present occasion
his manner seemed unusually constrained and mysterious; nor was it easy to guess whether displeasure
or kindness predominated in his conduct towards his new dependant, or in the looks with which,
from time to time, he regarded him. The ready service which the King had rendered to counteract
the bad effects of the Nubian's wound might seem to balance the obligation conferred on him
by the slave when he intercepted the blow of the assassin; but it seemed, as a much longer
account remained to be arranged between them, that the Monarch was doubtful whether the settlement
might leave him, upon the whole, debtor or creditor, and that, therefore, he assumed in the
meantime a neutral demeanour, which might suit with either character. As for the Nubian, by
whatever means he had acquired the art of writing the European languages, the King remained
convinced that the English tongue at least was unknown to him, since, having watched him closely
during the last part of the interview, he conceived it impossible for any one understanding
a conversation, of which he was himself the subject, to have so completely avoided the appearance
of taking an interest in it.

CHAPTER XXII.

     Who's there!--Approach--'tis kindly done--
     My learned physician and a friend.
              SIR EUSTACE GREY.

Our narrative retrogrades to a period shortly previous to the incidents last mentioned, when,
as the reader must remember, the unfortunate Knight of the Leopard, bestowed upon the Arabian
physician by King Richard, rather as a slave than in any other capacity, was exiled from the
camp of the Crusaders, in whose ranks he had so often and so brilliantly distinguished himself.
He followed his new master--for so he must now term the Hakim--to the Moorish tents which contained
his retinue and his property, with the stupefied feelings of one who, fallen from the summit
of a precipice, and escaping unexpectedly with life, is just able to drag himself from the
fatal spot, but without the power of estimating the extent of the damage which he has sustained.
Arrived at the tent, he threw himself, without speech of any kind, upon a couch of dressed
buffalo's hide, which was pointed out to him by his conductor, and hiding his face betwixt
his hands, groaned heavily, as if his heart were on the point of bursting. The physician heard
him, as he was giving orders to his numerous domestics to prepare for their departure the next
morning before daybreak, and, moved with compassion, interrupted his occupation to sit down,
cross-legged, by the side of his couch, and administer comfort according to the Oriental manner.

"My friend," he said, "be of good comfort; for what saith the poet--it is better that a man
should be the servant of a kind master than the slave of his own wild passions. Again, be of
good courage; because, whereas Ysouf Ben Yagoube was sold to a king by his brethren, even to
Pharaoh, King of Egypt, thy king hath, on the other hand, bestowed thee on one who will be
to thee as a brother."

Sir Kenneth made an effort to thank the Hakim, but his heart was too full, and the indistinct
sounds which accompanied his abortive attempts to reply induced the kind physician to desist
from his premature endeavours at consolation. He left his new domestic, or guest, in quiet,
to indulge his sorrows, and having commanded all the necessary preparations for their departure
on the morning, sat down upon the carpet of the tent, and indulged himself in a moderate repast.
After he had thus refreshed himself, similar viands were offered to the Scottish knight; but
though the slaves let him understand that the next day would be far advanced ere they would
halt for the purpose of refreshment, Sir Kenneth could not overcome the disgust which he felt
against swallowing any nourishment, and could be prevailed upon to taste nothing, saving a
draught of cold water.

He was awake long after his Arab host had performed his usual devotions and betaken himself
to his repose; nor had sleep visited him at the hour of midnight, when a movement took place
among the domestics, which, though attended with no speech, and very little noise, made him
aware they were loading the camels and preparing for departure. In the course of these preparations,
the last person who was disturbed, excepting the physician himself, was the knight of Scotland,
whom, about three in the morning, a sort of major-domo, or master of the household, acquainted
that he must arise. He did so, without further answer, and followed him into the moonlight,
where stood the camels, most of which were already loaded, and one only remained kneeling until
its burden should be completed.

A little apart from the camels stood a number of horses ready bridled and saddled, and the
Hakim himself, coming forth, mounted on one of them with as much agility as the grave decorum
of his character permitted, and directed another, which he pointed out, to be led towards Sir
Kenneth. An English officer was in attendance, to escort them through the camp of the Crusaders,
and to ensure their leaving it in safety; and all was ready for their departure. The pavilion
which they had left was, in the meanwhile, struck with singular dispatch, and the tent-poles
and coverings composed the burden of the last camel--when the physician, pronouncing solemnly
the verse of the Koran, "God be our guide, and Mohammed our protector, in the desert as in
the watered field," the whole cavalcade was instantly in motion.

In traversing the camp, they were challenged by the various sentinels who maintained guard
there, and suffered to proceed in silence, or with a muttered curse upon their prophet, as
they passed the post of some more zealous Crusader. At length the last barriers were left behind
them, and the party formed themselves for the march with military precaution. Two or three
horsemen advanced in front as a vanguard; one or two remained a bow-shot in the rear; and,
wherever the ground admitted, others were detached to keep an outlook on the flanks. In this
manner they proceeded onward; while Sir Kenneth, looking back on the moonlit camp, might now
indeed seem banished, deprived at once of honour and of liberty, from the glimmering banners
under which he had hoped to gain additional renown, and the tented dwellings of chivalry, of
Christianity, and--of Edith Plantagenet.

The Hakim, who rode by his side, observed, in his usual tone of sententious consolation, "It
is unwise to look back when the journey lieth forward;" and as he spoke, the horse of the knight
made such a perilous stumble as threatened to add a practical moral to the tale.

The knight was compelled by this hint to give more attention to the management of his steed,
which more than once required the assistance and support of the check-bridle, although, in
other respects, nothing could be more easy at once, and active, than the ambling pace at which
the animal (which was a mare) proceeded.

"The conditions of that horse," observed the sententious physician, "are like those of human
fortune--seeing that, amidst his most swift and easy pace, the rider must guard himself against
a fall, and that it is when prosperity is at the highest that our prudence should be awake
and vigilant to prevent misfortune."

The overloaded appetite loathes even the honeycomb, and it is scarce a wonder that the knight,
mortified and harassed with misfortunes and abasement, became something impatient of hearing
his misery made, at every turn, the ground of proverbs and apothegms, however just and apposite.

"Methinks," he said, rather peevishly, "I wanted no additional illustration of the instability
of fortune though I would thank thee, Sir Hakim, for the choice of a steed for me, would the
jade but stumble so effectually as at once to break my neck and her own."

"My brother," answered the Arab sage, with imperturbable gravity, "thou speakest as one of
the foolish. Thou sayest in thy heart that the sage should have given you, as his guest, the
younger and better horse, and reserved the old one for himself. But know that the defects of
the older steed may be compensated by the energies of the young rider, whereas the violence
of the young horse requires to be moderated by the cold temper of the older."

So spoke the sage; but neither to this observation did Sir Kenneth return any answer which
could lead to a continuance of their conversation, and the physician, wearied, perhaps, of
administering comfort to one who would not be comforted, signed to one of his retinue.

"Hassan," he said, "hast thou nothing wherewith to beguile the way?"

Hassan, story-teller and poet by profession, spurred up, upon this summons, to exercise his
calling. "Lord of the palace of life," he said, addressing the physician, "thou, before whom
the angel Azrael spreadeth his wings for flight--thou, wiser than Solimaun Ben Daoud, upon
whose signet was inscribed the REAL NAME which controls the spirits of the elements--forbid
it, Heaven, that while thou travellest upon the track of benevolence, bearing healing and hope
wherever thou comest, thine own course should be saddened for lack of the tale and of the song.
Behold, while thy servant is at thy side, he will pour forth the treasures of his memory, as
the fountain sendeth her stream beside the pathway, for the refreshment or him that walketh
thereon."

After this exordium, Hassan uplifted his voice, and began a tale of love and magic, intermixed
with feats of warlike achievement, and ornamented with abundant quotations from the Persian
poets, with whose compositions the orator seemed familiar. The retinue of the physician, such
excepted as were necessarily detained in attendance on the camels, thronged up to the narrator,
and pressed as close as deference for their master permitted, to enjoy the delight which the
inhabitants of the East have ever derived from this species of exhibition.

At another time, notwithstanding his imperfect knowledge of the language, Sir Kenneth might
have been interested in the recitation, which, though dictated by a more extravagant imagination,
and expressed in more inflated and metaphorical language, bore yet a strong resemblance to
the romances of chivalry then so fashionable in Europe. But as matters stood with him, he was
scarcely even sensible that a man in the centre of the cavalcade recited and sung, in a low
tone, for nearly two hours, modulating his voice to the various moods of passion introduced
into the tale, and receiving, in return, now low murmurs of applause, now muttered expressions
of wonder, now sighs and tears, and sometimes, what it was far more difficult to extract from
such an audience, a tribute of smiles, and even laughter.

During the recitation, the attention of the exile, however abstracted by his own deep sorrow,
was occasionally awakened by the low wail of a dog, secured in a wicker enclosure suspended
on one of the camels, which, as an experienced woodsman, he had no hesitation in recognizing
to be that of his own faithful hound; and from the plaintive tone of the animal, he had no
doubt that he was sensible of his master's vicinity, and, in his way, invoking his assistance
for liberty and rescue.

"Alas! poor Roswal," he said, "thou callest for aid and sympathy upon one in stricter bondage
than thou thyself art. I will not seem to heed thee or return thy affection, since it would
serve but to load our parting with yet more bitterness."

Thus passed the hours of night and the space of dim hazy dawn which forms the twilight of a
Syrian morning. But when the very first line of the sun's disk began to rise above the level
horizon, and when the very first level ray shot glimmering in dew along the surface of the
desert, which the travellers had now attained, the sonorous voice of El Hakim himself overpowered
and cut short the narrative of the tale-teller, while he caused to resound along the sands
the solemn summons, which the muezzins thunder at morning from the minaret of every mosque.

"To prayer--to prayer! God is the one God.--To prayer--to prayer! Mohammed is the Prophet of
God.--To prayer--to prayer! Time is flying from you.--To prayer--to prayer! Judgment is drawing
nigh to you."

In an instant each Moslem cast himself from his horse, turned his face towards Mecca, and performed
with sand an imitation of those ablutions, which were elsewhere required to be made with water,
while each individual, in brief but fervent ejaculations, recommended himself to the care,
and his sins to the forgiveness, of God and the Prophet.

Even Sir Kenneth, whose reason at once and prejudices were offended by seeing his companions
in that which he considered as an act of idolatry, could not help respecting the sincerity
of their misguided zeal, and being stimulated by their fervour to apply supplications to Heaven
in a purer form, wondering, meanwhile, what new-born feelings could teach him to accompany
in prayer, though with varied invocation, those very Saracens, whose heathenish worship he
had conceived a crime dishonourable to the land in which high miracles had been wrought, and
where the day-star of redemption had arisen.

The act of devotion, however, though rendered in such strange society, burst purely from his
natural feelings of religious duty, and had its usual effect in composing the spirits which
had been long harassed by so rapid a succession of calamities. The sincere and earnest approach
of the Christian to the throne of the Almighty teaches the best lesson of patience under affliction;
since wherefore should we mock the Deity with supplications, when we insult him by murmuring
under His decrees? or how, while our prayers have in every word admitted the vanity and nothingness
of the things of time in comparison to those of eternity, should we hope to deceive the Searcher
of Hearts, by permitting the world and worldly passions to reassume the reins even immediately
after a solemn address to Heaven! But Sir Kenneth was not of these. He felt himself comforted
and strengthened, and better prepared to execute or submit to whatever his destiny might call
upon him to do or to suffer.

Meanwhile, the party of Saracens regained their saddles, and continued their route, and the
tale-teller, Hassan, resumed the thread of his narrative; but it was no longer to the same
attentive audience. A horseman, who had ascended some high ground on the right hand of the
little column, had returned on a speedy gallop to El Hakim, and communicated with him. Four
or five more cavaliers had then been dispatched, and the little band, which might consist of
about twenty or thirty persons, began to follow them with their eyes, as men from whose gestures,
and advance or retreat, they were to augur good or evil. Hassan, finding his audience inattentive,
or being himself attracted by the dubious appearances on the flank, stinted in his song; and
the march became silent, save when a camel-driver called out to his patient charge, or some
anxious follower of the Hakim communicated with his next neighbour in a hurried and low whisper.

This suspense continued until they had rounded a ridge, composed of hillocks of sand, which
concealed from their main body the object that had created this alarm among their scouts. Sir
Kenneth could now see, at the distance of a mile or more, a dark object moving rapidly on the
bosom of the desert, which his experienced eye recognized for a party of cavalry, much superior
to their own in numbers, and, from the thick and frequent flashes which flung back the level
beams of the rising sun, it was plain that these were Europeans in their complete panoply.

The anxious looks which the horsemen of El Hakim now cast upon their leader seemed to indicate
deep apprehension; while he, with gravity as undisturbed as when he called his followers to
prayer, detached two of his best-mounted cavaliers, with instructions to approach as closely
as prudence permitted to these travellers of the desert, and observe more minutely their numbers,
their character, and, if possible, their purpose. The approach of danger, or what was feared
as such, was like a stimulating draught to one in apathy, and recalled Sir Kenneth to himself
and his situation.

"What fear you from these Christian horsemen, for such they seem?" he said to the Hakim.

"Fear!" said El Hakim, repeating the word disdainfully. "The sage fears nothing but Heaven,
but ever expects from wicked men the worst which they can do."

"They are Christians," said Sir Kenneth, "and it is the time of truce--why should you fear
a breach of faith?"

"They are the priestly soldiers of the Temple," answered El Hakim, "whose vow limits them to
know neither truce nor faith with the worshippers of Islam. May the Prophet blight them, both
root, branch, and twig! Their peace is war, and their faith is falsehood. Other invaders of
Palestine have their times and moods of courtesy. The lion Richard will spare when he has conquered,
the eagle Philip will close his wing when he has stricken a prey, even the Austrian bear will
sleep when he is gorged; but this horde of ever-hungry wolves know neither pause nor satiety
in their rapine. Seest thou not that they are detaching a party from their main body, and that
they take an eastern direction? Yon are their pages and squires, whom they train up in their
accursed mysteries, and whom, as lighter mounted, they send to cut us off from our watering-place.
But they will be disappointed. I know the war of the desert yet better than they."

He spoke a few words to his principal officer, and his whole demeanour and countenance was
at once changed from the solemn repose of an Eastern sage accustomed more to contemplation
than to action, into the prompt and proud expression of a gallant soldier whose energies are
roused by the near approach of a danger which he at once foresees and despises.

To Sir Kenneth's eyes the approaching crisis had a different aspect, and when Adonbec said
to him, "Thou must tarry close by my side," he answered solemnly in the negative.

"Yonder," he said, "are my comrades in arms--the men in whose society I have vowed to fight
or fall. On their banner gleams the sign of our most blessed redemption--I cannot fly from
the Cross in company with the Crescent."

"Fool!" said the Hakim; "their first action would be to do thee to death, were it only to conceal
their breach of the truce."

"Of that I must take my chance," replied Sir Kenneth; "but I wear not the bonds of the infidels
an instant longer than I can cast them from me."

"Then will I compel thee to follow me," said El Hakim.

"Compel!" answered Sir Kenneth angrily. "Wert thou not my benefactor, or one who has showed
will to be such, and were it not that it is to thy confidence I owe the freedom of these hands,
which thou mightst have loaded with fetters, I would show thee that, unarmed as I am, compulsion
would be no easy task."

"Enough, enough," replied the Arabian physician, "we lose time even when it is becoming precious."

So saying, he threw his arm aloft, and uttered a loud and shrill cry, as a signal to his retinue,
who instantly dispersed themselves on the face of the desert, in as many different directions
as a chaplet of beads when the string is broken. Sir Kenneth had no time to note what ensued;
for, at the same instant, the Hakim seized the rein of his steed, and putting his own to its
mettle, both sprung forth at once with the suddenness of light, and at a pitch of velocity
which almost deprived the Scottish knight of the power of respiration, and left him absolutely
incapable, had he been desirous, to have checked the career of his guide. Practised as Sir
Kenneth was in horsemanship from his earliest youth, the speediest horse he had ever mounted
was a tortoise in comparison to those of the Arabian sage. They spurned the sand from behind
them; they seemed to devour the desert before them; miles flew away with minutes--and yet their
strength seemed unabated, and their respiration as free as when they first started upon the
wonderful race. The motion, too, as easy as it was swift, seemed more like flying through the
air than riding on the earth, and was attended with no unpleasant sensation, save the awe naturally
felt by one who is moving at such astonishing speed, and the difficulty of breathing occasioned
by their passing through the air so rapidly.

It was not until after an hour of this portentous motion, and when all human pursuit was far,
far behind, that the Hakim at length relaxed his speed, and, slackening the pace of the horses
into a hand-gallop, began, in a voice as composed and even as if he had been walking for the
last hour, a descant upon the excellence of his coursers to the Scot, who, breathless, half
blind, half deaf, and altogether giddy; from the rapidity of this singular ride, hardly comprehended
the words which flowed so freely from his companion.

"These horses," he said, "are of the breed called the Winged, equal in speed to aught excepting
the Borak of the Prophet. They are fed on the golden barley of Yemen, mixed with spices and
with a small portion of dried sheep's flesh. Kings have given provinces to possess them, and
their age is active as their youth. Thou, Nazarene, art the first, save a true believer, that
ever had beneath his loins one of this noble race, a gift of the Prophet himself to the blessed
Ali, his kinsman and lieutenant, well called the Lion of God. Time lays his touch so lightly
on these generous steeds, that the mare on which thou now sittest has seen five times five
years pass over her, yet retains her pristine speed and vigour, only that in the career the
support of a bridle, managed by a hand more experienced than thine, hath now become necessary.
May the Prophet be blessed, who hath bestowed on the true believers the means of advance and
retreat, which causeth their iron-clothed enemies to be worn out with their own ponderous weight!
How the horses of yonder dog Templars must have snorted and blown, when they had toiled fetlock-deep
in the desert for one-twentieth part of the space which these brave steeds have left behind
them, without one thick pant, or a drop of moisture upon their sleek and velvet coats!"

The Scottish knight, who had now begun to recover his breath and powers of attention, could
not help acknowledging in his heart the advantage possessed by these Eastern warriors in a
race of animals, alike proper for advance or retreat, and so admirably adapted to the level
and sandy deserts of Arabia and Syria. But he did not choose to augment the pride of the Moslem
by acquiescing in his proud claim of superiority, and therefore suffered the conversation to
drop, and, looking around him, could now, at the more moderate pace at which they moved, distinguish
that he was in a country not unknown to him.

The blighted borders and sullen waters of the Dead Sea, the ragged and precipitous chain of
mountains arising on the left, the two or three palms clustered together, forming the single
green speck on the bosom of the waste wilderness--objects which, once seen, were scarcely to
be forgotten--showed to Sir Kenneth that they were approaching the fountain called the Diamond
of the Desert, which had been the scene of his interview on a former occasion with the Saracen
Emir Sheerkohf, or Ilderim. In a few minutes they checked their horses beside the spring, and
the Hakim invited Sir Kenneth to descend from horseback and repose himself as in a place of
safety. They unbridled their steeds, El Hakim observing that further care of them was unnecessary,
since they would be speedily joined by some of the best mounted among his slaves, who would
do what further was needful.

"Meantime," he said, spreading some food on the grass, "eat and drink, and be not discouraged.
Fortune may raise up or abase the ordinary mortal, but the sage and the soldier should have
minds beyond her control."

The Scottish knight endeavoured to testify his thanks by showing himself docile; but though
he strove to eat out of complaisance, the singular contrast between his present situation and
that which he had occupied on the same spot when the envoy of princes and the victor in combat,
came like a cloud over his mind, and fasting, lassitude, and fatigue oppressed his bodily powers.
El Hakim examined his hurried pulse, his red and inflamed eye, his heated hand, and his shortened
respiration.

"The mind," he said, "grows wise by watching, but her sister the body, of coarser materials,
needs the support of repose. Thou must sleep; and that thou mayest do so to refreshment, thou
must take a draught mingled with this elixir."

He drew from his bosom a small crystal vial, cased in silver filigree-work, and dropped into
a little golden drinking-cup a small portion of a dark-coloured fluid.

"This," he said, "is one of those productions which Allah hath sent on earth for a blessing,
though man's weakness and wickedness have sometimes converted it into a curse. It is powerful
as the wine-cup of the Nazarene to drop the curtain on the sleepless eye, and to relieve the
burden of the overloaded bosom; but when applied to the purposes of indulgence and debauchery,
it rends the nerves, destroys the strength, weakens the intellect, and undermines life. But
fear not thou to use its virtues in the time of need, for the wise man warms him by the same
firebrand with which the madman burneth the tent." [Some preparation of opium seems to be intimated.]

"I have seen too much of thy skill, sage Hakim," said Sir Kenneth, "to debate thine hest;"
and swallowed the narcotic, mingled as it was with some water from the spring, then wrapped
him in the haik, or Arab cloak, which had been fastened to his saddle-pommel, and, according
to the directions of the physician, stretched himself at ease in the shade to await the promised
repose. Sleep came not at first, but in her stead a train of pleasing yet not rousing or awakening
sensations. A state ensued in which, still conscious of his own identity and his own condition,
the knight felt enabled to consider them not only without alarm and sorrow, but as composedly
as he might have viewed the story of his misfortunes acted upon a stage--or rather as a disembodied
spirit might regard the transactions of its past existence. From this state of repose, amounting
almost to apathy respecting the past, his thoughts were carried forward to the future, which,
in spite of all that existed to overcloud the prospect, glittered with such hues as, under
much happier auspices, his unstimulated imagination had not been able to produce, even in its
most exalted state. Liberty, fame, successful love, appeared to be the certain and not very
distant prospect of the enslaved exile, the dishonoured knight, even of the despairing lover
who had placed his hopes of happiness so far beyond the prospect of chance, in her wildest
possibilities, serving to countenance his wishes. Gradually as the intellectual sight became
overclouded, these gay visions became obscure, like the dying hues of sunset, until they were
at last lost in total oblivion; and Sir Kenneth lay extended at the feet of El Hakim, to all
appearance, but for his deep respiration, as inanimate a corpse as if life had actually departed.

CHAPTER XXIII.

     'Mid these wild scenes Enchantment waves her hand,
     To change the face of the mysterious land;
     Till the bewildering scenes around us seem
     The Vain productions of a feverish dream.
        ASTOLPHO, A ROMANCE.

When the Knight of the Leopard awoke from his long and profound repose, he found himself in
circumstances so different from those in which he had lain down to sleep, that he doubted whether
he was not still dreaming, or whether the scene had not been changed by magic. Instead of the
damp grass, he lay on a couch of more than Oriental luxury; and some kind hands had, during
his repose, stripped him of the cassock of chamois which he wore under his armour, and substituted
a night-dress of the finest linen and a loose gown of silk. He had been canopied only by the
palm-trees of the desert, but now he lay beneath a silken pavilion, which blazed with the richest
colours of the Chinese loom, while a slight curtain of gauze, displayed around his couch, was
calculated to protect his repose from the insects, to which he had, ever since his arrival
in these climates, been a constant and passive prey. He looked around, as if to convince himself
that he was actually awake; and all that fell beneath his eye partook of the splendour of his
dormitory. A portable bath of cedar, lined with silver, was ready for use, and steamed with
the odours which had been used in preparing it. On a small stand of ebony beside the couch
stood a silver vase, containing sherbet of the most exquisite quality, cold as snow, and which
the thirst that followed the use of the strong narcotic rendered peculiarly delicious. Still
further to dispel the dregs of intoxication which it had left behind, the knight resolved to
use the bath, and experienced in doing so a delightful refreshment. Having dried himself with
napkins of the Indian wool, he would willingly have resumed his own coarse garments, that he
might go forth to see whether the world was as much changed without as within the place of
his repose. These, however, were nowhere to be seen, but in their place he found a Saracen
dress of rich materials, with sabre and poniard, and all befitting an emir of distinction.
He was able to suggest no motive to himself for this exuberance of care, excepting a suspicion
that these attentions were intended to shake him in his religious profession--as indeed it
was well known that the high esteem of the European knowledge and courage made the Soldan unbounded
in his gifts to those who, having become his prisoners, had been induced to take the turban.
Sir Kenneth, therefore, crossing himself devoutly, resolved to set all such snares at defiance;
and that he might do so the more firmly, conscientiously determined to avail himself as moderately
as possible of the attentions and luxuries thus liberally heaped upon him. Still, however,
he felt his head oppressed and sleepy; and aware, too, that his undress was not fit for appearing
abroad, he reclined upon the couch, and was again locked in the arms of slumber.

But this time his rest was not unbroken, for he was awakened by the voice of the physician
at the door of the tent, inquiring after his health, and whether he had rested sufficiently.
"May I enter your tent?" he concluded, "for the curtain is drawn before the entrance."

"The master," replied Sir Kenneth, determined to show that he was not surprised into forgetfulness
of his own condition, "need demand no permission to enter the tent of the slave."

"But if I come not as a master?" said El Hakim, still without entering.

"The physician," answered the knight, "hath free access to the bedside of his patient."

"Neither come I now as a physician," replied El Hakim; "and therefore I still request permission,
ere I come under the covering of thy tent."

"Whoever comes as a friend," said Sir Kenneth, "and such thou hast hitherto shown thyself to
me, the habitation of the friend is ever open to him."

"Yet once again," said the Eastern sage, after the periphrastical manner of his countrymen,
"supposing that I come not as a friend?"

"Come as thou wilt," said the Scottish knight, somewhat impatient of this circumlocution; "be
what thou wilt--thou knowest well it is neither in my power nor my inclination to refuse thee
entrance."

"I come, then," said El Hakim, "as your ancient foe, but a fair and a generous one."

He entered as he spoke; and when he stood before the bedside of Sir Kenneth, the voice continued
to be that of Adonbec, the Arabian physician, but the form, dress, and features were those
of Ilderim of Kurdistan, called Sheerkohf. Sir Kenneth gazed upon him as if he expected the
vision to depart, like something created by his imagination.

"Doth it so surprise thee," said Ilderim, "and thou an approved warrior, to see that a soldier
knows somewhat of the art of healing? I say to thee, Nazarene, that an accomplished cavalier
should know how to dress his steed, as well as how to ride him; how to forge his sword upon
the stithy, as well as how to use it in battle; how to burnish his arms, as well as how to
wear them; and, above all, how to cure wounds, as well as how to inflict them."

As he spoke, the Christian knight repeatedly shut his eyes, and while they remained closed,
the idea of the Hakim, with his long, flowing dark robes, high Tartar cap, and grave gestures
was present to his imagination; but so soon as he opened them, the graceful and richly-gemmed
turban, the light hauberk of steel rings entwisted with silver, which glanced brilliantly as
it obeyed every inflection of the body, the features freed from their formal expression, less
swarthy, and no longer shadowed by the mass of hair (now limited to a well-trimmed beard),
announced the soldier and not the sage.

"Art thou still so much surprised," said the Emir, "and hast thou walked in the world with
such little observance, as to wonder that men are not always what they seem? Thou thyself--art
thou what thou seemest?"

"No, by Saint Andrew!" exclaimed the knight; "for to the whole Christian camp I seem a traitor,
and I know myself to be a true though an erring man."

"Even so I judged thee," said Ilderim; "and as we had eaten salt together, I deemed myself
bound to rescue thee from death and contumely. But wherefore lie you still on your couch, since
the sun is high in the heavens? or are the vestments which my sumpter-camels have afforded
unworthy of your wearing?"

"Not unworthy, surely, but unfitting for it," replied the Scot. "Give me the dress of a slave,
noble Ilderim, and I will don it with pleasure; but I cannot brook to wear the habit of the
free Eastern warrior with the turban of the Moslem."

"Nazarene," answered the Emir, "thy nation so easily entertain suspicion that it may well render
themselves suspected. Have I not told thee that Saladin desires no converts saving those whom
the holy Prophet shall dispose to submit themselves to his law? violence and bribery are alike
alien to his plan for extending the true faith. Hearken to me, my brother. When the blind man
was miraculously restored to sight, the scales dropped from his eyes at the Divine pleasure.
Think'st thou that any earthly leech could have removed them? No. Such mediciner might have
tormented the patient with his instruments, or perhaps soothed him with his balsams and cordials,
but dark as he was must the darkened man have remained; and it is even so with the blindness
of the understanding. If there be those among the Franks who, for the sake of worldly lucre,
have assumed the turban of the Prophet, and followed the laws of Islam, with their own consciences
be the blame. Themselves sought out the bait; it was not flung to them by the Soldan. And when
they shall hereafter be sentenced, as hypocrites, to the lowest gulf of hell, below Christian
and Jew, magician and idolater, and condemned to eat the fruit of the tree Yacoun, which is
the heads of demons, to themselves, not to the Soldan, shall their guilt and their punishment
be attributed. Wherefore wear, without doubt or scruple, the vesture prepared for you, since,
if you proceed to the camp of Saladin, your own native dress will expose you to troublesome
observation, and perhaps to insult."

"IF I go to the camp of Saladin?" said Sir Kenneth, repeating the words of the Emir; "alas!
am I a free agent, and rather must I NOT go wherever your pleasure carries me?"

"Thine own will may guide thine own motions," said the Emir, "as freely as the wind which moveth
the dust of the desert in what direction it chooseth. The noble enemy who met and well-nigh
mastered my sword cannot become my slave like him who has crouched beneath it. If wealth and
power would tempt thee to join our people, I could ensure thy possessing them; but the man
who refused the favours of the Soldan when the axe was at his head, will not, I fear, now accept
them, when I tell him he has his free choice."

"Complete your generosity, noble Emir," said Sir Kenneth, "by forbearing to show me a mode
of requital which conscience forbids me to comply with. Permit me rather to express, as bound
in courtesy, my gratitude for this most chivalrous bounty, this undeserved generosity."

"Say not undeserved," replied the Emir Ilderim. "Was it not through thy conversation, and thy
account of the beauties which grace the court of the Melech Ric, that I ventured me thither
in disguise, and thereby procured a sight the most blessed that I have ever enjoyed--that I
ever shall enjoy, until the glories of Paradise beam on my eyes?"

"I understand you not," said Sir Kenneth, colouring alternately, and turning pale, as one who
felt that the conversation was taking a tone of the most painful delicacy.

"Not understand me!" exclaimed the Emir. "If the sight I saw in the tent of King Richard escaped
thine observation, I will account it duller than the edge of a buffoon's wooden falchion. True,
thou wert under sentence of death at the time; but, in my case, had my head been dropping from
the trunk, the last strained glances of my eyeballs had distinguished with delight such a vision
of loveliness, and the head would have rolled itself towards the incomparable houris, to kiss
with its quivering lips the hem of their vestments. Yonder royalty of England, who for her
superior loveliness deserves to be Queen of the universe--what tenderness in her blue eye,
what lustre in her tresses of dishevelled gold! By the tomb of the Prophet, I scarce think
that the houri who shall present to me the diamond cup of immortality will deserve so warm
a caress!"

"Saracen," said Sir Kenneth sternly, "thou speakest of the wife of Richard of England, of whom
men think not and speak not as a woman to be won, but as a Queen to be revered."

"I cry you mercy," said the Saracen. "I had forgotten your superstitious veneration for the
sex, which you consider rather fit to be wondered at and worshipped than wooed and possessed.
I warrant, since thou exactest such profound respect to yonder tender piece of frailty, whose
every motion, step, and look bespeaks her very woman, less than absolute adoration must not
be yielded to her of the dark tresses and nobly speaking eye. SHE indeed, I will allow, hath
in her noble port and majestic mien something at once pure and firm; yet even she, when pressed
by opportunity and a forward lover, would, I warrant thee, thank him in her heart rather for
treating her as a mortal than as a goddess."

"Respect the kinswoman of Coeur de Lion!" said Sir Kenneth, in a tone of unrepressed anger.

"Respect her!" answered the Emir in scorn; "by the Caaba, and if I do, it shall be rather as
the bride of Saladin."

"The infidel Soldan is unworthy to salute even a spot that has been pressed by the foot of
Edith Plantagenet!" exclaimed the Christian, springing from his couch.

"Ha! what said the Giaour?" exclaimed the Emir, laying his hand on his poniard hilt, while
his forehead glowed like glancing copper, and the muscles of his lips and cheeks wrought till
each curl of his beard seemed to twist and screw itself, as if alive with instinctive wrath.
But the Scottish knight, who had stood the lion-anger of Richard, was unappalled at the tigerlike
mood of the chafed Saracen.

"What I have said," continued Sir Kenneth, with folded arms and dauntless look, "I would, were
my hands loose, maintain on foot or horseback against all mortals; and would hold it not the
most memorable deed of my life to support it with my good broadsword against a score of these
sickles and bodkins," pointing at the curved sabre and small poniard of the Emir.

The Saracen recovered his composure as the Christian spoke, so far as to withdraw his hand
from his weapon, as if the motion had been without meaning, but still continued in deep ire.

"By the sword of the Prophet," he said, "which is the key both of heaven and hell, he little
values his own life, brother, who uses the language thou dost! Believe me, that were thine
hands loose, as thou term'st it, one single true believer would find them so much to do that
thou wouldst soon wish them fettered again in manacles of iron."

"Sooner would I wish them hewn off by the shoulder-blades!" replied Sir Kenneth.

"Well. Thy hands are bound at present," said the Saracen, in a more amicable tone--"bound by
thine own gentle sense of courtesy; nor have I any present purpose of setting them at liberty.
We have proved each other's strength and courage ere now, and we may again meet in a fair field--and
shame befall him who shall be the first to part from his foeman! But now we are friends, and
I look for aid from thee rather than hard terms or defiances."

"We ARE friends," repeated the knight; and there was a pause, during which the fiery Saracen
paced the tent, like the lion, who, after violent irritation, is said to take that method of
cooling the distemperature of his blood, ere he stretches himself to repose in his den. The
colder European remained unaltered in posture and aspect; yet he, doubtless, was also engaged
in subduing the angry feelings which had been so unexpectedly awakened.

"Let us reason of this calmly," said the Saracen. "I am a physician, as thou knowest, and it
is written that he who would have his wound cured must not shrink when the leech probes and
tests it. Seest thou, I am about to lay my finger on the sore. Thou lovest this kinswoman of
the Melech Ric. Unfold the veil that shrouds thy thoughts--or unfold it not if thou wilt, for
mine eyes see through its coverings."

"I LOVED her," answered Sir Kenneth, after a pause, "as a man loves Heaven's grace, and sued
for her favour like a sinner for Heaven's pardon."

"And you love her no longer?" said the Saracen.

"Alas," answered Sir Kenneth, "I am no longer worthy to love her. I pray thee cease this discourse--thy
words are poniards to me."

"Pardon me but a moment," continued Ilderim. "When thou, a poor and obscure soldier, didst
so boldly and so highly fix thine affection, tell me, hadst thou good hope of its issue?"

"Love exists not without hope," replied the knight; "but mine was as nearly allied to despair
as that of the sailor swimming for his life, who, as he surmounts billow after billow, catches
by intervals some gleam of the distant beacon, which shows him there is land in sight, though
his sinking heart and wearied limbs assure him that he shall never reach it."

"And now," said Ilderim, "these hopes are sunk--that solitary light is quenched for ever?"

"For ever," answered Sir Kenneth, in the tone of an echo from the bosom of a ruined sepulchre.

"Methinks," said the Saracen, "if all thou lackest were some such distant meteoric glimpse
of happiness as thou hadst formerly, thy beacon-light might be rekindled, thy hope fished up
from the ocean in which it has sunk, and thou thyself, good knight, restored to the exercise
and amusement of nourishing thy fantastic fashion upon a diet as unsubstantial as moonlight;
for, if thou stood'st tomorrow fair in reputation as ever thou wert, she whom thou lovest will
not be less the daughter of princes and the elected bride of Saladin."

"I would it so stood," said the Scot, "and if I did not--"

He stopped short, like a man who is afraid of boasting under circumstances which did not permit
his being put to the test. The Saracen smiled as he concluded the sentence.

"Thou wouldst challenge the Soldan to single combat?" said he.

"And if I did," said Sir Kenneth haughtily, "Saladin's would neither be the first nor the best
turban that I have couched lance at."

"Ay, but methinks the Soldan might regard it as too unequal a mode of perilling the chance
of a royal bride and the event of a great war," said the Emir.

"He may be met with in the front of battle," said the knight, his eyes gleaming with the ideas
which such a thought inspired.

"He has been ever found there," said Ilderim; "nor is it his wont to turn his horse's head
from any brave encounter. But it was not of the Soldan that I meant to speak. In a word, if
it will content thee to be placed in such reputation as may be attained by detection of the
thief who stole the Banner of England, I can put thee in a fair way of achieving this task--that
is, if thou wilt be governed; for what says Lokman, 'If the child would walk, the nurse must
lead him; if the ignorant would understand, the wise must instruct.'"

"And thou art wise, Ilderim," said the Scot--"wise though a Saracen, and generous though an
infidel. I have witnessed that thou art both. Take, then, the guidance of this matter; and
so thou ask nothing of me contrary to my loyalty and my Christian faith, I, will obey thee
punctually. Do what thou hast said, and take my life when it is accomplished."

"Listen thou to me, then," said the Saracen. "Thy noble hound is now recovered, by the blessing
of that divine medicine which healeth man and beast; and by his sagacity shall those who assailed
him be discovered."

"Ha!" said the knight, "methinks I comprehend thee. I was dull not to think of this!"

"But tell me," added the Emir, "hast thou any followers or retainers in the camp by whom the
animal may be known?"

"I dismissed," said Sir Kenneth, "my old attendant, thy patient, with a varlet that waited
on him, at the time when I expected to suffer death, giving him letters for my friends in Scotland;
there are none other to whom the dog is familiar. But then my own person is well known--my
very speech will betray me, in a camp where I have played no mean part for many months."

"Both he and thou shalt be disguised, so as to escape even close examination. I tell thee,"
said the Saracen, "that not thy brother in arms--not thy brother in blood--shall discover thee,
if thou be guided by my counsels. Thou hast seen me do matters more difficult--he that can
call the dying from the darkness of the shadow of death can easily cast a mist before the eyes
of the living. But mark me: there is still the condition annexed to this service--that thou
deliver a letter of Saladin to the niece of the Melech Ric, whose name is as difficult to our
Eastern tongue and lips, as her beauty is delightful to our eyes."

Sir Kenneth paused before he answered, and the Saracen observing his hesitation, demanded of
him, "if he feared to undertake this message?"

"Not if there were death in the execution," said Sir Kenneth. "I do but pause to consider whether
it consists with my honour to bear the letter of the Soldan, or with that of the Lady Edith
to receive it from a heathen prince."

"By the head of Mohammed, and by the honour of a soldier--by the tomb at Mecca, and by the
soul of my father," said the Emir, "I swear to thee that the letter is written in all honour
and respect. The song of the nightingale will sooner blight the rose-bower she loves than will
the words of the Soldan offend the ears of the lovely kinswoman of England."

"Then," said the knight, "I will bear the Soldan's letter faithfully, as if I were his born
vassal--understanding, that beyond this simple act of service, which I will render with fidelity,
from me of all men he can least expect mediation or advice in this his strange love-suit."

"Saladin is noble," answered the Emir, "and will not spur a generous horse to a leap which
he cannot achieve. Come with me to my tent," he added, "and thou shalt be presently equipped
with a disguise as unsearchable as midnight, so thou mayest walk the camp of the Nazarenes
as if thou hadst on thy finger the signet of Giaougi." [Perhaps the same with Gyges.]

CHAPTER XXIV

     A grain of dust
     Soiling our cup, will make our sense reject
     Fastidiously the draught which we did thirst for;
     A rusted nail, placed near the faithful compass,
     Will sway it from the truth, and wreck the argosy.
     Even this small cause of anger and disgust
     Will break the bonds of amity 'mongst princes,
     And wreck their noblest purposes.
                  THE CRUSADE.

The reader can now have little doubt who the Ethiopian slave really was, with what purpose
he had sought Richard's camp, and wherefore and with what hope he now stood close to the person
of that Monarch, as, surrounded by his valiant peers of England and Normandy, Coeur de Lion
stood on the summit of Saint George's Mount, with the Banner of England by his side, borne
by the most goodly person in the army, being his own natural brother, William with the Long
Sword, Earl of Salisbury, the offspring of Henry the Second's amour with the celebrated Rosamond
of Woodstock.

From several expressions in the King's conversation with Neville on the preceding day, the
Nubian was left in anxious doubt whether his disguise had not been penetrated, especially as
that the King seemed to be aware in what manner the agency of the dog was expected to discover
the thief who stole the banner, although the circumstance of such an animal's having been wounded
on the occasion had been scarce mentioned in Richard's presence. Nevertheless, as the King
continued to treat him in no other manner than his exterior required, the Nubian remained uncertain
whether he was or was not discovered, and determined not to throw his disguise aside voluntarily.

Meanwhile, the powers of the various Crusading princes, arrayed under their royal and princely
leaders, swept in long order around the base of the little mound; and as those of each different
country passed by, their commanders advanced a step or two up the hill, and made a signal of
courtesy to Richard and to the Standard of England, "in sign of regard and amity," as the protocol
of the ceremony heedfully expressed it, "not of subjection or vassalage." The spiritual dignitaries,
who in those days veiled not their bonnets to created being, bestowed on the King and his symbol
of command their blessing instead of rendering obeisance.

Thus the long files marched on, and, diminished as they were by so many causes, appeared still
an iron host, to whom the conquest of Palestine might seem an easy task. The soldiers, inspired
by the consciousness of united strength, sat erect in their steel saddles; while it seemed
that the trumpets sounded more cheerfully shrill, and the steeds, refreshed by rest and provender,
chafed on the bit, and trod the ground more proudly. On they passed, troop after troop, banners
waving, spears glancing, plumes dancing, in long perspective--a host composed of different
nations, complexions, languages, arms, and appearances, but all fired, for the time, with the
holy yet romantic purpose of rescuing the distressed daughter of Zion from her thraldom, and
redeeming the sacred earth, which more than mortal had trodden, from the yoke of the unbelieving
pagan. And it must be owned that if, in other circumstances, the species of courtesy rendered
to the King of England by so many warriors, from whom he claimed no natural allegiance, had
in it something that might have been thought humiliating, yet the nature and cause of the war
was so fitted to his pre-eminently chivalrous character and renowned feats in arms, that claims
which might elsewhere have been urged were there forgotten, and the brave did willing homage
to the bravest, in an expedition where the most undaunted and energetic courage was necessary
to success.

The good King was seated on horseback about half way up the mount, a morion on his head, surmounted
by a crown, which left his manly features exposed to public view, as, with cool and considerate
eye, he perused each rank as it passed him, and returned the salutation of the leaders. His
tunic was of sky-coloured velvet, covered with plates of silver, and his hose of crimson silk,
slashed with cloth of gold. By his side stood the seeming Ethiopian slave, holding the noble
dog in a leash, such as was used in woodcraft. It was a circumstance which attracted no notice,
for many of the princes of the Crusade had introduced black slaves into their household, in
imitation of the barbarous splendour of the Saracens. Over the King's head streamed the large
folds of the banner, and, as he looked to it from time to time, he seemed to regard a ceremony,
indifferent to himself personally, as important, when considered as atoning an indignity offered
to the kingdom which he ruled. In the background, and on the very summit of the Mount, a wooden
turret, erected for the occasion, held the Queen Berengaria and the principal ladies of the
Court. To this the King looked from time to time; and then ever and anon his eyes were turned
on the Nubian and the dog, but only when such leaders approached, as, from circumstances of
previous ill-will, he suspected of being accessory to the theft of the standard, or whom he
judged capable of a crime so mean.

Thus, he did not look in that direction when Philip Augustus of France approached at the head
of his splendid troops of Gallic chivalry---nay, he anticipated the motions of the French King,
by descending the Mount as the latter came up the ascent, so that they met in the middle space,
and blended their greetings so gracefully that it appeared they met in fraternal equality.
The sight of the two greatest princes in Europe, in rank at once and power, thus publicly avowing
their concord, called forth bursts of thundering acclaim from the Crusading host at many miles
distance, and made the roving Arab scouts of the desert alarm the camp of Saladin with intelligence
that the army of the Christians was in motion. Yet who but the King of kings can read the hearts
of monarchs? Under this smooth show of courtesy, Richard nourished displeasure and suspicion
against Philip, and Philip meditated withdrawing himself and his host from the army of the
Cross, and leaving Richard to accomplish or fail in the enterprise with his own unassisted forces.

Richard's demeanour was different when the dark-armed knights and squires of the Temple chivalry
approached--men with countenances bronzed to Asiatic blackness by the suns of Palestine, and
the admirable state of whose horses and appointments far surpassed even that of the choicest
troops of France and England. The King cast a hasty glance aside; but the Nubian stood quiet,
and his trusty dog sat at his feet, watching, with a sagacious yet pleased look, the ranks
which now passed before them. The King's look turned again on the chivalrous Templars, as the
Grand Master, availing himself of his mingled character, bestowed his benediction on Richard
as a priest, instead of doing him reverence as a military leader.

"The misproud and amphibious caitiff puts the monk upon me," said Richard to the Earl of Salisbury.
"But, Longsword, we will let it pass. A punctilio must not lose Christendom the services of
these experienced lances, because their victories have rendered them overweening. Lo you, here
comes our valiant adversary, the Duke of Austria. Mark his manner and bearing, Longsword--and
thou, Nubian, let the hound have full view of him. By Heaven, he brings his buffoons along
with him!"

In fact, whether from habit, or, which is more likely, to intimate contempt of the ceremonial
he was about to comply with, Leopold was attended by his SPRUCH-SPRECHER and his jester; and
as he advanced towards Richard, he whistled in what he wished to be considered as an indifferent
manner, though his heavy features evinced the sullenness, mixed with the fear, with which a
truant schoolboy may be seen to approach his master. As the reluctant dignitary made, with
discomposed and sulky look, the obeisance required, the SPRUCH-SPRECHER shook his baton, and
proclaimed, like a herald, that, in what he was now doing, the Archduke of Austria was not
to be held derogating from the rank and privileges of a sovereign prince; to which the jester
answered with a sonorous AMEN, which provoked much laughter among the bystanders.

King Richard looked more than once at the Nubian and his dog; but the former moved not, nor
did the latter strain at the leash, so that Richard said to the slave with some scorn, "Thy
success in this enterprise, my sable friend, even though thou hast brought thy hound's sagacity
to back thine own, will not, I fear, place thee high in the rank of wizards, or much augment
thy merits towards our person."

The Nubian answered, as usual, only by a lowly obeisance.

Meantime the troops of the Marquis of Montserrat next passed in order before the King of England.
That powerful and wily baron, to make the greater display of his forces, had divided them into
two bodies. At the head of the first, consisting of his vassals and followers, and levied from
his Syrian possessions, came his brother Enguerrand; and he himself followed, leading on a
gallant band of twelve hundred Stradiots, a kind of light cavalry raised by the Venetians in
their Dalmatian possessions, and of which they had entrusted the command to the Marquis, with
whom the republic had many bonds of connection. These Stradiots were clothed in a fashion partly
European, but partaking chiefly of the Eastern fashion. They wore, indeed, short hauberks,
but had over them party-coloured tunics of rich stuffs, with large wide pantaloons and half-boots.
On their heads were straight upright caps, similar to those of the Greeks; and they carried
small round targets, bows and arrows, scimitars, and poniards. They were mounted on horses
carefully selected, and well maintained at the expense of the State of Venice; their saddles
and appointments resembled those of the Turks, and they rode in the same manner, with short
stirrups and upon a high seat. These troops were of great use in skirmishing with the Arabs,
though unable to engage in close combat, like the iron-sheathed men-at-arms of Western and
Northern Europe.

Before this goodly band came Conrade, in the same garb with the Stradiots, but of such rich
stuff that he seemed to blaze with gold and silver, and the milk-white plume fastened in his
cap by a clasp of diamonds seemed tall enough to sweep the clouds. The noble steed which he
reined bounded and caracoled, and displayed his spirit and agility in a manner which might
have troubled a less admirable horseman than the Marquis, who gracefully ruled him with the
one hand, while the other displayed the baton, whose predominancy over the ranks which he led
seemed equally absolute. Yet his authority over the Stradiots was more in show than in substance;
for there paced beside him, on an ambling palfrey of soberest mood, a little old man, dressed
entirely in black, without beard or moustaches, and having an appearance altogether mean and
insignificant when compared with the blaze of splendour around him. But this mean-looking old
man was one of those deputies whom the Venetian government sent into camps to overlook the
conduct of the generals to whom the leading was consigned, and to maintain that jealous system
of espial and control which had long distinguished the policy of the republic.

Conrade, who, by cultivating Richard's humour, had attained a certain degree of favour with
him, no sooner was come within his ken than the King of England descended a step or two to
meet him, exclaiming, at the same time, "Ha, Lord Marquis, thou at the head of the fleet Stradiots,
and thy black shadow attending thee as usual, whether the sun shines or not! May not one ask
thee whether the rule of the troops remains with the shadow or the substance?"

Conrade was commencing his reply with a smile, when Roswal, the noble hound, uttering a furious
and savage yell, sprung forward. The Nubian, at the same time, slipped the leash, and the hound,
rushing on, leapt upon Conrade's noble charger, and, seizing the Marquis by the throat, pulled
him down from the saddle. The plumed rider lay rolling on the sand, and the frightened horse
fled in wild career through the camp.

"Thy hound hath pulled down the right quarry, I warrant him," said the King to the Nubian,
"and I vow to Saint George he is a stag of ten tynes! Pluck the dog off; lest he throttle him."

The Ethiopian, accordingly, though not without difficulty, disengaged the dog from Conrade,
and fastened him up, still highly excited, and struggling in the leash. Meanwhile many crowded
to the spot, especially followers of Conrade and officers of the Stradiots, who, as they saw
their leader lie gazing wildly on the sky, raised him up amid a tumultuary cry of "Cut the
slave and his hound to pieces!"

But the voice of Richard, loud and sonorous, was heard clear above all other exclamations.
"He dies the death who injures the hound! He hath but done his duty, after the sagacity with
which God and nature have endowed the brave animal.--Stand forward for a false traitor, thou
Conrade, Marquis of Montserrat! I impeach thee of treason."

Several of the Syrian leaders had now come up, and Conrade--vexation, and shame, and confusion
struggling with passion in his manner and voice--exclaimed, "What means this? With what am
I charged? Why this base usage and these reproachful terms? Is this the league of concord which
England renewed but so lately?"

"Are the Princes of the Crusade turned hares or deers in the eyes of King Richard that he should
slip hounds on them?" said the sepulchral voice of the Grand Master of the Templars.

"It must be some singular accident--some fatal mistake," said Philip of France, who rode up
at the same moment.

"Some deceit of the Enemy," said the Archbishop of Tyre.

"A stratagem of the Saracens," cried Henry of Champagne. "It were well to hang up the dog,
and put the slave to the torture."

"Let no man lay hand upon them," said Richard, "as he loves his own life! Conrade, stand forth,
if thou darest, and deny the accusation which this mute animal hath in his noble instinct brought
against thee, of injury done to him, and foul scorn to England!"

"I never touched the banner," said Conrade hastily.

"Thy words betray thee, Conrade!" said Richard, "for how didst thou know, save from conscious
guilt, that the question is concerning the banner?"

"Hast thou then not kept the camp in turmoil on that and no other score?" answered Conrade;
"and dost thou impute to a prince and an ally a crime which, after all, was probably committed
by some paltry felon for the sake of the gold thread? Or wouldst thou now impeach a confederate
on the credit of a dog?"

By this time the alarm was becoming general, so that Philip of France interposed.

"Princes and nobles," he said, "you speak in presence of those whose swords will soon be at
the throats of each other if they hear their leaders at such terms together. In the name of
Heaven, let us draw off each his own troops into their separate quarters, and ourselves meet
an hour hence in the Pavilion of Council to take some order in this new state of confusion."

"Content," said King Richard, "though I should have liked to have interrogated that caitiff
while his gay doublet was yet besmirched with sand. But the pleasure of France shall be ours
in this matter."

The leaders separated as was proposed, each prince placing himself at the head of his own forces;
and then was heard on all sides the crying of war-cries and the sounding of gathering-notes
upon bugles and trumpets, by which the different stragglers were summoned to their prince's
banner, and the troops were shortly seen in motion, each taking different routes through the
camp to their own quarters. But although any immediate act of violence was thus prevented,
yet the accident which had taken place dwelt on every mind; and those foreigners who had that
morning hailed Richard as the worthiest to lead their army, now resumed their prejudices against
his pride and intolerance, while the English, conceiving the honour of their country connected
with the quarrel, of which various reports had gone about, considered the natives of other
countries jealous of the fame of England and her King, and disposed to undermine it by the
meanest arts of intrigue. Many and various were the rumours spread upon the occasion, and there
was one which averred that the Queen and her ladies had been much alarmed by the tumult, and
that one of them had swooned.

The Council assembled at the appointed hour. Conrade had in the meanwhile laid aside his dishonoured
dress, and with it the shame and confusion which, in spite of his talents and promptitude,
had at first overwhelmed him, owing to the strangeness of the accident and suddenness of the
accusation. He was now robed like a prince; and entered the council-chamber attended by the
Archduke of Austria, the Grand Masters both of the Temple and of the Order of Saint John, and
several other potentates, who made a show of supporting him and defending his cause, chiefly
perhaps from political motives, or because they themselves nourished a personal enmity against
Richard.

This appearance of union in favour of Conrade was far from influencing the King of England.
He entered the Council with his usual indifference of manner, and in the same dress in which
he had just alighted from horseback. He cast a careless and somewhat scornful glance on the
leaders, who had with studied affectation arranged themselves around Conrade as if owning his
cause, and in the most direct terms charged Conrade of Montserrat with having stolen the Banner
of England, and wounded the faithful animal who stood in its defence.

Conrade arose boldly to answer, and in despite, as he expressed himself, of man and brute,
king or dog, avouched his innocence of the crime charged.

"Brother of England," said Philip, who willingly assumed the character of moderator of the
assembly, "this is an unusual impeachment. We do not hear you avouch your own knowledge of
this matter, further than your belief resting upon the demeanour of this hound towards the
Marquis of Montserrat. Surely the word of a knight and a prince should bear him out against
the barking of a cur?"

"Royal brother," returned Richard, "recollect that the Almighty, who gave the dog to be companion
of our pleasures and our toils, hath invested him with a nature noble and incapable of deceit.
He forgets neither friend nor foe--remembers, and with accuracy, both benefit and injury. He
hath a share of man's intelligence, but no share of man's falsehood. You may bribe a soldier
to slay a man with his sword, or a witness to take life by false accusation; but you cannot
make a hound tear his benefactor. He is the friend of man, save when man justly incurs his
enmity. Dress yonder marquis in what peacock-robes you will, disguise his appearance, alter
his complexion with drugs and washes, hide him amidst a hundred men,--I will yet pawn my sceptre
that the hound detects him, and expresses his resentment, as you have this day beheld. This
is no new incident, although a strange one. Murderers and robbers have been ere now convicted,
and suffered death under such evidence, and men have said that the finger of God was in it.
In thine own land, royal brother, and upon such an occasion, the matter was tried by a solemn
duel betwixt the man and the dog, as appellant and defendant in a challenge of murder. The
dog was victorious, the man was punished, and the crime was confessed. Credit me, royal brother,
that hidden crimes have often been brought to light by the testimony even of inanimate substances,
not to mention animals far inferior in instinctive sagacity to the dog, who is the friend and
companion of our race."

"Such a duel there hath indeed been, royal brother," answered Philip, "and that in the reign
of one of our predecessors, to whom God be gracious. But it was in the olden time, nor can
we hold it a precedent fitting for this occasion. The defendant in that case was a private
gentleman of small rank or respect; his offensive weapons were only a club, his defensive a
leathern jerkin. But we cannot degrade a prince to the disgrace of using such rude arms, or
to the ignominy of such a combat."

"I never meant that you should," said King Richard; "it were foul play to hazard the good hound's
life against that of such a double-faced traitor as this Conrade hath proved himself. But there
lies our own glove; we appeal him to the combat in respect of the evidence we brought forth
against him. A king, at least, is more than the mate of a marquis."

Conrade made no hasty effort to seize on the pledge which Richard cast into the middle of the
assembly, and King Philip had time to reply ere the marquis made a motion to lift the glove.

"A king," said he of France, "is as much more than a match for the Marquis Conrade as a dog
would be less. Royal Richard, this cannot be permitted. You are the leader of our expedition--the
sword and buckler of Christendom."

"I protest against such a combat," said the Venetian proveditore, "until the King of England
shall have repaid the fifty thousand byzants which he is indebted to the republic. It is enough
to be threatened with loss of our debt, should our debtor fall by the hands of the pagans,
without the additional risk of his being slain in brawls amongst Christians concerning dogs
and banners."

"And I," said William with the Long Sword, Earl of Salisbury, "protest in my turn against my
royal brother perilling his life, which is the property of the people of England, in such a
cause. Here, noble brother, receive back your glove, and think only as if the wind had blown
it from your hand. Mine shall lie in its stead. A king's son, though with the bar sinister
on his shield, is at least a match for this marmoset of a marquis."

"Princes and nobles," said Conrade, "I will not accept of King Richard's defiance. He hath
been chosen our leader against the Saracens, and if his conscience can answer the accusation
of provoking an ally to the field on a quarrel so frivolous, mine, at least, cannot endure
the reproach of accepting it. But touching his bastard brother, William of Woodstock, or against
any other who shall adopt or shall dare to stand godfather to this most false charge, I will
defend my honour in the lists, and prove whosoever impeaches it a false liar."

"The Marquis of Montserrat," said the Archbishop of Tyre, "hath spoken like a wise and moderate
gentleman; and methinks this controversy might, without dishonour to any party, end at this point."

"Methinks it might so terminate," said the King of France, "provided King Richard will recall
his accusation as made upon over-slight grounds."

"Philip of France," answered Coeur de Lion, "my words shall never do my thoughts so much injury.
I have charged yonder Conrade as a thief, who, under cloud of night, stole from its place the
emblem of England's dignity. I still believe and charge him to be such; and when a day is appointed
for the combat, doubt not that, since Conrade declines to meet us in person, I will find a
champion to appear in support of my challenge--for thou, William, must not thrust thy long
sword into this quarrel without our special license."

"Since my rank makes me arbiter in this most unhappy matter," said Philip of France, "I appoint
the fifth day from hence for the decision thereof, by way of combat, according to knightly
usage--Richard, King of England, to appear by his champion as appellant, and Conrade, Marquis
of Montserrat, in his own person, as defendant. Yet I own I know not where to find neutral
ground where such a quarrel may be fought out; for it must not be in the neighbourhood of this
camp, where the soldiers would make faction on the different sides."

"It were well," said Richard, "to apply to the generosity of the royal Saladin, since, heathen
as he is, I have never known knight more fulfilled of nobleness, or to whose good faith we
may so peremptorily entrust ourselves. I speak thus for those who may be doubtful of mishap;
for myself, wherever I see my foe, I make that spot my battle-ground."

"Be it so," said Philip; "we will make this matter known to Saladin, although it be showing
to an enemy the unhappy spirit of discord which we would willingly hide from even ourselves,
were it possible. Meanwhile, I dismiss this assembly, and charge you all, as Christian men
and noble knights, that ye let this unhappy feud breed no further brawling in the camp, but
regard it as a thing solemnly referred to the judgment of God, to whom each of you should pray
that He will dispose of victory in the combat according to the truth of the quarrel; and therewith
may His will be done!"

"Amen, amen!" was answered on all sides; while the Templar whispered the Marquis, "Conrade,
wilt thou not add a petition to be delivered from the power of the dog, as the Psalmist hath it?"

"Peace, thou--!" replied the Marquis; "there is a revealing demon abroad which may report,
amongst other tidings, how far thou dost carry the motto of thy order--'FERIATUR LEO'."

"Thou wilt stand the brunt of challenge?" said the Templar.

"Doubt me not," said Conrade. "I would not, indeed, have willingly met the iron arm of Richard
himself, and I shame not to confess that I rejoice to be free of his encounter; but, from his
bastard brother downward, the man breathes not in his ranks whom I fear to meet."

"It is well you are so confident," continued the Templar; "and, in that case, the fangs of
yonder hound have done more to dissolve this league of princes than either thy devices or the
dagger of the Charegite. Seest thou how, under a brow studiously overclouded, Philip cannot
conceal the satisfaction which he feels at the prospect of release from the alliance which
sat so heavy on him? Mark how Henry of Champagne smiles to himself, like a sparkling goblet
of his own wine; and see the chuckling delight of Austria, who thinks his quarrel is about
to be avenged without risk or trouble of his own. Hush! he approaches.--A most grievous chance,
most royal Austria, that these breaches in the walls of our Zion--"

"If thou meanest this Crusade," replied the Duke, "I would it were crumbled to pieces, and
each were safe at home! I speak this in confidence."

"But," said the Marquis of Montserrat, "to think this disunion should be made by the hands
of King Richard, for whose pleasure we have been contented to endure so much, and to whom we
have been as submissive as slaves to a master, in hopes that he would use his valour against
our enemies, instead of exercising it upon our friends!"

"I see not that he is so much more valorous than others," said the Archduke. "I believe, had
the noble Marquis met him in the lists, he would have had the better; for though the islander
deals heavy blows with the pole-axe, he is not so very dexterous with the lance. I should have
cared little to have met him myself on our old quarrel, had the weal of Christendom permitted
to sovereign princes to breathe themselves in the lists; and if thou desirest it, noble Marquis,
I will myself be your godfather in this combat."

"And I also," said the Grand Master.

"Come, then, and take your nooning in our tent, noble sirs," said the Duke, "and we'll speak
of this business over some right NIERENSTEIN."

They entered together accordingly.

"What said our patron and these great folks together?" said Jonas Schwanker to his companion,
the SPRUCH-SPRECHER, who had used the freedom to press nigh to his master when the Council
was dismissed, while the jester waited at a more respectful distance.

"Servant of Folly," said the SPRUCH-SPRECHER, "moderate thy curiosity; it beseems not that
I should tell to thee the counsels of our master."

"Man of wisdom, you mistake," answered Jonas. "We are both the constant attendants on our patron,
and it concerns us alike to know whether thou or I--Wisdom or Folly--have the deeper interest
in him."

"He told to the Marquis," answered the SPRUCH-SPRECHER, "and to the Grand Master, that he was
aweary of these wars, and would be glad he was safe at home."

"That is a drawn cast, and counts for nothing in the game," said the jester; "it was most wise
to think thus, but great folly to tell it to others--proceed."

"Ha, hem!" said the SPRUCH-SPRECHER; "he next said to them that Richard was not more valorous
than others, or over-dexterous in the tilt-yard."

"Woodcock of my side," said Schwanker, "this was egregious folly. What next?"

"Nay, I am something oblivious," replied the man of wisdom--"he invited them to a goblet of
NIERENSTEIN."

"That hath a show of wisdom in it," said Jonas. "Thou mayest mark it to thy credit in the meantime;
but an he drink too much, as is most likely, I will have it pass to mine. Anything more?"

"Nothing worth memory," answered the orator; "only he wished he had taken the occasion to meet
Richard in the lists."

"Out upon it--out upon it!" said Jonas; "this is such dotage of folly that I am well-nigh ashamed
of winning the game by it. Ne'ertheless, fool as he is, we will follow him, most sage SPRUCH-SPRECHER,
and have our share of the wine of NIERENSTEIN."

CHAPTER XXV.

     Yet this inconstancy is such,
     As thou, too, shalt adore;
     I could not love thee, love so much,
     Loved I not honour more.
            MONTROSE'S LINES.

When King Richard returned to his tent, he commanded the Nubian to be brought before him. He
entered with his usual ceremonial reverence, and having prostrated himself, remained standing
before the King in the attitude of a slave awaiting the orders of his master. It was perhaps
well for him that the preservation of his character required his eyes to be fixed on the ground,
since the keen glance with which Richard for some time surveyed him in silence would, if fully
encountered, have been difficult to sustain.

"Thou canst well of woodcraft," said the King, after a pause, "and hast started thy game and
brought him to bay as ably as if Tristrem himself had taught thee. [A universal tradition ascribed
to Sir Tristrem, famous for his love of the fair Queen Yseult, the laws concerning the practice
of woodcraft, or VENERIE, as it was called, being those that related to the rules of the chase,
which were deemed of much consequence during the Middle Ages.] But this is not all--he must
be brought down at force. I myself would have liked to have levelled my hunting-spear at him.
There are, it seems, respects which prevent this. Thou art about to return to the camp of the
Soldan, bearing a letter, requiring of his courtesy to appoint neutral ground for the deed
of chivalry, and should it consist with his pleasure, to concur with us in witnessing it. Now,
speaking conjecturally, we think thou mightst find in that camp some cavalier who, for the
love of truth and his own augmentation of honour, will do battle with this same traitor of
Montserrat."

The Nubian raised his eyes and fixed them on the King with a look of eager ardour; then raised
them to Heaven with such solemn gratitude that the water soon glistened in them; then bent
his head, as affirming what Richard desired, and resumed his usual posture of submissive attention.

"It is well," said the King; "and I see thy desire to oblige me in this matter. And herein,
I must needs say, lies the excellence of such a servant as thou, who hast not speech either
to debate our purpose or to require explanation of what we have determined. An English serving
man in thy place had given me his dogged advice to trust the combat with some good lance of
my household, who, from my brother Longsword downwards, are all on fire to do battle in my
cause; and a chattering Frenchman had made a thousand attempts to discover wherefore I look
for a champion from the camp of the infidels. But thou, my silent agent, canst do mine errand
without questioning or comprehending it; with thee to hear is to obey."

A bend of the body and a genuflection were the appropriate answer of the Ethiopian to these
observations.

"And now to another point," said the King, and speaking suddenly and rapidly--"have you yet
seen Edith Plantagenet?"

The mute looked up as in the act of being about to speak--nay, his lips had begun to utter
a distinct negative--when the abortive attempt died away in the imperfect murmurs of the dumb.

"Why, lo you there!" said the King, "the very sound of the name of a royal maiden of beauty
so surpassing as that of our lovely cousin seems to have power enough well-nigh to make the
dumb speak. What miracles then might her eye work upon such a subject! I will make the experiment,
friend slave. Thou shalt see this choice beauty of our Court, and do the errand of the princely
Soldan."

Again a joyful glance--again a genuflection--but, as he arose, the King laid his hand heavily
on his shoulder, and proceeded with stern gravity thus: "Let me in one thing warn you, my sable
envoy. Even if thou shouldst feel that the kindly influence of her whom thou art soon to behold
should loosen the bonds of thy tongue, presently imprisoned, as the good Soldan expresses it,
within the ivory walls of its castle, beware how thou changest thy taciturn character, or speakest
a word in her presence, even if thy powers of utterance were to be miraculously restored. Believe
me that I should have thy tongue extracted by the roots, and its ivory palace--that is, I presume,
its range of teeth--drawn out one by one. Wherefore, be wise and silent still."

The Nubian, so soon as the King had removed his heavy grasp from his shoulder, bent his head,
and laid his hand on his lips, in token of silent obedience.

But Richard again laid his hand on him more gently, and added, "This behest we lay on thee
as on a slave. Wert thou knight and gentleman, we would require thine honour in pledge of thy
silence, which is one especial condition of our present trust."

The Ethiopian raised his body proudly, looked full at the King, and laid his right hand on
his heart.

Richard then summoned his chamberlain.

"Go, Neville," he said, "with this slave to the tent of our royal consort, and say it is our
pleasure that he have an audience--a private audience--of our cousin Edith. He is charged with
a commission to her. Thou canst show him the way also, in case he requires thy guidance, though
thou mayst have observed it is wonderful how familiar he already seems to be with the purlieus
of our camp.--And thou, too, friend Ethiop," the King continued, "what thou dost do quickly,
and return hither within the half-hour."

"I stand discovered," thought the seeming Nubian, as, with downcast looks and folded arms,
he followed the hasty stride of Neville towards the tent of Queen Berengaria--"I stand undoubtedly
discovered and unfolded to King Richard; yet I cannot perceive that his resentment is hot against
me. If I understand his words--and surely it is impossible to misinterpret them--he gives me
a noble chance of redeeming my honour upon the crest of this false Marquis, whose guilt I read
in his craven eye and quivering lip when the charge was made against him.--Roswal, faithfully
hast thou served thy master, and most dearly shall thy wrong be avenged!--But what is the meaning
of my present permission to look upon her whom I had despaired ever to see again? And why,
or how, can the royal Plantagenet consent that I should see his divine kinswoman, either as
the messenger of the heathen Saladin, or as the guilty exile whom he so lately expelled from
his camp--his audacious avowal of the affection which is his pride being the greatest enhancement
of his guilt? That Richard should consent to her receiving a letter from an infidel lover by
the hands of one of such disproportioned rank are either of them circumstances equally incredible,
and, at the same time, inconsistent with each other. But Richard, when unmoved by his heady
passions, is liberal, generous, and truly noble; and as such I will deal with him, and act
according to his instructions, direct or implied, seeking to know no more than may gradually
unfold itself without my officious inquiry. To him who has given me so brave an opportunity
to vindicate my tarnished honour, I owe acquiescence and obedience; and painful as it may be,
the debt shall be paid. And yet"--thus the proud swelling of his heart further suggested--"Coeur
de Lion, as he is called, might have measured the feelings of others by his own. I urge an
address to his kinswoman! I, who never spoke word to her when I took a royal prize from her
hand--when I was accounted not the lowest in feats of chivalry among the defenders of the Cross!
I approach her when in a base disguise, and in a servile habit--and, alas! when my actual condition
is that of a slave, with a spot of dishonour on that which was once my shield! I do this! He
little knows me. Yet I thank him for the opportunity which may make us all better acquainted
with each other."

As he arrived at this conclusion, they paused before the entrance of the Queen's pavilion.

They were of course admitted by the guards, and Neville, leaving the Nubian in a small apartment,
or antechamber, which was but too well remembered by him, passed into that which was used as
the Queen's presence-chamber. He communicated his royal master's pleasure in a low and respectful
tone of voice, very different from the bluntness of Thomas de Vaux, to whom Richard was everything
and the rest of the Court, including Berengaria herself, was nothing. A burst of laughter followed
the communication of his errand.

"And what like is the Nubian slave who comes ambassador on such an errand from the Soldan?--a
negro, De Neville, is he not?" said a female voice, easily recognized for that of Berengaria.
"A negro, is he not, De Neville, with black skin, a head curled like a ram's, a flat nose,
and blubber lips--ha, worthy Sir Henry?"

"Let not your Grace forget the shin-bones," said another voice, "bent outwards like the edge
of a Saracen scimitar."

"Rather like the bow of a Cupid, since he comes upon a lover's errand," said the Queen.--"Gentle
Neville, thou art ever prompt to pleasure us poor women, who have so little to pass away our
idle moments. We must see this messenger of love. Turks and Moors have I seen many, but negro
never."

"I am created to obey your Grace's commands, so you will bear me out with my Sovereign for
doing so," answered the debonair knight. "Yet, let me assure your Grace you will see something
different from what you expect."

"So much the better--uglier yet than our imaginations can fancy, yet the chosen love-messenger
of this gallant Soldan!"

"Gracious madam," said the Lady Calista, "may I implore you would permit the good knight to
carry this messenger straight to the Lady Edith, to whom his credentials are addressed? We
have already escaped hardly for such a frolic."

"Escaped?" repeated the Queen scornfully. "Yet thou mayest be right, Calista, in thy caution.
Let this Nubian, as thou callest him, first do his errand to our cousin--besides, he is mute
too, is he not?"

"He is, gracious madam," answered the knight.

"Royal sport have these Eastern ladies," said Berengaria, "attended by those before whom they
may say anything, yet who can report nothing. Whereas in our camp, as the Prelate of Saint
Jude's is wont to say, a bird of the air will carry the matter."

"Because," said De Neville, "your Grace forgets that you speak within canvas walls."

The voices sunk on this observation, and after a little whispering, the English knight again
returned to the Ethiopian, and made him a sign to follow. He did so, and Neville conducted
him to a pavilion, pitched somewhat apart from that of the Queen, for the accommodation, it
seemed, of the Lady Edith and her attendants. One of her Coptic maidens received the message
communicated by Sir Henry Neville, and in the space of a very few minutes the Nubian was ushered
into Edith's presence, while Neville was left on the outside of the tent. The slave who introduced
him withdrew on a signal from her mistress, and it was with humiliation, not of the posture
only but of the very inmost soul, that the unfortunate knight, thus strangely disguised, threw
himself on one knee, with looks bent on the ground and arms folded on his bosom, like a criminal
who expects his doom. Edith was clad in the same manner as when she received King Richard,
her long, transparent dark veil hanging around her like the shade of a summer night on a beautiful
landscape, disguising and rendering obscure the beauties which it could not hide. She held
in her hand a silver lamp, fed with some aromatic spirit, which burned with unusual brightness.

When Edith came within a step of the kneeling and motionless slave, she held the light towards
his face, as if to peruse his features more attentively, then turned from him, and placed her
lamp so as to throw the shadow of his face in profile upon the curtain which hung beside. She
at length spoke in a voice composed, yet deeply sorrowful,

"Is it you? It is indeed you, brave Knight of the Leopard--gallant Sir Kenneth of Scotland;
is it indeed you?--thus servilely disguised--thus surrounded by a hundred dangers."

At hearing the tones of his lady's voice thus unexpectedly addressed to him, and in a tone
of compassion approaching to tenderness, a corresponding reply rushed to the knight's lips,
and scarce could Richard's commands and his own promised silence prevent his answering that
the sight he saw, the sounds he just heard, were sufficient to recompense the slavery of a
life, and dangers which threatened that life every hour. He did recollect himself, however,
and a deep and impassioned sigh was his only reply to the high-born Edith's question.

"I see--I know I have guessed right," continued Edith. "I marked you from your first appearance
near the platform on which I stood with the Queen. I knew, too, your valiant hound. She is
no true lady, and is unworthy of the service of such a knight as thou art, from whom disguises
of dress or hue could conceal a faithful servant. Speak, then, without fear to Edith Plantagenet.
She knows how to grace in adversity the good knight who served, honoured, and did deeds of
arms in her name, when fortune befriended him.--Still silent! Is it fear or shame that keeps
thee so! Fear should be unknown to thee; and for shame, let it remain with those who have wronged
thee."

The knight, in despair at being obliged to play the mute in an interview so interesting, could
only express his mortification by sighing deeply, and laying his finger upon his lips. Edith
stepped back, as if somewhat displeased.

"What!" she said, "the Asiatic mute in very deed, as well as in attire? This I looked not for.
Or thou mayest scorn me, perhaps, for thus boldly acknowledging that I have heedfully observed
the homage thou hast paid me? Hold no unworthy thoughts of Edith on that account. She knows
well the bounds which reserve and modesty prescribe to high-born maidens, and she knows when
and how far they should give place to gratitude--to a sincere desire that it were in her power
to repay services and repair injuries arising from the devotion which a good knight bore towards
her. Why fold thy hands together, and wring them with so much passion? Can it be," she added,
shrinking back at the idea, "that their cruelty has actually deprived thee of speech? Thou
shakest thy head. Be it a spell--be it obstinacy, I question thee no further, but leave thee
to do thine errand after thine own fashion. I also can be mute."

The disguised knight made an action as if at once lamenting his own condition and deprecating
her displeasure, while at the same time he presented to her, wrapped, as usual, in fine silk
and cloth of gold, the letter of the Soldan. She took it, surveyed it carelessly, then laid
it aside, and bending her eyes once more on the knight, she said in a low tone, "Not even a
word to do thine errand to me?"

He pressed both his hands to his brow, as if to intimate the pain which he felt at being unable
to obey her; but she turned from him in anger.

"Begone!" she said. "I have spoken enough--too much--to one who will not waste on me a word
in reply. Begone!--and say, if I have wronged thee, I have done penance; for if I have been
the unhappy means of dragging thee down from a station of honour, I have, in this interview,
forgotten my own worth, and lowered myself in thy eyes and in my own."

She covered her eyes with her hands, and seemed deeply agitated. Sir Kenneth would have approached,
but she waved him back.

"Stand off! thou whose soul Heaven hath suited to its new station! Aught less dull and fearful
than a slavish mute had spoken a word of gratitude, were it but to reconcile me to my own degradation.
Why pause you?--begone!"

The disguised knight almost involuntarily looked towards the letter as an apology for protracting
his stay. She snatched it up, saying in a tone of irony and contempt, "I had forgotten--the
dutiful slave waits an answer to his message. How's this--from the Soldan!"

She hastily ran over the contents, which were expressed both in Arabic and French, and when
she had done, she laughed in bitter anger.

"Now this passes imagination!" she said; "no jongleur can show so deft a transmutation! His
legerdemain can transform zechins and byzants into doits and maravedis; but can his art convert
a Christian knight, ever esteemed among the bravest of the Holy Crusade, into the dust-kissing
slave of a heathen Soldan--the bearer of a paynim's insolent proposals to a Christian maiden--nay,
forgetting the laws of honourable chivalry, as well as of religion? But it avails not talking
to the willing slave of a heathen hound. Tell your master, when his scourge shall have found
thee a tongue, that which thou hast seen me do"--so saying, she threw the Soldan's letter on
the ground, and placed her foot upon it--"and say to him, that Edith Plantagenet scorns the
homage of an unchristened pagan."

With these words she was about to shoot from the knight, when, kneeling at her feet in bitter
agony, he ventured to lay his hand upon her robe and oppose her departure.

"Heard'st thou not what I said, dull slave?" she said, turning short round on him, and speaking
with emphasis. "Tell the heathen Soldan, thy master, that I scorn his suit as much as I despise
the prostration of a worthless renegade to religion and chivalry--to God and to his lady!"

So saying, she burst from him, tore her garment from his grasp, and left the tent.

The voice of Neville, at the same time, summoned him from without. Exhausted and stupefied
by the distress he had undergone during this interview, from which he could only have extricated
himself by breach of the engagement which he had formed with King Richard, the unfortunate
knight staggered rather than walked after the English baron, till they reached the royal pavilion,
before which a party of horsemen had just dismounted. There were light and motion within the
tent, and when Neville entered with his disguised attendant, they found the King, with several
of his nobility, engaged in welcoming those who were newly arrived.

CHAPTER XXVI.

     "The tears I shed must ever fall.
     I weep not for an absent swain;
     For time may happier hours recall,
     And parted lovers meet again.

     "I weep not for the silent dead.
     Their pains are past, their sorrows o'er;
     And those that loved their steps must tread,
     When death shall join to part no more."

     But worse than absence, worse than death,
     She wept her lover's sullied fame,
     And, fired with all the pride of birth,
     She wept a soldier's injured name.
            BALLAD.

The frank and bold voice of Richard was heard in joyous gratulation.

"Thomas de Vaux! stout Tom of the Gills! by the head of King Henry, thou art welcome to me
as ever was flask of wine to a jolly toper! I should scarce have known how to order my battle-array,
unless I had thy bulky form in mine eye as a landmark to form my ranks upon. We shall have
blows anon, Thomas, if the saints be gracious to us; and had we fought in thine absence, I
would have looked to hear of thy being found hanging upon an elder-tree."

"I should have borne my disappointment with more Christian patience, I trust," said Thomas
de Vaux, "than to have died the death of an apostate. But I thank your Grace for my welcome,
which is the more generous, as it respects a banquet of blows, of which, saving your pleasure,
you are ever too apt to engross the larger share. But here have I brought one to whom your
Grace will, I know, give a yet warmer welcome."

The person who now stepped forward to make obeisance to Richard was a young man of low stature
and slight form. His dress was as modest as his figure was unimpressive; but he bore on his
bonnet a gold buckle, with a gem, the lustre of which could only be rivalled by the brilliancy
of the eye which the bonnet shaded. It was the only striking feature in his countenance; but
when once noticed, it ever made a strong impression on the spectator. About his neck there
hung in a scarf of sky-blue silk a WREST as it was called--that is, the key with which a harp
is tuned, and which was of solid gold.

This personage would have kneeled reverently to Richard, but the Monarch raised him in joyful
haste, pressed him to his bosom warmly, and kissed him on either side of the face.

"Blondel de Nesle!" he exclaimed joyfully--"welcome from Cyprus, my king of minstrels!--welcome
to the King of England, who rates not his own dignity more highly than he does thine. I have
been sick, man, and, by my soul, I believe it was for lack of thee; for, were I half way to
the gate of heaven, methinks thy strains could call me back. And what news, my gentle master,
from the land of the lyre? Anything fresh from the TROUVEURS of Provence? Anything from the
minstrels of merry Normandy? Above all, hast thou thyself been busy? But I need not ask thee--thou
canst not be idle if thou wouldst; thy noble qualities are like a fire burning within, and
compel thee to pour thyself out in music and song."

"Something I have learned, and something I have done, noble King," answered the celebrated
Blondel, with a retiring modesty which all Richard's enthusiastic admiration of his skill had
been unable to banish.

"We will hear thee, man--we will hear thee instantly," said the King. Then, touching Blondel's
shoulder kindly, he added, "That is, if thou art not fatigued with thy journey; for I would
sooner ride my best horse to death than injure a note of thy voice."

"My voice is, as ever, at the service of my royal patron," said Blondel; "but your Majesty,"
he added, looking at some papers on the table, "seems more importantly engaged, and the hour
waxes late."

"Not a whit, man, not a whit, my dearest Blondel. I did but sketch an array of battle against
the Saracens, a thing of a moment, almost as soon done as the routing of them."

"Methinks, however," said Thomas de Vaux, "it were not unfit to inquire what soldiers your
Grace hath to array. I bring reports on that subject from Ascalon."

"Thou art a mule, Thomas," said the King--"a very mule for dullness and obstinacy! Come, nobles--a
hall--a hall--range ye around him! Give Blondel the tabouret. Where is his harp-bearer?--or,
soft, lend him my harp, his own may be damaged by the journey."

"I would your Grace would take my report," said Thomas de Vaux. "I have ridden far, and have
more list to my bed than to have my ears tickled."

