They would first show Barton the little girl; he could not remember her of course, for she
had been born some months after he was separated from his wife; but then he might find her
out from her resemblance to her mother; Julia remembered many stories she had read of similar
discoveries, and Edward affirmed his belief in natural affection, though he allowed that his
father said, that Dr. Franklin and many other philosophers laughed at the idea. If the little
girl proved an insufficient clew, Dickey was to be brought into the room, as if accidentally,
and with many cautions by no means to tell his name; and finally the door was to be thrown
open, and good Mrs. Barton, all unprepared for the sight, was to behold her long-lost husband.
Mrs. Sackville saw in the truth-telling faces of her children, that something in their view
very important was in agitation; but she seemed to take no notice of their whisperings, and
hurried pace, till Mr. Morris called out, "Fall back children, one would think we were walking
for a wager; remember we carry weight of years."

"Oh," whispered Julia, "uncle Morris is such a snail; but there is no use in our hurrying,
because you know we should lose half the pleasure if papa and mama and uncle were not there."
Edward assented, and patience had her perfect work while the children made their feet, which
seemed suddenly to have been furnished with the wings of Mercury, to keep time with the dignified
movements of their parents.

When they turned into St. John's-street, and came in sight of the hotel, Edward saw the soldier
standing by the step to the front entrance, and looking eagerly towards him, "there he is!"
said he to Julia, and they both involuntarily changed their pace from a walk to a run, but
before they reached the hotel, the soldier sprung into the door, and disappeared from their
sight. He had caught the sound of his wife's voice, and their first joyful recognition had
passed before the children entered the door.

                  *       *       *       *       *

Our youthful readers have, we trust, been entire strangers to those joys that are preceded
by suffering, and which remind us of some clouds that send down their showers after the sun
has broken through. They would have been as much surprised as were Edward and Julia, if they
had seen, instead of smiles and ecstasies, the deathlike paleness of Mrs. Barton, her husband
dashing the tear from his eyes that he might gaze upon his children; Dickey looking timidly
at him, and the little girl burying her face in her mother's gown. Yet this was joy--joy that
no words could express; the joy of kind and faithful hearts--joy with which a stranger cannot
intermeddle; and Mrs. Sackville felt it to be such, for when she saw the family group, she
drew her children into the parlour, and left their humble friends to themselves.

                  *       *       *       *       *

It was our intention to have described the soldier's gratitude--the contentment and thankfulness
of his wife--the neat little cottage in which she was immediately placed by the officers of
the regiment, who seemed delighted thus to manifest their regard for their corporal Barton.
The emotion of this good family at parting with their benefactors--little Dickey's resolution,
that when he grew to be a man, he would go and live with Mr. Edward--the hospitable honors
rendered to the Sackville party by the officers of the regiment, who felt their beneficence
to the British soldier's wife as a personal obligation--to which was to have been added, a
particular description of some very beautiful curiosities presented to Edward and Julia by
the governor's lady; but we fear our young readers will think we have already protracted a
dull tale to an unconscionable length; and we will therefore take our leave of them, with simply
expressing a wish, that if they should ever travel to Quebec, or indeed in any other direction,
they will remember that after the delightful but evanescent pleasures of their jaunt had faded,
and were almost effaced from the minds of Edward and Julia, they possessed a treasure that
fadeth not away in the consciousness of having rendered an essential service to a fellow-creature.
A consciousness that strews roses in the path of youth and age--not 'the perfume and suppliance
of a moment,' but those amaranthine flowers that exhale incense to Heaven.

                                FINIS.
  "Now, mama," she said, "you must take both sides of the river."

  of the skipping right--the readers inalienable right) we shall make but
  of the skipping right--the readers' inalienable right) we shall make but

  "One might almost fancy here," said Mr. Sackville, that the march
  "One might almost fancy here," said Mr. Sackville, "that the march

  "At a wigman in Oneida, where he had been compelled to ask for such
  "At a wigwam in Oneida, where he had been compelled to ask for such

  the road is thronged with market-waggons, stage coaches, and carriages
  the road is thronged with market-waggons, stage coaches; and carriages

  riches and resources of their native land, "For my own part," he said,
  riches and resources of their native land. I do not justly remember; but there is my age set down in our
  "How old? I do not justly remember; but there is my age set down in our

  "I do not see that we can, my dear," replied Mrs. Sackville," I have
  "I do not see that we can, my dear," replied Mrs. Sackville, "I have

  "Sickly feeling," exclaimed Edward, I am sure I thought the air was
  "Sickly feeling," exclaimed Edward, "I am sure I thought the air was

  to her children, " the charm of the ring in the Fairy tale, bestowed by
  to her children, "the charm of the ring in the Fairy tale, bestowed by

  "What, my dear, children, should we be, without the religious sentiment
  "What, my dear children, should we be, without the religious sentiment

  festival of nature, you must take care you do not commit the pharasaic
  festival of nature, you must take care you do not commit the pharisaic

  of he future, theirs were constantly directed to virtue, which they
  of the future, theirs were constantly directed to virtue, which they

  of such beautiful scenes as these, to convert themi n tofields of
  of such beautiful scenes as these, to convert them into fields of

  wife, she has an Enlish spirit, and a proud one; and she says, while
  wife, she has an English spirit, and a proud one; and she says, while

  he does, and fraquently he dont," replied the fellow, rather surlily.
  he does, and fraquently he don't," replied the fellow, rather surlily.

  to see a young creature thus cut off by her sins."
  to see a young creature thus cut off by her sins.

  Come now Edward and Julia to your births--and dream of the 'thousand
  Come now Edward and Julia to your berths--and dream of the 'thousand

  roughly binding his wampun belt over Marguerite's mouth, to deaden the
  roughly binding his wampum belt over Marguerite's mouth, to deaden the

  He rose cautiously, looked for one instant on the indians, and assured
  "He rose cautiously, looked for one instant on the indians, and assured

  led the way to an adjoining anti-room appropriated to medicines,
  led the way to an adjoining ante-room appropriated to medicines,

  silver Edward had given him to the ground. "Have I," he said, served my
  silver Edward had given him to the ground. "Have I," he said, "served my

  and boy? The result of all his deliberations was, that he would go
  and boy?' The result of all his deliberations was, that he would go

  something in their viewvery important was in agitation; but she
  something in their view very important was in agitation; but she

