She was as dead an old woman as ever I saw; no more than bone and parchment, curiously put
together. Her eyes, with which she interrogated mine, were vacant of sense. It depends on what
you call seeing, whether you might not call her blind. Perhaps she had known love; perhaps
borne children, suckled them, and given them pet names. But now that was all gone by, and had
left her neither happier nor wiser; and the best she could do with her mornings was to come
up here into the cold church and juggle for a slice of heaven. It was not without a gulp that
I escaped into the streets and the keen morning air. Morning? why, how tired of it she would
be before night! and if she did not sleep, how then? It is fortunate that not many of us are
brought up publicly to justify our lives at the bar of threescore years and ten; fortunate
that such a number are knocked opportunely on the head in what they call the flower of their
years, and go away to suffer for their follies in private somewhere else. Otherwise, between
sick children and discontented old folk, we might be put out of all conceit of life.

*****

When I was going, up got my old stroller, and off with his hat. 'I am afraid,' said he, 'that
monsieur will think me altogether a beggar; but I have another demand to make upon him.' I
began to hate him on the spot. 'We play again to-night,' he went on. 'Of course I shall refuse
to accept any more money from monsieur and his friends, who have been already so liberal. But
our programme of to-night is something truly creditable; and I cling to the idea that monsieur
will honour us with his presence. And then, with a shrug and a smile: 'Monsieur understands--the
vanity of an artist!' Save the mark! The vanity of an artist! That is the kind of thing that
reconciles me to life: a ragged, tippling, incompetent old rogue, with the manners of a gentleman
and the vanity of an artist, to keep up his self-respect!

*****

Time went on, and the boy's health still slowly declined. The Doctor blamed the weather, which
was cold and boisterous. He called in his CONFRERE from Burron, took a fancy for him, magnified
his capacity, and was pretty soon under treatment himself--it scarcely appeared for what complaint.
He and Jean-Marie had each medicine to take at different periods of the day. The Doctor used
to lie in wait for the exact moment, watch in hand. 'There is nothing like regularity,' he
would say, fill out the doses, and dilate on the virtues of the draught; and if the boy seemed
none the better, the Doctor was not at all the worse.

*****

'I lead you,' he would say, 'by the green pastures. My system, my beliefs, my medicines, are
resumed in one phrase--to avoid excess. Blessed nature, healthy, temperate nature, abhors and
exterminates excess. Human law in this matter imitates at a great distance her provisions;
and we must strive to supplement the efforts of the law. Yes, boy, we must be a law to ourselves
and for our neighbours--LEX ARMATA--armed, emphatic, tyrannous law. If you see a crapulous
human ruin snuffing, dash from him his box! The judge, though in a way an admission of disease,
is less offensive to me than either the doctor or the priest. Above all, the doctor--the doctor
and the purulent trash and garbage of his pharmacopoeia! Pure air--from the neighbourhood of
a pinetum for the sake of the turpentine--unadulterated wine, and the reflections of an unsophisticated
spirit in the presence of the works of nature--these, my boy, are the best medical appliances
and the best religious comforts. Devote yourself to these. Hark! there are the bells of Bourron
(the wind is in the North, it will be fair). How clear and airy is the sound! The nerves are
harmonised and quieted; the mind attuned to silence; and observe how easily and regularly beats
the heart! Your unenlightened doctor would see nothing in these sensations; and yet you yourself
perceive they are a part of health. Did you remember your cinchona this morning? Good. Cinchona
also is a work of nature; it is, after all, only the bark of a tree which we might gather for,
ourselves if we lived in the locality.'

*****

The accepted novelist may take his novel up and put it down, spend days upon it in vain, and
write not any more than he makes haste to blot. Not so the Beginner. Human nature has certain
rights; instinct--the instinct of self-preservation--forbids that any man (cheered and supported
by the consciousness of no previous victory) should endure the miseries of unsuccessful literary
toil beyond a period to be measured in weeks. There must be something for hope to feed upon.
The beginner must have a slant of wind, a lucky vein must be running, he must be in one of
those hours when the words come and the phrases balance themselves--EVEN TO BEGIN. And having
begun, what a dread looking forward is that until the book shall be accomplished! For so long
a time the slant is to continue unchanged, the vein to keep running, for so long a time you
must keep at command the same quality of style: for so long a time your puppets are to be always
vital, always consistent, always vigorous!

*****

What is this fortunate circumstance, my friend? inquired Anastasie, not heeding his protest,
which was of daily recurrence.

'That we have no children, my beautiful,' replied the Doctor. 'I think of it more and more
as the years go on, and with more and more gratitude towards the Power that dispenses such
afflictions. Your health, my darling, my studious quiet, our little kitchen delicacies, how
they would all have suffered, how they would all have been sacrificed! And for what? Children
are the last word of human imperfection. Health flees before their face. They cry, my dear;
they put vexatious questions; they demand to be fed, to be washed, to be educated, to have
their noses blowed; and then, when the time comes, they break our hearts, as I break this piece
of sugar. A pair of professed egoists, like you and me, should avoid offspring, like an infidelity.'

'Indeed!' said she; and she laughed.

*****

     Forth from the casement, on the plain
     Where honour has the world to gain,
     Pour forth and bravely do your part,
     O knights of the unshielded heart!
     'Forth and for ever forward!--out
     From prudent turret and redoubt,
     And in the mellay charge amain,
     To fall, but yet to rise again!
     Captive?  Ah, still, to honour bright,
     A captive soldier of the right!
     Or free and fighting, good with ill?
     Unconquering but unconquered still!

     O to be up and doing, O
     Unfearing and unshamed to go
     In all the uproar and the press
     About my human business!
     My undissuaded heart I hear
     Whisper courage in my ear.
     With voiceless calls, the ancient earth
     Summons me to a daily birth.

*****

Yet it is to this very responsibility that the rich are born. They can shuffle off the duty
on no other; they are their own paymasters on parole; and must pay themselves fair wages and
no more. For I suppose that in the course of ages, and through reform and civil war and invasion,
mankind was pursuing some other and more general design than to set one or two Englishmen of
the nineteenth century beyond the reach of needs and duties. Society was scarce put together,
and defended with so much eloquence and blood, for the convenience of two or three millionaires
and a few hundred other persons of wealth and position. It is plain that if mankind thus acted
and suffered during all these generations, they hoped some benefit, some ease, some wellbeing,
for themselves and their descendants; that if they supported law and order, it was to secure
fair-play for all; that if they denied themselves in the present, they must have had some designs
on the future. Now a great hereditary fortune is a miracle of man's wisdom and mankind's forbearance;
it has not only been amassed and handed down, it has been suffered to be amassed and handed
down; and surely in such consideration as this, its possessor should find only a new spur to
activity and honour, that with all this power of service he should not prove unserviceable,
and that this mass of treasure should return in benefits upon the race. If he had twenty, or
thirty, or a hundred thousand at his banker's, or if all Yorkshire or all California were his
to manage or to sell, he would still be morally penniless, and have the world to begin like
Whittington, until he had found some way of serving mankind. His wage is physically in his
own hand; but, in honour, that wage must still be earned. He is only steward on parole of what
is called his fortune. He must honourably perform his stewardship. He must estimate his own
services and allow himself a salary in proportion, for that will be one among his functions.
And while he will then be free to spend that salary, great or little, on his own private pleasures,
the rest of his fortune he but holds and disposes under trust for mankind; it is not his, because
he has not earned it; it cannot be his, because his services have already been paid; but year
by year it is his to distribute, whether to help individuals whose birthright and outfit has
been swallowed up in his, or to further public works and institutions.

*****

'Tis a fine thing to smart for one's duty; even in the pangs of it there is contentment.

*****

We all suffer ourselves to be too much concerned about a little poverty; but such considerations
should not move us in the choice of that which is to be the business and justification of so
great a portion of our lives and like the missionary, the patriot, or the philosopher, we should
all choose that poor and brave career in which we can do the most and best for mankind.

*****

The salary in any business under heaven is not the only, nor indeed the first, question. That
you should continue to exist is a matter for your own consideration; but that your business
should be first honest, and second useful, are points in which honour and morality are concerned.

*****

There is only one wish realisable on the earth; only one thing that can be perfectly attained:
Death. And from a variety of circumstances we have no one to tell us whether it be worth attaining.

A strange picture we make on our way to our chimaeras, ceaselessly marching, grudging ourselves
the time for rest; indefatigable, adventurous pioneers. It is true that we shall never reach
the goal; it is even more than probable that there is no such place; and if we lived for centuries
and were endowed with the powers of a god, we should find ourselves not much nearer what we
wanted at the end. O toiling hands of mortals! O unwearied feet, travelling ye know not whither!
Soon, soon, it seems to you,' you must come forth on some conspicuous hilltop, and but a little
way further, against the setting sun, descry the spires of El Dorado. Little do ye know your
own blessedness; for to travel hopefully is a better thing than to arrive, and the true success
is to labour.

*****

A man who must separate himself from his neighbours' habits in order to be happy, is in much
the same case with one who requires to take opium for the same purpose. What we want to see
is one who can breast into the world, do a man's work, and still preserve his first and pure
enjoyment of existence.

There is apt to be something unmanly, something almost dastardly, in a life that does not move
with dash and freedom, and that fears the bracing contact of the world.

*****

You cannot run away from a weakness; you must some time fight it out or perish; and if that
be so, why not now, and where you stand?

*****

