And so it was! It was Philippe, who heard him in the night sobbing over the piteous words,
'My God, what horrors, what blood!' and, as she took from his tear-drenched handkerchief, spoke
to him of the Blood that speakth better things than the blood of Abel; and it was she who,
in the final agony, heard and treasured these last words, 'If the Lord Jesus will indeed receive
me into the company of the blest!' Surely, never was repentance deeper than that of Charles
IX.--and these, his parting words, were such as to inspire the trust that it was not remorse.

All-important as Berenger's expedition had been, he still could think of little but the poor
King; and, wearied out as he was, he made very little reply to the astonished friends who gathered
round him on his return. He merely told Philip that he had succeeded, and then lay almost without
speaking on his bed till the Ambassador made his evening visit, when he showed him the two
papers. Sir Francis could hardly believe his good fortune in having obtained this full attestation
of the marriage, and promised to send to the English Ambassador in Germany, to obtain the like
from Father Meinhard. The document itself he advised Berenger not to expose to the dangers
of the French journey, but to leave it with him to be forwarded direct to Lord Walwyn. It was
most important, both as obviating any dispute on the legitimacy of the child, if she lived;
or, if not, it would establish those rights of Berenger to the Nid de Merle estates, of which
he had heard from the King. This information explained what were the claims that the Chevalier
was so anxious to hush up by a marriage with Madame de Selinville. Berenger, as his wife's
heir, was by this contract the true owner of the estates seized by the Chevalier and his son,
and could only be ousted, either by his enemies proving his contract to Eustacie invalid and
to be unfulfilled, or by his own voluntary resignation. The whole scheme was clear to Walsingham,
and he wasted advice upon unheeding ears, as to how Berenger should act to obtain restitution
so soon as he should be of age, and how he should try to find out the notary who had drawn
up the contract. If Berenger cared at all, it was rather for the sake of punishing and balking
Narcisse, than with any desire of the inheritance; and even for righteous indignation he was
just now too weary and too sad. He could not discuss his rights to Nid de Merle, if they passed
over the rights of Eustacie's child, round whom his affection were winding themselves as his
sole hope.

The next evening Pare came in quest of Berenger, and after a calm, refreshing, hopeful Ascension-day,
which had been a real balm to the weary spirit, found him enjoying the sweet May sunshine under
a tree in the garden. 'I am glad to find you out of doors,' he said; 'I fear I must hasten
your departure.

'I burn to lose no time,' cried Berenger. 'Prithee tell them I may safely go! They all call
it madness to think of setting out.

'Ordinarily it would be,' said Pare; 'but Rene of Milan has sent his underlings to see who
is my new, tall assistant. He will report all to the Queen-mother; and though in this house
you could scarcely suffer personal harm, yet the purpose of your journey might be frustrated,
and the King might have to undergo another of those bourrasques which he may well dread.

'I will go this very night,' said Berenger, starting up; 'where is Philip?--where is Sir Francis?

Even that very night Pare thought not too soon, and the Ascension-tide illuminations brought
so many persons abroad that it would be easy to go unnoticed; and in the general festivity,
when every one was coming and going from the country to gaze or worship at the shrines and
the images decked in every church, it would be easy for the barriers to be passed without observation.
Then the brothers would sleep at a large hostel, the first on the road to England, where Walsingham's
couriers and guest always baited, and the next morning he would send out to them their attendants,
with houses for their further journey back into Anjou. If any enemies were on the watch, this
would probably put them off the scent, and it only remained further to be debated, whether
the Norman Guibert had better be dismissed at once or taken with them. There was always soft
place in Berenger's heart for a Norman, and the man was really useful; moreover, he would certainly
be safer employed and in their company, than turned loose to tell the Chevalier all he might
have picked up in the Hotel d'Angleterre. It was therefore decided that he should be the attendant
of the two young men, and he received immediate orders that night to pack up their garments,
and hold himself ready.

Nevertheless, before the hour of departure, Guibert had stolen out, had an interview with the
Chevalier de Ribaumont at the Hotel de Selinville, and came back with more than one good French
crown in his pocket, and hopes of more.

CHAPTER XXVIII. THE ORPHANS OF LA SABLERIE

The cream tarts with pepper in them.--ARABIAN NIGHTS.

Hope, spring, and recovery carried the young Baronde Ribaumont on his journey infinitely better
than his companions had dared to expect. He dreaded nothing so much as being overtaken by those
tidings which would make King Charles's order mere waste paper; and therefore pressed on with
little regard to his own fatigue, although happily with increasing strength, which carried
him a further stage every day.

Lucon was a closely-guarded, thoroughly Catholic city, and his safe-conduct was jealously demanded;
but the name of Ribaumont silenced all doubt. 'A relation, apparently, of M. de Nid de Merle,'
said the officer on guard, and politely invited him to dinner and bed at the castle; but these
he thought it prudent to decline, explaining that he brought a letter from the King to the
Mother Prioress.

The convent walls were pointed out to him, and he only delayed at the inn long enough to arrange
his dress as might appear to the Abbess most respectful, and, poor boy, be least likely to
startle the babe on whom his heart was set. At almost every inn, the little children had shrieked
and run from his white and gashed face, and his tall, lank figure in deep black; and it was
very sadly that he said to Philip, 'You must come with me. If she turns from me as an ogre,
your bright ruddy face will win her.

The men were left at the inn with charge to let Guibert speak for them, and to avoid showing
their nationality. The three months of Paris, and the tailors there, had rendered Philip much
less conspicuous than formerly; but still people looked at him narrowly as he followed his
brother along the street. The two lads had made up their minds to encumber themselves with
no nurses, or womanfolk. The child should be carried, fondled, and fed by her boy-father alone.
He believed that, when he once held her in his arms, he should scarcely even wish to give her
up to any one else; and, in his concentration of mind, had hardly thought of all the inconveniences
and absurdities that would arise; but, really, was chiefly occupied by the fear that she would
not at first let him take her in his arms, and hold her to his heart.

Philip, a little more alive to the probabilities, nevertheless was disposed to regard them
as 'fun and pastime.' He had had many a frolic with his baby-sisters, and this would be only
a prolonged one; besides, it was 'Berry's' one hope, and to rescue any creature from a convent
was a good work, in his Protestant eyes, which had not become a whit less prejudiced at Paris.
So he was quite prepared to take his full share of his niece, or more, if she should object
to her father's looks, and he only suggested halting at an old woman's stall to buy some sweetmeats
by way of propitiation--a proceeding which much amazed the gazing population of Lucon. Two
reports were going about, one that the King had vowed a silver image of himself to St. Ursula,
if her Prioress would obtain his recovery by their prayers; the other that he was going to
translate her to the royal Abbey of Fontevrault to take charge of his daughter, Madame Elisabeth.
Any way, high honour by a royal messenger must be intended to the Prioress, Mere Monique, and
the Luconnais were proud of her sanctity.

The portress had already heard the report, and opened her wicket even before the bell could
be rung, then eagerly ushered him into the parlour, the barest and most ascetic-looking of
rooms, with a boarded partition across, unenlivened except by a grated hollow, and the outer
portion empty, save of a table, three chairs, and a rugged woodcut of a very tall St. Ursula,
with a crowd of pigmy virgins, not reaching higher than the ample hem of her petticoat.

'Did Aunt Cecily live in such a place as this?' exclaimed Philip, gazing round; 'or do they
live on the fat among down cushions inside there?

'Hush--sh,' said Berenger, frowning with anxiety; for a rustling was heard behind the screen,
and presently a black veil and white scapulary appeared, and a sweet calm voice said, 'Peace
be with you, sir; what are your commands?

Berenger bowed low, and replied, 'Thanks, reverend Lady; I bring a letter from the King, to
request your aid in a matter that touches me nearly.

'His Majesty shall be obeyed. Come you from him?

He was forced to reply to her inquiries after the poor King's health before she opened the
letter, taking it under her veil to read it; so that as he stood, trembling, almost sickening
with anxiety, and scarcely able to breathe, he could see nothing but the black folds; and at
her low murmured exclamation he started as if at a cannon-shot.

'De Ribaumont!' she said; 'can it be--the child--of--of--out poor dear little pensionnaire
at Bellaise?

'It is--it is!' cried Berenger. 'O Madame, you knew her at Bellaise?

'Even so,' replied the Prioress, who was in fact the Soeur Monique so loved and regretted by
Eustacie. 'I loved and prayed for her with all my heart when she was claimed by the world.
Heaven's will be done; but the poor little thing loved me, and I have often thought that had
I been still at Bellaise when she returned she would not have fled. But of this child I have
no knowledge.

'You took charge of the babes of La Sablerie, Madame,' said Berenger, almost under his breath.

'Her infant among those poor orphans!' exclaimed the Prioress, more and more startled and amazed.

'If it be anywhere in this life, it is in your good keeping, Madame,' said Berenger, with tears
in his eyes. 'Oh! I entreat, withhold her no longer.

'But,' exclaimed the bewildered nun, 'who would you then be, sir?

'I--her husband--widower of Eustacie--father of her orphan!' cried Berenger. 'She cannot be
detained from me, either by right or law.

'Her husband,' still hesitated Monique. 'But he is dead. The poor little one--Heaven have mercy
on her soul--wrote me a piteous entreaty, and gave large alms for prayers and masses for his soul.

The sob in his throat almost strangled his speech. 'She mourned me to the last as dead. I was
borne away senseless and desperately wounded; and when I recovered power to seek her it was
too late! O Madame! have pity--let me see all she has left to me.

'Is it possible?' said the nun. 'We would not learn the parentage of our nurslings since all
alike become children of Mother Church. Then, suddenly bethinking herself, 'But, surely, Monsieur
cannot be a Huguenot.

It was no doubt the first time she had been brought in contact with a schismatic, and she could
not believe that such respectful courtesy could come from one. He saw he must curb himself,
and explain. 'I am neither Calvinist nor Sacrementaire, Madame. I was bred in England, where
we love our own Church. My aunt is a Benedictine Sister, who keeps her rule strictly, though
her convent is destroyed; and it is to her that I shall carry my daughter. Ah, Lady, did you
but know my heart's hunger for her!

The Prioress, better read in the lives of the saints than in the sects of heretics, did not
know whether this meant that he was of her own faith or not; and her woman's heart being much
moved by his pleadings, she said, 'I will heartily give your daughter to you, sir, as indeed
I must, if she be here; but you have never seen her?

'No; only her empty cradle in the burnt house. But I MUST know her. She is a year old.

'We have two babes of that age; but I fear me you will scarce see much likeness in either of
them to any one you knew,' said the Prioress, thoughtfully. 'However, there are two girls old
enough to remember the parentage of their companions, though we forbade them to mention it.
Would you see them, sir?

'And the infants, so please you, reverend Mother,' exclaimed Berenger.

She desired him to wait, and after an interval of suspense there was a pattering of little
sabots behind the partition, and through the grating he beheld six little girls in blue serge
frocks and tight white caps. Of the two infants, one with a puny, wizen, pinched face was in
the arms of the Prioress; the other, a big, stout, coarse child, with hard brown cheeks and
staring black-eyes, was on its own feet, but with a great basket-work frame round its head
to save it from falls. There were two much more prepossessing children of three or four, and
two intelligent-looking girls of perhaps eight and ten, to the elder of whom the Prioress turned,
saying, 'Agathe, I release you from my command not to speak of your former life, and desire
you to tell this gentleman if you know who were the parents of these two little ones.

'Yes, reverend Mother,' said Agathe, readily; 'the old name of Claire' (touching the larger
baby) 'was Salome Potier: her mother was the washerwoman; and Nannonciade, I don't know what
her name was, but her father worked for Maitre Brassier who made the kettles.

Philip felt relieved to be free from all doubt about these very uninviting little ones, but
Berenger, though sighing heavily, asked quickly, 'Permit me, Madame, a few questions.--Little
maid, did you ever hear of Isaac Gardon?

'Maitre Isaac! Oh yes, sir. We used to hear him preach at the church, and sometimes he catechized
us,' she said, and her lip quivered.

'He was a heretic, and I abjure him,' added the other girl, perking up her head.

'Was he in the town? What became of him?' exclaimed Berenger.

'He would not be in the town,' said the elder girl. 'My poor father had sent him word to go away.

'Eh quoi?

'Our father was Bailli la Grasse,' interposed the younger girl, consequentially. 'Our names
were Marthe and Lucie la Grasse, but Agathe and Eulalie are much prettier.

'But Maitre Gardon?' still asked Berenger.

'He ought to be take and burnt,' said the new Eulalie; 'he brought it all on us.

'How was it? Was my wife with him--Madame de Ribaumont? Speak, my child.

'That was the name,' said one girl.

'But Maitre Gardon had no great lady with him,' said the other, 'only his son's widow and her
baby, and they lodged with Noemi Laurent, who made the patisserie.

'Ah!' cried Berenger, lighting up with the new ray of hope. 'Tell me, my dear, that they fled
with him, and where.

'I do not know of their going,' said Agathe, confused and overborne by his eagerness.

'Curb yourself, sir,' said the Prioress, 'they will recollect themselves and tell you what
they can.

'It was the little cakes with lemoned sugar,' suggested the younger girl. 'Maitre Tressan always
said there would be a judgment on us for our daintiness. Ah! he was very cross about them,
and after all it was the Maitre of Lucon who ate fifteen of them all at once; but then he is
not a heretic.

Happily for Berenger, Agathe unraveled this speech.

'Mademoiselle Gardon made the sugar-lemoned cakes, and the Mayor of Lucon, one day when he
supped with us, was so delighted with them that he carried one away to show his wife, and afterwards
he sent over to order some more. Then, after a time, he sent secretly to my father to ask him
if Maitre Gardon was there; for there was a great outcry about the lemon cakes, and the Duke
of Alencon's army were coming to demand his daughter-in-law; because it seems she was a great
lady, and the only person who could make the cakes.

'Agathe!' exclaimed the Prioress.

'I understand,' said Berenger. 'The Cure of Nissard told me that she was traced through cakes,
the secret of which was only known at Bellaise.

'That might be,' said Mere Monique. 'I remember there was something of pride in the cakes of
Bellaise, though I always tried to know nothing of them.

'Well, little one, continue,' entreated Berenger. 'You are giving me life and hope.

'I heard my father and mother talk about it,' said Agathe, gaining courage. 'He said he knew
nothing of great people, and would give nobody up to the Catholics, but as to Maitre Isaac,
he should let him know that the Catholic army were coming, and that it would be the better
for us if we had no pastor within our walls; and that there was a cry that his daughter's lemon
cakes were made by the lady that was lost.

'And they escaped! Ah! would that I could thank the good man!

'Surely yes, sir, I never saw them again. Maitre Tressan the elder prayed with us. And when
the cruel soldiers came and demanded the lady and Maitre Isaac, and all obstinate Calvinists,
our mayor and my father and the rest made answer that they had no knowledge of the lady, and
did not know where Maitre Gardon was; and as to Huguenots, we were all one as obstinate as
the other, but that we would pay any fine within our means so they would spare our lives. Then
the man in the fine coat said, it was the lady they wanted, not the fine; and a great deal
he said besides, I know not what but my father said, 'It is our life's blood that they want,'
and he put on his breastplate and kissed us all, and went away. Then came horrible noises and
firing of cannon, and the neighbours ran in and said that the enemy were battering down the
old crumbly bit of wall where the monastery was burnt; and just then our man Joseph ran back
all pale, and staring, to tell us my father was lying badly hurt in the street. My mother hurried
out, and locked the door to keep us from following.

The poor child broke down in tears, and her sister went on. 'Oh, we were so frightened--such
frightful sounds came close, and people ran by all blood and shrieking--and there was a glare
in the sky--and nobody came home--till at last it grew so dreadful that we hid in the cellar
to hear and see nothing. Only it grew hotter and hotter, and the light through the little grating
was red. And at last there was a noise louder than thunder, and, oh, such a shaking--for it
was the house falling down. But we did not know that; we tried to open the door, and could
not; then we cried and called for father and mother--and no one heard--and we sat still for
fear, till we slept--and then it was all dark, and we were very hungry. I don't know how time
went, but at last, when I was daylight again, there was a talking above, a little baby crying,
and a kind voice too; and then we called out, 'Oh, take us out and give us bread.' Then a face
looked down the grating. Oh, it was like the face of an angel to us, with all the white hair
flying round. It was the holy priest of Nissard; and when one of the cruel men said we were
only little heretics who ought to die like rats in a hole, he said we were but innocents who
did not know the difference.

'Ah! we did,' said the elder girl. 'You are younger, sister, you forget more;' and then, holding
out her hands to Berenger, she exclaimed, 'Ah! sir, take us away with you.

'My child!' exclaimed the Prioress, 'you told me you were happy to be in the good course.

'Oh yes!' cried the poor child; 'but I don't want to be happy! I am forgetting all my poor
father and mother used to say. I can't help it, and they would be so grieved. Oh, take me away,
sir!

'Take care, Agathe, you will be a relapsed heretic,' said her sister, solemnly. 'For me, I
am a true Catholic. I love the beautiful images and the processions.

'Ah! but what would our mother have said!' cried poor Agathe, weeping more bitterly.

'Poor child, her old recollections have been renewed,' said the Prioress, with unchanged sweetness;
'but it will pass. My dear, the gentleman will tell you that it is as impossible for him to
take you as it is for me to let you go.

'It is so, truly, little one,' said Berenger. 'The only little girl I cold have taken with
me would have been my own;' and as her eyes looked at him wistfully, he added, 'No doubt, if
your poor mother could, she would thank this good Mother-prioress for teaching you to serve
God and be a good child.

'Monsieur speaks well and kindly,' said the Prioress; 'and now, Agathe, make your curtsey,
and take away the little ones.

'Let me ask one question more, reverend Mother,' said Berenger. 'Ah! children, did you ever
see her whom you call Isaac Gardon's daughter-in-law?

'No, sir,' said the children; 'but mother did, and she promised one day to take us to see the
baby, for it was so pretty--so white, that she had never seen the like.

'So white!' repeated Berenger to himself; and the Prioress, struck, perhaps, by the almost
flaxen locks that sparsely waved on his temples, and the hue of the ungloved hand that rested
on the edge of the grille, said, smiling, 'You come of a fair family, Monsieur.

'The White Ribaumonts,' said Berenger, 'and, moreover, my mother was called the Swan of England;
my little sisters have skins like snow. Ah! Madame, though I have failed, I go away far happier
than if I had succeeded.

'And reveal the true faith,' began the nun; but Philip in the meantime was nudging his brother,
and whispering in English, 'No Popish prayers, I say! Stay, give these poor little prisoners
one feast of the sweetmeats we brought.

Of this last hint Berenger was glad, and the Prioress readily consented to a distribution of
the dainties among the orphans. He wished to leave a more lasting token of his gratitude to
the little maiden whose father had perhaps saved Eustacie's life, and recollecting that he
had about him a great gold coin, bearing the heads of Philip and Mary, he begged leave to offer
it to Agathe, and found that it was received by good Mere Monique almost in the light of a
relic, as bearing the head of so pious a queen.

Then, to complete Philip's disgust he said, 'I took with me my aunt's blessing when I set out;
let me take yours with me also, reverend Mother.

When they were in the street again, Philip railed at him as though he had subjected himself
to a spell.

'She is almost a saint,' answered Berenger.

'And have we not saints enough of our own, without running after Popish ones behind grates?
Brother, if ever the good old days come back of invading France, I'll march straight hither,
and deliver the poor little wretches so scandalously mewed up here, and true Protestants all
the time!

'Hush! People are noticing the sound of your English.

'Let them! I never thanked Heaven properly before that I have not a drop of French---' Here
Berenger almost shook him by the shoulder, as men turned at his broad tones and foreign words,
and he walked on in silence, while Berenger at his side felt as one treading on air, so infinite
was the burden taken off his mind. Though for the present absolutely at sea as to where to
seek Eustacie, the relief from acquiescence in the horrible fate that had seemed to be hers
was such, that a flood of unspeakable happiness seemed to rush in on him, and bear him up with
a new infusion of life, buoyancy, and thankfulness.

CHAPTER XXIX. IN THE KING'S NAME

  'Under which king, Bezonian? speak or die.

  'Under King Harry.
                      --KING HENRY IV.

'One bird in the hand is not always worth two in the bush, assuredly,' said Philip, when Berenger
was calm enough to hold council on what he called this most blessed discovery; 'but where to
seek them?

'I have no fears now,' returned Berenger. 'We have not been bore through so much not to be
brought together at last. Soon, soon shall we have her! A minister so distinguished as Isaac
Gardon is sure to be heard of either at La Rochelle, Montauban, or Nimes, their great gathering
places.

'For Rochelle, then?' said Philip.

'Even so. We will be off early to-morrow, and from thence, if we do not find her there, as
I expected, we shall be able to write the thrice happy news to those at home.

Accordingly, the little cavalcade started in good time, in the cool of the morning of the bright
long day of early June, while apple petal floated down on them in the lanes like snow, and
nightingales in every hedge seemed to give voice and tune to Berenger's eager, yearning hopes.

Suddenly there was a sound of horse's feet in the road before them, and as they drew aside
to make way, a little troop of gendarmes filled the narrow lane. The officer, a rough, harsh-looking
man, laid his hand on Berenger's bridle, with the words, 'In the name of the King!

Philip began to draw his sword with one hand, and with the other to urge his horse between
the officer and his brother, but Berenger called out, 'Back! This gentleman mistakes my person.
I am the Baron de Ribaumont, and have a safe-conduct from the King.

'What king?' demanded the officer.

'From King Charles.

'I arrest you,' said the officer, 'in the name of King Henry III, and of the Queen Regent Catherine.

'The King dead?' Exclaimed Berenger.

'On the 30th of May. Now, sir.

'Your warrant--your cause?' still demanded Berenger.

'There will be time enough for that when you are safely lodged, said the captain, roughly pulling
at the rein, which he had held all the time.

'What, no warrant?' shouted Philip, 'he is a mere robber!' and with drawn sword he was precipitating
himself on the captain, when another gendarme, who had been on the watch, grappled with him,
and dragged him off his horse before he could strike a blow. The other two English, Humfrey
Holt and John Smithers, strong full-grown men, rode in fiercely to the rescue, and Berenger
himself struggled furiously to loose himself from the captain, and deliver his brother. Suddenly
there was the report of a pistol: poor Smithers fell, there was a moment of standing aghast,
and in that moment the one man and the two youths were each pounced on by three or four gendarmes,
thrown down and pinioned.

'Is this usage for gentlemen?' exclaimed Berenger, as he was roughly raised to his feet.

'The King's power has been resisted,' was all the answer; and when he would have been to see
how it was with poor Smithers, one of the men-at-arms kicked over the body with sickening brutality,
saying, 'Dead enough, heretic and English carrion!

Philip uttered a cry of loathing horror, and turned white; Berenger, above all else, felt a
sort of frenzied despair as he thought of the peril of the boy who had been trusted to him.

'Have you had enough, sir?' said the captain. 'Mount and come.

They could only let themselves be lifted to their horses, and their hands were then set free
to use their bridles, each being guarded by a soldier on each side of him. Philip attempted
but once to speak, and that in English: 'Next time I shall take my pistol.

He was rudely silenced, and rode on with wide-open stolid eyes and dogged face, steadfastly
resolved that no Frenchman should see him flinch, and vexed that Berenger had his riding mask
on so that his face could not be studied; while he, on his side, was revolving all causes possible
for his arrest, and all means of enforcing he liberation, if not of himself at least of Philip
and Humfrey. He looked round for Guibert, but could not see him.

They rode on through the intricate lanes till the sun was high and scorching, and Berenger
felt how far he was from perfect recovery. At last, however, some little time past noon, the
gendarmes halted at a stone fountain, outside a village, and disposing a sufficient guard around
his captives, the officer permitted them to dismount and rest, while he, with the rest of the
troop and the horses, went to the village CABARET. Philip would have asked his brother what
it meant, and what was to be done, but Berenger shook his head, and intimated that silence
was safest as present, since they might be listened to; and Philip, who so much imagined treachery
and iniquity to be the order of the day in France that he was scarcely surprised at the present
disaster, resigned himself to the same sullen endurance. Provisions and liquor were presently
sent up from the inn, but Berenger could taste nothing but the cold water of the fountain,
which trickled out cool and fresh beneath an arch surmounted by a figure of Our Lady. He bathed
his face and head in the refreshing spring, and lay down on a cloak in the shade, Philip keeping
a constant change of drenched kerchiefs on his brow, and hoping that he slept, till at the
end to two or three hours the captain returned, gave the word to horse, and the party rode
on through intricate lanes, blossoming with hawthorn, and ringing with songs of birds that
spoke a very different language now to Berenger's heart from what they had said in the hopeful
morning.

A convent bell was ringing to evensong, when passing its gateway; the escort turned up a low
hill, on the summit of which stood a chateau, covering a considerable extent of ground, with
a circuit of wall, whitewashed so as perfectly to glare in the evening sun; at every angle
a round, slim turret, crowned by a brilliant red-tiled extinguisher-like cap; and the whole
surmounted by a tall old keep in the centre. There was a square projection containing an arched
gateway, with heavy doorways, which were thrown open as the party approached. Philip looked
up as he rode in, and over the doorway beheld the familiar fretted shield, with the leopard
in the corner, and 'A moi Ribaumont' round it. Could it then be Berenger's own castle, and
was it thus that he was approaching it? He himself had not looked up; he was utterly spent
with fatigue, dejection, and the severe headache brought on by the heat of the sun, and was
only intent on rallying his powers for the crisis of fate that was probably approaching; and
thus scarcely took note of the court into which he rode, lying between the gateway and the
corps de logis, a building erected when comfort demanded more space than was afforded by the
old keep, against which one end leant; but still, though inclosed in a court, the lower windows
were small and iron-barred, and all air of luxury was reserved for the mullioned casements
of the upper storey. The court was flagged, but grass shot up between the stones, and the trim
air of ease and inhabited comfort to which the brothers were used at home was utterly wanting.
Berenger was hustled off his horse, and roughly pushed through a deep porch, where the first
thing he heard was the Chevalier de Ribaumont's voice in displeasure.

'How now, sir; hands off! Is this the way you conduct my nephew?

'He resisted, sir.

'Sir,' said Berenger, advancing into the hall, 'I know not the meaning of this. I am peacefully
traveling with a passport from the King, when I am set upon, no warrant shown me, my faithful
servant slain, myself and my brother, an English subject, shamefully handled.

'The violence shall be visited on whatever rascal durst insult a gentleman and my nephew,'
said the Chevalier. 'For release, it shall be looked to; but unfortunately it is too true that
there are orders from the Queen in Council for your apprehension, and it was only on my special
entreaty for the honour of the family, and the affection I bear you, that I was allowed to
receive you here instead of your being sent to an ordinary prison.

'On what pretext?' demanded Berenger.

'It is known that you have letters in your possession from escaped traitors now in England,
to La Noue, Duplessis Mornay, and other heretics.

'That is easily explained,' said Berenger. 'You know well, sir, that they were to facilitate
my search at La Sablerie. You shall see them yourself, sir.

'That I must assuredly do,' replied the Chevalier, 'for it is the order of her Majesty, I regret
to say, that your person and baggage be searched;' then, as indignant colour rushed into Berenger's
face, and an angry exclamation was beginning, he added, 'Nay, I understand, my dear cousin,
it is very painful, but we would spare you as much as possible. It will be quite enough if
the search is made by myself in the presence of this gentleman, who will only stand by for
form's sake. I have no doubt it will enable us quickly to clear up matters, and set you free
again. Do me the honour to follow me to the chamber destined for you.

'Let me see the order for my arrest,' said Berenger, holding his head high.

'The English scruple must be gratified,' said the Chevalier. And accordingly the gendarme captain
unfolded before him a paper, which was evidently a distinct order to arrest and examine the
person of Henri Beranger Eustache, Baron de Ribaumont and Sieur de Leurre, suspected of treasonable
practices--and it bore the signature of Catherine.

'There is nothing here said of my step-father's son, Philip Thistlewood, nor of my servant,
Humfrey Holt,' said Berenger, gathering the sense with his dizzy eyes as best he could. 'They
cannot be detained, being born subjects of the Queen of England.

'They intercepted the justice of the King,' said the captain, laying his hand on Philip's shoulder.
'I shall have them off with me to the garrison of Lugon, and deal with them there.

'Wait!' said the Chevalier, interposing before Berenger's fierce, horror-struck expostulation
could break forth; 'this is an honourable young gentleman, son of a chevalier of good reputation
in England, and he need not be so harshly dealt with. You will not separate either him or the
poor groom from my nephew, so the Queen's authority be now rightly acknowledged.

The captain shrugged his shoulders, as if displeased; and the Chevalier, turning to Berenger,
said, 'You understand, nephew, the lot of you all depends on your not giving umbrage to these
officers of her Majesty. I will do my poor best for you; but submission is first needed.

Berenger knew enough of his native country to be aware that la justice du Roi was a terrible
thing, and that Philip's resistance had really put him in so much danger that it was needful
to be most careful not further to offend the functionary of Government; and abhorrent as the
proposed search was to him, he made no further objection, but taking Philip's arm, lest they
should be separated, he prepared to follow wherever he was to be conducted. The Chevalier led
the way along a narrow stone passage, with loophole-windows here and there; and Philip, for
all his proud, indifferent bearing, felt his flesh creep as he looked for a stair descending
into the bowels of the earth. A stair there was, but it went up instead of down, and after
mounting this, and going through a sort of ante-room, a door was opened into a tolerably spacious
apartment, evidently in the old keep; for the two windows on opposite sides were in an immensely
massive wall, and the floor above and vaulting below were of stone; but otherwise there was
nothing repulsive in the appearance of the room. There was a wood fire on the hearth; the sun,
setting far to the north, peeped in aslant at one window; a mat was on the floor, tapestry
on the lower part of the walls; a table and chairs, and a walnut chest, with a chess-board
and a few books on it, were as much furniture as was to be seen in almost any living-room of
the day. Humfrey and Guibert, too, were already there, with the small riding valises they and
poor Smithers had had in charge. These were at one opened, but contained merely clothes and
linen, nothing else that was noticed, except three books, at which the captain looked with
a stupid air; and the Chevalier did not seem capable of discovering more than that all three
were Latin--one, he believed, the Bible.

'Yes, sir, the Vulgate--a copy older than the Reformation, so not liable to be called an heretical
version,' said Berenger, to whom a copy had been given by Lady Walwyn, as more likely to be
saved if his baggage were searched. 'The other is the Office and Psalter after our English
rite; and this last is not mine, but Mr. Sidney's--a copy of Virgilius Maro, which he had left
behind at Paris.

The Chevalier, not willing to confess that he had taken the English Prayer-book for Latin,
hastily said, 'Nothing wrong there--no, no, nothing that will hurt the State; may it only be
so with what you carry on your person, fair cousin. Stand back, gentleman, this is gear for
myself alone. Now, fair nephew,' he added, 'not a hand shall be laid on you, if you will give
me your honourable word, as a nobleman, that you are laying before me all that you carry about you.

An instant's thought convinced Berenger that resistance would save nothing, and merely lead
to indignity to himself and danger to Philip; and therefore he gave the promise to show everything
about him, without compulsion. Accordingly, he produced his purse for current expenses, poor
King Charles's safe-conduct, and other articles of no consequence, from his pockets; then reluctantly
opened his doublet, and took off the belt containing his store of gold, which had been replenished
at Walsingham's. This was greedily eyed by the captain, but the Chevalier at once made it over
to Philip's keeping, graciously saying, 'We do no more than duty requires;' but at the same
time he made a gesture towards another small purse that hung round Berenger's neck by a black
ribbon.

'On my sacred word and honour,' said Berenger, 'it contains nothing important to any save myself.

'Alas! my bounden duty,' urged the Chevalier.

An angry reply died on Berenger's lip. At the thought of Philip, he opened the purse, and held
out the contents on his palm: a tiny gold ring, a tress of black hair, a fragment of carnation-ribbon
pricked with pin-holes, a string of small worthless yellow shells, and, threaded with them,
a large pear-shaped pearl of countless price. Even the Chevalier was touched at the sight of
this treasury, resting on the blanched palm of the thin, trembling hand, and jealously watched
by eyes glistening with sudden moisture, though the lips were firm set. 'Alas! my poor young
cousin,' he said, 'you loved her well.

'Not loved, but love,' muttered Berenger to himself, as if having recourse to the only cordial
that could support him through the present suffering; and he was closing his fingers again
over his precious hoard, when the Chevalier added, 'Stay! Nephew--that pearl?

'Is one of the chaplet; the token she sent to England,' he answered.

'Pauvre petite! Then, at least a fragment remains of the reward of our ancestor's courage,'
said the Chevalier.

And Berenger did not feel it needful to yield up that still better possession, stored within
his heart, that la petite and her pearls were safe together. It was less unendurable to produce
the leather case from a secret pocket within his doublet, since, unwilling as he was that any
eye should scan the letters it contained, there was nothing in them that could give any clue
towards tracing her. Nothing had been written or received since his interview with the children
at Lucon. There was, indeed, Eustacie's letter to his mother, a few received at Paris from
Lord Walwyn, reluctantly consenting to his journey in quest of his child, his English passport,
the unfortunate letters to La Noue; and what evidently startled the Chevalier more than all
the rest, the copy of the certificate of the ratification of the marriage; but his consternation
was so arranged as to appear to be all on behalf of his young kinsman. 'This is serious!' he
said, striking his forehead; 'you will be accused of forging the late King's name.

'This is but a copy,' said Berenger, pointing to the heading; 'the original has been sent with
our Ambassador's dispatches to England.

'It is a pity,' said the Chevalier, looking thoroughly vexed, 'that you should have brought
fresh difficulties on yourself for a mere piece of waste paper to be affected by the validity
of your marriage. Dear cousin,'--he glanced at the officer and lowered his voice,--'let me
tear this paper; it would only do you harm, and the Papal decree annuls it.

'I have given my word,' said Berenger, 'that all that could do me harm should be delivered
up! Besides,' he added, 'even had I the feeling for my own honour and that of my wife and child,
living or dead, the harm, it seems to me, would be to those who withhold her lands from me.

'Ah, fair nephew! you have fallen among designing persons who have filled your head with absurd
claims; but I will not argue the point now, since it becomes a family, not a State matter.
These papers'--and he took them into his hand--'must be examined, and to-morrow Captain Delarue
will take them to Paris, with any explanation you may desire to offer. Meantime you and your
companions remain my guest, at full liberty, provided you will give me your parole to attempt
no escape.

'No, sir,' said Berenger, hotly, 'we will not become our own jailers, nor acquiesce in this
unjust detention. I warn you that I am a naturalized Englishman, acknowledged by the Queen
as my grandfather's heir, and the English Ambassador will inform the court what Queen Elizabeth
thinks of such dealings with her subjects.

'Well said,' exclaimed Philip, and drawing himself up, he added, 'I refuse my parole, and warn
you that it is at your peril that you imprison an Englishman.

'Very well, gentlemen,' said the Chevalier; 'the difference will be that I shall unwillingly
be forced to let Captain Delarue post guards at the outlets of this tower. A room beneath is
prepared for your grooms, and the court is likewise free to you. I will endeavour to make your
detention as little irksome as you will permit, and meantime allow me to show you your sleeping
chamber. He then politely, as if he had been ushering a prince to his apartment, led the way,
pointing to the door through which they had entered the keep, and saying, 'This is the only
present communication with the dwelling-house. Two gendarmes will always be on the outside.'
He conducted the young men up a stone spiral stair to another room, over that which they had
already seen, and furnished as fairly as ordinary sleeping chambers were wont to be.

Here, said their compulsory host, he would leave them to prepare for supper, when they would
do him the honour to join him in the eating-hall on their summons by the steward.

His departing bow was duly returned by Berenger, but no sooner did his steps die away on the
stairs than the young man threw himself down on his bed, in a paroxysm of suffering both mental
and bodily.

'Berry, Berry, what is this? Speak to me. What does it all mean? cried Philip.

'How can I tell?' said Berenger, showing his face for a moment, covered with tears; 'only that
my only friend is dead, and some villainous trick has seized me, just--just as I might have
found her. And I've been the death of my poor groom, and got you into the power of these vile
dastards! Oh, would that I had come alone! Would that they had had the sense to aim direct!

'Brother, brother, anything but this!' cried Philip. 'The rogues are not worth it. Sir Francis
will have us out in no time, or know the reason why. I'd scorn to let them wring a tear from me.

'I hope they never may, dear Phil, nor anything worse.

'Now,' continued Philip, 'the way will be to go down to supper, since they will have it so,
and sit and eat at one's ease as if one cared for them no more than cat and dog. Hark! there's
the steward speaking to Guibert. Come, Berry, wash your face and come.

'I--my head aches far too much, were there nothing else.

'What! it is nothing but the sun,' said Philip. 'Put a bold face on it, man, and show them
how little you heed.

'How LITTLE I heed!' bitterly repeated Berenger, turning his face away, utterly unnerved between
disappointment, fatigue, and pain; and Philip at that moment had little mercy. Dismayed and
vaguely terrified, yet too resolute in national pride to betray his own feelings, he gave vent
to his vexation by impatience with a temperament more visibly sensitive than his own: 'I never
thought you so mere a Frenchman,' he said contemptuously. 'If you weep and wail so like a sick
wench, they will soon have their will of you! I'd have let them kill me before they searched me.

''Tis bad enough without this from you, Phil,' said Berenger, faintly, for he was far too much
spent for resentment or self-defence, and had only kept up before the Chevalier by dint of
strong effort. Philip was somewhat aghast, both at the involuntary gesture of pain, and at
finding there was not even spirit to be angry with him: but his very dismay served at the moment
only to feed his displeasure; and he tramped off in his heavy boots, which he chose to wear
as a proof of disdain for his companions. He explained that M. de Ribaumont was too much fatigued
to come to supper, and he was accordingly marched along the corridor, with the steward before
him bearing a lighted torch, and two gendarmes with halberds behind him. And in his walk he
had ample time for, first, the resolution that illness, and not dejection, should have all
the credit of Berenger's absence; then for recollecting of how short standing had been his
brother's convalescence; and lastly, for a fury of self-execration for his own unkindness,
rude taunts, and neglect of the recurring illness. He would have turned about and gone back
at once, but the two gendarmes were close behind, and he knew Humfrey would attend to his brother;
so he walked on to the hall--a handsome chamber, hung with armour and spoils of hunting, with
a few pictures on the panels, and a great carved music-gallery at one end. The table was laid
out somewhat luxuriously for four, according to the innovation which was beginning to separate
the meals of the grandees from those of their household.

Great concern was expressed by the Chevalier, as Philip, in French, much improved since the
time of his conversation with Madame de Selinville, spoke of his brother's indisposition, saying
with emphasis, as he glared at Captain Delarue, that Maitre Pare had forbidden all exposure
to mid-day heat, and that all their journeys had been made in morning or evening coolness.
'My young friend,' as his host called him, 'should, he was assured, have mentioned this, since
Captain Delarue had no desire but to make his situation as little painful as possible.' And
the Chevalier sent his steward at once to offer everything the house contained that his prisoner
could relish for supper; and then anxiously questioned Philip on his health and diet, obtaining
very short and glum answers. The Chevalier and the captain glanced at each other with little
shrugs; and Philip, becoming conscious of his shock hair, splashed doublet, and dirty boots,
had vague doubts whether his English dignity were not being regarded as English lubberliness;
but, of course, he hated the two Frenchmen all the more, and received their civility with greater
gruffness. They asked him the present object of his journey--though, probably, the Chevalier
knew it before, and he told of the hope that they had of finding the child at Lucon.

'Vain, of course?' said the Chevalier. 'Poor infant! It is well for itself, as for the rest
of us, that its troubles were ended long ago.'

Philip started indignantly.

'Does your brother still nurture any vain hope?' said the Chevalier.

'Not vain, I trust,' said Philip.

'Indeed! Who can foolishly have so inspired him with a hope that merely wears out his youth,
and leads him into danger?'

Philip held his tongue, resolved to be impenetrable; and he was so far successful, that the
Chevalier merely became convinced that the brothers were not simply riding to La Rochelle to
embark for England, but had some hope and purpose in view; though as to what that might be,
Philip's bluff replies and stubborn silence were baffling.

After the meal, the Chevalier insisted on coming to see how his guest fared; and Philip could
not prevent him. They found Berenger sitting on the side of his bed, having evidently just
started up on hearing their approach. Otherwise he did not seem to have moved since Philip
left him; he had not attempted to undress; and Humfrey told Philip that not a word had been
extracted from him, but commands to let him alone.

However, he had rallied his forces to meet the Chevalier, and answered manfully to his excuses
for the broiling ride to which he had been exposed, that it mattered not, the effect would
pass, it was a mere chance; and refused all offers of medicaments, potions, and TISANES, till
his host at length left the room with a most correct exchange of good nights.

'Berry, Berry, what a brute I have been!' cried Philip.

'Foolish lad!' and Berenger half smiled. 'Now help me to bed, for the room turns round!'

CHAPTER XXX. CAGED IN THE BLACKBIRD'S NEST

      Let him shun castles;
Safer shall he be on the sandy plain Than where castles mounted
stand.--KING HENRY VI.

While Berenger slept a heavy morning's sleep after a resless night, Philip explored the narrow
domain above and below. The keep and its little court had evidently been the original castle,
built when the oddly-nicknamed Fulkes and Geoffreys of Anjou had been at daggers drawn with
the Dukes of Normandy and Brittany, but it had since, like most other such ancient feudal fortresses,
become the nucleus of walls and buildings for use, defence, or ornament, that lay beneath him
like a spider's web, when he had gained the roof of the keep, garnished with pepper-box turrets
at each of the four angles. Beyond lay the green copses and orchards of the Bocage, for it
was true, as he had at first suspected, that this was the chateau de Nid de Merle, and that
Berenger was a captive in his wife's own castle.

Chances of escape were the lad's chief thought, but the building on which he stood went sheer
down for a considerable way. Then on the north side there came out the sharp, high-pitched,
tiled roof of the corps du logis; on the south, another roof, surmounted by a cross at the
gable, and evidently belonging to the chapel; on the other two sides lay courts--that to the
east, a stable-yard; that to the west, a small narrow, chilly-looking, paved inclosure, with
enormously-massive walls, the doorway walled up, and looking like a true prison-yard. Beyond
this wall--indeed, on every side--extended offices, servants' houses, stables, untidy desolate-looking
gardens, and the whole was inclosed by the white wall with flanking red-tiled turrets, whose
gaudy appearance had last night made Philip regard the whole as a flimsy, Frenchchified erection,
but he now saw it to be of extremely solid stone and lime, and with no entrance but the great
barbican gateway they had entered by; moreover, with a yawning dry moat all round. Wherever
he looked he saw these tall, pointed red caps, resembling, he thought, those worn by the victims
of an auto-de-fe, as one of Walsingham's secretaries had described them to him; and he ground
his teeth at them, as thought they grinned at him like emissaries of the Inquisition.

Descending, he found Berenger dressing in haste to avoid receiving an invalid visit from the
Chevalier, looking indeed greatly shaken, but hardly so as would have been detected by eyes
that had not seen him during his weeks of hope and recovery. He was as resolved as Philip could
wish against any sign of weakness before his enemy, and altogether disclaimed illness, refusing
the stock of cooling drinks, cordials, and febrifuges, which the Chevalier said had been sent
by his sister the Abbess of Bellaise. He put the subject of his health aside, only asking if
this were the day that the gendarme-captain would return to Paris, and then begging to see
that officer, so as to have a distinct understanding of the grounds of his imprisonment. The
captain had, however, been a mere instrument; and when Philip clamoured to be taken before
the next justice of the peace, even Berenger smiled at him for thinking that such a being existed
in France. The only cause alleged was the vague but dangerous suspicion of conveying correspondence
between England and the heretics, and this might become extremely perilous to one undeniably
half English, regarded as whole Huguenot, caught on the way to La Rochelle with a letter to
La Noue in his pocket; and, moreover, to one who had had a personal affray with a king famous
for storing up petty offences, whom the last poor king had favoured, and who, in fine, had
claims to estates that could not spared to the Huguenot interest.

He was really not sure that there was not some truth in the professions of the Chevalier being
anxious to protect him from the Queen-mother and the Guises; he had never been able to divest
himself of a certain trust in his old kinsman's friendliness, and he was obliged to be beholden
to him for the forms in which to couch his defence. At the same time he wrote to Sir Francis
Walsingham, and to his grandfather, but with great caution, lest his letters should be inspected
by his enemies, and with the less hope of their availing him because it was probable that the
Ambassador would return home on the king's death. No answer could be expected for at least
a fortnight, and even then it was possible that the Queen-mother might choose to refer the
cause to King Henry, who was then in Poland.

Berenger wrote these letters with much thought and care, but when they were once sealed, he
collapsed again into despair and impatience, and frantically paced the little court as if he
would dash himself against the walls that detained him from Eustacie; then threw himself moodily
into a chair, hid his face in his crossed arms, and fell a prey to all the wretched visions
called up by an excited brain.

However, he was equally alive with Philip to the high-spirited resolution that his enemies
should not perceive or triumph in his dejection. He showed himself at the noon-day dinner,
before Captain Delarue departed, grave and silent, but betraying no agitation; and he roused
himself from his sad musings at the supper-hour, to arrange his hair, and assume the ordinary
dress of gentlemen in the evening; though Philip laughed at the roses adorning his shoes, and
his fresh ruff, as needless attentions to an old ruffian like the Chevalier. However, Philip
started when he entered the hall, and beheld, not the Chevalier alone, but with him the beautiful
lady of the velvet coach, and another stately, extremely handsome dame, no longer in her first
youth, and in costly black and white garments. When the Chevalier called her his sister, Madame
de Bellaise, Philip had no notion that she was anything but a widow, living a secular life;
and though a couple of nuns attended her, their dress was so much less conventual than Cecily's
that he did not at first find them out. It was explained that Madame de Selinville was residing
with her aunt, and that, having come to visit her father, he had detained the ladies to supper,
hoping to enliven the sojourn of his beaux cousins.

Madame de Selinville, looking anxiously at Berenger, hoped she saw him in better health. He
replied, stiffly, that he was perfectly well; and then, by way of safety, repaired to the society
of the Abbess, who immediately began plying him with questions about England, its court, and
especially the secret marriage of Queen Elisabeth and 'ce Comte de Dudley,' on which she was
so minutely informed as to put him to the blush. Then she was very curious about the dispersed
convents, and how many of the nuns had married; and she seemed altogether delighted to have
secured the attention of a youth from the outer world. His soul at first recoiled from her
as one of Eustacie's oppressors, and from her unconvent-like talk; and yet he could not but
think her a good-natured person, and wonder if she could rally have been hard upon his poor
little wife. And she, who had told Eustacie she would strangle with her own hands the scion
of the rival house!--she, like most women, was much more bitter against an unseen being out
of reach, than towards a courteously-mannered, pale, suffering-looking youth close beside her.
She had enough affection for Eustacie to have grieved much at her wanderings and at her fate;
and now the sorrow-stricken look that by no effort could be concealed really moved her towards
the youth bereaved husband. Besides, were not all feuds on the point of being made up by the
excellent device concocted between her brother and her niece?

Meantime, Philip was in raptures with the kindness of the beautiful Madame de Selinville. He,
whom the Mistresses Walsingham treated as a mere clumsy boy, was promoted by her manner to
be a man and a cavalier. He blushed up to the roots of his hair and looked sheepish whenever
one of her entrancing smiles lit upon him; but then she inquired after his brother so cordially,
she told him so openly how brilliant had been Berenger's career at the court, she regretted
so heartily their present danger and detention, and promised so warmly to use her interest
with Queen Catherine, that in the delight of being so talked to, he forgot his awkwardness
and spoke freely and confidentially, maybe too confidentially, for he caught Berenger frowning
at him, and made a sudden halt in his narrative, disconcerted but very angry with his brother
for his distrust.

When the ladies had ridden away to the convent in the summer evening, and the two brothers
had returned to their prison, Philip would have begun to rave about Madame de Selinville, but
his mouth was stopped at once with 'Don't be such a fool, Phil!' and when Perrine shut his
eyes, leant back, and folded his arms together, there was no more use in talking to him.

This exceeding defection continued for a day or two, while Berenger's whole spirit chafed in
agony at his helplessness, and like demons there ever haunted him the thoughts of what might
betide Eustacie, young, fair, forsaken, and believing herself a widow. Proudly defiant as he
showed himself to all eyes beyond his tower, he seemed to be fast gnawing and pining himself
away in the anguish he suffered through these long days of captivity.

Perhaps it was Philip's excitement about any chance of meeting Madame de Selinville that first
roused him from the contemplation of his own misery. It struck him that if he did not rouse
himself to exert his influence, the boy, left to no companionship save what he could make for
himself, might be led away by intercourse with the gendarmes, or by the blandishments of Diane,
whatever might be her game. He must be watched over, and returned to Sir Marmaduke the same
true-hearted honest lad who had left home. Nor had Berenger lain so long under Cecily St. John's
tender watching without bearing away some notes of patience, trust, and dutifulness that returned
upon him as his mind recovered tone after the first shock. The whispers that had bidden him
tarry the Lord's leisure, be strong, and commit his way to Him who could bring it to pass,
and could save Eustacie as she had already been saved, returned to him once more: he chid himself
for his faintness of heart, rallied his powers, and determined that cheerfulness, dutifulness,
and care for Philip should no longer fail.

So he reviewed his resources, and in the first place arranged for a brief daily worship with
his two English fellow-prisoners, corresponding to the home hours of chapel service. Then he
proposed to Philip to spend an hour every day over the study of the Latin Bible; and when Philip
showed himself reluctant to give up his habit of staring over the battlements, he represented
that an attack on their faith was not so improbable but that they ought to be prepared for it.

'I'm quite prepared,' quoth Philip; 'I shall not listen to a word they say.'

However, he submitted to this, but was more contumacious as to Berenger's other proposal of
profiting by Sidney's copy of Virgil. Here at least he was away from Mr. Adderley and study,
and it passed endurance to have Latin and captivity both at once. He was more obliged for Berenger's
offer to impart to him the instruction in fencing he had received during his first visit to
Paris; the Chevalier made no difficulty about lending them foils, and their little court became
the scene of numerous encounters, as well as of other games and exercises. More sedentary sports
were at their service, chess, tables, dice, or cards, but Philip detested these, and they were
only played in the evening, or on a rainy afternoon, by Berenger and the Chevalier.

It was clearly no part of the old gentleman's plan to break their health or spirits. He insisted
on taking them out riding frequently, though always with four gendarmes with loaded arquebuses,
so as to preclude all attempt at escape, or conversation with the peasants. The rides were
hateful to both youths, but Berenger knew that so many hours of tedium were thus disposed of,
and hoped also to acquire some knowledge of the country; indeed, he looked at every cottage
and every peasant with affectionate eyes, as probably having sheltered Eustacie; and Philip,
after one visit paid to the convent at Bellaise, was always in hopes of making such another.
His boyish admiration of Madame de Selinville was his chief distraction, coming on in accesses
whenever there was a hope of seeing her, and often diverting Berenger by its absurdities, even
though at other times he feared that the lad might be led away by it, or dissension sown between
them. Meetings were rare--now and then Madame de Selinville would appear at dinner or at supper
as her father's guest; and more rarely, the Chevalier would turn his horse's head in the direction
of Bellaise, and the three gentlemen would be received in the unpartitioned parlour, and there
treated to such lemon cakes as had been the ruin of La Sablerie; but in general the castle
and the convent had little intercourse, or only just enough to whet the appetite of the prisoners
for what constituted their only variety.

Six weeks had lagged by before any answer from Paris was received, and then there was no reply
from Walsingham, who had, it appeared, returned home immediately after King Charles's funeral.
The letter from the Council bore that the Queen-mother was ready to accept the Baron de Ribaumont's
excuses in good part, and to consider his youth; and she had no doubt of his being treated
with the like indulgence by the King, provided he would prove himself a loyal subject, by embracing
the Catholic faith, renouncing all his illegitimate claims to the estates of Nid de Merle,
and, in pledge of his sincerity, wedding his cousin, the Countess de Selinville, so soon as
a dispensation should have been procured. On no other consideration could he be pardoned or
set at liberty.

'Then,' said Berenger, slowly, 'a prisoner I must remain until it be the will of Heaven to
open the doors.'

'Fair nephew!' exclaimed the Chevalier, 'make no rash replies. Bethink you to what you expose
yourself by obstinacy; I may no longer be able to protect you when the King returns. And he
further went on to represent that, by renouncing voluntarily all possible claims on the Nid
de Merle estates, the Baron would save the honour of poor Eustacie (which indeed equally concerned
the rest of the family), since they then would gladly drop all dispute of the validity of the
marriage; and the lands of Selinville would be an ample equivalent for these, as well as for
all expectations in England.

'Sir, it is impossible!' said Berenger. 'My wife lives.'

'Comment! when you wear mourning for her.'

'I wear black because I have been able to procure nothing else since I have been convinced
that she did not perish at La Sablerie. I was on my way to seek her when I was seized and detained
here.'

'Where would you have sought her, my poor cousin?' compassionately asked the Chevalier.

'That I know not. She may be in England by this time; but that she escaped from La Sablerie,
I am well assured.'

'Alas! my poor friend, you feed on delusion. I have surer evidence--you shall see the man yourself--one
of my son's people, who was actually at the assault, and had strict orders to seek and save
her. Would that I could feel the least hope left!'

'Is the man here? Let me see him,' said Berenger, hastily.

He was at once sent for, and proved to be one of the stable servants, a rough, soldierly-looking
man, who made no difficulty in telling that M. de Nid de Merle had bidden his own troop to
use every effort to reach the Widow Laurent's house, and secure the lady. They had made for
it, but missed the way, and met with various obstacles; and when they reached it, it was already
in flames, and he had seen for a moment Mademoiselle de Nid de Merle, whom he well knew by
sight, with an infant in her arms at an upper window. He had called to her by name, and was
about to send for a ladder, when recognizing the Ribaumont colours, she had turned back, and
thrown herself and her child into the flames. M. de Nid de Merle was frantic when he heard
of it, and they had searched for the remains among the ruins; but, bah! it was like a lime-kiln,
nothing was to be found--all was calcined.

'No fragment left?' said Berenger; 'not a corner of tile or beam?'

'Not so much wood as you could boil an egg with; I will swear it on the Mass.'

'That is needless,' said Berenger. 'I have seen the spot myself. That is all I desired to ask.'

The Chevalier would have taken his hand and condoled with him over the horrible story; but
he drew back, repeating that he had seen Widow Laurent's house, and that he saw that some parts
of the man's story were so much falsified that he could not believe the rest. Moreover, he
knew that Eustacie had not been in the town at the time of the siege.

Now the Chevalier bona fide believed the man's story, so far as that he never doubted that
Eustacie had perished, and he looked on Berenger's refusal to accept the tale as the mournful
last clinging to a vain hope. In his eyes, the actual sight of Eustacie, and the total destruction
of the house, were mere matters of embellishment, possibly untrue, but not invalidating the
main fact. He only said, 'Well, my friend, I will not press you while the pain of this narration
is still fresh.'

'Thank you, sir; but this is not pain, for I believe not a word of it; therefore it is impossible
for me to entertain the proposal, even if I could forsake my faith or my English kindred. You
remember, sir, that I returned this same answer at Paris, when I had no hope that my wife survived.'

'True, my fair cousin, but I fear time will convince you that this constancy is unhappily misplaced.
You shall have time to consider; and when it is proved to you that my poor niece is out of
the reach of your fidelity, and when you have become better acquainted with the claims of the
Church to your allegiance, then may it only prove that your conversion does not come too late.
I have the honour to take my leave.'

'One moment more, sir. Is there no answer as to my brother?'

'None, cousin. As I told you, your country has at present no Ambassador; but, of course, on
your fulfillment of the conditions, he would be released with you.'

'So,' said Philip, when the old knight had quitted the room, 'of course you cannot marry while
Eustacie lives; but if---'

'Not another word, profane boy!' angrily cried Berenger.

'I was only going to say, it is a pity of one so goodly not to bring her over to the true faith,
and take her to England.'

'Much would she be beholden to you!' said Berenger. 'So!' he added, sighing, 'I had little
hope but that it would be thus. I believe it is all a web of this old plotter's weaving, and
that the Queen-mother acts in it at his request. He wants only to buy me off with his daughter's
estates from asserting my claim to this castle and lands; and I trow he will never rise up
here till--till---'

'Till when, Berry?'

'Till mayhap my grandfather can move the Queen to do something for us; or till Madame de Selinville
sees a face she likes better than her brother's carving; or, what can I tell? till malice is
tired out, and Heaven's will sets us free. May Eustacie only have reached home! But I'm sorry
for you, my poor Phil.'

'Never heed, brother,' said Philip; 'what is prison to me, so that I can now and then see those
lovely eyes?'

And the languishing air of the clumsy lad was so comical as to beguile Berenger into a laugh.
Yet Berenger's own feeling would go back to his first meeting with Diane; and as he thought
of the eyes then fixed on him, he felt that he was under a trial that might become more severe.

CHAPTER XXXI. THE DARK POOL OF THE FUTURE

      Triumph, triumph, only she
      That knit his bonds can set him free.
                              --SOUTHEY

No change was made in the life of the captives of Nid de Merle after the answer from Paris,
except that Pere Bonami, who had already once or twice dined at the Chevalier's table, was
requested to make formal exposition of the errors of the Reformers and of the tenets of his
own Church to the Baron de Ribaumont.

Philip took such good care not to be deluded that, though he sat by to see fair play, yet it
was always with his elbows on the table and his fingers in his ears, regardless of appearing
to the priest in the character of the deaf adder. After all, he was not the object, and good
Pere Bonami at first thought the day his own, when he found that almost all his arguments against
Calvinism were equally impressed upon Berenger's mind, but the differences soon revealed themselves;
and the priest, though a good man, was not a very happily-chosen champion, for he was one of
the old-fashioned, scantily-instructed country priests, who were more numerous before the Jesuit
revival of learning, and knew nothing of controversy save that adapted to the doctrines of
Calvin; so that in dealing with an Anglican of the school of Ridley and Hooker, it was like
bow ad arrow against sword. And tin those days of change, controversial reading was one of
the primary studies even of young laymen, and Lord Walwyn, with a view to his grandson's peculiar
position, had taken care that he should be well instructed, so that he was not at all unequal
to the contest. Moreover, apart from argument, he clung as a point of honour to the Church
as to the wife that he had accepted in his childhood; and often tried to recall the sketch
that Philip Sidney had once given him of a tale that a friend of his designed to turn into
a poem, like Ariosto's, in terza rima, of a Red Cross knight separated from his Una as the
true faith, and tempted by a treacherous Duessa, who impersonated at once Falsehood and Rome.
And he knew so well that the last relaxation of his almost terrified resistance would make
him so entirely succumb to Diane's beauty and brilliancy, that he kept himself stiffly frigid
and reserved.

Diane never openly alluded to the terms on which he stood, but he often found gifts from unknown
hands placed in his room. The books which he had found there were changed when he had had time
to study them; and marks were placed in some of the most striking passages. They were of the
class that turned the brain of the Knight of La Mancha, but with a predominance of the pastoral,
such as Diane of George of Montemayor and his numerous imitators--which Philip thought horrible
stuff--enduring nothing but a few of the combats of Amadis de Gaul or Palmerin of England,
until he found that Madame de Selinville prodigiously admired the 'silly swains more silly
than their sheep,' and was very anxious that M. le Baron should be touched by their beauties;
whereupon honest Philip made desperate efforts to swallow them in his brother's stead, but
was always found fast asleep in the very middle of arguments between Damon and Thyrsis upon
the devoirs of love, or the mournings of some disconsolate nymph over her jealousies of a favoured
rival.

One day, a beautiful ivory box, exhaling sweet perfume, appeared in the prison chamber, and
therewith a sealed letter in verse, containing an affecting description of how Corydon had
been cruelly torn by the lions in endeavouring to bear away Sylvie from her cavern, how Sylvie
had been rent from him and lost, and how vainly he continued to bewail her, and disregard the
loving lament of Daphne, who had ever mourned and pined for him as she kept her flock, made
the rivulets, the brooks, the mountains re-echo with her sighs and plaints, and had wandered
through the hills and valleys, gathering simples wherewith she had compounded a balsam that
might do away with the scars that the claws of the lions had left, so that he might again appear
with the glowing cheeks and radiant locks that had excited the envy of the god of day.

Berenger burst out laughing over the practical part of this poetical performance, and laughed
the more at Philip's hurt, injured air at his mirth. Philip, who would have been the first
to see the absurdity in any other Daphne, thought this a passing pleasant device, and considered
it very unkind in his brother not even to make experiment of the balsam of simples, but to
declare that he had much rather keep his scars for Eustacie's sake than wear a smooth face
to please Diane.

Still Berenger's natural courtesy stood in his way. He could not help being respectful and
attentive to the old Chevalier, when their terms were, apparently at least, those of host and
guest; and to a lady he COULD not be rude and repellant, though he could be reserved. So, when
the kinsfolk met, no stranger would have discovered that one was a prisoner and the others
his captors.

One August day, when Madame de Selinville and her lady attendants were supping at the castle
at the early hour of six, a servant brought in word that an Italian pedlar craved leave to
display his wares. He was welcome, both for need's sake and for amusement, and was readily
admitted. Berenger, while supplying the defects of his scanty traveling wardrobe, was trying
to make out whether he had seen the man before, wondering if he were the same whom he had met
in the forest of Montipipeau, though a few differences in dress, hair, and beard made him somewhat
doubtful.

'Perfumes? Yes, lady, I have store of perfumes: ambergris and violet dew, and the Turkish essence
distilled from roses; yea, and the finest spirit of the Venus myrtle-tree, the secret known
to the Roman dames of old, whereby they secured perpetual beauty and love--though truly Madame
should need no such essence. That which nature has bestowed on her secures to her all hearts--and
one valued more than all.'

'Enough,' said Diane, blushing somewhat, though with an effort at laughing off his words; 'these
are the tricks of your trade.'

'Madame is incredulous; yet, lady, I have been in the East. Yonder boy comes from the land
where there are spells that make known the secrets of lives.'

The old Chevalier, who had hitherto been taken up with the abstruse calculation--derived from
his past days of economy--how much ribbon would be needed to retrim his murrey just-au-corps,
here began to lend an ear, though saying nothing. Philip looked on in open-eyed wonder, and
nudged his brother, who muttered in return, 'Jugglery!'

'Ah, the fair company are all slow to believe,' said the pedlar. 'Hola, Alessio!' and taking
a glove that Philip had left on the table, he held it to the boy. A few unintelligible words
passed between them; then the boy pointed direct to Philip, and waved his hand northwards.
'He says the gentleman who owns this glove comes from the North, from far away,' interpreted
the Italian; then as the boy made the gesture of walking in chains, 'that he is a captive.'

'Ay,' cried Philip, 'right, lad; and can he tell how long I shall be so?'

'Things yet to come,' said the mountebank, 'are only revealed after long preparation. For them
must he gaze into the dark poor of the future. The present and the past he can divine by the
mere touch of what has belonged to the person.'

'It is passing strange,' said Philip to Madame de Selinville. 'You credit it, Madame?'

'Ah, have we not seen the wonders come to pass that a like diviner fortold to the Queen-mother?'
said Diane: 'her sons should be all kings--that was told her when the eldest was yet Dauphin.'

'And there is only one yet to come,' said Philip, awe-struck. 'But see, what has he now?'

'Veronique's kerchief,' returned Madame de Selinville, as the Italian began to interpret the
boy's gesture.

'Pretty maidens, he says, serve fair ladies--bear tokens for them. This damsel has once been
the bearer of a bouquet of heather of the pink and white, whose bells were to ring hope.'

'Eh, eh, Madame, it is true?' cried Veronique, crimson with surprise and alarm. 'M. le Baron
knows it is true.'

Berenger had started at this revelation, and uttered an inarticulate exclamation; but at that
moment the boy, in whose hand his master had placed a crown from the money newly paid, began
to make vehement gestures, which the main interpreted. 'Le Balafre, he says, pardon me, gentlemen,
le Balafre could reveal even a deeper scar of the heart than of the visage'--and the boy's
brown hand was pressed on his heart--'yet truly there is yet hope (esperance) to be found.
Yes'--as the boy put his hand to his neck--'he bears a pearl, parted from its sister pearls.
Where they are, there is hope. Who can miss Hope, who has sought it at a royal death-bed?'

'Ah, where is it?' Berenger could not help exclaiming.

'Sir,' said the pedlar, 'as I told Messieurs and Mesdames before, the spirits that cast the
lights of the future on the dark pool need invocation. Ere he can answer M. le Baron's demands,
he and I must have time and seclusion. If Monsieur le Chevalier will grant us an empty room,
there will we answer all queries on which the spirits will throw light.'

'And how am I to know that you will not bring the devil to shatter the castle, my friend?'
demanded the Chevalier. 'Or more likely still, that you are not laughing all the time at these
credulous boys and ladies?'

'Of that, sir, you may here convince yourself,' said the mountebank, putting into his hand
a sort of credential in Italian, signed by Renato di Milano, the Queen's perfumer, testifying
to the skill of his compatriot Ercole Stizzito both in perfumery, cosmetics, and in the secrets
of occult sciences.

The Chevalier was no Italian scholar, and his daughter interpreted the scroll to him, in a
rapid low voice, adding, 'I have had many dealings with Rene of Milan, father. I know he speaks
sooth. There can be no harm in letting the poor man play out his play--all the castle servants
will be frantic to have their fortunes told.'

'I must speak with the fellow first, daughter,' said the Chevalier. 'He must satisfy me that
he has no unlawful dealings that could bring the Church down on us.' And he looked meaningly
at the mountebank, who replied by a whole muster-roll of ecclesiastics, male and female, who
had heard and approved his predictions.

'A few more words with thee, fellow,' said the Chevalier, pointing the way to one of the rooms
opening out of the hall. 'As master of the house I must be convinced of his honesty,' he added.
'If I am satisfied, then who will may seek to hear their fortune.'

Chevalier, man and boy disappeared, and Philip was the first to exclaim, 'A strange fellow!
What will he tell us? Madame, shall you hear him?'

'That depends on my father's report,' she said. 'And yet,' sadly and pensively, 'my future
is dark and void enough. Why should I vex myself with hearing it?'

'Nay, it may brighten,' said Philip.

'Scarcely, while hearts are hard,' she murmured with a slight shake of the head, that Philip
thought indescribably touching; but Berenger was gathering his purchases together, and did
not see. 'And you, brother,' said Philip, 'you mean to prove him?'

'No,' said Berenger. 'Have you forgotten, Phil, the anger we met with, when we dealt with the
gipsy at Hurst Fair?'

'Pshaw, Berry, we are past flogging now.'

'Out of reach, Phil, of the rod, but scarce of the teaching it struck into us.'

'What?' said Philip, sulkily.

'That divining is either cozening manor forsaking God, Phil. Either it is falsehood, or it
is a lying wonder of the devil.'

'But, Berry, this man is not cheat.'

'Then he is worse.'

'Only, turn not away, brother. How should he have known things that even I know not?--the heather.'

'No marvel in that,' said Berenger. 'This is the very man I bought Annora's fan from; he was
prowling round Montpipeau, and my heather was given to Veronique with little secrecy. And as
to the royal deathbed, it was Rene, his master, who met me there.'

'Then you think it mere cozeing? If so, we should find it out.'

'I don't reckon myself keener than an accomplished Italian mountebank,' said Berenger, dryly.

Further conference was cut short by the return of the Chevalier, saying, in his paternal genial
way, 'Well, children, I have examined the fellow and his credentials, and for those who have
enough youth and hope to care to have the future made known to them, bah! it is well.'

'Is it sorcery, sir?' asked Philip, anxiously.

The Chevalier shrugged his shoulders. 'What know I?' he said. 'For those who have a fine nose
for brimstone there may be, but he assures me it is but the white magic practiced in Egypt,
and the boy is Christian!'

'Did you try this secret, father?' inquired Madame de Selinville.

'I, my daughter? An old man's fortune is in his children. What have I to ask?'

'I--I scarcely like to be the first!' said the lady, eager but hesitating. 'Veronique, you
would have your fortune told?'

'I will be the first,' said Philip, stepping forward manfully. 'I will prove him for you, lady,
and tell you whether he be a cozener or not, or if his magic be fit for you to deal with.'

And confident in the inherent intuition of a plain Englishman, as well as satisfied to exercise
his resolution for once in opposition to Berenger's opinion, Master Thistlewood stepped towards
the closet where the Italian awaited his clients, and Berenger knew that it would be worse
than useless to endeavour to withhold him. He only chafed at the smile which passed between
father and daughter at this doughty self-assertion.

There was a long silence. Berenger sat with his eyes fixed on the window where the twilight
horizon was still soft and bright with the pearly gold of the late sunset, thinking with an
intensity of yearning what it would be could he truly become certain of Eustacie's present
doings; questioning whether he would try to satisfy that longing by the doubtful auguries of
the diviner, and then recollecting how he had heard from wrecked sailors that to seek to delude
their thirst with sea-water did but aggravate their misery. He knew that whatever he might
hear would be unworthy of confidence. Either it merely framed to soothe and please him--or,
were it a genuine oracle, he had no faith in the instinct that was to perceive it, but what
he HAD faith in was the Divine protection over his lost ones. 'No,' he thought to himself,
'I will not by a presumptuous sin, in my own impatience, risk incurring woes on them that deal
with familiar spirits and wizards that peep and mutter. If ever I am to hear of Eustacie again,
it shall be by God's will, not the devil's.'

Diane de Selinville had been watching his face all the time, and now said, with that almost
timid air of gaiety that she wore when addressing him: 'You too, cousin, are awaiting Monsieur
Philippe's report to decide whether to look into the pool of mystery.'

'Not at all, Madame,' said Berenger, gravely. 'I do not understand white magic.'

'Our good cousin has been too well bred among the Reformers to condescend to our little wickednesses,
daughter,' said the Chevalier; and the sneer-much like that which would await a person now
who scrupled at joining in table-turning or any form of spiritualism--purpled Berenger's scar,
now his only manner of blushing; but he instantly perceived that it was the Chevalier's desire
that he should consult the conjurer, and therefore became the more resolved against running
into a trap.

'I am sure,' said Madame de Selinville, earnestly, though with an affectation of lightness,
'a little wickedness is fair when there is a great deal at stake. For my part, I would not
hesitate long, to find out how soon the King will relent towards my fair cousin here!'

'That, Madame,' said Berenger, with the same grave dryness, 'is likely to be better known to
other persons than this wandering Greek boy.'

Here Philip's step was heard returning hastily. He was pale, and looked a good deal excited,
so that Madame de Selinville uttered a little cry, and exclaimed, 'Ah! is it so dreadful then?'

'No, no, Madame,' said Philip, turning round, with a fervour and confidence he had never before
shown. 'On my word, there is nothing formidable. You see nothing--nothing but the Italia and
the boy. The boy gazes into a vessel of some black liquid, and sees--sees there all you would
have revealed. Ah!'

'Then you believe?' asked Madame de Selinville.

'It cannot be false,' answered Philip; 'he told me everything. Things he could not have known.
My very home, my father's house, passed in review before that strange little blackamoor's eyes;
where I--though I would have given worlds to see it--beheld only the lamp mirrored in the dark
pool.'

'How do you know it was your father's house?' said Berenger.

'I could not doubt. Just to test the fellow, I bade him ask for my native place. The little
boy gazed, smiled, babbled his gibberish, pointed. The man said he spoke of a fair mansion
among green fields and hills, "a grand cavalier embonpoint,"--those were his very words,--at
the door, with a tankard in one hand. Ah! my dear father, why could not I see him too? But
who could mistake him or the Manor?'

'And did he speak of future as well as past?' said Diane.

'Yes, yes, yes,' said Philip, with more agitation. 'Lady, that will you know for yourself.'

'It was not dreadful?' she said, rising.

'Oh no!' and Philip had become crimson, and hesitated; 'certes, not dreadful. But---I must
not say more.'

'Save good night,' said Berenger, rising; 'See, our gendarmes are again looking as if we had
long exceeded their patience. It is an hour later than we are wont to retire.'

'If it be your desire to consult this mysterious fellow now you have heard your brother's report,
my dear Baron,' said the Chevalier, 'the gendarmes may devour their impatience a little longer.'

'Thanks, sir,' said Berenger; 'but I am not tempted,' and he gave the usual signal to the gendarmes,
who, during meals, used to stand as sentries at the great door of the hall.

'It might settle your mind,' muttered Philip, hesitating. 'And yet--yet---'

But he used no persuasions, and permitted himself to be escorted with his brother along the
passages to their own chamber, where he threw himself into a chair with a long sigh, and did
not speak. Berenger meantime opened the Bible, glanced over the few verses he meant to read,
found the place in the Prayer-book, and was going to the stairs to call Humfrey, when Philip
broke forth: 'Wait, Berry; don't be in such haste.'

'What, you want time to lose the taste of your dealings with the devil?' said Berenger, smiling.

'Pshaw! No devil in the matter,' testily said Philip. 'No, I was only wishing you had not had
a Puritan fit, and seen and heard for yourself. Then I should not have had to tell you,' and
he sighed.

'I have no desire to be told,' said Berenger, who had become more fixed in the conviction that
it was an imposture.

'No desire! Ah! I have none when I knew what it was. But you ought to know.'

'Well,' said Berenger, 'you will burst anon if I open not my ears.'

'Dear Berry, speak not thus. It will be the worse for you when you do hear. Alack, Berenger,
all ours have been vain hopes. I asked for HER--and the boy fell well-nigh into convulsions
of terror as he gazed; spoke of flames and falling houses. That was wherefore I pressed you
not again--it would have wrung your heart too much. The boy fairly wept and writhed himself,
crying out in his tongue for pity on the fair lady and the little babe in the burning house.
Alack! brother,' said Philip, a little hurt that his brother had not changed countenance.

'This is the lying tale of the man-at-arms which our own eyes contradicted,' said Berenger;
'and no doubt was likewise inspired by the Chevalier.'

'See the boy, brother! How should he have heard the Chevalier? Nay, you might hug your own
belief, but it is hard that we should both be in durance for your mere dream that she lives.'

'Come, Phil, it will be the devil indeed that sows dissension between us,' said Berenger. 'You
know well enough that were it indeed with my poor Eustacie as they would fain have us believe,
rather than give up her fair name I would not in prison for life. Or would you have me renounce
my faith, or wed Madame de Selinville upon the witness of a pool of ink that I am a widower?'
he added, almost laughing.

'For that matter,' muttered Philip, a good deal ashamed and half affronted, 'you know I value
the Protestant faith so that I never heard a word from the will old priest. Nevertheless, the
boy, when I asked of our release, saw the gates set open by Love.'

'What did Love look like in the pool? Had he wings like the Cupids in the ballets at the Louvre?'
asked Berenger provokingly.

'I tell you I saw nothing,' said Philip, tartly: 'this was the Italian's interpretation of
the boy's gesture. It was to be by means of love, he said, and of a lady who---he made it plain
enough who she was,' added the boy, colouring.

'No doubt, as the Chevalier have instructed him to say that I--I--' he hesitated, 'that my--my
love--I mean that he saw my shield per pale with the field fretty and the sable leopard.'

'Oh! it is to be my daughter, is it?' said Berenger, laughing; 'I am very happy to entertain
your proposals for her.'

'Berenger, what mocking fiend has possessed you?' cried Philip, half angrily, half pitifully.
'How can you so speak of that poor child?'

'Because the more they try to force on me the story of her fate, the plainer it is to me that
they do not believe it. I shall find her yet, and then, Phil, you shall have the first chance.'

Philip growled.

'Well, Phil,' said his brother, good-humouredly, 'any way, till this Love comes that is to
let us out, don't let Moor or fiend come between us. Let me keep my credence for the honest
Bailli's daughters at Lucon; and remember I would give my life to free you, but I cannot give
away my faith.' Philip bent his head. He was of too stubborn a mould to express contrition
or affection, but he mused for five minutes, then called Humfrey, and at the last moment, as
the heavy tread came up-stairs, he turned round and said, 'You're in the right on't there,
Berry. Hap what hap, the foul fiend may carry off the conjurer before I murmur at you again!
Still I wish you had seen him. You would know 'tis sooth.'

While Berenger, in his prison chamber, with the lamplight beaming on his high white brow and
clear eye, stood before his two comrades in captivity, their true-hearted faces composed to
reverence, and as he read, 'I have hated them that hold of superstitious vanities, and my trust
hath been in the Lord. I will be glad and rejoice in Thy mercy, for Thou hast considered my
trouble and hast known my soul in adversities,' feeling that here was the oracle by which he
was willing to abide--Diane de Selinville was entering the cabinet where the secrets of the
future were to be unveiled.

There she stood--the beautiful court lady--her lace coif (of the Mary of Scotland type) well
framed the beautiful oval of her face, and set of the clear olive of her complexion, softened
by short jetty curls at the temples, and lighted splendid dark eyes, and by the smiles of a
perfect pair of lips. A transparent veil hung back over the ruff like frostwork-formed fairy
wings, and over the white silk bodice and sleeves laced with violet, and the violet skirt that
fell in ample folds on the ground; only, however, in the dim light revealing by an occasional
gleam that it was not black. It was a stately presence, yet withal there was a tremor, a quiver
of the downcast eyelids, and a trembling of the fair hand, as though she were ill at ease;
even though it was by no means the first time she had trafficked with the dealers in mysterious
arts who swarmed around Catherine de Medicis. There were words lately uttered that weighed
with her in their simplicity, and she could not forget them in that gloomy light, as she gazed
on the brown face of the Italian, Ercole, faultless in outline as a classical mask, but the
black depths of the eyes sparkling with intensity of observation, as if they were everywhere
at once and gazed through and through. He wore his national dress, with the short cloak over
one shoulder; but the little boy, who stood at the table, had been fantastically arrayed in
a sort of semi-Albanian garb, a red cap with a long tassel, a dark, gold-embroidered velvet
jacket sitting close to his body, and a white kilt over his legs, bare except for buskins stiff
with gold. The poor little fellow looked pale in spite of his tawny hue, his enormous black
eyes were heavy and weary, and he seemed to be trying to keep aloof from the small brazen vessel
formed by the coils of two serpents that held the inky liquid of which Philip had spoken.

No doubt of the veritable nature of the charm crossed Diane; her doubt was of its lawfulness,
her dread of the supernatural region she was invading. She hesitated before she ventured on
her first question, and started as the Italian first spoke,--'What would the Eccelentissima?
Ladies often hesitate to speak the question nearest their hearts. Yet is it ever the same.
But the lady must be pleased to form it herself in words, or the lad will not see her vision.'

'Where, then, is my brother?' said Diane, still reluctant to come direct to the point.

The boy gazed intently into the black pool, his great eyes dilating till they seemed like black
wells, and after a long time, that Diane could have counted by the throbs of her heart, he
began to close his fingers, perform the action over the other arm of one playing on the lute,
throw his head back, close his eyes, and appear to be singing a lullaby. Then he spoke a few
words to his master quickly.

'He see,' said Ercole, 'a gentleman touching the lute, seated in a bedroom, where lies, on
a rich pillow, another gentleman,'--and as the boy stroked his face, and pointed to his hands--'wearing
a mask and gloves. It is, he says, in my own land, in Italy,' and as the boy made the action
of rowing, 'in the territory of Venice.'

'It is well,' said Madame de Selinville, who knew that nothing was more probable than that
her brother should be playing the King to his sleep in the medicated mask and gloves that cherished
the royal complexion, and, moreover, that Henry was lingering to take his pastime in Italy
to the great inconvenience of his kingdom.

Her next question came nearer her heat--'You saw the gentleman with a scar. Will he leave this
castle?'

The boy gazed, then made gestures of throwing his arms wide, and of passing out; and as he
added his few words, the master explained: 'He sees the gentleman leaving the castle, through
open gate, in full day, on horseback; and--and it is Madame who is with them,' he added, as
the lad pointed decidedly to her, 'it is Madame who opens their prison.'

Diane's face lighted with gladness for a moment; then she said, faltering (most women of her
day would not have been even thus reserved), 'Then I shall marry again?'

The boy gazed and knitted his brow; then, without any pantomime, looked up and spoke. 'The
Eccellentissima shall be a bride once more, he says,' explained the man, 'but after a sort
he cannot understand. It is exhausting, lady, thus to gaze into the invisible future; the boy
becomes confused and exhausted ere long.'

'Once more--I will only ask of the past. My cousin, is he married or a widower?'

The boy clasped his hands and looked imploringly, shaking his head at the dark pool, as he
murmured an entreating word to his master. 'Ah! Madame,' said the Italian, 'that question hath
already been demanded by the young Inglese. The poor child has been so terrified by the scene
it called up, that he implored he may not see it again. A sacked and burning town, a lady in
a flaming house---'

'Enough, enough,' said de; 'I could as little bear to hear as he to see. It is what we have
ever known and feared. And now'--she blushed as she spoke--'sir, you will leave me one of those
potions that Signor Renato is wont to compound.'

'Capisco!' said Ercole; 'but the Eccellentissima shall be obeyed if she will supply the means,
for the expense will be heavy.'

The bargain was agreed upon, and a considerable sum advanced for a philter, compounded of strange
Eastern plants and mystic jewels; and then Diane, with a shudder of relief, passed into the
full light of the hall, bade her father good night, and was handed by him into the litter that
had long been awaiting her at the door.

The Chevalier, then, with care on his brow, bent his steps towards the apartment where the
Italian still remained counting the money he had received.

'So!' he said as he entered, 'so, fellow, I have not hindered your gains, and you have been
true to your agreement?'

'Illustrissimo, yes. The pool of vision mirrored the flames, but nothing beyond--nothing--nothing.'

'They asked you then no more of those words you threw out of Esperance?'

'Only the English youth, sir; and there were plenty of other hopes to dance before the eyes
of such a lad! With M. le Baron it will be needful to be more guarded.'

'M. le Baron shall not have the opportunity,' said the Chevalier. 'He may abide by his decision,
and what the younger one may tell him. Fear not, good man, it shall be made good to you, if
you obey my commands. I have other work for you. But first repeat to me more fully what you
told me before. Where was it that you saw this unhappy girl under the name of Esperance?'

'At a hostel, sir, at Charente, where she was attending on an old heretic teacher of the name
of Gardon, who had fallen sick there, being pinched by the fiend with rheumatic pains after
his deserts. She bore the name of Esperance Gardon, and passed for his son's widow.'

'And by what means did you know her not to be the mean creature she pretended?' said the Chevalier,
with a gesture of scornful horror.

'Illustrissimo, I never forget a face. I had seen this lady with M. le Baron when they made
purchases of various trinkets at Montpipeau; and I saw her full again. I had the honour to
purchase from her certain jewels, that the Eccellenza will probably redeem; and even--pardon,
sir--I cut off and bought of her, her hair.'

'Her hair!' exclaimed the Chevalier, in horror. 'The miserable girl to have fallen so low!
Is it with you, fellow?'

'Surely, Illustrissimo. Such tresses--so shining, so silky, so well kept,--I reserved to adorn
the heads of Signor Renato's most princely customers', said the man, unpacking from the inmost
recesses of one of his most ingeniously arranged packages, a parcel which contained the rich
mass of beautiful black tresses. 'Ah! her head looked so noble,' he added, 'that I felt it
profane to let my scissors touch those locks; but she said that she could never wear them openly
more, and that they did but take up her time, and were useless to her child and her father--as
she called him; and she much needed the medicaments for the old man that I gave her in exchange.'

'Heavens! A daughter of Ribaumont!' sighed the Chevalier, clenching his hand. 'And now, man,
let me see the jewels with which the besotted child parted.'

The jewels were not many, nor remarkable. No one but a member of the family would have identified
them, and not one of the pearls was there; and the Chevalier refrained from inquiring after
them, lest, by putting the Italian on the scent of anything so exceptionally valuable, he should
defeat his own object, and lead to the man's securing the pearls and running away with them.
But Ercole understood his glance, with the quickness of a man whose trade forced him to read
countenances. 'The Eccellenza is looking for the pearls of Ribaumont? The lady made no offer
of them to me.'

'Do you believe that she has them still?'

'I am certain of it, sir. I know that she has jewels--though she said not what they were--which
she preserved at the expense of her hair. It was thus. The old man had, it seems, been for
weeks on the rack with pains caught by a chill when they fled from La Sablerie, and, though
the fever had left him, he was still so stiff in the joints as to be unable to move. I prescribed
for him unguents of balm and Indian spice, which, as the Eccellenza knows, are worth far more
than their weight in gold; nor did these jewels make up the cost of these, together with the
warm cloak for him, and the linen for her child that she had been purchasing. I tell you, sir,
the babe must have no linen but the finest fabric of Cambrai--yes, and even carnation-coloured
ribbons--though, for herself, I saw the homespun she was sewing. As she mused over what she
could throw back, I asked if she had no other gauds to make up the price, and she said, almost
within herself, "They are my child's, not mine." Then remembering that I had been buying the
hair of the peasant maidens, she suddenly offered me her tresses. But I could yet secure the
pearls, if Eccellenza would.'

'Do you then believe her to be in any positive want or distress?' said the Chevalier.

'Signor, no. The heretical households among whom she travels gladly support the families of
their teachers, and at Catholic inns they pay their way. I understood them to be on their way
to a synod of Satan at the nest of heretics, Montauban, where doubtless the old miscreant would
obtain an appointment to some village.'

'When did you thus full in with them?'

'It was on one of the days of the week of Pentecost,' said Ercole. 'It is at that time I frequent
fairs in those parts, to gather my little harvest on the maidens' heads.'

'Parbleu! class not my niece with those sordid beings, man,' said the Chevalier, angrily. 'Here
is your price'--tossing a heavy purse on the table--'and as much more shall await you when
you bring me sure intelligence where to find my niece. You understand; and mark, not one word
of the gentleman you saw here. You say she believes him dead?'

'The Illustrissimo must remember that she never dropped her disguise with me, but I fully think
that she supposed herself a widow. And I understand the Eccellenza, she is still to think so.
I may be depended on.'

'You understand,' repeated the Chevalier, 'this sum shall reward you when you have informed
me where to find her--as a man like you can easily trace her from Montauban. If you have any
traffickings with her, it shall be made worth your while to secure the pearls for the family;
but, remember, the first object is herself, and that she should be ignorant of the existence
of him whom she fancied her husband.'

'I see, Signor; and not a word, of course, of my having come from you. I will discover her,
and leave her noble family to deal with her. Has the Illustrissimo any further commands?'

'None,' began the Chevalier; then, suddenly, 'This unhappy infant--is it healthy? Did it need
any of your treatment?'

'Signor, no. It was a fair, healthy bambina of a year old, and I heard the mother boasting
that it had never had a day's illness.'

'Ah, the less a child has to do in the world, the more is it bent on living,' said the Chevalier
with a sigh; and then, with a parting greeting, he dismissed the Italian, but only to sup under
the careful surveillance of the steward, and then to be conveyed by early morning light beyond
the territory where the affairs of Ribaumont were interesting.

But the Chevalier went through a sleepless night. Long did he pace up and down his chamber,
grind his teeth, clench his fist and point them at his head, and make gestures of tearing his
thin gray locks; and many a military oath did he swear under his breath as he thought to what
a pass things had come. His brother's daughter waiting on an old Huguenot bourgeois, making
sugar-cakes, selling her hair! And what next? Here was she alive after all, alive and disgracing
herself; alive--yes, both she and her husband--to perplex the Chevalier, and force him either
to new crimes or to beggar his son! Why could not the one have really died on the St. Bartholomew,
or the other at La Sablerie, instead of putting the poor Chevalier in the wrong by coming to
live again?

What had he done to be thus forced to peril his soul at his age? Ah, had he but known what
he should bring on himself when he wrote the unlucky letter, pretending that the silly little
child wished to dissolve the marriage! How should he have known that the lad would come meddling
over? And then, when he had dexterously brought about that each should be offended with the
other, and consent to the separation, why must royalty step in and throw them together again?
Yes, and he surely had a right to feel ill-used, since it was in ignorance of the ratification
of the marriage that he had arranged the frustration of the elopement, and that he had forced
on the wedding with Narcisse, so as to drive Eustacie to flight from the convent--in ignorance
again of her life that he had imprisoned Berenger, and tried to buy off his clams to Nid de
Merle with Diane's hand. Circumstances had used him cruelly, and he shrank from fairly contemplating
the next step.

He knew well enough what it must be. Without loss of time a letter must be sent to Rome, backed
by strong interest, so as to make it appear that the ceremony at Montpipeau, irregular, and
between a Huguenot and Catholic, had been a defiance of the Papal decree, and must therefore
be nullified. This would probably be attainable, though he did not feel absolutely secure of
it. Pending this, Eustacie must be secluded in a convent; and, while still believing herself
a widow, must immediately on the arrival of the decree and dispensation, be forced into the
marriage with Narcisse before she heard of Berenger's being still alive. And then Berenger
would have no longer any excuse for holding out. His claims would be disposed of, and he might
be either sent to England, or he might be won upon by Madame de Selinville's constancy.

And this, as the Chevalier believed, was the only chance of saving a life that he was unwilling
to sacrifice, for his captive's patience and courtesy had gained so much upon his heart that
he was resolved to do all that shuffling and temporizing could do to save the lad from Narcisse's
hatred and to secure him Diane's love.

As to telling the truth and arranging his escape, that scarcely ever crossed the old man's
mind. It would have been to resign the lands of Nid de Merle, to return to the makeshift life
he knew but too well, and, what was worse, to ruin and degrade his son, and incur his resentment.
It would probably be easy to obtain a promise from Berenger, in his first joy and gratitude,
of yielding up all pretensions of his own or his wife's; but, however honourably meant, such
a promise would be worth very little, and would be utterly scorned by Narcisse. Besides, how
could he thwart the love of his daughter and the ambition of his son both at once?

No; the only security for the possession of Nid de Merle lay in either the death of the young
baron and his child or else in his acquiescence in the invalidity of his marriage, and therefore
in the illegitimacy of the child.

And it was within the bounds of possibility that, in his seclusion, he might at length learn
to believe in the story of the destruction at La Sablerie, and, wearying of captivity, might
yield at length to the persuasions of Diane and her father, and become so far involved with
them as to be unable to draw back, or else be so stung by Eustacie's desertion as to accept
her rival willingly.

It was a forlorn hope, but it was the only medium that lay between either the death or the
release of the captive; and therefore the old man clung to it as almost praiseworthy, and did
his best to bring it about by keeping his daughter ignorant that Eustacie lived, and writing
to his son that the Baron was on the point of becoming a Catholic and marrying his sister:
and thus that all family danger and scandal would be avoided, provided the matter were properly
represented at Rome.

CHAPTER XXXII. 'JAM SATIS'

     You may go walk, and give me leave a while,
     My lessons make no music in three parts.
                      TAMING OF THE SHREW

Whether the dark pool really showed Sir Marmaduke Thistlewood or not, at the moment that his
son desired that his image should be called up, the good knight was, in effect, sitting nodding
over the tankard of sack with which his supper was always concluded, while the rest of the
family, lured out of the sunny hall by the charms of a fresh summer evening, had dispersed
into the gardens or hall.

Presently a movement in the neighbourhood made him think it incumbent on him to open his eyes
wide, and exclaim, 'I'm not asleep.'

'Oh no! you never are asleep when there's anything you ought to see!' returned Dame Annora,
who was standing by him with her hand on his chair.

'How now? Any tidings of the lads?' he exclaimed.

'Of the lads? No, indeed; but there will be bad tidings for the lads if you do not see to it!
Where do you think your daughter is, Sir Duke?'

'Where? How should I know? She went out to give her sisters some strawberries, I thought.'

'See here,' said Lady Thistlewood, leading the way to the north end of the hall, where a door
opened into what was called the Yew-tree Grove. This consisted of five rows of yew-trees, planted
at regular intervals, and their natural mode of growth so interfered with by constant cutting,
that their ruddy trunks had been obliged to rise branchless, till about twelve feet above ground
they had been allowed to spread out their limbs in the form of ordinary forest trees; and,
altogether, their foliage became a thick, unbroken, dark, evergreen roof, impervious to sunshine,
and almost impervious to rain, while below their trunks were like columns forming five arcades,
floored only by that dark red crusty earth and green lichen growth that seems peculiar to the
shelter of yew-trees. The depth of the shade and the stillness of the place made it something
peculiarly soothing and quiet, more especially when, as now, the sunset light came below the
branches, richly tinted the russet pillars, cast long shadows, and gleamed into all the recesses
of the interlacing boughs and polished leafage above.

'Do you see, Sir Duke?' demanded his lady.

'I see my little maids making a rare feast under the trees upon their strawberries set out
on leaves. Bless their little hearts! what a pretty fairy feast they've made of it, with the
dogs looking on as grave as judges! It takes me young again to get a smack of the haut-bois
your mother brought from Chelsea Gardens.'

'Haut-bois! He'd never see if the house ere afire overhead. What's that beyond?'

'No fire, my dear, but the sky all aglow with sunset, and the red cow standing up against the
light, chewing her cud, and looking as well pleased as though she knew there wasn't her match
in Dorset.'

Lady Thistlewood fairly stamped, and pointed with her fan, like a pistol, down a side aisle
of the grove, where two figures were slowly moving along.

'Eh! what? Lucy with her apron full of rose-leaves, letting them float away while she cons
the children's lesson for the morrow with Merrycourt? They be no great loss, when the place
is full of roses. Or why could you not call to the wench to take better heed of them, instead
of making all this pother?'

'A pretty sort of lesson it is like to be! A pretty sort of return for my poor son, unless
you take the better heed!'

'Would that I saw any return at all for either of the poor dear lads,' sighed the knight wearily;
'but what you may be driving at I cannot perceive.'

'What! When 'tis before your very eyes, how yonder smooth-tongued French impostor, after luring
him back to his ruin beyond seas, is supplanting him even here, and your daughter giving herself
over to the wily viper!'

'The man is a popish priest,' said Sir Marmaduke; 'no more given to love than Mr. Adderley
or Friar Rogers.'

The dame gave a snort of derision:' Prithee, how many popish priests be now wedded parsons?
Nor, indeed, even if his story be true, do I believe he is a priest at all. I have seen many
a young abbe, as they call themselves, clerk only in name, loitering at court, free to throw
off the cassock any moment they chose, and as insolent as the rest. Why, the Abbe de Lorraine,
cardinal that is now, said of my complexion---'

'No vows, quotha!' muttered Sir Marmaduke, well aware of the Cardinal de Lorraine's opinion
of his lady's complexion. 'So much the better; he is too good a young fellow to be forced to
mope single, and yet I hate men's breaking their word.'

'And that's all you have to say!' angrily cried her ladyship. 'No one save myself ever thinks
how it is to be with my poor dear wounded, heart-broken son, when he comes home, to find himself
so scurvily used by that faithless girl of yours, ready---'

'Hold, madam,' said Sir Marmaduke, with real sternness; 'nothing rash against my daughter.
How should she be faithless to a man who has been wedded ever since she knew him?'

'He is free now,' said Lady Thistlewood, beginning to cry (for the last letters received from
Berenger had been those from Paris, while he still believed Eustacie to have perished at La
Sablerie); 'and I do say it is very hard that just when he is rid of the French baggage, the
bane of his life, and is coming home, maybe with a child upon his hands, and all wounded, scarred,
and blurred, the only wench he would or should have married should throw herself away on a
French vagabond beggar, and you aiding and abetting.'

'Come, come, Dame Nan,' said Sir Marmaduke, 'who told you I was aiding and abetting?'

'Tell me not, Sir Duke, you that see them a courting under your very eyes, and will not stir
a finger to hinder it. If you like to see your daughter take up with a foreign adventurer,
why, she's no child of mine, thank Heaven! And I've nought to do with it.'

'Pshaw, dame, there's no taking up in the case; and if there were, sure it is not you that
should be hard on Lucy.'

Whereupon Annora fell into such a flood of tears at the cruelty of casting such things up to
her, that Sir Marmaduke was fain in his blundering way to declare that he only meant that an
honest Englishman had no chance where a Frenchman once came in, and then very nearly to surrender
at discretion. At any rate, he escaped from her tears by going out at the door, and calling
to Lucy to mind her rose-leaves; then, as she gazed round, dismayed at the pink track along
the ground, he asked her what she had been doing. Whereto she answered with bright face and
honest eyes, that Mr. Mericour had been going over with her the ode 'Jam satis,' of Horatius,
wherewith to prepare little Nan for him to-morrow, and then she ran hurriedly away to secure
the remainder of the rose-leaves, while her companion was already on his knees picking up the
petals she had dropped.

'Master Merrycourt,' said Sir Marmaduke, a little gruffly, 'never heed the flower-leaves. I
want a word with you.'

Claude de Mericour rose hastily, as if somewhat struck by the tone.

'The matter is this,' said the knight, leading him from the house, and signing back the little
girls who had sprung towards them--'it has been brought to my mind that you are but a youth,
and, pardon me, my young master, but when lads and lasses have their heads together over one
book, tongues wag.'

The colour rushed hotly into young Mericour's face, and he answered quickly, 'My rank--I mean
my order--should answer that.'

'Stay, young man, we are not in France; your order, be it what it may, has not hindered many
a marriage in England; though, look you, no man should ever wed with my consent who broke his
word to God in so doing; but they tell me your vows are not always made at your age.'

'Nor are they,' exclaimed Mericour, in a low voice, but with a sudden light on his countenance.
'The tonsure was given me as a child, but no vow of celibacy has passed my lips.'

Sir Marmaduke exclaimed, 'Oh!--' with a prolongation of the sound that lasted till Mericour
began again.

'But, sir, let tongues wag as they will, it is for nought. Your fair daughter was but as ever
preparing beforehand with me the tasks with which she so kindly indoctrinates her little sisters.
I never thought of myself as aught but a religious, and should never dream of human love.'

'I thought so! I said so!' said Sir Marmaduke, highly gratified. 'I knew you were an honourable
man that would never speak of love to my daughter by stealth, nor without means to maintain
her after her birth.'

The word 'birth' brought the blood into the face of the son of the peer of France, but he merely
bowed with considerable stiffness and pride, saying, 'You did me justice, sir.'

'Come, don't be hurt, man,' said Sir Marmaduke, putting his hand on his shoulder. 'I told you
I knew you for an honourable man! You'll be over here to-morrow to hear the little maids their
Jam satis, or whatever you call it, and dine with us after to taste Lucy's handiwork in jam
cranberry, a better thing as I take it.'

Mericour had recovered himself, smiled, shook the good Sir Marmaduke proffered hand, and, begging
to excuse himself from bidding good night to the ladies on the score of lateness, he walked
away to cross the downs on his return to Combe Walwyn, where he was still resident, according
to the arrangement by which he was there to await Berenger's return, now deferred so much beyond
all reasonable expectation.

Sir Marmaduke, with a free heart, betook himself to the house, dreading to find that Lucy had
fallen under the objurgations of her step-mother, but feeling impelled to stand her protector,
and guided to the spot by the high key of Dame Annora's voice.

He found Lucy--who, on the race occasions when good-natured Lady Thistlewood was really angry
with her, usually cowered meekly--now standing her ground, and while the dame was pausing for
breath, he heard her gentle voice answering steadily, 'No, madam, to him I could never owe
faith, nor troth, nor love, save such as I have for Philip.'

'Then it is very unfeeling and ungrateful of you. Nor did you think so once, but it is all
his scars and---'

By this time Sir Marmaduke had come near enough to put his arm round his daughter, and say,
'No such thing, dame. It had been unseemly in the lass had it been otherwise. She is a good
girl and a discreet; and the Frenchman, if he has made none of their vows, feels as bound as
though he had. He's an honest fellow, thinking of his studies and not of ladies or any such
trumpery. So give me a kiss, Lucy girl, and thou shalt study Jam satis, or any other jam he
pleases, without more to vex thee.'

Lucy, now that the warfare was over, had begun to weep so profusely that so soon as her father
released her, she turned, made a mute gesture to ask permission to depart, and hurried away;
while Lady Thistlewood, who disliked above all that her husband should think her harsh to her
step-children, began to relate the exceeding tenderness of the remonstrance which had been
followed with such disproportionate floods of tears.

Poor Sir Marmaduke hoped at least that the veil of night had put an end to the subject which
harassed him at a time when he felt less capable than usual of bearing vexation, for he was
yearning sadly after his only son. The youths had been absent ten months, and had not been
heard of for more than three, when they were just leaving Paris in search of the infant. Sir
Francis Walsingham, whose embassy had ended with the death of Charles IX., knew nothing of
them, and great apprehensions respecting them were beginning to prevail, and, to Sir Marmaduke
especially, seemed to be eating out the peace and joy of his life. Philip, always at his father's
side ever since he could run alone, was missed at every visit to stable or kennel; the ring
of his cheery voice was wanting to the house; and the absence of his merry whistle seemed to
make Sir Marmaduke's heart sink like lead as he donned his heavy boots, and went forth in the
silver dew of the summer morning to judge which of his cornfields would soonest be ready for
the sickle. Until this expedition of his sons he had, for more than fourteen years never been
alone in those morning rounds on his farm; and much as he loved his daughters, they seemed
to weigh very light in the scale compared with the sturdy heir who loved every acre with his
own ancestral love. Indeed, perhaps, Sir Marmaduke had deeper, fonder affection for the children
of his first marriage, because he had barely been able to give his full heart to their mother
before she was taken from him, and he had felt almost double tenderness to be due to them,
when he at length obtained his first and only true love. Now, as he looked over the shinning
billows of the waving barley, his heart was very sore with longing for Philip's gladsome shout
at the harvest-field, and he thought with surprise and compunction how he had seen Lucy leave
him struggling with a flood of tears. While he was still thus gazing, a head appeared in the
narrow path that led across the fields, and presently he recognized the slender, upright form
of the young Frenchman.

'A fair good morrow to you, Master Merrycourt! You come right early to look after your ode?'

'Sir,' said Mericour, gravely saluting him, 'I come to make you my confession. I find that
I did not deal truly with you last night, but it was all unwittingly.'

'How?' exclaimed Sir Marmaduke, recollecting Lucy's tears and looking much startled. 'You have
not---' and there he broke off, seeing Mericour eager to speak.

'Sir,' he said, 'I was bred as one set apart from love. I had never learnt to think it possible
to me,--I thought so even when I replied to you last evening; but, sir, the words you then
spoke, the question you asked me set my heart burning, and my senses whirling---' And between
agitation and confusion he stammered and clasped his hands passionately, trying to continue
what he was saying, but muttering nothing intelligible.

Sir Marmaduke filled up the interval with a long whistle of perplexity; but, too kind not to
pity the youth's distress, he laid his hand on his shoulder, saying, 'You found out you were
but a hot-blooded youth after all, but an honest one. For, as I well trust, my lass knows nought
of this.'

'How should she know, sir, what I knew not myself?'

'Ha! ha!' chuckled Sir Duke to himself, 'so 'twas all Dame Nan's doing that the flame has been
lighted! Ho! ho! But what is to come next is the question?' and he eyed the French youth from
head to foot with the same considering look with which he was wont to study a bullock.

'Sir, sir,' cried Mericour, absolutely flinging himself on his knee before him with national
vehemence, 'do give me hope! Oh! I will bless you, I will---'

'Get up, man,' said the knight, hastily; 'no fooling of this sort. The milkmaids will be coming.
Hope--why, what sort of hope can be given you in the matter?' he continued; 'you are a very
good lad, and I like you well enough, but you are not the sort of stuff one gives one's daughter
to. Ay, ay, I know you are a great man in your own country, but what are you here?'

'A miserable fugitive and beggar, I know that,' said Mericour, vehemently, 'but let me have
but hope, and there is nothing I will not be!'

'Pish!' said Sir Marmaduke.

'Hear me,' entreated the youth, recalled to common sense: 'you know that I have lingered at
the chateau yonder, partly to study divinity and settle my mind, and partly because my friend
Ribaumont begged me to await his return. I will be no longer idle; my mind is fixed. To France
I cannot return, while she gives me no choice between such doctrine and practice as I saw at
court, and such as the Huguenots would have imposed on me. I had already chosen England as
my country before--before this wild hope had awakened in me. Here, I know my nobility counts
for nothing, though, truly, sir, few names in France are prouder. But it shall be no hindrance.
I will become one of your men of the robe. I have heard that they can enrich themselves and
intermarry with your country noblesse.'

'True, true,' said Sir Marmaduke, 'there is more sense in that notion than there seemed to
be in you at first. My poor brother Phil was to have been a lawyer if he had lived, but it
seems to me you are a long way off from that yet! Why, our Templars be mostly Oxford scholars.'

'So it was explained to me,' said Mericour, 'but for some weeks past the Lady Burnet, to whose
sons, as you know, I have been teaching French, has been praying me to take the charge of them
at Oxford, by which means I should at least be there maintained, and perchance obtain the means
for carrying on my studies at the Temple.'

'Not ill thought of,' said the knight; 'a fair course enough for you; but look you, you must
have good luck indeed to be in a state to marry within ten or fifteen years,--very likely not
then--having nothing of your own, and my wench but little, for Lucy's portion cannot be made
equal to her sisters', her mother having been no heiress like Dame Nan. And would you have
me keep the maid unwedded till she be thirty or thirty-five years old, waiting for your fortune?'

Mericour looked terribly disconcerted at this.

'Moreover,' added the knight, 'they will all be at me, so soon as those poor lads come home--Heaven
grant they do--to give her to Berenger.'

'Sir,' said Mericour, looking up with a sudden smile, 'all that I would ask is, what you are
too good a father to do, that you would not put any force on her inclinations.'

'How now? you said you had never courted her!'

'Nor have I, sir. But I see the force of your words. Should she love another man, my dream
were, of course, utterly vain, but if not---' He broke off.

'Well, well, I am no man to force a girl to a match against her will; but never trust to that,
man. I know what women are; and let a fantastic stranger come across them, there's an end of
old friends. But yours is an honest purpose, and you are a good youth; and if you had anything
to keep her with, you should have Lucy to-morrow, with all my heart.'

Then came the further question whether Mericour should be allowed an interview with Lucy. Sir
Marmaduke was simple enough to fancy that she need not be made aware of the cause of Mericour's
new arrangement, and decided against it. The young man sorrowfully acquiesced, but whether
such a secret could be kept was another thing. To him it would have been impossible to renew
their former terms of intercourse without betraying his feelings, and he therefore absented
himself. Lady Thistlewood triumphed openly in Sir Marmaduke's having found him out and banished
him from the house; Lucy looked white and shed silent tears. Her father's soft heart was moved,
and one Sunday evening he whispered into her ear that Dame Nan was all wrong, and Mericour
only kept away because he was an honourable man. Then Lucy smiled and brightened, and Sir Duke
fondly asked her if she were fool enough to fancy herself in love with the man.

'Oh no, how should she, when he had never named love to her? She was only glad her father esteemed
him.'

So then foolish, fond Sir Marmaduke told her all that had passed, and if it had not been too
late, he would have sent for Mericour from Lady Burnet's; but his own story did almost as well
in bringing back Lucy's soft pink color. She crept up into Cecily's room one day, and found
that she knew all about it, and was as kind and sympathizing as she could be--when a vocation
had been given up, though no vows had been taken. She did not quite understand it, but she
would take it on trust.

CHAPTER XXXIII. THE SCANDAL OF THE SYNOD OF MONTAUBAN

     O ye, wha are sae guid yourself,
        Sae pious and sae holy,
     Ye've naught to do but mark and tell
        Your neebour's fauts and folly.
                        --BURNS

The old city of Montauban, once famous as the home of Ariosto's Rinaldo and his brethren, known
to French romance as 'Les Quatre Fils Aymon,' acquired in later times a very diverse species
of fame,--that, namely, of being one of the chief strong-holds of the Reformed. The Bishop
Jean de Lettes, after leading a scandalous life, had professed a sort of Calvinism, had married,
and retired to Geneva, and his successor had not found it possible to live at Montauban from
the enmity of the inhabitants. Strongly situated, with a peculiar municipal constitution of
its own, and used to Provencal independence both of thought and deed, the inhabitants had been
so unanimous in their Calvinism, and had offered such efficient resistance, as to have wrung
from Government reluctant sanction for the open observance of the Reformed worship, and for
the maintenance of a college for the education of their ministry.

There then was convoked the National Synod, answering to the Scottish General Assembly, excepting
that the persecuted French Presbyterians met in a different place every year. Delegated pastors
there gathered from every quarter. From Northern France came men used to live in constant hazard
of their lives; from Paris, confessors such as Merlin, the chaplain who, leaving Coligny's
bedside, had been hidden for three days in a hayloft, feeding on the eggs that a hen daily
laid beside him; army-chaplains were there who had passionately led battle-psalms ere their
colleagues charged the foe, and had striven with vain endeavours to render their soldiers saints;
while other pastors came from Pyrenean villages where their generation had never seen flames
lighted against heresy, nor knew what it was to disperse a congregation in haste and secrecy
for hear of the enemy.

The audience was large and sympathizing. Montauban had become the refuge of many Huguenot families
who could nowhere else profess their faith without constant danger; and a large proportion
of these were ladies, wives of gentlemen in the army kept up by La Noue, or widows who feared
that their children might be taken from them to be brought up by their Catholic relations,
elderly dames who longed for tranquillity after having lost husbands or sons by civil war.
Thickly they lodged in the strangely named gasches and vertiers, as the divisions and subdivisions
of the city were termed, occupying floors or apartments of the tall old houses; walking abroad
in the streets in grave attire, stiff hat, crimped ruff, and huge fan, and forming a society
in themselves, close-packed, punctilious and dignified, rigidly devout but strictly censorious,
and altogether as unlike their typical country folks of Paris as if they had belonged to a
different nation. And the sourest and most severe of all were such as had lived farthest south,
and personally suffered the least peril and alarm.

Dancing was unheard-of enormity; cards and dice were prohibited; and stronger expletive than
the elegant ones invented for the special use of the King of Navarre was expiated either by
the purse or the skin; Marot's psalmody was the only music, black or sad colour the only wear;
and, a few years later, the wife of one of the most distinguished statesmen and councilors
of Henri of Navarre was excommunicated for the enormity of wearing her hair curled.

To such a community it was a delightful festival to receive a national assembly of ministers
ready to regale them on daily sermons for a whole month, and to retail in private the points
of discipline debated in the public assembly; and, apart from mere eagerness for novelty, many
a discreet heart beat with gladness at the meeting with the hunted pastor of her native home,
who had been the first to strike the spiritual chord, and awake her mind to religion.

Every family had their honoured guest, every reception-room was in turn the scene of some pious
little assembly that drank eau sucree, and rejoiced in its favourite pastor; and each little
congress indulged in gentle scandal against its rival coterie. But there was one point on which
all the ladies agreed,--namely, that good Maitre Isaac Gardon had fallen into an almost doting
state of blindness to the vanities of his daughter-in-law, and that she was a disgrace to the
community, and ought to be publicly reprimanded.

Isaac Gardon, long reported to have been martyred--some said at Paris, others averred at La
Sablerie--had indeed been welcomed with enthusiastic joy and veneration, when he made his appearance
at Montauban, pale, aged, bent, leaning on a staff, and showing the dire effect of the rheumatic
fever which had prostrated him after the night of drenching and exposure during the escape
from La Sablerie. Crowded as the city was, there was a perfect competition among the tradesfolk
for the honour of entertaining him and the young widow and child of a St. Bartholomew martyr.
A cordwainer of the street of the Soubirous Hauts obtained this honour, and the wife, though
speaking only the sweet Provencal tongue, soon established the most friendly relations with
M. Gardon's daughter-in-law.

Two or three more pastors likewise lodged in the same house, and ready aid was given by Mademoiselle
Gardon, as all called Eustacie, in the domestic cares thus entailed, while her filial attention
to her father-in-law and her sweet tenderness to her child struck all this home circle with
admiration. Children of that age were seldom seen at home among the better classes in towns.
Then, as now, they were universally consigned to country nurses, who only brought them home
at three or four years old, fresh from a squalid, neglected cottage life: and Eustacie's little
moonbeam, la petite Rayonette, as she loved to call her, was quite an unusual spectacle; and
from having lived entirely with grown people, and enjoyed the most tender and dainty care,
she was intelligent and brightly docile to a degree that appeared marvellous to those who only
saw children stupefied by a contrary system. She was a lovely little thing, exquisitely fair,
and her plump white limbs small but perfectly moulded; she was always happy, because always
healthy, and living in an atmosphere of love; and she was the pet and wonder of all the household,
from the grinning apprentice to the grave young candidate who hoped to be elected pastor to
the Duke de Quinet's village in the Cevennes.

And yet it was la petite Rayonette who first brought her mother into trouble. Since her emancipation
from swaddling clothes she had been equipped in a little gray woolen frock, such as Eustacie
had learnt to knit among the peasants, and varied with broad while stripes which gave it something
of the moonbeam effect; but the mother had not been able to resist the pleasure of drawing
up the bosom and tying it with a knot of the very carnation colour that Berenger used to call
her own. That knot was discussed all up and down the Rue Soubirous Hauts, and even through
the Carriera Major! The widow of an old friend of Maitre Gardon had remonstrated on the improprieties
of such gay vanities, and Mdlle. Gardon had actually replied, reddening with insolences, that
her husband had loved to see her wear the colour.

Now, if the brethren at Paris had indulged their daughters in such backslidings, see what had
come of it! But that poor Theodore Gardon should have admired his bride in such unhallowed
adornments, was an evident calumny; and many a head was shaken over it in grave and pious assembly.

Worse still; when she had been invited to a supper at the excellent Madame Fargeau's, the presumptuous
little bourgeoise had evidently not known her place, but had seated herself as if she were
a noble lady, a fille de qualite, instead of a mere minister's widow and a watchmaker's daughter.
Pretend ignorance that precedence was to be here observed! That was another Parisian piece
of impudence, above all in one who showed such ridiculous airs as to wipe her face with her
own handkerchief instead of the table-cloth, and to be reluctant to help herself from the genera
dish of potage with her own spoon. Even that might have been overlooked if she would have regaled
them with a full and particular account of her own rescue from the massacre at Paris; but she
merely coloured up, and said that she had been so ill as to know scarcely anything about it;
and when they pressed her further, she shortly said, 'They locked me up;' and, before she could
be cross-examined as to who was this 'they,' Maitre Gardon interfered, saying that she had
suffered so much that he requested the subject might never be mentioned to her. Nor would he
be more explicit, and there was evidently some mystery, and he was becoming blindly indulgent
and besotted by the blandishments of an artful woman.

Eustacie was saved from hearing the gossip by her ignorance of the Provencal, which was the
only languages of all but the highest and most cultivated classes, the hostess had very little
langue d'oui, and never ventured on any complicated discourse; and Isaac Gardon, who could
speak both the oc and oui, was not a person whom it was easy to beset with mere hearsay or
petty remonstrance, but enough reached him at last to make him one day say mildly, 'My dear
child, might not the little one dispense with her ribbon while we are here?'

'Eh, father? At the bidding of those impertinents?'

'Take care, daughter; you were perfect with the tradesfolk and peasants, but you cannot comport
yourself as successfully with this petite noblesse, or the pastors' wives.'

'They are insolent, father. I, in my own true person, would treat no one as these petty dames
treat me,' said Eustacie. 'I would not meddle between a peasant woman and her child, nor ask
questions that must needs wring her heart.'

'Ah, child! humility is a bitter lesson; and even this world needs it now from you. We shall
have suspicions; and I heard to-day that the King is in Dauphiny, and with him M. de Nid de
Merle. Be not alarmed; he has no force with him, and the peace still subsists; but we must
avoid suspicion. There is a preche at the Moustier to-day, in French; it would be well if you
were to attend it.'

'I understand as little of French sermons as of Provencal,' murmured Eustacie; but it was only
a murmur.

Maitre Gardon had soon found out that his charge had not head enough to be made a thorough-going
controversial Calvinist. Clever, intelligent, and full of resources as she was, she had no
capacity for argument, and could not enter into theoretical religion. Circumstances had driven
her from her original Church and alienated her from those who had practiced such personal cruelties
on her and hers, but the mould of her mind remained what it had been previously; she clung
to the Huguenots because they protected her from those who would have forced an abhorrent marriage
on her and snatched her child from her; and, personally, she loved and venerated Isaac Gardon
with ardent, self-sacrificing filial love and gratitude, accepted as truth all that came from
his lips, read the Scriptures, sang and prayed with him, and obeyed him as dutifully as ever
the true Esperance could have done; but, except the merest external objections against the
grossest and most palpable popular corruptions and fallacies, she really never entered into
the matter. She had been left too ignorant of her own system to perceive its true clams upon
her; and though she could not help preferring High Mass to a Calvinist assembly, and shrinking
with instinctive pain and horror at the many profanations she witnessed, the really spiritual
leadings of her own individual father-like leader had opened so much that was new and precious
to her, so full of truth, so full of comfort, giving so much moral strength, that, unaware
that all the foundations had been laid by Mere Monique, the resolute, high-spirited little
thing, out of sheer constancy and constitutional courage, would have laid down her life as
a Calvinist martyr, in profound ignorance that she was not in the least a Calvinist all the time.

Hitherto, her wandering life amid the persecuted Huguenots of the West had prevented her from
hearing any preaching but good Isaac's own, which had been rather in the way of comfort and
encouragement than of controversy, but in this great gathering it was impossible that there
should not be plenty of vehement polemical oratory, such as was sue to fly over that weary
little head. After a specimen or two, the chances of the sermon being in Provencal, and the
necessity of attending to her child, had been Eustacie's excuse for usually offering to attend
to the menage, and set her hostess free to be present at the preachings.

However, Rayonette was considered as no valid excuse; for did not whole circles of black-eyed
children sit on the floor in sleepy stolidity at the feet of their mothers or nurses, and was
it not a mere worldly folly to pretend that a child of sixteen months could not be brought
to church? It was another instance of the mother's frivolity and the grandfather's idolatry.

The Moustier, or minster, the monastic church of Montauban, built on Mont Auriol in honour
of St. Theodore, had, twelve years before, been plundered and sacked by the Calvinists, not
only out of zeal for iconoclasm, but from long-standing hatred and jealousy against the monks.
Catherine de Medicis had, in 1546, carried off two of the jasper columns from its chief door-way
to the Louvre; and, after some years more, it was entirely destroyed. The grounds of the Auriol
Mountain Monastery have been desolate down to the present day, when they have been formed into
public gardens. When Eustacie walked through them, carrying her little girl in her arms, a
rose in her bosom to console her for the loss of her bright breast-knot, they were in raw fresh
dreariness, with tottering, blackened cloisters, garden flowers run wild, images that she had
never ceased to regard as sacred lying broken and defiled among the grass and weeds.

Up the broad path was pacing the municipal procession, headed by the three Consuls, each with
a serjeant bearing a white rod in front and a scarlet mantle, and the Consuls themselves in
long robes with wide sleeves of quartered black and scarlet, followed by six halberdiers, likewise
in scarlet, blazoned with the shield of the city--gules, a golden willow-tree, pollarded and
shedding its branches, a chief azure with the three fleur-de-lys of royalty. As little Rayonette
gleefully pointed at the brilliant pageant, Eustacie could not help saying, rather bitterly,
that these messieurs seemed to wish to engross all the gay colours from heaven and earth from
themselves; and Maitre Isaac could not help thinking she had some right on her side as he entered
the church once gorgeous with jasper, marbles, and mosaics, glowing with painted glass, resplendent
with gold and jewels, rich with paintings and draperies of the most brilliant dyes; but now,
all that was, soiled, dulled, defaced; the whole building, even up to the end of the chancel,
was closely fitted with benches occupied by the 'sad-coloured' congregation. Isaac was obliged
by a strenuous effort of memory to recall 'Ne-hushtan' and the golden calves, before he could
clear from his mind, 'Now they break down all the carved work thereof with axes and with hammers.'
But, then, did not the thorough going Reformers think Master Isaac a very weak and back-sliding
brother?

Nevertheless, in right of his age, his former reputation, and his sufferings, his place was
full in the midst of the square-capped, black-robed ministers who sat herded on a sort of platform
together, to address the Almighty and the congregation in prayers and discourses, interspersed
with psalms sung by the whole assembly. There was no want of piety, depth, force, or fervour.
These were men refined by persecution, who had struggled to the light that had been darkened
by the popular system, and, having once been forced into foregoing their scruples as to breaking
the unity of the Church, regarded themselves even as apostles of the truth. Listening to them,
Isaac Gardon felt himself rapt into the hopes of cleansing the aspirations of universal re-integration
that had shone before his early youth, ere the Church had shown herself deaf, and the Reformers
in losing patience had lost purity, and disappointment had crushed him into an aged man.

He was recalled by the echo of a gay, little inarticulate cry--those baby tones that had become
such music to his ears that he hardly realized that they were not indeed from his grandchild.
In a moment's glance he saw how it was. A little bird had flown in at one of the empty window,
and was fluttering over the heads of the congregation, and a small, plump, white arm and hand
was stretched out and pointing--a rosy, fair, smiling face upturned; a little gray figure had
scrambled up on the knee of one of the still, black-hooded women; and the shout of irrepressible
delight was breaking on the decorum of the congregation, in spite of hushes, in spite of the
uplifted rod of a scarlet serjeant on his way down the aisle to quell the disturbance; nay,
as the bird came nearer, the exulting voice, proud of the achievement of a new word, shouted
'Moineau, moineau.' Angered by defiance to authority, down came the rod, not indeed with great
force, but with enough to make the arms clasp round the mother's neck, the face hide itself
on in, a loud, terrified wail ring through the church, and tempestuous sobbing follow it up.
Then uprose the black-hooded figure, the child tightly clasped, and her mantle drawn round
it, while the other hand motioned the official aside, and down the aisle, even to the door,
she swept with the lofty carriage, high-drawn neck, and swelling bosom of an offended princess.

Maitre Gardon heard little more of the discourse, indeed he would have followed at once had
he not feared to increase the sensation and the scandal. He came home to find Rayonette's tears
long ago dried, but her mother furious. She would leave Montauban that minute, she would never
set foot in a heretic conventicle again, to have her fatherless child, daughter of all the
Ribaumonts, struck by base canaille. Even her uncle could not have done worse; he at least
would have respected her blood.

Maitre Gardon did not know that his charge could be in such a passion, as, her eyes flashing
through tears, she insisted on being taken away at once. No, she would hear nothing. She seemed
to fell resentment due to the honour of all the Ribaumonts, and he was obliged peremptorily
to refuse to quit Montauban till his business at the Synod should be completed, and then to
leave her in a flood of angry tears and reproaches for exposing her child to such usage, and
approving it.

Poor little thing, he found her meek and penitent for her unjust anger towards himself. Whatever
he desired she would do, she would stay or go with him anywhere except to a sermon at the Moustier,
and she did not think that in her heart her good father desired little infants to be beaten--least
of all Berenger's little one. And with Rayonette already on his knee, stealing his spectacles,
peace was made.

Peace with him, but not with the congregation! Were people to stalk out of church in a rage,
and make no reparation? Was Maitre Isaac to talk of orphans, only children, and maternal love,
as if weak human affection did not need chastisement? Was this saucy Parisienne to play the
offended, and say that if the child were not suffered at church she must stay at home with
it? The ladies agitated to have the obnoxious young widow reprimanded in open Synod, but, to
their still greater disgust, not a pastor would consent to perform the office. Some said that
Maitre Gardon ought to rule his own household, others that they respected him too much to interfere,
and there were others abandoned enough to assert that if any one needed a reprimand it was
the serjeant.

Of these was the young candidate, Samuel Mace, who had been educated at the expense of the
Dowager Duchess de Quinet, and hoped that her influence would obtain his election to the pastorate
of a certain peaceful little village deep in the Cevennes. She had intimated that what he wanted
was a wife to teach and improve the wives of the peasant farmers, and where could a more eligible
one be found than Esperance Gardon? Her cookery he tasted, her industry he saw, her tenderness
to her child, her attention to her father, were his daily admiration; and her soft velvet eyes
and sweet smile went so deep in his heart that he would have bought her ells upon ells of pink
ribbon, when once out of sight of the old ladies; would have given a father's love to her little
daughter, and a son's duty and veneration to Isaac Gardon.

His patroness did not deny her approval. The gossip had indeed reached her, but she had a high
esteem for Isaac Gardon, believed in Samuel Mace's good sense, and heeded Montauban scandal
very little. Her protege would be much better married to a spirited woman who had seen the
world, than to a mere farmer's daughter who had never looked beyond her cheese. Old Gardon
would be an admirable adviser, and if he were taken into the menage she would add to the endowment
another arable field, and grass for two more cows. If she liked the young woman on inspection,
the marriage should take place in her own august presence.

What! had Maitre Gardon refused? Forbidden that the subject should be mentioned to his daughter?
Impossible! Either Mace had managed matters foolishly, or the old man had some doubt of him
which she could remove, or else it was foolish reluctance to part with his daughter-in-law.
Or the gossips were right after all, and he knew her to be too light-minded, if not worse,
to be the wife of any pious young minister. Or there was some mystery. Any way, Madame la Duchesse
would see him, and bring him to his senses, make him give the girl a good husband if she were
worthy, or devote her to condign punishment if she were unworthy.

CHAPTER XXXIV. MADAME LA DUCHESSE

He found an ancient dame in dim brocade.---TENNYSON

Madame la Duchesse de Quinet had been a great heiress and a personal friend and favourite of
Queen Jeanne d'Albret. She had been left a widow after five years' marriage, and for forty
subsequent years had reigned despotically in her own name and that of mon fils. Busied with
the support of the Huguenot cause, sometimes by arms, but more usually by politics, and constantly
occupied by the hereditary government of one of the lesser counties of France, the Duke was
all the better son for relinquishing to her the home administration, as well as the education
of his two motherless boys; and their confidence and affection were perfect, though he was
almost as seldom at home as she was abroad. At times, indeed, she had visited Queen Jeanne
at Nerac; but since the good Queen's death, she only left the great chateau of Quinet to make
a royal progress of inspection through the family towns, castles, and estates, sometimes to
winter in her beautiful hereditary hotel at Montauban, and as at present to attend any great
assembly of the Reformed.

Very seldom was her will not law. Strong sense and judgment, backed by the learning that Queen
Marguerite of Navarre had introduced among the companions of her daughter, had rendered her
superior to most of those with whom she came in contact: and the Huguenot ministers, who were
much more dependent on their laity than the Catholic priesthood, for the most part treated
her as not only a devout and honourable woman, an elect lady, but as a sort of State authority.
That she had the right-mindedness to respect and esteem such men as Theodore Beza, Merlin,
&c., who treated her with great regard, but never cringed, had not become known to the rest.
Let her have once pronounced against poor little Esperance Gardon, and public disgrace would
be a matter of certainty.

There she sat in her wainscoted walnut cabinet, a small woman by her inches, but stately enough
to seem of majestic stature, and with gray eyes, of inexpressible keenness, which she fixed
upon the halting, broken form of Isaac Gardon, and his grave, venerable face, as she half rose
and made a slight acknowledgment of his low bow.

'Sit, Maitre Gardon, you are lame,' she said, with a wave of her hand. 'I gave you the incommodity
of coming to see me not openly discuss en pleine sale.'

'Madame is considerate,' said Isaac, civilly, but with an open-eyed look and air that at once
showed her that she had not to deal with one of the ministers who never forgot their low birth
in intercourse with her.

'I understand,' said she, coming to the point at once, 'that you decline the proposals of Samuel
Mace for your daughter-in-law. Now I wish you to know that Mace is a very good youth, whom
I have known from his birth'--and she went on in his praise, Isaac bowing at each pause, until
she had exhausted both Mace's history and her own beneficent intentions for him. Then he said,
'Madame is very good, and the young man appeared to me excellent. Nevertheless, this thing
may not be. My daughter-in-law has resolved not to marry again.'

'Nay, but this is mere folly,' said the Duchess. 'We hold not Catholic tenets on merit in abstaining,
but rather go by St. Paul's advice that the younger widows should marry, rather than wax wanton.
And, to tell you the truth, Maitre Gardon, this daughter of yours does seem to have set tongues
in motion.'

'Not by her own fault, Madame.'

'Stay, my good friend; I never found a man--minister or lay--who was a fair judge in these
matters. You old men are no better than the young--rather worse--because you do not distrust
yourselves. Now, I say no harm of the young woman, and I know an angel would be abused at Montauban
for not wearing sad-coloured wings; but she needs a man's care--you are frail, you cannot live
for ever--and how is it to be with her and her child?'

'I hope to bestow them among her kindred ere I die, Madame,' said Isaac.

'No kindred can serve a woman like a sensible husband! Besides, I thought all perished at Paris.
Listen, Isaac Gardon: I tell you plainly that scandal is afloat. You are blamed for culpable
indifference to alleged levities--I say not that it is true--but I see this, that unless you
can bestow your daughter-in-law on a good, honest man, able to silence the whispers of malice,
there will be measures taken that will do shame both to your own gray hairs and to the memory
of your dead son, as well as expose the poor young woman herself. You are one who has a true
tongue, Isaac Gardon; and if you can assure me that she is a faithful, good woman, as poor
Mace thinks her, and will give her to him in testimony thereof, then shall not a mouth open
against her. If not, in spite of all my esteem for you, the discipline of the Reformed must
take its course.'

'And for what?' said Isaac, with a grave tone, almost of reproof. 'What discipline can punish
a woman for letting her infant wear a coloured ribbon, and shielding it from a blow?'

'That is not all, Master Isaac,' said the Duchess, seriously. 'In spite of your much-respected
name, evil and censorious tongues will have it that matters ought to be investigated; that
there is some mystery; that the young woman does not give a satisfactory account of herself,
and that the child does not resemble either her or your son--in short, that you may be deceived
by an impostor, perhaps a Catholic spy. Mind, I say not that I credit all this, only I would
show you what reports you must guard against.'

'La pauvre petite!' said Isaac, under his breath, as if appalled; then collecting himself,
he said, 'Madame, these are well-nigh threats. I had come hither nearly resolved to confined
in you without them.'

'Then there is a mystery?'

'Yes, Madame, but the deception is solely in the name. She is, in very truth, a widow of a
martyr of the St. Barthelemy, but that martyr was not my son, whose wife was happy in dying
with him.'

'And who, then, is she?'

'Madame la Duchesse had heard of the family of Ribaumont.'

'Ha! M. de Ribaumont! A gay comrade of King Henry II., but who had his eyes opened to the truth
by M. l'Amiral, though he lacked courage for an open profession. Yes, the very last pageant
I beheld at court, was the wedding of his little son to the Count de Ribaumont's daughter.
It was said that the youth was one of our victims at Paris.'

'Even so, Madame; and this poor child is the little one whom you saw wedded to him.' And then,
in answer to the Duchess's astonished inquiry, he proceeded to relate how Eustacie had been
forced to fly from her kindred, and how he had first encountered her at his own lurking-placed,
and had accepted her as a charge imposed on him by Providence; then explained how, at La Sablerie,
she had been recognized by a young gentleman whom she had known at Paris, but who professed
to be fleeing to England, there to study the Protestant controversy; and how she had confided
to him a letter to her husband's mother, who was married in England, begging her to send for
her and her daughter, the latter being heiress to certain English estates, as well as French.

'Madame,' added Gardon, 'Heaven forgive me, if I do the Youth injustice by suspecting him,
but no answer ever arrived to that letter; and while we still expected one, a good and kindly
citizen, who I trust has long been received into glory, sent me notice that a detachment of
Monsieur's army was on its way from La Rochelle, under command of M. de Nid de Merle, to search
out this poor lady in La Sablerie. He, good man, deemed that, were we gone, he could make terms
for the place, and we therefore quitted it. Alas! Madame knows how it fared with the pious
friend we left. Little deeming how they would be dealt with, we took our way along the Sables
d'Olonne, where alone we could be safe, since, as Madame knows, they are for miles impracticable
for troops. But we had another enemy there--the tide; and there was a time when we truly deemed
that the mercy granted us had been that we had fallen into the hand of the Lord instead of
the hand of cruel man. Yes, Madame, and even for that did she give thanks, as she stood, never
even trembling, on the low sandbank, with her babe in her bosom, and the sea creeping up on
all sides. She only turned to me with a smile, saying, 'She is asleep, she will not feel it,
or know anything till she wakes up in Paradise, and sees her father.' Never saw I a woman,
either through nature or grace, so devoid of fear. We were rescued at last, by the mercy of
Heaven, which sent a fisherman, who bore us to his boat when benumbed with cold, and scarce
able to move. He took us to a good priest's, Colombeau of Nissard, a man who, as Madame may
know, is one of those veritable saints who still are sustained by the truth within their Church,
and is full of charity and mercy. He asked me no questions, but fed, warmed, sheltered us,
and sped us on our way. Perhaps, however, I was over-confident in myself, as the guardian of
the poor child, for it was Heaven's will that the cold and wet of our night on the sands--though
those tender young frames did not suffer therefrom--should bring on an illness which has made
an old man of me. I struggled on as long as I could, hoping to attain to a safe resting-place
for her, but the winter cold completed the work; and then, Madame--oh that I could tell you
the blessing she was to me!--her patience, her watchfulness, her tenderness, through all the
long weeks that I lay helpless alike in mind and body at Charente. Ah! Madame, had my own daughter
lived, she could not have been more to me than that noble lady; and her cheerful love did even
more for me than her tender care.'

'I must see her,' ejaculated the Duchesse; then added, 'But was it this illness that hindered
you from placing her in safety in England?'

'In part, Madame; nay, I may say, wholly. We learnt that the assembly was to take place here,
and I had my poor testimony to deliver, and to give notice of my intention to my brethren before
going to a foreign land, whence perhaps I may never return.'

'She ought to be in England,' said Madame de Quinet; 'she will never be safe from these kinsmen
in this country.'

'M. de Nid de Merle has been all the spring in Poland with the King,' said the minister, 'and
the poor lady is thought to have perished at La Sablerie. Thus the danger has been less pressing,
but I would have taken her to England at once, if I could have made sure of her reception,
and besides---' he faltered.

'The means?' demanded the Duchess, guessing at the meaning.

'Madame is right. She had brought away some money and jewels with her, but alas, Madame, during
my illness, without my knowledge, the dear child absolutely sold them to procure comforts for
me. Nay'--his eyes filled with tears--'she whom they blame for vanities sold the very hair
from her head to purchase unguents to ease the old man's pains; nor did I know it for many
a day after. From day to day we can live, for our own people willingly support a pastor and
his family; and in every house my daughter has been loved,--everywhere but in this harsh-judging
town. But for the expense of a voyage, even were we at Bordeaux or La Rochelle, we have nothing,
save by parting with the only jewels that remain to her, and those--those, she says, are heirlooms;
and, poor child, she guards them almost as jealously as her infant, around whom she has fastened
them beneath her clothes. She will not even as yet hear of leaving them in pledge, to be redeemed
by the family. She says they would hardly know her without them. And truly, Madame, I scarce
venture to take her to England, ere I know what reception would await her. Should her husband's
family disown or cast her off, I could take better care of her here than in a strange land.'

'You are right, Maitre Gardon,' said the Duchess; 'the risk might be great. I would see this
lady. She must be a rare creature. Bear her my greetings, my friend, and pray her to do me
the honour of a visit this afternoon. Tell her I would come myself to her, but that I understand
she does not wish to attract notice.'

'Madame,' said Isaac, rising, and with a strange manner, between a smile and a tear of earnestness,
'allow me to bespeak your goodness for my daughter. The poor little thing is scarcely more
than a child. She is but eighteen even now, and it is not always easy to tell whether she will
be an angel of noble goodness, or, pardon me, a half-petulant child.'

'I understand:' Madame de Quinet laughed, and she probably did understand more than reluctant,
anxious Isaac Gardon thought she did, of his winning, gracious, yet haughty, head-strong little
charge, so humbly helpful one moment, so self-asserting and childish the next, so dear to him,
yet so unlike anything in his experience.

'Child,' he said, as he found her in the sunny window engaged in plaiting the deep folds of
his starched ruffs, 'you have something to forgive me.'

'Fathers do not ask their children's pardon,' said Eustacie, brightly, but then, with sudden
dismay, 'Ah! you have not said I should go to the Moustier again.'

'No, daughter; but Madame de Quinet entreats--these are her words--that you will do her the
honour of calling on her. She would come to you, but that she fears to attract notice to us.'

'You have told her!' exclaimed Eustacie.

'I was compelled, but I had already thought of asking your consent, and she is a true and generous
lady, with whom your secret will be safe, and who can hush the idle tongues here. So, daughter,'
he added restlessly, 'don your hood; that ruff will serve for another day.'

'Another day, when the morrow is Sunday, and my father's ruff is to put to shame all the other
pastors',' said Eustacie, her quick fingers still moving. 'No, he shall not go ill-starched
for any Duchess in France. Now am I in any haste to be lectured by Madame de Quinet, as they
say she lectured the Dame de Soubrera the other day.'

'My child, you will go; much depends on it.'

'Oh yes, I am going; only if Madame de Quinet knows who I am, she will not expect me to hurry
at her beck and call the first moment. Here, Rayonette, my bird, my beauty, thou must have
a clean cap; ay, and these flaxen curls combed.'

'Would you take the child?'

'Would I go without Mademoiselle de Rambouillet? She is all her mother is, and more. There,
now she is a true rose-bud, ready to perch on my arm. No, no bon pere. So great a girl is too
much for you to carry. Don't be afraid, my darling, we are not going to a sermon, no one will
beat her; oh no, and if the insolent retainers and pert lacqueys laugh at her mother, no one
will hurt her.'

'Nay, child,' said Maitre Gardon; 'this is a well-ordered household, where contempt and scorn
are not suffered. Only, dear, dear daughter, let me pray you to be your true self with the
Duchess.'

Eustacie shrugged her shoulders, and had mischief enough in her to enjoy keeping her good father
in some doubt and dread as he went halting wearily by her side along the much-decorated streets
that marked the grand Gasche of Tarn and Tarascon. The Hotel de Quinet stretched out its broad
stone steps, covered with vaultings, absolutely across the street, affording a welcome shade,
and no obstruction where wheeled carriages never came.

All was, as Maitre Isaac had said, decorum itself. A couple of armed retainers, rigid as sentinels,
waited on the steps; a grave porter, maimed in the wars opened the great door; half a dozen--laquais
in sober though rich liveries sat on a bench in the hall, and had somewhat the air of having
been set to con a lesson. Two of them coming respectfully forward, ushered Maitre Gardon and
his companion to an ante-room, where various gentlemen, or pastors, or candidates--among them
Samuel Mace--were awaiting a summons to the Duchess, or merely using it as a place of assembly.
A page of high birth, but well schooled in steadiness of demeanour, went at once to announce
the arrival; and Gardon and his companion had not been many moments in conversation with their
acquaintance among the ministers, before the grave gentleman returned, apparently from his
audience and the page, coming to Eustacie, intimated that she was to follow him to Madame le
Duchesse's presence.

He conducted her across a great tapestry-hung saloon, where twelve or fourteen ladies of all
ages--from seventy to fifteen--sat at work: some at tapestry, some spinning, some making coarse
garments for the poor. A great throne-like chair, with a canopy over it, a footstool, a desk
and a small table before it, was vacant, and the work--a poor child's knitted cap--laid down;
but an elderly minister, seated at a carved desk, had not discontinued reading from a great
black book, and did not even cease while the strangers crossed the room, merely making a slight
inclination with his head, while the ladies half rose, rustled a slight reverence with their
black, gray or russet skirts, but hardly lifted their eyes. Eustacie thought the Louvre had
never been half so formidable or impressive.

The page lifted a heavy green curtain behind the canopy, knocked at a door, and, as it opened,
Eustacie was conscious of a dignified presence, that, in spite of her previous petulance, caused
her instinctively to bend in such a reverence as had formerly been natural to her; but, at
the same moment, a low and magnificent curtsey was made to her, a hand was held out, a stately
kiss was on her brow, and a voice of dignified courtesy said, 'Pardon me, Madame la Baronne,
for giving you this trouble. I feared that otherwise we could not safely meet.'

'Madame is very good. My Rayonette, make thy reverence; kiss thy hand to the lady, my lamb.'
And the little one obeyed, gazing with her blue eyes full opened, and clinging to her mother.

'Ah! Madame la Baronne makes herself obeyed,' said Madame de Quinet, well pleased. 'Is it then
a girl?'

'Yes, Madame, I could scarcely forgive her at first; but she has made herself all the dearer
to me.'

'It is a pity,' said Madame de Quinet, 'for yours is an ancient stem.'

'Did Madame know my parents?' asked Eustacie, drawn from her spirit of defiance by the equality
of the manner with which she was treated.

'Scarcely,' replied the Duchess; but, with a smile, 'I had the honour to see you married.'

'Ah, then,'--Eustacie glowed, almost smiled, though a tear was in her eyes--'you can see how
like my little one is to her father,--a true White Ribaumont.'

The Duchess had not the most distinct recollection of the complexion of the little bridegroom;
but Rayonette's fairness was incontestable, and the old lady complimented it so as to draw
on the young mother into confidence on the pet moonbeam appellation which she used in dread
of exciting suspicion by using the true name of Berangere, with all the why and wherefore.

It was what the Duchess wanted. Imperious as some thought her, she would on no account have
appeared to cross-examine any one whose essential nobleness of nature struck her as did little
Eustacie's at the first moment she saw her; and yet she had decided, before the young woman
arrived, that her own good opinion and assistance should depend on the correspondence of Madame
de Ribaumont's history of herself with Maitre Gardon's.

Eustacie had, for a year and a half, lived with peasants; and, indeed, since the trials of
her life had really begun, she had never been with a woman of her own station to whom she could
give confidence, or from whom she could look for sympathy. And thus a very few inquiries and
tokens of interest from the old lady drew out the whole story, and more than once filled Madame
de Quinet's eyes with tears.

There was only one discrepancy; Eustacie could not believe that the Abbe de Mericour had been
a faithless messenger. Oh, no! either those savage-looking sailors had played him false, or
else her bele-mere would not send for her. 'My mother-in-law never loved me,' said Eustacie;
'I know she never did. And now she has children by her second marriage, and no doubt would
not see my little one preferred to them. I will not be HER suppliant.'

'And what then would you do?' said Madame de Quinet, with a more severe tone.

'Never leave my dear father,' said Eustacie, with a flash of eagerness; 'Maitre Isaac I mean.
He has been more to me than any--any one I ever knew--save----'

'You have much cause for gratitude to him,' said Madame de Quinet. 'I honour your filial love
to him. Yet, you have duties to this little one. You have no right to keep her from her position.
You ought to write to England again. I am sure Maitre Isaac tells you so.'

Eustacie would have pouted, but the grave, kind authority of the manner prevented her from
being childish, and she said, 'If I wrote, it should be to my husband's grandfather, who brought
him up, designated him as his heir, and whom he loved with all his heart. But, oh, Madame,
he has one of those English names! So dreadful! It sounds like Vol-au-vent, but it is not that
precisely.'

Madame de Quinet smiled, but she was a woman of resources. 'See, my friend,' she said, 'the
pursuivant of the consuls here has the rolls of the herald's visitations throughout the kingdom.
The arms and name of the Baron de Ribaumont's wife will there be entered; and from my house
at Quinet you shall write, and I, too, will write; my son shall take care that the letters
be forwarded safely, and you shall await their arrival under my protection. That will be more
fitting than running the country with an old pastor, hein?'

'Madame, nothing shall induce me to quit him!' exclaimed Eustacie, vehemently.

'Hear me out, child,' said the Duchess. 'He goes with us to assist my chaplain; he is not much
fitter for wandering than you, or less so. And you, Madame, must, I fear me, still remain his
daughter-in-law in my household; or if you bore your own name and rank, this uncle and cousin
of yours might learn that you were still living; and did they claim you---'

'Oh, Madame, rather let me be your meanest kitchen-girl!'

'To be--what do they call you?--Esperance Gardon will be quite enough. I have various women
here--widows, wives, daughters or sufferers for the truth's sake, who either are glad of rest,
or are trained up to lead a godly life in the discipline of my household. Among them you can
live without suspicion, provided,' the old lady added, smiling, 'you can abstain from turning
the heads of our poor young candidates.'

'Madame,' said Eustacie, gravely, 'I shall never turn any one's head. There was only one who
was obliged to love me, and happily I am nor fair enough to win any one else.'

'Tenez, child. Is this true simplicity? Did Gardon, truly, never tell you of poor Samuel Mace?'

Eustacie's face expressed such genuine amazement and consternation, that the Duchess could
not help touching her on the cheek, and saying, 'Ah! simple as a pensionnaire, as we used to
say when no one else was innocent. But it is true, my dear, that to poor Samuel we owe our
meeting. I will send him off, the poor fellow, at once to Bourge-le-Roy to preach his three
sermons; and when they had driven you a little out of his head, he shall have Mariette there--a
good girl, who will make him an excellent wife. She is ugly enough, but it will be all the
same to him just then! I will see him, and let him know that I have reasons. He lodges in your
house, does he? Then you had better come to see me at once. So will evil tongues best be silenced.

'But hold,' the Duchess said, smiling. 'You will think me a foolish old woman, but is it true
that you have saved the Pearls of Ribaumont, of which good Canon Froissart tells?'

Eustacie lifted her child on her knee, untied the little gray frock, and showed them fastened
beneath, well out of sight. 'I thought my treasures should guard one another,' she said. 'One
I sent as a token to my mother-in-law. For the rest, they are not mine, but hers; her father
lent them to me, not gave: so she wears them thus; and anything but HER life should go rather
than THEY should.'

'Hein, a fine guardian for them!' was all the Duchess said in answer.

CHAPTER XXXV. THE ITALIAN PEDLAR

      This caitiff monk for gold did swear,
      That by his drugs my rival fair
          A saint in heaven should be.--SCOTT

A grand cavalcade bore the house of Quinet from Montauban--coaches, wagons, outriders, gendarmes--it
was a perfect court progress, and so low and cumbrous that it was a whole week in reaching
a grand old castle standing on a hill-side among chestnut woods, with an avenue a mile long
leading up to it; and battlemented towers fit to stand a siege.

Eustacie was ranked among the Duchess's gentlewomen. She was so far acknowledged as a lady
of birth, that she was usually called Madame Esperance; and though no one was supposed to doubt
her being Theodore Gardon's widow, she was regarded as being a person of rank who had made
a misalliance by marrying him. This Madame de Quinet had allowed the household to infer, thinking
that the whole bearing of her guest was too unlike that of a Paris bourgeoise not to excite
suspicion, but she deemed it wiser to refrain from treating her with either intimacy or distinction
that might excite jealousy or suspicion. Even as it was, the consciousness of a secret, or
the remnants of Montauban gossip, prevented any familiarity between Eustacie and the good ladies
who surrounded her; they were very civil to each other, but their only connecting link was
the delight that every one took in petting pretty little Rayonette, and the wonder that was
made of her signs of intelligence and attempts at talking. Even when she toddled fearlessly
up to the stately Duchess on her canopied throne, and held out her entreating hands, and lisped
the word 'nontre,' Madame would pause in her avocations, take her on her knee, and display
that wonderful gold and enamel creature which cried tic-tic, and still remained an unapproachable
mystery to M. le Marquis and M. le Vicomte, her grandsons.

Pale, formal stiff boys they looked, twelve and ten years old, and under the dominion of a
very learned tutor, who taught them Latin, Greek and Hebrew, alternately with an equally precise,
stiff old esquire, who trained them in martial exercises, which seemed to be as much matters
of rote with them as their tasks, and to be quite as uninteresting. It did not seem as if they
ever played, or thought of playing; and if they were ever to be gay, witty Frenchmen, a wonderful
change must come over them.

The elder was already betrothed to a Bearnese damsel, of an unimpeachably ancient and Calvinistic
family; and the whole establishment had for the last three years been employed on tapestry
hangings for a whole suite of rooms, that were to be fitted up and hung with the histories
of Ruth, of Abigail, of the Shunammite, and of Esther, which their diligent needles might hope
to complete by the time the marriage should take place, three years later! The Duchess, who
really was not unlike 'that great woman' the Shunammite, in her dignified content with 'dwelling
among her own people,' and her desire to 'receive a prophet in the name of a prophet,' generally
sat presiding over the work while some one, chaplain, grandson, or young maiden, read aloud
from carefully assorted books; religious treatises at certain hours, and at others, history.
Often, however, Madame was called away into her cabinet, where she gave audience to intendants,
notaries from her estates, pastors from the villages, captains of little garrisons, soldiers
offering service, farmers, women, shepherds, foresters, peasants, who came either on her business
or with their own needs--for all of which she was ready with the beneficence and decision of
an autocrat.

The chapel had been 'purified,' and made bare of all altar or image. It was filled with benches
and a desk, whence Isaac Gardon, the chaplain, any pastor on a visit, or sometimes a candidate
for his promotion, would expound, and offer prayers, shortly in the week, more at length on
Sunday; and there, too, classes were held for the instruction of the peasants.

There was a great garden full of medicinal plants, and decoctions and distilleries were the
chief variety enjoyed by the gentlewomen. The Duchess had studied much in quaint Latin and
French medical books, and, having great experience and good sense, was probably as good a doctor
as any one in the kingdom except Ambroise Pare and his pupils; and she required her ladies
to practise under her upon the numerous ailments that the peasants were continually bringing
for her treatment. 'No one could tell,' she said, 'how soon they might be dealing with gun-shot
wounds, and all ought to know how to sew up a gash, or cure an argue.'

This department suited Eustacie much better than the stitching, and best of all she liked to
be sent with Maitre Isaac to some cottage where solace for soul and body were needed, and the
inmate was too ill to be brought to Madame la Duchess. She was learning much and improving
too in the orderly household, but her wanderings had made her something of a little gipsy.
She now and then was intolerably weary, and felt as if she had been entirely spoilt for her
natural post. 'What would become of her,' she said to Maitre Isaac, 'if she were too grand
to dress Rayonette?'

She was not greatly distressed that the Montauban pursuivant turned out to have only the records
of the Provencal nobility, and was forced to communicate with his brethren at Bordeaux before
he could bring down the Ribaumont genealogy to the actual generation; and so slow was communication,
so tardy the mode of doing everything, that the chestnut leaves were falling and autumn becoming
winter before the blazoned letter showed Ribaumont, de Picardie--'Gules, fretty or, a canton
of the last, a leopard, sable. Eustacie Berangere, m. Annora, daughter and heiress of Villiam,
Baron of Valvem, in the county of Dorisette, England, who beareth, azure, a siren regardant
in a mirror proper.' The siren was drawn in all her propriety impaled with the leopard, and
she was so much more comprehensible than the names, to both Madame de Quinet and Eustacie,
that it was a pity they could not direct their letters to her rather than to 'Le Baron de Valvem,'
whose cruel W's perplexed them so much. However, the address was the least of Eustacie's troubles;
she should be only too glad when she got to that, and she was sitting in Maitre Isaac's room,
trying to make him dictate her sentences and asking him how to spell every third word, when
the dinner-bell rang, and the whole household dropped down from salon, library, study, or chamber
to the huge hall, with its pavement of black and white marble, and its long tables, for Madame
de Quinet was no woman to discard wholesome old practices.

Then, as Eustacie, with Rayonette trotting at her side, and Maitre Isaac leaning on her arm,
slowly made her way to that high table where dined Madame la Duchess, her grandsons, the ministers,
the gentlemen in waiting, and some three or four women besides herself, she saw that the lower
end of the great hall was full of silks, cloths, and ribbons heaped together; and, passing
by the lengthy rank of retainers, she received a bow and look of recognition from a dark, acute-looking
visage which she remembered to belong to the pedlar she had met at Charente.

The Duchess, at the head of her table, was not in the best of humours. Her son had sent home
letters by a courier whom he had picked up for himself and she never liked nor trusted, and
he required an immediate reply when she particularly resented being hurried. It was a galimafre,
literally a hash, she said; for indeed most matters where she was not consulted did become
a galimafre with her. Moreover, under favour of the courier, her porters had admitted this
pedlar, and the Duchess greatly disliked pedlars. All her household stores were bought at shops
of good repute in Montauban, and no one ought to be so improvident as to require dealings with
these mountebank vagabonds, who dangled vanities before the eyes of silly girls, and filled
their heads with Paris fashion, if they did not do still worse, and excite them to the purchase
of cosmetics and love-charms.

Yet the excitement caused by the approach of a pedlar was invincible, even by Madame la Duchess.
It was inevitable that the crying need of glove, kerchief, needle, or the like, should be discovered
as soon as he came within ken, and, once in the hall, there was no being rid of him except
by a flagrant act of inhospitality. This time it was worst of all, for M. le Marquis himself
must needs be the first to spy him, bring him in, and be in want of a silver chain for his
hawk; and his brother the Vicomte must follow him up with all manner of wants inspired by the
mere sight of the pack.

Every one with the smallest sum of money must buy, every one without inspect and assist in
bargaining; and all dinner-time, eyes, thoughts, and words were wandering to the gay pile in
the corner, or reckoning up needs and means. The pedlar, too, knew what a Calvinist household
was, and had been extremely discreet, producing nothing that could reasonably be objected to;
and the Duchess, seeing that the stream was too strong for her, wisely tried to steer her bark
through it safely instead of directly opposing it.

As soon as grace was over, she called her maitre d'hotel, and bade him look after that galimafre,
and see that none of these fools were unreasonably cheated, and that there was no attempt at
gulling the young ones with charms or fortune-telling, as well as to conclude the matter so
as to give no excuse for the Italian fellow lingering to sup and sleep. She then retired to
her cabinet to prepare her dispatches, which were to include a letter to Lord Walwyn. Though
a nominal friendship subsisted between Elisabeth and the French court, the Huguenot chiefs
always maintained a correspondence with England, and there was little danger but that the Duke
de Quinet would be able to get a letter, sooner or later, conveyed to any man of mark. In the
course of her letter, Madame de Quinet found it necessary to refer to Eustacie. She rang her
little silver handbell for the hall. There, of course, Master Page had been engulfed in the
galimafre, and not only forming one of the swarm around the pedlar, but was actually aping
courtly grimaces as he tried a delicate lace ruffle on the hand of a silly little smirking
maiden, no older than himself! But this little episode was, like many others, overlooked by
Madame de Quinet, as her eye fell upon the little figure of Rayonette standing on the table,
with her mother and two or three ladies besides coaxing her to open her mouth, and show the
swollen gums that had of late been troubling her, while the pedlar was evidently expending
his blandishments upon her.

The maitre d'hotel was the first to perceive his mistress, and, as he approached, received
a sharp rebuke from her for allowing the fellow to produce his quack medicines; and, at the
same time, she desired him to request Madame Esperance to come to her immediately on business.
Eustacie, who always had a certain self-willed sense of opposition when the Duchess showed
herself peremptory towards her, at first began to make answer that she would come as soon as
her business was concluded; but the steward made a gesture towards the great lady sailing up
and down as she paced the dais in stately impatience. 'Good fellow,' she said, 'I will return
quickly, and see you again, though I am now interrupted. Stay there, little one, with good
Mademoiselle Perrot; mother will soon be back.'

Rayonette, in her tooth-fretfulnes, was far from enduring to be forsaken so near a strange
man, and her cry made it necessary for Eustacie to take her in arms, and carry her to the dais
where the Duchess was waiting.

'So!' said the lady, 'I suspected that the fellow was a quack as well as a cheat.'

'Madame,'said Eustacie, with spirit, 'he sold me unguents that greatly relieved my father last
spring.'

'And because rubbing relieved an old man's rheumatics, you would let a vagabond cheat drug
and sicken this poor child for what is not ailment at all--and the teeth will relieve in a
few days. Or, if she were feverish, have not we decoctions brewed from Heaven's own pure herbs
in the garden, with no unknown ingredient?'

'Madame,' said Eustacie, ruffling into fierceness, 'you are very good to me; but I must keep
the management of my daughter to myself.'

The Duchess looked at her from head to foot. Perhaps it was with an impulse to treat her impertinence
as she would have done that of a dependant; but the old lady never forgot herself: she only
shrugged her shoulders and said, with studied politeness, 'When I unfortunately interrupted
your consultation with this eminent physician, it was to ask you a question regarding this
English family. Will you do me the honour to enter my cabinet?'

And whereas no one was looking, the old lady showed her displeasure by ushering Madame de Ribaumont
into her cabinet like a true noble stranger guest; so that Eustacie felt disconcerted.

The Duchess then began to read aloud her own letter to Lord Walwyn, pausing at every clause,
so that Eustacie felt the delay and discussion growing interminable, and the Duchess then requested
to have Madame de Ribaumont's own letter at once, as she wished to inclose it, make up her
packet, and send it without delay. Opening a secret door in her cabinet, she showed Eustacie
stair by which she might reach Maitre Gardon's room without crossing the hall. Eustacie hoped
to find him there and tell him how intolerable was the Duchess; but, though she found him,
it was in company with the tutor, who was spending an afternoon on Plato with him. She could
only take up her letter and retreat to Madame's cabinet, where she had left her child. She
finished it as best she might, addressed it after the herald's spelling of the title, bound
it with some of the Duchess's black floss silk--wondering meanwhile, but little guessing that
the pedlar knew, where was the tress that had bound her last attempt at correspondence, guessing
least of all that that tress lay on a heart still living and throbbing for her. All this had
made her a little forget her haste to assert her liberty of action by returning to the pedlar;
but, behold, when she came back to the hall, it had resumed its pristine soberness, and merely
a few lingering figures were to be seen, packing up their purchases.

While she was still looking round in dismay, Mademoiselle Perrot came up to her and said, 'Ah!
Madame, you may well wonder! I never saw Maitre Benoit there so cross; the poor man did but
offer to sell little Fanchon the elizir that secures a good husband, and old Benoit descended
on him like a griffin enraged, would scarce give him time to compute his charges or pack his
wares, but hustled him forth like a mere thief! And I missed my bargain for that muffler that
had so taken my fancy. But, Madame, he spoke to me apart, and said you were an old customer
of his, and that rather than the little angel should suffer with her teeth, which surely threaten
convulsions, he would leave with you this sovereign remedy of sweet syrup--a spoonful to be
given each night.'

Eustacie took the little flask. She was much inclined to give the syrup by way of precaution,
as well as to assure herself that she was not under the Duchess's dominion; but some strong
instinct of the truth of the lady's words that the child was safer and healthier undoctored,
made her resolve at least to defer it until the little one showed any perilous symptom. And
as happily Rayonette only showed two little white teeth, and much greater good-humour, the
syrup was nearly forgotten, when, a fortnight after, the Duchess received a dispatch from her
son which filled her with the utmost indignation. The courier had indeed arrived, but the packet
had proved to be filled with hay and waste-paper. And upon close examination, under the lash,
the courier had been forced to confess to having allowed himself to be overtaken by the pedlar,
and treated by him to a supper at a cabaret. No doubt, while he was afterwards asleep, the
contents of his packet had been abstracted. There had been important documents for the Duke
besides Eustacie's letters, and the affair greatly annoyed the Duchess, though she had the
compensation of having been proved perfectly right in her prejudice against pedlars, and her
dislike of her son's courier. She sent for Eustacie to tell her privately of the loss, and
of course the young mother at once turned pale and exclaimed, 'The wicked one! Ah! what a blessing
that I gave my little darling none of his dose!'

'Hein? You had some from him then!' demanded the Duchess with displeasure.

'No, Madame, thanks, thanks to you. Oh! I never will be self-willed and naughty again. Forgive
me, Madame.' And down she dropped on her knee, with clasped hands and glistening eyes.

'Forgive you, silly child, for what?' said Madame de Quinet, nearly laughing.

'Ah! for the angry, passionate thoughts I had! Ah! Madame, I was all but giving the stuff to
my little angel in very spite--and then---' Eutacie's voice was drowned in passion of tears,
and she devoured the old lady's hand with her kisses.

'Come, come,' said the Duchess, 'let us be reasonable. A man may be a thief, but it does not
follow that he is a poisoner.'

'Nay, that will we see,' cried Eutacie. 'He was resolved that the little lamb should not escape,
and he left a flask for her with Mademoiselle Perrot. I will fetch it, if Madame will give
me leave. Oh, the great mercy of Heaven that made her so well that I gave her none!'

Madame de Quinet's analytic powers did not go very far; and would probably have decided against
the syrup if it had been nothing but virgin honey. She was one who fully believed that her
dear Queen Jeanne had been poisoned with a pair of gloves, and she had unlimited faith in the
powers of evil possessed by Rene of Milan. Of course, she detected the presence of a slow poison,
whose effects would have been attributed to the ailment it was meant to cure; and though her
evidence was insufficient, she probably did Ercole no injustice. She declined testing the compound
on any unfortunate dog or cat, but sealed it up in the presence of Gardon, Eutacie, and Mademoiselle
Perrot, to be produced against the pedlar if ever he should be caught.

Then she asked Eutacie if there was any reason to suspect that he recognized her. Eutacie related
the former dealings with him, when she had sold him her jewels and her hair, but she had no
notion of his being the same person whom she had seen when at Montpipeau. Indeed, he had altered
his appearance so much that he had been only discovered at Nid-de-Merle by eyes sharpened by
distrust of his pretensions to magic arts.

Madame de Quinet, however, concluded that Eutacie had been known, or else that her jewels had
betrayed her, and that the man must have been employed by her enemies. If it had not been the
depth of winter, she would have provided for the persecuted lady's immediate transmission to
England; but he storms of the Bay of Biscay would have made this impossible in the state of
French navigation, even if Isaac Gardon had been in a condition to move; for the first return
of cold had brought back severe rheumatic pains, and with them came a shortness of breath which
even the Duchess did not know to be the token of heart complaint. He was confined to his room,
and it was kneeling by his bedside that Eutacie poured out her thankfulness for her child's
preservation, and her own repentance for the passing fit of self-will and petulance. The thought
of Rayonette's safety seemed absolutely to extinguish the fresh anxiety that had arisen since
it had become evident that her enemies no longer supposed her dead, but were probably upon
her traces. Somehow, danger had become almost a natural element to her, and having once expressed
her firm resolution that nothing should separate her from her adopted father, to whom indeed
her care became constantly more necessary, she seemed to occupy herself very little with the
matter; she nursed him as merrily as ever, and left to him and Madame de Quinet the grave consultations
as to what was to be done for her security. There was a sort of natural buoyancy about her
that never realized a danger till it came, and then her spirit was roused to meet it.

CHAPTER XXXVI. SPELL AND POTION

     Churl, upon thy eyes I throw
     All the power this charm doth owe
                   MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM

Her rival lived! The tidings could not but be communicated to Diane de Selinville, when her
father set out en grande tenue to demand his niece from the Duke de Quinet. This, however,
was not till spring was advancing; for the pedlar had not been able to take a direct route
back to Nid-de-Merle, since his first measure had necessarily been to escape into a province
where the abstraction of a Huguenot nobleman's despatches would be considered as a meritorious
action. Winter weather, and the practice of his profession likewise, delayed Ercole so much
that it was nearly Easter before he brought his certain intelligence to the Chevalier, and
to the lady an elixir of love, clear and coloured as crystal, and infallible as an inspirer
of affection.

Should she administer it, now that she knew her cousin not to be the lawful object of affection
she had so long esteemed him, but, as he persisted in considering himself, a married man? Diane
had more scruples than she would have had a year before, for she had not so long watched and
loved one so true and conscientious as Berenger de Ribaumont without having her perceptions
elevated; but at the same time the passion of love had become intensified, both by long continuance
and by resistance. She had attached herself, believing him free, and her affections could not
be disentangled by learning that he was bound--rather the contrary.

Besides, there was plenty of sophistry. Her father had always assured her of the invalidity
of the marriage, without thinking it necessary to dwell on his own arrangements for making
it invalid, so that was no reasonable ground of objection; and a lady of Diane's period, living
in the world where she had lived, would have had no notion of objecting to her lover for a
previous amour, and as such was she bidden to rank Berenger's relations with Eutacie. And there
was the less scruple on Eutacie's account, because the Chevalier, knowing that the Duchess
had a son and two grandsons, had conceived a great terror that she meant to give his niece
to one of them; and this would be infinitely worse, both for the interests of the family and
of their party, than even her reunion with the young Baron. Even Narcisse, who on his return
had written to Paris a grudging consent to the experiment of his father and sister, had allowed
that the preservation of Berenger's life was needful till Eutacie should be in their power
so as to prevent such a marriage as that! To Diane, the very suggestion became certainty: she
already saw Eutacie's shallow little heart consoled and her vanity excited by these magnificent
prospects, and she looked forward to the triumph of her own constancy, when Berenger should
find the image so long enshrined in his heart crumble in its sacred niche.

Yet a little while then would she be patient, even though nearly a year had passed and still
she saw no effect upon her prisoners, unless, indeed, Philip had drunk of one of her potions
by mistake and his clumsy admiration was the consequence. The two youths went on exactly in
the same manner, without a complaint, without a request, occupying themselves as best they
might--Berenger courteously attentive recovered his health, and the athletic powers displayed
by the two brothers when wrestling, fencing, or snow-balling in the courtyard, were the amazement
and envy of their guard. Twice in the course of the winter there had been an alarm of wolves,
and in their eagerness and excitement about this new sport, they had accepted the Chevalier's
offer of taking their parole for the hunt. They had then gone forth with a huge posse of villagers,
who beat the woods with their dogs till the beast was aroused from its lair and driven into
the alleys, where waited gentlemen, gendarmes, and game keepers with their guns. These two
chases were chiefly memorable to Berenger, because in the universal intermingling of shouting
peasants he was able in the first to have some conversation with Eutacie's faithful protector
Martin, who told him the incidents of her wanderings, with tears in his eyes, and blessed him
for his faith that she was not dead; and in the second, he actually found himself in the ravine
of the Grange du Temple. No need to ask, every voice was shouting the name, and though the
gendarmes were round him and he durst not speak to Rotrou, still he could reply with significative
earnestness to the low bow with which the farmer bent to evident certainty that here was the
imprisoned Protestant husband of the poor lady. Berenger wore his black vizard mask as had
been required of him, but the man's eyes followed him, as though learning by heart the outline
of his tall figure. The object of the Chevalier's journey was, of course, a secret from the
prisoners, who merely felt its effects by having their meals served to them in their own tower;
and when he returned after about a month's absence though him looking harassed, aged, and so
much out of humour that he could scarcely preserve his usual politeness. In effect he was greatly
chagrined.

'That she is in their hands is certain, the hypocrites!' he said to his daughter and sister;
'and no less so that they have designs on her; but I let them know that these could be easily
traversed.'

'But where is she, the unhappy apostate child?' said the Abbess. 'They durst not refuse her
to you.'

'I tell you they denied all present knowledge of her. The Duke himself had the face to make
as though he never heard of her. He had no concern with his mother's household and guests forsooth!
I do not believe he has; the poor fellow stands in awe of that terrible old heretic dragon,
and keeps aloof from her as much as he can. But he is, after all, a beau jeune home; nor should
I be surprised if he were the girl's gay bridegroom by this time, though I gave him a hint
that there was an entanglement about the child's first marriage which, by French law, would
invalidate any other without a dispensation from the Pope.'

'A hard nut that for a heretic,' laughed the Abbess.

'He acted the ignorant--knew nothing about the young lady; but had the civility to give me
a guide and an escort to go to Quinet. Ma foi! I believe they were given to hinder me--take
me by indirect roads, make me lose time at chateaux. When I arrived at the grim old chateau--a
true dungeon, precise as a convent--there was the dame, playing the Queen Jeanne as well as
she could, and having the insolence to tell me that it was true that Madame la Baronne de Ribaumont,
as she was pleased to call her, had honoured her residence for some months, but that she had
now quitted it, and she flatly refused to answer any question whither she was gone! The hag!
she might at least have had the decorum to deny all knowledge of her, but nothing is more impertinent
that the hypocritical sincerity of the heretics.'

'But her people,' exclaimed the Abbess; 'surely some of them knew, and could be brought to speak.'

'All the servants I came in contact with played the incorruptible; but still I have done something.
There were some fellows in the village who are not at their ease under that rule. I caused
my people to inquire them out. They knew nothing more than that the old heretic Gardon with
his family had gone away in Madame la Duchesse's litter, but whither they could not tell. But
the cabaretier there is furious secretly with the Quinets for having spoilt his trade by destroying
the shrine at the holy well, and I have made him understand that it will be for his profit
to send me off intelligence so soon as there is any communication between them and the lady.
I made the same arrangement with a couple of gendarmes of the escort the Duke gave me. So at
least we are safe for intelligence such as would hinder a marriage.'

'But they will be off to England!' said the Abbess.

'I wager they will again write to make sure of a reception. Moreover, I have set that fellow
Ercole and others of his trade to keep a strict watch on all the roads leading to the ports,
and give me due notice of their passing thither. We have law on our side, and, did I once claim
her, no one could resist my right. Or should the war break out, as is probable, then could
my son sweep their whole province with his troops. This time she cannot escape us.

The scene that her father's words and her own imagination conjured up, of Eustacie attracting
the handsome widower-duke, removed all remaining scruples from Madame de Selinville. For his
own sake, the Baron must be made to fulfil the prophecy of the ink-pool, and allow his prison
doors to be opened by love. Many and many a tender art did Diane rehearse; numerous were her
sighs; wakeful, languishing, and restless her nights and days; and yet, whatever her determination
to practise upon her cousin the witcheries that she had learnt in the Escadron de la Reine-mere,
and seen played off effectually where there was not one grain of love to inspire them, her
powers and her courage always failed her in the presence of him whom she sought to attract.
His quiet reserve and simplicity always disconcerted her, and any attempt at blandishment that
he could not mistake was always treated by him as necessarily an accidental error, as if any
other supposition would render her despicable; and yet there was now and then a something that
made her detect an effort in his restraint, as if it were less distaste than self-command.
Her brother had contemptuously acquiesced in the experiment made by herself and her father,
and allowed that so long as there was any danger of the Quinet marriage, the Baron's existence
was needful. He would not come to Nid-de-Merle, nor did they want him there, knowing that he
could hardly have kept his hands off his rival. But when the war broke out again in the summer
of 1575 he joined that detachment of Guise's army which hovered about the Loire, and kept watch
on the Huguenot cities and provinces of Western France. The Chevalier made several expeditions
to confer with his son, and to keep up his relations with the network of spies whom he had
spread over the Quinet provinces. The prisoners were so much separated from all intercourse
with the dependants that they were entirely ignorant of the object of his absence from home.
On these occasions they never left their tower and its court, and had no enlivenment save an
occasional gift of dainties or message of inquiry from the ladies at Bellaise. These were brought
by a handsome but slight, pale lad called Aime de Selinville, a relative of the late Count,
as he told them, who had come to act as a gentleman attendant upon the widowed countess. The
brothers rather wondered how he was disposed of at the convent, but all there was so contrary
to their preconceived notions that they acquiesced. The first time he arrived it was on a long,
hot summer day, and he then brought them a cool iced sherbet in two separate flasks, that for
Philip being mixed with wine, which was omitted for Berenger; and the youth stood lingering
and watching, anxious, he said, to be able to tell his lady how the drinks were approved. Both
were excellent, and to that effect the prisoners replied; but no sooner was the messenger gone
than Berenger said smilingly, 'That was a love potion, Phil.'

'And you drank it!' cried Philip, in horror.

'I did not think of it till I saw how the boy's eyes were gazing curiously at me as I swallowed
it. You look at me as curiously, Phil. Are you expecting it to work? Shall I be at the fair
lady's feet next time we meet?'

'How can you defy it, Berry?'

'Nay, Phil; holy wedded love is not to be dispelled by a mountebank's decoction.'

'But suppose it were poisonous, Berry, what can be done?' cried Philip, starting up in dismay.

'Then you would go home, Phil, and this would be over. But'--seeing his brother's terror--'there
is no fear of that. She is not like to wish to poison me.'

And the potion proved equally ineffective on mind and body, as indeed did all the manipulations
exercised upon a little waxen image that was supposed to represent M. le Baron. Another figure
was offered to Diane, in feminine form, with black beads for eyes and a black plaster for hair,
which, when stuck full of pins and roasted before the fire, was to cause Eustacie to peak and
pine correspondingly. But from this measure Diane shrank. If aught was done against her rival
it must be by her father and brother, not by herself; and she would not feel herself directly
injuring her little cousin, nor sinking herself below him whom she loved. Once his wife, she
would be good for ever, held up by his strength.

Meantime Berenger had received a greater shock than she or her father understood in the looking
over of some of the family parchments kept in store at the castle. The Chevalier, in showing
them to him, had chiefly desired to glorify the family by demonstrating how its honours had
been won, but Berenger was startled at finding that Nid-de-Merle had been, as it appeared to
him, arbitrarily and unjustly declared to be forfeited by the Sieur de Bellaise, who had been
thrown into prison by Louis XI. for some demonstration in favour of the poor Duke de Berri,
and granted to the favourite Ribaumont. The original grant was there, and to his surprise he
found it was to male heirs--the male heirs alone of the direct line of the Ribaumont--to whom
the grant was made. How, then, came it to Eustacie? The disposal had, with almost equal injustice,
been changed by King Henry II. and the late Count de Ribaumont in favour of the little daughter
whose union with the heir of the elder line was to conclude all family feuds. Only now did
Berenger understand what his father had said on his death-bed of flagrant injustice committed
in his days of darkness. He felt that he was reaping the reward of the injuries committed against
the Chevalier and his son on behalf of the two unconscious children. He would willingly at
once have given up all claim to the Nid-de-Merle estate--and he was now of age; two birthdays
had passed in his captivity and brought him to years of discretion--but he had no more power
than before to dispose of what was the property of Eustacie and her child; and the whole question
of the validity of his marriage would be given up by his yielding even the posthumous claim
that might have devolved on him in case of Eustacie's death. This would be giving up her honour,
a thing impossible.

'Alas!' he sighed, 'my poor father might well say he had bound a heavy burthen round my neck.'

And from that time his hopes sank lower as the sense of the justice of his cause left him.
He could neither deny his religion nor his marriage, and therefore could do nothing for his
own deliverance; and he knew himself to be suffering in the cause of a great injustice; indeed,
to be bringing suffering on the still more innocent Philip.

The once proudly indifferent youth was flagging now; was losing appetite, flesh, and colour;
was unwilling to talk or to take exercise; and had a wan and drooping air that was most painful
to watch. It seemed as if the return of summer brought a sense of the length and weariness
of the captivity, and that the sunshine and gaiety of the landscape had become such a contrast
to the captives' deadness of spirit that they could hardly bear to behold them, and felt the
dull prison walls more congenial to their feelings than the gaiety of the summer hay and harvest-fields.

CHAPTER XXXVII. BEATING AGAINST THE BARS

My horse is weary of the stall, And I am sick of captive thrall.--LADY OF THE LAKE

Letters! They were hailed like drops of water in a thirsty land. No doubt they had been long
on the way, ere they had reached the hands of the Chevalier de Ribaumont, and it was quite
possible that they had been read and selected; but, as Berenger said, he defied any Frenchman
to imitate either Lord Walwyn's style or Sir Marmaduke's, and when late in the autumn the packet
was delivered to him, the two captives gloated over the very outsides before they opened them.

The first intelligence that greeted them made them give a cry of amusement and surprise. Lady
Thistlewood, whose regrets that each of her girls was not a boy had passed into a proverb,
had at length, in Dolly's seventh year, given birth to a son on Midsummer Day.

'Well,' said Philip, sighing, 'we must drink his health tonight! It is well, if we are to rot
here, that some one should make it up to them!'

'And join Walwyn and Hurst!' said Berenger; and then both faces grew much graver, as by these
letters, dated three months since, they understood how many they must have missed, and likewise
that nothing had been heard of themselves since they had left Paris sixteen months ago. Their
letters, both to their relations and to Sir Francis Walsingham, had evidently been suppressed;
and Lord North, who had succeeded Walsingham as ambassador, had probably been misled by design,
either by Narcisse de Nid-de-Merle himself, or by some of his agents, for Lord Walwyn had heard
from him that the young men were loitering among the castles and garrisons of Anjou, leading
a gay and dissipated life, and that it was universally believed that the Baron de Ribaumont
had embraced the Catholic faith, and would shortly be presented to Henry III. to receive the
grant of the Selinville honours, upon his marriage with his cousin, the widow of the last of
the line. With much earnestness and sorrow did good old Lord Walwyn write to his grandson,
conjuring him to bethink himself of his some, his pure faith, his loving friends, and the hopes
of his youth: and, at least, if he himself had been led away by the allurements of the other
party, to remember that Philip had been intrusted to him in full confidence, and to return
him to his home. 'It was grief and shame to him,' said the good old man, 'to look at Sir Marmaduke,
who had risked his son in the charge of one hitherto deemed trustworthy; and even if Berenger
had indeed forgotten and cast away those whom he had once seemed to regard with love and duty,
he commanded him to send home Philip, who owed an obedience to his father that could not be
gainsaid.' Lord Walwyn further bade his grandson remember that the arrangements respecting
his inheritance had been made in confidence that his heir was English in heart and faith, and
that neither the Queen nor his own conscience would allow him to let his inheritance pass into
French of Papist hands. There was scarcely a direct reproach, but the shaken, altered handwriting
showed how stricken the aged man must be; and after his signature was added one still more
trembling line, 'An ye return not speedily, ye will never see the old grandsire more.'

Berenger scarcely finished the letter through his burning tears of agony, and then, casting
it from him, began to pace the room in fierce agitation, bursting out into incoherent exclamations,
grasping at his hair, even launching himself against the massive window with such frenzied
gestures and wild words that Philip, who had read through all with his usual silent obtuseness,
became dismayed, and, laying hold of him, said, 'Prithee, brother, do not thus! What serves
such passion?'

Berenger burst into a strange loud laugh at the matter-of-fact tone. 'What serves it! what
serves anything!' he cried, 'but to make me feel what a miserable wretch I am? But he will
die, Philip--he will die--not having believed me! How shall we keep ourselves from the smooth-tongued
villain's throat? That I should be thus judged a traitor by my grandfather----'

And with a cry as of bodily anguish, he hid his face on the table, and groaned as he felt the
utter helplessness of his strong youth in bonds.

'It can't be helped,' was the next of the unconsolatory platitudes uttered by Philip, who always
grew sullen and dogged when his brother's French temperament broke forth under any sudden stroke.
'If they will believe such things, let them! You have not heard what my father says to it.'

'It will be all the same,' groaned Berenger.

'Nay! now that's a foul slander, and you should be ashamed of doing my father such wrong,'
said Philip, 'Listen;' and he read: 'I will believe no ill of the lad no more than of thee,
Phil. It is but a wild-goose chase, and the poor young woman is scarce like to be above ground;
but, as I daily tell them, 'tis hard a man should forfeit his land for seeking his wife. My
Lord North sends rumours that he is under Papist guiding, and sworn brother with the Black
Ribaumonts; and my Lady, his grandmother, is like to break her heart, and my Lord credits them
more than he ought, and never a line as a token comes from you. Then there's Dame Annora, as
proud of the babe as though neither she nor woman born ever had a son before, and plains over
him, that both his brothers should be endowed, and he but a younger son. What will be the end
on't I cannot tell. I will stand up for the right as best man may do, and never forget that
Berry is her first-born, and that his child may be living; but the matter is none of mine,
and my Lord is very aged, nor can a man meddle between his wife and her father. So this I tell
you that you may make your brother lay it to heart. The sooner he is here the better, if he
be still, as I verily believe and maintain him to be, an honest English heart that snaps his
fingers at French papistry.' 'There,' conclude Philip triumphantly, 'he knows an honest man!
He's friend and good father to you as much as ever. Heed none of the rest. He'll never let
this little rogue stand in your light.'

'as if I cared for that!' said Berenger, beginning his caged-tiger walk again, and, though
he tried to repress his anguish, breaking out at times into fierce revilings of the cruel toils
that beset him, and despairing lamentations over those beloved ones at home, with sobs, groans,
and tears, such as Philip could not brook to witness. Both because they were so violent and
mourn-full, and because he thought them womanish, though in effect no woman's grief could have
had half that despairing force. The fierte of the French noble, however, came to his aid. At
the first sound of the great supper-bell he dashed away his tears, composed his features, washed
his face, and demanded haughtily of Philip, whether there were any traces in his looks that
the cruel hypocrite, their jailer, could gloat over.

And with proud step and indifferent air he marched into the hall, answered the Chevalier's
polite inquiry whether the letter had brought good tidings by coolly thanking him and saying
that all at home were well; and when he met the old man's inquiring glance out of the little
keen black bead in the puckered, withered eyelid, he put a perfectly stony unmeaningness into
his own gaze, till his eyes looked like the blue porcelain from China so much prized by the
Abbess. He even played at chess all the evening with such concentrated attention as to be uniformly
victorious.

Yet half the night Philip heard suppressed moans and sobs--then knew that he was on his knees--then,
after long and comparatively silent weeping, he lay down again, and from the hour when he awoke
in the morning, he returned no more to the letters; and though for some little time more sad
and dispirited, he seemed to have come to regard the misjudgment at home as a part of the burthen
he was already bearing.

That burthen was, however, pressing more heavily. The temperaments of the two brothers so differed
that while the French one was prostrated by the agony of a stroke, and then rallied patiently
to endure the effects, the English character opposed a passive resistance to the blow, gave
no sign of grief or pain, and from that very determination suffered a sort of exhaustion that
made the effects of the evil more and more left. Thus, from the time Philip's somewhat tardy
imagination had been made to realize his home, his father, and his sisters, the home-sickness,
and weariness of his captivity, which had already begun to undermine his health and spirits,
took increasing effect.

He made no complaint--he never expressed a wish--but, in the words of the prophet, he seemed
'pining away on his feet.' He did not sleep, and though, to avoid remark, he never failed to
appear at meals, he scarcely tasted food. He never willingly stirred from cowering over the
fire, and was so surly and ill-tempered that only Berenger's unfailing good-humour could have
endured it. Even a wolf-hunt did not stir him. He only said he hated outlandish beasts, and
that it was not like chasing the hare in Dorset. His calf-love for Madame de Selinville had
entirely faded away in his yearnings after home. She was only one of the tediously recurring
sights of his captivity, and was loathed like all the rest. The regulation rides with the Chevalier
were more detestable than ever, and by and by they caused such fatigue that Berenger perceived
that his strength must be warning, and became so seriously alarmed that one evening, when Philip
had barely dragged himself to the hall, tasted nothing but a few drops of wine, and then dropped
into an uneasy slumber in his chair, he could not but turn to the Chevalier an appealing, indignant
countenance, as he said, in a low but quivering voice, 'You see, sir, how he is altered!'

'Alas! fair nephew, it is but too plain. He is just of the age when such restraint tells severely
upon the health.'

Then Berenger spoke out upon the foul iniquity of the boy's detention. For himself, he observed,
he had nothing to say; he knew the term of his release, and had not accepted them; but Philip,
innocent of all damage to the Ribaumont interests, the heir of an honourable family, what had
he done to incur the cruel imprisonment that was eating away his life?

'I tell you, sir,' said Berenger, with eyes filled with tears,' that his liberty is more precious
to me than my own. Were he but restored to our home, full half the weight would be gone from
my spirit.'

'Fair nephew,' said the Chevalier, 'you speak as though I had any power in the matter, and
were not merely standing between you and the King.'

'Then if so,' said Berenger, 'let the King do as he will with me, but let Philip's case be
known to our Ambassador.'

'My poor cousin,' said the Chevalier, 'you know not what you ask. Did I grant your desire,
you would only learn how implacable King Henri is to those who have personally offended him--above
all, to heretics. Nor could the Ambassador do anything for one who resisted by force of arms
the King's justice. Leave it to me; put yourself in my hands, and deliverance shall come for
him first, then for you.'

'How, sir?'

'One token of concession--one attendance at mass--one pledge that the alliance shall take place
when the formalities have been complied with--then can I report you our own; give you almost
freedom at once; despatch our young friend to England without loss of time; so will brotherly
affection conquer those chivalrous scruples, most honourable in you, but which, carried too
far, become cruel obstinacy.'

Berenger looked at Philip; saw how faded and wan was the ruddy sun-burnt complexion, how lank
and bony the sturdy form, how listless and wasted the hands. Then arose, bursting within him,
the devoted generosity of the French nature, which would even accept sin and ruin for self,
that so the friend may be saved; and after all, had he not gone to mass out of mere curiosity?--did
he not believe that there was salvation in the Gallican Church? Was it not possible that, with
Philip free to tell his story at home, his own deliverance might come before he should be irrevocably
committed to Madame de Selinville? If Eustacie were living, her claims must overthrow that
which her rival was forcing upon him at her own peril. Nay, how else could he obtain tidings
of her? And for those at home, did they deserve that he should sacrifice all, Philip included,
for their sake? The thoughts, long floating round his brain, now surged upon him in one flood,
and seemed to overwhelm in those moments of confusion all his powers of calling up the other
side of the argument; he only had an instinct remaining that it would be a lie to God and man
alike. 'God help me!' he sighed to himself; and there was sufficient consideration and perplexity
expressed in his countenance to cause the Chevalier to feel his cause almost gained; and rising
eagerly, with tears in his eyes, he exclaimed, 'Embrace me, my dear, dear son! The thing is
done! Oh! what peace, what joy!'

The instinct of recoil came stronger now. He stepped back with folded arms, saying again, 'God
help me! God forbid that I should be a traitor!'

'My son, hear me; these are but easily removed points of honour,' began the Chevalier; but
at that moment Philip suddenly started from, or in his slumber, leapt on his feet, and called
out, 'Avaunt, Satan!' then opened his eyes, and looked, as if barely recalling where he was.

'Philip!' exclaimed Berenger, 'did you hear?'

'I--I don't know,' he said, half-bewildered. 'Was I dreaming that the fiend was parleying with
us in the voice of M. le Chevalier there to sell our souls for one hour of home?'

He spoke English, but Berenger replied in French.

'You were not wrong, Philip. Sir, he dreamt that the devil was tempting me in your voice while
you were promising me his liberty on my fulfilling your first condition.'

'What?' said Philip, now fully awake, and gathering the state of things, as he remembered the
words that had doubtless been the cause of his dream. 'And if you did, Berenger, I give you
warning they should never see me at home. What! could I show my face there with such tidings?
No! I should go straight to La Noue, or to the Low Countries, and kill every Papist I could
for having debauched you!'

'Hush! hush! Philip,' said Berenger; 'I could not break my faith to Heaven or my wife even
for your sake, and my cousin sees how little beholden you would be to me for so doing. With
your leave, Monsieur, we will retire.'

The Chevalier detained Berenger for a moment to whisper, 'What I see is so noble a heart that
I know you cannot sacrifice him to your punctilio.'

Philip was so angry with Berenger, so excited, and so determined to show that nothing ailed
him, that for a short time he was roused, and seemed to be recovering; but in a few days he
flagged again, only, if possible with more gruffness, moodiness, and pertinacity in not allowing
that anything was amiss. It was the bitterest drop of all in Berenger's cup, when in the end
of January he looked back at what Philip had been only a month before, and saw how he had wasted
away and lost strength; the impulse rather to ruin himself that destroy his brother came with
such force that he could scarcely escape it by his ever-recurring cry for help to withstand
it. And then Diane, in her splendid beauty and withchery, would rise before him, so that he
knew how a relaxation of the lengthened weary effort would make his whole self break its bonds
and go out to her. Dreams of felicity and liberty, and not with Eustacie, would even come over
him, and he would awaken to disappointment before he came to a sense of relief and thankfulness
that he was still his own. The dislike, distaste, and dread that came so easily in his time
of pain and weakness were less easy to maintain in his full health and forced inactivity. Occupation
of mind and hope seemed the only chance of enabling either of the two to weather this most
dreary desert period; and Berenger, setting his thoughts resolutely to consider what would
be the best means of rousing Philip, decided at length that any endeavour to escape, however
arduous and desperate, would be better than his present apathetic languor, even if it led to
nothing. After the first examination of their prison, Berenger had had no thought of escape;
he was then still weak and unenterprising. He had for many months lived in hopes of interference
from home; and, besides, the likelihood that so English a party as his own would be quickly
pursued and recaptured, where they did not know their road and had no passports, had deterred
him lest should fall into still straiter imprisonment. But he had since gained, in the course
of his rides, and by observation from the top of the tower, a much fuller knowledge of the
country. He knew the way to the grange du Temple, and to the chief towns in the neighbourhood.
Philip and Humfrey had both lost something of their intensely national look and speech, and,
moreover, was having broken out again, there was hope of falling in with Huguenot partisans
even nearer that at La Rochelle. But whether successful or not, some enterprise was absolutely
needed to save Philip from his despondent apathy; and Berenger, who in these eighteen months
had grown into the strength and vigour of manhood, felt as if he had force and power for almost
any effort save this hopeless waiting.

He held council with Humfrey, who suggested that it might be well to examine the vaults below
the keep. He had a few days before, while going after some of the firewood stored below the
ground-floor chamber, observed a door, locked, but with such rusty iron hinges that they might
possibly yield to vigorous efforts with a stone; and who could tell where the underground passages
might come out?

Berenger eagerly seized the idea. Philip's mood of contradiction prompted him to pronounce
it useless folly, and he vouchsafed no interest in the arrangements for securing light, by
selecting all the bits of firewood fittest for torches, and saving all the oil possible from
the two lamps they were allowed. The chief difficulty was that Guibert was not trusted, so
that all had to be done out of his sight; and on the first day Berenger was obliged to make
the exploration alone, since Humfrey was forced to engross Guibert in some occupation out of
sight, and Philip had refused to have anything to do with it, or be like a rat routing in the
corners of his trap.

However, Berenger had only just ascertained that the ironwork was so entirely rusted away as
to offer no impediment, when Philip came languidly roaming into the cellar, saying, 'Here!
I'll hold the torch! You'll be losing yourself in this wolf's mouth of a place if you go alone.'

The investigation justified Philip's predictions of its uselessness. Nothing was detected but
rats, and vaults, and cobwebs; it was cold, earthy, and damp; and when they thought they must
have penetrated far beyond the precincts of the keep, they heard Humfrey's voice close to them,
warning them that it was nearly dinner-time.

The next day brought them a more promising discovery, namely of a long straight passage, with
a gleam of light at the end of it; and this for the first time excited Philip's interest or
curiosity. He would have hastened along it at once, but for the warning summons from Humfrey;
and in the excitement of even this grain of interest, he ate more heartily at supper than he
had done for weeks, and was afterwards more eager to prove to Berenger that night was the best
time to pursue their researches.

And Berenger, when convinced that Guibert was sound asleep, thought so too, and accompanied
by Humfrey, they descended into the passage. The light, of course, was no longer visible, but
the form of the crypt, through which they now passed, was less antique than that under the
keep, and it was plain they were beneath a later portion of the Castle. The gallery concluded
in a wall, with a small barred, unglazed window, perfectly dark, so that Berenger, who alone
could reach to the bottom of it, could not uses where it looked out.

'We must return by daylight; then, maybe, we may judge,' sighed Philip.

'Hark!' exclaimed Berenger.

'Rats,' said Philip.

'No--listen--a voice! Take care!' he added, in a lower tone, 'we may be close on some of the
servants.'

But, much nearer than he expected, a voice on his right hand demanded, 'Does any good Christian
hear me?'

'Who is there?' exclaimed Philip.

'Ah! good sir, do I hear the voice of a companion in misery? Or, if you be free, would you
but send tidings to my poor father?'

'It is a Norman accent!' cried Berenger. 'Ah! ah! can it be poor Landry Osbert?'

'I am--I am that wretch. Oh, would that M. le Baron could know!'

'My dear, faithful foster-brother! They deceived me,' cried Berenger, in great agitation, as
an absolute howl came from the other side of the wall: 'M. le Baron come to this! Woe worth
the day!' and Berenger with difficulty mitigated his affectionate servant's lamentations enough
to learn from him how he had been seized almost at the gates of Bellaise, closely interrogated,
deprived of the letter to Madame la Baronne, and thrown into this dungeon. The Chevalier. Not
an unmerciful man, according to the time, had probably meant to release him as soon as the
marriage between his son and niece should have rendered it superfluous to detain this witness
to Berenger's existence. There, then, the poor fellow had lain for three years, and his work
during this weary time had been the scraping with a potsherd at the stone of his wall, and
his pertinacious perseverance had succeeded in forming a hole just large enough to enable him
to see the light of the torch carried by the gentlemen. On his side, he said, there was nothing
but a strong iron door, and a heavily-barred window, looking, like that in the passage, into
the fosse within the walled garden; but, on the other hand, if he could enlarge his hole sufficiently
to creep through it, he could escape with them in case of their finding a subterranean outlet.
The opening within his cell was, of course, much larger than the very small space he had made
by loosening a stone towards the passage, but he was obliged always to build up each side of
his burrow at the hours of his jailer's visit, lest his work should be detected, and to stamp
the rubbish into his floor. But while they talked, Humfrey and Philip, with their knives, scraped
so diligently that two more stones could be displaced; and, looking down the widening hole
through the prodigious mass of wall, they could see a ghastly, ragged, long-bearded scarecrow,
with an almost piteous expression of joy on his face, at once again seeing familiar faces.
And when, at his earnest entreaty, Berenger stood so as to allow his countenance to be as visible
as the torch could make it through the 'wall's-hole,' the vault echoed with the poor fellow's
delighted cry. 'I am happy! M. le Baron is himself again. The assassin's cruel work is gone!
Ah! thanks to the saints! Blessed be St. Lucie, it was not in vain that I entreated her!'

The torches were, however, waxing so low that the sight could not long be afforded poor Osbert;
and, with a promise to return to him next day, the party returned to the upper air, where they
warmed themselves over the fire, and held council over measures for the present relief of the
captive. Berenger grieved that he had given him up so entirely for lost as to have made no
exertions on his behalf, and declared his resolution of entreating that he might be allowed
to enjoy comparative comfort with them in the keep. It was a risk, but the Chevalier might
fairly suppose that the knowledge of Osbert's situation had oozed out through the servants,
and gratitude and humanity alike impelled Berenger to run some risk for his foster-brother's
sake. He was greatly touched at the poor fellow's devotion, and somewhat amused, though with
an almost tearful smile at the joy with which he had proclaimed--what Berenger was quite unaware
of, since the keep furnished no mirrors--the disappearance of his scars. ''Tis even so,' said
Philip, 'though I never heeded it. You are as white from crown to beard as one of the statues
at Paris; but the great red gash is a mere seam, save when yon old Satan angers you, and then
it blushes for all the rest of your face.'

'And the cheek-wound is hidden, I suppose,' said Berenger, feeling under the long fair moustache
and the beard, which was developing into respectable proportions.

'Hidden? ay, entirely. No one would think your bald crown had only twenty-one years over it;
but you are a personable fellow still, quite enough to please Daphne,' said Philip.

'Pshaw!' replied Berenger, pleased nevertheless to hear the shadow of a jest again from Philip.

It was quite true. These months of quiescence--enforced though they were--had given his health
and constitution time to rally after the terrible shock they had sustained. The severe bleedings
had, indeed, rendered his complexion perfectly colourless; but there was something in this,
as well as in the height which the loss of hair gave his brow, which, added to the depth and
loftiness of countenance that this long period of patience and resolution had impressed on
his naturally fine features, without taking away that open candour that had first attracted
Diane when he was a rosy lad. His frame had strengthened at the same time, and assumed the
proportions of manhood; so that, instead of being the overgrown maypole that Narcisse used
to sneer at, he was now broad-shouldered and robust, exceedingly powerful, and so well made
that his height, upwards of six feet, was scarcely observed, except by comparison with the
rest of the world.

And his character had not stood still. He had first come to Paris a good, honest, docile, though
high-spirited boy: and though manly affections, cares, and sorrows had been thrust on him,
he had met them like the boy that he was, hardly conscious how deep they went. Then had come
the long dream of physical suffering, with only one thought pertinaciously held throughout--that
of constancy to his lost wife; and from this he had only thoroughly wakened in his captivity,
the resolution still holding fast, but with more of reflection and principle, less of mere
instinct, than when his powers were lost or distracted in the effort of constant endurance
of pain and weakness. The charge of Philip, the endeavour both of educating him and keeping
up his spirits, as well as the controversy with Pere Bonami, had been no insignificant parts
of the discipline of these months; and, little as the Chevalier had intended it, he had trained
his young kinsman into a far more substantial and perilous adversary, both in body and mind,
than when he had caged him in his castle of the Blackbird's Nest.

CHAPTER XXXVIII. What makes you look so ill, so haggard?' cried Diane de Selinville, when summoned
the next morning to meet her father in the parlour of the convent.

'Ah, child! see here. Your brother will have us make an end of it. He has found her.'

'Eustacie! Ah, and where?'

'That he will not say, but see here. This is all billet tells me: "The hare who has doubled
so long is traced to her form. My dogs are on her, and in a week's time she will be ours. I
request you, sir, to send me a good purse of crowns to reward my huntsmen; and in the meantime--one
way or the other--that pet of my sister's must be disposed of. Kept too long, these beasts
always become savage. Either let him be presented to the royal menagerie, or there is a still
surer way."'

'And that is all he says!' exclaimed Diane.

'All! He was always cautions. He mentions no names. And now, child, what is to be done? To
give him up to the King is, at the best, life-long imprisonment, yet, if he were still here
when my son returns--Alas! alas! child, I have been ruined body and soul between you! How could
you make me send after and imprison him? It was a mere assassination!' and the old man beat
his head with grief and perplexity.

'Father!' cried Diane, tearfully, 'I cannot see you thus. We meant it for the best. We shall
yet save him.'

'Save him! Ah, daughter, I tossed all night long thinking how to save him, so strong, so noble,
so firm, so patient, so good even to the old man who has destroyed his hope--his life! Ah!
I have thought till my brain whirls.'

'Poor father! I knew you would love him,' said Diane, tenderly. 'Ah! we will save him yet.
He shall be the best of sons to you. Look, it is only to tell him that she whom he calls his
wife is already in my brother's hands, wedded to him.'

'Daughter,'--and he pushed back his gray hair with a weary distressed gesture,--'I am tired
of wiles; I am old; I can carry them out no longer.'

'But this is very simple; it may already be true--at least it will soon be true. Only tell
him that she is my brother's wife. Then will his generosity awaken, then will he see that to
persist in the validity of his marriage would be misery, dishonour to her, then----'

'Child, you know not how hard he is in his sense of right. Even for his brother's sake he would
not give way an inch, and the boy was as obstinate as he!'

'Ah! but this comes nearer. He will be stung; his generosity will be piqued. He will see that
the kindest thing he can do will be to nullify his claim, and the child----'

The Chevalier groaned, struck his brow with his fist, and muttered, 'That will concern no one--that
has been provided for. Ah! ah! children, if I lose my own soul for you, you----'

'Father, my sweet father, say not these cruel things. Did not the Queen's confessor tell us
that all means were lawful that brought a soul to the Church? and here are two.'

'Two! Why, the youth's heresy is part of his point of honour. Child, child, the two will be
murdered in my very house, and the guilt will be on my soul.'

'No, father! We will--we will save him. See, only tell him this.'

'This--what? My brain is confused. I have thought long--long.'

'Only this, father, dear father. You shall not be tormented any more, if only you will tell
him that my brother has made Eustacie his wife, then will I do all the rest.'

Diane coaxed, soothed, and encouraged her father by her caresses, till he mounted his mule
to return to the castle at dinner-time, and she promised to come early in the afternoon to
follow up the stroke he was to give. She had never seen him falter before,--he had followed
out his policy with a clear head and unsparing hand,--but now that Berenger's character was
better known to him, and the crisis long delayed had come so suddenly before his eyes, his
whole powers seemed to reel under the alternative.

The dinner-bell clanged as he arrived at the castle, and the prisoners were marched into the
hall, both intent upon making their request on Osbert's behalf, and therefore as impatient
for the conclusion of the meal, and the absence of the servants, as was their host. His hands
trembled so much that Berenger was obliged to carve for him; he made the merest feint of eating;
and now and then raised his hand to his head as if to bring back scattered ideas.

The last servant quitted the room, when Berenger perceived that the old man was hardly in a
state to attend to his request, and yet the miserable frost-bitten state of poor Landry seemed
to compel him to speak.

'Sir,' he began, 'you could do me a great kindness.'

The Chevalier looked up at him with glassy eyes.

'My son,' he said, with an effort, 'I also had something to say. Ah! let me think. I have had
enough. Call my daughter,' he added, feeling helplessly with his hands, so that Berenger started
up in alarm, and received him in his arms just in time to prevent his sinking to the floor
senseless.

'It is a stroke,' exclaimed Berenger. 'Call, Phil! Send the gendarmes.'

The gendarmes might be used to the sight of death of their own causing, but they had a horror
of that which came by Nature's hand. The purple face and loud gasps of the stricken man terrified
them out of their senses. 'C'est un coup,' was the cry, and they went clattering off to the
servants. These, all men but one old crone, came in a mass to the door, looked in, beheld their
master rigid and prostrate on the floor, supported by the prisoner, and with fresh shrieks
about 'Mesdames! a priest! a doctor!' away they rushed. The two brothers were not in much less
consternation, only they retained their senses. Berenger loosened the ruff and doublet, and
bade Philip practice that art of letting blood which he had learnt for his benefit. When Madame
de Selinville and her aunt, with their escort, having been met half-way from Bellaise, arrived
sooner than could have been expected, they found every door open from hall to entrance gateway,
not a person keeping watch, and the old man lying deathlike upon cushions in the hall, Philip
bandaging his arm, and Berenger rubbing his temples with wine and the hottest spices on the
table. 'He is better--he is alive,' said Berenger, as they entered; and as both ladies would
have fallen on him with shrieks and sobs, he bade them listen, assured them that the only chance
of life was in immediate care, and entreated that bedding might be brought down, and strong
essences fetched to apply to the nose and temples. They obeyed, and the sister infirmarer had
arrived from the convent, he had opened his eyes, and, as he saw Berenger, tried to murmur
something that sounded like 'Mon fils.'

'He lives!--he speaks!--he can receive the sacraments!' was the immediate exclamation; and
as preparations began to be made, the brothers saw that their presence was no longer needed,
and returned to their own tower.

'So, sir,' said the gendarme sergeant, as they walked down the passage, 'you did not seize
the moment for escape.'

'I never thought of it,' said Berenger.

'I hope, sir, you will not be the worse for it,' said the sergeant. 'An honourable gentleman
you have ever proved yourself to me, and I will bear testimony that you did the poor old gentleman
no hurt; but nobles will have it their own way, and pay little heed to a poor soldier.'

'What do you mean, friend?'

'Why, you see, sir, it is unlucky that you two happened to be alone with M. le Chevalier. No
one can tell what may be said when they seek an occasion against a person.'

To the brothers, however, this suggestion sounded so horrible and unnatural, that they threw
it from them. They applied themselves at every moment possible to enlarging Osbert' hole, and
seeking an outlet from the dungeon; but this they had not been able to discover, and it was
necessary to be constantly on their guard in visiting the vaults, lest their absence from their
apartment should be detected. They believed that if Narcisse arrived at the castle, they should
find in him a far less gentle jailer than the poor old man, for whose state their kindly young
hearts could not but grieve.

They heard that he had recovered consciousness enough to have made a sort of confession; and
Pere Bonami brought them his formal request, as a dying man, for their pardon for all the injuries
he had done them; but his speech was too much affected for any specification of what these
were. The first thing they heard in early morning was that, in the course of the night, he
had breathed his last; and all day the bells of all the churches round were answering one another
with the slow, swinging, melancholy notes of the knell.

In the early twilight, Pere Bonami brought a message that Madame de Selinville requested M.
le Baron to come and speak with her, and he was accordingly conducted, with the gendarme behind
him, to a small chamber opening into the hall--the same where the incantations of the Italian
pedlar had been played off before Philip and Diane. The gendarme remained outside the door
by which they entered the little dark room, only lighted by one little lamp.

'Here, daughter,' said the priest, 'is your cousin. He can answer the question you have so
much at heart;' and with these words Pere Bonami passed beneath the black curtain that covered
the entrance into the hall, admitting as he raised it for a moment a floor of pure light from
the wax tapers, and allowing the cadence of the chanting of the priests to fall on the ear.
At first Berenger was scarcely able to discern the pale face that looked as if tears were all
dried up, and even before his eyes had clearly perceived her in the gloom, she was standing
before him with clasped hands, demanding, in a hoarse, breathless whisper, 'Had he said anything
to you?'

'Anything? No, cousin,' said Berenger, in a kind tone. 'He had seemed suffering and oppressed
all dinner-time, and when the servants left us, he murmured a few confused words, then sank.'

'Ah, ah, he spoke it not! Thank Heaven! Ah! it is a load gone. Then neither will I speak it,'
sighed Diane, half aloud. 'Ah! cousin, he loved you.'

'He often was kind to us,' said Berenger, impelled to speak as tenderly as he could of the
enemy, who had certainly tortured him, but as if he loved him.

'He bade us save you,' said Diane, her eyes shining with strange wild light in the gloom. 'He
laid it on my aunt and me to save you; you must let us. It must be done before my brother comes,'
she added, in hurried accents. 'The messengers are gone; he may be here any moment. He must
find you in the chapel--as--as my betrothed!'

'And you sent for me here to tempt me--close to such a chamber as that?' demanded Berenger,
his gentleness becoming sternness, as much with his own worse self as with her.

'Listen. Ah! it is the only way. Listen, cousin. Do you know what killed my father? It was
my brother's letter saying things must be brought to an end: either you must be given up to
the King, or worse--worse. And now, without him to stand between you and my brother, you are
lost. Oh! take pity on his poor soul that has left his body, and bring not you blood on his head.'

'Nay,' said Berenger, 'if he repented, the after consequences to me will have no effect on
him now.'

'Have pity then on yourself--on your brother.'

'I have,' said Berenger. 'He had rather die with me than see me a traitor.'

'And least of all,' she exclaimed, with choking grief, 'have you compassion on me!--on me who
have lost the only one who felt for me--on me who have loved you with every fibre of my heart--on
me who have lived on the music of your hardest, coldest word--on me who would lay my life,
my honour, in the dust for one grateful glance from you--and whom you condemn to the anguish
of--your death! Aye, and for what? For the mere shadow of a little girl, who had no force to
love you, or whom you know nothing--nothing! Oh! are you a crystal rock or are you a man? See,
I kneel to you to save yourself and me.'

There were hot tears dropping from Berenger's eyes as he caught Diane's hand, and held it forcibly
to prevent her thus abasing herself. Her wild words and gestures thrilled him in every pulse
and wrung his heart, and it was with a stifled, agitated voice that he said--

'God help you and me both, Diane! To do what you ask would--would be no saving of either. Nay,
if you will kneel,' as she struggled with him, 'let it be to Him who alone can bring us through;'
and releasing her hand, he dropped on his knees by her side, and covered his face with his
hands, in an earnest supplication that the spirit of resistance which he almost felt slipping
from him might be renewed. The action hushed and silenced her, and as he rose he spoke no other
word, but silently drew back so much of the curtain that he could see into the hall, where
the dead man still lay uncoffined upon the bed where his own hands had laid him, and the low,
sweet requiem of kneeling priests floated round him. Rest, rest, and calm they breathed into
one sorely tried living soul, and the perturbed heart was quelled by the sense how short the
passage was to the world where captivity and longing would be ended. He beckoned to Pere Bonami
to return to Diane, and then, protected by his presence from any further demonstrations, kissed
her hand and left her.

He told Philip as little as possible of this interview, but his brother remarked how much time
he spent over the Psalms that evening.

The next day the brothers saw from their upper winder the arrival of Narcisse, or, as he had
called himself for the last three years, the Marquis de Nid-de-Merle, with many attendant gentlemen,
and a band of fifty or sixty gendarmes. The court was filled with their horses, and rang with
their calls for refreshment. And the captives judged it wise to remain in their upper room
incase they should be called for.

They were proved to have been wise in so doing; for about an hour after their arrival there
was a great clanging of steel boots, and Narcisse de Ribaumont, followed by a portly, heavily-armed
gentleman, wearing a scarf of office, by two of the servants, and by two gendarmes, entered
the room. It was the first time the cousins had met since le baiser d'Eutacie had been hissed
into Berenger's ear. Narcisse looked older, sallower, and more worn than at that time; and
Philip, seeing his enemy for the first time, contrasted him with the stately presence of Berenger,
and felt as if a rat were strangling a noble steed.

Each young man punctiliously removed his hat, and Nid-de-Merle, without deigning further salutation,
addressed his companion. 'Sir, you are here on the part of the King, and to you I deliver up
these prisoners, who, having been detained here on a charge of carrying on a treasonable correspondence,
and protected by my father out of consideration for the family, have requited his goodness
by an attempt to strangle him, which has caused his death.'

Philip actually made a leap of indignation; Berenger, better prepared, said to the officer,
'Sir, I am happy to be placed in charged of a King's servant, who will no doubt see justice
done, and shelter us from the private malice that could alone devise so monstrous an accusation.
We are ready to clear ourselves upon oath over the corpse, and all the household and our own
guards can bear witness.'

'The witnesses are here,' said Narcisse, pointing to the servants, ill-looking men, who immediately
began to depose to having found their master purple-faced and struggling in the hands of the
two young men, who had been left alone with him after dinner.

Berenger felt that there was little use in self-defence. It was a fabrication the more easily
to secure his cousin's purpose of destroying him, and his best hope lay in passing into the
hands of persons who were less directly interested in his ruin. He drew himself up to his full
height, saying, 'If there be justice in France, our innocence will be proved. I demand, sir,
that you examine the abbess, the priest, the steward, the sergeant of gendarmes: they are impartial
witnesses, and will serve the King's justice, if justice be his purpose. Or, if this be but
M. de Nid-de-Merle's way of completing the work he left unfinished four years ago, I am ready.
Only let my brother go free. He is heir to nothing here.'

'Enough, sir. Words against the King's justice will be reckoned against you,' said the officer.
'I shall do myself the honour of attending the funeral the day after to-morrow, and then I
shall convey you to Tours, to answer for this deed at your leisure. Monsieur le Marquis, are
the prisoners secure here, or would you have them garde a vue.'

'No need for that,' said Narcisse, lightly; 'had there been any exit they would have found
it long ago. Your good fellows outside the door keep them safe enough. M. le Baron de Ribaumont,
I have the honour to wish you a good morning.'

Berenger returned his bow with one full of defiance, and the door was again locked upon the
prisoners; while Philip exclaimed, 'The cowardly villain, Berry; is it a hanging matter?'

'Not for noble blood,' said Berenger. 'We are more likely to be brought to no trial, but to
lie prisoners for life;' then, as Philip grew white and shivered with a sick horror, he added
bravely, 'But they shall not have us, Philip. We know the vaults well enough to play at hide
and seek with them there, and even if we find no egress we may hold out till they think us
fled and leave open the doors!'

Philip's face lighted up again, and they did their best by way of preparation, collecting wood
for torches, and putting aside food at their meals. It was a very forlorn hope, but the occupation
it caused was effectual in keeping up Philip's spirits, and saving him from despondency.

CHAPTER XXXIX. THE PEDLAR'S PREDICTION

     But if ne'er so close you wall him,
        Do the best that you may;
     Blind Love, if so you call him,
        Will find out his way.
                      --OLD SONG

