THE SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN BOY

Or

The Camp at Willow Clump Island

by

A. RUSSELL BOND

New York Munn & Co., Publishers 1906

Copyright, 1905, by Munn & Co., New York

Press of The Kalkhoff Company New York

PREFACE

All boys are nature lovers. Nothing appeals to them more than a summer vacation in the woods
where they can escape from the restraints of civilization and live a life of freedom. Now,
it may appear to be a bit of presumption to attempt to advise the boy camper how to spend his
time. Surely the novelty of outdoor life, the fascinating charm of his surroundings, will provide
him plenty of entertainment.

But, after all, a camp generally affords but two major amusements, hunting and fishing. These
have been fully covered by a vast number of books. However, there is another side of camp life,
particularly in a boys' camp, which has been very little dealt with, namely, the exercise of
one's ingenuity in creating out of the limited resources at hand such devices and articles
as will add to one's personal comfort and welfare. It is, therefore, the aim of this book to
suggest certain diversions of this character for the boy camper which, aside from affording
him plenty of physical exercise, will also develop his mental faculties, and above all stimulate
that natural genius which is characteristic of every typical American boy. To this end the
story contains descriptions of a large collection of articles which can be made by any boy
of average intelligence, not only in the camp but at home as well.

The use of a narrative to connect the various incidents marks a departure in this class of
book, and it is believed that the matter will thus be made more realistic and interesting.
In all cases full directions are given for making the various articles. God forbid that I oppose what he commands. It would
also be easy to know it all. There is, therefore, more resources to wait while Braulio willing
and able to join us. Just finished his extraordinary work and not have to go at night the Ministry.
Meanwhile not go tomorrow, which is Sunday. Tomorrow we will lead. I'll get it. Do you accommodate?

-
I have no impatience or eagerness to have fun - said Ines -.

I can well understand Braulio does not want to go alone. We as girls both! ... You seem almost
more younger than me. We are exposed to a thousand frights ... to persecute us ... to disrespect
us ... as the rake the other night.

- You exaggerate ... Count Alhedín not disrespected us. The poor followed us like a fool ... had its
temptations to speak, but after he dared not, and did well. It would have been tomfoolery unforgivable
in person so many bells and run. The truth is that too excited to show off so disgusted, scornful
and invulnerable. My daughter, you gave sight.

- Sister - Ines replied with great simplicity and naturalness - do not try to flatter me esteem.
I do not believe. In any case it was you, not I, who Condesito arrow, although jokes leaving
us, which we believe is that neither you nor I arrows. Excited their curiosity so as no one knows us.
As a slacker, he wanted to follow us to pass the time. Such Once the cause of which we follow
for us was not flattering, but offensive, perhaps, the see us alone and so young, he was of
us an idea ...

- You can ... Perhaps we misjudged the top, but do not hesitate, as risky trial and the passenger
was unfavorable. It does not follow who was not expected, as we continued the count. Those hesitations,
those utterly, that shy in person so carefree and bold, born of respect, not contempt. In addition,
a man of the world, understood as he is, no could fall but for a brief moment in such an absurd
hallucination. Look in that mirror - and Beatriz noted one that was hung in front, decorating
the room - and it would be necessary be stupid not to understand
who you are, to think badly of you to see that face.

Doña Beatriz gave it to his sister kisses a dozen of sound, rising
from his seat and embracing.

- How good and how crazy you are! -
Ines said.

Then he added:

- Come, I wish indeed that Count followed us with enthusiasm, but
enthusiasm why what had to be me, not you, who inspired him?

Do you think the Count guessed that you're married?

- Undoubtedly. I could not believe otherwise, seeing me alone with you and keep us women honored.

-
But I have heard that the libertines serve more to married women
and unmarried women - continued Inesita with the terrible frankness
of his childlike innocence.

- It's not a rule.

I, however, to concede that it is.

I still affirm that there is no rule without exception and in this
case, the Count has pursued the spinster.

- And why do you affirm?

-
Because I've seen.

- I saw nothing, for not looking.

- Mirases not
approve.

That modesty, that indifference you, stung the Count.

If you reach look at him you would have followed, but more daring, with less effort.

- Then you, you looked, as you observed so much, how did you not be mean concept of you?

- For married women, when we are not really dumb, we use many styles to look at, and I I looked
as it should.

Inesita opened his eyes and mouth, and shocked, to hear that there were several styles to watch.

Doña
Beatriz, not abandon his idea that the innocence of his sister gave him more money, he began
to think that if this candor bordering on blindness, could harm their plans. Something seemed desirable
and when not to unleash the band, loosen it a bit. It was time to start to Inesita in the simplest
mysteries of this rogue world.

Moved by this thought, Beatriz said:

- Yes, my daughter, there are many styles to watch.

- Okay, sister, and I understand it - said Ines -. Although I'm pretty stupid and ignorant all,
because the people I've spent my life sewing, playing with dolls,
taking care our old tutor and fixing the small altar, where San Antonio
was the Christ Child in the arms, while you were reading, studies
and conversations, still reaches me that look in different ways: for
example, with affection and indifference.

- Yes.

- I do not understand
is why the wives know that, and do not know why single women.

- For
single women should not know, because if they do, they should pretend
to ignore it, and because they lose a lot if you look through art,
not to be so wonderful to look at art that even the most cunning you
note.

- And tell me, sister, do not it could be that, without reflection,
and by virtue of that instinct, more and less fallible inspired reflection,
looked silly sometimes a single as well or better married to the most
skilled?

- Everything is possible.

Ingenuity can do everything.

I, however, to tell you the three major pitfalls they may encounter
if you try to look at men.

First obstacle: that you be the eyes behind those who look, which is surrender, surrender and
feet tied and hands, making love to warm you if you breathe in, or profane and ridicule and mock
Your love if you do not apply.

Second obstacle: that look like shyness or distrust amazed and surly, and risk a silly pass
soda or not so. And the third obstacle, which possesses look at the science and other sciences
that presuppose the look, failed to conceal and ensure this wisdom,
and you accused and zahieran of lizard, of Lycurgus, the brash and
free and sick known for married.

- I think, Beatrice, in order to
avoid these pitfalls it is best to let go of the impulse.

- Oh, my
daughter!

No phrase meaningless. According Braulio, who read many tomes in leisure, at least as mankind has
twelve thousand years of civilization. Where will become of the legitimate and natural pure
impulse, after the fuss of beliefs, laws, doctrines, customs, habits, fashions and social conventions?
Take a Greyhound to your natural momentum. Become a savage, or seek him among the wild if you
have it. In addition, the natural impulse, the impulse of mere nature, is sinful and wrong. I miss
a girl, so good Christian as you are, be wary of natural impulse. Well good nature was then original
sin, for us to trust it.

- Women, I was wrong, I explained wrong.

What I meant was that it should get carried away, to look like for
all of my Christian feelings, that my natural impulse, as amended
and refined by the moral and religious education, thank God, I have
received.

- But look here, innocent!

What brings the doctrine of the Father Ripalda on these interesting details? Not anticipated
and left you in the dark. Our tutor, in the long sermons to us missed, never touched this point.
How did they calculate the Father and our guardian Ripalda were going to stroll in the Buen
Retiro, and you would be chased by a Condesito, handsome, elegant, noble, with car and drives more
than 15,000 income? In this complicated case involving thousand elements alien to the moral theology.
And what is the car, the elegance, the county, income of 15,000, the concerts of the Buen
Retiro and countless other circumstances, nothing have to do with nature are on the summit of it,
can and should be regarded as supernatural, because they are added
and superimposed on the natural and the culture of the century.

Laughter and good humor with which Dona Beatriz said all this a bit
puzzled Inesita.

Also did not know whether to cast it as a joke or replicate seriously. Resolvióse the end of the
second, and said:

- Sister, whether natural or supernatural circumstances, persist in believing safer any device
and study this I call my natural impulse. Sincerity and honesty is always what counts brings up the
practical and useful. I deny that science or the art of looking. For anything you need. A girl
must look honest and modest every lover of good breeding and advise, not to appear rude, in
general affect he feels or should feel for all others, and with due caution, that the gallant not misinterpret
his benevolence and the promise happy.

If you pass the handsome heartthrob indifferent a handsome lover, and love inspire the girl the
convenient way of looking at who you love, without you drop in to learn it by art.

- Hey, Ines - "Dona Beatriz -, no joke I'm talking about, but with great seriousness in the
background. You'd be right in what you say if there were no transition period between being
in love and not to be. You yourself have said. If the suitor goes from indifferent to love. Well,
for this step are the rules and art. Who is unrequited loves and really, look at him as want.
Love itself will teach you how to look at him but my daughter, is not that; this is the one who
you love and yet still loves you.

- A look at like that neighbor it.

- There's your mistake, Ines. You put no middle ground between indifference and love. That jump
itself is unnatural, dangerous and improbable. Nobody goes, fortunately, indifference to love
without degrees, procedures and terms means. For not so! Daughter, love is little Apoc. From
indifference, or rather, from the general affection to all others at that unique feeling called
love, there is a sliding scale that goes up point point and that is the period of flirtation.
Without such a flirt, without leaving perched grades or steps of
the aforementioned scale, no one ever comes to the temple of the true
love, no glory reaches its favor gift.

- How is that?

"So I may not love or be loved without flirting never before?

-
I do not deny the possibility, but would be difficult, extraordinary.

In novels, poetry only, see, for example, a man who sees passing in the street to a lady, and
pataplum ... suddenly ... català died of love for her. She also looks ... and goodbye rest
and trial, not knowing if a rogue or a good man, a fool or a wise, rich or poor, and we love. The
rationale is this: the rational is that people are treated, talk, know, are deemed, fans go to
each other, until after you love. All this period is what I call flirting. See you if the flirting
is necessary and useful. No love it there. If not please with a face that guests dismiss, ignore
anyone, no look at anyone but as a neighbor while not feel love, and love or ever will come to
your soul or you infuse it with another human soul ever.

Flirting is thus a rite, a cult a prayer, an evocation of love to
come.

I say all this to stop you prudery and go be something flirty. And I wish that you are with distinction
and smoothness without impeachment of any kind, with the composure and modesty required, and keeping
that wonderful candor, that aspect of pure innocence that God has placed in your gesture and
in your face, so I recommend the divine art.

- And with this art, what will I earn?

- Earn you love. We go to a particular case. Let's talk about the other night Condesito. I know
that does not love him. Thanks be to God that it has not done so flammable that you put to
love a man only to see him pass. There is no presumption that he is hopelessly love you. Neither
do men fall in love suddenly. What is likely, almost certainly, Condesito is that I found beautiful,
graceful and elegant, have imagined that you are good and you are well educated, in which no mistakes,
and I admire and attracted to you curious sympathy and other sinful desires and thoughts. I
grant, moreover, that the young Count, with its arrogance, which is great, is promised triumphs
and victories that make you favor.

Well, this is the foundation of a flirt.

Care not to frighten those sympathies by putting springs stick side; matter curb undue expectations
and daring is necessary to tame with due respect at all irreverent purpose, and should finally
attract the Condesito, to see if he loves you and you love him.

- But I do not love him.

- I know you dont love him. Did not I say? He loves you or not. But nobody ever gonna love
you no you love anyone if you keep going? How did you go to if you love as if it were bony
Croaker?

Inesita almost felt defeated. Her sister continued to make very wise and deep reflection, the
girl came to hallucinate and imagine that flirtation, within certain
limits, was a duty, which was missing.

Inesita promised, then follow the advice of her sister far, no violence,
he could, and be a little flirty, with dignity and would learn the
art.

Doña Beatriz certainly gave the following night at the Buen Retiro,
would find the little Count, he would be persecuted and have occasion
to show his ability Inesita, untested for flirtation.

According to Beatriz, all paper Inesita the next night was just saying with the eyes, lazy style
and clear, however, with such art that seem thoughtless phrase and spontaneous, with impeccable
purity and simplicity of intention and without promising anything
to pass friend: "Me you nice, although I deplore it as much as you
are a fool.

I glad to treat you, but for that you want it to be less vain and more restrained, and are then
presented as the good society requires and so it does not crash. "

Inesita argued that his eyes could not reel off as long rant. Doña Beatriz, On the contrary,
claimed that with the eyes said it all without difficulty.

This question was, when knocked Don Braulio, and then entered the room, interrupting the two
sisters.

The man was as he had described the Earl of Alhedín: skinny, bald, small body not pretty, and
though he was only forty-five, seemed to have ten more, because the
work, care and trouble he had aged.

He was dressed in clean and simple. His dark face was wonderful expression of kindness and
intelligence.

His black eyes, only beautiful thing in him, every eye sparkled with bright light and sharp. His
cheeks sunken cheeks were furrowed with wrinkles, but in your mouth, rather large to small,
had strength and spirit, and his thin lips were folded gracefully, providing entertainment to all appearance
and showing two rows of white teeth, healthy and well placed. Don's nose Braulio, though not deformed,
was one if not acaballo or parrot's beak.

Don Braulio had been very tired, and the few words she spoke to women felt all retiring to bed.

The
first one left the room was Dona Beatriz.

Don Braulio was a moment alone with Ines. There came to her and said quietly:

- Agnes, I have to comply with a commission that you have given me.

Take this letter, save and read it to stop and rest. Which requires
written not talk to anyone about the letter, but me if you want.

So your sister has to be a secret. Do you understand? There are also another rare condition.
The answer you give no support to you within a month and begs the same time does not slow to
give it more than four months.

Don Braulio, that said, put the letter in the hands of Ines, and went
where his wife had gone, without waiting to read the letter Inesita
or do him any questions about it.

Seemed Don Braulio also wanted Inesita meditate calmly, before speaking of the important business
letter undoubtedly was.

V

Just looked Inesita was alone in the address of the card, and without emotion, almost a curiosity,
at least perceptible, would open it and read it, when he appeared on the scene a new character,
did the girl keep it rushed the letter in his pocket.

This new character was the mistress Teresa. Love does not ever called him because he had been
breeding but because he had been housekeeper of the parish priest. Was already closer to the
sixties of fifty years, and had looked with great care and affection of Beatrice and Agnes
from they had been orphaned. A much loved them both, but as it had looked Inesita from more
child, and as Inesita was single, had greater familiarity with it
confidence.

By a strange hallucination, more often than we think, the housekeeper,
as if the years had passed in vain, or had not happened, did not see
the woman Inesita already formed, but the girl spoiled little girl
who had both.

Still, therefore, and treating it as mimándola Inesita had five or six years. Their actions
Inesita regarding resented this hallucination, but in his speeches, when he spoke with it, there was
a funny combination of mimes and innocence with which it comes to creatures, and the efforts
of wit and discretion studied with ignorant people and crude attempt
to catch up with those of whose knowledge and intelligence have made
the concept better. The sheets we had were all rather worn and some were
badly torn, so that we had to make our sails of double thickness, sewing patches over the weak
spots. A broad hem was turned down at each end, and heavy tape was sewed on, leaving loops
as before, to attach them to the spars. This reduced the length of our sail to seven feet three
inches. The end spars were spaced apart by a light pole about ten feet long, to which they
were tied at the points of intersection. The spars were also braced by halyards looped over
the ends of the pole in the manner indicated in the drawing (Fig. 7). It took a crew of two
boys to manipulate this sail. In use, the pole of the rig was carried on the shoulders, and
the sail was guided by means of ropes attached to the lower corners of the vertical spars.
These ropes in nautical language are called "sheets." The boy at the rear was the pilot and
did the steering, because his position behind the sail gave him an unobstructed view in all
directions. When changing tack the sail was lifted overhead to the other side of the crew.

THE SINGLE SWEDISH SAIL.

Another sail of similar form, but for use of one boy only, is shown in Fig. 10. This had a
height of six and one-half feet at the forward end and three feet at the rear; and its length
was five feet. This sail was very satisfactory in light winds, owing to its great area. In
use we found that it was very important to keep the lower edge against the leg, as indicated
by the arrow. The rig was manipulated just like the double Swedish sail, lifting it over the
head when it was desired to change tack.

THE LANTEEN SAIL.

The lanteen sail we found to be a very good rig. It was made in the form of a triangle, measuring
eight feet on one side, seven and one-half feet on another side and six and one-half feet on
the third. The six and one-half foot side was secured to a boom, and the seven and one-half
foot side to a yard. The yard and boom were hinged together by a leather strap nailed on as
shown in Fig. 12, and to this hinge a rope was attached, which served as a sheet. These spars
were secured to a mast erected perpendicularly to the boom and intersecting the yard a little
above its center. We had had some trouble with the first sails we made in keeping the base
of the sail against the body, and to overcome this difficulty Bill proposed tying the bottom
of the mast to the leg. This was a rather risky thing to do, as we learned later, for in case
of accident it would be difficult to get clear of the sail. It was Reddy who finally solved
the problem by rigging up a step for the mast. It consisted of a leather tag tied to the leg,
and provided with a hole into which the bottom of the mast was fitted. To prevent the mast
from slipping too far into the step the lower portion of it was whittled down, leaving a shoulder
which rested on the leather. Bill later devised another step, which consisted of a wooden block
(Fig. 14) strapped to the leg and formed with a shallow socket to receive the end of the mast.

THE DANISH SAIL.

But the most satisfactory sail we found to be the Danish sail, though it was not until we had
served quite a long apprenticeship and sustained many pretty bad falls that we mastered the
art of manipulating these sails properly. Our ideas on this sail were obtained from a French
illustrated paper which Dutchy Van Syckel picked up in his father's library. This sail was
formed with a topsail so arranged that it could be lowered when the wind was too strong. The
dimensions of the sail as we made it are given in the drawing (Fig. 15). The top of the sail
was lashed to a spar, which was connected by a short stick to another spar tied to the mainsail
about eighteen inches lower down. The sail was strengthened with an extra strip of cloth along
the lower spar, and the tie strings were applied in the usual way. The connecting stick, or
topmast we may call it, was hinged to the lower spar by means of a short piece of leather strap,
which was passed round the spar in the form of a loop and its two ends nailed to the bottom
of the topmast. The topmast extended above the upper spar a short distance, and to this we
fastened the flag which our society had adopted. A couple of strong cords were secured to the
center spar to provide for fastening the sail onto the skater. Tied to the lower corners of
the mainsail were two sticks which were used for guiding the sail when in flight.

The different methods of sailing with this rig are shown in Figs. 17-20. When sailing with
the wind the skater would stand very erect, bending backward in proportion as the wind blew
fresher. By inclining the sail in one direction or the other, the skater could tack to port
or starboard. When moving against the wind by skating in the usual way, the body was bent forward
in such manner that the sail lay horizontal, so that it would not offer a purchase for the wind.

BAT'S WINGS.

One more sail deserves mention. It was Bill's idea, and it came near to ending his career the
first day he tried it. It had no spars at all, but was merely a strip of cloth of somewhat
triangular shape. The upper side was tied to the head, and the two corners to the wrists, while
the lower portion was tied to the ankles. This converted him into a huge white-winged bat.
Bill had to try it at once, even though the rest of the sails were not finished, and a very
comical spectacle he made as he flapped his wings in his endeavors to tack. When the wind was
too strong for him he had merely to drop his arms and thus lower sail. At length he became
tired of holding his arms out at full length, and I got him a stick to put over his shoulders
and rest his arms on. But that stick was Bill's undoing, for coming around a sudden bend in
the canal he caught the full force of the wind, which knocked him flat on his back before he
could disentangle himself from the stick and lower sail. It took us some time to bring him
back to consciousness, and a very scared lot of boys we were for a while. However, the lesson
was a good one, for after that we were very cautious in experimenting with sails that had to
be tied on, such as the Danish rig and the lanteen rig, before Reddy invented the mast step.

It was not until the day after Christmas that the sails were all completed, but then there
was scarcely any wind blowing and we could not attempt the expedition to the island.

CHAPTER III.

SNOW SHOES, SKIS AND SWAMP SHOES.

The next day, Sunday, it began to snow, and we realized that our chance of skating up to Willow
Clump Island was spoiled. All the afternoon it snowed, and the next morning we woke to find
the ground covered to a depth of eight inches and snow still falling. But who ever heard of
a boy complaining because there was snow on the ground? Here were new difficulties to overcome,
new problems to solve, and new sports provided for our amusement. There was no disappointment
shown by any of the members of the S. S. I. E. E. of W. C. I., as they met in the woodshed
immediately after breakfast to discuss proceedings for the day. There seemed to be but one
way of reaching the island, and that was by means of snow shoes. Bill had only a vague idea
of how snow shoes were made.

CHAIR SEAT SNOW SHOE.

The first pair was made from a couple of thin wooden chair seats which we found in the shed.
They proved quite serviceable, being very light and offering a fairly large bearing surface.
The chair seats were trimmed off at each side to make the shoes less clumsy, and a loop of
leather was fastened near the center of each shoe, in which the toe could be slipped. This
shoe possessed the disadvantage of being too flat and of picking up too much snow when used.

BARREL STAVE SNOW SHOE.

Another pair of shoes was made from barrel staves. At first one stave was made to serve for
a shoe, but we found that two staves fastened together with a pair of wooden cleats were much
better. Jack was the proud inventor of these shoes and insisted that they were far more satisfactory
than the elaborate ones which were later devised.

BARREL HOOP SNOW SHOE.

Now that Jack had shown his ingenuity, Fred thought it was his turn to do something, and after
mysteriously disappearing for the space of an hour we saw him suddenly come waddling back to
the shed on a pair of barrel hoops covered with heavy canvas. He had stretched the canvas so
tightly across the hoops that they were bent to an oval shape. It was claimed for these shoes,
and with good reason, that they were not so slippery as the barrel stave shoe, for they permitted
the foot to sink slightly into the snow.

After dinner, Dutchy came back with a book of his father's, a sort of an encyclopedia in which
several different kinds of snow shoes were illustrated. Reddy, whose father owned a sawmill,
volunteered to provide us with strips of hickory from which to make the frames.

THE SIOUX SNOW SHOE.

The Sioux snow shoe was the first type we tackled. Two strips of hickory 4 feet long and 3/4
inch square in section, were bent over a pair of spreaders and securely fastened together at
each end. The spreaders were about 12 inches long and located about 15 inches apart. They were
notched at the ends, as shown in Fig. 26, to receive the side strips, which were not fastened
together until after they had been nailed to the spreaders. We found that the most satisfactory
way of fastening together the ends of the hickory strips was to bolt them together. When the
frame was completed, we began the tedious process of weaving in the filling or web of the snow
shoe. First we cut notches in the edges of the spreaders, spacing these notches an inch apart.
Then we procured several balls of heavy twine at the corner store. Tying one end of the cord
to the right side stick about three inches below the forward spreader, we stretched a strand
down to the notch at the left end of the lower spreader. The strand was drawn taut, and after
making several twists around it the cord was tied to the left side stick three inches above
the spreader. From this point the cord was stretched to the notch at the right end of the upper
spreader, twisted several times and brought back to the starting point. The cord was now wrapped
around the side stick for a space of about an inch, and then carried down to the second notch
on the lower spreader, whence it was woven through the other two strands and tied about the
left side stick about four inches from the spreader. Thus the weaving continued, passing the
cord alternately over and under any cross strands encountered. In order to make the left side
correspond with the right, a separate cord was wound around it, filling up the space between
the strands of the web. The filling above and below the spreaders could not be so methodically
done, but we managed to weave the strands quite neatly with about the same mesh as used at
the center. To facilitate the weaving we improvised a rough needle of a piece of wire. The
latter was bent double to receive the cord which was wedged in between the two arms of the needle.

THE IROQUOIS SHOE.

But the best snow shoe we made was the Iroquois shoe. The frame of this shoe was made of hickory
strips of the same width and thickness as used in the Sioux shoe, but 8 feet long. The strips
were bent in a loop and the ends were bolted together. How to bend the wood without breaking
it seemed a very difficult problem. Wood, we knew, could be easily bent without breaking if
boiled or steamed for a while; but we had nothing large enough in which to boil a strip of
wood 8 feet long. Bill hit upon the plan of wrapping the stick with burlap and then pouring
boiling water on it until it became sufficiently soft to bend easily. An old oats-sack was
cut up into strips and wound onto the hickory sticks for a distance of 18 inches at each side
of the center. We then repaired to the kitchen to do the steaming. The hickory stick was held
over a large dish-pan filled with boiling water, and from this we dipped out the water and
poured it slowly over the burlap wrapping of the stick. After a little of this treatment the
stick was sufficiently steamed to permit of bending to the required shape. The ends were then
firmly secured by means of bolts passed through bolt holes which had been previously drilled.
The frame was completed by fitting the spreader sticks in place, after which it was laid away
to dry. When the frame was perfectly dry we started weaving the web. In this case, however,
instead of cord we used cane strips, which we had bought from a chair caner. This necessitated
drilling holes in the side sticks to receive the cane strips. The web consisted of strands
crossing each other diagonally, as illustrated. Our second pair of Iroquois snow shoes was
made with a web of rawhide which we bought from a hardware store at Millville.

THE AINU SNOW SHOE.

One of the snowshoes described in the book was very much like Fred's barrel-hoop snow shoe
in appearance. According to the description, it was a type used by the Ainus, a peculiar people
living in the cold northern islands of Japan. As the shoe seemed quite simple and rather unique,
we thought we would make one like it. Two hickory strips each 4 feet long were bent to a U-shape
and lashed together, forming an oval about 2 feet 6 inches long by 18 inches wide. The frame
was held to oval shape by tying the sides together. Then the filling was woven in, running
the strands diagonally, as shown in Fig. 32.

We had excellent weather for snow shoes after that snowstorm. A thaw followed by a cold spell
caused a thick crust to form on the snow which would nearly hold us up without the aid of our
snowshoes. We were rather awkward with those shoes for a while, trying to keep them clear of
each other, and we found it particularly hard to turn sharply without causing one shoe to run
foul of the other. But with a little practice we soon felt quite at home on them. In order
to prevent cutting the web with our heels, we found it necessary to wear rubbers.

Our vacation came to an end before we were prepared for the expedition to Willow Clump Island.
But before leaving the subject on snow shoes, two more shoes remain to be described, namely
the Swiss snow shoe and the Norwegian ski. The Swiss shoe was made during the summer and the
ski during the following winter.

THE NORWEGIAN SKI.

The Norwegian ski was made of close-grained wood, 1 inch thick, 3-1/2 inches wide and 6 feet
long. About 18 inches from the forward end the wood was planed down to a thickness of 1/4 of
an inch. This end was placed in the dish-pan of boiling water, and in a short time it was pliable
enough to permit of bending. It was secured in the proper bent position by slipping the toe
end of the shoe between the banisters on the back porch and nailing a cleat back of the heel
end. When the ski was perfectly dry the toe strap was nailed on just back of the balancing
point, and also another strap, to be secured about the ankle. Then a cleat was nailed onto
the ski to fit against the heel of the shoe. In use we found it best to cut a groove in the
bottom of the ski, so as to give us a better grip on the snow in climbing up hills. With the
skis we had to use short poles or "ski sticks" to assist in starting, stopping and steering
when coasting. The ski stick was a bean pole provided with a wooden block near the lower end,
to prevent it from being forced too far through the snow.

THE SWISS SNOW SHOE OR SWAMP SHOE.

The Swiss shoe was made primarily to assist us in exploring some boggy land a short distance
up the river from our island. The original swamp shoes were made from the bottoms of two old
baskets, and they worked so admirably that it was decided to equip the whole society with them.
Uncle Ed, when told about them, informed us that that was the kind of snow shoe used in Switzerland.
Of course, we could not afford to destroy a pair of baskets for each member of the club, and
so we had to weave the shoes from the willows which grew on the island.

CHAPTER IV.

TENT MAKING.

We had a farewell meeting of the society the evening before Bill and I had to return to boarding-school.
At this meeting plans were made for the Easter vacation. Once
inside he dropped back seat, turned the back into place and settle the person in the worst way you
can be human creature outside the rack. In the second floor seethed, shouted, coceaba and snorted
the whole mob of people without a difference class, the same height as the sailor who was fishing
in the bay Murgas or pawn discharge, the reseller Amalia Sena well as those bringing in "fresh
air" to the capital. To that place was called "the pot." The seats were of the same abhorrent pelote
that boxes and the lining should also be of the same color, could not be known with certainty.
Behind of them had, in the old style, a patio for some artisans who, by age, category of teachers
or any other circumstance, repugnant to the pan up and join to the raging mob. From the ceiling
hung a chandelier, curd-shaped glass pieces prismatic, with oil lamps. Later it was replaced by
oil, but I did not manage to see such a reform. Under the stairs leading to the boxes was a
closed niche blind they called "Don Mateo's box." This Don Mateo'll talk later.

Then let it be known that in such a tracery of theater represented
the same dramas and comedies that the Prince and the operas were sung
at La Scala in Milan.

"It seems incredible, eh? Nothing more true. There he first heard the narrator of this story
those famous verses:

If you hear tell the story of a castaway, Since the earth to the love
you miss ...

Certainly that seemed excellent, and the theater a marvel
of luxury and good taste.

    All in the world depends on the imagination.
    Hopefully I had so much alive and as fresh as ever to entertain you
nicely several hours.

It has also seen the Don Juan Tenorio. And their late wheat flour-smeared, his commander filtering
through a door tied with string, his hell in spirit of wine and her apotheosis of paper lining
trunks, was impressed so that he could not sleep that night.

In the room going, more or less, as in the most magnificent theaters of the Court. However, it is generally
attended by more than they show.

We had not reached that higher level of refinement, by which actions must be pleasant contrast
to the place where they run, verbi-grace, chat in the theater laughing in the churches, go
serious and silent, and pathetic in the ride, as, fortunately, in Madrid. I do not know if Sarrió
have already climbed to the present time this step of civilization.

Neither created missing some spirits so lucid that was ahead of his
time and sensed what was to be the theater in time.

Pablito Belinchón was one of them. Had always paid in the company of three or four friends, the proscenium
stage. From there spoke to other older gentlemen, subscribers in the box opposite: they said
jokes, made fun of the treble or bass, and threw candy and paper darts. Certainly the public
of the seats, still outside the refinements of civilization, used to silence them savagely
with a strong chicheo. The most important families were accustomed to enter in those boxes
hypocritical after the curtain opened with the same solemnity that if they entered a theater audience
at the Royal, and cash with a lot more noise. Not can well imagine the horrid crack that gave him back
to be pushed, and that drop seat with the intention of attracting attention.

Say if the family currently makes her grand entrance in one of them and remains stand shedding
coats, while the spectators amused for a moment view of the scene
and fix them, until they feel.

They are the lords of Belinchón. The head of the family, Don Rosendo, is a tall, thin, bent at the
spine, bald pate, small and sunken eyes, large mouth, which was contracting with a smile Mephistopheles,
showing two rows of teeth long and equal, the most complete work of some established dentist
in a few months ago Sarrió. Spend short sideburns and mustache, and represents sixty years
of age. Is known for the first merchant of the town and one of the first importers of cod from
the Cantabrian coast. For many years monopolized entirely Wholesale sales of this article, not
only in the village, but throughout the province, and thanks a result had gained a considerable
fortune. His wife, Dona Paula ... But why is just so long awake in the theater sound to your
appearance? The good lady, listen, is shaky and unclear, it fails to get rid of the coat, and his daughter
Cecilia is required to remove it and tell the ear: - Sit down, Mom! He sits, or rather, is dropped
on the bench and run a stray from the public gaze, while his cheeks Live crimson stain. In
vain attempts fanning herself with verve and calm. Nothing: the more efforts made by turbulent blood
away from the face, put the damn harder to hold that visible.

- Mom, what color you are! - Venturita tells his youngest daughter, struggling not to laugh.

The mother looks at her expression of anxiety.

- Hush, Ventura, silent .-- says Cecilia.

Dona Paula, encouraged by these words, whispers

- This girl enjoys
but in shame.

And he was about to relent and mourn.

Finally, the public got tired of tormenting her with his eyes, smiles and whispers, and set of new
attention on the scene.

Dona Paula Grief was gradually ceasing, but were it remains overnight.

The cause of this incident was the velvet coat trimmed with fur that good lady had set. Whenever
premiered a piece of glossy appearance, was the same. And this for no other reason than because
it was not Mrs. Dona Paula birth. Came from the kind of cigar. Don Rosendo had had an affair
with her being almost a child, the Pablito whom was born. Still, Don Rosendo was five or six
years without marrying or wanting hear about marriage, but visiting her at home and assisting
her with money. Until finally won over by the love child of the mother, and, above all this,
the warnings of his friends, he decided to turn his hand to Paulina. The population learned
of the marriage until after any: that secrecy was kept to carry out. Since then the life of the
cigarette can be divided into several major periods. The first that lasts a year, ranging from marriage
to "mantilla veil." During this time, Belinchón lady was no less or more in public. On Sunday
morning Mass would and shut himself home again. When he decided to wear the mantle above and go
to church eleven, both in the church in the streets of traffic, peppered looks, and discussed
the incident for more than eight days. The second period lasts three years, includes from "the
mantilla veil" to "gloves." View of this ornament in great hands and red of the former cigar was
indescribable excitement in the female element the neighborhood. On the streets, in church,
on visits, asking the ladies greeted: - Have ?...-- you seen Yeah, yeah, I've seen .-- And I began skinning.
Next comes the third period, that lasts four years and ending "silk dress", which gave almost as
much to grumble as gloves, and there was general outrage Sarrió .-- Tell me, Dolores, what's
left and to do? - Doña Dolores lowered his eyes with a gesture of resignation. Finally, fourth,
the longest of all because it lasts six years, over, oh scandalous! 'With hat. " No one can
represent the thrill of wonder that invaded the town of Sarrió when a certain show was presented
late Dona Paula on the promenade with top hat. It was a real riot. The village women crossed
themselves as he passed and pronounced comments aloud to hear that the person concerned.

- Women, look for your life to what Serena wears on the head lighter!

Because it should be noted that the mother of Dona Paula called it
the Serena, and Grandma and a great-grandmother as well.

Needless to add that since the cigarette rose to the rank of lady, even by accident and gave
it its proper name.

The next day, the ladies stumble Sarrió on the street, finding no words with which to express their
horror, were given for content with raising his eyes to heaven, waving arms convulsively,
and pass by muttering: "Hat!"

Before that bold stroke that has no partner, but with some heroes of old, Hannibal, Caesar,
Genghis Khan, the town was silent and depressed a few months. However, each Once the good
of Dona Paula appeared in public with the abominable hat on or any other article of his own
high rank, was always greeted with a murmur reproach. And the original case was that she did
not protest publicly or in secret, even in the sanctity of conscience, against the evil of their
people come home. Juzgábalo natural and logical. He could not think think that would be otherwise.
Its sociological ideas not yet advised him to rebel against the verdict of public opinion. Believed
in good faith to put on gloves or a fur coat or hat, I made a act
rejected by the divine and human laws.

The whispers, the mocking, were the necessary punishment for this infraction. Hence, their
fears and anxieties every time I went to stand in the theater or on the promenade, and flush the
rushing.

Why then, say, Dona Paula is dressed like this?

Not be very knowledgeable human heart that such a question. Dona Paula put on his hat and gloves
knowingly that would embarrass him as a guy opens the cupboard and knowingly sweet docks then
they have to flog. Those who have not been reared in a village, you never know how tasty treat
is the hat for an artisan.

Dona Paula was high, dry, awkward. When she had been a good girl, but the years, continuous closure,
which was not seasoned, and especially the struggle that had maintained with the public to establish
their hierarchy, had withered prematurely. Still beautiful black eyes kept enclosed in a nice
face and good features.

The first act came to an end. It was a fantastic melodrama, whose name I remember, where the company
had made all the scenic apparatus that was available. Casserole I was amazed, and welcomed
each change of decoration with loud applause. Pablito Belinchón had happened in Madrid a month
last year, laughed incontestable superiority one appliance with smart winking in front of the stage.
And to prove that the whole thing bored him, ended by turning his back on stage and look to twins to
the local beauties. Each time the skin beautiful Russian glasses pointed one, the girl suffered
a slight shudder, changed position, her hand a tremulous little hair to fix it, smiled at his
mother or his sister for no reason is put serious again, and fixed strongly and decisively
their eyes on the scene. But at the moment the fast rising shyly to those beady crystals that
obfuscated. Finally concluded by blushing. Pablito, satisfied, pointing to another beauty. The known
as if they were her sisters, tuteaba to most of them and many had
been boyfriend: but the pen in the air was not more mobile and changeable
in the field he loves.

All had to suffer a painful disappointment. Of late, tired of love to neighbors, had been
dedicated to fascinate many outsiders came to Sarrió, only to abandon, Of course, if they committed
the folly of staying in the village over a month or two.

There are good reasons why Pablito could have his good-natured heart all young Indians and even the
bizarre. He was a young man of twenty-four apuestísimo or twenty years, handsome face and manly,
graceful and elegant figure. Horseback riding and admirably led by a cabriolet or a four-horse
chariot, which no one could do Sarrio more than the drivers.

When wearing the baggy pants, the Pablito seemed skirts, if narrow, was a stork. Came the fashion
of high collars, our Pablito was half the street with his tongue hanging out. Estilábanse low,
as taught to sternum.

These and other eminent authority they did so rightly invincible. Perhaps some will not find entirely
justified the dictatorship love of our youth in Sarrio.

We nevertheless confident that the provincial youth who read this
story logic and judge plausible.

When the curtain fell, a hunched old man with long white beard and glasses, came crawling rather
than walking to the stage of Belinchón.

- Don Mateo!

Impossible you missing - said Dona Paula.

- Why, what do you expect at home, Paulita?

- Praying the rosary and sleep - Venturita said.

Don Mateo smiled sweetly, and replied to that impertinence giving
her a pat loving in the face.

- It's true you should do that, my
dear ... but what do you want? if not I go to bed early I sleep ...
And then I can not resist the temptation to see these faces so cute
...

Venturita pouted disdainful which shone through the satisfaction
of being woo.

- If you were even a cute chick!

- I've been.

- Does
how many years?

...

- How bad, how bad is this girl! - Mateo said laughing and undertaking continuous act a fit of coughing
seized him breath for a few moments.

Don Mateo, decrepit old man, not only spoiled by the years, but by a multitude of ailments acquired a life
of dissipation sick, was the joy of the town of Sarrió. No party any private or public rejoicing
in the village was done without your intervention. He was president Liceo, dance company, for
many years and nobody thought of replacing it another. Also presided
over a music academy which was founded.

He was vocal-treasurer Casino craftsmen. The rebuilding of the theater
where we are it was due, and to reward their discomfort and disbursements,
the City had allowed tilled into the hollow steps in the box closed
with shutters already discussed. He lived on his retirement as colonel.
He was married and had a daughter thirties who still called "the little
girl."

Or created by this that Mr. Mateo was a dirty old man.

A mouthpiece was formed out of a block of wood in which a large hole had been drilled. The
block was then cut away until the walls were quite thin. The hole was reamed out at the top,
as shown in Fig. 57, and the outer surface was tapered so that the small end of the megaphone
would fit snugly on it.

We planned to reach our camping grounds by way of the canal, and had provided for that purpose
a large scow, which we expected to tow up to Lumberville and drag over to the river.

THE SCOW.

Our scow was made as follows: Two 3/4-inch pine boards, 12 inches wide and 12 feet long, were
selected from Reddy's father's lumber pile. These were used for the side pieces of the boat,
and we tapered them off at the end to a width of 3-1/2 inches. This was done by making a straight
cut from the end to a point three feet back along the edge of the board and then rounding off
the edge with a draw-knife. When one board had been shaped, it was used as a pattern for the
other, which was thus cut to exactly the same size. For the end pieces two strips, 4 inches
wide and 2 feet 10-1/2 inches long, were sawed out of a 1-inch board. Then for the bottom we
procured a number of 3/4-inch boards, 12 feet long and 8 inches wide, which we cut into 3-foot
lengths. At Bill's suggestion, before nailing the parts together, we secured some strips of
flannel, which were saturated with paint, and laid between the seams so as to make the boat
perfectly water-tight. The side and end boards were then nailed together, with the strips of
flannel between, the side boards overlapping the end boards, as shown in Fig. 59. After planing
down the end boards until their edges laid flush with the edges of the side pieces, the bottom
boards were nailed on, strips of cloth being inserted between them, as well as along the edges
of the side and end boards. To brace the bottom a 3/4-inch board was placed at the center,
inside the boat, and bent down against the floor, to which it was nailed with wire nails. The
nails were driven into the board from the outer side of the boat and were clinched inside.
Along the upper edges of the side boards two strips 2 inches wide and 1 inch thick were nailed.
Two notches were cut in the inner side of each strip before it was nailed on. The notches were
1/2 inch deep, 1-1/2 inches wide, 3 inches apart and about 5-1/2 feet from the stern end. When
the strips were nailed in place these notches formed sockets to receive the rowlocks. A strip
was also nailed across the stern of the boat and formed with two central notches, to receive
the rowlocks for a steering oar. This strip, however, was 3 inches wide, and projected 1 inch
above the end board, so as to lie flush with the deck boards, which were later applied. Six
thole pins, 1/2 inch thick, 4-1/2 inches long and 2 inches wide, were cut out of an oak board.
The lower end of each pin was reduced to a width of 1-1/2 inches for a length of 2 inches.
The thole pins were then fitted snugly in the notches. Two cleats, nailed to the side boards
inside, 7 inches below the upper edge, served to support a seat board 1 inch thick and 2 feet
10-1/2 inches long. The aft edge of the seat was about 10 inches forward of the rowlocks. The
boat was completed by nailing on a couple of deck boards at each end. The oars were made of
2-inch pine boards, 5 feet long and 5 inches wide. They were blocked out at Mr. Schreiner's
sawmill and then shaped and smoothed down with a draw-knife and spoke-shaved. They were 1-1/4
inches at the handle and 2 inches immediately below, tapering down to a diameter of 1-1/4 inches
at the top of the blade. The blades were 18 inches long, 5 inches wide, and planed down to
a thickness of 1/4 inch along the edges.

CHAPTER VI.

OFF TO THE ISLAND.

The morning of July 2d dawned bright and clear, but long before daybreak the members of the
S. S. I. E. E. of W. C. I. were astir. The jolly red sun peeping over the eastern hills witnessed
an unaccustomed sight. Six greatly excited boys were running back and forth from the barn to
the canal, bearing all manner of mysterious bundles, which were carefully deposited in a freshly
painted scow. Yes, all six of us were there.

A UNIQUE ALARM CLOCK.

We hadn't expected to see Reddy Schreiner at such an early hour, for he was always a sleepyhead,
and no alarm clock would ever wake him. But this was an exceptional day, and, besides, Reddy
was quite an original chap. He had taken one of the borrowed roosters into his room the night
before, and when, early in the morning, Mr. Chanticleer had mounted the footboard of the bed,
flapped his wings and given vent to his opinion of a boy who persisted in sleeping at that
late hour of the day, the noise was too much for even Reddy's drowsy sensibilities.

THE TRIP TO THE ISLAND.

Our scow was not large enough to carry all the things we had to take with us, but as Mr. Schreiner
was going to take Uncle Ed up in his wagon, we left the rest of our luggage for him to bring
along. We boys walked the eleven miles up the canal to Lumberville, towing the barge. It was
a tiresome task; but we divided the work into two-mile shifts, two boys towing at a time and
then each taking a mile ride as steersman in the boat. It was about noon when we arrived at
Lumberville, and then we had to unload our boat before we could haul it out of the canal and
down to the river. The river on the Jersey side of the island was so shallow that we waded
across, pushing the boat ahead of us. The current was too swift to permit of rowing, and it
was rather hard for us to keep our footing. But we managed to reach our destination finally
without any mishap. The island was thickly wooded, except for a small clearing where we landed.
The first thing we did was to unpack our eatables, and Jack, the cook, soon had an appetizing
pan of bacon and eggs sputtering on the kerosene stove.

PRELIMINARY EXPLORATION.

As no better position offered at the time we pitched our tent in the clearing, pending a thorough
search for a more suitable place elsewhere. Around the tent we dug a trench about a foot deep
to prevent water from entering our quarters when it rained. It was about time for Uncle Ed
and Mr. Schreiner to appear with the rest of our luggage, so we did not have time to do much
exploring, but sauntered southward along the shore, always on the lookout for their arrival.
About a quarter of a mile from the tent we came across the wreck of an old bridge, which had
been washed down by some freshet. This was a great find, and served us many purposes, as will
appear later.

While we were examining the wreck we heard a distant "halloa" from the mainland. There was
Uncle Ed sitting on a pile of goods on the railroad bank looking for all the world like an
Italian immigrant. We answered with a shout and scrambled back to the clearing. Then we ran
splashing through the water, pushing the boat before us. It didn't take us long to load up
and carry him back to the island.

A RUSTIC TABLE.

Uncle Ed entered into our fun at once. He was as enthusiastic as a boy over the surroundings,
and when we told him of the old bridge he started right off to investigate, taking the ax with
him. Soon he had pried off a number of the planks, which we used for a flooring to our tent.
Then he built us a table out of four forked sticks, driven into the ground, and supporting
two cross sticks, on which a pair of planks were laid.

THE SMALL FILTER.

"Well, now, boys," said Uncle Ed, wiping the perspiration from his forehead, "I am as thirsty
as a whale. Where do you get your drinking water? Is there a spring on the island?"

We told him that we used the river water.

"What, river water! That won't do at all," he cried. "You'll all have the typhoid fever. We
must build a filter. I brought some charcoal with me for this very purpose."

Taking one of our pails he broke a hole in the bottom of it and stuffed a sponge in the hole.
A layer of small stones was then placed in the pail, over this a layer of broken charcoal with
the dust carefully blown out, then a layer of clean sand, and finally a layer of gravel. Each
layer was about two inches thick. The pail was suspended from a branch in a cool place and
proved an excellent filter, the water trickling out through the sponge being perfectly pure
and sweet, no matter how dirty it had been when poured in; but the capacity of the filter was
too small, and Uncle Ed said he would make us a larger one on the morrow if no spring was discovered
in the meantime.

The sun was getting low in the west, and we therefore postponed the exploration of our island
until the following day. We had been up since four o'clock that morning and had done some pretty
hard work; so, immediately after supper, we turned in and, lulled by the murmuring of the river,
were soon fast asleep.

THE BARREL FILTER.

Immediately after breakfast the next day we started out in two parties to search the island.
The only discovery of any moment was that made by Dutchy's party, which found a small island
separated from ours by a narrow channel, through which the water ran like a mill-race. No spring
was discovered, so Uncle Ed had to construct his large filter. Bill and I went over to Lumberville
in search of a couple of cider barrels and a pailful of charcoal. The barrels were placed one
on top of the other after cutting a large hole in the top of the lower barrel, and a smaller
one in the bottom of the upper one. The latter opening was covered by an inverted saucer. Over
this we spread a 3-inch layer of coarse sand, then a 2-inch layer of charcoal, a 4-inch layer
of clear, sharp sand, and a 2-inch top layer of gravel. The lower barrel was provided with
a faucet, through which we could draw off the filtered water as desired. In order to keep the
water cool we placed the filters in a shady place near the river, and piled up earth around
the lower barrel.

"Now, boys," said Uncle Ed, "form in line there, and we will go through a fire drill."

He arranged us about five feet apart in a line extending from the filter to the river. We had
six pails, and these Dutchy filled one at a time, passing them up the line to Reddy, who emptied
them into the upper barrel and then threw them back to Dutchy to be refilled. This cessation of smiles and laughter of a another, and I felt
I downloaded the mind of a great weight, because that weaknesses are strung together of life, and
has never been told the truth as the pompous Don Hermogenes: "There is little or much at all.
"

Twice accompanied us on these expeditions, exploration and mixed game, the priest Don Sabas, but
no weapon that pinto club that served as a cane. Was it something like gunpowder decline in spending
in those bursts of pure pleasure, and called them "creatures of God" those who were in the magnitude
scale, from wild boar and roe down. But how knew the full scale complete and true, and those
mountains and other such, and how respect he heard the two men, as hunters, both are growing at
my side, and how happy I listened and I watched him this way ... and many others, for those
without eyes or the rough ears of Chisco witted and his comrade!

Because it's true that this word hombrazo so dull and so poor in resources in the party My uncle,
a bit more pleasant and loose officiating in the church where he spoke from the altar more fairly
to the case and the extent of understanding of his rustic parishioners, in the heights of the
mountain did not seem to himself. It was under him, to be much, the interest to know in a few
colorful phrases and the news I asked, not to satisfy I supplied the Chisco and his partner,
about the great beasts in their hideouts in those mountains and how to catch them, trouble sets
in which they had seen him and As this was related to near and far, their descriptions of journeys
made by this or that port during an unbridled "cellerisca" their risk of death among these snowdrifts,
sometimes at fault and clinging to life itself, and most of them for love that of others: the
rest was, for me, the way they "fall" on the mountain, like a statue master in its own right
pedestal; that their way of enjoying the nature that surrounded, swelling it by smell, by sight
and even every pore his body, so after this surfeit, was reading me aloud as he passed his
eyes through the pages of this immense book so close and in Greek to me, the ease that was within
the rough simplicity of their language, the right word, the picturesque touch, note exact box needed
to be well observed and well meaning, the role played in this work of true artist, his painting
club, stressing in air and the end of the arm extended, the force of words, the folding of the
humble cassock, gently moved by the continuous air blowing from the heights, the head erect,
eyes sparkling, his hat down over his neck, correctness and elegance, in short, all lines of
this living sculpture ... Oh! diéranle the poor priest in plain land in the open valley, in
the city, a miter, the papal tiara in the capital the Christian world, and would give them death:
breathing at will, to live at ease, to know God, to feel in all its immensity, to worship
and Don Sabas serve as served and worshiped him, he needed the continued spectacle of those
grand altar of that wilderness, rugged and lonely, with their peaks vanished so often in the
clouds that blended with the sky.

None of this, how beautiful it was and so was the view, read or estimate
the two monsoon how deep respect for Don Sabas had only become a priest
of the parish and man of unquestionable competence as soon as they
reached them.

My temper, in the scale of the sensible, not even reached the level
of the innumerable as for "feel natural" need to see reproduced on
canvas and embellished by fantasy the painter and resources of the
palette, and yet, I read something I had never read in nature every
time I looked in the light of the impressions of Don Sabas perched
on the tops of the mountains.

And it was much appreciated and even admired for me this miracle cure Tablanca poor; miracle that
had never been to me no pictures, no books or speeches.

On the last occasion for those coming home the two, I surrendered, and hastily, and it so fresh
and so lively as if it had not left the place, told me he had seen everything me until then
it was like to see nothing and had to do something that I had promised.

- What you want when you want - I answered trembling, for its commitment to acquiring with the
man for whom gambling excursions were a thing to me out of joint.

- Well, my account is the case - he replied - and there is no more to say.

VIII

My visits to the village thorough examination alone and I made my own, leaving appear in it as
the careless, to surprise the best in their intimacy. Knowing "Sight" to your neighborhood
at Mass the previous Sunday, I had noticed very strongly monotonous uniformity "cut", so to
speak, and even clothing. All the boys used the 'lastic' red and green all the old, and all women
had the "blanket" or similar color shawl and similarly crossed over his chest and kidneys; everywhere
and all kinds abounded blond and the curved line, not without grace, with a tendency the square to
the shoulders, everyone walked, talked and moved with the same calm, and in all faces, old
and young, you could see the same expression of goodness in some tinge of fright, as if the continuing
vision of the great masses in whose shadow they live those people, the had frightened and suspense.
I did not have one iota to rectify these impressions, received at a glance that the whole neighborhood,
when I tried studied in further detail on the contrary, resultóme that the monotony of their
way and clothing to be well confirmed by, had to add another monotony less salient by the
way: that of their rooms. All Tablanca houses, with very rare exceptions, I found the same plane
built by: the ground floor, for livestock stables sheep and goats, on the floor, family room and
the kitchen ceiling without the roof, and above the loft, bounded by a vertical board on the edge
corresponding to kitchen, forming with the three remaining walls what might be called "smoke
box." Outdoor accessory to a block and a cattle barn, and stuck to her or the house, an orchard very
small.

Just as in the kitchen of my uncle spoke all over the place for young and old, old and young.
As a characteristic of that language, such as jacks and Hs oes as
esu end gratia "jermosu" and "jormigueru" with beautiful mound.

But as so melodic and rhythmic cadence is giving the sentence, which are not the rough a word
is unpleasant to the ear: on the contrary, and have expressions and idioms of taste so signally
classic, that this and the rhythmic chant that accompany them, listening a conversation between
those mountaineers, came to my mind the "music" of our old romances.

It is also very noteworthy that none of these peculiarities in the way of being and expression,
undergoes alteration visible by changing places or customs. It's very common there to migrate
during the summer the men servants to the provinces as distant as
those of Aragon to hold the office of sawing wood, or those of Castile,
or work implements chestnuts, to exchange for wheat or cash.

I spoke with these men, newcomers the valley after many months away from him, and did not find the
slightest difference that distinguished in dress or speech, or how to conduct themselves at
all, its other neighbors; nor have I found after looking for her to try, very noticeable signs
that interest them outside their homes, rather than the issue that brings them, as if they only
had eyes heart to see and feel the native homeland.

The race is as healthy and beautiful I have ever known in Spain, and I think they are a prominent
part it continued fitness of the mountain, the abundance of milk and the integrity of customs public
and domestic. I learned with astonishment that there was no place in a tavern, and that Property
of the City, who sold the recipe and came to almost every consumer
I drink at home, from where it was, by force of habit, which was very
poorly regarded the man who showed instincts' bartenders, "and much
worse that was carried away from them, albeit rarely.

Not so stunned me the news that there was scarce a lot of money, to be a common lineage shortage everywhere,
but I thought it was of note that of which, however, were common fruits of the earth, as among primitive
peoples; and so it is important that services are paid with a half dozen or panicles a miller
chestnut. What is not in that valley are potatoes, but instead, abundant harvest of promise in
the valley of my paternal grandmother and upstream Nansa, where there is no maize, which is the
main crop Tablanca, so these two valleys, separated by four hours away at a good walk, are in frequent
treatment to change those important fruits of the earth.

Almost all men are Abarquero Tablanca, some of which, while being farmers, industries that make
a trade. They camp in the summer, in the bush in teams of eight to ten, cut wood, prepared in
the rough sandals pairs, and so them down to the village, where, after it cured, they concluded
just a little. In this task I found some of them occupied, and seeing me enthralled narrow
adze handle overalls and long shear, or removed by curette curly chips from deep and intricate
the Almadreña, or "painting", the tune and, at knifepoint on artificial patina dried colostrum
fire.

Others are more carpenters, and also collects and prepared in the bush timber stands and "canes"
(poles) of horses, or farm implements which are then refined and topped down.

Another peculiarity of those people buried among the highest mountains of the Andes: called "the
Mountain" to the flat land in the valleys of the coast, and "mountain" to its inhabitants.

One of the first people I got "the talk" on that occasion, was a man that was very original.
I found him picking edges of the floor and closing the gap with them a 'morio' which had collapsed
there. He worked with great deliberation, and was pushing a lot, without removing the pipe
from his mouth, every effort he made, because it was old.

He greeted me very smiling at me beside him, and I even called my name, "Don Marcelo."

Enough my quality of "sir" and a stranger to earn those honors a person of Tablanca, where are
all the same courtesy, but I was also nephew of Don Celso, son "of the late Don Juan Antonio"
blood Bejos Ruiz, of the noble substance of Tablanca, the "house" "...», Going up there, the Pharaohs
of there, something indisputable, prestigious and respected per se and as of divine right, but
not the authoritarian manner despotic feudal traditions, but to the
patriarchal and llanota of biblical times.

No wonder, then, should not miss me, view things from this side, the warm welcome I excused
the man morio.

Was "amañandu aqueyu" because he was in face view "in Abertal."

Finances were not his, 'As I could understand, "nor the land nor any fence, but had seen a day removed
the first song of the middle, then two of the "apareaos" with him,
and then "other of arrimaus to eyus "and finally, he had said," to
the first celleriscas to come, or the first response to jocique up
a little lick pa verdinis Estus is the moriu esborrega around here.

" And so it happened. Three days was the open gap without being seen by the owner farm and
a further four 'Pedric "he fruitlessly for him to take up before it biting beasts to that gate and
ended up with the "poverty" of the fence ... until passing the "moriu" weeks in that state "bichornosu
'he had resolved to close the gap. Why was this "one", and I could not help it. Not in all cases
less than that the interest that was taken by the alien, but she always gave in his face and
got into big care carelessness of others. I knew him when I had come to Tablanca and life I had
done since then. She loved me attached to the land and the house of my grandparents. Chisco
was a good companion to walk where I walked with him Pito also Salces, but not as "amañau" as the
other "pa the AUTU of rozasi with finus gentlemen." If Chisco out of Tablanca as was Robacio, there
is nothing to ask. Still yet, faithful, honest and serving workers as it was and where he served,
no parent of that place was in "josticia of law ", close the door of his house. Then there
were those who, if not properly closed, either is the opening of goodwill. Topics men. The girl
was nice, and some goods had inherit in their day, but was not "to each Callejues regolver" a
good man flow was a "per with himself." Well she knew him, so looking at Chisco with good eyes,
but it was a very different looking from his father, and he understood. The mother was on the
road different than her husband, and snuggled closer to those of the daughter ... In addition
and settlement, and what Don Celso fix, if the thing was good for everyone. But what "amejao" my
father I found it! She had known him a little more than "mozucu" because Don John Antonio I would,
if alive, at the foot of ten years. He had left the place without having Hair beard yet, then
again, "mozallón arroganti Jechu a" but "come out here and Aya, as he says otru that. " "We pulled
it mundanu Muchu Jacia had big bucks apañau through the land of God and the woman who waited to
marry him. Had become to be alone "the mayoralgu" he never wanted to destroy out of Tablanca.
"Although it was not mujeriegu of by suyu ", loneliness and other penalties had been forced
to marry well. Married Well, that yes, "Lifetime Bejo Rock!" with the best of Caórnica, home
of the Pine: Dona Candida Sanchez del Pinar. It seemed I was seeing, so arrogantona and so ...
and then involved with their softness ... But God had not wanted things happen from there,
and today a son, and tomorrow another, had been the three who had been taking, and finally
it worth a Potosi pure gold, and with it the light and joy of the house, which fenecería "Tomorrow
or on otru" with the poor Don Celso, who had been about to die. And deceased Ruiz de Bejos latter,
and in closing the house or moving to unknown owners, what Tablanca would not live for his,
no one came over in the valley as old as the same river that crossed? So he was glad both of
my coming. Permission might well be of God. Because if I take attachment to the land, what
better owner for the house, no more pompous Lord for the entire valley, when Don Celso missing?
Ah, how happy he is to I was cheering! For now, there had to serve him in whatever he wanted
to send ... Cucón Nardo, the "TARUMBA" if it wanted more plain and familiar, because it was called
the mote, did not know why, but it was the truth that offended him ... Anyway, was closed gap
...

That was when he joined the TARUMBA all, although still somewhat bent kidney and fairly wide apart,
and faced me. His talk had lasted as long as their work and I had not done more than look
at him and hear him. He removed his pipe from his mouth after rubbing both hands against his
pants, Smote face down on the thumbnail on the left and taught me a smile full of teeth chipped
box. It was an old man's face placid and very gray hair matted, somewhat reedy voice and very hard
to "hinge", ie, awkward their every move. For a man as careful as that of the estate of others,
I felt very well looked after itself had in view. I say this by the shabbiness and filth his
whole person, which were very large ... Still, it was interesting
and very nice the old man.

I talked to him a good while yet, because I entertained a lot of their conversation picturesque
and I finally asked about the doctor's house.

- Sail there - I said turning around to the right hand and pointing to "Lord a building more
than the current rate in the village -. Two is Zanchetta in it.

- And Don Pedro Nolasco? - Ask later.

- Sailing to the other manu - he answered, pointing with his opposite -. Above tejau of the
first to tend orchards, güertu, looms the Aleru vencíu and detraseru
jastialón of eya, with its balconies with fierru.

In this coming toward us from the top of the site, whose homes, like
those of all mountain areas, have no rhyme or reason to each other,
a girl of good picture, with a highly polished copper cauldron on
his head, and a clay pitcher in each hand.

The TARUMBA, after meeting her, he winked at me, turned back and
told me while carrying on snuff his pipe

- That's Tanasi.

- Who
is Tanasi? - I asked myself.

- The eldest daughter of Toperu - he
answered.

- Who is the Toperu? - He inquired.

- Pos is the father
of Tanasi ... Come the monsoon Chiscu courting.

- Aha - I cried watching
her carefully, because time was passing in front us.

The monsoon, which had assumed something of what we were discussing
the TARUMBA and I became very red and smiled, lowering her eyes to
give us good morning.

Heart praised the good taste Chisco, and I explained well the molehill.

- Well, what the hell you want for your daughter? - Asked TARUMBA.

- One such Pepazus - I said it -.

A mozallón as a cajigu, which removes two hazas of a cave, eats cuatru
Cavone, and unless the pump unless it tenemus moriu ahead.

You say you have the Toperu this hobby, not because I am able to
juralu that as Nah, you, sir Don Marcelu, can ponder me and what I
will or that come in these canteens?

Putting up at the doctor's house, who wished to pay his visit that
day, despedíme the TARUMBA, but it, cutting by half the dismissal,
she said she "gypsy he was also because both houses were full, and
his doctor, just opposite, and cast to walk beside me.

We spent an alley with many Bardales, and lead to a square green land and contoured for the most
part died with ivy and elders, said my companion, pointing to the
left and bottom of a bag that was there for two enclosures, one of
'busquizal "(thick bush) and a crumbling wall between weeds:

- This
is my home.

And turning to the opposite side, he added, while pointing to another
that closed the square there:

- And this is the méicu.

The house snuggled TARUMBA the wall on one side of ruin, and there was with him at pains and
losses and the harnesses from the owner. With these thoughts in his head, looked at TARUMBA without
saying anything, but he must have read it to me in the face that
I put, because I said right away:

- No espanti of EYU, because it's
metal or wood.

I stayed and women, not because of the salt beds and the hijus, among Casaus and ausentis, it mesmu
that if any; and I do not reach the pa ná tiempu with the work they give me the ajenus beware ...
Because, believe me Nah, you, sir Marcelu Don, what happened to me has vistu moriu Nah, you
raise, going on here with a thousand and five hundred to ca time of day and nochi, and if not
by the Tarumbu juera, Nah, you don believe me Marcelu, believe me tomi Nah, you and not to emponderancia:
if the Tarumbu juera, the goal of Tablanca vecindariu of callejonis Estus she would have been
devoured by the swarm and cuerus vivus.

Well keep me even putting it in doubt, I left him very affable, and I went to the doctor's house,
which was two steps.

IX

Since he had known little more than a glance, at my uncle, I felt a great desire to take a
paragraph to my taste Tablanca's physician, because it seemed to me at that youth had more 'quarry'
which is in the usual type and flow of men their age and circumstances. And the quarry was
the first clearings, at ground level, as they say.

As I had been closer to home, came out to meet up with a doublet portal home, little more than
summer, despite the cool winter running environment, but with good
coats and plump white flesh that stuck out in hives and gathered cuffs
of her nightgown and above the slight neck jacket.

Upstairs Condújome a few sections, then a short passage, and, finally, I introduced a living
room with sunshine and cabinet, which, for the furniture and the
books it contained, I assumed from then he would dispatch.

 Reddy, who was the least excited of the lot, was told to draw Bill's tongue
forward so as to prevent it from falling back and choking the windpipe. This he did with the
dry part of the handkerchief, drawing the end of the tongue out at the corner of the mouth,
and holding it there while Uncle Ed and I started the pumping action, which produced artificial
respiration. I was directed to grasp Bill's arms just below the elbows, and swing them vertically
in an arc until the hands met the ground again above the head. This expanded the chest. Uncle
Ed at the same time stood over the body with his elbows on his knees and hands extended, as
illustrated in Fig. 88. Then I swung the arms up and back to the sides of the body, but just
before the hands touched the ground Uncle Ed seized the body in both hands just below the ribs,
and as soon as I touched the arms to the ground he swung forward with all his weight on his
hands, squeezing the waist and pushing upward so as to force out the air in the chest. Then
he slowly counted, one, two, three, four, all the time steadily increasing the pressure, until
at the signal four, with a final push, he shoved himself to the first position, shown in Fig.
88. At the same signal I drew the arms up again over the head, and held them there while Uncle
Ed again counted four; then I returned the arms to the sides, and Uncle Ed repeated the squeezing
process. These movements were continued for about three minutes, and then Bill gave a short,
faint gasp. We kept on with the artificial respiration, assisting the gasps, which gradually
grew stronger, until they had deepened into steady breathing. Then we stripped off the wet
bathing suit, and wrapping Bill in Uncle Ed's clothing, laid him in the bottom of the boat.
While Dutchy hurried the boat across, Uncle Ed rubbed the patient's arms and legs. The rest
of us swam over and ran for blankets from the tent. Bill was wrapped in one of the blankets
and the other was used as a stretcher, on which we carried him to the tent. Then one of us
was sent post-haste across to Lumberville for some whiskey, which was diluted in hot water
and given the patient a teaspoonful at a dose, every fifteen minutes at first, and then at
less frequent intervals. Uncle Ed kept Bill in bed all the next day for fear of congestion
of the lungs. He told us that unless the patient kept perfectly quiet for a couple of days,
he was liable to be seized with a sudden attack of hard breathing that might choke him to death
in a short time. To stop such an attack he told us that the best plan was to apply a mustard
plaster to the chest, and if the patient commenced to gasp, to start pumping the arms and squeezing
the waist so as to help him breathe. After Bill had come around and was himself again Uncle
Ed gave us a thorough drill in methods of restoring the drowned. He laid down on the grass
and made us practise on him the various directions which he gave us.

HOW TO WORK OVER A PATIENT ALONE.

"If you boys hadn't been so excited," he said, "I would have made you rub Bill's body and limbs
while we were pumping the air into him, but I knew you would get in the way, and be more of
a bother than a help. You must learn to be calm in any accident; excitement doesn't pay. Keep
steadily and slowly at your pumping, for you might have to do it for four hours before the
patient comes to." He taught us just how to swing the arms and squeeze the ribs to best advantage,
and how to hold the tongue without getting in the way of the arms as they were pumped back
and forth. There was also a special way of rubbing the arms and legs. The limbs were always
rubbed upward, or toward the body, with the bare hands, or a dry cloth if there was one at
hand, but this all had to be done without interfering with the pumping action. "If the patient
doesn't come around in five minutes," he said, "turn him on his face again over the roll of
clothing, or any other suitable substitute, and press out the water from the stomach, rolling
him first to one side and then to the other; be sure to get all the water out." When we had
learned our lesson well, Uncle Ed took Dutchy for his patient, and proceeded to show us how
a man could work over him alone. First he went through the operation of squeezing the water
out of him, and drying his nose and mouth, much to the patient's discomfort; then he drew Dutchy's
tongue out of the corner of his mouth, holding it there by closing the jaws on it, and holding
the jaws together by passing a handkerchief over his chin and lapping it over his head. After
that he began to pump, seizing the patient's arms and swinging them up over the head and back,
as before. Just as the arms were dropped back to the sides of the body, he squeezed them in
against the ribs, at the same time drawing upward toward the head and counting four each time,
as he had done before. But the lesson was abruptly interrupted by Dutchy, whose imagination
was worked up to such a pitch that I actually believe he thought he had been drowning. Anyway,
he squirmed out of Uncle Ed's grasp, and wouldn't play patient any longer. For several days
after that we couldn't persuade him to venture near deep water.

CHAPTER IX.

BRIDGE BUILDING.

Willow Clump Island was, for the most part, a trackless wilderness, and as soon as we had made
our map we laid out roads to the different important points. Our main highway ran from Point
Lookout to Tiger's Tail. This road was made rather winding, to add to its picturesqueness,
and from it a number of shorter roads branched off.

SPAR BRIDGE.

We ran a bridge across the mill-race at its narrowest point. This bridge was made of trees
which we had cut down in making our road. It was quite a piece of engineering, built under
Uncle Ed's guidance. 

It was the first of May. Poldy, almost desperate, and of seeing the stork came, not However,
as usual, between ten and eleven in the morning, at the edge of the lagoon.

Barely two minutes that was there, absorbed, pensive and melancholy setting long please look at
the calm water, when a hasty sound of wings coming closer his whole body shook and delight your
soul with pleasant shock. The white stork had been flying, had fallen a few steps away, and I
approached him with their slow and stately and giving way to the
peak of castañetazos that used to always say hello.

Indescribable was the joy of Poldy. His impatience was greater than his joy. Driven for their
impatience, threw his hands around the neck of wading birds, and began looking for the cord or tape
from which depends the answer to your letter expected. What a cruel affliction had then! No letter
was pending. No tape or cord was hanging. A point was Poldy to mourn with rage. But the stork, as if
divining her feelings, opened the long wings and to the point with joy and surprise Poldy warned
that the stork had under the left wing and very well tied there with
a strong and subtle braid feathers hid under a spliff or long thin
roll.

Poldy seized him immediately and felt it was very light, which was sealed and stamped and was
so strong rope seal and was so well-tied, he could not break not
occur without scissors.

On the exterior surface of the roll, it looked written in language German songs: To His Excellency
the gracious Miss Countess of Liebestein Poldy.

He Poldy some love to the stork in order to show his gratitude, and even some say he kissed her head
in glad tidings of good message. Poldy then ran to the castle lock herself in her room, cut the
tape with scissors and see what the roll contained. There on the roll several objects Poldy was successively
examined. It was a sight picture, neat and brilliantly illuminated with colors, an extensive
and magnificent Oriental room, full Pilgrim's workmanship and elegance. In any one could see and
admire stunning lap of luxury unblemished and very tasteful. It seems that was what the prodigious
underground chamber where Aladdin find the Genie Lamp. Hung from the walls bright weapons, Indian,
Chinese and Japanese, hanging ceiling lamps carved gold were around vases, jars and glasses,
artfully carved of precious metals, very rare jaspers of ancient porcelain and work ataujía
or fine gems, ivory, bronze and other rich materials. Several idols degustation of strange and
symbolic ways, and characterized the authorized stay. There were represented Agni, the god of fire,
Kamala or Kamela, Venus in India, whose name come, in our vulgar
language Camama, bluff and their derivatives, and there were also
Indra Varuna and even the Trimurti.

First, on a splendid Alcatifa of Persia, and sitting on soft cushions Silk, beautifully embroidered,
resembled a man in the prime of youth, covered of white and rosy robe and crowned the gentle head
of a large turban, candid also, on which stood a plume or tuft of curly feathers beautiful,
and grasped the plume the turban by a huge goatee of pearls, diamonds and rubies, which was worth
an empire. Before the man had several tables dwarfs, where golden and embossed trays, in light
baskets, in slender vases and chalices glazed, offered gift of sight of smell and taste, liqueurs,
preserves and spiced fruit. On one side and some distance the young lord, was a rich and elegant
hookah, which was flexible tube luengo young Mr. grabbed by the end, revealing the thick amber
mouthpiece, pinned to the tube by a ring of sparkling emeralds. On the opposite side of the hookah,
but much closer the young lord, rose, very funny pose, our familiar friend the white stork, Poldy
whose sight not a little pleased. Not so pleased, it was of anger and shock her, but repressed
anger, attributing what he saw long-standing and essential Oriental fashion, in the back of the room
came three Bayadere, with Apsaras suit or immortal nymphs, which wove voluptuous dance, desceñido
the transparent and light clothing, arms and feet bare, wearing down the throats of the feet and
arms, anklets and bracelets, and also revealing the back and turned round and firm breasts. Several
musicians, dressed as they say they dress the sky Gandarbas and musicians of Indra, accompanied
dance with harps, flutes and violins, and erotic songs.

Poldy was dazzled at the sight all this and formed the highest concept of radiance and wealth
of the Indian lord. Of its design staff is what the photograph does not idea was entirely satisfactory.
And it was that not the purpose of photography, and below which there was this sign: my way
of life in the East.

Another smaller picture, appeared as the young man with clearer details. Was alone, full body,
but without any attachment. His suit, although on picturesque, was more European than Indian,
but the strange hat on his head and was they call heroes in the Philippines. Dolman jacket
or tight to his body and adorned with frogs, revealed the robust forms of his torso and arms. The
pants were wide and short. From the knee to the soles wore calf boots. Earrings the wide Charpa,
also leather, belting his waist, had a gun to one side and On the other hand a large hunting
knife. In the right hand glove leather cover had double-barreled shotgun, which rested on the
ground and on which he supported. For low had a sign saying: when going to hunt tigers.

Finally, there was a third picture that left nothing to be desired. There was the young Mr. clear,
accurate and clearly portrayed. His face was so beautiful. The eyes were large and expressive,
the beard seemed silky, rich and very well kept and stroked. The nose, a as much as columbine,
gave a certain majesty to their expression. And the width and straightness of face showed unusual
intelligence. You could see in all its aspect of an indescribable kind, of sympathetic and distinguished
dearly. Their bare hands, yet strong and manly were aristocratic, very neat and pretty, with pointed
fingers at the tip and encanutadas nails, instead of being short and flat. In this portrait, the
young man was dressed entirely European use of any label, with a white tie and tails, so admirably
cut and that he liked so well, do not dream of better, or Frank, Vienna, or the tailor more Famous
London. On the low end of this portrait was another sign that read, in evening dress to go to
a dance of Lord Governor of India.

Bewitched Poldy was contemplating the portrait. Was captivated by the beauty and distinction of his distant
friend. And could not be confirmed in the belief that it was an Indian prince mediated, a nabob,
or at least a Brahmin or a Kshatriya of first order and a long stem.

Imagine now the reader the desire, the wonder, the palpitations of
joy and the rare delight Poldy'd read the letter, which also came
round and was conceived in these terms:

VIII

"I'm disgusted and
I find it hard to write letters giving the address to whom treatment,
and thus adopted the ancient custom of the Orientals.

You will allow me, a beautiful countess Poldy, which of course tute
you without ceremony.

The white stork, which nests years on the roof of the splendid house
which I own in flowery banks of the Ganges, I have brought welcome
news from you, your sweet words and your divine image.

Blessed is the white stork has made me much good. Rightly called I used to Garuda. Now I can
confirm this sacred name, with which my country is designated the God-king of all birds, the
winged destroyer of dragons and snakes.

I am extremely pleased that you are of noble removed, and old enough
to where it in a village a few centuries ago was still wild, lack
of documents and files that could prove the nobility of any person,
and the deeds of their parents.

These, wandering in the rugged jungles and harsh climate of northern countries, declined from
its forgot illustrious origin and the primitive culture of the Aryans from which Paropamiso, and
only recently have civilized, taking advantage of the studies and progress of men Noon. But what
is this what you want, you are relatively noble and just me, but my clear nobility yours preceding
two thousand years at least.

I speak frankly and disposal flattery and compliments. That will give more credit to my praise
sincere.

Garuda, whimsical and happy for my inspiration, I took some verses
that I was far much imagine that could fall into such beautiful hands.

I pondered them my disgust of what around me and the craving that consumes my soul, to find
the object, hidden and distant love to meet my aspirations, understand them and share them.

Your
picture and your writing have filled my vows. You are the woman of my dreams.

Venerable Brahmans, wise old here, who wrote of love in the Kama Sutra
and other speeches and treaties, require sixty-four powers, brands
or skills, to exist in reality Padmini or perfect woman.

I declare that, to see your picture and reading your words, you have discovered in the sixty-four
talents and you have enthroned in my heart as queen and lady, and I recognize in you my Padmini,
without whose love I can not have never bliss. Love me then, as I love you, and make me happy
as I want to what you are.

Nothing can oppose our future union. The distance does not matter. I will not take to save distance,
and the day when you least think, will appear at your side and you'll
see me on their knees to your plants, asking that corresponds to the
immense love that you inspire.

There is no longer in me as exotic and pilgrim prohibit you love me.

I own the ancient namely the Brahmins and Kshatriyas, whose combined breeds descend, but I
have studied and I also managed to acquire enough knowledge of modern Europe. And do not look to prevention
unfair, but with paternal affection, as our first shoot lush, high and fertile doctrines. You might
have noticed I do not write your language badly until I copied and almost translated into Sanskrit
verses of Goethe. I am not ignorant nor French literature, English and other peoples. And
when it comes to religion, I will say with all secrecy, because I do not even shock and disturb
my relatives and friends, Brahmins and Kshatriyas, which I have denied, three years ago, the
Brahmanical religion, and I've done in secret, as a Catholic Christian, as you are. This conversion
is due to some Jesuit Father of the Spanish nation, who came to this city, from the Philippines
and stopped us for some time. It was so enlightened man, so pious and so eloquent and mellifluous,
who managed to convince me. God bless him and bless him. Callo your name, for surely you do not mind
and I do not want to hurt his extreme modesty. Only say that my frequent dealings with this blessed
Father, born in my great love to the Spanish language and I purchased and read the best prose writers
and poets, which she have written or typed.

We also Callus my Indian name, because I will not spoil it and because
it is so convoluted, well to learn only spoken through the living
voice.

Be satisfied for now, know that the venerable Jesuit my catechist, he put the baptized, the name
Seville Isidore. Do not be fickle: love me and I forget: do not fall for any of these dandies
Hof-Adel the palate or nobility of Vienna: Be convinced that my nobility is at least as clearly
and without doubt far more tolerance than theirs. The chance of them consist in ancient scrolls,
but mine has authentic documents, written twenty centuries before the parchment was invented,
and many more centuries before it was used in Austria and counts among writing materials.

Love
me, again, and have faith and hope in my love. No need to find, but wait. Soon I see your feet,
worshiping exhausted and begging with all my heart that you are the Padmini your

Isidore. "

IX

Poldy was thrilled to infer and consider, for reading the letter that his Indian was famous
and rich and I was madly in love with her. Points were, however, in the letter, which called
up in the spirit of Poldy, repairs, contradictions and even complaints. Tired gallant nor boastful
and nothing seemed fine commendation made by the Indian nobility, with extreme prejudice and even
contempt for the Austrian nobility, but apologized and even Poldy absolved the Indian, guessing
that in this particular had to be somewhat soured as his character, that he being a descendant
of Crishna of Rama, the Pandu, or perhaps some Avatar, the incarnation of Vishnu, of whom
Mahavarata held, was subjected to the foreign domination of English rogues.

Poldy and apologized to his friend, but was far from him right. She thought that noble documents
are worth only if it has power, wealth and high position who displays them, and all this, but the
wealth was undermined and ruined the Indian at last was a humble subject of His Britannic Majesty
and any Englishman or any employee of the Treasury cavalry colonel could look at him from top
to bottom.

Poldy ran well, that he who overcomes and dominates the rightful heir is always the loser and
mastered. And this in all periods and regions. In the Middle Ages, for example, at an crossroads,
and in open palenque, ran into a knight with another, and to test the respective bravery or to
confess to the contrary, that his lady was the most beautiful, or twinkling of an eye, both
lunged furiously and were knocked released. Following fell down from the chair one of the two
gentlemen, and at the moment, all the glory of prowess, all the renown that his adventures
and exploits had earned him, were transferred the gentleman winner
as attachment or appendix.

Poldy also remember reading somewhere that, back in America, when a chief inexperienced, not
still had something to gain, was on hand to mouth with another veteran chief, his enemy, and celebrated
author of two hundred thousand atrocities, and struck him so bad blow with the baton knocked
down and beat him, all the chief fame veteran moved the chief inexperienced, and even general
belief was that the rookie was the impetus transfused and the boldness
of a veteran, especially if you drank the blood inexperienced or you
eat, raw or stew, after he died.

How much is deducted Poldy said, that the true nobility of the day, the Europeans, and very uniquely
the Germans, because they exercise with the advances and improvements in our century, all the
ancient arts of peace and war, which were identified and Assyrians ruled the world and Babylonians,
Medes and Persians, Egyptians, Phoenicians and Carthaginians, and
Greeks and Romans, whose all glory, excellence and privileges are
today, according Poldy, in short, number and compendium in his illustrious
compatriots, and therefore it too.

Nevertheless, and after making the necessary cuts, was pleased that
Poldy outside the Indian noble and even that was it contained llanísimo
naturalized without hof-fähig the slightest difficulty, and attending
to her to court when they were married.

As in Austria, as well as the nobility, Czech, Polish, Hungarian,
Romanian, Croatian, Serbian, Dalmatian, etc., there is of Irish, French,
Spanish and Italian, of course could also having Brahmanical and chatriesco
home.

Another thing, something that angered Poldy, was the presence at the picture of those three Bayadere
so lightly dressed, so little modest and restrained in their dances. But Poldy also be easy
on this Indian outrage, and if not excused, you explained and almost forgave him. The Indian
had Bayadere, and made that life broken, out of pure oriental, when he was still mired in the darkness
of paganism, but when thanks to the Jesuit priest, became the true
religion, Poldy amendment was to secure and neglect that had left
their vicious sport.

The only thing in this business was sorry he had not been the Indian his catechumens because she
had become better than Jesuit priest, and had not given him the stack baptismal name as ugly
as that of Isidore. Poldy perhaps unaware that there had been a saint Archbishop of that name,
famous scholar, who collected and ordered their books all know of his time, and was in line
with what he had heard from an old princess, her aunt, terrible anti-Semitic, which persisted in asserting
princess's name was very common Isidoro among Jews, where he hated in such a way that had temptations
to dismiss an excellent because of his servants named Isidoro, and
just resigned himself to keep him in forcing service Filidoro renamed
onwards.

Moreover, Poldy could not be happier or more satisfied. The Isthmus of Suez, just opened and
already sensed Poldy through the channel, saving the Strait of Bab-el-Mandeb,
and browsing the Eritrean Sea, heading towards India, to visit the
villas, gardens and palaces of her young husband.

It's coming and could not take much, and Poldy was dying of impatience to see him live and not
painted, body and soul, not in picture. What aroused his curiosity and tickled brain soft fabrics
Padmini was the condition that he gave the young Indian. Was anxious to read or read to him
the Kama Sutra, and the sixty study well there and four skill or
excellence of Padmini, to search for it and convince themselves that
possessed them and that was not flattering to his friend.

In short, Poldy was anxious and exhilarated, but with concern and
joy, full of sweet hope and love and poetic ventures.

X

Too distracted or too poring Garuda had to walk, when not shown in the margin of the lagoon
where Poldy going to look every day.

The Indian also was as invisible as Garuda.

Poldy pined with impatience, and sometimes imagined that his youth would fade as pink ajar, within
which, where no dew fell, penetrating rays of the sun the summer season.

In fact, he was to end and the month of June and the Indian had not appeared.

One morning, as usual, between ten and eleven, became Poldy of the lagoon, where in vain had sought
the stork.

Tired and sad, in the middle of the path where the castle was returned, Poldy sat at foot of an elm,
in a rustic seat, and the most lush, intricate and beautiful the park. A crystal stream ran
close whispering. Margin grew white and purple violets and other non-cultivated flowers that
perfumed the air with soft and pleasant fragrance.

Flowery climbing roses and other plants that are stuck to the trees, and passing from tree to tree
other festoons and garlands, there were mysterious and secluded bush
venue.

Sitting and Poldy, pondered, and had to be distracted by such art, which, as commonly it is said,
was the saint to heaven.

What was his astonishment and what was his joy when noise and suddenly felt no time to recover,
saw the arrival of a gentle knight, he approached and came to be
respectful and knelt at his feet.

Impossible to doubt.

Was the original of the three portraits in photography. Stylish dress was hunter costume, but
without weapons, because it was already going to hunt tigers, but
pigeons.

And pith helmet instead of east, covering his head a jaunty fedora
adorned with a feather eagle.

The young man knocked to the ground and discovered the black hat and abundant curls of her head,
before his knees.

Deep was the emotion of Poldy.

Her heart was leaping in his chest. The young man seemed much more beautiful than the original
pictures, and when he heard his voice, Argentina, melodious and rich and soft persuasive tones
that steal prudence and calm, he could barely stand and thought he would faint.
In that situation was not any dialogue possible. What could be said
the two lovers? How what sentences would be correct in what superhuman
language to express their feelings agitators?

Only he said:

- Here
I am, Poldy. Yours is my life. I want to be and I'll be yours forever.
I love you, I will idolize, I adore you.

What was there to answer
Poldy, dumbfounded, radiant with joy, and love and decency struggling
in his soul?

He, however an effort and stood up, though troubled
and uncertain.

Then he got up too and pressed it irresistible and
lovingly in his arms. Then, pressing her face to hers and covered
it with kisses your forehead, cheeks and rosy lips.

Poldy met at
last the danger was, he was ashamed of giving in so easily who saw
and heard for the first time, and, giving his injured forces decency
rejected violence to her lover, fell off his arms, and sought shelter
for their audacity desalted fleeing and taking refuge in the castle.

Alone
in his stay, he said Poldy of his fear, he managed to calm down, and
at the bottom of his soul could not fail to grant his pardon to the
Indian prince. What will not forgive a young woman graceful and elegant,
very much in love her, and coming to look and offer his hand from
as far away countries? The bolt heads were countersunk,
so that the hinged boards could lie flat over them. To the top of each lee board two ropes
were attached, one passing forward around a pulley and thence back to a cleat within easy reach
of the occupant of the canoe, and the other passing directly back to this cleat. By pulling
the former rope the lee board was lifted out of the water, while the latter rope was used to
swing the board into working position. When tacking to port (left), the board on the left side
of the canoe was lowered and the other was raised, as shown in Fig. 123, and when tacking to
the starboard (right) the board on the right side was lowered, while the left one was raised.

THE INDIAN PADDLING CANOE.

Our sailing canoe proved such a good one that we decided to build a second. This was to be
much lighter, for paddling only, and of the true Indian shape, with wide, bulging sides and
raised stem and stern. The dimension of the forms used are given in Figs. 124 and 125. These
forms, it will be observed, were notched to receive the keelson and gunwales. The keelson was
formed of 1-inch spruce 3 inches wide and 10 feet long. The stem and stern, which were both
of the same shape, were cut from a 12-inch board to the form shown in Fig. 126, and were firmly
secured to the keelson. This made the boat 12 feet long. The forms were then set in place on
the keelson, one at the center and the others three feet each side. The gunwales were formed
of 3/4-inch by 2-1/2-inch spruce, and the twelve rib bands used were of the size used in our
first boat. As none of these forms was to remain in the boat, nails were driven very lightly
into them, with heads projecting so that they could easily be withdrawn when it was time to
remove the forms. The cross ribs were passed under the keelson inside of the rib bands and
outside of the gunwales, as shown in Fig. 128. After they were set in place and firmly secured
with copper tacks, a band was nailed to the keelson to form the keel. To produce the raised
stem and stern, four wedge-shaped pieces were nailed to the tops of the gunwales, as indicated
in Fig. 129. The forms were then removed and were replaced with cross sticks braced between
the gunwales. The center cross stick was provided with two corner pieces, as shown in Fig.
130, adapted to fit under the gunwales and against the rib bands. The canvas was then applied
in the manner described before, but was tacked to the upper edge of the gunwale instead of
the outer side, and the tacks were covered by a half-round molding which extended around the
entire boat. After the lacing was cut the edge of the canvas was secured to the under edges
of the gunwales. The canoe was then completed by fastening on a 1-inch square keel and treating
the boat with two coats of paint. The paddle was a duplicate of the one described in connection
with the sailing canoe.

I remember that we eventually equipped our paddling canoe with a sail and a pair of lee boards,
though no record of this fact appears in the chronicles of the society.

CHAPTER XI.

HOUSE BUILDING.

One afternoon Fred, who had waded over to Lumberville after some provisions, came splashing
back holding aloft a large square envelope. It was from Uncle Ed and contained a photograph
of a group of Wichita Indians building a large grass lodge. In a brief explanatory letter Uncle
Ed suggested that we build a similar hut on our Island.

THE GRASS HUT.

The grass lodge appealed to us as very picturesque, and we set to work immediately on its construction.
We made our hut much smaller, however, only 12 feet in diameter, and 8 or 9 feet high. First
we procured two dozen light poles between 10 and 12 feet long. These we set up about 18 inches
apart in a circle like a stockade, the sticks being buried in the ground to a depth of 12 inches.
At one side a space of 3 feet was allowed for a doorway. Inside the stockade we erected a working
platform of planks supported on barrels, and standing on this we took two opposite poles, bent
them inward and lashed their upper ends together. Then a second pair of opposite poles were
similarly bent inward and tied, and so we proceeded until the entire stockade had been converted
into a dome-shaped cage. Around these poles we laid lighter sticks, or bands, tying them at
the points of intersection. At the doorway two posts were set firmly in the ground, projecting
upward to a height of 4 feet. A lintel nailed across the top of the posts completed the door
frame. Sticks were nailed to the lintel and to the side posts, extending to the main frame
of the hut, to which they were tied. We were now ready to thatch our hut. Reddy and Dutchy
went over to Lumberville for several bales of straw. We tied the straw in bunches and applied
it to the frame, copying, as best we could, the process illustrated in the photograph.

But for its location the hut would have proved a very serviceable habitation. In order to have
a good, dry dwelling without laying down a board flooring, we had selected for its site the
sandy shore at Point Lookout. This part of the island was not sheltered with trees, and the
hot sun beat down on our hut so strongly that we found the quarters very uncomfortable indeed.
It was this fact that led to the construction of a tree hut--a building that would be perfectly
dry and yet shaded and cool. Bill had read of such houses in the Philippines and felt confident
that we could build one. We couldn't decide at first where to locate our hut until Dutchy moved
that we build it in the gnarled oak tree overlooking the "Goblins' Dancing Platform." Immediately
the motion was seconded and unanimously carried.

THE GOBLINS' DANCING PLATFORM.

Just above the town of Lumberville there was a cliff which rose sheer 200 feet above the level
of the river. So perpendicular was the cliff that a stone dropped from the overhanging ledge
at the top would fall straight down to the railroad track below without touching a twig in
its course. Back of this broad ledge there was a very peculiar formation. A column of stone
rose abruptly 40 feet higher and was topped with a large slab about 12 feet in diameter. This
was known all over that region as the Goblins' Dancing Platform. The only possible way of gaining
the summit of the column was by climbing a scraggly oak tree which grew on the high ground
back of the pillar, crawling out on an overhanging limb, and then dropping down to the platform
below. It was in this oak that we decided to build our house. It was a very inaccessible spot,
and to reach it we had to make a wide detour around the back of the hill, and through the fields
of a cranky farmer, who more than once threatened to fill us with bird shot for trespassing
on his property. How were we to carry all our building materials up to this great height? One
would think that the difficulties would be enough to discourage us, but not so with the S.
S. I. E. E. of W. C. I. Nothing daunted us.

DUTCHY TAKES A DARE.

Our first task was to try some other approach to the top of the cliff. At one side of the overhanging
ledge there was a fissure in the rocks which ran from the base of the pillar to the foot of
the cliff. Down this zigzag crevice Dutchy had scrambled, one afternoon, on a dare. We were
rather frightened when he started, because it was a very hazardous undertaking, and we watched
him anxiously, peering over the edge of the precipice. By bracing his back against one of the
walls of the rock, and digging his feet into the niches and chinks of the opposite wall, he
safely made his way to a shelf about half-way down, where he paused to rest. From that point
on the fissure widened out, and a steep, almost vertical incline, sparsely covered with vegetation,
led to the railroad track below. I think he must have become rather frightened at his position,
because he hesitated long before he resumed his downward course, and when he finally did make
the attempt his foot slipped upon the moss-covered rocks and down he fell, scratching and clawing
at every shrub within reach. Believing him to be killed, we rushed down the hill and around
to the foot of the cliff. It probably took us about fifteen or twenty minutes, though it seemed
ages before we came upon our venturesome comrade coolly trying to pin together a rent of inconvenient
location and dimensions in his trousers.

"Say, Dutchy, are you killed?" cried Bill, breathlessly.

"Killed, nothing," he replied, with scorn. "I suppose you fellows think I had a fall. Well,
I didn't."

"You didn't, eh? We saw you slip."

"Oh, go on. I came down that way on purpose. There was no use in picking my way down like a
'fraid cat, when I could just as well take a smooth and easy toboggan slide on the bushes all
the way down."

Smooth and easy toboggan slide! Well, you should have seen the hillside. The course was well
defined by the torn and uprooted shrubs and the pile of branches and vines at Dutchy's feet.
Whether the hare-brained Dutchy really imagined he could glide easily down on the shrubbery,
his frantic movements on the way certainly belied his story, and when, the next day, we proposed
that he repeat the trick, somehow he didn't seem to be very enthusiastic on the subject.

A PATH UP THE FISSURE.

It was up this fissure that we decided to haul materials for our tree hut. Our first task was
to build steps and ladders in the steepest parts. We had no tool for cutting out niches in
the rock, but wherever natural depressions were formed we wedged in sticks of wood between
the side walls to serve as ladder rungs. If no such niches appeared for considerable height,
we would stretch a rope ladder to the next fixed rung. In most places the natural formation
of the rock was such as to afford sufficient footing.

ROPE LADDERS.

The rope ladders were made of two parallel side straps, tightly stretched between the fixed
sticks, and then at intervals of fifteen inches we inserted the ends of the ladder rung between
the strands of the rope. Below and above each rung the rope was bound with cord. The rungs
were notched at the ends to prevent them from slipping out.

After providing a means for scaling the cliff (we called it the Jacob's Ladder), we were still
confronted with the problem how to cart our building materials to the top. It was a very hard
task and you couldn't have hired us to do it under any other circumstances. First, Bill planned
out on paper just how the house was to be built, and we cut all the pieces to the right size
so as not to carry up any superfluous matter. When all was ready the boards and sticks were
loaded on the scow, and ferried over to the cliff. Then we carried them on our backs, three
or four at a time, up the slanting hillside to the first ledge. From there up, owing to the
steepness of the ascent, we had to employ different tactics.

THE DERRICK.

A derrick was constructed of two sticks 10 feet long, which were bolted together at the top,
and secured about five feet apart at the bottom by a cross piece, as shown in Fig. 136. The
derrick was then taken apart and with some difficulty hauled piecemeal up to the next ledge
above. Here it was put together again. The fall and tackle used in our aerial railway was attached
to the apex of the derrick, and the latter was then erected with the legs set into depressions
in the ledge and the upper ends slanting outward but kept from falling over the edge by a rope
tied to one of the fixed rungs set in the fissure. With this derrick we hoisted up the boards
in a few hauls. The job was a very ticklish one, but Bill used the greatest care to prevent
accident. The derrick, rope and tackle were carefully tested before used, and as soon as the
load was attached to the lower pulley block the two who did the loading were instructed to
crawl back into the fissure so as to be out of danger in case anything gave way. At one time
a stick which had been carelessly tied did fall, and it might have badly hurt some one had
we not observed this precaution. When we had raised the material to the second ledge we transferred
operations to the top ledge, and when the materials had been hauled up to this point we finally
rigged up our fall and tackle in the old oak tree itself.

THE TREE HOUSE.

The tree had two large limbs which extended out at a wide angle from the main trunk. Across
these two limbs, at about seven feet out, we laid our first girder, nailing it securely in
place. Then to the main trunk we nailed the second girder on a level with the first. Diagonal
braces were extended from the trunk to support the ends of this girder, and a tie piece was
nailed to the braces, as shown in Fig. 138, to prevent them from spreading. The girders were
rough sticks about 4 inches in diameter and 10 feet long. We cut flat faces on them at the
points where they were nailed to the tree, and then, to make them doubly secured, we nailed
cleats, or blocks of wood, to the tree under them. The floor beams were then laid across and
nailed to the girders. They were cut to a length of 10 feet so as to project beyond the outer
girder to provide for a piazza overhanging the Goblins' Platform. Six floor beams were used,
spaced 20 inches apart. All branches projecting up between the beams were then cut away and
a flooring of slabs was laid on. To the main trunk six feet above the flooring, a stick or
(to use the technical term), "wall plate," was nailed on, and its ends were supported by upright
posts resting on the platform. Thirty inches from the outer end of the platform two more posts
were erected eight feet high and secured by sticks nailed across from the other posts, and
also by a second wall plate connecting their upper ends. Four more posts were erected, one
between each pair of the corner posts, and then we were ready to enclose the framing.

The sidewalls were first clapboarded, because we were afraid the roof would not hold us until
the framing had been strengthened by nailing on the siding. Slab boards were used for this
purpose. Beginning at the bottom, the boards were laid on, each lapping over the one below,
as shown in Fig. 141, so as to shed water. In each side we cut a window opening and nailed
on a window casing of the type shown in Fig. 142, which will be described in a moment. As soon
as the clapboards were applied, we nailed on the rafters and then applied the roofing. The
same principle was here used for shedding water. The lowest board was first laid on, and then
the others were successively applied, each lapping over the one below.

The window casings we used each consisted of a frame about 15 inches square, but with the upper
and lower pieces extending 12 inches beyond one of the side pieces. On these extended pieces
a slideway was formed for the window sash by nailing on two strips of wood about 3/4 inch square
and over them a pair of wider strips projecting inward, so as to overlap the edges of the sash.
The window sash consisted of a frame 13-1/2 inches square, made of 3/4-inch square strips over
which canvas was tightly stretched and tacked. A spool was nailed on at one side for a handle.
These windows were closed only in rainy weather, to keep the water out.

SLIDING DOORS.

We had two doors; one at the back of the house, from which a ladder extended down to the ground,
and another opening out onto the veranda, from which we dropped a ladder down to the Goblins'
Dancing Platform. In order to save space we used sliding instead of swinging doors. The back
door frame was 5-1/2 feet high and the front door frame 6 feet high. The doors were mounted
on the outside of the building. The side posts of each frame were 2-1/2 feet apart, and the
lintel and sill extended 3 feet beyond the side post at one side. The upper face of the lintel
was planed down perfectly smooth, and its edges were tapered off to make a track for the rollers
on the door. The rollers consisted of two spools, which turned on tenpenny nails driven into
the top of the door. At the lower end two more spools were mounted, turning on nails driven
in the bottom edge of the door. The rims of the spools extended slightly beyond the outer face
of the door and rolled against the sill. To keep the water from leaking in at the top a slanting
board was fastened above it, as shown in Fig. 144. The back door was similarly constructed.
Our tree house was completed by a running balustrade around the veranda.

It strangely happened that just after our tree house had been built we received a photograph
from Uncle Ed of a Filipino tree house made of bamboo.

CHAPTER XII.

TROUBLE WITH THE TRAMPS.

We were a proud lot when the house was finally completed. From the veranda we had an excellent
view up and down the river. We could see our camp on the island and keep watch of our goods.
Late one afternoon Dutchy and I were lolling about on the Goblins' Platform, idly watching
a hawk soaring above us. The rest of the boys had returned to the island in canoes an hour
before and left the heavy scow for us to row back. It was drawing near supper time and we had
about decided to start for home, when I chanced to see a scow up the river. It looked exactly
like ours, and in it were two men, evidently drunk, from the way they carried on. A glance
showed me that our scow was not at its moorings. How were we to reach the camp? One of the
men had evidently seen us and was pointing us out to his companion. We rushed down the Jacob's
Ladder, but by the time we reached the river bank they were in midstream and heading rapidly
northward. Our shouts merely brought forth derisive laughter. We were certainly in a predicament.
First we ran back up the cliff, and tried from there to gain the attention of the rest of the
fellows. They evidently saw us but couldn't make out what we wanted. Then we ran down to a
point opposite the island and called to them. But the wind was against us and we couldn't make
them hear, so we had to plunge in and wade across.

A COUNCIL OF WAR.

Immediately we summoned a war council. Dutchy and Jack were chosen by lot to guard the camp,
while the rest of us started in pursuit in canoes. By the time we got under way the sun had
dropped back of the Pennsylvania hills and the shadows were climbing slowly up the Jacob's
Ladder. Swiftly we paddled up-stream, keeping close to the western shore, where the water was
very quiet. Thank you very much, sir: he admired his charity,
but starve rather than accept a coin of Dupont.

A few days after drain Fermin, saw the arrival of his godson Rafael. Was without attachment:
had left the farmhouse.

Fermin came to tell who was in Gibraltar, and that one day those to be shipped to South America.

-
Also you - said the old man sadly - Cursed've been bitten by the
bug, which poisons us a toos.

The strapping young man was sad, discouraged.

Talking to the old man in the door of the hut, looked in with some trepidation, as if fearing
the appearance of Maria de la Luz. On the run to the mountains, Fermin had told all ... everything.

-
Oh, Godfather! And what gorp dao me! I think I'll die ... And poer revenge! Moving sinvergüensa
this world, without my metiese a stab!

Poer not get back to resuscitate pa to kill you ... Burlao many times will the thief, seeing
made a fool, not knowing what happened! ...

In its strong male sadness, what he was desperate absurdity of their situation, to serve man. He
cried because his hand was not the executing of vengeance.

No longer wanted to work. What was to be good? Would return to life of smuggling. Women? ... for
awhile, and then treat them like beasts beats shameless and heartless ... I wanted to declare
war on half the world, the rich, and the governors, who instilled fear with their rifles, and were
the cause of the poor were trampled by the powerful.

Now that the poor people of Jerez walked mad with terror, and worked in the field without raising
eyes on the ground, and the jail was full, and many who once wanted to swallow it whole would
mass to avoid suspicion and persecution, it now began. Iban to see what beast rich were thrown
into the world by destroying one of them his dreams.

The contraband was to entertain. Later, when harvesting crops, worn fire to the barns, farmhouses
incendiary, poison the cattle from the pastures. The who were in prison, awaiting the moment of
execution, Juanon, the Maestrico and other unfortunates who die in
a club, they would have an avenger.

If he found men with enough heart to follow, would make a game of
horse leaving a child at the breast to José María Tempranillo.

For something he knew the mountains. They could prepare the rich. Channel open in the bad,
and could only be saved by giving good money to the poor.

Exaltabo to vent his anger with these threats. He spoke of becoming a robber, with childhood enthusiasm
from riders rustic feel for the road adventurers.

For him, every man offense could only seek his revenge by becoming a thief.

- I kill you - still - but before I die, tell me, Godfather, I will
have acabao with half Jerez.

And the old man, who partook of the same concerns as the waiter nodded. Did well. If he young and
strong, would have a companion in the game.

Rafael did not return. Fleeing from the devil put him in front of Maria de la Luz. Seeing her,
could kill or could lie to mourn as a child.

From time to time, came in search of some old gypsy Fermín, a backpacker
those who sold in cafes and casinos, his meager load of snuff.

-
Grandpa, this is for you ... On behalf of Rafah.

It was money that he sent the smuggler and the old man gave his daughter
silent.

The boy never showed up. From time to time appeared in Jerez, and that was enough to the Goat and
other acolytes of the late Dupont, were hiding in their houses, preventing the display in taverns and
cafes frequented by the smugglers. He came with bowed Cain, and kept them dislike for his former
friendship with the Master!

And is not that they had fear. They were brave ... but city and would not be measured with a raw,
which is passed the week sleeping in the mountains with wolves.

Mr. Fermín let time pass was insensitive to his surroundings, to As was said about him.

One day, the sad silence of the city took out a few hours of their annihilation. Iban a garrote
five men for the invasion of Jerez. The process had gone quickly: the punishment was an urgent
need for good people calmed down.

The entry of workers rebels bulged the course of time, as a revolution full of horrors. The fear made
mute. The same people who had been marching strikers without any attempt to hostility in front
of the houses of the rich, quietly accepted the unprecedented punishment.

They spoke of two dead that night, joining the gentleman drunk with the unhappy writer. Fermín
Montenegro was being chased by homicide, the process was still apart, but nothing lost society
to exaggerate the events, putting one more death on account of the revolutionaries.

Many were sentenced to prison. The statement shed chains with a bounty frightening about the
wretched herd, which seemed to wonder in amazement what he had done at night. Of those sentenced
to death, two were the murderers of the young man desktop: the other three were the class of dangerous
ordeal, for talk, threaten, to believe fiercely that the world had
a right to a share of happiness.

Many people's eyes twinkle mischievously, knowing that the Madrid, the originator of the entry
in the city, only went to prison for some years. Juanon and his comrade expected Trebujena resigned
last ordeal. They did not want to live, I was disgusting life after the bitter disappointments
of the famous night. The Maestrico opened his eyes in amazement maiden
candid, as to resist believing in the evil of men.

They needed his life because he was a be dangerous because the utopia dreamed that the wisdom
of the pass to be less the vast mass of unhappy, as an instrument
of redemption!

And poet without knowing him, his mind, locked in tough shell, spread with the fire of faith,
consoling anxiety of his last moments with the hope that others came pushing back, as he said,
and that these others would eventually run over by all the force of the quantity, as the drops
of water that form the flood. They killed because they were few.

One day be so many that strong, tired of killing, terrified by the immensity of his task bloody, end
up and discouraged, giving up.

Mr. Fermin did not see from this torture more than the silence of
the city, which looked embarrassed, the gesture of fear of the poor
cowardly submission speaking of lords.

A few days forgot all about this event.

A letter came to his hands was his son, of Fermin. I was in Buenos Aires and I wrote showing
some confidence in its future. The early days were tough, but in those lands, with work and
perseverance, was almost certain victory, and he is confident to march forward.

Since then, Mr. Fermin was occupied and shook the morass in which he had sunk pain. Wrote to his son
and waited for his letters. How far it was! If he could go there! ...

Another day he waved a new surprise. Sitting in the sun, at the door of his house, saw the shadow
of a man still with him. He raised his head and screamed.

Don Fernando! ... It was his idol, good Salvatierra, but aged, more sad, his eyes behind his
glasses off blue, as if thoroughly weighed on him all the evils and inequities of the city. 

He
had been released, let him live freely, knowing, without doubt, find anywhere a corner to make
its nest, that his words would be lost without echo in the silence of terror.

To occur at Jerez, old friends fled from him, not wanting to commit.

Other looked at him with hatred, as if from his forced exile was responsible for all events.

But
Mr. Fermin, a former comrade, it was not them. Al joined him, falling in his arms, the rattle of
the strong to drown without being able to mourn.

- Oh, Don Fernando!

... Don Fernando! ...

Salvatierra consoled him. He knew everything. Valor! He was a victim of social corruption, against
thundered that he and his burning of sage. He could still start new life, followed by theirs.
The world is big. Where his son found that there could also look for him.

And some mornings Salvatierra returned to visit his old partner. Suddenly, you missed. They said
sometimes it was in Cadiz, Seville others, wandering through the land of Andalusia, who kept
the memories of their heroism and generosity, the remains of only
being whose love had sweetened its existence.

I could not live in Jerez. The powerful eyes watching him challenge, as if they were to throw
on him he fled the poor, avoiding treatment.

Another month passed. One evening, Maria de la Luz hovering at the door of his house, believed to fall
the ground vanished. He shook his legs, ringing in the ears, all his blood seemed flow into wave
burning his face and removed later, leaving a pale green ... Rafael
was there, wrapped in his blanket, as if waiting.

She tried to flee, escape in the most remote of the hut.

- Maria de la Lu! ... Mariquilla! ...

It was the same sweet and appealing tone that seen in the fence, not
knowing how, she became their steps, approaching timidly, fixing his
eyes teary in the eyes of his former boyfriend.

He too was sad. A melancholy gravity seemed to give a certain elegance, refined outside his rough
fighter.

- Maria de la Lu - Two little words whispered .-- nothing more. You love me and I love you. What
for spend the rest of life rage, as some unhappy? ... Until recently, it was so gross that I
would see dao temptations to kill you. But I talked to Don Fernando and I was convinced with his
wisdom. This is over.

And he said with a wave of energy. It is just the separation, no more stupid jealousy a wretch that
had to rise and she had not wanted, it had a grudge a misfortune which he had no fault.

Flee from there. He despised the land so deeply that it would not even hurt. Leave was the best,
put them between her and many miles of land, many miles water. The distance will erase the bad
memories. Not seeing the city, not seeing their fields, completely forget the sadness that there
had been.

They would go in search of Fermin. He had money for the trip of all. The recent smuggling had been
fat, crazy, astounding in its audacity to the job: endless droves roads through the mountains, under
his gun. He had not been killed, and good fate gave new courage to undertake the long journey
that would change his life.

Knew the young world, and he would, his wife, his godfather and himself. Don Fernando had described
this paradise. Endless bands of wild horses, who were expecting educators legs Rider, huge tracts
of land without an owner, no tyrant, awaiting the hand of man to expel the budding life in
her womb. What better for a farmer Eden game and strong, a slave until then, body and soul of
those who do not work! ...

They would be free and happy in the countryside, where the wildness
and loneliness had kept a piece of clean world of the crimes of civilization,
the selfishness of men; where everything belonged to everyone, but
no other privilege than the work, where the land was pure as air and
the sun and was not disgraced by the monopoly, or torn and degraded
by the cry of "This is mine ... and others to perish from hunger.

"

And this wild life, but free and happy, reharía with forgetting the
virginity of their souls.

       Would be new beings, innocent and industrious, as if just born of
the slime of the earth.

The grandfather shut his eyes staring at the sun, safe in the back that does his duty to land where
it came from, also close them when they arrived on time, loving until
the last moment, and their graves continue the work of work and freedom
their children and grandchildren, happier than they, ignorant of the
cruelties of the ancient world thinking about the idle rich and cruel
lords, as do children in monsters and ogres of the stories.

Maria de la Luz listened moved. Run away from there! Left back so many memories! ... Live the
miserable that had caused the ruin of his family, would persist in his obstinacy simple woman.
She could not be otherwise than that he stole her virginity. But since the thief was dead,
and Rafael, who did not want to deceive accepted generously the situation,
forgive her, accepted everything ... Yes, flee away, as soon as possible!

...

The strapping young man continued to expose their plans. Don Fernando was responsible for convincing
the old man, also give him letters to his friends in America. Fifteen days before embarking on
Cadiz. Run away, flee as soon as a land of scaffolds, where the guns were on a mission to
placate hunger, and he took the poor rich life, honor and happiness! ...

- When we get - continued Rafael - be my wife. Repeat our discussions
of gate.

Better yet. Extremaré my love pa do not think that is in me no bitter memory. Everything happened.
Don Fernando Tié reason. The shame of the body are in little ... Love is what matters, the rest
are concerns for animals.

Your little heart is mine? and therefore I have everything ... Maria de la Lu! Gun classmate!
We will march towards the sun now really born, today begins our love.

Let me kiss you for the first time in my life. Hold me, companion: I see you're mine, you'll
support my strength, my support when you start fight down there ...

And the two young men embraced at the entrance of the hut, gathering their mouths without any dither
carnal passion, staying a long time together, as if the scandal despise people, as if to defy the
fuss his love of an old world that they would leave.

* * * * *

Salvatierra accompanied in Cadiz to the scale of the liner to his comrade, Mr. Fermin crossing
over to the new world, to Rafael and Maria de la Luz.

Cheers No longer meet again.

The world is too big for the poor, always fixed in the same place by the roots of the need.

Salvatierra felt swallowing tears. All his friends, his memories of his past, desvanecíanse
scattered by the death or misfortune.

He stayed alone in a village he had tried to free and no longer knew him. The younger generation
looked at him as a madman who inspired some interest in their asceticism, but did not understand
his words.

A few days after the departure of these friends, out of retirement to go to Cadiz Jerez. He
called a dying man, a comrade in the good times.

Mr. Matacardillos, the owner of the tavern's Rook is definitely dying.

His family implored the visit of the revolutionary, seeing in his presence one last ray of joy
to the patient. "Now is really, don Fernando" escribíanle children. And Don Fernando went to
Jerez, and began to walk the path of Matanzuela, who had followed that path at night in different
direction, after the body of a gypsy.

When he reached the tavern he knew his friend had died a few hours earlier.

It was a Sunday afternoon. Inside, in the only room in the hut, lay over a poor bed the bloated
corpse, no other company that flies that hovered over his face purple.

Outside,

the widow and children, with the resignation of a disgrace luenga waiting half Drinking and attended
to parishioners sitting in the vicinity of the tavern.

The Matanzuela Winning drank, forming a large circle. Don Fernando, standing at the door of the
hut, watching the vast plain, without a man, not a beast, with the monotonous solitude Sunday.

He felt alone, completely alone.

Had lost the last of the companions of his youth revolutionary. Of those who had been shot in
the mountains and faced death or prison by the romance of the revolution, there were none
at his side.

Some fled in desperate race across the sea, spurred by poverty, others rotted in the heart of
the land without the consolation of seeing the Justice and Equality to reign over men.

What's efforts useless! Many sacrifices sterile! ... And the legacy of both work seemed lost forever!
The new generation unaware of the old, refused to receive from his arms, exhausted and weak,
the burden of hatred and hope.

Salvatierra watched with sadness the group of workers. Do not know or pretended not to know.
Not one had set eyes on it.

They talked about the great tragedy that still seemed to have under
their grim burden from the people of Jerez: the implementation of
the five day laborers for the nighttime entry into the city. But speaking
peacefully, without passion, without hatred, as if these were the
executions of bandits surrounded by the famous populist aura.

Only
showed some eagerness to see the value that had died, the gesture
that will escorted to the gallows. Trebujena Juanon and had gone to
bat for what they were: as men incapable of fear or bravado. The other
two murderers had died as a gross. And the memory of them poor Maestrico
almost two real, but two and a half real and attributed this increase
to its submission and discipline. "Being good, you will draw more
than the bad ', I had said. And they repeated it, thinking evil sneer
at rioters trying to drag them into rebellion. Being obedient and
humble, perhaps eventually, with time to collect three reals. A true
happiness ...

The farmhouse Matanzuela what looked like a paradise.
Dupont was the charitable generosity unprecedented. Ensure that the
braceros should hear Mass on Sundays, and from month to month, organized
Communion for the farmhands. Those who in days of idleness were not
home, staying in the farm to keep the religious discussions of a priest
sent from Jerez, had by pm at the tavern, a few drinks paid by the
master.

Dupont was a modern believer, as he said. All roads were
good to get the conquest of souls.

And the laborers, as Zarandillo
confession, "were left wanting," prayed and drank Snooping a bit of
love with mock gravity, and calling him "cousin."

The long stay of
Zarandillo by Salvatierra, and curiosity that inspired it, eventually
overcome the departure of the farmhands. Some were close, and little
by little forming a ring around the rebel. 

One of the oldest spoke
with sarcastic tone. If Don Fernando was in the field to drop harangues
as in other times, wasting time. People were scaled: it was like a
scalded cat the proverb. Not that the farmhands were fine. It was
live, but worse were the those who had poor execution at Jerez.

-
Old - continued that rustic philosopher - even some that you have
your market and of his time. We know that not getting rich with his
sermons and many others, we know who have suffered and they are very
hard tragao ... But look at its market to kids.

He pointed to those
who had been sitting no closer to Salvatierra, all young. From time
to time looked to revolutionary insolent eyes. "A guy a liar, like
all those presenting in search of workers! Those who had followed
their doctrines rot land in the cemetery, and he was there ... Less
sermons and more wheat ... "They were ready, had seen enough to learn
and were with the giver. True friend the poor was the master with
his wages, and if you gave up wine, the better. Besides, what could
caring about the fate of workers at that guy who dressed gentleman,
but as a threadbare a beggar, and had no calluses on their hands?
What he wanted was to live at their expense, a liar like so many others.

Salvatierra
guess these thoughts in hostile eyes.

THE ICE BOAT.

School commenced on the 20th of September that year, so we hadn't much time to spare. Work
was begun immediately on the ice boat. Our first ice boat was rather a crude one. A 2 by 4
inch scantling 14 feet long was used for the backbone of the boat. The scantling was placed
on edge, and to lighten it and improve its appearance it was tapered fore and aft from a point
4 feet from the bow end. The thickness of the ends of the backbone was but 2 inches, as shown
in Fig. 163. To the under edge of the backbone, 5 feet from the forward end, a crosspiece was
nailed. This crosspiece was a 1-inch board 6 inches wide and 9 feet long. Braces were then
run from the ends of the crosspiece to the forward and rear ends of the backbone, and at the
rear end several boards nailed across the braces served as a seat for the boat.

Our next task was to rig up the runners. For these we used skates, which were so arranged that
we could remove them whenever we wanted to. Three blocks of wood were used for the runner shoes.
Two of them were cut from a 2 by 4 scantling and measured a foot in length. The third block
was only 1 inch thick, but was otherwise of the same dimensions. The skates were laid face
downward on the blocks with the clamping levers open; then we marked the places where the clamping
jaws touched the wood and drilled holes at these points. The forward end of each block was
also tapered off to fit flat against the face of the skate. Then by inserting the jaws in the
holes and closing the levers, the skate was clamped to the block, just as it would be to a
shoe. The two 2-inch blocks were bolted to the ends of the crosspiece, but the third block
needed further attention, as it was to be used for the rudder or steering runner.

The rudder post was shaped from a block of hardwood 3 inches square and 10 inches long. Two
inches from the lower end saw cuts were made in the side of the block to a depth of 3/4 inch.
Then with a chisel the sides were split off, forming a large pin with a square shank 8 inches
long. Next the corners of the shank were cut off, rounding it to a diameter of 1-1/2 inches.
The runner block was fastened securely to the head of the rudder post with screws. A 1-1/2-inch
hole was now drilled into the backbone at the stern end to receive the rudder post. A tiller
was next cut out of a 1-inch board to the shape shown in Fig. 167. A slot was cut in the end
of the tiller, and the latter fitted snugly over the top of the post, where it was held in
place by screws threaded in through the sides. The Study on the life and works of the distinguished German jurist explained in brief summarize
their main writings and in the large number of critical notes that accompany a version has been
taken to complete the original text, in view of later works, putting it in line with the latest philosophical
and historical research. Finally, in the part referring to the German civil law, not only indicated
the main changes made to it after the publication of the encyclopedia, but the most important differences
between the former and positive law.

Volume I consists of 336 pages and includes:

Warning of the translators and annotators .-- News about the life
and works of .-- Preface Ahrens the author .-- Introduction.

Principles of Philosophy of Law: Groundwork of the idea of ​​law .-- Exhibition its capital
.-- Critical elements of the main systems of law .-- Forms, sources
immediate and mediate .-- .-- The State Division of private law and
organic groups, as the purpose of life.

History of Law: Philosophical principles of this story .-- .-- Periods
capital law pre-historic East .-- Right, look at general .-- The Hindu
.-- The Village Zendo .-- Egypt .-- China .-- The Hebrews .-- Appendices
.-- Muslim law.

Volume II consists of 464 pages and contains:

History of Law in Greece
and Rome: Difference between Greek law .-- .-- Rights Law Judgement
.-- Roman historical and philosophical.

Legal history of Christian: Right Germanic various times up today
.-- Law of non-German Germanic peoples Germanic law .-- peoples Latinos
.-- Law of Hungarian law Slavs .-- .-- Judgement philosophical history.

Volume

III contains 384 pages and contains:

Private law system: The concept, purpose and method of the same division.

General part: Subject of Law .-- .-- Foreign Object of the legal,
origination and termination Rights to acquire modes .-- .-- Information
law legal relationships space and time .-- Protection of Rights .--
The possession.

Special section: The right of individuals .-- .-- Right of property
law of obligations, contracts and classes of society .-- .-- law marriage
law, family law and inheritance law .-- professions.

Public law, law of the State and society .-- international law.

Legal methodology.

The cost of the work, 18 pesetas in Madrid and 21 provinces.

Spanish pasta bound, 4.50 pesetas.

CALDERON DE LA BARCA

Select theater,
preceded by a critical study of D. Marcelino Menéndez Pelayo, 4 volumes,
8. º, 48 and 56 reais. Contains:

VOLUME = I =

Critical study, by
D. Marcelino Menéndez Pelayo.

RELIGIOUS AND PHILOSOPHICAL DRAMAS

Life
is a dream .-- Devotion of the Cross .-- The prodigious magical .--
The Constant Prince. The eye of one of these was pried open, linked
through the other and then closed again. One of the screw eyes was now screwed into the head
of the jib-boom and the other was threaded into the end of the backbone. The upper corner or
"head" of the jib was tied to a jib-halyard, which passed through a block at the top of the
mast, and was secured on a cleat on the backbone. On the jib we used two sheets. They were
attached to the end of the jib-boom and passed on opposite sides of the mast through blocks
on the crosspiece to the stern of the boat, where separate cleats were provided for them.

This completed our ice boat, and a very pretty little boat she was. It was with great reluctance
that we furled the sails, unstepped the mast, and stowed away the parts in our attic until
old Jack Frost should wake up and furnish us with a field of smooth ice.

THE SLEDGE.

Our sledge was patterned after a picture of one used by Peary in one of his Arctic expeditions.
First we got four strips of hickory 1 inch thick, 1-1/2 inches wide and 8 feet long for the
runners and side rails. Beginning 18 inches from the ends, each stick was tapered gradually
to a thickness of 1/2 an inch. Then we made eight spreaders or spacing blocks, each 1-1/2 inches
thick, 2-1/2 inches wide and 11 inches long. In each end a notch 1/2 inch deep was cut to receive
the runners and side rails. In the edge of each block, midway of its length, a slot 1 inch
deep was cut to receive the cross sticks of the sledge. First we nailed the runners and rails
to the blocks, fastening them with screws, spacing the blocks 16 inches from the ends, and
20 inches apart from center to center. Been so worthy, so
severe, so natural, so without fear or fuss vulgar female who is honored or presumed to be, as if
they were two duchesses and princesses who have had the whim going out at night to roam the streets
and had been persecuted for a few minutes, by a footman spoiled and vain enough to believe seductive.

The
Count, nevertheless, perhaps because it was so, perhaps because the
self-deceived him, noting he had believed in subtle gestures, the
gesture, something that has barely been see and you could barely see
or evaluate, but by a delicate understanding like yours and so adept
in affairs, that the married woman he had been less indifferent and
more favorable, which could be glimpsed in his face contentment, being
satisfied vanity followed by a young man as principal and so handsome,
and until I looked once or twice sideways and concealment, with a
curious sympathy.

Would you write, then, to the married? But what right had I to do? What could I say? What if the
husband was jealous and took the letter? Do not be exposed from the outset to preclude or hinder
the future and greatly to the success of his adventure?

The count withdrew, therefore, writing to the married.

It seemed the single most beautiful and distinguished, but he was
in high dudgeon against it.

There forged it does not delude itself that there was no doubt about
it.

Ines had no more for him than a junkyard dog. Not conceive explained that serenity Olympic that
gentle godliness, which is reconciled by a strange contrast with the humility and modesty, the
Count was suspecting if Ines would be idiotic, but remember your eyes, graceful gait and intelligent
expression of her beautiful face, and had to confess that either he did not know what they were
women, Ines was most discreet mother was born.

How, then, write to Inesita? This was more difficult than writing to Dona Beatriz.

Incur no hypocrisy here in the foolish imagine, when writing a story that moral society has a
much higher than it actually is. Say things like it is.

Is singular, it is not logical, it is absurd, but the following happens. So it is in the customs
that any gentleman say his bold thinking a married woman, that it offended rarely. For virtuous it
is, is merely rejected or gently disabuse the claimant. Will not be offended, when in fact you
had proposed the infringement of a moral law civil and religious, his disgrace and his home, and perhaps
the vileness of a theft of material goods if you do have a child. Instead, just be single, as
it is not completely lost not considered injured if you are asked to presuppose love without
marriage in an explicit way or implied, and indeed, the lack of which then induce the single
would be much less than that sought in the marriage. The single, free, not deceive her husband,
not fail in any undertaking, not to expose anyone for legitimate heir who ought not to be.

This
is accurate.

There is no argument against it is worth. And yet, just be seductive however brutal, irreverent
and outrageous that is, who dares claim a maiden, without proposing good order, and hardly
any Tenorio, for frail, sickly and fehuelo God or the devil already done so do not tempt the
ford, declares with unabashed boldness and daring to intending all of a married woman.

Our hero, without getting into philosophical about what has been said, I had only known. So,
by this consideration, although not attend to others, was more difficult to write to Inesita
that Dona Beatriz. Write to Dona Beatriz, as married, use, practice, jurisprudence established,
it consented without pass for libel. Write to Ines, however, could not vejarla be without despising
and cruelly, as the Count did not tell or give rise to understanding that aspired to marry
her.

Now, the Count and was in love, or thought of marrying anyone, let alone with Ines: only aspired
to hang, but the Count was also their moral, and there was no time, good it was, that he deserved
to stoop to lie and deceive a poor girl, into believing that he could
marry her.

So write withdrew Count Dona Beatriz for reasons of prudence and strategy amatory, and withdrew
Inesita write more delicate considerations. But why not withdrew to know them and treat them both.
Let him brooding and run the most wise to this, and we fast forward,
penetrating invisible in our heroes home and knowing them before the
Count.

IV

The most able and judicious critic, perhaps, among those who are in Spain I have already done
two or three Sometimes, when judging other novels of mine, a favor and disfavor do not think I
deserve, but if I deserve this time away from mend, incur more fully than ever in its censorship,
which Moreover flatters me. The critic assumes that all my characters are me, which makes
a Proteus me because I had enough different characters portrayed,
and further assumed that everyone talks about, in the same situation
as I speak, with erudition, discreet subtleties and philosophical
spirit someone of his lowly status and even sex, since women often
spend my lists.

In this story, where, as the title indicates, the most important characters each to his own
style, they will play smart, sin, could not help, contrary to the critic wants. The blame,
if any, because I refuse to plead guilty, is in the choice of subject. Already chosen, I have
no recourse but to make my heroes, retaining each of its nature, its passions and its unique features,
all as discreet, subtle and ready know and I can because this has
to be the major defect of these, and all them, the protagonist of
the story.

I make this statement here for Dona Beatriz, who will soon hear about my readers not catch them
off guard. Doña Beatriz was listísima.

I do not remember which book, treatise or letter of the Old or New Testament, is said to the spirit
blows where it pleases with that statement is more than enough to justify the plausibility that
the spirit, whether it be divine, whether it be evil, it would blow being penetrated a girl
of twenty years, he had no Dona Beatriz, born and raised in a the province of Cordoba. There is
also another macaronic sentence full of truth, which reads thus: Quod natura non dat, non proestad Salamanca,
which can be inferred, as Logically, that Mother Nature has no need
of Salamanca, or say to yourself in deep studies and throughout the
world try to make very subtle and understanding to those who like
to promote, even if they are women, and women's place.

This issue had Dona Beatriz, who, on his innate clearance, although there was no studied in
any college, had some knowledge acquired in the common conversation
her husband Don Braulio, who enjoyed a reputation for subject is illustrated,
although only 3,000 had ESP annual salary.

Doña Beatriz and Ines, orphan of father and mother since childhood, had been in care and raised
in the village priest's house. Were not entirely poor. They had some finquillas, who came to
produce, well-managed, real income about 4,000 each. This was difficult for the people, not
to instill a violent passion, to marry any of them with rich gentlemen or lords, and as both girls
were fine, real girls, was not likely to have wanted to marry with
any carrier or no hick farmer rustic and ignorant.

Priest Father suspicion, but later, he had educated his eyes of pure evil good, and that result
of their good education, went to left on the shelf images. Fortunately no happen. Revenue Manager,
Don Braulio, tried to Dona Beatriz, and found that nice and unobtrusive that he loved her. She thought
he had found a man at Don Braulio who, though old, could fall in
love with his talent and other noble garments of the soul, and love,
or convinced that they were, were married after a short courtship.

The priest tutor who was very old, died a few months after this marriage.

Absolutely nothing left to his pupils.

Of a sister, a widow, was the priest's nephew, twenty-eight years old, called Paco Ramírez. This
was the universal heir of his uncle, consisting of the assets of the inheritance the house with
furniture and books, worth around 40,000 real and liabilities in various debts, passing, also
real, 30,000.

Paco Ramírez was a very handsome boy, and so restrained, economical,
active and fruitful in resources, 50,000 reals with his father had
left him money, using barley and wheat buying cheap grape harvest
time, making wine drinking a few pipes I had, then by selling loads
to carriers, and, in short, a thousand other wheeling and dealing
However, while all legitimate, not only held loosely at his mother,
but who dressed majeza it up with elegance, the use of people, and
was gradually increasing the capital.

Often the priest had thought that his nephew might be a good husband
to any its two eyes, but as it was a good game, the priest stopped
his thought and purpose, and never did anything to be done.

Paco, and Ines Beatriz they loved as brothers. Paco, who was six years older than most of them,
and ten more than the second, which at first seems enormous age difference, they had a baby
that he described as paternal. They were daughters of the illustrious gentleman people, even though
they had come to such poverty, and he, a plebeian, and archiplebeyo
all four sides, and under the blessings of fortune that his uncle's
eyes, how had he dared not even imagine that he could marry either?

So, Don Braulio married Dona Beatriz, and soon, as we have said, died priest, who was excellent
subject.

Ines, as was natural, he went to live with his sister and brother, followed in Seville, and
then followed this lively capital of Spain.

Since leaving the place left Paco entrusted to the administration of assets it had, with the
assurance that no one had to manage them better.

Paco, in effect, responded to that trust. So in the time our story begins, when appear in the
Buen Retiro our two heroines, had between them just over 8,000 real year, which together with
the 12,000 counted evil Don Braulio, totaling an annual taleguita
very run and long-waisted.

Even if life were removed, as everything is expensive, and well treated,
and dressed with a certain class for class, income and salary are
completely consumed, and thanks if you were not sometimes in distress.

To get out of them, living lavishly and rise to higher position in the social hierarchy are two
paths, lit by hope, to the acute consideration of Dona Beatriz, which brooded a lot about these
things since he left the place, already married.

Doña Beatriz was the highest form of intelligence and knowledge of her husband. Attributed
their lack of success in the world to neglect, contempt or disdain that Don Braulio was all practical,
a certain lack of stimulus that could see into his soul, and was
inclined to believe that if she encouraged and spurred the soul of
her husband and away from theoretical vague dreams and distractions
that led to nothing, it was still possible to see him as Minister
of Finance, or at least Director of Monopolies.

The other point, it was as the foundation or cornerstone on which stood Beatriz the castle of
his ambitious hopes, was the beauty, the elegance and distinction of his sister Ines.

Doña Beatriz, married and with a man who worshiped and wanted, and
who was indebted to have left the place where he drowned, and spaced
by large cities, limiting its mission to achieve the greatness to
serve as a spur to the reluctant will of her husband; but Inesita,
single and free and full of attractive, she would know and enforce
complete with his wisdom, saw a reef Beatriz still intact, a rich
mining of all property, and prosperity encumbrances.

Import declaration in honor of Dona Beatriz, who draw on their imaginations to the ascending process
of each other plan of happiness, now using Don Braulio, Inesita prays never occurred to him put
in the composition of the least touch his picture sinful. Nothing thief comes. Doña Beatriz I wanted
to play fair.

Don Braulio had to be first-rate character without stain nails, and Ines was to be a countess,
marquise, and who knows if Duchess, without the least levity and all ecclesiastical and civil requirements.

Beatriz's
pride, his aristocratic decorum, which was, though born poor diapers, and their Christian beliefs,
alive and fervent as educated by a priest ejemplarísima of virtue, repelled any remedy that
might tarnish, but his desire to rise and raise your family will
suggest, in his view, decent and honest means by which to achieve
wealth, honors and awards, with ease and without dishonor or guilt.

Doña Beatriz fully discovered their plans and hopes and Inesita Don Braulio. He feared to frighten
and scare saliesen contradiction and opposition. Cautious and cunning, deftly bring the dream of
one and the other in the ways that she deemed conducive at the end
to which he aspired, and already committed and placed in him, and
when was very difficult to return ago, it declared its purpose and
show the term, if not see him.

With Ines, above all, that was about poetry and inexperienced, Beatriz came to top caution and dissimulation.

From
the night they had gone to the Buen Retiro had spoken several times
of the gentle knight that had followed, but never discover all his
thinking.

Doña Beatriz, by the phrases he had heard the Earl of Alhedín and his companions, by the car he
had seen and some news that after he had collected with skill, know the Count was single, very
rich, very noble, no father, and a mother who had no will but yours. Now, what is impossible
that the Count would fall in love Inesita resolutely and marry her?

More mixed marriages have been and see every day.

With a little luck and with rare discretion of Dona Beatriz was deemed gifted, well Inesita could
marry the Count. Ines was, as mentioned above, an adorable creature. Until his indifference
to its spirit, slept all ambition, could contribute to winning.

Nothing will damage both the other girls in this to catch a good marriage, as the naive and ill-disguised
effort to catch him.

Thus, Beatriz from sleeping with his sister and did not seek to awaken
their ambition.

That indifferent and sublime dream was a powerful weapon which should not be detached. She,
tell until a suitable opportunity came, would lead to her sister without removing the poetic
sleepwalking.

Sleepwalking and everything mattered, however, that Ines should move itself, and for this Dona
Beatriz had already played, and even thought to touch, any other
spring of your soul less the ambition and greed.

With these plans and intentions, the evening of the Earl heard at
the Ministry of Finance who their unknown, they talked alone in his
poor house, while waiting Don Braulio, who was working in the Secretariat.

-
I do not understand, Ines - Beatriz said, sitting in an armchair in
front of his sister -. It was
hinged to the floor of the passageway, and swung up against a frame set in the passageway.
At the top was a board whose lower edge lay flush with the edge of the door when it was closed.
For the combination lock we used a couple of spools, each with one head cut off and the central
hole plugged up with a stick of wood. In the floor and the top board of the frame, holes were
drilled just large enough for the shanks of the spools to fit snugly in them. Next we made
a trip to a hardware store for a file and a couple of large copper washers, about 1-1/4 inches
in diameter. The washers were fastened to the inner ends of the spools after they had been
pushed through the hole. The washer on the door came just to the edge of the door, while the
other extended below the door frame and lapped under the door washer. Then in the edge of the
washer on the frame a notch was filed, while in the other washer two notches were filed, so
as to leave a tooth which fitted snugly into the notch of the first washer (see Figs. 188,
189). The door was locked by turning both the washers until the notch and tooth came in line
with each other, then pushing the tooth through the notch, and turning the washers so that
the frame washer hooked over the door washer. Then the door could be opened only when the tooth
and notch were brought in line.

On the head of each spool we pasted a disk of white cardboard, the edge of which was graduated,
as in Fig. 190. Then we had a secret combination, say 11-19, which meant that when the spools
were turned so that the number 11 on the door spool came in line with the number 19 on the
frame spool the tooth and notch would be in line, and the door could then be opened. Of course,
this combination was known to the members of the club only, and any one outside who tried to
open the door might have tried for some time without bringing the tooth and notch into line
with each other. Occasionally we changed the combination by loosening the screws which held
the washers, and turning them so that the notch and tooth came opposite different numbers on
the dials. This was done so that if any one should chance to learn our combination he could
not make use of it very long.

CHAPTER XVI.

SCOOTERS.

"Hello, Dutchy! What in thunder have you got there?"

It was Bill who spoke. We were on our way home for the winter holidays, and had been held up
at Millville by Reddy Schreiner, who had informed us that Dutchy was down by the river with
the boat to give us a sail up to Lamington.

A vision of a fleet ice boat skimming up the river at express train speed swam before our eyes.
But the next moment, as we turned the corner into River Street, we were surprised by the sight
of our old scow just off the pier at anchor, and in open water. It was rigged up with a jib
and mainsail, which were flapping idly in the wind. It had also been altered by decking over
the top, with the exception of a small cockpit, evidently for the purpose of keeping out the
water when she heeled over under the wind. We were disappointed and quite annoyed at not finding
the ice boat on hand; furthermore, our annoyance was considerably heightened by Dutchy's broad
grin of evident delight at our discomfiture. "The river wasn't all frozen over," he explained,
"and we couldn't bring the ice boat down, so we rigged up the scow and she came down splendidly."

A SAIL IN THE SCOW.

There was nothing to do but to jump in, though I, for one, would have taken the train in preference
had there been one inside of two hours. Dutchy, however, seemed to be in a surprisingly good
humor, and kept up a lively chatter about things that the club had made in our absence. The
skis, which have already been described on page 42, had been built under Reddy's guidance,
and they had already used them on Willard's Hill, coasting down like a streak and shooting
way up into the air off a hump at the bottom. Then there was the toboggan slide down Randall's
Hill, and way across the river on the ice.

OUR CRAFT STRIKES THE ICE.

Dutchy talked so incessantly that we hadn't noticed the field of ice which we were nearing.
Just at this point Bill turned around with an exclamation.

"Here, Dutchy, you crazy fellow, where are you going to? Hard to port, man--hard aport--or
you will crash into the ice!"

But Dutchy only grinned nervously.

"I tell you, you will smash the boat!" Bill cried again, making a dive for the steering oar;
but just then the boat struck the ice, and both Bill and I were thrown backward into the bottom
of the boat. But the boat didn't smash.

There was a momentary grinding and crunching noise, and, much to my surprise, I found that
the old scow had lifted itself clean out of the water, and was skating right along on the ice.
Then Dutchy could control himself no longer. He laughed, and laughed, as if he never would
stop. He laughed until the steering oar dropped from his hands, and the old scow, with the
head free, swung around and plunged off the ice ledge with a heavy splash into the open water
again. Then Reddy, who was almost equally convulsed, came to his senses. "Now you've done it,
Dutchy; you're a fine skipper, you are! How do you expect to get us back to shore again?" The
steering oar was left behind us on the ice, and there we were drifting on the open water, with
no rudder and no oar to bring us back.

THE SCOOTER SCOW.

The only thing we could do was to wait until the wind or current carried us to the ice or land.
In the meantime Dutchy, who had suddenly sobered down when we took our water plunge, explained
how he had rigged up the scow to travel both on ice and on water. He called the rig a sled
boat, but the name by which such a rig is now known is a "scooter." It was Dutchy's idea primarily,
but Reddy had engineered the work. Along the bottom of the scow two strips of hickory had been
nailed to serve as runners. The hickory strips had been bent up at the forward end, as shown
in Fig. 191. Each runner was shod with a strip of brass, fastened on with flathead screws,
which were countersunk, so that the heads should not project below the brass. This virtually
made a sledge out of the old scow, and didn't spoil it for use on the water.

A SPRIT SAIL.

A sprit sail and jib were rigged up. The dimensions of these sails, which were taken from a
book in Mr. Van Syckel's library, are given in the illustrations. A sheet of heavy muslin was
made to measure 7 feet square, as indicated by dotted lines in the drawing; then the corners
were cut off along the full lines shown in the illustration. The edges were now hemmed all
around, and the lower edge of the sail was lashed to a boom, 7 feet 6 inches long. To the luff
were attached a number of mast rings, which were slipped over a stout mast projecting about
5 feet 6 inches above the deck of the boat. The peak of the sail was held up by a spar called
a sprit. The sprit was sharpened at each end, and the point at the upper end was inserted in
a loop of heavy cord fastened to the peak of the sail, while the lower point of the sprit rested
in the loop of a rope on the mast, called a "snotter." The snotter was a short piece of rope
with a loop at each end. It was wrapped around the mast, as shown in the drawing, with one
loop holding it in place, like a slip knot, and the other supporting the end of the sprit.
A single halyard was used to raise this sail. It was attached to the boat and passed over a
block in the mast. When raising the sail it was first partly hoisted, then the sprit was hooked
in the loop and the snotter, after which the throat halyard was drawn taut. Then the snotter
was pulled up the mast as far as it would go, flattening out the sail. The jib-sail was made
out of the large corner piece left when cutting the mainsail. The dimensions of the jib-sail
are given in Fig. 194. It was such a small sail that no boom was used with it. In place of
a rudder the steering oar had to be used. This was made of a rake handle with a large trowel
blade fastened to the end of it. The sharp blade cut into the ice, and so steered the scow
when it was running as an ice boat, and in the water the blade offered sufficient resistance
to act as a rudder.

SCOOTER SAILING.

But to return to our sail home to Lamington, we were not out on the open water long before
the current carried us back to the ice ledge. Reddy jumped off and soon returned with the steering
oar; then we proceeded on our way homeward, now in the water and now on ice. Once or twice
the scow was unable to climb out of the water, because she had not sufficient headway, and
was clumsy and heavy with four boys aboard. Then we had to push off until we could get a sufficient
start. It struck me that while Dutchy was quite clever to think of such a rig, yet it was very
clumsy and capable of much improvement. Bill wasn't saying very much all this time, and I could
see he was doing a lot of thinking. Evidently he was planning some improvement, but Bill was
a very considerate fellow, and did not want to spoil Dutchy's pleasure just then by telling
him how much better a scooter he might have built. It wasn't until after supper, when a meeting
of the S. S. I. E. E. of W. C. I. was called, that Bill came out with his scheme.

A MEETING OF THE SOCIETY.

"Why not mount the sailing canoe on runners, instead of the scow? You would have a very light
rig then, and it would sail like a streak."

"Mr. President," said Reddy, "your plan sounds first-rate, but how are you going to fasten
runners onto the canoe?"

"I've thought all that out," replied Bill. "If we can only get hold of a pair of sleigh runners
it won't take long to rig up the sled boat."

Dutchy, who had looked rather crestfallen at a suggestion of an improvement on his pet invention,
now suddenly brightened up.

"I know where we can get the sleigh runners!" he exclaimed. "Dad has an old ramshackle sleigh
in the barn that is just falling to pieces with dry rot. I'll ask him for it to-night."

"Do you think you can get it?" inquired Bill.

"I guess so," Dutchy answered, rather doubtfully. "But say, suppose we send a delegation to
see him about it?"

AN INTERVIEW WITH MR. VAN SYCKEL.

This was agreed upon, and in the morning, as soon as breakfast had been downed, the entire
society marched in a body into Mr. Van Syckel's library. I was appointed spokesman, with Bill
to back me, while the rest of the party were strung out behind, with Dutchy bringing up the
rear. Mr. Van Syckel was not the man to take much interest in boys' work, but we happened to
strike him at the right moment, and before our interview was over we had told him all our experiences
of the summer before and all our plans for the future. Then we did a good turn for Dutchy,
too. Mr. Van Syckel had always considered his boy a "know-nothing," and was very much surprised
to find that he had invented the scooter scow. Why, he actually seemed proud of his son, much
to Dutchy's embarrassment. After that there was no trouble about getting the sleigh runners,
and Mr. Van Syckel forgot the objections he had offered at first.

THE SCOOTER CANOE.

Naturally we were very much elated at our success, and straightway made for the barn, where
we began operations on the scooter canoe. The sleigh was an old-fashioned affair, with rather
broad wooden runners. First we removed the body of the sleigh, and then the runners were cut
down to a height of about 15 inches. We spaced them apart about 28 inches, and connected them
with four crosspieces at the top. The runners were now placed over our larger canoe, with forward
ends about on a line with the mast, and the crosspieces were fastened with screws to the gunwales.
As an additional security, a pair of crosspieces were now run under the canoe at each end and
fastened with screws to the keel. At the bow the keel was shod with a strip of brass. The rudder
was taken off the boat, and an oar lock was fastened to the stern to hold the steering oar.
In place of lee boards we nailed a couple of thin boards over each runner, as shown in the
drawing. We were in a hurry to finish this, as our vacation was short, so we used on the scooter
canoe the sails that we had made for our ice boat. This required a bowsprit, but as we had
little time to spare we used the jib-boom of the ice boat, nailing it to the deck beam of the
canoe. We decided that the jib-sail could be used without a boom, as we had done with the scow.
The mast was braced by stays attached to the ends of the runners and bowsprit. This spread
of canvas was far greater than that originally provided for sailing the canoe, but the heavy
runners on each side helped to keep the boat on even keel, and then to further balance the
sail a board was nailed across the aft end of the boat. This overhung the runners about 18
inches each side, and in a strong wind we could sit out on the windward end of this board,
thus preventing the scooter from heeling over too far.

CHAPTER XVII.

AN ARCTIC EXPEDITION.

As soon as our scooter canoe was completed we prepared for the long-planned winter expedition
to Willow Clump Island. The weather conditions were ideal. We had had ten days of steady cold
weather, which had followed a heavy fall of snow, so that we could tramp up the island on snow
shoes, or we could use our scooter canoe and scooter scow on the river. It was out of the question
to use our skate sails or the ice boat on the river, and the canal would be serviceable only
in case the wind should blow from a southerly quarter. But we stowed them on the sledge for
use on Lake Placid.

On the Tuesday morning following Christmas we made the start. I do not regret gratitude,
but I want to finish build our affection, that you owe me something. I care the child as if
it were mine, and when I ascend to you or leave you as poor, in short, where appropriate, I Myself
will take you where you are, if small, will be well-bred; and if grown man, educated as God commands,
in the physical, made strong lad, moral, indeed a man. "

Sad was the separation, but the need was law. Journeyed to Valladolid husband and wife, durándoles
long time the bitterness of not getting the little boy with his brothers, but four months was
somewhat consoled, because Dona Manuela again declared that he was on tape. The change of scenery
should take the blame. Before the year, Jose was the father of another creature.

Apart weird way to have to trust a child to foreign hands, and excluding
fertility Manuela, the existence of Don Jose was not such as to weave
with it a novel.

In many cities was, the work consumed his days and nights the coffee and the leisure reading
newspapers, who was very fond, preferring to progressives: the house, perhaps never considered not
certain, always had little or no attachment. Each transfer was auction, and thus could refer
to when old than in many or few years of service had stayed in forty-two beds, past and obeyed by twenty
offices in more than thirty heads, none of whom he could complain. Don José was born to an employee,
his low intelligence not allowed the luxury of having his own ideas, and it lacked character
and initiative exposure to be a martyr for getting to reform routines. Their impressions, usually
little intense, also kept him away from the excitement and apathy: its great virtue was to love honored
to work with that tenacity of the middle reaches the enviable record name. Something, however,
infuriated him: Carlism. To speak against the tiger Maestrazgo, to Don Luis Fernandez de Cordova
on top of Zumalacárregui and the Espartero clouds, he encouraged his eyes, his tongue gained
strength, color words, and did wonders with the memory. He knew few details of battles, fighting,
games and both armies were marching from the first attempts of Don Carlos María Isidro to the
embrace of Vergara, so that, for the months when the action begins this story followed with great
interest the second significant rise of the absolutist, who always called rebels, because the
word seemed to wrap something offensive. As never left home, his main desire was to buy her newspaper
supplements, flyers or extraordinary which at the year 1872 were published in prodigious numbers, and few
friends went to see him knew their favorite conversation was the course of the war, news of
which he commented with memories of the campaign from 33 to 40, and military movements then,
now, by way of his, to be repeated. But what really impressed listening to was that when dealing
with priests who sent items, spoke of them as the other leaders, Full disregarding his priestly
character, but despite his hatred Carlism exploited the occasion to condemn the conduct of the clergy
who did this. Were just judge them as military commanders greater or lesser importance, but not
daring to download its outrage on them because as ministers of peace, leave the field to kill
fellow men. Sometimes phrases that eluded him, implied that the clergy did not want it, but never
out of his mouth insults and aggressive phrases, and if someone said them in his presence, not
only abstained from him chorus, but seeking to twist the spin conversation. People of their
privacy, knowing that this was the foundation were Fates of adjectives hard to talk about bad
priests, and not spare time instead of compliment to any chaplain who was distinguished by
good thing, but with this we Don Jose does not say in a clear its views on the people of the
cloth. Respect a moral, was what the vulgar call a saint. His fidelity to Manuela, even the
time of his youth, bordered on the unbelievable, and the children fell out of pure good. A
his greatest pleasures was that Leocadia you read the newspapers, whose news commented war,
as if to himself, while he rolled the cigarettes he had to smoking the next day. At the moment
unfolded treasures of erudition, referring many Olózaga anecdotes, O'Donnell, Gonzalez Brabo,
Sixto House, Asensio Calvo and Fernandez Rivers. Another of his favorite subjects of conversation
was to explain the cause of the grudge I had the Bourbons, continually citing as one of the
books you most enthusiastic, a booklet published after the Revolution of 68, in whose pages
contained statistics of victims that cost Spain dynasty since Philip V came to reign. Many
Sometimes she said: "What language the numbers! Since 1672, when Charles II was still alive
until 1868, the year that there were more executed for political crimes was 66. "

In 1872 Don José was revolutionary and hardened, and his idol Don Juan Prim "If he were alive
- repeated often - we would not have civil war! "

When he was sprawled on the couch, called Correspondence.

- Let old papers now, Dad, Pepe and Miller bring news.

- Well, my dear, good, but at least read the parts taken from the Gazette, but that does not say
ever the truth.

Leocadia picked up the paper and, approaching the light, read as follows:

"MINISTRY
OF THE WAR .-- Extract from telegraphic received in this Ministry
up early today:

»Catalonia .-- The Brigadier said yesterday plowing
action with all the factions together Gerona province, which broke,
causing many casualties.

Lieutenant Colonel Pina attacked his column to the factions gathered from Cosco, Torres, Baltondra,
Ferrer and Moline, that, in number 400 men, were in demand Olsana contribution. The enemy left
the village, leaving the troops held 13 prisoners, including the aforementioned Moline and other
officers, causing 11 deaths, appearing in this issue the leader Cosco, and seizing plus 24
rifles and other weapons scratched and effects of war.

"Basque Provinces .-- Pursued by the column heading to latro Arana-rebels
commanded ...

* * * * *

(Don Jose, interrupting ):--¡ That's it!

"Latro, latro-fascists!

       

Leocadia continued:

       * * * * *

»..... Led by Soroeta, Goizueta fell last night from some villages of Mount Oyarzun. In the
province of Vizcaya, the latest news, there are no more than scattered
Maidagan heading.

       In the rest of the peninsula no new extraordinary happens.

"

* * * * *

Suddenly sounded on the door of the house two knocks.

- There's your brother down, daughter, down.

Leocadia took the key off the dresser, and left without rushing. They heard little in the step
footsteps drowned out by laughter and Leocadia entered with two men in the room young, but
of a different type.

Pepe was the man that his sister Leocadia a woman, a Madrid purebred, pale, intelligent eyes, medium
height, easy word and movement fast: the other was his friend Miller,
who made love to Leocadia.

Pepe gentleman dressed like poor: Millán as being clean worker who takes time to groom him.
The first closer to his father, kissed him as a child could do, and
the second, before greeting, glanced at the door of the hall where
he had gone again with Leocadia two or three packages that brought
his brother.

- You see, Dad? - Pepe said .-- When I come alone, take
that half hour of opening, today, as I knew it came with me has to
jump down the ladder.

Millán, interrupting him, approached the table and began to talk to
Don Jose, avoid the jokes of your friend:

- You will know that the
items have been dissolved Girona ... The trouble is that the Baztán
have into two heads with a hundred men, and linked to another item,
about Estella, walk and in the vicinity of Pamplona.

- The Gazette
says nothing, at least not copy Correspondence.

- But the government
knows it, and the Ministry of War do not talk about something else.

Brother a home typesetter is a clerk in the Directorate of Infantry,
where he heard it.

- And for the Mastership, is there nothing?

-
Still ...

- As there are iron hand, we are lost.

- That does not,
the war may last as long as another, but Madrid do not come.

- The
dinner is coming next - "Dona Manuela, entering with a pan in his
hands.

In a cigarette paper could have made the menu that poor people: the
classic red seabream, cabbage salad, almond milk and desserts brought
by Pepe, there was no more.

The bottle Wheel was designed to Don Jose, who would give a couple
of drinks to Millán.

The other agreed say that white wine annoyed them a lot.

Shortly afterwards it was not the rasp bream; salad, or a leaf.

- Go to the health of those legs - said Millán, draining a drink and glancing at Leocadia.

- No re-run as they ran!

- All returns, Don José, everything you see you, to the Carlist.

Doña Manuela, bite still had not heard praise for his stew, he began
to thunder against the policy.

- Do not know about anything else.

Then let them come. Worse than these players now not be.

- Shut up, woman. You who know! It would be a horror. You - the old man said, addressing the
boys - have no idea what they did last time.

Lasted seven years, people could not leave the cities, women and children were shot to ... It
would be a shame ... now the army is well armed and better dressed. In the other war fought
with guns piston and spark up, and wore pants in winter thread.

Leocadia rose to fetch the milk of almonds, and then bringing back
the bowl.

- And all this in defense of religion - Miller said mockingly.

-
Religion has nothing to do with it, my children.

When you took up arms against Fernando VII, no one had abused the
religion during the war, the battalions Christines spent more time
on ranches Masses, the Liberals were almost more devout than the absolutists;
no one had messed with the Church, and of course that you have already
reached you, so San Carlos de la Rapita not had anything to do with
religion.

There are no more but four provinces want to impose the law in Spain.

If I lived Don Juan! That one was a man! Good is the almond milk! Anyway, we had dinner. Another
Christmas Eve! Who knows from here to the next! ...

- The spend together like this - said Millán - perhaps more united, - saying which looked Leocadia,
who lowered his eyes, between dodge and prudish.

- Above all, we will go through Tirso - Dona Manuela said .-- It is time for us to live together.
Come see him now, will soon be like giving birth to a son of thirty-four
years.

- Have you always lived apart?

- Almost all life.

We've already told you how was it to leave him with Don Tadeo. What we to do? We run more
provinces of the map. Don Tadeo it took a lot of love: that yes!

There would have been treated better if only his son. The only thing I felt bad, was it of cure
him, but I could not help. If only he were a priest or as Torrero
Muñoz Venegas and Martin Velasco ...

- Calle you, by God, Don José.

Cures "liberal? They are the worst!

Pepe, Leocadia and her mother were silent, feeling there was talk of that, because Don Jose such
cases, just getting in a mood of all the devils, but Miller, who from time back had a desire
to know the history of the case, was gradually forcing the old to the count.

- This gift would be delivered Tadeo people from church ...

- Cabalito: it was a terrific subject, but those who eat the saints, and spun the business with
great finesse. Tirso took a liking to, that's undeniable. I think the first thing that occurred
to him was to give race, without looking at what, to make man, then
his ideas, his relationships ... When I moved from Granada to Zamora,
made the trip with the boy just so I could see; already had twelve
years that I thanked him very much, because he had seen only two escapes
cortísimas we did that and I from Valladolid.

We wanted to pick up the boy then, Zamora, but on the one hand, and
understand the considerations of how much we had to don Thaddeus ...
he insisted that he was not take off, said Tirso was so good that
he had taken so much love ... In addition, our situation was not good,
that is, never has been, We could never save anything.

Now, if it were not for retirement, I do not know how we would live. In order to conclude, when
we wrote that Don Tadeo Tirso wanted to become a priest, had already put in the seminar. What do
we do? Although I had more energy than a lion ... then: Stand it! Anyone Arrisca to fight
with people from church! ...

Coming here was silent, fearful that it was the language.

- But he had a vocation?

Pepe, who had long since showed signs of impatience, could not hold back and broke it by saying
between mocking and angry:

- Vocation! Vocation! Who knows what that is?

May feel tired of living man and thinking, but a boy of sixteen years,
as was Tirso then, when he entered the seminary, Understand how to
devote to God?

It was a real shame, deception, robbery, kidnapping mayorem ad Dei
gloriam!

- Yes - said Millán - like when you put the Jesuit family
where girl with money and soon cátatela nun.

- Exactly the same, boy.

But it must be fair. In this case there was a noticeable difference in favor of Mr. Thaddeus,
who was a fan exageradísimo, and yet a very good man.

He should certainly take care of my brother for the father to pay for one of the causes which
we've already had, then their ideas, their friends from church, the influence exerted on him his cronies,
his horror at the boy to learn what is learned on the books against the rascals, not wanting to send,
with his godson, a center realistic learning where the province would
not send their children, all contributed sin.

There was in him, at first, evil intent: Don Tadeo thought to action meritorious, almost a charity.
Did not notice a child who stole his parents, his purpose was a desire
to serve God.

- Let a man made calamity.

Doña Manuela silent because even disliking the way your child was expressed, understood that
he was right: Leocadia, accustomed to similar scenes, hardly heard, for have all heard that
ad nauseam. Also, what absorbed his attention, for the moment walking was not ready for the
cogiese Millan among his foot under the table, excesillo apologized for the love of the bridegroom
and favored by the classic couch with her long underskirt of green baize playing fell to the ground.
Don Jose was making signs with his head Pepe assent as he spoke.

- You're right about everything, my son, Don Tadeo wanted to do well
and we screwed up.

Because, Indeed, who is from the Church, only her.

There are days when I do not think I have such a son.

Doña Manuela, without being pious, as the creatures take the world did not leave time for it, professed
some respect and unconscious inexplicable things and sacred persons, on However, since his eldest
son became a priest, began to have a shadow of worship as indeterminate and vague to the priestly
class, so, how often attended such talks, he spent a hard time. Their lack of enlightenment
and religious feeling low, they could not pay arms to fight, but
it still hurt Tirso clergyman, and having so many people around the
world consideration save them, his other son as they looked with disfavor.

-
How old are you now? - Said Millán.

- Check the account: of the three
children we have left, is the largest, was born in 38, has now thirty-four,
then going it (by Pepe), who is twenty, and that (for Leocadia) who
will be nineteen soon.

- If you have lived the other, would be seven,
and all I have grown up - with some added proud mother - least Tirso.

Now, for the first time, we will live together.

- I wish to live in peace! - Pepe said.

- Hail-Mary Immaculate! What things has this brother that God has given me!

- I mean, I do not care who you know. I have fear of coming Tirso, the desire and fear.

Don José silent sadly, that did not like, but since he knew the next
arrival Madrid with his eldest son, had fought for the same soul that
stirred misgivings Pepe, and listening to him, he thought to himself
heard.

- For our part - continued Pepe - no one is to disturb this
harmony.

Here, you've seen since we know, Millán, my parents live for this
and for me, us to them.

These furniture that are older than me, have never heard a dispute not the slightest disrespect.
Leocadia and I tried to mime that old people over a new toy boy. Do you know why? Because we have
not separated ever, and we slept one night without kissing, or had
a pain that is not the other, neither silent nor joy, nor has anyone
eaten a bun without saving the other, or a suit made without thinking
about how many clothes were each one, in a word, boy, our ideas, in
my conviction, my parents and the latter by goodness, I have linked
all the love, treasuring day by day and hour by hour, unmixed selfishness,
without sharing it with anyone ... (A Don José is moistened the eyes
of taste.) Y now come Tirso, educated away from us, become a man ...
and we welcome them with open arms.

For my part, I can not wait: a few more care will be playing Dad more of us at home.
 It seemed an age before I could open it and wriggle
out of the bag. Dutchy was sitting up in bed with a look of horror on his face, and his whole
body was in a tremor of fear. One of the men dashed a glass of water in his face, which brought
him back to his senses. It was only a nightmare, we found. Dutchy dreamed he had been injured
in a railway accident and had been taken for dead to the morgue. He tried to let them know
that he was alive, but couldn't utter a sound, until finally he burst out with the yells that
roused the camp. Then, as he awoke with the horror of the dream still on him, his eyes fell
on the two stretcher beds that looked like biers and the black coffin-like sleeping bag. It
was not much wonder that Dutchy was frightened. The camp did certainly have a most ghastly
appearance in the vague moonlight that filtered through the trees, and it must have been still
more gruesome to see the coffin and biers suddenly burst open and the corpses come running
toward him. To prevent any further nightmare we set Dutchy's sleeping bag under the "A" tent,
where he would be saved the horror of again waking up in a morgue.

PACK HARNESS.

In the morning our friends broke camp and started westward. Dutchy and I watched them packing
up their goods into a couple of very compact bundles, which they strapped to their backs with
a peculiar pack harness. I took careful note of the way the harness was put together, and when
we returned to the island we made two sets for use on our tramping expeditions. A canvas yoke
was first cut out to the form shown in Fig. 213. We used two thicknesses of the heaviest brown
canvas we could find, binding the two pieces together with tape. The yoke was padded with cotton
at the shoulders and a strap was fastened to each shoulder piece. These were arranged to be
buckled to a pair of straps fastened to the back of the yoke and passing under the arms. Riveted
to these straps were a pair of straps used for fastening on the pack. The yoke straps were
attached with the rough side against the yoke, while the pack straps were riveted on with the
rough side uppermost, as indicated in the drawing.

RIVETING.

The method of riveting together the leather straps may need a word of explanation. A copper
rivet was passed through a hole in the two straps; then the washer was slipped over the projecting
end of the rivet. This washer had to be jammed down tight against the leather, and to do this
we drilled a hole of the diameter of the rivet in a block of wood, and putting this block over
the washer, with the end of the rivet projecting into the hole, we hammered the block until
the washer was forced down tight against the leather. Then taking a light tack hammer we battered
down the end of the rivet onto the washer. Care was taken to do this hammering very lightly,
otherwise the end would have been bent over instead of being flattened.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE LAND YACHT.

Only one thing of importance occurred between our Christmas holidays and Eastertide: this was
Bill's invention of the tricycle sailboat or land yacht. We had returned to school with sailing
on the brain. Our skate sail served us well enough while there was any ice, but as spring came
on we wished we had our canoe with us, or even the old scow to sail on the lakes near the school.
Once we seriously considered building a sailboat, but the project was given up, as we had few
facilities for such work. But Bill wasn't easily baffled, and I wasn't surprised to have him
come tearing into the room one day, yelling, "I've got it! I've got it!" In his hands were
two bicycle wheels, which I recognized as belonging to a couple of bicycles we had discarded
the year before.

"What are you going to do with them?" I inquired.

"I'm going to make a tricycle sailboat."

"What?"

"A tricycle sailboat, a land boat, or anything you've a mind to call it. I mean a boat just
like our ice boat only on bicycle wheels instead of skates. We can sail all over south Jersey
on the thing. Come on down and help me build it."

THE FRAME OF THE YACHT.

I followed him to the shed at the back of the school and found that he had already procured
a couple of scantlings for the frame of the boat. The sticks were 2 inches thick and 4 inches
wide. The backbone was cut to a length of 10 feet, and a 5-foot link was sawed off for the
crosspiece. The two pieces were securely nailed together about 3 feet from the forward end
of the backbone. The crosspiece was set on edge, but a notch was cut in it about 1 inch deep
to receive the backbone. We might have braced the frame with wooden braces, as in the ice boat,
but we thought that this time we would vary the design by using wire bracing instead, thus
making the frame much lighter. I asked Bill how he proposed to tighten the wire. Turnbuckles
were the thing, but I knew that they were rather expensive.

"Just you leave that to me," said Bill. "I've a scheme that I think will work out all right."

A SIMPLE TURNBUCKLE.

At the hardware store of the town we bought a pound of No. 16 iron wire, eight large screw
eyes and six eye bolts, with nuts and washers. Both the screw eyes and eye bolts had welded
eyes and the shanks of the eye bolts were 6 inches long. A pair of screw eyes were now threaded
into the backbone at each side about 18 inches from the end, and at each end of the crosspieces
an eye bolt was fastened. I began to see Bill's plan. He was going to draw the wire taut by
tightening up the nuts on the eye bolts. To get the best effect the hole for the eye bolt had
to be drilled in on a slant, so that the bolt would pull directly in the line of the wire.
To get just the right angle we ran a cord from the screw eye on one side to the point where
the bolt was to be inserted, and traced its direction on the crosspiece. The hole for the eye
bolt was now drilled parallel with the mark we had traced. The same was done at the other end
of the crosspiece. A pair of screw eyes were now screwed into the backbone at the fore end
and a pair of eye bolts were set at a corresponding angle in the ends of the crosspiece. The
crosspiece was notched at each side so that the nuts and washers on the eye bolts would have
a square seating. Then we stretched on the wire guy lines, drawing them as tight as possible,
with the eye bolts held in place by a turn or two of the nuts, after which we screwed up the
nuts as far as we could, thus drawing up the wire until it was very taut. This done the second
nut was threaded onto each bolt against the first so as to lock it in place and prevent it
from jarring loose.

STEPPING THE MAST.

Our next task was to step the mast. We found in the shed an old flagstaff 15 feet long and
3 inches in diameter. The lower end of this, for about a foot, we whittled down to a diameter
of 2 inches, and drove it into a hole in the backbone 12 inches from the forward end. The mast
was stayed by a wire stretched from the head to an eye bolt at the fore end of the backbone.
The end of the mast which projected below the backbone was stayed with wire running forward
to an eye bolt and aft to a screw eye on the backbone, and also with a pair of wires running
to screw eyes threaded into the crosspiece near the ends. We couldn't very well use eye bolts
on these wires except at the fore end, but we stretched the wires as tight as possible before
the screw eyes were screwed all the way in, and then, as we turned the screw eyes, the wire
was wound up on them and drawn fairly taut. Fig. 219 shows a side view of the frame, and wires
marked 1 and 2 are the same as illustrated in Fig. 218, which is a top or plan view of the frame. The
prison guard was walking in the garlic. There was only presented, and the soldiers doors would
open, releasing all imprisoned comrades.

The giant was thought for a moment, rubbing his forehead as if to
help with these Progress rubs his muddled thinking.

- Okay - after
a long pause said .-- This is a matter to be men, or not to be: getting
into the city and what comes out, that or go to sleep.

Shone in his eyes cold resolution, the fatalism of those who resign themselves to be drivers men.
Poured on him the responsibility of a rebellion that had not prepared. Knew much of seditious
movement, and those people who seemed absorbed in the twilight, without being able to explain why he
was there.

- Comrades! - Shouted imperiously .-- A Jerez those with kidney!

Let's get the our poor brothers prison ... and what is third. Salvatierra is there.

The first to approach the makeshift leader, was Trebujena Paco, the
bracero rebel dismissed from all the villages, as he walked the field
with his donkey selling liquor and revolutionary roles.

- I'm going
with you, Juanon, as the mate Fernando ahead.

- He who is man, and
be shy, follow me! - Continued Juanon large screams, no certainly
lead to know where peers.

But despite appeals to manhood and shame, most of those gathered is
backwards instinctively.

A murmur of distrust, of immense disappointment, elevábase of the crowd. Most, passed suddenly
noisy enthusiasm to suspicion and fear. Her fantasy of southern, always ready for the unexpected
and wonderful, had made them believe in the emergence of Salvatierra and other famous revolutionaries,
all mounted on spirited steeds, as arrogant and invincible warlords, followed by a large army
which miraculously emerged land. Subject to accompany these powerful aids in its entry into Jerez,
reserving the easy task of killing the vanquished, and awarded her wealth! And instead of this,
I spoke to go alone in that city, that drew on the horizon, over the last glow of the setting sun and
seemed to wink satanically his eyes red lighting, as drawing them into an ambush. They were not fools.
Life was hard on her too much work and perpetual hunger, but worse was to die. A house! Home!
...

And the groups began to march in the direction opposite to the city
to get lost in the shadows, not wanting to hear the insults and the
most exalted Juanon.

These, fearing defections facilitate immobility gave the marching orders.

- A Jerez! A Jerez! ...

Out on the road.

Were a thousand city workers, and men-beasts that The meeting had been smelling blood and they
could not withdraw, as if instinct urges them superior to his will.

Juanon Next, among the most courageous, walked the Maestrico, the boy who passed night in the Gañanía,
teaching reading and writing.

- I think we're going wrong - he said to his companion .-- vigorous
march blindly.

I have seen men running at Jerez, to warn our arrival. We expect, but not for anything good.

-
You will Cayas, Maestrico - said imperiously leader, who, proud of
his office, welcomed as the least objection .-- irreverence Cayas
you, that is.

And if you fear, as you najas others. Here we are not cowards.

- I coward - the boy simply said .-- Forward, Juanon.

Pa what life is worth! ...

They marched in silence, with bowed head, as if they would attack the city. Trotting as if
he wished to leave as soon as possible to the uncertainty that accompanied them in their career.

The
Spaniard explained his plan. A jail then: to get the fellow prisoners.
There they join the troop.

And Juanon, as if he could order anything that was not for his voice, he repeated loudly:

- A prison, boys!

To save our brothers!

They took a long detour to get into the city by a street, as if they were ashamed treading
the well-lit wide roads. Many of these men had been in Jerez very few times, unaware of the streets
and followed their conductors with docility a herd, thinking concerns
the way out of there if they were forced to flee.

The avalanche was moving black deaf and dumb crowd of steps that touched the floor. Cerrábanse
the doors of the houses, apagábanse the lights in the windows. From a balcony insulted a woman.

-
Scoundrels! Ordinary riffraff!

Hopefully I'll be damned, that's what you deserve! ...

And in the stones of the pavement, echoed the shock of breaking a
clay pot without that the fragments reached anyone.

Marcasite was that from the balcony of livestock pigs, indignant against that mob, unpleasant
for its ordinariness, who dared threaten decent people.

Only a few raised their heads: The others followed later, insensitive
to the ridiculous aggression, anxious to reach as soon as possible
to meet friends.

Those who were in the city recognized the Marquis, and answered his insults away with words so
classic as immodest. But what that tip! Not to hurry, she had been given a spanking by under
skirts ...

The column was somewhat reflux to the top of the hill leading to the square of the Prison: The worst
site shadow of the city.

Many of the rebels remembered the comrades La Mano Negra: there had given them stick.

The square was deserted, the ancient convent converted in prison had closed all openings, with no
light bars. Until the guard was hiding behind the big gate.

He stopped the head of the column to enter the plaza, resisting the push from those who came behind.
No! Who would help? Where were the soldiers who were to join them? ...

They soon know. Broke down a fence shooting a flame, a red line dissolving
in smoke.

A huge, dry whiplash shaken the plaza. Then another and another until nine, which people, still
in shock, seemed infinite in number. It was the guard, made fire before they were put in front
of the guns.

Surprise and terror gave some a naive heroism. Advanced screaming, arms open.

- Do not throw, brothers, that we have sold! ... Brothers, do not come from poor! ...

But the brothers were hard to ear, and kept shooting. Suddenly the crowd started in the fear
of leakage. They ran all downhill, cowardly and brave, pushing each other, violated, as if they
whipped their backs those shots that were shaking the empty square.

Juanon and more energetic, turning a corner contained the flood of
men.

Groups rallied, but smaller, less compact. They were no more than a hundred men. The gullible
leader swore in a low voice.

- To see: the coming of Madrid: we explain this.

But it was useless to look for.

The Madrid had disappeared in the dispersion, was hidden in the streets
to the sound of gunfire, as everyone who knew the city.

There were only Juanon beside those who were marching from the mountains
and grope through the streets, amazed to go from side to side, seeing
no one, as if the city were deserted.

- Ni Salvatierra is in Jerez,
or know anything about this - said .-- I Maestrico to Juanon paece
that have us harm.

- So I think - said the athlete .-- What we JACER?

Since we're here, let's go to center of Jerez, to Long Street.

Undertook a march in disarray inside the city. What were relieved, instilling a certain value,
was not encountering obstacles or enemies. Where was the guard civil? Why hide the troops? The
fact remain locked in their barracks, leaving the city in their hand,
they infused the absurd hope that it was still possible the emergence
of Salvatierra, in front of the rebel troops.

They arrived without any obstacle to Larga street. No precaution on arrival. The road was clean
transients, but in casinos showed themselves illuminated balconies,
the lower floors had no other close to the gates of crystals.

The rebels went to the societies of the rich hate glancing, but not just stop. Juanon expected
an outburst of anger of the miserable herd: to be prepared to interfere
with his authority as chief to mitigate the disaster.

- These are
the rich! - Said in the groups.

- Those of us who grow fat gazpacho
dog.

- Those who steal from us.

Mial how to drink our blood ...

And after a brief detention, the parade continued hastily, as if they were to some party and feared
arriving late.

Wielding the terrible shears, sickles, knives ... To go aside the
rich and would how rolling their heads on the pavement!

But there was to be on the street, they all felt some reluctance
to push the gates, as if the crystals were an insurmountable wall.

The long years of subservience and cowardice weighed on the rude people to be against their
oppressors.

In addition, they intimidated the light of the high street, wide sidewalks with rows of lanterns,
the red glow of the balconies. All mentally formulated the same excuse to excuse its weakness.
If caught in the open to those people! ...

Passing the Caballista Circle, crystals appeared after several heads
of youngsters.

They were gentlemen who were still ill-concealed concern the parade of strikers. But to see
them pass by, show some irony in his eyes, regaining confidence in the superiority of their caste.

-
Viva Social Revolution! - Maestrico shouted, as if you ache to go
silent the nest of the rich.

The curious disappeared, but the hidden laughed, causing great rejoicing acclamation. While content
with shouting! ...

They came on their way superseded the Plaza Nueva, and seeing that
the head stopped, agrupáronse around him, his eyes questioning.

-
So now what we do - asked innocently .-- Where do we go?

Juanon put a fierce gesture.

- You can Diros wherever you want, what we do pa! ... I to take the air.

And wrapped in the blanket, leaned against a lamp column, remaining motionless revealed an attitude
that disappointment.

People scattered, divided into small groups. Improvisábanse heads,
leading each comrades in a different direction.

The city was his, now began a good thing! Appeared atomic instinct of the race, unable to undertake
anything as a whole, private collective value, and only feels strong and enterprising when each
individual can work for inspiration own.

Long Street has been obscured: the casinos were closed. After the ordeal suffered by the rich,
watching the parade threatening, they feared a reculón of the beast sorry for his magnanimity,
and all doors closed.

A large group went to the theater. There were the rich, the bourgeois. Had to kill them all: a
real drama. But when he arrived at the door laborers lit they stopped with a fear that had
something religious. They had never gone there.

The air, hot, loaded of gas fumes and the sound of countless conversations that escaped through the
cracks gate, intimidábanles as the breath of a monster hiding behind the red curtains the lobby.

That
came out! Come out and know what was good! ... But, get in there? ...

Looked out the door several spectators, attracted by the news of the invasion that filled the
streets.

One of them, with cape and hat, sir, these men dared to advance to wrapped in blankets, who formed
a group outside the theater.

Fell on him, surrounding him with pruning shears and sickles in the air, while other spectators
fled, taking refuge in the theater.

They had, at last, what they wanted!

It was the bourgeoisie, the sated bourgeois, who had to bleed, to repay the people all the substance
had sucked ...

But the bourgeois, a robust young man, looking calm
and frank, I held with a gesture.

- Eh, mates!

That I am a worker like you!

- Hands: to see hands - roared some braceros, without threatening
their arms folded.

And through the fold of the cloak, appeared strong hands, square, fingernails eaten by the job.
One after another, these men were stroking the palms, appreciating their corns. Callus was:
it was yours. And threatening weapons again to hide under the covers.

- Yes, I am yours - continued the young .-- I am a carpenter, but
I like to dress as the gentlemen, and instead of spending the night
at the tavern, the step in the theater.

Each have their hobbies ...

This disappointment caused such dismay at the strikers, many of them retired. Christ! Where
they hid the rich? ...

Marched through the streets broad and narrow streets away, in small groups, looking find someone
to teach them hands.

It was the best way to recognize enemies of the poor. But not with tripe or without them, find anyone
at her pace.

The city seemed deserted.

People saw that armed force was hidden in the barracks, running to stay at home, exaggerating
the importance of the invasion, believing they were million men who filled the streets around
the city.

A group of five braceros stumbled into an alley with a gentleman.

Were the most ferocious of the band, men who felt a homicidal impatience, seeing that the hours
passed without bloodshed.

- Hands, teach hands - roared round her,
raising her head on the blades square and shiny.

- Hands! - Answered
the young man in a bad mood, overt .-- Why should I teach?

I do not want.

But one of them grabbed her arms with his claws, and a violent jerk, teach him hands.

- They have no calluses! - Dreary cried with joy.

And he made a step back, to fall upon him with greater momentum.

But I stopped serenity the young.

- I have no calluses, so what? But I am a worker like you. Nor has Salvatierra And for you to
be more revolutionary than he is! ...

Salvatierra's name at the top seemed to stop the heavy blade.

- Let the boy - said behind them the voice of Juanon .-- I know him and vouch for him. It is the
friend of teammate Fernando, is the idea.

Fermin barbarians left Montenegro with some regret, watching spoiled
his pleasure.

The presence of Juanon they commanded respect. In addition, the bottom of the lane advanced another
young. That would be the idea, a scion of bourgeois, who would retire to his home.

While thanking Montenegro Juanon their timely presence, which saved
him from death, verificábase just beyond the meeting of the transient
laborers.

- Hands, bourgeois teach hands.

The bourgeois was a pale, stunted teenager, a boy of sixteen, with the suit shabby, but with
long neck and flashy tie, the luxury of the poor. Trembling with fear teach her poor thin hands
and anemic clerk hands locked daylight hours in the cage of an office.

Crying, to excuse himself with broken words, looking at the pruning shears with eyes of terror,
as if mesmerized by the cold steel.

It came from the desktop ... had veiled ... were at work in the balance ...

- Won two pesetas, gentlemen ... two pesetas.

Do not hit me ... I will go home, my mother expected me ... Oooh! ...

It was a scream of pain, fear, despair, which moved across the street. A howl creepy, while something
like a pot broke broken and the girl fell back on the ground.

Juanon and Fermin, shuddering with horror, ran towards the group, seeing in the middle of it the
boy, his head in a black puddle that grew and grew, and stretching
legs and contracting with the death rattle. A trimmer had opened the
skull, breaking bones.

Brutes seemed satisfied with their work.

-
Mial - said one of them .-- The Apprentice bourgeois! It dies like
a chicken ... They'll come then teachers.

Juanon burst into curses.
"This was all they knew to do? Cowards! It had been to the casinos,
where they were the rich, the real enemies, not only occur to to cry,
fearing that breaking windows was his only defense. Only served to
kill a child, a worker like them, a poor lad in desk, he earned two
pesetas and perhaps kept his mother.

Fermin came to fear that the
athlete falling knife in hand over their competitors.

- Aonda go
with these brutes! - Roared Juanon premit .-- God or the devil to
catch us all and we ajorquen ... And to me the first, beast, for believing
that something worshiped pa.

The big man walked away unhappy, wanting
to avoid a clash with fierce comrades. These escaped too, as if the
words of the giants they had returned the right.

Montenegro, finding
himself alone in front of the corpse, he was afraid. Began to crack
some windows after the precipitate flight of the murderers and fled,
fearing the neighbors catch him next to the dead.

He did not stop
in his flight up to the big streets. There believed to be best kept
loose wild beasts, who were demanding that teach hands.

After a while
it seemed that the city awoke. Sounded in the distance a roar that
shook the ground, and soon moved to a squadron of lancers trotted
down the street long. Then the end of it, the rows of bayonets gleamed
and moved the infantry with rhythmic step. The facades of the great
houses suddenly seemed happy opening their doors and balconies.

The
armed forces spread throughout the city. The lamplight shone helmets
riders, the bayonets of the infants, patent-leather tricorn civil
guard. In the gloom stood out the red spots of the troop pants and
belts yellow guards.

Those who had held in confinement at these forces,
believed the time to scatter. For a few hours, the city had surrendered
without resistance, fatigue in a monotonous waiting for the parsimony
of the rebels. But I had gotten blood. It took one body, the body
that would justify the cruel reprisals, to awaken the authority your
dream volunteer.

Fermín thought, with great sorrow, the unhappy writer,
lying there on the street, victim exploited even in death, which provided
the pretext sought by the powerful.

Jerez began hunting around men.
Platoons of civil guards and infantry line input still kept the streets,
while the cavalry and heavy patrols ojeaban ordinary city, arresting
the suspects.

Fermin went back and forth without impediment. Its
exterior was Master, and strength hunted armed only with blankets,
hats field, the coats are rough all who looked like workers. Montenegro
saw them pass in a row on his way to jail between the bayonets and
the rumps of horses, some killed, as if surprised by the hostile appearance
of armed force "which was to join them 'others, stunned, not understanding
chain gangs how aroused such joy in Long Street, where they paraded
for her hours before as victors, not allowing the child abuse. At the bottom these poles were spaced 8 feet apart by a
cross bar, and about 9-1/2 feet from the bottom a pair of boards were nailed to opposite sides
of the pole to serve as supports for the axle of the water wheel. Another pair of 17-foot poles
was now similarly fastened together and then the two pairs were spaced about 12 feet apart
and connected at the top and bottom with boards.

At the top two smooth boards were used and these were nailed to the inner sides of the projecting
ends, which were tapered off. In this manner a V-shaped trough was formed. The boards were
firmly nailed together at their meeting edges so as to prevent them from warping apart. A diagonal
brace at each corner made the wedge-shaped tower very substantial. A number of cleats nailed
to one of the poles provided a ladder by which we could mount to the top of the tower. The
shorter tower was a three-legged affair, made of three 12-foot poles. At first two of these
were flattened and nailed together at their upper ends, and they were braced at the top and
bottom. The third leg was then nailed in place and braced by cross bars connecting it with
the other two poles.

THE WHEEL.

We were now ready to make the wheel. From Lumberville four 1/2-inch boards, each 3 inches wide
and 15 feet long, were procured; also a bar of iron 3/4 of an inch in diameter and 2 feet long.
At the center of one of the boards a block of wood 4 inches long and 4 inches in diameter was
nailed on for a hub. A 3/4-inch hole was now drilled through this hub and the board. Holes
were also drilled into the other boards at their centers. Then they were all strung onto the
bar and spaced like spokes at equal angles apart. Bill had figured it out some way that the
ends of the boards should be just about 5 feet 10-1/2 inches apart. When the boards were all
arranged we nailed them together at the center, and connected the ends with narrow tie boards,
as indicated in Fig. 256.

THE BUCKETS.

Eight large tomato cans were now procured and fastened to the spokes at the ends on the inner
side, that is, the side the hub was nailed to. We couldn't very well nail on the cans, so we
punched two holes in the side of each can and then secured them to the spokes by passing bolts
through these holes and the boards.

THE PADDLES.

Then we cut sixteen paddles of the form shown in Fig. 257. Eight of these were 12 inches long,
and the rest measured 18 inches. A slot 3 inches deep was cut in each paddle of just the right
width to slip over the tie boards. The shorter paddles were fastened on just back of the spokes,
and the rest were secured half-way between each spoke. The paddles were braced by stretching
a wire from one to another all the way around the wheel.

THE RECEIVING TROUGH.

Our next task was to nail the receiving trough in place on the higher tower. We set up the
towers on land and mounted the wheel between them with the axle resting in the crotch of the
short tower and in a deep notch cut in the cross boards of the larger one. The cans on the
wheel faced the larger tower, but the hub at the center and a block nailed to the larger tower
spaced the wheel far enough out so that the cans did not strike the tower as they revolved.
We carefully measured the distance between the spokes and the larger tower, and then built
a square trough of a size to just fit into this space. This trough was nailed across the end
of the V-shaped trough on top of the tower, but a notch was cut in the side so that the water
would pour from the square or receiving trough into this V-shaped one. The square trough was
about 8 feet long and its sides were 12 inches high; but at the ends we had to cut them down
to a height of but 6 inches, so as to permit the cans to pass without hitting them.

SETTING UP THE TOWERS.

Our filter was located nearly 20 feet from the end of the river, and in order to get a good
current of water to revolve our wheel we had to place it about 15 feet from shore. This necessitated
building a trough line 35 feet long. Ten feet of this line were already provided in the top
of the tall tower. This tower was now set up in place with the legs firmly wedged into holes
excavated in the bottom of the river. The legs on the shore side were sunk a little deeper,
so as to tilt the trough slightly shoreward. The outer end of the trough was about 12 feet
above the level of the water. We needed but one more tower to support the remainder of the
trough line. This tower was built like the first one, but was much shorter, as it was erected
on land and the level of the trough at the top had to be 5 or 6 inches lower so as to make
the water flow. We connected the towers by another V-shaped trough section. This we nailed
to the under side of the first trough and to the inside of the second trough. The latter was
then in the same way connected by a trough section with the upper filter barrel. We now rigged
up our shorter tower about a foot from the taller one, wedging in the legs so that the top
came level with the slotted boards of the other tower.

MOUNTING THE WATER WHEEL.

Then came the task of mounting our wheel in place. We were working in a pretty strong current
and found it no easy matter. In the first place, the wheel was floated down to the towers,
but there it got jammed and we couldn't lift it up. One of the paddles was broken and a bucket
wrenched off before we could disentangle the wheel from the towers, and then the wheel was
carried quite a distance down-stream before we could drag it in to shore.

Our next attempt was more successful. This time we anchored the wheel so that it just cleared
the towers, then fastening a couple of long guy ropes to it, we raised the wheel on edge, while
a boy stood on each side holding the ropes to keep the wheel steady. The anchor rope was now
slowly paid out and the wheel was rolled in between the towers. This done, the wheel was lifted
up and the axle rod was pushed in, with the ends of the rod resting in slots of the boards
on the tall tower and in the crotch on the shorter one. To prevent the axle rod from working
endwise out of its bearings, we nailed pieces of wood across the crotch and the slots against
the ends of the rod. Then we cast off the anchor rope and our wheel started work, the cans
dipping up the water as they were carried around by the wheel and pouring it out of the top
into the receiving trough, from which the water flowed down into the filter barrel.

COOLING THE FILTER BARREL.

The trough line was very leaky and a great deal of water splashed out of the buckets. But for
all that, within a few moments our barrel was full and overflowing. We hadn't figured on its
filling so rapidly, but we soon found a way of utilizing the surplus water. It was led to a
half-barrel in which we washed our dishes, and from there it flowed through a ditch back to
the river. The water for the wash barrel was taken from the top of the upper filter barrel.
But we let the lower filter barrel flow over so that it would be kept wet on the outside. Our
filter was fortunately placed at a point where a good breeze struck it, and we shoveled away
the earth that had been piled around it so that the wind playing on the wet barrel evaporated
the moisture, making the water inside very cool.

THE CANVAS BUCKET.

This same trick was used for cooling our drinking water whenever we went off on an expedition
away from camp. We had a heavy canvas bucket, the kind used on ships. We would fill this bucket
with water and then hang it up in the wind. The water seeping out of the pores of the bucket
would be evaporated by the wind, and this would, in a few moments, make the water inside delightfully
cool. Such buckets may be bought for $1.50 to $2.00 apiece, but ours was a home-made affair,
and made somewhat differently from the store kind. The canvas used was the heaviest we could
find. A piece 9 inches in diameter was cut out for the bottom. A ring 7 inches in diameter,
made of heavy brass wire, was laid on the canvas, and the cloth was turned over it and sewed
down the inside of the ring. For the sides of the bucket we cut a piece 14 inches wide and
23 inches long. The upper edge was strengthened by a piece of light rope held in place by hemming
the cloth over it. The lower edge was now sewed to the bottom, just inside the wire ring and
then the ends of the piece were joined, completing the sides of the bucket. The bail of the
bucket was formed of a piece of rope fastened to the roped upper edge of the bucket.

But to return to the current wheel; the day after it was completed, when I went over to Lumberville
for the mail, I was met by old Jim Halliday, who wanted to know what sort of a rig we had out
on the river. I told him, and after a dint of much persuasion, induced him to take a ride back
in the scow with me. He had never visited our camp and hadn't realized how handy we were with
the tools, because, with the exception of the current wheel, all our work had been done on
the opposite side of the island. We made him a guest of honor, showing him over the whole place.
The bridges struck him as remarkably clever, but what pleased him most was our current wheel. Where is all of a sudden, where the rigidity of winter makes it more desirable, is showing with
more pomp and din, which gives higher rate of self, which shines more benign the throne of
his glory, where it is most admire and which deserves to be admired. Ice covers the rivers
is broken, breaks, and low in fat icebergs into the sea with broken fury. Houses, palaces, huts,
trees and sky, to look back with longing and with love the liquid sheet of water, watched
before and marred by the cold. Candida diadem girds the tops of the mountains will melt, increasing
the crystal streams. Trees, naked green foliage, spring blossoms unexpectedly and shoot fresh
lush, dressing of tender and shiny leaves. The birds come in flocks, guided by unerring instinct.
Turban cranes silence of the night with their shrill cries, when they come forward in symmetrical
and well-ordered phalanx. Thousand swallows and songbirds, returning from his long emigration
wave to soft peep or squeak happy, or trills varied, ancient known houses. The stork wading immigration
from East or Africa, and find the nest the old tower or in the high vantage point of the house.
Maybe there's blonde country girl German put his neck, before it was a romantic film with
a sign. When again, the cops see the girl that answers a mufti of Cairo or some holy man Mecca
with another sign written in Arabic. Meanwhile, the frost has cleared tight covering the fields
and grass and flowers, as if they had been oppressed under that weight appear by magic. Anemone
nemorosa is one of the earliest to open there calyx to announce the Spring. But a thousand flowers,
more fragrant and no less beautiful, appear after calling and exiting the breeze to breathe the
aromas they exhale.

The breeze comes, like the bold prince fairy tale, and goes through
the elusive forest, and enters the palace silently, and goes to bed
and slept in the haunted princess, and gives a kiss of love.

Then he undoes the evil spell, silence and the rest are bartered for sudden death in movement,
music, excitement and life. As if they were to be held divine weddings, upholster and beautifies
everything. They open the treasures unfold finery, put tables and dressers of the royal banquet,
and looks over the wide thalamus cover of purple, emerald and gold. The guests have already said
that pilgrims come from far across the sky. Others who do not pilgrimage, awakening from long
sleep, are lined their richest robes, and go well. All as good subjects, they try to imitate
princes. And as the princes are in love and will marry, all fall in love and marry. It seems
that hardly any living being that does not get drunk with the juice of magical herbs or the perfume
of strange flowers, which move to love, delight and joy, inducing to life which would increase
and spread and open new ways of being. Certain fictions poetic reality seems to have then,
and believe in the dudain, Rachel was looking tired to be sterile in the lotus, which was to
forget all the comrades of Ulysses, and Nepentes, that cheered the soul, and she gave Telemachus Elena.
 This did not mean that fifty trees had to be chopped down, because we could usually
cut two logs from a single tree. As the logs would have to overlap about a foot at each corner,
we had to cut the longer ones to a length of 14 feet and the others to a length of 12 feet.
Aside from these we had to have several 16-foot logs for the roof. Only the straightest logs
were chosen, and while Bill and Reddy wielded the axes the rest of us hacked off the small
branches with hatchets and hauled the sticks down the river. Here we tied them together to
make a raft.

THE LOG RAFT.

This was done by running a pair of ropes alternately over and under the logs at each end (see
Fig. 264). About fifteen were thus fastened together, and then as an extra precaution a log
was laid across each end of the raft and tied fast. As soon as we had cut enough timber for
our first raft, we all ceased work, to take a ride down the river on the logs. Two of us, armed
with poles, were to do the steering. There was one spot in the river of which we were rather
apprehensive. That was a bit of shallow, swift water three miles from camp. A line of rocks
jutted up from the river, forming a natural dam which was broken only at the eastern end. The
water swirled madly through this opening, and veering off a huge rock which lay directly in
front of the gap turned sharply westward. As we neared this dam the river became deeper and
deeper, until finally we could no longer reach bottom with the poles, and could not properly
steer the boat. For some time we drifted helplessly round and round in the still water above
the dam. Then suddenly the current caught us and we swept like a shot for the opening. The
gap was quite wide, and had we only thought to provide ourselves with oars we could have steered
the raft clear of the rocks below, but we were entirely at the mercy of the current, and with
a terrific crash we were hurled head on against the boulder.

Just what happened then I can not say. When I undertook to record the incident in the chronicles
of the S. S. I. E. E. of W. C. I., I found there were five entirely different versions of the
affair besides my own. The bird, quickly
jumping on the latter, snatched from the hands cord, and went out again flying out of that room.

Everything
was so instantaneous that Princess barely had time to see the bird,
but its audacity and her beauty caused the strangest impression.

A few days later, the Princess, to divert his melancholy, he wove a dance with their daughters, in
the presence of the Princes. They were all in the gardens and watched spellbound. Suddenly Princess
felt that he unleashed a league, and suspending the dance, went on the sly to a nearby grove to
tie it again. SA had already discovered the shapely leg was stretched and white silk stockings,
and was preparing to hold the league in his hand when he heard a noise of wings, and saw the
bird come to her green, snatched the league in the ebony beak and disappeared to the point.
The Princess gave a cry and fell faint.

Came the suitors and her father. She regained consciousness, and the first thing he said was
:--«¡ That green bird looking at me ... I bring you alive ... not kill you ... I want to own
green bird alive! "

But in vain he sought the Princes. In vain, though instructed by the Princess of not thought to
kill the green bird, were released against the falcon, sacrum, bigwigs and even eagles, tamed and
trained in falconry.

The green bird did not appear dead or alive.

The unfulfilled desire of possessing the Princess and tormented increased his bad mood. That could
not sleep at night. The best thing you thought of the Prince was not worth at all.

Just came on the day, rose from the bed, and lifting light clothes, without corset and crinoline,
most beautiful and interesting in that negligee, pale and haggard, he went with her maid,
favorite leafy forest as it was back to the palace, where stood the tomb of his mother. There
he began to mourn and lament his fate .-- What I serve said, all
my riches, if contempt all the princes of the world, if not love;
what my kingdom, if not I have you, mother, and do all my beauties
and gems, if not I have a beautiful green bird?

With this, as to console something, unlink the cord of her dress and pulled out the chest a
rich locket, where he kept a lock of his mother, who got to kiss. But hardly started to kiss,
when he went faster than ever green bird, with its ebony beak touched the Princess lips, and snatched
the locket, which had lain for so many years against his heart, and
so hidden and instead had been desired.

The robber then disappeared, flew out and got lost in the clouds.

This time the Princess did not faint, but rather stood very red and said to the maid: - Look
at me look me in the lips, the insolent bird has injured me, because I burn.

The maiden looked at them and did not notice any bite, but surely the bird had some poison in
them, because the traitor did not reappear on, and Princess was worse
for degrees, falling sick very dangerous.

A singular fever ate, and talked casino but to say: - Do not kill him ... I bring you alive ...
I I own you.

The physicians agree that the only medicine to cure the princess, was to bring green bird alive.
But where to find him? It was useless to seek the most skilled hunters. Useless were offered
huge sums who would bring.

The Fortunate King convened a major conference of scholars to find out, on pain of incurring
in their righteous indignation, who and where he lived the green bird, whose memory haunted her daughter.

Forty
days and forty nights meeting were as wise, without ceasing to meditate and discourse but to
get some sleep and eat.

Spoke very learned and eloquent speeches, but nothing found out .-- Sir, said after all the King,
bowing humbly to feet and injuring the powder with the respectable fronts, we're two fools,
do we hang; our science is a lie not know who is the green bird, and only we dare to perhaps
be suspected if the phoenix of Arabia.
- Arise, said the king with remarkable generosity, I forgive you
and thank you for the indication about the phoenix. Will promptly
seven of you with rich presents for the queen of Sheba, and all the
resources that I can have live birds to hunt. The Phoenix must have
a nest in the country knows, and then you bring it to me, if you do
not want my royal anger you punish but to prevent it tratéis escondiéndoos
in the bowels of the earth. So we merely cut a piece out of the top log to make room for a saw when we were ready
to cut the complete opening. As our fireplace was to be 5 feet in width, a 5-foot piece was
cut out of the center of the log. Then the ends were supported by cleats nailed on each side,
as shown in Fig. 269. This done the building was continued as before, but as the walls grew
we found it more and more difficult to raise the logs to position. We could not lift them directly
to the top of the wall, but had to roll them up on "skids"; that is, on a pair of 14-foot logs
which were laid against the top of the wall. When the walls had reached a height of about 5
feet above the foundation logs, a length 4 feet 9 inches long was cut out of the top log to
allow space for sawing out the front door and window, and also a 30-inch piece was cut out
for the side window. Cleats temporarily held the sawed ends of the logs, while the walls were
carried on up to a height of a little over 6 feet from the foundation logs.

THE ROOF OF THE LOG CABIN.

Then we started laying the roof. If my father would
have appreciated for its simplicity and honesty, we surely would have died of hunger, and you, instead
of being a gentleman, you'd be digging in vineyards.

- As his father, Don Pablo - Fermin said - was a friend of Don Fernando
Salvatierra and more than once came to him asking for support at the
time of pronouncements and cantons.

- My father! - Answered with
some hesitation .-- Dupont was as it was also the son of an era riots
and a little tepid in what else should matter to the man of religion
... In addition, Fermin, times have changed, those Republicans were
so many people lost, but in excellent heart.

I have known some who could not pass without his mass and they were some holy men who hated the
Kings, but respected the priests of God. Do you think, Fermin, that scares me the Republic?
I'm more Republican than you, I am a modern man.

And broken gestures, pounding his chest, he spoke of his convictions. He had no sympathy for the
current government, at last, all were thieves, and point religious faith are hypocrites who
pretended to hold Catholicism because he was considered a strength.

The monarchy was a social banner, and said his friend Father Urizábal: subject; but he was set
little flags and colors, what mattered was that God was above all Christ to reign monarchy
or republic, and the children were submissive rulers of Pope. He does not fear instilled the
Republic. Watched with great affection some of the American South ideals and happy villages where
the Immaculate Conception was captain general militaries and the Heart of Jesus appeared on flags
and uniforms of the soldiers, government formed under the wise inspiration of the Fathers of
the Company. A Republic of this kind could come, for him, whenever he wanted. His triumph would
half his fortune.

- I tell you, Fermin, I'm more Republican than you and would wholeheartedly with those good men
who knew as a child, who watched people like a shirtless, being great
people ... But Salvatierra now!

 The side window was next cut out and framed. After it had been framed it
measured 2 feet square.

THE FIREPLACE.

Then came the task of building our fireplace. First we sawed out the opening, cutting right
through the rear foundation log. Then we gathered from the river a large number of the flattest
stones we could find. With these we planned to build the three outer walls of our chimney.
But the question of getting mortar to bind the stones together bothered us for a while.

"If only we could find a bed of clay. Don't any of you know of one around here?" queried Bill.

But none of us remembered seeing any clay bed in the vicinity.

"If we were in south Jersey now," I said, "we could use some of that red mud they have down
there. It sticks like the mischief to shoes and pant legs. I bet it would hold those stones
together."

"Red mud? Why there's plenty of it over the hill, back of Lumberville," said Reddy. "All the
roads over there are red shale roads, and I saw some red banks along the river when we went
after the logs."

That was just what we wanted. The banks Reddy referred to turned out to be genuine red shale,
and soon we had ferried several scow loads of the stuff down to Kite Island. When the shale
was wet it made quite a sticky mortar. The foundations of the chimney were laid in a trench
about 2 feet deep, and the side walls of the chimney were carried inside of the cabin and covered
the ends of the logs at the chimney opening. The side walls extended outward a distance of
3 feet, where they were joined by the rear wall of the chimney.

THE PROPER WAY TO BUILD A STONE WALL.

In making our chimney we could not rely on the red shale to hold the stones as firmly as good
lime mortar would, so we had to be careful that each stone, as it was laid, had a firm bearing.
The stones were embedded in a thick layer of mud, and if they showed any tendency to teeter
we propped them up by wedging small stones under them until they lay solid. Another thing that
we were very careful about was to "break joints"; that is, to keep the joints in each layer
of the stones from coinciding with those in the next layer, above or below. To make sure of
this we made it a point to lay a stone over each joint in the top of the wall and then to fill
in the space between the stones with smaller stones. In this way the wall was made very substantial.

When the masonry had been carried up to the top of the chimney opening, a heavy timber about
12 inches wide was laid across the walls close against the wall of the building. This was to
support the fourth wall of the chimney, and so we flattened its upper surface. To prevent it
from catching fire it was covered with a thick plastering of mud, and then to keep the mud
from cracking and flaking off we procured a piece of tin and tacked it over the log. The tin
also extended over the top log of the opening. Then we went on with the building of the chimney
walls, carrying them up about a foot above the ridge of the roof. Our chimney was completed
by paving the bottom with stones, well packed in mud and nicely smoothed off to make the hearth.
The hearth extended about 18 inches into the cabin, and was framed with logs, as shown in Fig. 275.

THE FLOOR OF THE CABIN.

A number of logs were now laid on the ground to serve as floor beams. Slabs were used for the
floor. We had some trouble in making the floor perfectly even, because the floor beams were
rather irregular, and a great deal of time was spent in smoothing the logs off to a common
level. If we had the work to do over again we would have bought two or three planks and laid
them on edge to support the flooring.

THE DOOR HINGES AND LATCH.

A door was now constructed by battening together a number of slabs. In place of a hinge a hole
was drilled into the sill and another into the lintel directly in line with it. Two sticks
of wood were then whittled to fit snugly, but without jamming, into these holes. These sticks
were then nailed to the inner face of the door, with their whittled ends projecting into the
holes, forming pintles on which the door could turn. A narrow strip of wood was nailed to the
outer jamb for the door to close against. The latch consisted of a stick of wood, fastened
to the door at one end with a nail. It hooked onto a catch whittled out of hard wood to the
form illustrated in Fig. 278, and nailed to the jamb. Then to keep the latch from dropping
too far when the door was open, and to guide it when slammed against the catch, we whittled
out a guard piece to the form illustrated in Fig. 277, and nailed this to the door, with the
latch projecting through the slot of the guard. A string was now fastened to the latch and
passed through a hole in the door. A block was tied to the end of the latch string to prevent
it from slipping back through the hole; but at night, when we did not want to be molested by
any intruders, we untied the block and drew in the latch string.

THE WINDOW SASH.

For our windows we made wooden sashes which fitted nicely into the window openings. A small
hole was drilled through the sash at each side into the frame, and nails inserted in these
holes held the sash in place, and served also as hinge pins for the sash to turn on. The sash
could be taken out at any time by removing these nails. As we could not afford to use glass
for our windows, we covered the sashes first with cloth, and later, when it occurred to us
that in winter time it would be difficult to keep the cold air out, we used oiled paper.

BUNKS.

Our next work was directed toward providing sleeping accommodations in the log cabin. A large
log was laid on the floor the full length of the cabin, as far out as possible without interfering
with the opening of the front door. Stakes were laid across this log, with their opposite ends
wedged in between the logs of the wall. A nail or two in each slab held it in place. This formed
a sort of shelf 12 feet long, which was divided at the center to form two bunks, each wide
enough for two persons. But as there were six of us in the society, we had to provide two more
berths. A stout post was set into a hole in the ground, and nailed firmly at the bottom to
the lower berth log and at the top to one of the roof beams. This post supported a second berth
log, which extended the full length of the building at a height of about 3 feet from the floor,
and was wedged at the ends between the logs of the house. Cleats were nailed to the walls under
this berth log to make it perfectly secure. Then slabs were nailed across it to form the two bunks.

STOPPING UP THE CHINKS.

The log cabin was completed by stopping up all the chinks between the logs of the walls. Strips
of wood and bits of bark plastered with mud were driven into all the cracks and crevices until
everything was made perfectly tight.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE WINDMILL.

When our log cabin was completed we immediately transferred our camp from the tent to the hut.
But at the very outset we were confronted with the problem of getting drinking water. We hadn't
thought of that before. It was easy enough to move the filter barrels, but when it came to
moving the water wheel we could find no suitable place for it anywhere near the log cabin.
The water of Lake Placid was too quiet, while the mill-race and the rapids on the other side
of Kite Island ran so swiftly that we were afraid the water wheel would be swept away with
its course. The matter was carefully considered at a special meeting of the society. It occurred
to Bill that we might build a windmill in place of the water wheel, and use it to pump water
from a well which could be dug near the hut.

"We wouldn't have to use a filter, then," he said.

"Why not?" I asked.

"Why, because the sand of the island will strain out all the dirt in the water. You see, the
water in the well will have to soak in from the river, and by the time it gets through all
the gravel and sand between the river and the well it ought to be filtered pretty clear."

DIGGING THE WELL.

That sounded logical, and so we adopted the plan at once. We chose a spot quite near the hut
for our well. When we had dug down about 6 feet we struck water, but continued excavating until
the water lay 3 feet deep in the well. While making the excavation we shored up the sides with
planks, to prevent the loose soil from falling in on us and smothering us, as it so nearly
did when we were digging our first cave. By "shoring," I mean we lined the walls with planks,
which were driven into the ground with large wooden mallets. 

And speaking of that authority, with firm conviction, respecting it as necessary, after of having
violated many times in the rough adventures of his youth.

Salvatierra and old came out of the courtyard between the barking
of dogs, following the outside wall and came to a shed which gave
entrance to the Gañanía.

Under that lined the outside several jars with water supply for the braceros. Those who felt thirsty,
passing the stifling heat of chill Gañanía the night, and a dock
that looked like liquid ice water, the wind struck them sweaty backs.

Upon crossing the door, Salvatierra felt in his lungs the rarity of the air, while struck his
smell a stench of damp wool, rancid oil, clay and conglomerate, slimy flesh.

It was a long narrow piece, which seemed even bigger by the dense atmosphere and lack of light.
In the background was the home, which burned a fire of dried cow
dung, firing a foul odor.

A candle flame as a mark his red and shimmering tear in this environment nebulous. The rest
of the room, completely dark, was in darkness palpitations of life. Guessed the presence of
a crowd under the shroud of shadows.

Salvatierra, to reach the center of the miserable room could see better.

At home boiled monitored several pots made by women on their knees, and sat under the lamp the aerator,
the second officer of the house, which accompanied the laborers to cut and watched their tasks,
exciting with tough words which together with the overseer was what the government called the
farmhands farmhouse.

The herder was the only one who had a chair in the Gañanía, others, men and women would eat on
the ground. Beside him crouched Manolo Trebujena with friends, getting their spoons in hot soup
screw. The fog was dissipating in the eyes of Salvatierra, already accustomed to this atmosphere
stifling.

Then he saw in the corner groups of men and women sitting in the packed earth or rush mats.
Rain, cutting its work by mid-afternoon, they had done to advance the evening meal. About the
bowls of hot slop, talking and laughing moving spoons with some calm. Sensed that the next
day would be closure, forced idleness, and wished to remain awake late into the night.

The appearance of the Gañanía crowding of people, evoked the memory
of Salvatierra the memory of the prison.

They whitewashed walls, but here less white, smoked by the fuel vapor animal foul, oozing fat
by the continuous rubbing of unwashed bodies. Same hooks on the walls, and hanging from them
all the regalia of poverty, knapsacks, blankets, mattresses gutted, colorful blouses, hats dirty shoes
countless heavy patches with sharp nails.

In prison, each had a backpack, and the Gañanía only very few could
afford this luxury.

Most were sleeping on mats, without undressing, resting his aching bones work on hard ground. Bread,
cruel divinity forced to accept the existence miserable, rolled in
pieces on the floor, or are exhibited in the hooks, among the rags,
in huge teleras six pounds, as an idol who could be reached only after
a curvature day overwhelming.

Salvatierra was fixed on the faces of those people who watched him with curiosity, suspending for
an instant food, still holding hands with the spoon in the air.

Under the hats were deformed only covers misery, suffering and masks hunger. Young people had
the vigorous freshness few years. Laughed reflecting their eyes mocking spirit of the race,
the joy of living, without the burden of a family rejoicing the isolated
man, which is considered miserable, you can always move forward.

But men showed premature aging, broke into full maturity, the trembling of valetudinarians, revealing
about his aggressiveness in the eyes enlivened by flashes phosphorescent fierce, cramped with the
resignation other than just waiting for death the only freedom.

Bodies were dried, shriveled, annealed by the sun, cracked skin. Food, poor and weak, does not become
the slightest padding between the skeleton and its envelope. Men who had not yet forty years,
showed their emaciated necks, flabby skin and puffed, strained tendons with aging. The eyes, in
the depths of basin, surrounded by an aura of wrinkles, shining like stars fading in the background
a well. Their physical misery was the result of prolonged fatigue and over years, bland diet
of bread, just bread. The bodies seemed carved rough and angular an ax, others were deformed
and grotesque as being produced by a potter, many remembered, so twisted and gnarled trunks,
wild olive trees in the pastures. The black arms, with the sharp
ridges of a forced gym, looked like twisted branches.

Y stacking of these unhappy exhaled a pungent odor of sweat of the hungry, clothing attached
to the body for months, fetid breath, every breath apestante of misery.

The women even offered a more painful. Some were gypsies, old and ugly as witches, with tanned
skin and copper appeared to have passed through the fire of all Sabbaths. The girls were painful
and senseless beauty of anemia, flowers withered life that before opening; teens white skin,
pale as paper masks, which the sun I could not warm up, dyeing it at intervals with tiny spots
of color of bran. Virgin eyes wide open, as if surprised to be born with blue lips the pale pink
gums that reveals the misery of the blood. The sad and dull hair excited peeked under the handkerchief,
keeping in tangles and grain chaff ground. The chest was the most monotonous uniformity of
the wilderness, so that breathing is marked fabric under the slightest trace of the mounds
seductive advance proud as a crest of sex. Their hands were large and lean and bony arms and
men. When walking, moved about her skirts in a faint ease as if they only exist within air,
and sitting, the fabric marked angles without the faintest hard roundness. Work, bestial fatigue,
had stalled the development of feminine grace.

Only a few betrayed under their shell charms sex, but there were very few.

Forced to endure the same hardships that the male herd, only remembered that they were women
when late at night, dark and Gañanía, crammed into a corner were disturbed his sleep weary load
females by the boldness of the young men, that groped while the old
farmhands, cured of the illusion of life, snoring wildly as if to
sleep quicker to recover lost strength.

Salvatierra was at home when he saw the crowd gate stood up offering
his seat.

Zarandillo uncle sat on the floor next to Don Fernando, and he, looking
around, found Capers eyes and teeth gleaming horses smiling.

- Look
your honor, Sr.: This is my mom.

And he showed an old gypsy, Aunt Capers, who had just stew off the
heat chickpea by three little boys sniffed ravenously, brothers of
capers and a skinny girl, and large pale eyes, was his cousin Mari-Cruz.

-
"So your honor is that Don Fernando as nombrao? - Said the old .--
Well, God give him a lot pa fortune and a lot of life to be the stand
of the probes.

Deposited on land and the pot, sat with his family around him. It was a meal extraordinary. The
whiff of the beans provided some excitement in the Gañanía, making converge many looks of envy
in the group of Roma. Zarandillo had questions for the old mockingly. Overtime had fallen eh?
... Surely the previous day to go to Jerez, won some pesetillas telling fortunes or providing
powders magic to the kids who complained about the diversion of their lovers. Ah, you old witch!
Seemed impossible for both research had an ugly face ...

The gypsy listened smiling, while eagerly gobble up the beans, but when lying Zarandillo stopped
eating her ugliness.

- Caya, short-sighted, bad shadow. Gave premit you look toa life underground, like your brothers
moles ... If Ajora'm ugly, there were times when I kissed the Marquis
shoes.

Well You know, arrastrao ...

He added wistfully:

- I would not
be here if I lived the Marquis of San Dionisio, Sr. as he resalao
to Thu the godfather of my pobresito José María.

He pointed to Capers, who left his spoon to stand up with some pride to hear the name of his
godfather, which, as stated Zarandillo, was something more for him.

Salvatierra looked into the eyes of the old, evil and bleary, his snout goat, which contracted
to each word with a nasty ductility, the two plumes of gray bristles arising from his lips like
a cat whiskers. And this had been a woman Endriago young and funny, the crazy things that made
the famous Marquis! And the witch had gone many times in the cars of San Dionisio, the bizarre
are the ringing of the mules, shawl with flowers cayéndosele shoulder, a bottle in his hand
and a song the lips, face to the fields that were now wrinkled and disgusting like a caterpillar,
sweating from dawn to dusk over the rows and complaining of pain in his "pobresitos kidney!"
Was less old than it looked, but fatigue wear uníase rapid crash Oriental breeds suffer from
youth to old age, as the splendid days tropic jump from light to shade without any twilight.

Roma
continued eating his soup, and took from a pocket Salvatierra poor
packaging your dinner, after gently refuse the offers made him everywhere.

The

circle closest to him, where was the Trebujena, composed of former comrades famados poor workers
in the villages, some of which Don Fernando tuteaban following usual
practice among the ringers of the idea.

While eating the crust and the piece of cheese, I thought, with the
uncertainty of ever if it would be appropriating a food that could
be missing others, and this led to the set at the only one in the
whole Gañanía did not worry about dinner.

A young man's body was emaciated, with a red bandana knotted around
his neck and a shirt wrap around his chest.

From the bottom of the Gañanía peers called him, telling gazpacho that we had little in the
bowl, but he remained under candlelight, sitting on a piece of wood, bent it on a low coffee table, which
are embedded their knees as in a trap. He wrote slowly and laboriously, with a peasant stubbornness.
He had before him a piece of paper, and copied the lines with the help of an inkwell pocket
full of water slightly blackened, and a blunt pen traced the lines with the same patience of
the ox to open the groove.

Zarandillo, which was next to Don Fernando, spoke of the boy.

- The
Maestrico.

I long to call him by his love of books and papers.

Just Guervós labor already jaciendo pen in hand tallies.

Salvatierra Maestrico approached, and he turned his head to look, suspending a time task. We
expressed with some bitterness in explaining his desire to learn, removing hours sleep and rest.
He had been bred to beast at seven years was now lad in the cottages or pastor in the mountains,
hunger, shock and fatigue.

- And I want to know, Don Fernando, I want to be a man and not confounded seeing mares trot in
the age and thinking we are as irrational as them.

Everything that happens to the poor is because we do not know.

Bitterly watched his teammates, the people of the Gañanía, satisfied with his ignorance who mocked
him, calling him the Maestrico, and he even had the crazy seeing around spell work or pieces
of paper out of his belt pen and notebook, writing awkwardly to the wick of the candle. He had
had no teacher, taught himself. Suffering to think that others easily overcame the obstacles that
foreign aid seemed to him insurmountable.

But I had faith and went ahead, convinced that if everyone imitated him change the fate of
the earth.

- The world is the most knowledgeable, right, Fernando? If the rich are strong and treading and
do what they want, not because they have the money, but because they know more than us ... These
unfortunates were laughing at me when I tell them to teach, and I speak of the rich Sherry,
who are more barbarian than the farmhands. But that's not important! These rich we see closely
are some puppets, and they are the others, the truly rich, those who know, those who make the
laws of the world, and hold the intricacies of a few of them have
all and most have nothing.

If the employee knew what they would not be left cheat, they would face all the time, and at least
force them to be left on power with him.

Salvatierra admired the faith of this young keeper believed the remedy for all ills suffered by
the vast horde of misery. Instruct! Be men! ... Operators were a few thousands and hundreds
of millions of slaves. But just threaten their privileges, ignorant humanity chained to work, it
was so stupid, she herself was left to draw among its members the executioners, those wearing
a colorful costume and throwing the gun to face shot again to restore
the regime of pain and hunger, suffering the consequences then to
back down.

Ay! If men do not live blind and ignorant, how could continue this nonsense?

The candid statements of the boy, hungry for knowledge, were thought to Salvatierra. Maybe
this could see more clearly guilty, the men hardened in battle, they thought propaganda in
action and the immediate rebellion. It was a simple spirit, as early Christian believers, who
felt the doctrines of their religion more intensity that the Fathers of the Church. Its a slow
process was needed centuries, but its success seemed assured. And the revolutionary, listen
to win, they imagined a time where neither ignorance and the current workhorse, malnourished, with
a petrified and thought no other hope than the insufficient and debasing
charity metamorphose into a man.

The first conflict between the happy and unhappy, would break the old world. The large armies
organized by a society based on force, would serve to give the death. Uniformed workers lifted
the rifle butts handed to them their operators to defend them, or would use these weapons to enforce
the law the happiness of the more perverse pastors for centuries kept the human herd injustice. Suddenly
change the face of the world, no blood and no disasters. Disappear, with the armies and the laws
made by the powerful, all the antagonism between the happy and the unfortunate, all deposits and
cruelties that make the earth into a prison. Only men would. And this could be achieved as soon as
the vast majority of human The immense army of misery, it knew its strength, refusing to hold
for longer the work of the tradition!

...

Salvatierra humanitarian sentimentality was flattered by this generous dream of innocence. Change
the world without blood, with a theatrical coup, using the magic
wand instruction, without such violence that repelled a gentle soul
and always ending with the defeat of the unfortunate and cruel reprisals
from powerful!

...

The Maestrico still maintained their belief with a faith that illuminated her candid eyes. Ay!
If the poor know what they know who are rich ... These are strong and rule, because wisdom
is at your service. All discoveries and inventions of science fall in their hands, are for them, just
the waste coming from below. If anyone out miserable mass, rising capacity, rather than remaining
true to its origin, paying sibling support, deserted his post, turning their backs on a hundred
generations of grandparents slaves, crushed by injustice, and sold his body and intelligence to
tormentors, begging for a place among them. Ignorance was the worst servitude, the most heinous
martyrdom of the poor. But the isolated and individual instruction was useless: it only served to be
deserters, defectors, who were quick to side with the enemy. They were instructed all at the same
time: to acquire the bulk of his force knowledge, appropriate blow
the great achievements of human reason.

- Everyone!

You know what I mean, Don Fernando? All at once, shouting "We want no more trickery I do not serve
for more to continue. "

And Ferdinand nods approvingly. Yes, all at the same time, so had to be: all, shedding the skin of
bestiality resigned, only garment that tradition tended to keep on
his shoulders.

But again the Gañanía sight, full of shadow and smoke, cover your eyes believed all mankind
exploited and unhappy. Some had just eat soup, with which cheating their hunger, while others
stretched, satisfied belch, believing that it added digestion nothing broken force of his life,
all appeared brutish, nasty, no will out of his condition, believing in miracles as dimly only
hope, or thinking in Christian charity to let him rest a minute in
a desperate roll the costs of poverty. In making the frames
the sticks were fastened together with 1/2-inch bolts 6 inches long. It was quite a strain
on our pocketbooks to buy these bolts, but Uncle Ed had written that nails or spikes would
be useless to stand the strains of so large a bridge, and that if we could not get any bolts
we had better give up the idea of building a cantilever bridge. To make sure that we made no
mistakes, Uncle Ed had made a drawing of each different size of frame we would need, designating
each with a different letter, and then these same letters were marked on a general view of
the bridge, so that we would know exactly where the frames belonged. These drawings are reproduced
here in Figs. 305 to 316 and 318. We had to make four frames each, of the A, B, C and E sizes,
two each of the F, G and L sizes and one each of the H, I, J and K sizes. Of the D frames two
were made with the ends cut away on the outer half, as illustrated in Fig. 308, and two were
cut away at the inner side, the reason for which will appear presently. When fastening the
timbers together we cut notches in each stick, as shown in Fig. 317. The depth of each notch
was just one-quarter the diameter of the stick; that is, the notch was 3/4 of an inch deep
in a 3-inch stick and 1 inch deep in a 4-inch stick. Care was taken not to exceed this depth,
for fear of weakening the sticks. In the case of frame D, the sticks were not notched or mortised
together. It will be noticed that the measurements are given to the inner edges of the sticks
in some cases, and to the outer edges in others. The reason for this, as Uncle Ed explained
it, was because the thickness of our sticks would vary considerably, and it was important that
many of the measurements be exact, otherwise the frames would not fit into each other as they
should. Another thing to which he called our attention was the fact that frames A, B, E, F,
H, K and L were stiffened with cross braces, while the rest were not. The braced frames, he
wrote, were those which would be under a compression strain, while the others would be under
tension; that is, when any weight was placed on the bridge it would push against the ends of
the braced frames, trying to crush them, but would pull on the unbraced frames, trying to tear
them apart. In fact, the bridge would have been just as strong had we used heavy iron wire
in place of the unbraced frames, and the only reason Uncle Ed did not recommend our doing so
was because we had no simple way of stretching the wire taut.

ERECTING THE TOWERS.

We built the complete set of frames before attempting to erect the bridge. Then we began by
building the towers. Two A frames were set on end and spaced 4 feet apart at the top and 5
feet apart at the bottom, measuring not from the inner but from the outer edges of the frames.
In this position they were connected by short spars, notched in place. The notches for these
connecting spars will be seen in Fig. 305 on the main or vertical timbers of frame A, just
below the upper and middle cross sticks and above the lower cross sticks. The upper connecting
spars were wedged tightly under the cross sticks, and served as an additional support for them.
Diagonal braces were nailed from one frame to the other, as illustrated in Fig. 318. The towers
were built on opposite banks, at the mouth of the lagoon, and when completed we lowered them
carefully down the banks into the water. According to directions they were to be set just 30
feet apart, measuring from the center of one tower to the center of the other. The water was
quite shallow where the towers rested, but the bottom was pretty firm. Holes were dug in the
bottom for the legs of the tower to set into, and then large stones were piled around each
leg to provide a firm foundation for the towers.

SETTING UP THE FRAMES.

A B frame was now hauled out to one of the towers and lifted by its narrower end, with fall
and tackle, until its lower tie piece rested on the projecting ends of the center crosspieces
of the tower. The upper end of the frame was held against the top of the tower, while a C frame
was hooked over the upper ends of the tower legs; then frame B was allowed to swing outward
until its smaller end locked with the outer end of frame C. It will be observed in Fig. 306
that the upper crosspiece or tie piece of frame B was fastened to one side of the vertical
sticks and the lower tie piece to the other side. "But where
I had to get the student that all the glories Hindustani, all pilgrims treasures in this photograph
is surrounded?

- Look, sister, my friend is so rich and so abundant in his home objects of all kinds, that the
same appears as Hindustani in the picture could appear Greek time of Pericles, Egyptian magnate time of
the Pharaohs and the Ptolemies, contemporary Mirza Hafiz or feudal lord of the century of the
First Crusade. And always with the jewels, workmanship, requirements and other accessories that characterize
each character and are unique. Ziegesburg Isidoro, in short, has the most complete and wonderful
antiques and curio bazaar there in Vienna. What do I say in Vienna? in Europe there is none
to equal it. Isidoro, and by what he inherited from his father, for what has brought from his
travels around the world for four years, is the most notable and reputable of all flea. Understand
what happened and why I laugh. I laugh without being able to help.

And the Count Henry was laughing, and blushing Poldy as poppies, almost give him blows.

The count saw that his sister was furious, restrained his laughter and continued:

- I understand everything, because Isidore has a lovely country house five miles from this
castle. No stranger to ignore it, because you're always in the clouds, rapt in your dreams and
seeing the reality of things. Without doubt, in that cottage, must have Isidoro some domesticated
animals, including storks and white. Had a day's whim neck hanging from the stork three Sanskrit
poetry, truly made for him because is very clever and used student.

He wanted to tease someone, without providing for those who tease. And as luck that the lines
fall into your hands and you were you the teased.

What else could have happened, you know better than me.

- Yes I know, "said Poldy, and sadder and more dejected than angry. And now I ask: Is incompatible
to be odds-and belonging to the nobility?

- In any way incompatible. Subject of many bells in the day like today to bazaars, and buying
and selling antiques and curios of all kinds. I have heard Isidoro say the same, having just
returned from his travels, in Lisbon, had tremendous dime no less
than Palha, individual one of the most illustrious and ancient Portuguese
families, as witnessed by Cervantes in Don Quixote.

And without going so far in the very capital of Austria, is an egregious count who has a store
of glassware, and a very distinguished gentleman who has wool fabrics in the streets of Carinthia.
Why then, without dishonor of its bells and coats of arms, not having a dime a man of noble
lineage?

- Perhaps, said Poldy, Isidore of Ziegesburg into that account.

Perhaps your name on the genealogical table of the princely houses, ducal and comital, published
every year the Almanac de Gotha, or at least in the book of the counts, which also gives annually
to the press the same publisher Just Perthes.

- Do not kid yourself, buddy. Do not get tired.

I must tell you the truth, even grieve. And the truth Isidoro Ziegesburg is a Jew.

As soon as the Count Henry had uttered that word, that sounded like the trumpet of doom in
Poldy ears burning, raised and educated by his mother and his aunt, from the tender children in
the most ferocious anti-Semitism, when Poldy began to tremble like a restless and had a violent
fit of nervous laughter.

So violent was that Count Henry was filled with fear, called the
nurse and had to bring in a cup of lime Poldy.

When he finally calmed Poldy, and when he passed his insane laughter, began to sigh and sob, and
poured a flood of tears.

It still felt an odd twitch. With the handkerchief
wiped away the tears, but he rubbed the handkerchief with violence
by the cheeks and lips, as if to pulling the skin and kisses that
she had stamped the Indian prince, converted at odds-Israelite.

XI

After
Poldy got a little calm, fell silent and deep melancholy. Nothing
told her brother or his nurse. They did not dare to question Poldy.
Locked in her room, he was about to walk in the woods. Hardly could
be seen and treated by people in the castle lived. It was a sorrowful crowd of boys that watched the wagon with
their belongings ford the shallow water over to our island. We felt that the island was ours
by right of discovery and occupation, but we were powerless to force our claims. And what if
they did not insist on our leaving the island? It would not be the same place with strangers
around to meddle with our things.

DISPOSSESSED.

But the new owner of the island was even more of a boor than we had anticipated. As soon as
he landed he wanted to know what we were doing on his property, and peremptorily ordered us
off. Bill answered that we were camping there, and politely asked if we couldn't stay out the
summer. But Gill would not listen to the idea. We must get off the island that very day or
he would see to it that we did.

I tell you it made us boil. We were just itching to give the pompous little man the sound thrashing
he deserved, but knew that we would stand a very small show against his three powerful companions.
At any rate, we were determined not to leave at once. Instead, we repaired to Kite Island,
taking our belongings with us. Then we cut away the suspension, spar and pontoon bridges, so
that we would not be annoyed by any of the Gill crowd. We were resolved that they should not
benefit by any of the things we had built. Each These plaques
are, in the ports of summer, a hut, and the other a 'winter' hut to shelter people who herd cattle,
and the winter, building large and robust of lime and stone, barn and stables for a good herd of
cattle. Usually, each winter correspond to the cattles of eight or ten co-owners of "hazas" or
contiguous parts of the brane. Some of these winter were already occupied. At night the cattle eat
pinned to the manger, of "priming" the barn, mowed in August hazas, pasta day outdoors, while time
consent, the care of their owners, who after leaving gathered at dusk down to sleep in the
village, unlike in summer, during which they sleep huddled in the hut, leaving the cabin "acurriada",
ie, the flock gathered around it. The stud are more independent and free, and stood, wild state,
where less we thought.

Pete was very rough, and it happened more than once I go very careless
and feel my back a ferocious roar that made me make two turns in the
air.

It was the shotgun's gaznápiro: a escopetón older and patched the jokes, he had made one of
hers. Pito not tired to tell anyone or taking the slightest precaution when a part is put throw,
ie, as he peered, both in the air than for Matos, who through the mountains is over, because
for a weapon the size of yours and the stuck shrapnel that had not far and fences: it threw
in the face, and above of my shoulder or between the legs of Chisco, as requested by the situation
of things and people, without getting tired of saying 'there goes that', "puuunnn!" It was
like the end of world: the mountains tremble, and the piece was not only dead, but in tatters,
because He did not lose once, or a single grain piece of shrapnel escopetón.

And the piece was a hare, a fox, a bobcat, a "Aeschylus" (squirrel), a pheasant or a vermin of
regular size, it is very noticeable that in this and other similar
strains are animals he encounters one going for a walk, even for sites
nearest to the people clothing as elsewhere in the world, is not it,
with the domestic cat, loving dog or poultry.

Chisco behaved very differently than his comrade: everything was unchanged in most at least that
its placidity of the continent. If I put a piece shot with a hand me stopped smoothly, with
the other pointed me, and with an expressive gesture or half word
I implied that was down to me.

If I wandered the coup, as was almost always, he'd he amended, if not anticipated the shotgun
from where less could Chorcos wait, and I noticed in the first case, some malicious pleasure
in the look me directed, while kicking the victim on the floor or down from the sky tumbling
as if to say: "Nah, you how not val Vey a pitu that shotgun, to be as nice as it is?" But Chisco
are greatly mistaken, because the weapon was excellent, and very decent ammunition it.
 The towers were really too short to make a well proportioned bridge, for
the panels had to be made very long and narrow, so as to reach across. But on the whole it
was a very creditable structure when completed, though it had only half as long a span as our
cantilever bridge over the lagoon. Not had a packing list that burst in curses against the decline
of the wines of Jerez.

- You have not reached the proper time, Ferminillo - continued, - why take things so composure.
You are from the modern, who believe that things are going well because we sell cognac much as any
house of foreign countries, whose vineyards produce only crap, God grant without the slightest
semblance to Jerez ... Tell me, you who have run world, where have you seen our Palomino grape,
nor of vintages, or the battery Mantua, or the Cañocaso, neither canine nor the Pedro Ximenez?
... What have you to see! It is only breeding earth is a gift from God ... and, as rich, cognac
or wine manufacture of imitation because Jerez, Jerez true is no longer fashionable, say these gentlemen
from abroad! Here are just warehouses. These are liquor stores, drugstores, anything but what
they were in another time and come on, that makes me want to fly away never to return, when you
present with these confetti, asking me to do another fake.

The old man heard indignant responses Fermín.

- These are requirements of modern commerce, Mr Vincent, have changed business and pleasure the
public.

- Well, do not drink, porra!, Leave us alone, without requiring them to dress our wines, will keep
them safely stored for they age, and I am sure someday we will look for justice coming to its
knees ... This has changed a lot. The England must be lost. No need to tell me, too I see it
getting here visits. Before British came under the winery, but the passengers were people of distinction:
Lords and Lords, the lowest. Gave glory to see how air apimplaban lordship. Cup from here,
to place an order! Cup there to compare!, And so went to the winery, serious as priests, until
the output had to lie on the buggy to take them to the inn. Know and do justice to taste good
... Now, when playing in Cadiz boat English, arrive in droves, with a guide at the front, prove
anything because there is free and, if buy something, they are content with bottles of three
pesetas. Do not know drunk with nobility: shouting, arm brawl and go staggering down the street to
the lads laugh. I thought before all the English were rich, and it turns out this gang are
traveling in any thing, cobblers or London shopkeepers to take the
air out the savings of the year ... So leave the business.

Montenegro smiled listening to incoherent lamentations of the old.

- Furthermore - continued the grocer - in England, as here, the customs are lost old. Many English people
do not drink more than water, and, as I have said, it is not elegant after eating, the ladies
are going to talk to a room, while men remain drinking up the servants to take the trouble to remove
them from under the table. They no longer need evening as a nightcap, a couple of bottles of
sherry that cost a bunch shillings. Those who still get drunk to prove they are gentlemen, they
use what they call long drinks - is not this, you who have been there? - crap that cost little and
allow drinking and drinking before apimplarse, the wischy with soda and other disgusting concoctions.
Ordinariness dominates. Xerrrez as no longer ask when they come here and find it for free. The
only Jerez we appreciate the land, will soon just buy us. They drunk with cheap stuff, and
so leave their affairs. In the Transvaal almost burst. The best day I pasted into the sea with
all its handsomeness. Decay: no longer are the same those times when the house was a warehouse
Dupont little bigger than a shack, but sent their bottles to your
cellar and Mr. Pitt, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Velintón and other gentlemen
whose names appear on the sills oldest large winery.

Montenegro was still laughing when he heard these laments.

- Laugh, boy, laughing. You are all the same: they have known good and you wonder the I find that
bad old today. You know how they paid before the boot of thirty a arrobas? Well, was worth 230
pesos, and has now sold in some years to 21 pesos. Ask your father, but less old than I, also
called the golden era. The money flowed in Jerez as well as the air. There were planters who
used and lived calanes in a shack on the outskirts and poor, lit by a lamp, but to pay a bill
threw a bag they had under the pine nightstand like a sack of potatoes, Nah, you take and ounces!
Workers in the vineyards charged thirty to forty real wages, and allowed the fantasy of going
to the block in surrey and patent leather shoes. Nothing newspapers, or harangues, or rallies.
Wherever people gathered sounding guitar, streak released each and every ram that God is shaking
like meat ... If Fernando Salvatierra had appeared then, your father's crony, with all these
things poor and rich, land deals and rivoluciones, we have offered a reed and had said: "Sit
your honor on the floor, comrade, drink, sing, take a dance with if this young lady like and
do not mind bad blood in our lives, which is not of the worst "... But the British soon as
we drink, the money comes less frequently in Jerez, and thereby hidden condemned that nobody sees.
Workers in the vineyards and have won ten real face of vinegar. In case you have to trim with
a knife or scissors, kill each other, there Mano Negra and the square of the prison were given
stick to men what had not been seen in many years Jerez. The laborer just click like a hedgehog
spoken to, and love is worse than before. You do not see the gentlemen alternating with the
poor in the vintage, dancing and flirting with girls as a young farmhand. Guard runs the civil
field and in the times we went bandits on the roads ... And everything what, sir? As I say,
because the English are fond of fucking and whischy ignore the good wood cutting, or palm,
or any other of the excellence of this blessed land ... What I say money, money come, come back
here, as in other times, pounds, guineas and shillings and no more strikes, and sermons Salvatierra
and his supporters, and the evil acts of civilians, and all the misery and shame that we now
see! ...

The bottom of the hold out a cry calling Mr. Vicente. He was a doubter cast aside with the white
numbers drawn in front of a boot and asked for clarification the storekeeper.

- I, son! - Shouted the old man .-- Beware of mistakes in medicine!

...

And he added to Montenegro:

- Let that slip of paper in the darkroom and I hope that you drop your hands before you get
me more recipes, as if I were a chemist.

The old man walked with slow step and swaying to the bottom of the
cellar, and Montenegro came it through the cooperage shop before returning
to the desktop.

It was a large yard with sheds, under which striking coopers worked
with their decks rings that held the wood.

The casks to medium build, with only top secured by iron hoops, opened their staves over a fire
of chips that warmed, bending to facilitate closure.

Home business forced it to a ceaseless production workshop.

Hundreds of barrels out of it every week to be shipped in Cadiz,
spreading wines Dupont worldwide.

On one side of the courtyard stood a tower formed with staves. At the top of the fragile edifice
two students were picking up throwing them from below, mixing, adding new height to the fragile
construction that exceeded the roof and threatened to collapse, swaying at the slightest movement
as a house of cards.

The head of the cooperage, a stocky, good-natured smile, approached Montenegro.

- How is Don Fernando? ...

Felt by the agitator great respect from his days as a laborer.

Protection Dupont and ductility that folded all his hobbies, he had raised. But as compensation
to the servility that had become the head of the workshop, had a secret affection for the
revolutionary and their associates at the time of misery. Thoroughly learned how he had gone
the presidio Salvatierra and their future life plans.

- I'll go
see him when he can - he said, lowering his voice, - the master does
not find out ... Yesterday we had big party at the church of the Jesuits
and by the afternoon I went with my girls to visit Mrs. ... I know
that you passed the day.

I have said here at the winery.

With the fear of a server that is afraid to lose fat enough welfare, gave advice to the young.
Ojo, Ferminillo! The house was full of informers. When he was aware, would not be Don Pablo surprising
news that had already had visited Montenegro Salvatierra.

And as if afraid to talk too and someone watching him, took his leave hurriedly Fermin, returning
to the side of the workers who beat the drums. Montenegro continued Later, entering the main
cellar of the house, where they kept the old sills aged and aged wines.

It was like a cathedral, but a white cathedral, crisp, bright, with its five naves separated columns
of three rows of simple capital. Agrandábase the footsteps same in a temple. The vaults thundered
with the sound of voices repeating widened by the echo. The walls were torn by the white glass
windows and two gable there were two large rosettes, also white, one of which penetrated the
sun, moving light beam in the restive iridescent dust molecules.

Along the colonnades alineábase in swaths of wealth of the house, the triple row lying barrels,
which were in their faces the figure for the year of harvest.

There were barrels venerable covered with cobwebs and dust, so wet the wood, which seemed close
to undone. They were the patriarchs of the cellar: they were baptized with the names of heroes
who enjoyed worldwide fame when they were born. A barrel is called Napoleon, another Nelson;
had adorned with the royal crown of England, because they had drunk monarchs of Great Britain.
An ancient oak, completely isolated, as if the friction with others could be gutted, exhibited
the venerable name of Noah. It was the most senior the house dated from the mid eighteenth century
and the first of the Dupont had acquired and as a relic. Near it were ranged other barrels they
did under the shield Spain's real names of all the monarchs and infants
who had visited Jerez in course of the century.

The rest of the hold filled samples of all crops, from the first years of the century. A single
barrel spreading a pungent perfume, which, as I said Montenegro, "filled mouth water. " He
was a famous vinegar, one hundred and thirty years old.

And the smell uníanse dry and pungent sweet perfume of sweet wines, and soft leather, the dry.
The alcoholic vapor transpired oak barrels and the smell of the drops spilled on the ground
for the transfer, permeated with the scent of the quiet gentle madness
atmosphere of the cellar, white, like an ice palace, trembling under
the caress of inflamed by the sun glasses.

Fermin went through, and was already out of it when he heard his name called from the bottom.
Experienced a shock to know the voice. Was 'the master', who accompanied some outsiders. With
him was his cousin Luis, a Dupont was lower only in some years to Don Pablo, respected him
as head of the family, without depriving him of this in great trouble
with his behavior disarray.

Dupont accompanied the two newlyweds who had come from Madrid, teaching holds. He was an old friend of
a gay life in Madrid comrade who had sat head end by marrying.

- You have to get out of here drunk - Dupont said the young newlyweds .-- It ritual: we would consider
disgraced if a friend out of this house it came.

And Dupont the most benevolent smile welcomed with the words of his cousin, while listing the
excellence of each wine famous. The manager of the winery, stiff as a soldier, placed before
the barrels with two glasses in one hand and the other compromise, a rod iron topped by a narrow
saucepan.

- Saca, Juanito! - Imperiously ordered the master.

The compromise was sinking into different barrels, and in one fell
swoop, without spilling a drop, he filled the glasses.

Out air and light golden wine, crowned with brilliant falling into the glass, spreading around
an intense perfume of old age.

All shades Amber, from light gray to pale yellow, shining in those dense liquid view as oil, but
in a clear transparency. A distant exotic perfume, which made fantastic flowers think of a supernatural
world where there was eternal, emanated of these liquids extracted from the mystery of the casks. Life
seemed to accrue to the palate; charged senses new intensity, the blood burned in his trampling
on circulation and the smell was excited feeling unknown longing,
as if sniff a new electricity in the atmosphere.

The couple drank all travelers, after resist weak protests Luis invitations.

-
Hi, Barbie! - Dupont told the child to see Montenegro .-- How is your
family? One day of these go into the vineyard. I want to try a horse
that I bought yesterday.

And after shaking hands with Montenegro
and take several pats on the shoulders, satisfied able to demonstrate
the strength of his big hands to those friends, he turned his back.

Fermin
had great confidence in this gentleman. It tuteaban, had grown up
together in the vineyard Marchamalo, with that frankness of treatment
enabled the Dupont family.

With Don Pablo, the situation was different.
The master did not differ from Fermin in over half a dozen years,
also had seen him as a boy running through the vineyard in the late
times Don Paul, but now was the head of the family, the head of the
house, and he understood the authority to use old, grim and indisputable
as God, with shouts and outbursts of anger, just sensed the slightest
disobedience.

- Stay - briefly ordered Montenegro, - I have to talk. 

It's harder than it seems to show ingenuity, discretion, tact and, above all, art in trivialities
and pettiness that is the subject forced the beginning of the visits "in full" we all do, which makes
the whole world. It is easier to win a battle to enter on time and well toned in those worthless
symphonies of comedy that will represent later. I have the courage to declare, as I'm concerned,
I almost always I see in these trances, he entered at the wrong time and tune, and the more
I endeavor to amend the blunders, the worse I get. But so help me comfort that I view it more
blunders mine and to enormous inconvenience and nonsense where fewer were expected for the quality
refined actors. Well, precisely in the same dangerous trance was where I started I foresee the 'quarry'
of that young man, bare-chested and almost child clothes, mediquillo simple of a hamlet buried
in mountains, in the presence of a smart Madrid, tired running the idle rich world, and certainly
not by what I said or what he did, but for the opposite: so shut up and so did not want to do,
or better yet he knew so well just shut up and sit still, and choose what I said and how to
say. Everyone has a desire to be a bit sharp, a little funny and a little naughty in front of
people, hence the follies and inconveniences, and almost anyone it happens to be sincere, which,
good education and a dash of common sense, have no guarantee of becoming "evil" there or anywhere,
it is not loose at the time warranty essentially communicative reach. For full sincerity, and
at its highest degree, together with a good understanding, was the first thing which I took
to see in the mediquillo of Tablanca.

Speaking of the illness of my uncle told me it was fatal. Was ... (And here laughing stopped to
ask forgiveness for the words she was going to drop) in a dilation
heart ... asystolic state ...

- In current Castilian - added with
a gesture and a very natural and expressive gesture - is the old machine
whose body begins to decompose.

It hindered the wheel of the heart could be impeded as another major. For some of them had to
start the inevitable ruin. When consumed it, when the machine stops, it is not possible to calculate
a date fixed either by me or by those who know of these things I
do: the same can stand inside six months at the moment.

What is certain is that there is no time machine.

Although it was well persuaded me, confirming my suspicions as authorized by lips I was a very painful
effect. Apart from the blood ties that bound me to Don Celso, personal qualities in him that made
him very sticky to the affection of those who treated him.

Speaking of his illness, he sought other similar and many others, without seeming to them, had, however,
the same dismal outcome: death of the patient, and already this way, we ended the proverbial
"discouraged" by the learned in the "healing art" as collate and
compare the resources of his science with the miserable man's physical
condition; only that the boy that, in agreeing with me on the ineffectiveness
of medicine in most cases of hardship, not her hands to her head,
or reneged on the human capacity, nor was any hope that they would
go and slowly fixing these problems' heroes and the martyrs of science
"on the contrary, without denying that studying hard was ascertained
something more than what was known in the art, given the current failures,
and even the coming for one thing needful, and which already had him
to begin his studies, ie not I noticed the slightest spark of enthusiasm
for his profession, nor the slightest sign of disappointment to practice
playing it their poor resources.

Declaróme honestly and fairly so was true, and with this and a little cunning mine, we were
going step by step on the field I wanted to drive you, or better, knowing it was all I needed
to just met "inside."

He was a native of Robacio (like Chisco), and his father, Don Servando Celis, a man of art Celso
my uncle, had hoped to make health care because he already had another son, the eldest, studying
law at Valladolid.
 I was sick of sight, legs, head, kidney, everything except the stomach. Deprived
of resources, I have to digest like a vulture.

- So does me. But I'll take it the wrong way, ma'am. If it were, the females did not show much sympathy,
and would keep any respect. His only pleasure was fun to see others the joy reigned around him.
To achieve this, efforts had incredible skill and annoyed beyond words.
 The darkness grew rapidly, and is no longer allowed
even see the orange, or directed, or find his way to back out.

He was then wandering aimlessly, much troubled and dying of hunger
and fatigue, as discerned not far from some bright lights. Furthermore,
it could fool you into illusions of boys, and of all kinds, his father had quite right to get in
there to give an occupation that, at least, was to enlighten understanding and put you in touch
with the world.