They all seemed very friendly. The ponies turned around and looked at me with their gentle
eyes, and then went on munching their hay. I wondered very much where the gander was, and went
a little farther into the stable. Something white raised itself up out of the brownest pony's
crib, and there was the gander close up beside the open mouth of his friend. The monkeys make
a jabbering noise, and held on to the bars of their cage with their little black hands, while
they looked out at me. The dogs sniffed the air, and wagged their tails, and tried to put their
muzzles through the bars of their cage. I liked the dogs best, and I wanted to see the one
they called Bob, so I went up quite close to them. There were two little white dogs, something
like Billy, two mongrel spaniels, an Irish terrier, and a brown dog asleep in the corner, that
I knew must be Bob. He did look a little like me, but he was not quite so ugly for he had his
ears and his tail.

While I was peering through the bars at him, a man came in the stable. He noticed me the first
thing, but instead of driving me out, he spoke kindly to me, in a language that I did not understand.
So I knew that he was the Italian. How glad the animals were to see him! The gander fluttered
out of his nest, the ponies pulled at their halters, the dogs whined and tried to reach his
hands to lick them, and the monkeys chattered with delight. He laughed and talked back to them
in queer, soft-sounding words. Then he took out of a bag on his arm, bones for the dogs, nuts
and cakes for the monkeys, nice, juicy carrots for the ponies, some green stuff for the goats,
and corn for the gander.

It was a pretty sight to see the old man feeding his pets, and it made me feel quite hungry,
so I trotted home. I had a run down town again that evening with Mr. Morris, who went to get
something from a shop for his wife. He never let his boys go to town after tea, so if there
were errands to be done, he or Mrs. Morris went. The town was bright and lively that evening,
and a great many people were walking about and looking into the shop windows.

When we came home, I went into the kennel with Jim, and there I slept till the middle of the
night. Then I started up and ran outside. There was a distant bell ringing, which we often
heard in Fairport, and which always meant fire.

CHAPTER XXXIV A FIRE IN FAIRPORT

I HAD several times run to a fire with the boys, and knew that there was always great noise
and excitement. There was a light in the house, so I knew that somebody was getting up. I don't
think indeed I know, for they were good boys that they ever wanted anybody to lose property,
but they did enjoy seeing a blaze, and one of their greatest delights, when there hadn't been
a fire for some time, was to build a bonfire in the garden.

Jim and I ran around to the front of the house and waited. In a few minutes, some one came
rattling at the front door, and I was sure it was Jack. But it was Mr. Morris, and without
a word to us, he set off almost running toward the town. We followed after him, and as we hurried
along other men ran out from the houses along the streets, and either joined him; or dashed
ahead. They seemed to have dressed in a hurry, and were thrusting their arms in their coats,
and buttoning themselves up as they went. Some of them had hats and some of them had none,
and they all had their faces toward the great red light that got brighter and brighter ahead
of us. "Where's the fire?" they shouted to each other. "Don't know afraid it' s the hotel,
or the town hall. It's such a blaze. Hope not. How's the water supply now? Bad time for a fire."

It was the hotel. We saw that as soon as we got on to the main street. There were people all
about, and a great noise and confusion, and smoke and blackness; and up above, bright tongues
of flame were leaping against the sky. Jim and I kept close to Mr. Morris's heels, as he pushed
his way among the crowd. When we got nearer the burning building, we saw men carrying ladders
and axes, and others were shouting directions, and rushing out of the hotel, carrying boxes
and bundles and furniture in their arms. From the windows above came a steady stream of articles,
thrown among the crowd. A mirror struck Mr. Morris on the arm, and a whole package of clothes
fell on his head and almost smothered him; but he brushed them aside and scarcely noticed them.
There was something the matter with Mr. Morris I knew by the worried sound of his voice when
he spoke to any one. I could not see his face, though it was as light as day about us, for
we had got jammed in the crowd, and if I had not kept between his feet, I should have been
trodden to death. Jim, being larger than I was, had got separated from us.

Presently Mr. Morris raised his voice above the uproar, and called, "Is every one out of the
hotel?" A voice shouted back, "I'm going up to see."

"It's Jim Watson, the fireman," cried some one near. "He's risking his life to go into that
pit of flame. Don't go, Watson." I don't think that the brave fireman paid any attention to
this warning, for an instant later the same voice said "He's planting his ladder against the
third story. He's bound to go. He'll not get any farther than the second, anyway."

"Where are the Montagues?" shouted Mr. Morris. "Has any one seen the Montagues?"

"Mr. Morris! Mr. Morris!" said a frightened voice, and young Charlie Montague pressed through
the people to us. "Where's papa?"

"I don't know. Where did you leave him?" said Mr. Morris, taking his hand and drawing him closer
to him. "I was sleeping in his room," said the boy, "and a man knocked at the door and said,
'Hotel on fire. Five minutes to dress and get out,' and papa told me to put on my clothes and
go downstairs, and he ran up to mamma."

"Where was she?" asked Mr. Morris, quickly.

"On the fourth flat. She and her maid Blanche were up there. You know, mamma hasn't been well
and couldn't sleep, and our room was so noisy that she moved upstairs where it was quiet."
Mr. Morris gave a kind of groan. "Oh I'm so hot, and there's such a dreadful noise," said the
little boy, bursting into tears, "and I want mamma." Mr. Morris soothed him as best he could,
and drew him a little to the edge of the crowd.

While he was doing this, there was a piercing cry. I could not see the person making it, but
I knew it was the Italian's voice. He was screaming, in broken English that the fire was spreading
to the stables, and his animals would be burned. Would no one help him to get his animals out?
There was a great deal of confused language. Some voices shouted, "Look after the people first.
Let the animals go." And others said, "For shame. Get the horses out." But no one seemed to
do anything, for the Italian went on crying for help. I heard a number of people who were standing
near us say that it had just been found out that several persons who had been sleeping in the
top of the hotel had not got out. They said that at one of the top windows a poor housemaid
was shrieking for help. Here in the street we could see no one at the upper windows, for smoke
was pouring from them.

The air was very hot and heavy and I didn't wonder that Charlie Montague felt ill. He would
have fallen on the ground if Mr. Morris hadn't taken him in his arms, and carried him out of
the crowd. He put him down on the brick sidewalk, and unfastened his little shirt, and left
me to watch him, while he held his hands under a leak in a hose that was fastened to a hydrant
near us. He got enough water to dash on Charlie's face and breast, and then seeing that the
boy was reviving, he sat down on the curbstone and took him on his knee. Charlie lay in his
arms and moaned. He was a delicate boy, and he could not stand rough usage as the Morris boys
could.

Mr. Morris was terribly uneasy. His face was deathly white, and he shuddered whenever there
was a cry from the burning building. "Poor souls God help them. Oh, this is awful," he said;
and then he turned his eyes from the great sheets of flame and strained the little boy to his
breast. At last there were wild shrieks that I knew came from no human throats. The fire must
have reached the horses. Mr. Morris sprang up, then sank back again. He wanted to go, yet he
could be of no use. There were hundreds of men standing about, but the fire had spread so rapidly,
and they had so little water to put on it that there was very little they could do. I wondered
whether I could do anything for the poor animals. I was not afraid of fire, as most dogs, for
one of the tricks that the Morris boys had taught me was to put out a fire with my paws. They
would throw a piece of lighted paper on the floor, and I would crush it with my forepaws; and
if the blaze was too large for that, I would drag a bit of old carpet over it and jump on it.
I left Mr. Morris, and ran around the corner of the street to the back of the hotel. It was
not burned as much here as in the front, and in the houses all around, people were out on their
roofs with wet blankets, and some were standing at the window watching the fire, or packing
up their belongings ready to move if it should spread to them. There was a narrow lane running
up a short distance toward the hotel, and I started to go up this, when in front of me I heard
such a wailing, piercing noise, that it made me shudder and stand still. The Italian's animals
were going to be burned up and they were calling to their master to come and get them out.
Their voices sounded like the voices of children in mortal pain. I could not stand it. I was
seized with such an awful horror of the fire that I turned and ran, feeling so thankful that
I was not in it. As I got into the street I stumbled over something. It was a large bird a
parrot, and at first I thought it was Bella. Then I remembered hearing Jack say that the Italian
had a parrot. It was not dead, but seemed stupid with the smoke. I seized it in my mouth, and
ran and laid it at Mr. Morris's feet. He wrapped it in his handkerchief, and laid it beside him.

I sat, and trembled, and did not leave him again. I shall never forget that dreadful night.
It seemed as if we were there for hours, but in reality it was only a short time. The hotel
soon got to be all red flames, and there was very little smoke. The inside of the budding had
burned away, and nothing more could be gotten out. The firemen and all the people drew back,
and there was no noise. Everybody stood gazing silently at the flames. A man stepped quietly
up to Mr. Morris, and looking at him, I saw that it was Mr. Montague. He was usually a well-dressed
man, with a kind face, and a head of thick, grayish brown hair. Now his face was black and
grimy, his hair was burnt from the front of his head, and his clothes were half torn from his
back. Mr. Morris sprang up when he saw him, and said "Where is your wife?"

The gentleman did not say a word, but pointed to the burning building. "Impossible!" cried
Mr. Morris. "Is there no mistake? Your beautiful young wife, Montague. Can it be so?" Mr. Morris
was trembling from head to foot.

"It is true," said Mr. Montague, quietly. "Give me the boy." Charlie had fainted again and
his father took him in his arms, and turned away.

"Montague!" cried Mr. Morris, "my heart is sore for you. Can I do nothing?"

"No, thank you," said the gentleman, without turning around; but there was more anguish in
his voice than in Mr. Morris's, and though I am only a dog, I knew that his heart was breaking.

CHAPTER XXXV BILLY AND THE ITALIAN

MR. MORRIS stayed no longer. He followed Mr. Montague along the sidewalk a little way, and
then exchanged a few hurried words with some men who were standing near, and hastened home
through streets that seemed dark and dull after the splendor of the fire. Though it was still
the middle of the night, Mrs. Morris was up and dressed and waiting for him. She opened the
hall door with one hand and held a candle in the other. I felt frightened and miserable, and
didn't want to leave Mr. Morris, so I crept in after him.

"Don't make a noise," said Mrs. Morris. "Laura and the boys are sleeping, and I thought it
better not to wake them. It has been a terrible fire, hasn't it? Was it the hotel?" Mr. Morris
threw himself into a chair and covered his face with his hands.

"Speak to me, William!" said Mrs. Morris, in a startled tone. "You are not hurt, are you?"
and she put her candle on the table and came and sat down beside him.

He dropped his hands from his face, and tears were running down his cheeks. "Ten lives lost,"
he said; "among them Mrs. Montague."

Mrs. Morris looked horrified, and gave a little cry, "William, it can't be so!"

It seemed as if Mr. Morris could not sit still. He got up and walked to and fro on the floor.
"It was an awful scene, Margaret. I never wish to look upon the like again. Do you remember
how I protested against the building of that deathtrap. Look at the wide, open streets around
it, and yet they persisted in running it up to the sky. God will require an account of those
deaths at the hands of the men who put up that building. It is terrible this disregard of human
lives. To think of that delicate woman and her death agony." He threw himself in a chair and
buried his face in his hands.

"Where was she? How did it happen? Was her husband saved, and Charlie?" said Mrs. Morris, in
a broken voice.

"Yes; Charlie and Mr. Montague are safe. Charlie will recover from it. Montague's life is done.
You know his love for his wife. Oh, Margaret! when will men cease to be fools? What does the
Lord think of them when they say, 'Am I my brother's keeper?' And the other poor creatures
burned to death their lives are as precious in his sight as Mrs. Montague's."

Mr. Morris looked so weak and ill that Mrs. Morris, like a sensible woman, questioned him no
further, but made a fire and got him some hot tea. Then she made him lie down on the sofa,
and she sat by him till day-break, when she persuaded him to go to bed. I followed her about,
and kept touching her dress with my nose. It seemed so good to me to have this pleasant home
after all the misery I had seen that night. Once she stopped and took my head between her hands,
"Dear old Joe," she said, tearfully, "this a suffering world. It's well there's a better one
beyond it."

In the morning the boys went down town before breakfast and learned all about the fire. It
started in the top story of the hotel, in the room of some fast young men, who were sitting
up late playing cards. They had smuggled wine into their room and had been drinking till they
were stupid. One of them upset the lamp, and when the flames began to spread so that they could
not extinguish them, instead of rousing some one near them, they rushed downstairs to get some
one there to come up and help them put out the fire. When they returned with some of the hotel
people, they found that the flames had spread from their room, which was in an "L" at the back
of the house, to the front part, where Mrs. Montague's room was, and where the housemaids belonging
to the hotel slept. By this time Mr. Montague had gotten upstairs, but he found the passageway
to his wife's room so full of flames and smoke, that, though he tried again and again to force
his way through, he could not. He disappeared for a time, then he came to Mr. Morris and got
his boy, and took him to some rooms over his bank, and shut himself up with him. For some days
he would let no one in; then he came out with the look of an old man on his face, and his hair
as white as snow, and went out to his beautiful house in the outskirts of the town.

Nearly all the horses belonging to the hotel were burned. A few were gotten out by having blankets
put over their heads, but the most of them were so terrified that they would not stir.

The Morris boys said that they found the old Italian sitting on an empty box, looking at the
smoking ruins of the hotel. His head was hanging on his breast, and his eyes were full of tears.
His ponies were burned up, he said, and the gander, and the monkeys, and the goat, and his
wonderful performing dogs. He had only his birds left, and he was a ruined man. He had toiled
all his life to get this troupe of trained animals together, and now they were swept from him.
It was cruel and wicked, and he wished he could die. The canaries, and pigeons, and doves,
the hotel people had allowed him to take to his room, and they were safe. The parrot was lost
an educated parrot that could answer forty questions, and, among other things, could take a
watch and tell the time of day.

Jack Morris told him that they had it safe at home, and that it was very much alive, quarrelling
furiously with his parrot Bella. The old man's face brightened at this, and then Jack and Carl,
finding that he had had no breakfast, went off to a restaurant near by, and got him some steak
and coffee. The Italian was very grateful, and as he ate, Jack said the tears ran into his
coffee cap. He told them how much he loved his animals, and how it "made ze heart bitter to
hear zem crying him to deliver zem from ze raging fire."

The boys came home, and got their breakfast and went to school. Miss Laura did not go out She
sat all day with a very quiet, pained face and could neither read nor sew, and Mr. and Mrs.
Morris were just as unsettled. They talked about the fire in low tones, and I could see that
they felt more sad about Mrs. Montague's death than if she had died in an ordinary way. Her
dear little canary Barry, died with her. She would never be separated from him, and his cage
had been taken up to the top of the hotel with her. He probably died an easier death than his
poor mistress. Charley's dog escaped, but was so frightened that he ran out to their house,
outside the town.

At tea time, Mr. Morris went down town to see that the Italian got a comfortable place for
the night. When he came back, he said that he had found out that the Italian was by no means
so old a man as he looked and that he had talked to him about raising a sum of money for him
among the Fairport people, till he had become quite cheerful, and said that if Mr. Morris would
do that, he would try to gather another troupe of animals together and train them.

"Now, what can we do for the Italian?" asked Mrs. Morris. "We can't give him much money, but
we might let him have one or two of our pets. There's Billy, he's a bright, little dog, and
not two years old yet. He could teach him anything."

There was a blank silence among the Morris children. Billy was such a gentle, lovable, little
dog, that he was a favorite with every one in the house. "I suppose we ought to do it," said
Miss Laura, at last; "but how can we give him up?"

There was a good deal of discussion, but the end of it was that Billy was given to the Italian.
He came up to get him, and was very grateful, and made a great many bows, holding his hat in
his hand. Billy took to him at once, and the Italian spoke so kindly to him, that we knew he
would have a good master. Mr. Morris got quite a large sum of money for him, and when he handed
it to him, the poor man was so pleased that he kissed his hand, and promised to send frequent
word as to Billy's progress and welfare.

CHAPTER XXXVI DANDY THE TRAMP

ABOUT a week after Billy left us, the Morris family, much to its surprise, became the owner
of a new dog.

He walked into the house one cold, wintry afternoon and lay calmly down by the fire. He was
a brindled bull-terrier, and he had on a silver-plated collar with "Dandy" engraved on it.
He lay all the evening by the fire, and when any of the family spoke to him, he wagged his
tail, and looked pleased. I growled a little at him at first, but he never cared a bit, and
just dozed off to sleep, so I soon stopped.

He was such a well-bred dog, that the Morrises were afraid that some one had lost him. They
made some inquiries the next day, and found that he belonged to a New York gentleman who had
come to Fairport in the summer in a yacht. This dog did not like the yacht. He came ashore
in a boat whenever he got a chance, and if he could not come in a boat, he would swim. He was
a tramp, his master said, and he wouldn't stay long in any place. The Morrises were so amused
with his impudence, that they did not send him away, but said every day, "Surely he will be
gone to-morrow."

However, Mr. Dandy had gotten into comfortable quarters, and he had no intention of changing
them, for a while at least. Then he was very handsome, and had such a pleasant way with him,
that the family could not help liking him. I never cared for him. He fawned on the Morrises,
and pretended he loved them, and afterward turned around and laughed and sneered at them in
a way that made me very angry. I used to lecture him sometimes, and growl about him to Jim,
but Jim always said, "Let him alone. You can't do him any good. He was born bad. His mother
wasn't good. He tells me that she had a bad name among all the dogs in her neighborhood. She
was a thief and a runaway." Though he provoked me so often, yet I could not help laughing at
some of his stories, they were so funny.

We were lying out in the sun, on the platform at the back of the house, one day, and he had
been more than usually provoking, so I got up to leave him. He put himself in my way, however,
and said, coaxingly, "Don't be cross, old fellow. I'll tell you some stories to amuse you,
old boy. What shall they be about?"

"I think the story of your life would be about as interesting as anything you could make up,"
I said, dryly.

"All right, fact or fiction, whichever you like. Here's a fact, plain and unvarnished. Born
and bred in New York. Swell stable. Swell coachman. Swell master. Jewelled fingers of ladies
poking at me, first thing I remember. First painful experience being sent to vet. to have ears
cut."

"What's a vet.?" I said.

"A veterinary animal doctor. Vet. didn't cut ears enough. Master sent me back. Cut ears again.
Summer time, and flies bad. Ears got sore and festered, flies very attentive. Coachman set
little boy to brush flies off, but he'd run out in yard and leave me. Flies awful. Thought
they'd eat me up, or else I'd shake out brains trying to get rid of them. Mother should have
stayed home and licked my ears, but was cruising about neighborhood. Finally coachman put me
in dark place; powdered ears, and they got well."

"Why didn't they cut your tail, too?" I said, looking at his long, slim tail, which was like
a sewer rat's.

"'Twasn't the fashion, Mr. Wayback; a bull-terrier's ears are clipped to keep them from getting
torn while fighting."

"You're not a fighting dog," I said.

"Not I. Too much trouble. I believe in taking things easy."

"I should think you did," I said, scornfully. "You never put yourself out for any one, I notice;
but, speaking of cropping ears, what do you think of it?"

"Well," he said, with a sly glance at my head, "it isn't a pleasant operation; but one might
well be out of the world as out of the fashion. I don't care, now my ears are done."

"But," I said, "think of the poor dogs that will come after you."

"What difference does that make to me?" he said. "I'll be dead and out of the way. Men can
cut off their ears, and tails, and legs, too, if they want to."

"Dandy," I said, angrily, "you're the most selfish dog that I ever saw."

"Don't excite yourself," he said, coolly. "Let me get on with my story. When I was a few months
old, I began to find the stable yard narrow and wondered what there was outside of it. I discovered
a hole in the garden wall, and used to sneak out nights. Oh, what fun it was. I got to know
a lot of street dogs, and we had gay times, barking under people's windows and making them
mad, and getting into back yards and chasing cats. We used to kill a cat nearly every night.
Policeman would chase us, and we would run and run till the water just ran off our tongues,
and we hadn't a bit of breath left. Then I'd go home and sleep all day, and go out again the
next night. When I was about a year old, I began to stay out days as well as nights. They couldn't
keep me home. Then I ran away for three months. I got with an old lady on Fifth Avenue, who
was very fond of dogs. She had four white poodles, and her servants used to wash them, and
tie up their hair with blue ribbons, and she used to take them for drives in her phaeton in
the park, and they wore gold and silver collars. The biggest poodle wore a ruby in his collar
worth five hundred dollars. I went driving, too, and sometimes we met my master. He often smiled,
and shook his head at me. I heard him tell the coachman one day that I was a little blackguard,
and he was to let me come and go as I liked."

"If they had whipped you soundly," I said, "it might have made a good dog of you."

"I'm good enough now," said Dandy, airily. "The young ladies who drove with my master used
to say that it was priggish and tiresome to be too good. To go on with my story: I stayed with
Mrs. Judge Tibbett till I got sick of her fussy ways She made a simpleton of herself over those
poodles. Each one had a high chair at the table, and a plate, and they always sat in these
chairs and had meals with her, and the servants all called them Master Bijou, and Master Tot,
and Miss Tiny, and Miss Fluff. One day they tried to make me sit in a chair, and I got cross
and bit Mrs. Tibbett, and she beat me cruelly, and her servants stoned me away from the house."

"Speaking about fools, Dandy," I said, "if it is polite to call a lady one, I should say that
that lady was one. Dogs shouldn't be put out of their place. Why didn't she have some poor
children at her table, and in her carriage, and let the dogs run behind?"

"Easy to see you don't know New York," said Dandy, with a laugh. "Poor children don't live
with rich, old ladies. Mrs. Tibbett hated children, anyway. Then dogs like poodles would get
lost in the mud, or killed in the crowd if they ran behind a carriage. Only knowing dogs like
me can make their way about." I rather doubted this speech; but I said nothing, and he went
on patronizingly: "However, Joe, thou hast reason, as the French say. Mrs. Judge Tibbett didn't
give her dogs exercise enough. Their claws were as long as Chinamen's nails, and the hair grew
over their pads, and they had red eyes and were always sick, and she had to dose them with
medicine, and call them her poor, little, 'weeny-teeny sicky-wicky doggies.' Bah! I got disgusted
with her. When I left her, I ran away to her niece's, Miss Ball's. She was a sensible young
lady, and she used to scold her aunt for the way in which she brought up her dogs. She was
almost too sensible, for her pug and I were rubbed and scrubbed within an inch of our lives,
and had to go for such long walks that I got thoroughly sick of them. A woman, whom the servants
called Trotsey, came every morning, and took the pug and me by our chains, and sometimes another
dog or two, and took us for long tramps in quiet streets. That was Trotsey's business, to walk
dogs, and Miss Ball got a great many fashionable young ladies who could not exercise their
dogs, to let Trotsey have them, and they said that it made a great difference in the health
and appearance of their pets. Trotsey got fifteen cents an hour for a dog. Goodness, what appetites
those walks gave us, and didn't we make the dog biscuits disappear? But it was a slow life
at Miss Ball's. We only saw her for a little while every day. She slept till noon. After lunch
she played with us for a little while in the greenhouse, then she was off driving or visiting,
and in the evening she always had company, or went to a dance, or to the theatre. I soon made
up my mind that I'd run away. I jumped out of a window one fine morning, and ran home. I stayed
there for a long time. My mother had been run over by a cart and killed, and I wasn't sorry.
My master never bothered his head about me, and I could do as I liked. One day when I was having
a walk, and meeting a lot of dogs that I knew, a little boy came behind me, and before I could
tell what he was doing, he had snatched me up, and was running off with me. I couldn't bite
him, for he had stuffed some of his rags in my mouth. He took me to a tenement house, in a
part of the city that I had never been in before. He belonged to a very poor family. My faith,
weren't they badly off six children, and a mother, and father, all living in two tiny rooms.
Scarcely a bit of meat did I smell while I was there. I hated their bread and molasses, and
the place smelled so badly that I thought I should choke.

"They kept me shut up in their dirty rooms for several days; and the brat of a boy that caught
me slept with his arm around me at night. The weather was hot and sometimes we couldn't sleep,
and they had to go up on the roof. After a while, they chained me up in a filthy yard at the
back of the house, and there I thought I should go mad. I would have liked to bite them all
to death, if I had dared. It's awful to be chained, especially for a dog like me that loves
his freedom. The flies worried me, and the noises distracted me, and my flesh would fairly
creep from getting no exercise. I was there nearly a month, while they were waiting for a reward
to be offered. But none came; and one day, the boy's father, who was a street peddler, took
me by my chain and led me about the streets till he sold me. A gentleman got me for his little
boy, but I didn't like the look of him, so I sprang up and bit his hand, and he dropped the
chain, and I dodged boys and policemen and finally got home more dead than alive, and looking
like a skeleton. I had a good time for several weeks, and then I began to get restless and
was off again. But I'm getting tired; I want to go to sleep."

"You're not very polite," I said, "to offer to tell a story, and then go to sleep before you
finish it."

"Look out for number one, my boy," said Dandy, with a yawn; "for if you don't, no one else
will," and he shut his eyes and was fast asleep in a few minutes.

I sat and looked at him. What a handsome, good-natured, worthless dog he was. A few days later,
he told me the rest of his history. After a great many wanderings, he happened home one day
just as his master's yacht was going to sail, and they chained him up till they went on board,
so that he could be an amusement on the passage to Fairport.

It was in November that Dandy came to us, and he stayed all winter. He made fun of the Morrises
all the time, and said they had a dull, poky, old house, and he only stayed because Miss Laura
was nursing him. He had a little sore on his back that she soon found out was mange. Her father
said it was a bad disease for dogs to have, and Dandy had better be shot; but she begged so
hard for his life, and said she would cure him in a few weeks that she was allowed to keep
him. Dandy wasn't capable of getting really angry, but he was as disturbed about having this
disease as he could be about anything. He said that he had got it from a little, mangy dog,
that he had played with a few weeks before. He was only with the dog a little while, and didn't
think he would take it, but it seemed he knew what an easy thing it was to get.

Until he got well he was separated from us. Miss Laura kept him up in the loft with the rabbits,
where we could not go; and the boys ran him around the garden for exercise. She tried all kinds
of cures for him, and I heard her say that although it was a skin disease, his blood must be
purified. She gave him some of the pills that she made out of sulphur and butter for Jim, and
Billy, and me, to keep our coats silky and smooth. When they didn't cure him, she gave him
a few drops of arsenic every day, and washed the sore, and, indeed his whole body, with tobacco
water or carbolic soap. It was the tobacco water that cured him.

Miss Laura always put on gloves when she went near him, and used a brush to wash him, for if
a person takes mange from a dog, they may lose their hair and their eyelashes. But if they
are careful, no harm comes from nursing a mangy dog, and I have never known of any one taking
the disease.

After a time, Dandy's sore healed, and he was set free. He was right glad, he said, for he
had got heartily sick of the rabbits. He used to bark at them and make them angry, and they
would run around the loft, stamping their hind feet at him, in the funny way that rabbits do.
I think they disliked him as much as he disliked them. Jim and I did not get the mange. Dandy
was not a strong dog, and I think his irregular way of living made him take diseases readily.
He would stuff himself when he was hungry, and he always wanted rich food. If he couldn't get
what he wanted at the Morrises', he went out and stole, or visited the dumps at the back of
the town.

When he did get ill, he was more stupid about doctoring himself than any dog that I have ever
seen. He never seemed to know when to eat grass or herbs, or a little earth, that would have
kept him in good condition. A dog should never be without grass. When Dandy got ill he just
suffered till he got well again, and never tried to cure himself of his small troubles. Some
dogs even know enough to amputate their limbs. Jim told me a very interesting story of a dog
the Morrises once had, called Gyp, whose leg became paralyzed by a kick from a horse. He knew
the leg was dead, and gnawed it off nearly to the shoulder, and though he was very sick for
a time, yet in the end he got well.

To return to Dandy. I knew he was only waiting for the spring to leave us, and I was not sorry.
The first fine day he was off, and during the rest of the spring and summer we occasionally
met him running about the town with a set of fast dogs. One day I stopped and asked him how
he concealed himself in such a quiet place as Fairport, and he said he was dying to get back
to New York, and was hoping that his master's yacht would come and take him away.

Poor Dandy never left Fairport. After all, he was not such a bad dog. There was nothing really
vicious about him, and I hate to speak of his end. His master's yacht did not come, and soon
the summer was over, and the winter was coming, and no one wanted Dandy, for he had such a
bad name. He got hungry and cold, and one day sprang upon a little girl, to take away a piece
of bread and butter that she was eating. He did not see the large house-dog on the door sill,
and before he could get away, the dog had seized him, and bitten and shaken him till he was
nearly dead. When the dog threw him aside, he crawled to the Morrises, and Miss Laura bandaged
his wounds, and made him a bed in the stable.

One Sunday morning she washed and fed him very tenderly, for she knew he could not live much
longer. He was so weak that he could scarcely eat the food that she put in his mouth, so she
let him lick some milk from her finger. As she was going to church, I could not go with her,
but I ran down the lane and watched her out of sight. When I came back, Dandy was gone. I looked
till I found him. He had crawled into the darkest corner of the stable to die, and though he
was suffering very much, he never uttered a sound. I sat by him and thought of his master in
New York. If he had brought Dandy up properly he might not now be here in his silent death
agony. A young pup should be trained just as a child is, and punished when he goes wrong. Dandy
began badly, and not being checked in his evil ways, had come so this. Poor Dandy! Poor, handsome
dog of a rich master! He opened his dull eyes, gave me one last glance, then, with a convulsive
shudder, his torn limbs were still. He would never suffer any more.

When Miss Laura came home, she cried bitterly to know that he was dead. The boys took him away
from her, and made him a grave in the corner of the garden.

CHAPTER XXXVII THE END OF MY STORY

I HAVE come now to the last chapter of my story. I thought when I began to write, that I would
put down the events of each year of my life, but I fear that would make my story too long,
and neither Miss Laura nor any boys and girls would care to read it. So I will stop just here,
though I would gladly go on, for I have enjoyed so much talking over old times, that I am very
sorry to leave off.

Every year that I have been at the Morrises', something pleasant has happened to me, but I
cannot put all these things down, nor can I tell how Miss Laura and the boys grew and changed,
year by year, till now they are quite grown up. I will just bring my tale down to the present
time, and then I will stop talking, and go lie down in my basket, for I am an old dog now,
and get tired very easily.

I was a year old when I went to the Morrises, and I have been with them for twelve years. I
am not living in the same house with Mr. and Mrs. Morris now, but I am with my dear Miss Laura,
who is Miss Laura no longer, but Mrs. Gray. She married Mr. Harry four years ago, and lives
with him and Mr. and Mrs. Wood, on Dingley Farm. Mr. and Mrs. Morris live in a cottage near
by. Mr. Morris is not very strong, and can preach no longer. The boys are all scattered. Jack
married pretty Miss Bessie Drury, and lives on a large farm near here. Miss Bessie says that
she hates to be a farmer's wife, but she always looks very happy and contented, so I think
that she must be mistaken. Carl is a merchant in New York, Ned is a clerk in a bank, and Willie
is studying at a place called Harvard. He says that after he finishes his studies, he is going
to live with his father and mother.

The Morrises' old friends often come to see them. Mrs. Drury comes every summer on her way
to Newport, and Mr. Montague and Charlie come every other summer. Charlie always brings with
him his old dog Brisk, who is getting feeble, like myself. We lie on the veranda in the sunshine,
and listen to the Morrises talking about old days, and sometimes it makes us feel quite young
again. In addition to Brisk we have a Scotch collie. He is very handsome, and is a constant
attendant of Miss Laura's. We are great friends, he and I, but he can get about much better
than I can. One day a friend of Miss Laura's came with a little boy and girl, and "Collie"
sat between the two children, and their father took their picture with a "kodak." I like him
so much that I told him I would get them to put his picture in my book.

When the Morris boys are all here in the summer we have gay times. All through the winter we
look forward to their coming, for they make the old farmhouse so lively. Mr. Maxwell never
misses a summer in coming to Riverdale. He has such a following of dumb animals now, that he
says he can't move them any farther away from Boston than this, and he doesn't know what he
will do with them, unless he sets up a menagerie. He asked Miss Laura the other day, if she
thought that the old Italian would take him into partnership. He did not know what had happened
to poor Bellini, so Miss Laura told him.

A few years ago the Italian came to Riverdale, to exhibit his new stock of performing animals.
They were almost as good as the old ones, but he had not quite so many as he had before. The
Morrises and a great many of their friends went to his performance, and Miss Laura said afterward,
that when cunning little Billy came on the stage, and made his bow, and went through his antics
of jumping through hoops, and catching balls, that she almost had hysterics. The Italian had
made a special pet of him for the Morrises' sake, and treated him more like a human being than
a dog. Billy rather put on airs when he came up to the farm to see us, but he was such a dear,
little dog, in spite of being almost spoiled by his master, that Jim and I could not get angry
with him. In a few days they went away, and we heard nothing but good news from them, till
last winter. Then a letter came to Miss Laura from a nurse in a New York hospital. She said
that the Italian was very near his end, and he wanted her to write to Mrs. Gray to tell her
that he had sold all his animals but the little dog that she had so kindly given him. He was
sending him back to her, and with his latest breath he would pray for heaven's blessing on
the kind lady and her family that had befriended him when he was in trouble.

The next day Billy arrived, a thin, white scarecrow of a dog. He was sick and unhappy, and
would eat nothing, and started up at the slightest sound. He was listening for the Italian's
footsteps, but he never came, and one day Mr. Harry looked up from his newspaper and said,
"Laura, Bellini is dead." Miss Laura's eyes filled with tears, and Billy, who had jumped up
when he heard his master's name, fell back again. He knew what they meant, and from that instant
he ceased listening for footsteps, and lay quite still till he died. Miss Laura had him put
in a little wooden box, and buried him in a corner of the garden, and when she is working among
her flowers, she often speaks regretfully of him, and of poor Dandy, who lies in the garden
at Fairport.

Bella, the parrot, lives with Mrs. Morris, and is as smart as ever. I have heard that parrots
live to a very great age. Some of them even get to be a hundred years old. If that is the case,
Bella will outlive all of us. She notices that I am getting blind and feeble, and when I go
down to call on Mrs. Morris, she calls out to me, "Keep a stiff upper lip, Beautiful Joe. Never
say die, Beautiful Joe. Keep the game a-going, Beautiful Joe."

Mrs. Morris says that she doesn't know where Bella picks up her slang words. I think it is
Mr. Ned who teaches her, for when he comes home in the summer he often says, with a sly twinkle
in his eye, "Come out into the garden, Bella," and he lies in a hammock under the trees, and
Bella perches on a branch near him, and he talks to her by the hour. Anyway, it is in the autumn
after he leaves Riverdale that Bella always shocks Mrs. Morris with her slang talk.

I am glad that I am to end my days in Riverdale. Fairport was a very nice place, but it was
not open and free like this farm. I take a walk every morning that the sun shines. I go out
among the horses and cows, and stop to watch the hens pecking at their food. This is a happy
place, and I hope my dear Miss Laura will live to enjoy it many years after I am gone.

I have very few worries. The pigs bother me a little in the spring, by rooting up the bones
that I bury in the fields in the fall, but that is a small matter, and I try not to mind it.
I get a great many bones here, and I should be glad if I had some poor, city dogs to help me
eat them. I don't think bones are good for pigs.

Then there is Mr. Harry's tame squirrel out in one of the barns that teases me considerably.
He knows that I can't chase him, now that my legs are so stiff with rheumatism, and he takes
delight in showing me how spry he can be, darting around me and whisking his tail almost in
my face, and trying to get me to run after him, so that he can laugh at me. I don't think that
he is a very thoughtful squirrel, but I try not to notice him.

The sailor boy who gave Bella to the Morrises has got to be a large, stout man, and is the
first mate of a vessel. He sometimes comes here, and when he does, he always brings the Morrises
presents of foreign fruits and curiosities of different kinds.

Malta, the cat, is still living, and is with Mrs. Morris. Davy, the rat, is gone, so is poor
old Jim. He went away one day last summer, and no one ever knew what became of him. The Morrises
searched everywhere for him, and offered a large reward to any one who would find him but he
never turned up again. I think that he felt he was going to die, and went into some out-of-the-way
place. He remembered how badly Miss Laura felt when Dandy died, and he wanted to spare her
the greater sorrow of his death. He was always such a thoughtful dog, and so anxious not to
give trouble. I am more selfish. I could not go away from Miss Laura even to die. When my last
hour comes, I want to see her gentle face bending over me, and then I shall not mind how much
I suffer.

She is just as tender-hearted as ever, but she tries not to feel too badly about the sorrow
and suffering in the world, because she says that would weaken her, and she wants all her strength
to try to put a stop to some of it. She does a great deal of good in Riverdale, and I do not
think that there is any one in all the country around who is as much beloved as she is.

She has never forgotten the resolve that she made some years ago, that she would do all that
she could to protect dumb creatures. Mr. Harry and Mr. Maxwell have helped her nobly. Mr. Maxwell's
work is largely done in Boston, and Miss Laura and Mr. Harry have to do the most of theirs
by writing, for Riverdale has got to be a model village in respect of the treatment of all
kinds of animals. It is a model village not only in that respect, but in others. It has seemed
as if all other improvements went hand in hand with the humane treatment of animals. Thoughtfulness
toward lower creatures has made the people more and more thoughtful toward themselves, and
this little town is getting to have quite a name through the State for its good schools, good
society, and good business and religious standing. Many people are moving into it, to educate
their children.. The Riverdale people are very particular about what sort of strangers come
to live among them.

A man, who came here two years ago and opened a shop, was seen kicking a small kitten out of
his house. The next day a committee of Riverdale citizens waited on him, and said they had
had a great deal of trouble to root out cruelty from their village, and they didn't want any
one to come there and introduce it again, and they thought he had better move on to some other
place. The man was utterly astonished, and said he'd never heard of such particular people.
He had had no thought of being cruel. He didn't think that the kitten cared; but now when he
turned the thing over in his mind, he didn't suppose cats liked being kicked about any more
than he would like it himself, and he would promise to be kind to them in future. He said,
too, that if they had no objection, he would just stay on, for if the people there treated
dumb animals with such consideration, they would certainly treat human beings better, and he
thought it would be a good place to bring up his children in. Of course they let him stay,
and he is now a man who is celebrated for his kindness to every living thing; and he never
refuses to help Miss Laura when she goes to him for money to carry out any of her humane schemes.

There is one most important saying of Miss Laura's that comes out of her years of service for
dumb animals that I must put in before I close and it is this. She says that cruel and vicious
owners of animals should be punished, but to merely thoughtless people, don't say "Don't" so
much. Don't go to them and say, "Don't overfeed your animals, and don't starve them and don't
overwork them, and don't beat them," and so on through the long list of hardships that can
be put upon suffering animals, but say simply to them, "Be kind. Make a study of your animals'
wants, and see that they are satisfied. No one can tell you how to treat your animal as well
as you should know yourself, for you are with it all the time, and know its disposition, and
just how much work it can stand, and how much rest and food it needs, and just how it is different
from every other animal. If it is sick or unhappy, you are the one to take care of it; for
nearly every animal loves its own master better than a stranger, and will get well quicker
under his care."

Miss Laura says that if men and women are kind in every respect to their dumb servants, they
will be astonished to find how much happiness they will bring into their lives, and how faithful
and grateful their dumb animals will be to them.

Now, I must really close my story. Good-bye to the boys and girls who may read it; and if it
is not wrong for a dog to say it, I should like to add, "God bless you all." If in my feeble
way I have been able to impress you with the fact that dogs and many other animals love their
masters and mistresses, and live only to please them, my little story will not be written in
vain. My last words are, "Boys and girls, be kind to dumb animals, not only because you will
lose nothing by it, but because you ought to; for they were placed on the earth by the same
Kind Hand that made all living creatures."