"Not that it can make any difference, I suppose," Mrs. Lidcote continued. "But did Leila tell
them I was coming?"

Miss Suffern looked at her with pain. "Why, you don't suppose, dearest, that Leila would do
anything--"

Mrs. Lidcote went on: "For, of course, it's of the first importance, as you say, that Mrs.
Lorin Boulger should be favorably impressed, in order that Wilbour may have the best possible
chance of getting Borne."

"I told Leila you'd feel that, dear. You see, it's actually on your account--so that they may
get a post near you--that Leila invited Mrs. Boulger."

"Yes, I see that." Mrs. Lidcote, abruptly rising from her seat, turned her eyes to the clock.
"But, as you say, it's getting late. Oughtn't we to dress for dinner?"

Miss Suffern, at the suggestion, stood up also, an agitated hand among her bugles. "I do wish
I could persuade you to stay up here this evening. I'm sure Leila'd be happier if you would.
Really, you're much too tired to come down."

"What nonsense, Susy!" Mrs. Lidcote spoke with a sudden sharpness, her hand stretched to the
bell. "When do we dine? At half-past eight? Then I must really send you packing. At my age
it takes time to dress."

Miss Suffern, thus projected toward the threshold, lingered there to repeat: "Leila'll never
forgive herself if you make an effort you're not up to." But Mrs. Lidcote smiled on her without
answering, and the icy lightwave propelled her through the door.

V

Mrs. Lidcote, though she had made the gesture of ringing for her maid, had not done so.

When the door closed, she continued to stand motionless in the middle of her soft spacious
room. The fire which had been kindled at twilight danced on the brightness of silver and mirrors
and sober gilding; and the sofa toward which she had been urged by Miss Suffern heaped up its
cushions in inviting proximity to a table laden with new books and papers. She could not recall
having ever been more luxuriously housed, or having ever had so strange a sense of being out
alone, under the night, in a windbeaten plain. She sat down by the fire and thought.

A knock on the door made her lift her head, and she saw her daughter on the threshold. The
intricate ordering of Leila's fair hair and the flying folds of her dressinggown showed that
she had interrupted her dressing to hasten to her mother; but once in the room she paused a
moment, smiling uncertainly, as though she had forgotten the object of her haste.

Mrs. Lidcote rose to her feet. "Time to dress, dearest? Don't scold! I shan't be late."

"To dress?" Leila stood before her with a puzzled look. "Why, I thought, dear--I mean, I hoped
you'd decided just to stay here quietly and rest."

Her mother smiled. "But I've been resting all the afternoon!"

"Yes, but--you know you do look tired. And when Susy told me just now that you meant to make
the effort--"

"You came to stop me?"

"I came to tell you that you needn't feel in the least obliged--"

"Of course. I understand that."

There was a pause during which Leila, vaguely averting herself from her mother's scrutiny,
drifted toward the dressing-table and began to disturb the symmetry of the brushes and bottles
laid out on it.

"Do your visitors know that I'm here?" Mrs. Lidcote suddenly went on.

"Do they--Of course--why, naturally," Leila rejoined, absorbed in trying to turn the stopper
of a salts-bottle.

"Then won't they think it odd if I don't appear?"

"Oh, not in the least, dearest. I assure you they'll all understand." Leila laid down the bottle
and turned back to her mother, her face alight with reassurance.

Mrs. Lidcote stood motionless, her head erect, her smiling eyes on her daughter's. "Will they
think it odd if I do?"

Leila stopped short, her lips half parted to reply. As she paused, the colour stole over her
bare neck, swept up to her throat, and burst into flame in her cheeks. Thence it sent its devastating
crimson up to her very temples, to the lobes of her ears, to the edges of her eyelids, beating
all over her in fiery waves, as if fanned by some imperceptible wind.

Mrs. Lidcote silently watched the conflagration; then she turned away her eyes with a slight
laugh. "I only meant that I was afraid it might upset the arrangement of your dinner-table
if I didn't come down. If you can assure me that it won't, I believe I'll take you at your
word and go back to this irresistible sofa." She paused, as if waiting for her daughter to
speak; then she held out her arms. "Run off and dress, dearest; and don't have me on your mind."
She clasped Leila close, pressing a long kiss on the last afterglow of her subsiding blush.
"I do feel the least bit overdone, and if it won't inconvenience you to have me drop out of
things, I believe I'll basely take to my bed and stay there till your party scatters. And now
run off, or you'll be late; and make my excuses to them all."

VI

The Barkleys' visitors had dispersed, and Mrs. Lidcote, completely restored by her two days'
rest, found herself, on the following Monday alone with her children and Miss Suffern.

There was a note of jubilation in the air, for the party had "gone off" so extraordinarily
well, and so completely, as it appeared, to the satisfaction of Mrs. Lorin Boulger, that Wilbour's
early appointment to Rome was almost to be counted on. So certain did this seem that the prospect
of a prompt reunion mitigated the distress with which Leila learned of her mother's decision
to return almost immediately to Italy. No one understood this decision; it seemed to Leila
absolutely unintelligible that Mrs. Lidcote should not stay on with them till their own fate
was fixed, and Wilbour echoed her astonishment.

"Why shouldn't you, as Leila says, wait here till we can all pack up and go together?"

Mrs. Lidcote smiled her gratitude with her refusal. "After all, it's not yet sure that you'll
be packing up."

"Oh, you ought to have seen Wilbour with Mrs. Boulger," Leila triumphed.

"No, you ought to have seen Leila with her," Leila's husband exulted.

Miss Suffern enthusiastically appended: "I do think inviting Harriet Fresbie was a stroke of
genius!"

"Oh, we'll be with you soon," Leila laughed. "So soon that it's really foolish to separate."

But Mrs. Lidcote held out with the quiet firmness which her daughter knew it was useless to
oppose. After her long months in India, it was really imperative, she declared, that she should
get back to Florence and see what was happening to her little place there; and she had been
so comfortable on the Utopia that she had a fancy to return by the same ship. There was nothing
for it, therefore, but to acquiesce in her decision and keep her with them till the afternoon
before the day of the Utopia's sailing. This arrangement fitted in with certain projects which,
during her two days' seclusion, Mrs. Lidcote had silently matured. It had become to her of
the first importance to get away as soon as she could, and the little place in Florence, which
held her past in every fold of its curtains and between every page of its books, seemed now
to her the one spot where that past would be endurable to look upon.

She was not unhappy during the intervening days. The sight of Leila's well-being, the sense
of Leila's tenderness, were, after all, what she had come for; and of these she had had full
measure. Leila had never been happier or more tender; and the contemplation of her bliss, and
the enjoyment of her affection, were an absorbing occupation for her mother. The card he would even
receive would give the location of the tract and the recipient would proceed her to have the land
surveyed at his pleasure. Within three months after the survey had been made he was to appear
at any office and have the a right.

Same copy of this record was to be taken to the assistant register of the ground countinghouse
in Kentucky and there it was to remain six months in order to give prior
colonist, if the, the approximate to prove their claims to the property.
 She wanted no viaticum but that of her own thoughts; and she let these come to her
without shrinking from them as she sat in the same high-hung sitting-room in which, just a
week before, she and Franklin Ide had had their memorable talk.

She had promised her friend to let him hear from her, but she had not kept her promise. She
knew that he had probably come back from Chicago, and that if he learned of her sudden decision
to return to Italy it would be impossible for her not to see him before sailing; and as she
wished above all things not to see him she had kept silent, intending to send him a letter
from the steamer.

There was no reason why she should wait till then to write it. The actual moment was more favorable,
and the task, though not agreeable, would at least bridge over an hour of her lonely evening.
She went up to the writing-table, drew out a sheet of paper and began to write his name. And
as she did so, the door opened and he came in.

The words she met him with were the last she could have imagined herself saying when they had
parted. "How in the world did you know that I was here?"

He caught her meaning in a flash. "You didn't want me to, then?" He stood looking at her. "I
suppose I ought to have taken your silence as meaning that. But I happened to meet Mrs. Wynn,
who is stopping here, and she asked me to dine with her and Charlotte, and Charlotte's young
man. They told me they'd seen you arriving this afternoon, and I couldn't help coming up."

There was a pause between them, which Mrs. Lidcote at last surprisingly broke with the exclamation:
"Ah, she did recognize me, then!"

"Recognize you?" He stared. "Why--"

"Oh, I saw she did, though she never moved an eyelid. I saw it by Charlotte's blush. The child
has the prettiest blush. I saw that her mother wouldn't let her speak to me."

Ide put down his hat with an impatient laugh. "Hasn't Leila cured you of your delusions?"

She looked at him intently. "Then you don't think Margaret Wynn meant to cut me?"

"I think your ideas are absurd."

She paused for a perceptible moment without taking this up; then she said, at a tangent: "I'm
sailing tomorrow early. I meant to write to you--there's the letter I'd begun."

Ide followed her gesture, and then turned his eyes back to her face. "You didn't mean to see
me, then, or even to let me know that you were going till you'd left?"

"I felt it would be easier to explain to you in a letter--"

"What in God's name is there to explain?" She made no reply, and he pressed on: "It can't be
that you're worried about Leila, for Charlotte Wynn told me she'd been there last week, and
there was a big party arriving when she left: Fresbies and Gileses, and Mrs. Lorin Boulger--all
the board of examiners! If Leila has passed that, she's got her degree."

Mrs. Lidcote had dropped down into a corner of the sofa where she had sat during their talk
of the week before. "I was stupid," she began abruptly. "I ought to have gone to Ridgefield
with Susy. I didn't see till afterward that I was expected to."

"You were expected to?"

"Yes. Oh, it wasn't Leila's fault. She suffered--poor darling; she was distracted. But she'd
asked her party before she knew I was arriving."

"Oh, as to that--" Ide drew a deep breath of relief. "I can understand that it must have been
a disappointment not to have you to herself just at first. But, after all, you were among old
friends or their children: the Gileses and Fresbies--and little Charlotte Wynn." He paused
a moment before the last name, and scrutinized her hesitatingly. "Even if they came at the
wrong time, you must have been glad to see them all at Leila's."

She gave him back his look with a faint smile. "I didn't see them."

"You didn't see them?"

