Faint amorist, what, dost thou think To taste Love's honey, and not drink One dram of gall?
or to devour A world of sweet, and taste no sour? Dost thou ever think to enter Th' Elysian
fields, that dar'st not venture In Charon's barge? a lover's mind Must use to sail with every
wind. He that loves and fears to try, Learns his mistress to deny. Doth she chide thee? 'tis
to show it, That thy coldness makes her do it: Is she silent? is she mute? Silence fully grants
thy suit: Doth she pout, and leave the room? Then she goes to bid thee come: Is she sick? why
then be sure, She invites thee to the cure: Doth she cross thy suit with "No?" Tush, she loves
to hear thee woo: Doth she call the faith of man In question?  Nay, she loves thee than; And
if e'er she makes a blot, She's lost if that thou hit'st her not. He that after ten denials,
Dares attempt no farther trials, Hath no warrant to acquire The dainties of his chaste desire.

POEM:  SONNETS

Since shunning pain, I ease can never find; Since bashful dread seeks where he knows me harmed;
Since will is won, and stopped ears are charmed; Since force doth faint, and sight doth make
me blind; Since loosing long, the faster still I bind; Since naked sense can conquer reason
armed; Since heart, in chilling fear, with ice is warmed; In fine, since strife of thought
but mars the mind, I yield, O Love, unto thy loathed yoke, Yet craving law of arms, whose rule
doth teach, That, hardly used, who ever prison broke, In justice quit, of honour made no breach:
Whereas, if I a grateful guardian have, Thou art my lord, and I thy vowed slave.

When Love puffed up with rage of high disdain, Resolved to make me pattern of his might, Like
foe, whose wits inclined to deadly spite, Would often kill, to breed more feeling pain; He
would not, armed with beauty, only reign On those affects which easily yield to sight; But
virtue sets so high, that reason's light, For all his strife can only bondage gain: So that
I live to pay a mortal fee, Dead palsy-sick of all my chiefest parts, Like those whom dreams
make ugly monsters see, And can cry help with naught but groans and starts: Longing to have,
having no wit to wish, To starving minds such is god Cupid's dish.

POEM:  SONG

To the tune of "Non credo gia che piu infelice amante."

The nightingale, as soon as April bringeth Unto her rested sense a perfect waking, While late
bare earth, proud of new clothing, springeth, Sings out her woes, a thorn her song-book making;
And mournfully bewailing, Her throat in tunes expresseth What grief her breast oppresseth,
For Tereus' force on her chaste will prevailing. O Philomela fair!  O take some gladness, That
here is juster cause of plaintful sadness: Thine earth now springs, mine fadeth; Thy thorn
without, my thorn my heart invadeth.

II.

Alas! she hath no other cause of anguish, But Tereus' love, on her by strong hand wroken, Wherein
she suffering, all her spirits languish, Full womanlike, complains her will was broken, But
I, who daily craving, Cannot have to content me, Have more cause to lament me, Since wanting
is more woe than too much having.

POEM:  SONG

To the tune of "Basciami vita mia."

Sleep, baby mine, Desire's nurse, Beauty, singeth; Thy cries, O baby, set mine head on aching:
The babe cries, "'Way, thy love doth keep me waking."

Lully, lully, my babe, Hope cradle bringeth Unto my children alway good rest taking: The babe
cries, "Way, thy love doth keep me waking."

Since, baby mine, from me thy watching springeth, Sleep then a little, pap Content is making;
The babe cries, "Nay, for that abide I waking."

I.

The scourge of life, and death's extreme disgrace; The smoke of hell, the monster called Pain:
Long shamed to be accursed in every place, By them who of his rude resort complain; Like crafty
wretch, by time and travel taught, His ugly evil in others' good to hide; Late harbours in
her face, whom Nature wrought As treasure-house where her best gifts do bide; And so by privilege
of sacred seat, A seat where beauty shines and virtue reigns, He hopes for some small praise,
since she hath great, Within her beams wrapping his cruel stains. Thou warned on state of our fair readers
who may have woe at defend on their rights to mistress, that the
ii days of woe or hath more eyes of chivalry will be very hath unhandsome
in applying to the rules of the tourney. I praised
her eyes, whom never chance doth move; Her breath, which makes a sour answer sweet; Her milken
breasts, the nurse of child-like love; Her legs, O legs! her aye well-stepping feet: Pain heard
her praise, and full of inward fire, (First sealing up my heart as prey of his) He flies to
her, and, boldened with desire, Her face, this age's praise, the thief doth kiss. O Pain! 
I now recant the praise I gave, And swear she is not worthy thee to have.

III.

Thou pain, the only guest of loathed Constraint; The child of Curse, man's weakness foster-child;
Brother to Woe, and father of Complaint: Thou Pain, thou hated Pain, from heaven exiled, How
hold'st thou her whose eyes constraint doth fear, Whom cursed do bless; whose weakness virtues
arm; Who others' woes and plaints can chastely bear: In whose sweet heaven angels of high thoughts
swarm? What courage strange hath caught thy caitiff heart? Fear'st not a face that oft whole
hearts devours? Or art thou from above bid play this part, And so no help 'gainst envy of those
powers? If thus, alas, yet while those parts have woe; So stay her tongue, that she no more
say, "O."

IV.

And have I heard her say, "O cruel pain!" And doth she know what mould her beauty bears? Mourns
she in truth, and thinks that others feign? Fears she to feel, and feels not others' fears?
Or doth she think all pain the mind forbears? That heavy earth, not fiery spirits, may plain?
That eyes weep worse than heart in bloody tears? That sense feels more than what doth sense
contain? No, no, she is too wise, she knows her face Hath not such pain as it makes others
have: She knows the sickness of that perfect place Hath yet such health, as it my life can
save. But this, she thinks, our pain high cause excuseth, Where her, who should rule pain,
false pain abuseth.

* * *

Like as the dove, which seeled up doth fly, Is neither freed, nor yet to service bound; But
hopes to gain some help by mounting high, Till want of force do force her fall to ground: Right
so my mind, caught by his guiding eye, And thence cast off where his sweet hurt he found, Hath
neither leave to live, nor doom to die; Nor held in evil, nor suffered to be sound. But with
his wings of fancies up he goes, To high conceits, whose fruits are oft but small; Till wounded,
blind, and wearied spirit, lose Both force to fly, and knowledge where to fall: O happy dove,
if she no bondage tried! More happy I, might I in bondage bide!

* * *

