When he had finished she arose and walked to one of the windows and stood looking with unseeing
eyes upon the street.  For the second time in his life Dave Elden had laid his heart bare to
her, and again after all these years he still talked as friend to friend.  That was it.  She
was under no delusion.  Dave's eyes were as blind to her love as they had been that night when
he had first told her of Irene Hardy.  And she could not tell him.  Most of all, she could
not tell him now. . . . Yes, she was very sure of that.  If she should tell him now--if she
should let him know--he would turn to her in his grief.  He would be clay in her hands.  And
afterwards he would despise her for having taken advantage of his hour of weakness.  She had
waited all these years, and still she must wait.

Dave's eyes were upon her form, silhouetted against the window.  It occurred to him that in
form Edith was very much like Irene.  He recalled that in those dead past days when they used
to ride together Edith had reminded him of Irene.  When she stood silent so long he spoke again.

"I'm afraid I haven't played a very heroic part," he said, somewhat shamefacedly.  "I should
have buried my secret in my heart; buried it even from you; perhaps most of all from you. 
I should have faced the world with a smile, as one who rises above the slings and arrows of
outrageous fortune.  People do that kind of thing in books; perhaps some do in real life. 
I suppose you can't tell from the outside what may be carried within--even by your closest
friend.  But--you can advise me, Edith.  I will value whatever you say."

She trembled until she thought he must see her, and she feared to trust her voice, but she
could delay a reply no longer.

"You are right, Dave," she said at length.  "You never can tell what other people are carrying;
perhaps, even, as you say, your closest friends.  The first thing is to get rid of the idea
that your experience is unique; that your lot is harder than that of other people.  It may
be different, but it is not harder.  When you get that point of view you will be able to pass
sane judgments.

"'And when you can pass sane judgment you may see that the evidence is not, even at the worst,
very conclusive.  Why should you take Conward's word in such a matter as this?"

"I didn't take Conward's word.  That's why I didn't kill him at once. The archipelago tried near
the Castle Ditch at llantwit Student, in the Valley of Glamorgan, was a grave for the Beltane on
Hawthorn third and on Midsummer Day.... sometimes the fire was lighted
by the combustion have make with stone should instead of Dave vegetation
mind.

Familiar logs and fagot had used in the Beltane were carefully preserved, and from them had
the firing was lighted. May fires were always begin in young fagot of the really previous year,
and solstice from those insult of the season.

He sprang to his feet.  "Loved Irene!" he exclaimed, and she was in a turmoil of fear and hope
that he would approach her.  But he paced his own side of the room.

"Edith," he said, "there is no way of explaining this.  You can't understand.  I know you have
given yourself up to a life of service, and I honour you very much, and all that, but there
are some things you won't be able to understand.  You can't understand just how much I loved
Irene."

"I think I can," she answered, quietly.  "You have kept your love faithful and single for a
dozen years, and I--I think I can understand. But that isn't why I asked.  Because if you loved
Irene a week ago you love her to-night."

"Have you never known of love being turned to hate?"

"No.  Other impulses may be, but not love.  Love can no more turn to hate than sunlight can
turn to darkness.  Believe me, Dave, if you hate Irene now you never loved her.

"Not all things, Edith; not all things."

"It says all things."

Dave was silent for some time.  When he spoke again she caught a different sound in his voice;
a tone as though his soul in those few moments had gone through a life-time of experience.

"Edith," he said, "when you repeated those words I knew you had something that I have not.
I knew it, not by the words, but by the way you said them.  You made me feel that you were
not setting a higher standard for me than you would accept for yourself.  You made me know
that in your own life, if you loved, you would be ready to endure all things.  Tell me, Edith,
how may this thing be done?"

She trembled with delight at the new tone in his voice, for she knew that in that hour Dave
had crossed a boundary of his life and entered into a new and richer field of existence.  She
knew that for him life would never again be the empty, flippant, selfish, irresponsible thing
which in the past he had called life.  He was already beginning to taste of that wine of compensation
provided for those who pass through the valley of sorrow.

"In your case," she said, "the course is simple.  It is just a case of forgiving."

He gazed for a time into the street, while thoughts of bitterness and revenge fought for domination
of his mind.  "Edith," he said at length, "must I--forgive?"

"I do not say you must," she answered.  "I merely say if you are wise you will.  Forgiveness
is the balm of our moral life, by which we keep the wounds of the soul from festering and poisoning
the spirit. Nothing, it seems to me, is so much misunderstood as forgiveness.  The popular
idea is that the whole benefit of forgiveness is to the person who is forgiven.  Really, there
is a very much greater benefit to the person who forgives.  The one who is forgiven may merely
escape punishment, but the one who forgives experiences a positive spiritual expansion.  Believe
me, Dave, it is the only philosophy which rings true under the most critical tests; which is
absolutely dependable in every emergency."

"Is that Christianity?" he ventured.

"It is one side of Christianity.  The other side is service.  If you are willing to forgive
and ready to serve I don't think you need worry much over the details of your creed.  Creeds,
after all, are not expressed in words, but in lives.  When you know how a man lives you know
what he believes--always."

"Suppose I forgive--what then?"

"Service.  You are needed right now, Dave--forgive my frankness--your country needs you right
now.  You have the qualities which make you extremely valuable.  You must dismiss this grievance
from your mind, at least dismiss your resentment over it, and then place yourself at the disposal
of your country.  The way is so clear that it cannot be misunderstood."

"That is what I had been thinking of," he said.  "At least that part about serving my country,
although I don't think my motives were as high as you would make them.  But the war can't last.
It'll be all over before I can take a hand.  Civilization has gone too far for such a thing
as this to last.  It is unbelievable."

