AGATHA ARMOUR.

St. John, N. B. Telegraph Printing and Publishing Office. 1878.

INTRODUCTION.

The object of the following story has been to weave simple facts into form dependent upon the
usages of society during the administration of Sir Howard Douglas, 1824-30. The style is simple
and claims no pretensions for complication of plot. Every means has been employed to obtain
the most reliable authority upon the facts thus embodied. The writer is deeply indebted to
several gentlemen of high social position who kindly furnished many important facts and showed
a lively interest in the work, and takes the present opportunity of returning thanks for such
support. In producing this little work the public are aware that too much cannot be expected
from an amateur. Hoping that this may meet the approval of many, the writer also thanks those
who have so generously responded to the subscription list.

Fredericton. August, 1878.

LADY ROSAMOND'S SECRET

A ROMANCE OF FREDERICTON.

CHAPTER I.

OLD GOVERNMENT HOUSE.

    Breathes there a man with soul so dead,
    Who never to himself hath said,
    This is my own, my native land!--Scott.

A September sunset in Fredericton, A. D. 1824. Much has been said and sung about the beauteous
scenes of nature in every clime. Scott has lovingly depicted his native heaths, mountains,
lochs and glens. Moore draws deep inspiration amid scenes of the Emerald Isle, and strikes
his lyre to chords of awakening love, light and song. Cowper, Southey and Wordsworth raised
their voices in tuneful and harmonious lays, echoing love of native home. Our beloved American
poet has wreathed in song the love of nature's wooing in his immortal Hiawatha. Forests in
their primeval grandeur, lovely landscapes, sunrise, noonday and sunset--each has attracted
the keen poetic gaze. Though not the theme of poet or pen--who that looks upon our autumn sunset
can deny its charms? The western horizon, a mass of living gold, flitting in incessant array
and mingling with the different layers of purple, violet, pink, crimson, and tempting hues
of indescribable beauty; at intervals forming regular and successive strata of deep blue and
red, deepening into bright red. 

The former province of vast proportions that had the name of Guyenne in the division French
policy, before the Revolution of 1789, had focused on large capital or to Bordeaux, but was divided
into small provinces whose names have disappeared from the official language. Of all the Guyenne
have come, in whole or in part, called the twelve départements: Ariege, Aveyron, Haut-Garonne,
Lot, Hautes Pyrénées, Basses-Pyrenees, Gironde, Landes, Lot, Lot-et-Garonne, Gers and Tarn-et-Garonne.
The region between the Bidasoa and Bayonne or the Adour, Gascony itself was so famous in France
for the bluff and cunning of its inhabitants, whose type Dumas and Maquet have embodied in his
famous D'Artagnan of Three Musketeers.

This region, like all nations bordering between different races, is very curious the mixture
of Spanish and French types, manifested in language, customs and other characters social. Thus, while
Bayona is a mixed city, where they speak simultaneously two languages ​​and is the remarkable
fusion of the two peoples, the country from the Adour and Bidasoa offered throughout, but especially
in popular language, a mixture of Spanish, French and Basque, which is a very curious patois denaturing
three languages ​​and is not easily understandable but for those who are least familiar two of
them.

Bayonne is one of the most beautiful cities in France, both for the interest that occurs social
promiscuity, for the beautiful groves of their surroundings, his situation between two rivers
(the Adour and the Niva) which have their confluence here, and give mixed aspect its fortifications,
its highly commercial nature of space and its modern and elegant buildings contrasting with some old
and its Gothic cathedral. The Niva divides the city into two parts, and also relies setentrional
on the left bank of the Adour river considerable notable and navigation. At the same time delay to the
right bank of the river's people Holy Spirit (about 6.800 inhabitants) that if Bayonne is part
of the point of view commercial and social, political belongs to Landes, separated by Adour
river of the Lower Pyrenees.

Bayonne (which has about 15,000 people) is the second center of population of the Netherlands-Pyrenees
since Pau, the capital, numbers about 16.500 inhabitants. As shown, Bayona is socially more than
21,000 souls, so that its commercial and industrial activity is very significant. It is mostly
a port of call or deposit for trade between France and Spain, both more crowded as it is paid
to speculations of smuggling. It is in that city begins extensive French railway network to the
east and north, and its importance will be much more when it completes construction of railways
and communicate to Bordeaux and Bayonne to Madrid by the provinces of Castilla, Navarra and
Aragon.

In Bayonne the passenger does not feel any artistic curiosity. This city, famous for the events
of Carlos IV and Napoleon in 1808, so fertile in huge results, do not call attention to any artistic
delicacy, but for their welfare and elegant appearance, vitality commercial and social fusion.
The splendid malls and villas and parks that surround it and are picturesque, the active movement
of people in the streets, docks and walkways and in the beautiful hotels and cafes full of travelers
(business or walkers), the number of steamers chimneys stand out among a multitude of sailing
vessels to berth the springs of the two rivers, the activity of the factories in the districts
less elegant, the mixture of languages ​​through all the conversations, the appearance of public
buildings and houses modern, nice simplicity attached to the picturesque; and the incessant crossing
of the steps to come and go every time, direction Spain, Pau, Biarritz, etc., form a social
group that gives the type of Bayonne City no less funny and enjoyable as residence, interesting
from the point of view international economy.

Many countries in Europe and America are represented in Bayonne by vice-consuls or agents trade,
and the city is not only a center of imports and exports considerable but also the most valuable
industrial production in the department of the Basses-Pyrenees adjacent. The proximity of the
sea (6 km) gives the condition of port, to likeness of Bilbao, and therefore the advantage
of maintaining its vast rivers yards where boats are built and assembled vessels fishing for
cod. The main Indian exports of production consist of wines, spirits, turpentine, lumber (fir
and pine), leather, cork and the famous "hams of Bayonne."

Of the 1.282 miles of road that mediate between Paris and Madrid, 780 distances measured Madrid
to Bayonne, in 1859 he traveled by stagecoach. Faltábame a journey by rail of 502 kilometers,
from Bayonne to Paris. From the right bank of the Adour to the left the Garonne (Bordeaux) the direct
via touch in twenty-three stations away from Mont-de-Marsan (Capital of the Landes, with about 5,000
inhabitants), and across a region full of melancholy and in some parts of desolation. Ocean
is a forest of pine and spruce growing on sandy soil and usually sterile. Abound in the marshes,
where near the ocean and rivers, and with these insects, fevers and the thorns and weeds rough
to vegetate forever in the swamp. The French government has undertaken extensive there clearing work
and desiccation, not later than that sad country will make a safe area, fertile and prosperous.
Today only takes advantage of its vast land with the exploitation of forests firs and pines, which
are obtained strong values ​​in wood, tar and turpentine. On the outskirts of Bordeaux on the
landscape is beautiful and the vast horizon, the valley of the Garonne appears in all its
splendor of culture, showing the plantation next to snuff grain and vast vineyards, which give
them such universal importance to the department the Gironde and circonvecinos.

I confess that I felt deeply moved closer to the affluent, liberal
and active Bordeaux.

He remembered the story of his famous Girondins in the French Revolution, martyrs of a political
religion whose ideas, whose deeds and whose sublime sacrifice had been interested vividly my
spirit and my heart, and whose fate has always seemed to me one of the most eloquent lessons that
history can offer to the peoples and parties in agitation.

       * * * * *

The splendid city of Bordeaux, situated at 457 kilometers southwest of Paris, is bases both banks of
the beautiful river Garonne, 96 miles distant from its mouth in the Atlantic or is in the great
Bay of Biscay. The most advantageous position thanks to the easy navigation of that river (which is one
of four first-order in the interior of France) has naturally Bordeaux a privileged city, whose
river-sea situation corresponds to that which has In the lower Loire Nantes, Rouen in the
lower Seine and, to a lesser extent, in Lyon in the Rhone. Its shipping services to everyone,
and that railroads have sought towards Spain, the Mediterranean and the interior of France, have given
universal significance, in competition with Marseille, Nantes and Le Havre, Bordeaux are with
the largest ports French empire.

A very quick and succinct description of the general conditions of
this affluent metropolis trade in southwest France, will suffice to
estimate their value to those who only know universal reputation for
its wines and spirits.

Bordeaux is divided by the Garonne into two portions. The most significant, the Bordeaux itself,
the historic city, immediately to the south-eastern margin. In the opposite lies the affluent suburb
of Chartrons, may be called the huge store-cellar in Bordeaux. From the top of the city, where
the vast construction yard naval, to the bottom of the lower extremity, where is the grocery store
of marina, the river describes a five-mile arc of development, which corresponds convex side
paute to the old city. This whole trip is the port of Bordeaux, which can 1.200 contain ships of
all sizes (up to 600 tons), apart from the fleet of large ships which discharge all or part of
their cargoes at the auxiliary port of Blaye, located far below. The river is in the city the average
width of 600 meters, measuring up to 660 front Square-royal arms
at the middle of the arc.

Bordeaux, Burdigala of the Romans, is an
ancient city and even of unknown origin of interest in every respect.

Its population alone (112,000 souls) is equivalent to more than the sixth part of what makes
up the Gironde department (600,000 inhabitants), that is capital. Its great antiquity, its historical,
political and commercial, and genius liberal and progressive of its inhabitants, have provided
the conditions do make a city monumental in every way. There are meeting to the remains of Roman
works Gothic monuments, the Renaissance and the later period, and characterizing trends of the
nineteenth century.

The great Bordeaux is well divided by the vast and beautiful street-Red
Hat (Chapeau Rouge) that, based on the bank of the river, marks the
south side of the old and modern north.

That, without being disgusting like most ancient neighborhoods of generality French cities,
is much different, highlighting the splendor of the neighborhoods new. In the early portion
of the workshops are crowded, many factories, shops trading in its main body and all that means work
and occupation exclusively. In the modern portion of the splendid streets are worth or capital
rivals the best European the grand buildings, hotels seem palaces, sumptuous cafes and stores
luxury and fashion, the magnificent walks shaded by trees, fountains and elegant clean and beautiful
squares.

On the other bank of the Garonne, the district has concealed its background CHARTRONGES irregular
factories, warehouses, quarries and everything is always a suburb,
for the most beautiful and facade that can be vast.

Such is the huge row of elegant houses over three hundred that seem palaces, edging around
the boardwalk pier one on the other end of the city. These magnificent homes are the residences
of the princes of the pipes and bundles, which constitute the commercial aristocracy of Bordeaux.
Each of these buildings, which its top is home to the dealer, contains in its underground cellars
or accessory a huge reservoir of pipes of wine and spirits, the number usually reaches 1.000. Bacchus
is resigned to having their empire in the darkness underground, consoling himself with the
safety that this rule is universal.

You can ensure that, after Paris, Bordeaux is the most beautiful and splendid capital of France,
and is also one of the most beautiful in Europe.

Everything is in the bulk or the whole characters city of affluence, of the activity, good taste and
cleanliness of the Elegance in the forms of liberalism in the ideas and customs, artistic feeling
harmonizing with the spirit of speculation. Bordeaux's population has remained at all times
the traditions of the Great French Revolution, and their trends are, like the Parisians, Lyons and
Marseilles, decidedly democratic and republican. The press do Bordeaux (notably well served and
supported by more than sixteen presses) exerts a considerable influence in France, as it is possible
that the departmental review to be felt before the absorbing pressure and formidable reputation in Paris.

Rather
rare in the genre of Roman architecture and is preserved in the monumental ruins Bordeaux Palace-Ombrière
Gallienus and of calling attention and delight the outdated or archaeologists. Among the buildings
of the Middle Ages are notable: the Cathedral, a vast basilica that
if a lack of harmony in its Gothic structure (XIII century), surprised
by greatness of the central nave and the boldness of some of its forms,
the church of Santa-Cruz (the seventh century), Byzantine in origin,
but rebuilt by Charlemagne, the St. Seurin, of various styles and
very interesting.

In the modern genre (mixed and Renaissance) is remarkable the beautiful church of Our Lady (rebuilt
at the beginning of XVIII century) and in the Fuldenses draws attention the tomb of the celebrated
Montaigne.

As far as the pure Renaissance, its architecture is represented by very beautiful sights such
as the Great Theater, the Bourse, the Palais-real, Justice, Customs, the Museum and Hospital,
one of the best of its kind in Europe. Point to monuments Bridge the Garonne and the great theater
are works outstanding. The first is amazing for its size and robustness. It measures 486 meters
long and 35 latitude (13 and 1 / 2 of road and 11 and 1 / 2 of sidewalks)
and rests on seventeen huge arches and brick masonry openings which
allow movement of large ships and steamers.

It is one of the most magnificent bridges (perhaps the first of its kind) that has the French. The theater,
though less spacious than the famous Barcelona Milan and Naples, is the most beautiful of France,
on the inner and outer forms, and has few rivals in Europe.

The Museum contains an excellent library of about 120,000 volumes, a vast museum Very valuable natural
history and mineralogy collections and antiques. Gallery paintings, transferred to the Municipal
House (City Hall), is large and contains good pictures, mainly French and Flemish schools.

Besides many other important buildings, its beautiful public baths, splendid walks, its astronomical
observatory, botanical gardens and acclimatization, etc., Bordeaux
contains many excellent educational institutions and charities of
all kinds, which give the value of a European city at least second
order.

If attention is fixed purely commercial movement, the quays of the Garonne offer the greatest
interest. A huge forest of masts populates the waves of the river, Waving the flags of all
nations world trade on ships of shapes and dimensions that feed multifarious change universal.

Along the embankments on either margin remains an extraordinary movement cars and goods, and
while there, the porters swarm in incessant activity, thousands of sailors call the attention
from the river, with their schemes and developments at the top of the masts and spars. If the
vast quarries of construction (or shipyard) stirred an entire population of carpenters, manufacturers
of cables, etc., where numerous dams and extensive rest ships hull, leading to a movement no less
important. Apart of the many ships belonging to owners of Bordeaux, making foreign trade and maintain
communications and international coastal sea, constantly weapon Bordeaux
numerous expeditions for whaling and cod.

Many small Steamers navigable river up and down the Garonne in Bordeaux, while others make the
largest shipping heading to Spain and Portugal, England, Germany, etc., and a line of powerful
steamers is already ongoing relationship to Bordeaux with the main ports of Brazil and the
Republics del Plata.

The industry in Bordeaux is completely analogous to that of Marseille, with its notable addition
spinning cotton and wool, knitwear and printed calico, large foundries, etc. Apart the enormous
centralization of wines called "Bordeaux," which the whole world knows, the city ​​has large sugar
refineries and nitro, vast distillation of liquors, vinegars, smelling water, oil, etc., a
strong imperial tobacco manufacturing, large manufacturing chemicals and machinery and all that
is consequent to a major seaport.
 The stern realities of military life
through which he had passed, had in nowise interfered with those social qualities which so
endeared our hero to the hearts of all. In Lady Douglas, Sir Howard found a faithful helpmate,
a loving wife and deeply affectionate and pious mother. Lady Douglas never wearied in watching
and caring for the welfare of her children. No mother could be more amply rewarded in seeing
her family grow up loved and honoured; her sons true types of gentlemanly honour; her daughters
having all those graces which are desirable to beautify the female characters, and make woman
an ornament in her family and in society. "Mr. Howe," exclaimed Sir Howard, glancing towards
that personage, "you escaped a severe ordeal by being tardy this afternoon. You have proved
that every rule has an exception, but I must be careful not to introduce any comparisons;"
thus saying, his Excellency directed his smile towards Mr. Trevelyan. Seated beside Miss Douglas,
the young Lieutenant once more heightening the effect of his handsome dark eyes by the deepening
colour of his cheeks. "Come, come, Mr. Trevelyan, reveal what is hidden behind His Excellency's
smile." "Pardon me, Mr. Howe," said Lady Douglas, "I am pledged to relieve Mr. Trevelyan of
any further parley. A truce was effected until the compromise is paid this evening in the drawing
room." "I thank your Ladyship," said the Lieutenant, bowing. "Then, Your Excellency, that theory
falls to the ground at present," said Mr. Howe, "I am not classified as an exception." The
secretary smiled as he thought of the cause of his tardiness, and the sport his revelation
would make for the gentlemen, when the ladies had withdrawn. "My Lady Rosamond is rather demure,"
said Sir Howard, smiling upon that young lady with his truthful smile. "Really Your Excellency
cannot forget that I have been studiously trying to avoid any pitfalls." "Ah, you cunning rogue,
you are amusing yourself with the shortcomings of the party," returned Sir Howard, "this is
unjust. We will demand some concessions from those members who have been drawing largely upon
the resources of others." Turning to Lady Douglas, he added, "Your Ladyship will please bear
that fact in mind, or rather make a note of it. Lady Rosamond Seymour and Mr. James Douglas
will make amende honourable for past delinquencies, not forgetting Mr. Howe. Will add that
the last clause be conditional." A general flow of conversation follows as the dinner progressed.
Harmony prevailed throughout while humour and wit were salient points in many topics. The most
remarkable feature, perhaps, was the absence of anything that could not be received by the
most fastidious. All practical jokes or questionable remarks were discountenanced by the family
of Sir Howard Douglas.

One of the members laying claim to your attention is the Lady Rosamond Seymour, a distant cousin
to Lady Douglas, descended from that distinguished family of Seymours so conspicuous in the
Tudor Period. Lady Rosamond was a character of rare distinction. Her Father, Sir Thomas Seymour,
an English Admiral, a man brave, honourable, respected and admired. He had married Lady Maria
Bereford, the daughter of an English Baronet, who, dying at an early date, left two sons and
one daughter--the Lady Rosamond. Placed under the care of a maiden aunt, the young lady had
the benefit of learned instructions. Sir Thomas was determined that his child should receive
all possible pains in her education. Though displaying no uncommon ability, Lady Rosamond was
studious and persevering, compensating for genius by never failing application. She made considerable
progress in classics, literature and poetry. In mathematics she was deficient. "I will do my
best," she would often say to her tutor, "but you know I never was expected to be a mathematician."
Lady Rosamond was indeed beautiful. The perfect features of her oval shaped face were lit by
sparkling black eyes, full, large and dreamy, sometimes bewildering one with their variety
of expression. While residing with her aunt, Lady Rosamond had formed an intimacy with Mary
Douglas, which increased as they grew older. Together they spent many happy hours, and never
wearied in their bright day dreams thus woven together. Nothing could exceed the grief of those
companions when it was announced that the family of Sir Howard Douglas was soon to depart for
New Brunswick. Lady Rosamond was inconsolable, and after urgent entreaties on the part of Lady
Douglas, Sir Thomas Seymour consented to allow his daughter to remain with them for two years,
after which she would for a time assume the duties and responsibilities of his household. Hence,
Lady Rosamond Seymour came to New Brunswick with the family of Sir Howard Douglas, and thus
we find her the friend of Mary Douglas in Fredericton.

In after chapters will be found the reason for thus introducing Lady Rosamond. To return to
the preceding narrative. After the ladies withdrew the gentlemen remained to discuss over their
cigars and wine. Mr. Howe began by repeating the affair among the messmates of the 52nd, and
the result of his friendly interference. The warmth of his passion was aroused and he vehemently
exclaimed, "Trevelyan, I both regard and respect you as a gentleman and friend, and feel regret
that you were so unfortunate as to become attached to one of the most dissolute and dissipated
of His Majesty's Regiments." The secretary was about to proceed when he was interrupted by
Captain Douglas. "Strong terms, Howe. Your case would in some instances demand redress but
I repeatedly avow not if considered in the light of reason." Mr. Howe saw in the strange light
of Sir Howard's eye that His Excellency would now give, in a few words, his decision with unerring
judgment. "Gentlemen," said he, rising from his seat and casting successive glances at all,
"Mr. Howe seems to feel that the treatment received this afternoon should justify his seeking
redress from those military gentlemen. Would any here think it necessary to create a breach
between the Regiment and ourselves, from the fact of their having, while under the influence
of liquor, shewed an incapacity to treat a guest with becoming respect, being utterly indifferent
to every feeling save that engendered by abuse of appetite? Do I state it aright Mr. Howe?"
"Your Excellency is right," said the Secretary, "sometimes I see the foolishness of being hot-tempered,
but never more than on this occasion."

"We can afford to laugh at the matter now, Howe," said Captain Douglas, "to-morrow you will
heap coals on their heads with a vengeance." The company enjoyed a hearty laugh, in which His
Excellency joined. "You may have cause to bless your stars that you were absent, Trevelyan,"
said Mr. Douglas, "as you might have been pressed into service against Howe."

Guy Trevelyan was indeed a young man of marked ability and much promise. His father, Colonel
Trevelyan, was a brother officer with Sir Howard during the Peninsula campaign. For signal
service he was rewarded by knighthood and the rank of Lieutenant-Colonel. Having obtained for
his son, Guy, a commission in H. M. 52nd Regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel Trevelyan hailed with
delight the tidings of his friend's appointment to the Governorship of New Brunswick. The Regiment
was then stationed in Fredericton and St. John--headquarters at the former--with Major McNair
in command, while the companies stationed at St. John were in charge of Sir Thomas Tilden.
In His Excellency, Guy Trevelyan had a warm-hearted friend. The son of Colonel Trevelyan was
dear to him. Many times Sir Howard looked upon his handsome boyish face, pleased with tracing
the strong resemblance between father and son. The open, generous and manly disposition of
the young Lieutenant shone in every lineament of his countenance. Guy Trevelyan was loved by
every member of the Douglas family. Lady Douglas showed him daily marks of favour, making him
at ease in the bosom of her household. Nor did our young officer abuse these acts of true kindness
and personal privilege. Unassuming, gentle and affable Guy Trevelyan was more eagerly sought
than seeking. Sir Howard admired his favorite, his diffidence and bashful coyness. "He is one
to make a mark," said he. "Give me the disposition of Guy in preference to those aping and
patronizing airs assumed by the majority of young gentlemen on entering the army." Once, on
addressing Lieutenant-Colonel Trevelyan, he wrote the following: "Have no fear for Guy; he
is a true scion of the old stock. His nature is truthful, honourable and sincere, not being
addicted to those vices which ruin our bravest soldiers. He has endeared himself to our family,
in fact, Lady Douglas would lament his absence almost the same as one of her own sons."

Having made this digression, thus introducing the principal members of the company, we will
now ask the reader to follow the ladies into the drawing room. Government House drawing room
was indeed an apartment of costly elegance. Richly covered and gilded furniture was arranged
in stately profusion. Quaintly and gorgeously embroidered silken draperies were festooned with
graceful effect. Rare paintings adorned the frescoed walls. Priceless cabinets, vases and statuary
were grouped with artistic hand. Turkey carpets of the most brilliant hues covered the floor,
while the flashing and almost dazzling light radiating from the massive chandeliers, made the
scene one of surpassing grandeur--something almost incredible outside the lustre and surroundings
of a kingly residence. Such is a correct picture of old Government House over half a century
ago. Then it shone with true chivalric glory. Now with its structure and surroundings a dream
of the past.

In the midst of her group sat Lady Douglas occupied in some fancy netting, while each lady
had some especial task. "Miss Cheenick," said Her Ladyship, "will you be so kind as to assist
Miss Mary in the selection of suitable shades of silk for this piece of embroidery. You will
accompany her to-morrow after luncheon, as she is anxious to commence." "It is to be hoped
that we will meet with success as, judging from the appearance of the stores in this city,
there is not much to select from," said Mary Douglas, "but, Miss Cheenick, only think, it will
be our first attempt at shopping in Fredericton." "How much better and more convenient if there
were exclusive dry goods stores as in England," said Lady Rosamond. "It is rather amusing to
see all kinds of groceries and provisions on one side, and silks, satins and laces on the other.
Pardon me, mamma, if I use the expression of Mr. Howe, 'everything from a needle to an anchor.'"
"Well, my child, you will agree that both are useful," said Her Ladyship, "but I am doubtful
whether the last named article is to be obtained here."

At the close of these remarks, the gentlemen were received. Sir Howard, true to his obligation,
had found a seat beside his daughter Mary. "Papa," she exclaimed, "my knight is true,--'A good
knight and true.'"

"At Lady Douglas' suggestion, I am duly bound to disclose some views upon New Brunswick and
its capital. In the first place, I must plead ignorance, from want of sufficient time to note
the general aspect, features and surroundings. This is a primitive soil, populated and toiled
by a primitive people. Agriculture is yet in its infancy, and no prospect at hand for the furtherance
of this important calling. Well wooded land, fertile valley and pleasing variety, show that
this should be the great and only resource of this country. What facilities are afforded to
the farmer for the importation of produce, were this noble river to be opened up with steam
navigation. In a year hence, if my life be spared, I shall be able to afford you some information
on life in the back settlements, and the means resorted to by the settlers. At present there
are only five roads in the whole Province; three of which you have seen, as they lead from
this city in different directions; the one to St. John; also, that passing our door to Quebec;
and the third which I shewed you last week as leading to Miramichi. The fourth leads to St.
Andrews, a small seaport in the south-west; while the fifth leads to Halifax." "Pardon me,
Your Excellency, I could not help observing that the condition of these roads pay small tribute
to McAdam, or Telford, being a rapid and sudden succession of up hill and down dale." "One
would need a vigorous constitution," returned Sir Howard, "to make a practical test. People
do not have much traffic upon these roads, from the fact that the settlements are more numerous
along the river, which holds out more advantages."

"Papa," exclaimed Sir Howard's favourite daughter, "How much I should like to accompany you
on an expedition through the forests of New Brunswick." "Perhaps you may, when the roads are
more accessible, when there will be established comfortable inns where one can rest and be
refreshed. None will press me to give any further report of the country, when I make a guarantee
to do so at some time in the future, when there will be, I trust, good progress made."

"Many thanks, Your Excellency," said Mr. Howe, in response to Sir Howard, and, "in behalf of
the company, may I express a hope that your wish be realized in the future of New Brunswick's
history. May this province yet rise in commercial prosperity and national wealth, and may New
Brunswick's sons yet assume their proud position as Governors of the province." "Mr. Howe is
growing eloquent," remarked Lady Rosamond, to Mr. Trevelyan.--"A conspiracy on foot," exclaimed
Miss Douglas, glancing towards Lady Rosamond. "Now Mr. Trevelyan will play his part," said
Captain Douglas, with mock solemnity.

The young Lieutenant selected a passage from "Cymbeline," receiving the gratitude and applause
of the ladies, to whose repeated entreaties he also read an extract from "King Lear," commencing
with the line "No, I will be the pattern of all patience." Guy Trevelyan's voice was full,
soft and musical, having the power of soothing the listener; but when required for dramatic
readings, could command a versatility that was surprising. Miss Douglas archly proposed to
Lady Douglas her wish to join in a game of whist. Thus engaged, the remainder of the evening
passed quickly away. Mary Douglas still retaining her gallant partner, having secured the rubber
against Mr. Howe and Miss Douglas, warmly congratulated Sir Howard on their success. "Never
despair, Miss Douglas," said Mr. Howe, "we bide our time." The secretary's carriage being announced,
with smiles and bows he took leave, followed by Mr. Trevelyan, who accepted the proffered invitation.

CHAPTER III.

AN EVENING IN OFFICERS' MESS-ROOM.

Many of our readers are familiar with the old building still standing, facing on Queen Street,
known as the officers' barracks. At the time when this story opened, this was a scene of continual
festivity--life in its gayest aspect. Here were quartered the noisy, the swaggering, the riotous,
the vain, the gallant, the honourable, and all those different qualities which help to form
the make-up of the many individuals comprising the officers of H. M. 52nd Regiment. At no period,
before or since, has Fredericton ever risen to such notoriety. Several enterprising gentlemen
of this body in connexion with a few of the leading citizens planned and laid the first regular
and circular race course, near where the present now is situated, under the management of J.
H. Reid, Esq., and the members of York County Agricultural Society.

On the old race course it was no unusual occurrence to witness as many as a dozen races during
the space of two days. Sons of gentlemen, both in military and private life, were the owners
of thorough-bred horses, each claiming the highest distinctions regarding full-blooded pedigree.
These were Fredericton's glorious days--days of sport; days of chivalry; days of splendour
and high life. On the evening in question, a festive board was spread with all the eclat attending
a dinner party. Some hours previous a grand assemblage had gathered on the race course to witness
a race between Captain Douglas' mare Bess, and a celebrated racer introduced on the course
by Lieutenant-Colonel Tilden, ridden by his groom. Much betting had arisen on both sides. Excitement
ran high. Bets were being doubled. The universal din and uproar was growing loud, noisy and
clamorous. The band played spirited music, commencing with national airs, and, in compliment
to an American officer, a guest of Sir Thomas Tilden, finished off with Hail Columbia. Bess
won the race. His Excellency, Capt. Douglas, in the capacity of aide-de-camp, Mr. Howe and
Mr. James Douglas, with their friend, Lieutenant Trevelyan, stood on an eminence bordered by
woods. Here Sir Howard watched the afternoon's sport with keen interest. He saw in the assembly
many features to be discountenanced. None admired a noble animal better than Sir Howard, and
none were more humane in their treatment. Captain Douglas entered more into the sport of the
proceedings. His whole mind for the present was centered on the expectation of his noble little
animal. In gaining the race he was generous to the last degree. Honor was the password in all
his actions, while he gave his opponents that feeling which led them to thank him for an honorable
defeat.

The occasion of Lt. Col. Tilden's arrival was always hailed with a round of festivities. This
evening was the commencement, servants in livery were at every footstep. An array of butlers
and waiters was conspicuous arranging the different tables. The grateful odors emitted from
several passages presaged the elaborate dishes to be served. The rattle of dishes, clinking
of glasses, and drawing of corks, hinted of the viands in unlimited store. While the above
were conducted in the mess-room, many of the guests were as busy in their own private apartments
making the necessary toilet for the reception. In the foremost tier of rooms to the left, facing
the river, on the ground floor, is the one occupied by Lieut. Guy Trevelyan. He is brushing
out the waves of chestnut brown hair which, though short, shows a tendency to assert its nature
despite the stern orders of military rule. A shade passes over the brow of the youthful-looking
soldier as he dons his scarlet uniform. His thoughts are not at ease. Guy Trevelyan feels a
vague and unaccountable yearning--an undefined feeling which is impossible to shake off. "Well,
Trevelyan," soliloquized he; "you are a strange old fellow; such a state as this must not be
indulged amidst the stir and hurly-burly of to-night. I believe bedlam has broken loose." No
wonder that Trevelyan thought so; for, at that moment, several noisy songs broke upon him--the
barking of at least a score of dogs, the clatter of steps upon the pavement, and the practising
of fifes and drums. Such a babel--a distraction of noises and shouts of hilarious impatience
were amusing in the extreme. At the appointed hour, the usual ceremonies of introduction being
passed, the company were at last seated. And such a table! Such an array that one would only
get into difficulty by attempting to describe it. Captain Douglas occupied a seat to the right
of Lt. Col. Tilden and received that attention which characterizes Sir Thomas. Mr. Howe, once
more on friendly footing, was assigned a seat beside the incorrigible Captain Hawley, whose
choice epithets produced such sensitive effects upon the ears of the secretary sometime previous.
Major McNair, a brusque, genial, stout-hearted soldier, always ready to do the honors of the
Regiment under his charge, had on his right Captain Hawkins, an American officer; on his left
an American youth and nephew of the officer. The convivial resources of these dinners were
of a nature sometimes loud, boisterous, and exhilarating. Though indulging in countless practical
jokes, various scenes of carousal, revels, mingling with toast upon toast, cards and amusements,
there was a general good feeling throughout the whole proceedings. Misunderstandings sometimes
led to sharp words, but the intervention of a superior had a healing effect. In nowise did
Lieutenant Trevelyan receive so many taunts from his fellow officers as for habits of moderation.
They often dubbed him "Saint Guy, the cold water man," which only served to amuse the young
Lieutenant. The attention of the American was often directed to Mr. Trevelyan, listening with
deep interest to the history of the young man and his distinguished father. "Lieutenant Trevelyan
is a gentleman in every sense of the term," said the Major. "There is no need of that explanation,
sir," said the American; "it is written in bold outline upon his handsome boyish face. His
father will yet be proud of such a son." "The words of His Excellency," returned the Major.
In the flow of general conversation that ensued many pretty speeches were made by the military
and responded by several citizens, gentlemen who were frequent guests at dinner. Sir Thomas
Tilden arose, complimenting Captain Douglas on his success, hoping that they may meet soon
on the same business. This called from the gallant and handsome Captain one of his most witty
and humorous speeches, after which Captain Hawley sang Rule Britannia with the entire company
in a deafening chorus. After a short pause, cries of "Howe! Howe!" Nothing short of an oration
would satisfy. The secretary rose and delivered something which would take some investigation
to classify either as an epic, oration, or burlesque. They wanted variety and such it was.
A puzzled expression rested on Lieutenant Trevelyan's face as he tried to follow Mr. Howe in
the lengthy harangue.

The band afterwards played "Hail Columbia," which was the signal for Captain Hawkins to respond.
The American thanked the Commander and Officers of H. M. 52nd Regt. for the marked hospitality
and courtesy extended to him during his stay. Alluding to the feeling of dissatisfaction existing
between the sister nations, he hoped to see a firmer footing established between them; and
all former animosities wiped out forever. These and other like sentiments called forth loud
applause, the band playing "The Star Spangled Banner." Speech followed toast and song until
the hours wore on unheeded. Lest it might be considered an absurdity, we will not say how many
toasts were actually made--not in water, either, on this occasion. The strongest proof of this
fact was found in the dozens of empty bottles lying scattered in profusion upon sideboards,
tables and floors, the following morning, as servants looked on in dismay. The task of removal
is no slight task. Before the company breaks up let us take another glance at Lieutenant Trevelyan.
In respect to his superiors the young gentleman still remained as one of the company. Though
twenty-one years had lightly passed over our young friend and favourite, one would not judge
that he was more than eighteen. His smooth and beardless face had the delicate bloom of a young
and pretty girl. Dimples nestled in his cheeks playing hide and seek to the various emotions
of the owner. Guy Trevelyan had not mastered his feelings during the "hurly burly," as firmly
as was his wont. Relapsing into an existence half reality, half dreamlike, he was striving
to divine the true state of his thoughts when called upon by Sir Thomas Tilden. "Here is Lieutenant
Trevelyan, the Adonis of our Regiment, whom we cannot accuse of a breach of impropriety to-night,
except it be that of reserve." "Come now, Trevelyan, you are in for a song," exclaimed a dozen
voices, pressing around the young Lieutenant, in noisy appeals. Contrary to their expectations,
Trevelyan did favor the company with a patriotic song, which drew forth stirring applause and
made him the hero of the evening. "Well done, my hearty," exclaimed Captain Hawley, slapping
him on the shoulders, shouting lustily, "Hurrah for Trevelyan, hip, hip, hurrah for Trevelyan."
"Eh, old chum," muttered Lieutenant Landon, in incoherent and rambling speech, about "faint
heart and fair lady." "As congratulations are at present the rule, I cannot make an exception,"
said Mr. Howe. "Thanks my boy for this, and may you soon have occasion for another." "And another,"
roared the crowd, taking up the last words of the secretary. "My warmest thanks, Mr. Trevelyan,"
said the Lieutenant Colonel, warmly pressing his young friend's hand. This last act of courtesy
was more gratefully received by Mr. Trevelyan than the noisy demonstrations of his brother
officers. Soon afterwards, guest after guest departed in various moods and in various ways;
some making zig-zag and circuitous routes, while others were more steady in the bent of their
direction. More definite description might be given of these parties than that pictured here.
More details might be given of scenes of dissipation, when each member must "drink himself
under the table," to achieve the respect of his fellows; but the writer forbears not wishing
to expose the darker shades of the picture, allowing the reader full control of his or her
imagination, if willing to go further. Suffice it to say, no brawls had marred the "jolly time."
All went away in good humour, while the American was so loud in praise, that he almost wished
himself an officer in H. M. 52nd Regiment. Having made his adieu, Captain Douglas took leave
for his bachelor's quarters, held in the house on the site at present occupied by George Minchin,
Esq., on King Street, whither his friend Howe had preceded him. In this building, was kept
the Governor's Office, as well. Here Captain Douglas found himself, as the darkest hour that
precedes the dawn reminded of approaching day. "Howe," said he, "sit down and have a chat for
a few moments. What did you think of the affair? Of cousin Jonathan and his nephew?" "One question
at a time, Douglas," said Mr. Howe, pulling out a cigar case and passing one to his friend.
"In answer to your first, I may say that under the circumstances there was some credit for
being merry. It happened at a deuced bad time, but Sir Thomas took his defeat manfully, while
those animated volcanoes, Hawley and Markham were wonderfully passive--a fact we must attribute
to Major McNair. The general melee and pow-wow in which I was so unceremoniously toasted, taught
a lesson. Jove, the Major is entitled to an order if he can, by any means, reclaim any of the
52nd. But the most amusing of the crowd is Trevelyan, who reminds me of an Englishman in Paris.
He is clear, too. The oftener I see him the more I find to admire. He has a stock of drollery
in reserve, too. Only think of the song and how received; Jove, he can sing like a thrush or
nightingale."

"Sometimes he wears a puzzled look which I cannot define; but Trevelyan one day will make his
mark if not led astray by some of his comrades. Still, in the same youth, there is considerable
backbone, plenty of determination if necessary." "Hold on, Howe, when are you coming to the
second question," exclaimed Douglas, in slightly impatient tones. "Bide your time, old fellow.
Getting sleepy too, by Saint George," said the secretary, using his favourite Saint and Patron
as necessary expletive. "Oh! about Jonathan, or Sam, or cousin Jonathan. Cousin Jonathan is
certainly a jolly fellow. How they did stuff him with compliments. Cousin Jonathan is a bigger
man than when he arrived, and Markham, would you not think he hailed from the 'ould country,'
by the quantities of that commodity supposed to come direct from Killarney, which he used upon
cousin Jonathan and Hail Columbia. Ha, ha, ha."

"Douglas, the younger Jonathan is a genuine specimen of Young America. By Jove, to see him
at good advantage he should have been seated beside Guy Trevelyan--our Adonis. Is not the old
chap mighty complimentary? Think it was rather hard on the vanity of Landon and Grey. We must
be sure give the toast to Trevelyan, when they are present, to have another skirmish." "Judging
from your state of mind at the first, one would not deem it advisable to enter the lists a
second time," said Captain Douglas. "Bear in mind the Major has too much on his hands already."
"Constant practice only serves to sharpen his wits," said Mr. Howe, with a vein of sarcasm
in his tones. "It grows late, or, I should say, early," said Douglas, without taking notice
of the last sentence. "Howe, good morning, I shall retire." "Au revoir Douglas."

"Oh, sleep! Oh, gentle sleep! Nature's soft nurse," murmured Captain Douglas, as he sought
repose from the wearing and fatiguing rounds of the last evening and remaining part of the
night. Soon the "gentle sleep" was upon him, and, steeped in quiet forgetfulness, slept peacefully,
regardless of toast, speeches and cousin Jonathan.

His friend in the adjoining room still puffed away at a cigar, drank another toast to cousin
Jonathan, soliloquizing: "By Jove, I shall watch him closely. He is a clever youth, but I shall
make a study of him. If he would make me his confidante I should readily assist him. Douglas
has not the penetration to perceive it, but I can. Can any young lady be mixed up in the affair?
If so, I may be at a loss to discover." In the meantime, the secretary, now thinking it time
to follow Douglas to gentle sleep, commenced to prepare for retiring, further soliloquizing:
"That look puzzled me last night, I must make good my word." Here he stopped short and was
soon enjoying sound sleep, in order to feel refreshed for the duties and social demands of
another day. The coming day intended to be almost a repetition of the past. Morning, public
parade; afternoon, on the race course; and evening in the mess-room. Sir Thomas Tilden's arrival
was always hailed with joy, being marked with grand festive honours, balls, parties and suppers.
To these seasons the officers and many of the leading citizens looked forward with fond expectation.
Beautiful ladies met in their ball-room the gallantry and chivalry of Fredericton. Nothing
but gaiety on every hand. Such events marked the order of society in the capital of New Brunswick
over half a century ago.

CHAPTER IV.

LADY ROSAMOND'S REVERIE.

In a small but exquisitely furnished apartment in Government House sat a young and beautiful
lady. The room commanded a north-west view, showing a bright and silvery sheet of rippling
water. This was the private apartment of Lady Rosamond. It is the hour when she is occupied
in writing letters and attending to the many little matters demanding her attention. An open
letter lies upon her lap. Lady Rosamond is listlessly leaning against a dressing-table, with
one hand partially shading her beautiful face. Quickly turning round to look at some object
beyond gives a full view, which reveals a tender sadness resting in the depths of those powerful
dark eyes. Lady Rosamond is in a deep study--one which is not of an agreeable nature--one which
she is not most likely to reveal. Alternate shades of displeasure, rebellion and defiance,
flit across her brow, which remain, in quiet and apparently full possession, until reluctantly
driven forth by the final ascendancy of reason, at the cost of many conflicting feelings of
emotion and deep despondency.

Again Lady Rosamond reads the letter very slowly, as though to find, in each word and sentence,
some other meaning which might allay her present distracting thoughts. Vainly did the reader
search for relief. The diction was plain, clear and definite. No chance to escape. No fond
smiles from Hope's cheering presence. Hope had fled, with agonizing gaze, as Lady Rosamond
once more read that letter. Every word was stamped upon her heart in characters of bold and
maddening outline. Heaving a deep sigh she folded the letter, placed it within her desk, and
mechanically stood gazing upon the quiet river, peaceful and calm, save the little ripple on
the surface. Lady Rosamond contrasted the scene with her troubled depths and superficial quiet
exterior.

Quietly opening the window the cool sharp breeze of an October morning was grateful to the
feverish flush partially visible upon the cheeks of Lady Rosamond. She was usually pale, save
when an occasional blush asserted its right. Standing here in such a state of mind Lady Rosamond
was indeed beautiful--a lovely picture with delicate expression and coloring. While she is
thus engaged let us intrude upon the privacy of her feelings by taking forth the letter from
its hiding place, and examining its contents. It seems a sacrilegious act, but it is in our
great sympathy and interest on behalf of Lady Rosamond that we yield to the temptation.

The writing is in a bold, masculine hand, clear, legible, and uniform. If there be such a thing
as judging the character of the writer by the chirography in the present instance, there was
decision, firmness, bordering on self-will, and resistance to opposition. The letter ran thus:--

     Chesley Manor, Surrey, Oct. 4th, 1824.

     My Dear Child:

     Having a few moments to spare this morning I devote them to your
     benefit, with a fond hope that you are as happy as the day is long.
     It does seem rather hard for me to be moping around this quiet
     house and my little girl away in New Brunswick, but it is useless
     to repine. In a few days I will take charge of a ship to go abroad
     for some months. Our fleet now demands my attention, which, I am
     happy to say, will drive away loneliness and repinings for the
     little runaway. Was much pleased to meet an old friend of Sir
     Howard Douglas--Colonel Fleetwood--who served in the same regiment
     while in Spain, and is ever loud in praise of his friend. Though an
     old soldier now, he has the true ring of military valor, which
     would gain the esteem of Sir Howard.

     Your aunt is enjoying a visit to Bereford Castle; writes in good
     health and spirits. Your cousin, Gerald, is again on a political
     campaign, being sanguine in the prospect of being re-seated in
     Parliament the next session. I am watching the event as one which
     concerns us deeply. Bereford is a young man of much promise. He
     will indeed fill well his position as owner of Bereford Castle, as
     well as peer of the realm. Lord Bereford is truly proud of his heir
     as the noblest of this ancient and loyal family. My dearest child,
     it is my fondest desire that in you may be doubly united the
     families of Seymour and Bereford. Gerald is the son-in-law of my
     choice, and it is my earnest desire that you may favor a fond
     parent's views in this matter. That your cousin regards you both
     fondly and tenderly I am truly convinced. He expressed his opinion
     very freely on making a visit last week, when I gave him my
     unbounded confidence and direct encouragement. On leaving he
     requested me to intimate this feeling towards you in a quiet
     manner, which I now do, with sufficient knowledge of your character
     to know that a parent's wishes will not be opposed. Gerald Bereford
     will be in a position to give you that ease and affluence your
     birth demands. As Lady Bereford, Lady Rosamond Seymour will neither
     compromise rank, wealth, nor dignity, and will be happy in the love
     of a fond, devoted husband, and the blessing of a doting father. It
     is my great love for you, my child, that urges this settlement. I
     am certain that you will have no hesitation in giving your answer.
     You are young, and have as yet formed no prior attachments, for
     which circumstance thank heaven, and allow me to congratulate you
     for being so fortunate as to secure the heart and hand of Gerald
     Bereford. Do not imagine that it is our wish to shorten your stay
     in New Brunswick. You are at liberty to enjoy the companionship of
     your friend Mary till the years have expired, after which I think
     that my daughter will be anxious to see her only parent, and to
     form high opinions of her cousin Gerald. My dear, I do not wish to
     hurry you, already knowing your answer. Wishing to be kindly
     remembered to Sir Howard and Lady Douglas, and the family, with my
     fondest love.

     Remain, Your Father.

Such was the tenor of the epistle which had caused these feelings within the bosom of Lady
Rosamond. Sir Thomas Seymour was a man not to be thwarted in his designs. He loved his child
with deep tenderness, and, as he said in the letter, this was the reason of his solicitude.
It had always been the secret pride of the Admiral's life that Gerald Bereford should wed Lady
Rosamond, but he kept his favorite plans closely guarded until means were offered to aid him.
Many times Sir Thomas fancied that Gerald Bereford admired his lovely cousin, and had a faint
hope in the realization of his wishes. When the climax was reached, by those avowals on the
part of the suitor, the great joy of the solicitous parent knew no bounds. He seemed to view
the matter as one which would give entire happiness to all parties. Lady Rosamond was to be
congratulated on the brilliant prospects of her future. The Bereford family were to be congratulated
on their securing such an acquisition as Lady Rosamond, while Gerald Bereford was to be congratulated
on having won the heart of such a pure and lovable being as his future bride. All those congratulations
were in prospect before the mental vision of the Admiral as he lovingly dwelt upon the matter.

From the effect thus produced upon Lady Rosamond it was certain she viewed the matter in a
different light. True, she had never, by thought or action, been betrayed to show the least
possible regard or preference towards any of the many gallants from whom she oftentimes received
many flattering attentions.

Towards her cousin Gerald she had always been considerate and friendly. When on several occasions
he had taken particular pains to gratify her slightest wish, and pay more deferential regard
than was necessary to the demands of their relationship, Lady Rosamond affected utter ignorance
of the cause by treating him with a familiarity that gave him no opportunity to urge his suit.

When Sir Thomas gave consent to his daughter's reception in the family of Sir Howard Douglas,
it was in the firm belief that on her return her mind would be matured to enter more fully
upon plans relative to her settlement in life. At the death of Sir Thomas the lands and estate
of Chesley Manor would be inherited by Frederick Seymour, the eldest son; a smaller estate,
bordering upon that of Lord Bereford, affording a moderate income, went to the second son Geoffrey,
while an annuity of four thousand pounds had been settled upon Lady Rosamond, with a marriage
jointure of fifty thousand pounds, to be placed in the hands of the trustees. By the marriage
of Gerald Bereford and Lady Rosamond, the latter would secure an inheritance of which she was
next direct heir, being the niece of the present lord incumbent.

Lady Rosamond weighed all these arguments and tried to find by some means a possibility of
escape, but all lay in the dark and dim distance, exacting heavy payment from her ladyship.

This was a heavy blow to a person of Lady Rosamond's sensitive nature. The thought was revolting
to her. For some time previous a dim foreboding haunted her--a presentiment of gloom and of
deep sorrow. On receiving the letter its weight seemed to lie heavily upon her. Now the contents
again caused her much pain. To whom could she go for comfort? To whom unburden her mind? Leaning
her head upon the table Lady Rosamond sought refuge in tears. She sobbed bitterly. "It is at
this trying moment I miss my dear mother," murmured the poor girl in faltering accents of outspoken
grief. "Heaven pity those who have no mother. With her loving and tender heart my mother never
would have allowed the sanctity of my feelings to be thus invaded and trampled upon. And my
dear father, I love him, but can I fulfil his wishes? It is my duty! Oh, heaven direct me!"

Poor Lady Rosamond! Her sorrow was indeed deep. In the midst of such murmurs she arose, walked
to the window, and once more fanned her cheeks with the cooling breath of heaven, which afforded
momentary relief.

As the large plate mirror opposite reflected the tear stains upon her pale but lovely face,
Lady Rosamond resolved to banish all traces of sorrow. Returning from the adjoining dressing-room
not a shade clouded the features of the suffering girl. The silken ringlets of her raven black
hair were rearranged with bewildering profusion, while the feverish blush added to her surpassing
charms. A faint smile passed over Lady Rosamond's features as she tried to appear gay and assumed
those girlish charms which made friends on every side, from Sir Howard to the youngest member
in the household. "Oh, dear, what shall I do?" escaped the lips of the sufferer. "What will
bring this matter to an end?" But pride would not allow Lady Rosamond to reveal her feelings.
She would be a true Seymour. It were well that she possessed this spirit, being in this instance
an offset to injured delicacy.

Having remained in privacy longer than it was customary, she reluctantly prepared to meet the
family. Descending the upper stairway, she was met by one of the children who had come to summon
her to join them in a walk.

Lady Rosamond was always a favorite with children and the family of Sir Howard formed no exception.
They loved to accompany her on long walks in search of any thing the surrounding woods afforded.
Scarce two months had passed since their arrival and they were familiar with all the cosy retreats,
nooks and pretty spots to be found. Surrounded by her followers, Lady Rosamond appeared as
a naiad holding revel with her sylvan subjects.

In her present mood the woods seemed to suggest calm. With her companion, Mary Douglas, and
the romping children, Lady Rosamond was seemingly happy. A slight accident occurred which somewhat
disturbed the enjoyment of all, more especially those whom it most concerned.

In crossing a narrow brook by means of a small plank which, being rotten, gave way, Lady Rosamond
was thrown into the water with no regard to ceremony. A loud scream from Helen Douglas, who
was standing near, brought the whole company, while terrified shrieks arose on all sides. In
an instant Master Johnnie Douglas appeared in sight followed by Lieut. Trevelyan. The mischievous
disposition of the former could not prevent an outburst of laughter despite all his high notions
of gallantry. The young lieutenant came boldly forward, seized the hand of Lady Rosamond, and
led her to a seat at a short distance. The dripping garments clinging to the form of the frightened
girl moved the young soldier with pity and showed the tender nature of his manly heart. The
heartless Johnnie was dispatched for dry wraps and more comfortable clothing. Lieutenant Trevelyan
could not force a smile. The same puzzled expression which had baffled Mr. Howe forced itself
upon him.

Mary Douglas had wrapped her companion's feet in the shawl taken off her own shoulders, and
sat anxiously awaiting their courier. The children were more demonstrative in showing their
grief. During the moments that passed the minds of the elder members of the group were busily
engaged.

Lady Rosamond, regardless of her situation, was busied in projecting schemes the most fanciful.
She was thinking of the contents of her father's letter. In spite of the strong efforts of
will her thoughts would turn in another and far different direction, which, perhaps, on this
occasion it would be more discreet to conceal. The painful and ill-disguised look was attributed
to the accident. Well for Lady Rosamond if it were so. Yes, an accident, a painful accident--forgive
the expression--an accident of the heart. Poor Lady Rosamond!

Ah, Mr. Trevelyan, we have an undue curiosity to follow the turn of your thoughts; but, as
we once more note that puzzled look, think your generous heart and honest nature deserve more
generous treatment. At least, this time, we grant you further respite.

Johnnie's arrival prevents further moralizing. No room for gravity when Johnnie Douglas is
near. His mischievous spirit is infectious.

CHAPTER V.

CHRISTMAS FESTIVITIES, ETC.

The months pass quickly away. October, with its brilliant trophies of the wood, has departed,
leaving behind many pleasing memories of its presence. November, in its raw and surly mood,
is allowed to take farewell without any expression of regret. The last of this numerous family--December--is
greeted with a hearty reception from every member of the Douglas family. The purity of the
soft snow flakes, falling in myriads, are invested with indescribable charms. The clear, cold,
and frosty atmosphere is exhilarating to the bright, fresh countenances of the youthful party
sliding on the ponds and brooks. The river affords amusement for skaters. The jingle of the
bells is music sweet and gratifying as the horses prance along with a keen sense of the pleasure
they afford to the beautiful ladies encased in costly furs and wrapped in inviting buffalo robes.

A happy season is in prospective. Christmas is approaching with its time-honored customs and
endearing associations. High and low, rich and poor, have the same fond anticipations. In the
lowly cot, surrounded by miles of wilderness, little faces brighten as quickly at mention of
Christmas as those who are reared in the lap of luxury and expectant of fond remembrance in
showers of valuable presents in endless variety.

Preparations were being commenced at Government House on an extensive scale. Lady Douglas was
remarkable for the labors of love in her family at this approaching season. Christmas was to
her a time of unalloyed happiness. "Peace and good will" reigned supreme. Every minute was
spent in promoting happiness by devotion, recreation or charity. The last was one of her most
pleasing enjoyments, for which Lady Douglas received many blessings. From her childhood this
noble lady had exercised her leisure moments in relieving the wants of the poor, often leaving
to them food and clothing with her own hands.

At the suggestion of Miss Douglas, who was always ready for any important duty, a party was
proposed to visit the woods to procure boughs for greening the grand hall and drawing-room.
Foremost was Johnnie Douglas, master of ceremonies, whose presence on the occasion was indispensable;
so said Johnnie, throwing a mischievous glance at Lady Rosamond as a reminder of his services
on a former expedition. The rising color on his victim's face brought a reprimand from Mary
Douglas.

"Don't be of such importance, Johnnie, there are plenty of gentlemen at our command."

"Ha, ha, ha," roared the young gentleman in undisguised and unsuppressed fits of laughter.

"Miss Mary, don't be of too much importance; there may not be so many gentlemen at your command
as you reckon on," said Johnnie, bent on following up his argument; "Mr. Howe is engaged, Mr.
Trevelyan goes on parade this morning, Charles is away; now where are the reserves? Answer--Fred,
and your humble servant."

"Well, Johnnie, you are holding your ground manfully," exclaimed Sir Howard, smiling as he
passed through the group in the lower hall, where they still sat discussing the grounds of
Johnnie's superiority.

Decision turning in favor of the champion, the party set off--boys, ladies, and children--forming
a pretty sight. Lady Douglas stood on the balcony waving approval and beaming with happy smiles.

The shouts of Master Johnnie, laughter of the ladies, and romping of the children, kept the
woods busy in the constant repetition of echoes on every side.

"Oh, Lady Rosamond," cried the hero of the expedition, eager to maintain his position, "here
is the brook, but where is the water to receive some one with another cooling reception, and
where is Mr. Trevelyan with his gallant service and kind sympathy?--Not hinting of the hasty
retreat of your valuable pioneer!"

Mary Douglas, detecting a shade passing over Lady Rosamond's brow, came to the rescue with
another mild reprimand upon the incorrigible Johnnie. "I am afraid, sir, that you take the
opportunity of reminding Lady Rosamond of your former importance without due regard to her
feelings, which, you are aware, is not very gentlemanly."

"If your ladyship is offended," said the mischievous but generous and manly Johnnie, turning
to Lady Rosamond, "I beg your pardon in the most humble manner, feeling deeply sorry."

"Lady Rosamond you really do not think I would consciously give you annoyance," said master
Johnnie, throwing down the bough which he had lopped from a tree near, and drawing up his boyish
form with true dignity and an amusing earnestness in his tone.

"Of course not, Johnnie," returned her ladyship, "you and I are on the best of terms. Nothing
that you say or do gives me any annoyance; on the contrary, it always amuses me."

This last speech of Lady Rosamond had surprised Mary Douglas. Apparently engaged in selecting
the most suitable branches of fir and spruce, she was more intently occupied in the study of
her own thoughts. She was wondering why the mention of the brook adventure had caused that
look which, notwithstanding protests to the contrary, recalled something disagreeable to Lady
Rosamond.

Being interrupted in these thoughts by her brother Fred's arrival with a request to go home,
Mary Douglas joined the merry party, each bearing some burden as part of the spoil, while Johnnie
collected and piled a large heap to be conveyed thither when necessary.

On arriving in the courtyard, Johnnie set up three lusty cheers which brought out Lady Douglas,
accompanied by Mr. Howe and Lieutenant Trevelyan.

"Thought you were on parade this morning, Mr. Trevelyan," exclaimed the pioneer Johnnie, "else
you might have formed another of our party."

"The ladies might not have accepted your decision," returned Mr. Trevelyan, hastily; "however,
I thank you kindly for your consideration."

After the ladies had returned from making the change of toilet necessary upon the tour of the
woods, luncheon was served. Mr. Howe and Mr. Trevelyan remained. Johnnie was full of adventure,
but made no allusion to the brook. Lady Rosamond was calm, possessed, and entertaining. Everybody
seemed inspired with the occasion. Sir Howard was deeply immersed in the furtherance of those
measures and means to be resorted to for the benefit and advancement of the Province. "I have
promised," said he, "to be able to give clearer views upon the improvement of New Brunswick
a year hence, and, in order to do so, must not neglect one moment. Another object which claims
my notice very urgently is the establishment of laws regulating a better system of education.
The grammar school is in a state of mediocrity, its support not being secured on a proper basis.
We want a college--an institution where our young men can receive a thorough education and
be fitted for entering upon any profession."

In every measure advocated by Sir Howard he had the full concurrence of Lady Douglas and her
intelligent and highly educated sons and daughters. Perhaps to this cause may be attributed
the amazing success which marked Sir Howard's career through life. He had the entire and heartfelt
sympathy of his household. He was loved with the truest and fondest affection as a husband
and father. He, in return, placed every confidence in his lovely and amiable wife and daughters,
knowing that through them he received great happiness; and, unfettered with those domestic
trials which attend some families, he was able to discharge the duties of state with full and
determined energy.

The hours that elapsed between luncheon and dinner were spent in the various styles of decoration
suggested by Lady Douglas. The important Johnnie was under the direct supervision of Miss Cheenick,
cutting off and preparing little twigs for garlands, with occasional sallies of good natured
badinage.

Miss Douglas was making illuminated mottoes and texts in a quiet corner of the apartment. Mary
Douglas and her companion were busily weaving pretty and graceful festooning. To each member
was allotted some especial part.

Every one participated in the preparation by noting each successive step towards completion.
Thus the work progressed until it was time for the ladies to dress for dinner; after which
the evening was spent in the same occupation, with the valuable assistance of Mr. Howe and
Captain Douglas.

After several days had elapsed, the work was considered complete. The design was choice and
beautiful. Nothing was necessary to produce a more graceful and pleasing effect. Holly there
was none, but our woods supplied the loss with lovely evergreens of native growth.

It was the day preceding Christmas eve. Mirth and joy revelled around the glowing firesides.
Happy faces beamed with radiating smiles. Each was trying to do some small act of kindness
for the benefit of the household. A Christmas tree, in all its mysterious surroundings, was
being laden with beautiful presents. Loving tokens of friendship were placed on its strong
branches by lovely and delicate hands. Lady Douglas presided over these mysteries, in the secret
chamber, with the vigilance of the dragon who guarded the golden apples in the classic shades
of the Hesperides. All busy little feet were turned towards the door, but further entrance
was barred by gentle admonition from her ladyship.

Lady Rosamond had been allowed the privacy of her own apartments without interruption. She
was preparing some tokens of regard for different members of the family. Many chaste and valuable
articles had been received from home for this purpose, but she wished to make some choice trinkets
as her own work. Many times she had stolen a half-hour to devote to this labor of love. An
elegant silk purse had been netted for Lady Douglas. For Mary Douglas she is engaged on a prettily-designed
portfolio. None were forgotten, not even Sir Howard, who was the recipient of a neat dressing-case.
As Lady Rosamond's deft fingers wrought upon each article her mind was busy upon a far different,
and, to her, important matter. She longed for sympathy and advice. Her father gave himself
little concern regarding her ambiguously-written message. He saw that his daughter was somewhat
cold and indifferent to her cousin's preference, but he expected that, on her return, she would
readily agree to anything which met his approval. Not wishing to repeat the sentiment of the
letter thus described, Sir Thomas Seymour had considered moderation as the surest hope of success.
Having thus expressed his opinion to Lady Bereford, the Admiral was assured and confident.
On this Christmas season he had selected a costly locket, studded with diamonds, as a gift
to Lady Rosamond, and dwelt, with loving pride, upon the many gentle qualities of the lovely
girl; her happy prospects as Lady Bereford, adored by a fond husband, beloved by all.

Happy Lady Rosamond! in thy busy thoughts. Dared we venture for thee an encouraging word, it
would be "Every cloud has a silver lining."

Christmas eve was a scene of stir and excitement. Though work was done in a systematic manner,
the unusual tasks of labor and love were hurrying upon each other with increasing rapidity.
The servant's hall was not to be passed over at this joyous time. Everyone, both family and
servants, shared in the festivity. How the graceful form of Mary Douglas flew from room to
room, arranging some pleasing surprise, planning some little act of courtesy or civility. The
housekeeper's room, stealthily invaded by bribing another domestic, becomes the hiding place
of a handsome lace cap. Each maid finds under her pillow a sovereign and some little trinket,
as a ribbon, scarf or work box.

These were happy moments in the life of Mary Douglas. In the performance of such acts of goodness
she was truly happy. This lovely girl was possessed of the united virtues of Sir Howard and
Lady Douglas. Free from the remotest clouds of sorrow or care, Mary Douglas was indeed to be
envied. Her father's smile was of more value to his gifted daughters than the most flattering
attention from the many admirers who vainly tried to receive the slightest sign of encouragement.

That Lady Rosamond often longed for the happy and contented hours of her companion--for a like
participation of uninterrupted and halcyon days, should form no ground for surprise. "How I
should like to tell Mary my trouble and receive her sweet counsel," murmured the sad girl.
"I should feel the burden lighter to bear, but it would seem almost a sacrilege to invade upon
such quiet harmony, for, with her sweet sympathizing nature, I know that Mary would grieve
over my sorrow. Dear girl, your Christmas shall not be clouded by me," soliloquized Lady Rosamond,
"I love you too deeply to wish you care like mine. Ah, no, Mary darling, may you never know
the depth of sorrow such as mine."

Lady Rosamond stood before her mirror to place a tiny rosebud in the raven hair that encircled
her stately head in luxuriant coils. Slight and graceful in form, she saw indeed a pretty picture
reflected there. It seemed to mock her with pitying gaze. Her black silk dress revealed the
snowy whiteness of her beautifully rounded shoulders and arms, pure as the marble mantel upon
which she rested. The costly locket, with its flashing diamonds, suspended by a heavy gold
chain, rested upon her bosom. She thought of her father's kindness as she placed his gift to
her lips, exclaiming, "Poor, dear papa, how I should like to see him to-night; I love him so
fondly. If he knew what I am suffering perhaps he might relent. No doubt he is lonely to-night
and wishing to see his 'only little girl,' as he lovingly calls me."

Presently Lady Rosamond was formally ushered into the apartment where the company, comprising
the family and a few intimate friends, were assembled to divest the Christmas tree of its gay
clothing and appendages.

As a veritable Santa Claus presented each present, the all-important Johnnie was ready to exclaim:
"Thank old Sandy for that, can't you? What a hale old chap is Sandy!" Turning to Lieutenant
Trevelyan, the incorrigible ventured to ask who might be Sandy's tailor?

When among the presents a tiny case, lined with white velvet, revealed a jewelled cross of
exquisite design, Sir Howard exclaimed gaily, "Lady Rosamond, a coincidence--the cross followed
by an anchor!" producing at the same time a costly ornament in the form of an anchor. "Have
no fear, your cross is outweighed by the anchor Hope in the end. What a beautiful encouraging
omen!"

CHAPTER VI.

ST. JOHN'S EVE.

It was St. John's Eve; Government House was a scene of splendour; truly every precinct was
a blaze of dazzling light. Here was assembled the distinguished, gay, beauty, and wit of the
Province; the learned and severe as well as the thoughtless. Hearts beat with throbbing and
exciting pulsation, fired by hope's fondest dreams. The spacious drawing-room, already described
in a preceding chapter, now assumed, if possible, a more brilliant aspect--flooded with light,
rendered more effective by an additional chandelier, a gem of countless scintillations, distracting
in variety and prismatic design. The courtly reception, high-born dignity and ease exhibited
in every smile, gesture, word and action of the distinguished occupants, might recall vivid
conceptions of the days when beauty and chivalry were conspicuous in homage to royalty and
grand pageantry.

Amidst the pressure and arrival of each guest no confusion was apparent. Rank took precedence
with studied regard. The many guests were attired in a style and elegance becoming the occasion.
Conspicuous was the military rank of the large number of officers of His Majesty's service--colonels,
majors, captains, lieutenants, ensigns, and all those insignias of like distinction. Among
these might be found hidden, viscounts, lords, and baronets, and those aspiring to the proudest
titles and birth of family. To describe the most imposing and costly dresses worn on this evening
would be a difficult task. Ladies arrayed in the most gorgeous and priceless brocade and satins
ablaze with diamonds and gems, snowy silks studded with pearls, velvet robes lined with costly
furs and covered with lace at a fabulous price and texture, coronets of jewels, necklaces,
bracelets, and beautiful trinkets, made the suggestion to a beholder that Heaven had showered
down her radiation of delight by bestowing upon these jewels a reflection scarce less than
that of her own upon the scene above. Among the throng none were more eagerly sought than Lady
Rosamond; her quiet and easy dignity had won the regard and esteem of all those with whom she
mingled. Unassuming and retiring, Lady Rosamond had excited no jealousy on the part of her
less favored female friends. On her they all united in bestowing kind and sisterly regard.
To gratify curiosity, and show our beautiful young friend as she appeared in the drawing-room,
leaning on the arm of Captain Douglas, I will try describe her as nearly as possible:--A white
satin robe with court train, bordered with the purest lace, festooned with pearls, over a blue
satin petticoat, formed a lovely costume, with bodice of white satin, showing the faultless
waist of the wearer; white satin slippers, ornamented with pearls, encased the tiny feet of
Lady Rosamond. She was, indeed, worthy the name she bore--a type of her lovely but unfortunate
ancestress, who won, for a time, the fickle heart of Henry Eighth, and gave birth to the good
and pious young Edward.

Many smiles of recognition were bestowed upon the Lady Rosamond, among whom were those of the
old cavaliers and statesmen, the middle-aged and the young and gay gallants of the day. If
the latter showed any preference, as regards companionship, it was a strange preference for
the more advanced in life. Ladies in the declining stage of life were to her the greatest source
of comfort. To their varied experience of life the young girl would give the entire earnest
of her truthful nature. Nor was this fact unnoticed. Lady Rosamond was the frequent partner
of a revered grandfather, either at the whist table or in the quadrille, much to the secret
annoyance of the young gentlemen present.

Mary Douglas was often at the side of her girl friend. It frequently happened that they were
vis-a-vis in a quadrille, when Lady Rosamond indulged in exchanging playful sallies of mirthful
character. In appearance, manners and companionship those lovely girls might be considered
as sisters. On more than one occasion had such a mistake been of concurrence, while Mary Douglas
was recognized as Lady Rosamond.

Colonel L----, an intimate friend of Sir Howard, remarked to a lady beside him, "This is truly
an enjoyable affair. I am doubtful if many years hence some will not look back and say that
this was one of the happiest moments of their life."

In the midst of this speech a gay and dashing young officer stepped forward, accosting a superior
in command in a brotherly and familiar way, shewing behind a tie of relationship. Aside, in
quiet tones, the younger exclaimed, "Cousin Charles, will you introduce me to the lady in crimson
velvet and white satin, with tiara of diamonds?" "Certainly, Montague, whenever you wish. Do
you not think her beautiful?" "Yes," was the reply, "but not in effect with Lady Rosamond or
Miss Mary. Does not that lovely costume set off her ladyship's charms. How faultless her form!
It is a hard matter to decide between the beauty of those companions."

This last remark caused a blush to suffuse the brow of a handsome youth standing within hearing.
Suddenly turning away, and musing as he went, Lieutenant Trevelyan was half angry at himself
for some slight betrayal of feeling which fortunately had not been detected.

As Lady Douglas was sitting in a corner, whither some of her guests had retired to rest from
the fatigue of the evening, a lady near ventured to exclaim, "What a noble looking young man
is Lieutenant Trevelyan! He has such a frank and honest face; besides, he is so kind and considerate.
Having heard so many kind allusions towards him from so many sources, I have a great interest
in his welfare. It is said that his father won distinction in the army."

"Yes," returned Lady Douglas, "I can remember his father when he really appeared not much older
and wore the same blushing countenance as our dear friend Guy."

"Ah, there he is," exclaimed one of the eager admirers.

At this moment the subject of their remarks led forth Lady Rosamond as his partner in the dance.

"What a charming couple," said one. "How striking the contrast of their dress," said another,
as the bright scarlet of Lieutenant Trevelyan's uniform reflected on the pure white satin of
Lady Rosamond's bodice, while the blue satin added a pretty effect.

"How happy he looks as he smiles upon his partner," said one of the group.

"Who could be unhappy in the presence of Lady Rosamond?" replied Lady Douglas.

"Pardon, your ladyship, but there are many here who feel the hidden pain caused by one look
or smile from her ladyship's lovely face." The speaker here lowered her voice, continuing:
"I cannot explain or account for the feeling which prompts me, but I really think that Lieutenant
Trevelyan is under the influence of those beautiful eyes, and really it would be the fondest
of my dreams realized, having in both seen much to admire."

"Mrs. B----," said Lady Douglas, in playful tones of reproof. "You really would be tempted
to become a match-maker?"

"Yes," replied the other, "if by any means I could further the present scheme."

"Lady Rosamond is indeed amiable and loveable, and worthy of a true and noble husband, while
Lieutenant Trevelyan is in every sense a gentleman worthy the fairest and best. It would grieve
me to see him rejected, yet, Lady Rosamond is not in a position to favor any suitor until she
returns to England."

While the preceding remarks were being made by the group in the corner, the totally unconscious
pair were apparently enjoying the music and dancing.

Lady Rosamond seemed in a sweet and uninterrupted dream of happiness, as she floated along
in the mazes of the waltz, supported by the strong and graceful arms of her admirable partner,
the young lieutenant. He likewise had his dreams, but of a different nature. He could not calmly
enjoy the present in firm defiance of the future. A hopeless uncertainty lay before, which
forbade approach. Lady Rosamond's reserve was a subject he dare not analyze. But the frankness
which won him friends and passport had come to his relief just at the moment when his partner
was most likely to chide with friendly courtesy. Both could look back to this evening during
the course of after years.

When various amusements had succeeded, interspersed with dancing, the climax was yet to be
reached. A grand surprise awaited. A tableaux was in preparation.

When the drawing-room was partially darkened the curtain rose, showing a simple background,
with two children of the family sleeping quietly in the foreground. Standing over them was
Helen Douglas; her hair fell over her shoulders. She wore a black dress, while a black lace
veil, spangled with gold stars, covered her from head to foot. With her arms extended she is
in the act of covering the sleeping children. A band of black, with silver crescent, on her
forehead, and stars on the band, added to the beauty of the lovely Helen, and formed a true
conception of the subject.

"Ah, the rogues," exclaimed Sir Howard; "how quietly they stole upon us."

Few failed to detect the word, showing a deep appreciation of the grace of Helen Douglas.

The second scene represented a parlor with a young girl in the foreground, having on her head
an old-fashioned hood. This character is assumed by Arabella Farnham, the daughter of an officer
retired from the service. Near the young lady stands a gentleman in the act of pulling off
the hood to see her face. On the opposite side is another young girl in the person of Mary
Douglas, in full evening dress, pointing to the hood, and laughing at its old and peculiar shape.

Much applause greeted the actors upon the success of these parts, but the crowning scene was
the third and last--the united terms of the preceding ones. The effect was grand beyond description.
The scene was supposed to be the great hall of Kenilworth, hung with silken tapestry, lit with
numerous torches. The odor of choicest perfumes fell upon the senses, while soft strains of
music floated in the distance. In the centre of the background forming this magnificent apartment
was a chair of state, with canopy in imitation of a throne, and covered with rich drapery,
on which is seated one personating Queen Elizabeth, whose smile is resting upon the courtly
form of Walter Raleigh, upon whom she is in the act of conferring knighthood. Grouped around
the throne are characters representing the Earls of Leicester, Essex, Oxford, Huntingdon, and
a train of lords and ladies, conspicuous among whom was the Duchess of Rutland, the favorite
maid of honor in Her Majesty's household. The character of Elizabeth was sustained by Lady
Rosamond, arrayed in queenly robes and blazing with jewels.

"She looks every inch a queen," exclaimed one of the spectators.

"The young knight's heart is in a dangerous situation," said another.

"Beware, Sir Walter," said a third; "Essex and Leicester are dangerous rivals, especially the
latter."

Kneeling with courtly grace was Lieutenant Trevelyan in the role of Sir Walter Raleigh. The
young officer had performed his part with that graceful ease which had so won the affection
of the great sovereign.

A slight shudder passed through the form of Lady Rosamond as she remembered his sad fate. Thinking
the present no time for boding ill-starred events, she hastily turned her mind from the subject.

As the Earl of Leicester, Captain Douglas was apparelled in white. The scabbard of his sword
was of white velvet and gold; his poniard and sword belt mounted with gold. Over he wore a
loose robe of white satin with broad collar richly embroidered in gold. Around his neck was
the golden collar of the garter, and around his knee the azure garter."[1] Truly was the costume
executed, and raised admiration warm and long sustained.

[Footnote 1: Leicester's description taken from Sir Walter Scott.]

Mr. Stanley, the son of an influential citizen, personated Sussex, who wore a purple velvet
doublet, lined with golden cloth, and a richly embroidered jerkin of the same color with broad
golden collar, black silk stockings and shoes of purple velvet. A richly ornamented girdle
and gold mounted sword completed the costume, being rich and elegant and next in splendour
to that of Leicester. The remaining nobles were dressed in courtly apparel and becoming the
scene. Mary Douglas was, it is needless to add, in the capacity of the favorite Duchess of
Rutland, the friend and confidante of Her Majesty. The whole had a beautiful effect and gave
additional eclat to the evening's series of entertainments.

When Lady Rosamond again joined the dance, she was playfully advised to act well the policy
of the character, by preserving towards the rival earls a well balanced line of judgment, and
concealing any strong attachment toward the knight of the cloak, to Squire Lack-Cloak, as Raleigh
was termed by the attendants at court.

Throughout the whole evening there was one who entered with heart and hand into the spirit
of such gaiety--one foremost in the dance, foremost at the whist table, and foremost in gay
and animating conversation. Notwithstanding those demands, there was another subject foremost
in the mind of His Excellency's private secretary. Mr. Howe was a man of the world, gay, fascinating
and striving to please. He had some faults, (and who has not?) but he had his good qualities
full as well. He had a generous nature--a heart that wished well to his fellow man, and above
all, his friends.

Since his arrival in New Brunswick, Mr. Howe had formed a strong attachment to his "boy friend,"
as he often designated the young lieutenant. Sir Howard was pleased with the fact and showed
every encouragement by allowing Guy Trevelyan full privilege in his household. There were on
several occasions within our notice, a troubled and half defined expression on the hitherto
radiant and joyous countenance of Guy Trevelyan. This fact had given much food for the mind
of the secretary. After a scrutinizing search and untiring effort the hidden secret revealed
itself in the bosom of Mr. Howe. He now possessed a secret that gave a secret pleasure by which
the true nature of human sympathy could assert itself. Thus musing, and overjoyed at his recent
success, Mr. Howe being reminded of the last dance, participated in the closing festivity celebrating
St. John's Eve.

CHAPTER VII.

THE DISCLOSURE.

Winter had far advanced; its reign of severity and pitiless defiance was near its end. Already
the genial days of joyous spring were heralded by a vigorous effort of the shrubs and plants
to show themselves in resistance to the tyrannizing sway of the ice-crowned monarch. An occasional
note from the returning songster was welcomed as the brightest harbinger of the truly delightful
season. Merry voices mingled in tones of deep gratitude as they once more sallied forth to
enjoy the pleasure of the woods.

None were more exultant than the inmates of Government House. From Sir Howard to the child
at the feet of Lady Douglas, all shared alike in the pleasure of anticipation. Foremost in
gleeful demonstration was the pioneer Johnnie, who danced and sang in the enjoyment of his
native element--light and sunshine. Every hour that could be laid aside for this purpose was
equal to a fortune.

But our young friend was no miser in this respect. Every available guest must be in readiness
to join the incorrigible Johnnie when bent on his excursions. All stood on equal rights. Youth
and age were all in the same order of classification. It was a remarkable trait of Johnnie's
character that denials were not considered as sufficient excuse for delinquency on the part
of any favored with invitations, and, in consequence, all made a point of being in readiness.

A bright Saturday morning had been arranged for one of those expeditions. April showers had
already been the means of bringing forth flowers (if not May flowers), only to be found by
the penetrating eyes of "Trapper Johnnie," as some of the more mischievous urchins had dared
to designate their leader.

When, on the auspicious moment, at the marshalling of the clan, two had dared to break the
rules, so strictly laid down, surprise was momentarily visible on many faces.

Lady Rosamond, the next in importance to Johnnie, had pleaded inability to attend, with a desire
to retain her friend and companion. There was something in the pleading and beautiful eyes
of Lady Rosamond that drove vexation at a respectful distance, and welcomed, in its stead,
a feeling akin to sympathy within the heart of the manly boy. True chivalric dignity asserted
itself in every form when necessity demanded. Her ladyship instantly received permission to
remain, with a generous grace that made Johnnie a true hero in the estimation of his fair suppliant.

"Accept this favor, Sir Knight, as a token of the sincerity of your lady," said Lady Rosamond,
stepping forward with a knot of pale blue silk in her hand.

With the brave gallantry of a Douglas, our hero knelt at the feet of her ladyship, and, receiving
the favor, in graceful recognition kissed the fair hand that placed it there.

"Well done, my boy!" cried Sir Howard, who had been watching the ceremony from an open window,
whence he had heard all that passed, and the circumstances which led to it; "you have already
shown that spirit which I hope will always characterize my children."

After the picnickers had departed Lady Rosamond and Mary Douglas returned to the house, where
they were met by Lady Douglas.

"My child, are you ill to-day?" said her ladyship; "you are unusually pale, while your eyes
have a wearied look."

"I do not feel quite well this morning," returned Lady Rosamond, languidly.

"You need rest, my dear, after the fatigue of last evening; too much gaiety does not bring
a bloom to my Rosamond," said her ladyship, kissing the pale cheek of the lovely girl, adding:
"My dear, you must retire to your room, while I prepare a gentle sedative."

Lady Rosamond did retire. She also received the cooling draught from the fair hand of Lady
Douglas, whose kindness shone in administering to the wants of others.

Poor Lady Rosamond's rest could not be gained by the simple sedative.

Physical ailments are not the worst form of suffering that afflict humanity. Lady Rosamond
was enduring a mental conflict that was crushing in its intensity. The more she tried to baffle
its power the more forcibly did it affect her. Vainly had she struggled within herself for
aid, but no response. Faint hope dawned in the form of appeal. She now resolved to go to her
dear companion with all her trials and tale of suffering. At intervals this hope died away,
but in the end gained the mastery. It was this resolve that kept Lady Rosamond from joining
in the festive train that set off that morning. It was this resolve that detained Mary Douglas
as well. It was this resolve that bade Lady Rosamond to seek the quiet of her chamber preparatory
to the trying disclosure.

Lady Douglas little divined the cause of those pale cheeks, as she ascribed them to the recent
fatigue of an evening.

With heavy heart Lady Rosamond prepared for the reception of her confidante. A most beautiful
picture is presented to the imagination in those lovely girls sitting side by side the arm
of Mary Douglas around her companion.

"Mary, my love," began Lady Rosamond, "I have often longed for this moment, but could not summon
the courage which the occasion demands."

"Rosamond, you startle me by your earnestness," said the former with deep surprise, dropping
the title, as familiar companions, at the suggestion of her ladyship.

"Have patience, my darling; you shall hear it only too soon."

Between sighs and sobs Lady Rosamond told the whole history of her troubles--the letter and
its stern proposal--not forgetting her father's kindness and his great love for her; "but oh!"
she continued, "he cannot realize the depths of my misery."

"My poor darling," said Mary Douglas, with great tears dimming her beautiful eyes, "why did
you thus suffer in silence? Can it be possible that you can have passed the long winter with
such a weight upon your heart, my darling Rosamond?"

"Ah, my Mary," replied her ladyship, "I hope that you may never know how much the heart can
bear, or how much woman, in her uncomplaining nature, may suffer. If I could only learn 'to
suffer and be strong'--in that source lies my weakness. I am only one of the many thousands
of my sex who have had such struggles. I do not wish to shirk the duty imposed on me, but if
more strength were given me to bear it."

Mary Douglas sat in silence for some moments, as if waiting a sufficient reply. She knew her
friend's disposition too well to venture any advice that would require a third person's knowledge
of the matter. Gladly would she have referred it to her father or mother, but the idea gave
no relief.

"Rosamond, my darling, if I could afford your mind instantaneous relief I would gladly do so,
if even at a very great sacrifice. Of one thing rest assured--you have my service in any way
that you wish to command me; besides, you have my sympathy and interest for life. It may be
that I can slightly alleviate your sorrow. Can I not propose some plan in the future to re-arrange
those affairs which at present seemed so irrevocably fixed? Kings have made laws to be broken
when the cause demanded retribution. Darling, be more hopeful--trust in Providence and do the
right--in the end you will be happy. Let me read your horoscope:--dark clouds within the visible
horizon, succeeded by bright stars in ascension--hope and joy without fail."

A spirit of inspiration seemed to shine upon the face of Mary Douglas as she read her companion's
future.

A smile lit up the features of Lady Rosamond.

"Thank heaven, darling, for that smile," said the gifted daughter of Sir Howard, throwing her
arms around the sorrowing girl and kissing her affectionately.

Lady Rosamond felt happier and more encouraged from the fact of having such consolation and hope.

Mary Douglas had shed a ray of comfort in one unhappy heart. She knew not the load which was
thus removed.

Lady Rosamond clung to those kind words with a fond pertinacity: not only the words, but the
manner in which they were uttered.

Some evenings after the preceding interview had taken place, Sir Howard, Lady Douglas and family
were assembled in the drawing room. Miss Douglas was seated at the piano, while Miss Mary Douglas
sang the song so dear to every Scottish heart--Highland Mary. Lady Douglas listened to the
melodies of her native land with heartfelt admiration. She loved to cultivate such taste on
the part of her daughters. None could give a more perfect rendition of Scotch music and poetry
than they.

When Miss Douglas sang "The Winter is Past," another of Burn's melodies, Mary Douglas fancied
she saw the beautifully chiselled lips of Lady Rosamond tremulous with emotion. The first verse
ran thus:

   "The Winter is past, and the Summer's come at last,
      And the little birds sing on every tree;
    Now everything is glad, while I am very sad,
      Since my true love is parted from me."

The finely cultivated voice of the singer entered fully into the spirit of the song, giving
both expression and effect as she sang the last verse:

    "All you that are in love and cannot it remove,
       I pity the pains you endure:
     For experience makes me know that your hearts are full of woe,
       A woe that no mortal can cure."

"One would judge that my sister had some experience, if we take the face as an index of the
mind," said Captain Douglas, in playful badinage directed towards his favorite sister, who
in reality did have an experience, but not of her own.

She felt the blow thus unconsciously dealt at Lady Rosamond. Luckily for the latter, the coincidence
thus passed over without any betrayal of feelings. In Mary Douglas was a firm and watchful
ally. In her were reflected the feelings which passed unobserved in Lady Rosamond, or attributed
to absence from home, separation from familiar faces, or clinging memories of the past. Another
great source of protection lay in the composition of the character of the gifted ally.

Mary Douglas was possessed of a temperament most keenly sensitive to the finest perception
of poetic feeling. Life to her was music and poetry. A beautiful picture either called forth
joy or sorrow; a pathetic song thrilled her soul with well timed vibrations of feeling; a touching
story brought tears to those lovely eyes, that would move one with pity. Thus was concealed
the sympathy for Lady Rosamond, as none would sacrilegiously question those motives save in
playful reminder from Captain Douglas, who bowed in fond adoration to the shrine of his sister's
loveliness and goodness. 

Not killed by it, but Werther was the price of his redemption and his life. Poetry saved him. That
tremendous and passionate novel, rather than the poet Goethe is always objective, that is put
out of his work, judging and sentencing her characters without sharing their losses, The move leaving
him still, as the first heaven moves the other areas, also contains its protagonist to another Goethe,
passionate and vehement, that Goethe achieved critical and severe stop at the edge of the abyss.

In
other friendly or loving relationships with women, Goethe always
shows passion, not calculation; fire and not cold, tenderness and
unselfishness.

The teacher's wife reproached him his youthful Boehme compositions, amend and pruned mercilessly,
and was persuaded after they were bad and made him burn. What power and authority must not exercise
a woman on a poet to force a sacrifice? Schönkopf Catalina broke with Goethe, not the cold
but because tormented with jealousy. Ana Isabel Sohönmann Goethe inspires the beautiful compositions
A Lili and perhaps it is she who leaves him. The Baroness of Goethe gave Stein a spiritual worship
of friendship and esteem, and, since all the enjoyment of her celebrity made her a judge of merit of
their works and some inspiring. Finally, if Goethe was fascinated by Cristiana Volpius, and lived
together with her immoral and scandalous, amended after the offense, getting married. His
idea Love, coupled with the duty of the holy life and respectable home, and everything beautiful
that can enclosed in two stocks humble and honest, remains forever in the purest romances, in
his poem Hermann and Dorothea, which also left us a sincere expression of German patriotism, then
severely humiliated by the Napoleonic conquests.

We have said that does not concern us write here the life of Goethe.

Suffice it quickly pointed to dispel unfounded blame.

Give him worship his clear intelligence and its other powers, but should not be censored applaud.
It is a duty to take care of the talents that God entrusts to us. Otherwise, no gain nothing
for them or dispel them badly, is an act of ingratitude and betrayal of trust.

Goethe was able to fulfill this duty required intellectual garments. His insatiable always arouses
curiosity led him to study and learn everything: fine arts, literature how many people have had
it or have it, life sciences, theology, philosophy and even magic
and other occult sciences.

His mind was enriched with all sorts of knowledge.

And not only studied and learned in books, but in the bosom of nature and the revolt current
of human life.

His long life, his untiring activity, his inexhaustible fertility make the whole his work is
great and varied. It was a lyric poet, epic, dramatic and didactic novelist philosopher, botanist,
zoologist, philologist, author of letters and memoirs, works of aesthetic
and archeology, and just seems to be a subject on which not to leave
something written.

The Naturalists will always be placed in very high place to write the annals of science; and
philosophers to write their own history, they can not be forgotten.

Goethe followed with deep penetration and with keen interest the great
philosophical movement, which verified in Germany during his lifetime.

Preserving their independence, appropriated ideas about and others, as more suited to the nature
of his thought, but coordinating them in it, and giving them the unique stamp of his person.

On the dazzling spell of any new system, from Kant to Hegel, Goethe
put his critically high, its judicious skepticism a so-called common
sense, because more was rare and exquisite, some Leibnizian theories
and a deep-rooted religious feelings never so much season left in
disbelief, and so much fermentation and flourish new metaphysical.

Goethe believed in God, but his natural inclination led him to seek, not the center of soul, but
pouring out the soul in nature, where God revealed to him. It was therefore more Theosophist
than mystical. That tended more toward the doctrines of Bruno, of Spinoza, and Schelling,
who to those of Fichte, but in the same way that did not stir up sensationalism never, until
think that the reality of things and the impression they make on us can be to give science, common
sense also agreed never to give credence to the creation of reality for the ideal. Supports
both, and vaguely enters on a method called empiricism intellectual
intuition which exercises the office of the observation of the sensual
and idealistic speculation.

Hegel attracts and repels at the same time our poet. I love the eternal development of the idea,
and his conscience rejects perpetual change, and thought it came from and born most of the least
conscious of the unconscious, being not-being. To affirm their mind the existence of a personal
God and the immortality of the soul, returns with a love of monads
of Leibnitz.

God appears to him the eternal and infinite cute. The human soul, a monad upper and indestructible,
but limited.

The moral of Goethe is too lenient, but not for relaxation but for
goodness itself, and firm belief in the divine goodness and human
frailty.

Goethe's God is soft, indulgent and benign, and sometimes almost a merit of the error in the man who
errs, it errs on that sucks.

Pacific, a lover of order, enemy of rudeness, every revolution an event like Goethe awesome. The
horrors of France is outraged and terrified.

And yet, this conservative, this friend of the legitimate powers and fair, has faith in freedom and progress,
and includes the rebellion against tyranny and believes in no time from any government tyrannical
and violent.

His thirst for religion is great and perpetual. It creates a natural
religion and not enough.

Without faith in Christianity, dreams of new positive religion. Maybe pretend intermediate monads
among which are human souls and that is God, and these cuties go geniuses, elemental spirits,
demiurge, mysterious and hidden intelligences which move the stars, who give life to plants,
which are the very nature of personality and consciousness.

Sometimes leans Goethe this path to a flamboyant neo-Platonism and spiritualized paganism, sometimes
becomes forward in faith to the doctrine of Christ and the Gospels and read earnestly pious books.

His
doctrines on aesthetics, according to its basic philosophy with the natural condition v of
his mind, have no small claim in the history of this new science,
and prepare major reform and the development Schiller conducted under
the auspices and according to the footsteps of Kant.

Diderot and Winkelmann are the two authors who exert influence on the theories of Goethe art,
and have more to do with them. Goethe owes more, however, with their own feelings and thinking,
enlightened, since his trip to Italy, by the intelligent and earnest contemplation of the artistic
treasures and privileged in that beautiful country is preserved.

Goethe, who at first had been romantic, like the romance was then understood in their nation, and
as shown by his two major works written before going to Italy, Werther and Berlichingen Goetz
returned from there completely classical, but classic their way, and not with the sensuality
of French classicism. Its classicism is a term midway between the fashionable in France, and the new
German romanticism, while more informed high ideas that do not compromise, but synthesis.

Goethe does not want mere imitation, nor pure fantasy and freedom,
but both powers linked, each of which exercises born one way, while
the union of two appropriate style.

By imitating himself, called imitator, who invented without imitating, ghost. The true artist
and poet, are those who invent imitation.

The characteristic, which should enter any work of art, gives the imitation is like the skeleton,
the frame or canvas of the work, and life, muscles, blood, color, embroidery, then come by fantasy.
The combination of these things is born beauty. Meticulous artist, cartoonist and mean dry is
one that mimics only: report author sketches the only fantasize:
perfection lies in fantasizing and copy at a time.

In the beauty of nature is diffuse and mixed germ, is also itching, as desire to be increasingly
clean and completely.

It must remove the artist, choosing the best and ugly aside, but even given this extracting
operation, the beauty is not created, but it embodies and individually in a sensitive way.
The aspiration of the artist and poet's ideal, but ideal individual must be the same time. The
purpose of art is to represent all in one, and express the infinite in finite form.

Goethe rejected, under this doctrine, the doctrine, the division,
then as in fashion of Christian and pagan art.

For him there is more than an art, whose fund, whose substance for infinite and sublime I would
assume, must enter and comply with number and extent and accuracy and precision within a limited
and individual.

Imitation looking through the things the main idea, the original idea, which they impurely done,
and art should be the most pure. In this sense artistically superior to nature. It is also because
of the artistic moves away everything irrelevant and insignificant in nature is mixed. Moreover,
for Goethe Art has its own end: the creation of beauty. It is true that in this creation is implied
an end, moral and social, very useful and beneficial, what Aristotle
called purification of passion: what Goethe called the rescue, redemption
or freedom.

It is evident that the characteristic, which is taken by imitating nature, can and often be painful
passion, action-packed mayhem and grief, which in reality hurts, wounds, kills or pain, rather
than causing pleasure. Art, to reproduce and to transform, change in contentment bitterness and
despair becalmed. So terror and pity become feeling happy, full of
ineffable sweetness.

This change is due to start softening of beauty, grace, symmetry, order and measure of form.
Hence, for Goethe, the ideal type of art in sculpture, was not Apollo, but the Laocoon, where pain,
compassion, and horror are softened by the grace of beauty, to the point trocar in sovereign
and peaceful enjoyment.

Under this principle, Goethe unfortunate release of their passions, memories that brought him more grief,
desires most tormented him and even his remorse, taking them for the object of his observation,
making them a matter of imitation, looking at them the characteristic, and going after the
powerful imagination to embroider on that trace first a poem, a legend or a drama, a work of
poetry, which left him comforted and free, and should have over other men the same beneficent influence
exerted on him.

In this sense it could secure and Goethe said that all his works of imagination were fragments
of their confessions. It was therefore subjective poet, if attended to, by declaration own, no one
of his fables, which is not part of his autobiography, and objective that he himself gave as
an object of observation, and with another independent self, created work, judged and condemned
to their heroes, and acquitted at the end or at least comforting balm heaven, with wonderful
soothing poetic beauty.

This soothing and cleansing under art beautiful or sublimating is achieved when the object of passion
or action, provided to be sublimated or beautiful.

When not supplied, the art is another resource: the comic or the ridiculous. For example, a
belly ache or toothache, the simplicity that is left cheat, fear not having enough money, illness,
being ugly and sickly and other things in the same order, have no poetry, no more comfort than
laughter, while not pass of lower degree. When you go in that grade, and played in the tragedy,
are poor representations artistic, because they are passions, defects
and doped pains not to embellish.

No produce and the comic, no less pathetic, but the deformed and nasty and disgusting; realism
deplorable that today have the drama and the novel. Nothing further from the true poetry the
hungry, the beggar, the consumptive or hunchback. These are impurities of the real, poetry or
tragic or the comic can find comfort. Us seek comfort in charity, and the remedy in science,
so far as possible.

Such, in brief, was the man, and such the main items of the man who conceived and produced FAUSTO
poem.

FAUSTO the idea of ​​always accompanied him, was a major concern of his life. Its realization understands
full well his whole life. Goethe in his first youth begins to write Faust, in his extreme old age,
eighty years, when he finished, or rather, not End time: even after his death leaves pieces,
Chronicles, which belong to Faust, who are part of the great posthumous poem.

Goethe the same energy to get rid of his characters, although out
of his own and to be passionate and moving, he remained impassive
and serene, I did prefer the narrative poem, a more objective, impersonal
yet perfect: the drama.

In the drama the vanishes completely poet's personality. The characters just feel, suffer, move and carry
out the action.

Dramas understanding, as the epics of which we speak to begin with, it had already given in history
of poetry.

What else was the Prometheus of Aeschylus, Goethe sought the to write back and actually wrote
pieces that remarkable?

Furthermore, regardless of material difficulties, counting stagehand and painter with exuberant
designer and flying imagination building within the limitless space an ideal theater, where fit heaven,
hell and all creation, and provide a company of actors, where there are angels, devils, mermaids,
elves, Oberon, Titania, Ariel, Olympian gods, gods underground, all
the blessed of the heavenly court, the Eternal Father, the Virgin
Mary, witches, monkeys and cats, and even stars, rivers, mountains,
and earthquakes that speech and action, Strait dramatic picture expands
to fill the immensity and everything fits in it comfortably.

This does not mean, however, that Faust, as a whole, is so large that can not be represented. Even
to read is difficult. The synthesis of the work is not covered as well as you want. Let us imagine
Olio a table at half a league long. It would be necessary, or see him from afar with a telescope,
RIEF walking or on horseback, at full gallop, to preserve the impression of what had painted
on one end when the other end is reached.

Do not be surprised, then, that waver on the method we have to continue
to give an idea of FAUSTO, and finally we decide to do a split.

Consider first the drama Faust as simple as human drama, that is, not see in him but the first half,
discarding anything that justifies it, calls and requires the creation the second. And let's
talk after the second part, and everything that makes FAUSTO a mysterious poem, encyclopedic and philosophical
claims or archi-deep realities.

From now on we will close all books, FAUSTO least the same, and to issue our Apparently, without being
guided by anyone. Let us just say that the views of critics are diverse and even found, and
that foreigners are often the most enthusiastic commended the second part, as Blaze de Bury
and Lerminier, while some critics and historians German German literature, of great note, such
as Gervinus and Kurz, no estimate the second part, reaching out to an unjust severity with her,
and even see it fall. Comparing Goethe Milton, say the first is the second FAUSTO FAUSTO what
Paradise Lost to Paradise regained.

Adopting, for now, the comparison, let's start with Paradise Lost.

Goethe did not invent the good sense and character matter for drama: the people gave created.
The legend of Faust was popular not only in Germany but in other European countries. His sets and
adventures were depicted in puppet theaters, fairs and markets, and loved the people. Assert
poets had already tasted the case and the legendary character, and had tried to write or had
written dramas on FAUSTO. Lessing had left the illustrious started a FAUSTO, in drama.

If we ignore the name and the historical foundation of the character,
that is the center of the legend, the legend is still much more popular,
oldest and best known and applauded in all the towns Christians. No
nation in Europe where there is no history scholar who is tired of
studying without honor or profit, to deny knowledge, which does not
give you enjoyment, and that excited by rage, by disappointments,
by ambition or thirst of delight, just do pact with the devil, to
have fun and have money, and what we now call position, although then
have to pay it all in the depths of hell. Sage, in effect, sports
worship the devil that serves him well: and finally, through the intercession
of a saint, or goodness the Virgin Mary, or the infinite mercy of
God, mocked the enemy often leaves bad and manages to go to heaven.
In our literature we have this legend in Las Cantigas of King Alonso,
and Gonzalo Berceo, and something like that gives matter to Calderon
for his famous comedy The prodigious magical.

The issue was very
well chosen and could not be better for Goethe, who was a sage as
Faust, and that while more fortunate, have had, like all scientists,
not a few moments of bitterness in that despair of pedants, and wanting
to teach others what they themselves do not know, and doubt the worth
and utility of his writings, and exclaim mimicking Doña Mariquita
pearls .-- If I cry, that is, if I had money, would not need to write
nonsense, - and are in addition often prompted to be the devil if
the devil you take the trouble to take them and buy the soul.

While absent on this errand of mercy, a sad misfortune befell the inmates of Government House.
On the 19th of September their home was wrapped in devouring elements of flame, being almost
entirely consumed.

It is on such occasions that the nobler side of our nature asserts its true dignity and shows
qualities that otherwise would remain in obscurity. Lady Douglas, with calm and dignified composure,
prepared her family to realize the situation, and with heroic firmness persisted in rescuing
nearly all the valuables within Government House. The great assistance rendered by the citizens
in their indefatigable labors, showed the unbounded and grateful respect borne towards this
distinguished family. Every one was ready to offer aid. The daughters of Lady Douglas reflected
her ladyship's cool intrepidity.

With tears in her eyes, Mary Douglas viewed the smoking mass where she had passed so many happy
hours. Captain Charles Douglas, knowing well the tenor of his sister's poetic nature, kindly
and encouragingly exclaimed, "Never mind, Mary dear; thank heaven no lives are lost. We will
soon be united." Those simple words had the desired effect. The tender hearted maiden at once
saw the ingratitude of her murmurs, and felt deeply thankful for her brother's gentle reproof.

Lady Rosamond, if possible, had stronger claims upon the heart of Mary Douglas and the entire
household. She had wrought with a determination to do what she could--aye, more than she could.
On being advised by Charles Douglas to desist, she firmly replied, "Not until everything is
done that I can do."

A young officer, who happened to hear these words, received them as a valuable souvenir years
afterwards, realizing their true worth.

It was, indeed, a most remarkable circumstance that so much valuable furniture and perishable
articles were saved. One act of recklessness to be regretted was the cutting down of a valuable
chandelier which, falling with a heavy crash, was shivered in a thousand pieces.

In a few days Lady Douglas and family sought shelter among their friends, from whom they received
the strongest proofs of kindness. To a lady friend in England her ladyship writes: "The sympathy
and real kindness received from the citizens of Fredericton I can never forget. The fire proved
that the old adage, though homely, is a true one--'a friend in need is a friend indeed.'"

When Sir Howard returned, and was once more received in his family, he felt grateful to Providence
for His kind deliverance. No vain or useless repinings marked the course of his conduct. With
renewed energy this man of indomitable courage was again immersed in the public weal as well
as the re-establishing of his family in comfortable quarters. A large and commodious building
on King street, the property of Henry Smith, Esq.,[2] was now being prepared for the reception
of His Excellency. The Government expended a considerable sum in making the necessary improvements,
and within a very short time the citizens of Fredericton had the pleasure of seeing their beloved
ruler and his family once more situated in a happy home. But Sir Howard was to face more terrific
and threatening dangers. His unbounded sympathies had further and unlimited room for exercise.

[Footnote 2: The house at present occupied by Chief Justice Allen.]

October came, attended by the long continued drought. Gloom was depicted on every side. Many
conjectures were afloat regarding the vicinity of the fire, which gave evidence of its existence
in the density of smoke that filled the atmosphere.

In the midst of this impending danger, on the 7th October, a fire broke out in the woods surrounding
"The Hermitage," the residence of the Hon. Thomas Baillie, on the Government House road. Here
the forethought of Sir Howard was exhibited with unequalled prudence, having every available
engine and means of succor close at hand. By great exertions the house was saved. Danger still
lurked in the woods. Within an hour an alarm was given in the city. Sir Howard was the first
on the spot, having ridden furiously his spirited and favorite steed. Engines were again in
quick action, while the military were only a short distance behind, being ordered up at the double.

The scene was terrific. High winds blew the fire from one building to the next, until the third
part of the city was a mountain of flame--cracking, roaring, tremendous in its fury. Water
was kept up in constant streams, having but little effect. Many sat down and cried in their
frantic emotion. Hundreds of families without home, food, or clothing.

In the midst of this sickening sight was one whose very presence lifted a weight from the hearts
of the sad and homeless. Sir Howard never once deserted his post--working, encouraging, and
aiding. By his advice the fire was stayed--two-thirds of the town still remaining. The stifling
air and glowing heavens made the hearts of many grow sick and faint.

Perhaps it would be wiser to end the tale of misery here, but as the chapter would seem incomplete,
it may be necessary to make slight allusion to a wilder and more terrible fire.

The consummation of terror, madness, and dismay, depicted in its most awful form, would fail
to do justice to this sickening calamity--the Miramichi fire.

The forests, for hundreds of miles in every direction, were one solid mass of living fire,
roaring louder than thunder; in its fury shaking the bowels of the earth and leaping up to
the heavens which seemed, also, to be enveloped in flames. Nothing more awful will be witnessed
until the judgment day. Many were of opinion that the time was at hand when "the heavens and
earth shall melt away." Hundreds lost their lives, while property was destroyed to an immense
amount.

An ordinary mind would have sunk under the weight of grievances that pressed on all sides;
but Sir Howard Douglas rose above the situation. With Spartan firmness and unswerving courage
he set about raising means for the distressed by subscription, both at home and abroad, in
money, food, and clothing. Letters were sent to all parts of America, England, and Ireland.
Not thus content, Sir Howard went himself to visit burnt districts where man or beast could
scarcely penetrate, climbing over miles of fallen brushwood. Those poor creatures tried to
show their gratitude by words, but were unable. Their tears were a more gracious tribute than
jewels--being the grateful offering of a stricken community. Their benefactor had conveyed
provision for their sustenance, and clothing for their wives and families. Many were the fervent
prayers offered for their noble-hearted and humane ruler, and none more gratefully acknowledged
these than he.

Much more might be told in connection with those sad events, but as the details might not be
acceptable to the reader, therefore we refrain.

Once more gathered in their home, the family of Sir Howard were not inactive. The spirit of
charity was manifest in every action of those lovely girls. Mary Douglas and Lady Rosamond
had formed a sewing circle, to which they invited some of their young acquaintances. In this
charitable employment they spent many hours. Clothing was made and distributed with increasing
demand. The severity of winter caused many poor people to look for assistance in every possible
form. Gaiety was for a time forgotten. Festive parties and sumptuous array were set aside for
the necessities of the season.

It is a well established fact that the miseries of others often alleviate our own. To none
could this application be more forcible than Lady Rosamond. In her bitterness of heart she
experienced a quiet relief in assisting her companions to provide clothing for the sufferers.
The scenes through which she had passed counterbalanced the feelings she had hitherto experienced
and taught her gentle resignation. Her thoughts were of a more serious nature--a source whence
she derived much comfort. Her parent's views were unaltered; her hopes were no brighter in
the distant future, but, as afterwards expressed, she had more strength given her from the
bitter trials of suffering humanity.

As Christmas drew nigh the inmates of Government House could not resist a desire to look back
to the joyous season which they had passed in the home now laid low, its surrounding woods,
their pleasant excursions, and the extensive preparations in decorating for the festive scenes
that followed.

Pioneer Johnnie was loud in regrets for the apparent neglect which the sylvan deities must
naturally feel by his temporary absence from their select and stately assemblages.

"Keep up your spirits, Master Johnnie," once remarked Lady Rosamond, "the next time we go back
the trees will recognize the compliment with music and grateful homage."

"As none but you and Lady Rosamond regret being turned out, I presume," exclaimed Charles Douglas,
who was always ready to join any conversation that afforded amusement. He continued passing
careless jokes until the clock in the hall reminded him of his business.

"Really, Lady Rosamond, I credit you with driving away dull care and my forfeiting all claims
to the future good will of my friend Howe by disregarding his message. Pardon me, ladies, for
having almost forgotten to say that the sleigh will be in readiness in half an hour."

"Half an hour," exclaimed Mary Douglas, somewhat hastily, "really, Charles, I cannot pardon
you for such neglect, as it sadly interferes with my plans."

"Come, little one, frowns do not become thy brow," returned Captain Douglas, kissing the forehead
of his sister.

"That is much prettier," said he, pointing to the smiling face which in turn rested upon him.

Taking up a book which lay open beside the seat hitherto occupied by Lady Rosamond, Captain
Douglas commenced to read some lines from Tennyson, when accosted by his companion, Mr. Howe:

"You seem to be taking things very cool, old fellow. Where are the ladies?"

"They are getting ready; come in while we are waiting."

"This is your fault again, Douglas. It is past the hour, and a large party awaits us," said
Mr. Howe impatiently.

"Better late than never," vociferated Captain Douglas, as he went out singing, quickly returning
with Mary Douglas and Lady Rosamond.

"It is all Charles' fault," said the former, by way of explanation.

"Ha, ha, ha," laughed Captain Douglas, "I knew this was coming, but I must be as jolly as I can."

"Your ladyship is under my protection," said the incorrigible delinquent, offering his arm
to Lady Rosamond, while Mary Douglas was assigned to the companionship of the private secretary.

"This is indeed a merry party," said Lady Rosamond to her gallant, as he placed her beside
him and wrapped the daintily lined robes around her.

"I am half inclined to be angry with Trevelyan," said Mr. Howe, turning around in his seat
and facing Captain Douglas.

"What are your grounds?" questioned the latter.

"Enough to justify my declaration," said the former, apparently looking at Captain Douglas,
but in reality casting sidelong glances at Lady Rosamond.

What did he seek there? Did jealousy cause that stolen glance? What was the motive? These important
questions certainly deserve some attention, which, in justice to Mr. Howe and the parties concerned,
and last, but not least, the reader, this concession must be granted.

As admitted, the private secretary of Sir Howard Douglas entertained a warm friendship towards
Lieutenant Trevelyan, treating him with the tenderness of a younger brother. Being constantly
thrown in the society of each other, there was much to be learned on both sides. That the young
lieutenant returned this friendship he took no pains to conceal, knowing that in Mr. Howe he
had an interested friend and adviser. For some time in the past the keen eye of the former
detected a sudden strange and half concealed manner possessing his young friend, which completely
puzzled him: Various conjectures presented themselves, but all unsatisfactory and vague. Still
further watch was kept upon the actions of Guy Trevelyan, but nothing appeared to solve the
difficult problem. An opportunity at last rewarded this perseverance. As explained in a preceding
chapter, one side of mysterious question was solved without any effort or seeking the on the
part of any one. By a mere accident Mr. Howe learned the cause which had so deeply influenced
the course of Guy Trevelyan's actions, and, furthermore, his feelings. Here was something gained:
did it bode good or evil to the young lieutenant?

These were questions that revolved themselves in the mind of the reasoner. Gladly would he
do anything that would further the interest of his young friend, yet there might be a likelihood
of stretching this prerogative if it in anywise interfered with the direct affairs of another.
Whichever view of the matter was taken difficulty arose on every hand.

Let us hasten to the main point of the argument. That Lieutenant Trevelyan loved Lady Rosamond
with a pure and ardent love was a matter beyond doubt. She was the ruling passion that influenced
every action, guarded or unguarded. It was this knowledge that now gave the secretary so much
perplexity. He entertained towards Lady Rosamond a kind and friendly regard; he was willing
to serve her under any ordinary circumstances and in any friendly capacity. In the present
instance Lady Rosamond was under the charge and protection of Lady Douglas, who would be, in
a measure, responsible for any attachment thus formed while she remained her guest. On this
point were many conscientious scruples to be overcome, which did not meet the approval of that
course of honor which had hitherto characterized Mr. Howe's principles and actions. He must
not sacrifice these even at the great risk of gaining the happiness of a young and respected
friend.

But the sight of the young lieutenant pleaded more eloquently than the most glowing and pathetic
language. His thoughtful eyes, his pure white forehead, and clustering ringlets of chestnut
hair, had a wealth of appeal hidden beneath, conveying more subtle beauty than the production
of the countless volumes of mystic ages. Thus situated, the secretary felt the awkwardness
of his position. It was not curiosity that prompted; it was a secret influence which the young
lieutenant inspired--an influence that held the former bound and enchained with no means of
escape at hand.

CHAPTER X.

THE INTERVIEW.

In a small but handsome reception room adjoining the library of Bereford Castle sat its stately
mistress, with an impatient and eager look upon her countenance. Trifling with a pretty trinket
which she has in her hand, her ladyship is apparently ill at ease. Something has given cause
for annoyance and grave deliberation. An anxious and hasty glance towards the door, shows that
a visitor is momentarily awaited.

Taking advantage of these moments, I will occupy them in dilating upon a few of the qualities
and characteristics of the distinguished occupant. Lady Bereford was a woman of shrewdness
and capacity, possessing a subtle weight of influence that bore with irresistible force, and
was stoutly prepared to resist an opposing element in any quarter. The daughter of a London
barrister of considerable reputation, her ladyship dwelt with pride upon her fond preference
for the legal profession. Her conversation was frequently interspersed with learned remarks,
savoring of the inner temple, its dingy courts, volumes of dust and musty manuscripts. "Evidence
and proof" were leading points always at hand. Caution was the inevitable watchword, based
upon a scrutinizing and at times heartless penetration. In short, the character of Lady Bereford
might be summed up in a few words--as a cool, clever and calculating woman of the world--one
not to be baffled by ordinary circumstances. On the present occasion her eye has a fire in
its depths that brooks no interference. Her brows are knotted with an angry frown; as she raises
them hastily, the frown has departed. The small and still plump white hand is extended. Sir
Thomas Seymour bows very low, receives the hand, kissing the tips of the taper fingers, is
seated in an elegantly embroidered fauteuil opposite her ladyship.

After the usual pleasantries had passed, Sir Thomas commenced by way of explanation:

"Your ladyship will pardon this detention, from the fact of my being absent when your note
arrived. Business demanding my presence at the admiralty office I was unavoidably detained
for some days. On arriving yesterday I immediately telegraphed the fact to Lord Bereford, but
hope that the present misfortune will not seriously interfere with any of your ladyship's plans."

Assuming an air of much importance, her ladyship began; "When I addressed you, it was merely
in the form of a note, not wishing to convey a subject of such importance to paper, deeming
that it demanded your personal attention. I fully exonerate you by the ready response as shown
at this instance."

This remark Sir Thomas politely acknowledged with a deep bow, while a shade of uneasiness was
visible upon his features.

With another assuming air to gain, if possible, a more wise and legal manner, her ladyship
thus resumed: "Sir Thomas, you must certainly be aware of my motives in thus requesting an
interview. You cannot be insensible to the fact that it entirely concerns the Lady Rosamond."

Here Sir Thomas became somewhat agitated, but her ladyship continued: "Strictly speaking, it
concerns both families, as how can it apply to the former without a direct application to Gerald
Bereford, in which case is involved that of his connexions."

Sir Thomas felt the necessity of waiving those points of nicety, but knowing too well that
any interference would entail a more definite investigation, listened with utmost composure
in the hope of instant relief.

With the stem gravity of a learned judge, ready to pronounce sentence upon the culprit arraigned,
her ladyship in graver tone continued: "I cannot but admit that the matter has given me very
great annoyance. I again refer to Lady Rosamond."

The affair, at each mention of the latter, assumed a graver importance, while Sir Thomas inwardly
struggled to maintain a studied demeanor as becoming the grave occasion.

"You are possibly not aware of the position in which her ladyship is being placed by this temporary
separation from her family?" ventured Lady Bereford, with full interrogative force that at
length afforded an opportunity to Sir Thomas.

"The matter," returned he, "has never given me any serious apprehensions, and, pardon me, I
must confess to your ladyship that there seem no apparent grounds for any. Lady Rosamond has
been made acquainted with our views regarding Gerald, and knowing this, I have too much confidence
in her nature to harbor a thought that she will either, in word or action, entertain a wish
in opposition to that of a fond and solicitous parent."

"I admit that Lady Rosamond is indeed a worthy and dutiful daughter; yet, pardon me, there
are many little undesirable and inconsistent fancies which, in the waywardness of youth, are
ready to take form in the tender and susceptible nature of a young girl, and which, if not
constantly watched, assume a degree of strength almost uncontrollable. Allow me to state the
case," continued her ladyship, "when, perhaps, you may see the matter in a clearer light."

At mention of the word case Sir Thomas dreaded another succession of legal points, but demurely
listened to the following version:

"You have unwittingly placed your child in a very dangerous position. To none would I so readily
give the protection of my daughter as Lady Douglas, who is, in every sense, a true mother and
a dignified woman; yet there are moments when Lady Rosamond can assert her right to control
her own impulses and feelings. As a guest she has an entire right, while it would otherwise
be a stretch of prerogative on the part of the guardian."

"You cannot but admit," said her ladyship, still bent on influencing her attentive listener,
"that Lady Rosamond is indeed very beautiful, which alone has sufficient reason to sustain
my argument. Beauty, through countless ages, has been the source of much misery. Through Helen
was lost a Troy; Cleopatra, Roman glory."

Her ladyship was going to cite further examples when interrupted by Sir Thomas exclaiming:

"Your ladyship will pardon me, but it would certainly be deep injustice at present to raise
an objection on this point; it surely did not bring misery in its train to Lord Bereford."

At this compliment to her beauty and vanity, a rare smile lit the face of Lady Bereford, while
she gaily added:

"Sir Thomas, you still cling to your former gallantry with the pertinacity of an ill-favored
suitor."

Seeing that the last evidence was ill-grounded, her ladyship, having reconsidered the situation,
again resumed:

"You must admit that among the military staff of Sir Howard Douglas there are many attractive
and eligible young gentlemen worthy of the hand of the fairest. Besides, there are many families
holding high position in New Brunswick, the descendants of persons of rank equal to our own.
Among these are gentlemen--brave, handsome, and equally fascinating. It would indeed be a very
extraordinary case if the Lady Rosamond, with all her beauty and accomplishments, daily surrounded
by an admiring crowd, should not unconsciously fall a prey to her already susceptible nature.
Sir Thomas," continued her ladyship, with more vehemence in her manner, "you do not seem to
weigh matters as I do, or you would certainly see the error you have committed--the great wrong
you have done to your child. Were I to disclose the facts, they would astonish you, but if
in the future, when too late you make such a discovery, you will have only yourself to blame.
That Lady Rosamond has formed an attachment I am certain; of its value I am not prepared to
say; but, in honor to Gerald Bereford, I have a right to demand your attention."

At this sudden declaration Sir Thomas was astounded.

"Where is the proof of this?" demanded he in startling surprise.

Her ladyship then referred to the letter--its unconnected and half-hidden sentences--and expressed
her firm conviction of the certainty of those predictions.

Sir Thomas drew a sigh of relief when he found no stronger evidence against the straightforward
and conscientious spirit that had hitherto pervaded his loved child.

Lady Bereford possessed the tactics of a clever reasoner. When she had failed in bringing her
own arguments to bear directly she had recourse to more forcible measures. The mention of Gerald
Bereford had instantaneous effect. Sir Thomas' eye brightened with renewed lustre; his whole
expression betrayed the ruling passion within him. Her ladyship took advantage of the situation.

"If you will empower me to act in this case there will be no further trouble to be apprehended.
Woman is the best judge of woman. Leave the matter in my hands, Sir Thomas, and you will have
no further anxiety. I will assure you that Gerald will meet no refusal when he asks Lady Rosamond
to become his wife."

Sir Thomas yielded. He knew that in this lay his child's happiness, which, as a parent, he
was in duty bound to promote.

"Your ladyship is right," exclaimed Sir Thomas, "but in granting this I request that you will
not in any way shorten the visit of Lady Rosamond."

"Rest assured," cried her ladyship, "that no such demands will be made. The happiness of her
ladyship will be our sole interest; kind and friendly advice, with gentle admonition, is the
only safeguard."

When Lady Bereford had gained the case (according to her legal version) her manner changed
as if by magic. Gay smiles played over her features with inexpressible delight; her voice was
soft, smooth, and bewitching with sweetness.

Sir Thomas was persuaded to remain to luncheon. The party consisted of the family, Sir Thomas,
and Colonel Trevelyan, a gentleman whose acquaintance Lord Bereford formed while visiting an
old friend. The conversation was friendly and animated. Many topics of general interest afforded
them an opportunity to pass the hours in a pleasant, lively and genial manner. Having by accident
referred to his connection with the Peninsula campaign, Lord Bereford was delighted to find
another intimate friend of Sir Howard Douglas. Sir Thomas Seymour joined heartily in the general
discourse. Colonel Trevelyan, or properly speaking Sir Guy Trevelyan, told many incidents of
military and social life, in which Sir Howard and himself had figured quite conspicuously.

Great was Maude Bereford's delight when she learned that the young officer, so often alluded
to in the letters received from Mary Douglas, was the son of their guest. At this intelligence
a sudden frown rested on Lady Bereford's brow, but momentarily vanished. She had gained her
point; such matters did not so forcibly affect her now. Naturally many inquiries were made
respecting the young lieutenant, all of which were answered in a quiet and unassuming way.
The character of the father betrayed that of his son. Without questioning why Maude Bereford
felt a deep interest in the young unknown, she had already been forming plans of inquiry to
ascertain a further knowledge. Lady Rosamond would certainly be able to give her a correct
description. Certainly her ladyship must spend much time in the company of one who had such
claims on the friendship of Sir Howard. Reasoning thus was the gentle daughter of Lady Bereford,
while the latter was exultant in having formed a plan for the furtherance of a scheme which
lay near her heart.

The next morning her ladyship was alone in her boudoir. A delicately folded sheet lay upon
the exquisitely inlaid writing desk before her. Satisfaction beams upon her by occasional smiles.
Again she seizes the unclosed letter, examines closely its contents, and, with evident ease,
places it in an envelope which she seals and addresses. A servant in livery answers the summons
of a silver bell standing beside the desk. Her ladyship, drawing aside a hanging of silver
tissue, approaches the door where the missive is delivered in charge of the liveried attendant.
With a sense of relief Lady Bereford returns to the library to await the morning mail.

Lady Bereford indeed lavished all the fondness of a mother's pride upon her first-born. Maude
was to her a simple-minded, gentle girl, whose sole influence was her mother's will. The daughter
of Lord Bereford was a true type of her father: gentle, conscientious and sympathetic.

In Lady Rosamond, Maude Bereford could see no reason for such anxiety as was manifested by
her mother, yet she would feel disappointed if her companion would form another attachment.
Maude loved her brother with all the tenderness of her nature, while Gerald Bereford returned
this love with deep fervent gratitude. His sister was to him the connecting link with Lady
Rosamond. He took pleasure in daily walks with Maude, whose playful childish ways often reminded
him of the absent cousin. The future lord of Bereford Castle was worthy the love of the fairest,
purest and truest. He possessed a spirit of independent manliness, and would brook no favor
that was not warranted by honor.

When Gerald Bereford asked his uncle for a right to address the Lady Rosamond, it was from
a spirit of honor. He dearly loved the beautiful girl, though he had never avowed his feelings,
and when she treated his advances with coolness, he still cherished the hope that in the end
his love would be reciprocated. On receiving the joyful assurance from Sir Thomas that the
great object of both families was the consummation of these hopes, the ardent lover was happy
beyond doubt. Sir Thomas had led Gerald Bereford to believe that the Lady Rosamond had always
favoured his suit, but in girlish caprice had refused him any encouragement until the expiration
of her visit, when she would return home ready to receive the courtly attentions of her relative.

Cheered by these fond assurances, Gerald Bereford did anxiously look forward to Lady Rosamond's
return. Sir Thomas had indeed communicated this matter to his nephew with a firm assurance
of the realization on the part of both. He doubted the true feelings of his child, but he was
determined that the event should take place after sufficient time had elapsed. Lady Bereford
knew that Sir Thomas was really deceiving himself as well as his nephew; but with the keen
perception of her nature, kept her own counsel. She, as well as Sir Thomas, was determined
to carry out her design, for which purpose she closely concealed part of her views from Maude
upon the reading of Lady Rosamond's letter, also her message to Sir Thomas, their interview,
concessions and result.

Practical and calculating woman of the world as was Lady Bereford, might it be possible that
she could heartlessly seal that daintily perfumed missive which was to become the source of
such almost unendurable anguish? Really, one would fain exculpate her ladyship of the great
wrong--a wrong which for years could not be obliterated from the hearts of those whose sufferings
were borne silently and without reproach, each bearing the burden with a sickening heart, feeling
that death would be a happy relief.

What a world is ours. What a problem is life. Is there any word in the English language more
suggestive? Life--its surroundings, aspects, all its outward associations. Is this the limit?
Would to Heaven in some instances it were so, that the end be thus. What a hollow mockery does
it impart to the heart of Lady Rosamond, whose cause of misery remains as yet half told. Life--a
troubled dream, a waking reality, yet we cling to it with fond delusive hopes. What astute
reasoner will solve, the intricacies of this problem? Can one who has suffered? The muffled
throes of crushed hearts are the only response. God pity them!

CHAPTER XI.

FREDERICTON: ITS BUILDINGS, PUBLIC HOUSES, AMUSEMENTS, ETC

The year following the great fire was marked by great progress throughout the Province. Farmers
were again in homes which they had built upon the site of those destroyed by the devouring
element. Fields once more showed signs of cultivation. With Sir Howard Douglas to stimulate
the prosperity of his people, progress was the watchword--the general impulse.

Fredericton, like the phoenix, had arisen from its ashes; buildings arose in rapid succession.
Wooden houses of moderate pretensions lined Queen and King streets, from Westmorland to Carleton
street, the limit of the burnt district.

Business was carried on by a few upright and enterprising merchants, foremost of whom stood
Rankine & Co., the leading firm of the city. This establishment was situated on Queen street,
between Northumberland and Westmorland streets, in which was constantly pouring an unlimited
source of supplies for conducting the immense lumber trade established by this firm, whose
name shall be remembered while New Brunswick shall continue to produce one stick of timber.
Many farmers of that time yet have occasion to refer to the generosity which characterized
this long established firm. Many yet bless the name of Rankine & Co.

The public buildings of our city were in keeping with the private residences. No Barker House
or Queen Hotel adorned our principal street as now; no City Hall, Normal School, or Court House.
On the present site of the Barker House was a long two-story wooden building, designated as
Hooper's Hotel under the proprietorship of Mr. Hooper. This was the only accommodation for
public dinners, large parties, balls, etc In this hotel the St. George Society annually celebrated
their anniversary by a grand dinner party where heart-stirring speeches, toasts and patriotic
songs, were the general order of programme, of which the following verses are an example. They
were composed in April 1828, and sung by one of the members of this society at a public dinner
that year, after the toast of "Lord Aylmer and the Colonies." The idea was suggested to the
young law student by looking upon a map showing the territory explored by the Cabots and called
Cabotia. The writer will be readily recognized as one of New Brunswick's most eloquent, gifted,
and favored statesmen, recently holding the highest position in the Province:--

    When England bright,
    With Freedom's light,
    Shone forth in dazzling splendor,
    She scorned to hold,
    The more than gold,
    From those who did befriend her;
    At space she spurned,
    With love she burned,
    And straight across the ocean
    Sent Freedom's rays,
    T' illume their days
    And quell their sons' commotion.
            Hail, Britannia!
            Thou loving, kind Britannia!
            Ne'er failed to wield
            Thy spear and shield.
            To guard our soil, Britannia!

    But rebels choose
    For to refuse,
    The boon thus kindly granted,
    And with vile art,
    In many a heart,
    Black discord's seeds they planted;
    Now civil war,
    In bloody car,
    Rode forth--and Desolation,
    Extended wide,
    Its horrid stride
    For mock emancipation.
            O Cabotia!
            Old England's child Cabotia!
            No rebel cloud[3]
            Did e'er enshroud
            Thy sacred soil, Cabotia!

    The purple flood
    Of traitors' blood
    Sent vapors black to heaven,
    And hid the blaze
    Of Freedom's rays,
    By a kind parent given;
    But Liberty,
    Quite loath to see,
    America neglected,
    Came to our land,
    And with kind hand
    Her temple here erected;
            O Cabotia!
            Them favored land, Cabotia!
            While we have breath
            We'll smile at death,
            To guard thy soil, Cabotia!

    When foreign foes
    We did oppose,
    Britannia stood our second,
    And those we fought
    Were dearly taught,
    Without their host they reckoned;
    And should they now,
    With hostile prow,
    But press, our lakes and rivers,
    The Giant-stroke,
    From British oak,
    Would rend their keels to shivers.
            And thou, Cabotia!
            Old England's child Cabotia!
            Would see thy race
            In death's embrace
            Before they'd yield Cabotia!

    While Shamrock, Rose,
    And Thistle grow,
    So close together blended,
    New Brunswick ne'er
    Will need to fear,
    But that she'll be befriended;
    We need not quake,
    For nought can break
    The sacred ties that bind us,
    And those, who'd spoil
    Our hallowed soil,
    True blue are sure to find us.
            O Cabotia!
            Our native land, Cabotia!
            For thee we'll drain
            Our every vein,
            Old England's Child Cabotia!

[Footnote 3: Long before the Canadian Rebellion.]

Here the St. Andrews Society also gave their national celebration. Last, but not least, came
the St. Patrick Society. The last named might, indeed, be called the Society. Aided and encouraged
by Colonel Minchin, Hon. Thomas Bailie, Mr. Phair, and many other distinguished Irish gentlemen,
the St. Patrick's Society of Fredericton at that time attained a high social position. On St.
Patrick's eve a yearly celebration also took place, the place of rendezvous being situated
on Carleton street, adjoining the building now occupied as the post office. Eloquent and patriotic
speeches were the leading features of those meetings. The following instance will serve to
give an idea of the spirit which inspired those reunions. On one occasion a member of this
organization--a well-known citizen of Fredericton for many years--spoke as follows: "Mr. President
and gentlemen, I wish to call your attention to a subject which should fire the heart of every
Irishman. Who was the gallant soldier, the true patriot, the hero who never once shrank from
the fiercest of the fight, whose only glory was in his country's cause? Who led his army conquering
and to conquer, facing the foe with the calm and intrepid coolness of one who knew not the
meaning of fear? Who fought with fierce determination to conquer or die when surrounded by
thousands of armed guerillas on the outskirts of Spain? Who dared to face Napoleon? Who dared
to conquer the iron will of the Bourbon mandate? Who but the proud 'hero of a hundred fights,'--the
Duke of Wellington! What country gave him birth?" If I well, I think that tomorrow or the day after I wake up every
throw.

- Do you have cured the Spanish fly?

- Ventura is put on
it now, but has not finished - said, turning to frown.

- Yes, just
get him in the hallway, and told me that you're bothered because I
figured did so with reluctance - Cecilia said smiling kindly.

- Not
that!

Not that! - Said the young man in a tone of impatience and not a
little embarrassed.

- You must forgive, because it is not used to
these things.

It's a girl ... In addition, the state that is perhaps influence your stomach.

- Not that, Cecilia! - She cried the young man more impatiently, raising
some Head .-- pillows would be very foolish and selfish to bother
if a thing which after all is in hand to avoid.

It's a matter of temperament, and I should not to respect, much more
the case of my wife, who is in exceptional condition ... But there's
more.

What I just spent rains, it pours. Ten days ago I'm in bed, and has not entered this room
more than two or three times a day and almost always call me ...
Do you think that's what a woman should be married?

... If not been for you and mom ... especially for you ... would be left in the hands of servants
as in an inn.

- Oh, no, Gonzalo!

- Yes, yes, Cecilia - replied with energy and exalting .-- Abandoned. My wife does not appear
here, but when visiting ... So, yes, has made an arm of the sea, smelling scents and red devils
... But bring me herbal tea, write down the doctor's prescriptions, me some company talking or
reading me something ... Of that, nothing!

... Now I beg cure the blister, and, as I say, completely change
its appearance ... Start looking exits for escape.

Only when I insist hard, you decide ... But so reluctantly! with a face so straight, I was
tempted to throw it all the gizmos. It would shred of dignity or even ashamed, if he had consented
to follow ...

He had been extolling increasingly, to the point entirely incorporated in the bed. Cecilia
standing in the middle of the room, heard him restless and confused, not knowing what to say.
I wanted to defend his sister, but was not powerful enough to counter arguments those of his brother.

-
Gonzalo - he said at last, his voice firm and serene countenance,
approaching the bed, - the disgust you just had a little exalted thee,
and do not see things as they really are ... It is possible Ventura
has been somewhat neglected in the performance of his duties, but
be sure that there has been a lack of will.

I know it well. I know his character does not lend itself engage in such detail and care that a patient
needs. There used to nurse. In addition, believes that now is in a state to be dispensed many
things ...

- But if so at all, Cecilia! If so, at all! - Said the young man so vividly as bad temper .-- If
a girl is not into channel! The affairs of the house will have carelessly. For her, the only important
thing in the world is itself, its beauty, its costumes, her jewels ... Everything else, parents,
brothers, husband, do not mean anything ... I am sure has been more concerned that the hat
that Paris has asked that my illness ...

- Oh, do not say that, by God! You're crazy.

- I'm not crazy. Tell the truth ...

And with a quick word, vibrant, often stumbling by irritation that
was possessed, neatly explained their grievances, pleased to make
punctures bleed again that had received in their married life.

Ventura had a diametrically opposite character yours.

It was not possible to be good to her over an hour.

Because if last long compromise, and no reason to quarrel appeared, she was in charge of searching,
tired, no doubt, be at peace with her husband. If one thing was a pleasure to provide any,
instead of saying thank you, usually paid him with some scorn or sarcasm. Everything seemed
little. The greatest sacrifice the was small. There was no chance of making it think that their
dresses, perfumes, in their ribbons. What a life he had lead in Madrid three months there had been!
Not out of the shops in silks, jewelry, home of dressmaker. At night, surely the theater. Although he was
tired or depart head pain, nothing, it was necessary to be displayed in a box of Royal Prince or
Zarzuela. The money had been spent there, added an impressive amount.
 It was well for the Province that Sir Howard
Douglas was then at hand. The handsome and substantial edifice remains a lasting monument of
grateful remembrance.

While public affairs are thus engrossing the attention of the country at large, the family
of Sir Howard are now quietly enjoying their temporary home in the lower part of the town.
Lady Douglas, beloved by all, is assisting and cheering His Excellency with all the energy
of her nature. The young ladies are happy in their varied labors of love.

Lady Rosamond has not yet turned her thoughts homeward, save to quiet the rebellious thoughts
that rise with occasional and twofold bitterness; she has the heavy trial before her; she drives
away the mocking realities of the future. Vain are the hours wasted in useless repining. When
Lady Rosamond made the disclosure to her companion, Mary Douglas, receiving the full and deep
sympathy of true friendship, had she fully relieved her mind of its entire burden--its crushing
weight? Ah, no! there was hidden deep in the most remote corner of Lady Rosamond's heart a
secret which she would never reveal. Time would bring its changes. Her ladyship would return
to her native home, and, amidst its gay scenes, pass a lifetime of seeming happiness; and the
secret will burn its impress in characters of flame.

One evening Lady Douglas remained in her own apartments somewhat longer than her custom. Had
prying eyes been active the cause might be assigned to the entrance of Lady Rosamond, who had
joined her ladyship nearly an hour previous. On seeing the agitated face of the pale but beautiful
girl her ladyship experienced a pang of deep remorse. She felt her strength deserting her,
yet the task was to be accomplished.

"Rosamond, my darling," said the gentle lady, "I have received a letter from Lady Bereford,
who, judging from the tone of the writing, seems to have some anxiety on your behalf."

This revelation afforded momentary relief to the high-born girl, who was, indeed, a lovely
picture, reclining on a cushion at the feet of Lady Douglas. A shade of sadness rested upon
her face, giving her the expression of a Madonna--a study for Raphael.

"Lady Bereford intimates, in touching terms, that I am to exercise a careful surveillance upon
your girlish fancies," continued her ladyship, with slight sarcasm in her tone.

"Rosamond, my darling," cried she, by way of apostrophe, "I have every reason to place in you
full confidence. I cannot see any ground for such intimation."

"Your ladyship is right," returned Lady Rosamond, throwing her arms around the neck of Lady
Douglas, giving full vent to the feelings which almost overwhelmed her, adding, between tears
and sobs: "I have always obeyed my father's wishes and will not shrink from my duty now. Gerald
Bereford is worthy of a nobler wife than I dare ever hope to be. He has indeed conferred on
me a distinguished honor, and I must try to make amends with all the gratitude of which I am
capable."

Saying this the brave girl tried to force a smile, which, from its superficial nature, cost
a great effort, adding:

"Your ladyship will have nothing to fear; my father's wishes are mine."

From the spirit of determination, which left an impress on the beautiful features of Lady Rosamond,
Lady Douglas apprehended no need of interference. She knew that Lady Rosamond would fulfil
her father's wishes. She was aware that the affectionate daughter would return his confidence,
even at the greatest sacrifice a woman can make. The noble nature of Lady Douglas felt deep
sympathy for her gentle relative--a vague uneasiness filled her mind. Some moments later when
Lady Rosamond appeared in a rich and elegant dinner costume not a trace of emotion was visible.
Its recent effects had entirely disappeared. Lady Douglas had found an opportunity to form
an estimate of the strength of character which sustained the apparently gentle and passive maiden.

At the dinner table of Government House everyone seemed to vie in good humored gaiety and flow
of spirited, animating conversation. Each tried to please. All clouds of despondency vanished
upon this occasion. Sir Howard always set the example. Pressing cares of state, perplexing
questions, and endless grievances, took speedy and ignominous flight when he entered the family
circle. All was unrestrained pleasure and genial delight on this evening. Lady Rosamond was
seated beside the gay and attractive secretary, who was endeavoring to engage his companion
as an ally against the more formidable onset of Captain Douglas. She did fairly surprise the
latter by the earnestness of her replies, her forcible expressions, and the weighty arguments
upheld by superior judgment. Lieutenant Trevelyan, as he converses with Lady Douglas, betrays
no outward feeling. He shows no preference for Lady Rosamond, being more frequently the companion
and attendant of Mary Douglas, who, in trusting friendship, reposes in her young friend a happy
confidence. Despite this assumed ease on the part of Guy Trevelyan, the keen interest hitherto
exhibited by Mr. Howe has lost none of its freshness. The charm still lingers. All hope has
not fled, though the light is in the uncertain future. In Lady Rosamond the well concerted
plans of the secretary find no compromise. Dreading an exposure of her weakness she has thrown
around her a formidable barrier which the most deadly shafts cannot penetrate. In the possession
of this defence she can withstand the united efforts of a lengthy siege. Upon all those operations
she can look grimly on and bid defiance. Mr. Howe felt this as he tried to force an entrance
to the heart of this lovely maiden to wrest from her, if possible, a secret that would give
a hopeful assurance to his projects. An incident shortly afterwards occurred which forever
banished those thoughts from his mind, leaving no further room for doubt; still the fact cannot
be overlooked, that the spirit which pervaded the private secretary of Sir Howard Douglas,
was fraught with generosity and true manliness.

One evening as Captain Douglas and the latter were indulging in a quiet chat the conversation
turned upon Lady Rosamond.

"She is indeed possessed of remarkable strength of character, which is the more surprising
from the natural timidity and gentleness of her disposition," remarked Captain Douglas.

"I have greatly admired her of late, and have, on more than one occasion tried to study the
depths of her nature," returned Mr. Howe, with sudden earnestness. He was bent upon disclosing
further plans to his friend when the latter exclaimed:

"By jove! Gerald Bereford is a lucky fellow, to win the Lady Rosamond as his future bride."

A look of startled surprise betrayed the excited feelings of Mr. Howe, leading Captain Douglas
to remark:

"Look here, old chap, one would be apt to imagine that you were deeply smitten were they now
to get a glimpse of your face."

Mr. Howe smiled.

"Yes," continued Charles Douglas, "her ladyship is to marry her cousin, Gerald Bereford, shortly
after her arrival in England."

This was certainly a new aspect of affairs. Mr. Howe now viewed the matter in another light,
yet he could not heartily respond. Vainly he strove to banish these thoughts, silently murmuring
"poor Trevelyan!"

CHAPTER XII.

CHANGE.

We now arrive at the period when many changes are about to take place. The gayest and most
gallant regiment ever stationed in Fredericton was under orders to be in readiness for departure.
This was a source of much regret to the citizens, who shared in the extravagant scenes of gaiety
so lavishly furnished. The sportsmen of Fredericton lamented the fact with deep regret. We
cannot let this opportunity pass to relate an incident showing to what excess horse racing
was carried in those days. Captain H----, an officer of the above named regiment, a true sporting
character, owned a stud of the best thorough-breds in America. He annually spent an immense
income in horse racing and various sports. In the meantime there lived in the city of St. John
a coachman named Larry Stivers. If ever any individual sacrificed his entire heart and soul
to the management, training and nature of horses, it was the self same Larry. Though possessed
of limited means, no privation was too great in order to gratify such demands. A race was finally
agreed upon between Captain H---- and this remarkable individual, which in the horse records
of New Brunswick has no precedent, the case being unparalleled at home or abroad. One fine
morning in March, 1826, the magnificent team of horses, driven by the captain, made its appearance
in the market square, St. John. After the lapse of a few moments a second team arrived and
was drawn up aside the former. No inquiry was made as to the ownership of the latter. Everybody
recognized it as the turnout of Larry Stivers. But the most remarkable feature of the proceeding,
that excited curiosity, was the slight construction of the sleighs. It could scarcely be conceived
that they would stand the trying test of the proposed race. But they did. Each driver having
purchased a bundle of whips, jumped into his seat. The word was given. Off they went at full
speed, going the first nine miles over bare ground. The news spread over the city of St. John
with almost incredible rapidity. Excitement filled the mind of everybody. No telegraphic despatches
could furnish details as at the present. On they trotted side by side over the smooth surface
of the St. John river, which course had been taken after the first nine miles. Whips were freely
used upon the flagging animals. Sometimes Captain H---- kept ahead, in another minute Larry
was quite a distance in advance. On, on the infuriated animals raced to the heavy lashes of
their merciless drivers. Whip after whip was broken; still on they went over the glittering
surface, the only sound the ceaseless crackling of whips and the ring of hoofs upon the still
frosty atmosphere. About nine miles from Fredericton, as those heartless sportsmen were madly
urging on their jaded beasts, a well-known lumber merchant of the town was accosted by the
leader demanding a whip, which, one is sorry to acknowledge, was given. They had used the whole
bundle, and mercilessly begged for more. Still on they came, the exhausted animals panting
and ready to fall. The goal must be reached. Fredericton must be the only stopping place. One
at least was to be disappointed. Four miles have yet to be passed. Larry Stivers is ahead,
with visions of hopeful victory before him. He is suddenly stopped. One of the brave animals
dropped dead on the spot. Hope instantly vanished. Captain H---- wins the race, while the former
arrives shortly after his contestant with the dead animal upon the sleigh. Fredericton is reached.
A distance of eighty-five miles is trotted in six hours and thirty minutes, inclusive of twenty
minutes for rest and dinner. This wonderful feat caused general astonishment. Hundreds drove
from Fredericton to meet the contestants, while crowds gathered to see the effect thus produced
upon the poor exhausted animals. Soldiers were in attendance upon their arrival, almost dragging
them up the bank. Being rubbed and dosed they were soon restored. The horse that dropped had
been substituted for the famous "Tanner," and not having sufficient training was unequal to
the task. The surviving animal, belonging to Larry Stivers, afterwards became one of the best
and fastest horses in the Province. This incident is not introduced to interest horsemen, but
merely to show how far men's judgment may be led astray by the force of such ruling passions.

To return to our narrative. Hearty demonstrations were participated in by the citizens in testimony
of the appreciation of the military. Balls were given, dinners, speeches and testimonials.
No efforts remained untried to express deep sympathy. Great was the joy at Government House
when Captain Douglas informed the family of Lieutenant Trevelyan's being transferred to the
succeeding regiment. Colonel Trevelyan had obtained this change at the request of Sir Howard
and Lady Douglas. Though a favorite in the 52nd regiment, Lieutenant Trevelyan's character
did not harmonize with those of his brother officers--a circumstance that did not escape the
notice of His Excellency. The matter formed the subject of correspondence between the latter
and Colonel Trevelyan, resulting in the announcement previously made by Captain Douglas. Much
delight shone on every countenance. Lady Douglas congratulated her young friend. Mary Douglas
testified her joy with childish gaiety. Pioneer Johnnie looked forward to another sylvan pilgrimage
with boyish glee. Merriment had exchanged places with murmuring and regret. The secretary alone
remained in a state bordering on hesitation. He would indeed miss his boyish companion, yet
the sense of his presence gave pain. Though not expressed by word or action, he was aware of
the deep and passionate attachment which Lieutenant Trevelyan had formed for Lady Rosamond
Seymour. He was aware of the hopeless result of this knowledge, and felt a sense of relief
in the thought that changing scenes and new acquaintances might claim attention and heal the
wound which otherwise would remain fresh and painful.

The arrival of the 81st regiment was, as customary on such occasions, celebrated by a general
muster of the citizens.

The York County Militia presented a fine soldierly appearance. The grenadiers were indeed worthy
of the tribute paid to their manly form and graceful bearing. Conspicuous was the rising favorite,
Vivian Yorke. His flashing eye, regular features, broad, intellectual forehead, and firmly
chiselled lips, received many compliments as he stood beside his companions. Lieutenant Trevelyan,
in the military staff of His Excellency, also was not allowed to pass unnoticed. It was a remarkable
coincidence that on this occasion, as the crowd bore down upon the company, Lieutenant Trevelyan
was nearly in line with the young grenadier officer. A thoughtless young lady, standing near,
exclaimed hastily to her companion: "Fanny, how much that young officer resembles Mr. Yorke."
The remark being overheard by both parties, caused slight embarrassment, accompanied by a boyish
blush from Lieutenant Trevelyan. Though an intimacy was formed between those young gentlemen,
no allusion was made to the circumstance until many years afterwards, when Mr. Yorke was in
England transacting some important political business, he was laughingly reminded of the affair
by a gentleman in the prime of manhood--no longer a blushing young officer. Mr. Yorke and Sir
Guy Trevelyan joined heartily in the joke, the former remarking that this young lady must have
been colorblind in respect to their eyes. Many such comparisons were made rendering defective
the perception of the fair judge, and causing much amusement to the assembled company. But
this is a digression which the reader will excuse.

Lieutenant Trevelyan was now serving in H. M. 81st regiment under the command of Colonel Creagh--a
veteran of Waterloo--who was highly pleased with the flattering testimonial he had received
from Major McNair, relative to the irreproachable character borne by the young favorite.

A heavy cloud lowered over Government House. Its inmates were once more wrapped in gloomy thought.
Mary Douglas already felt the pang of separation. Lady Rosamond was to return home. Her visit
had been lengthened beyond the term allowed; now she must obey the summons without further
delay. Painful thoughts crossed her ladyship's mind as she made the necessary preparations.
Her fate was already sealed. She could not turn aside the resistless torrent that marked the
course over which she must be borne by the skill of the fearless and merciless pilot, Lady
Bereford.

In the outward conduct of Lady Rosamond none could detect the spirit which actuated her feelings.
Lady Douglas closely watched every movement. Were it not for the emotion which the former betrayed
on receiving the contents of Lady Bereford's letter, would it not have occurred to her to suspect
the heart of Lady Rosamond. It was this circumstance which gave concern to Lady Douglas. She
kept her own counsel, yet was impressed with the belief that Sir Thomas Seymour, in conjunction
with Lady Bereford, was forcing her favorite into a marriage that was distasteful to her wishes.
The longer her ladyship dwelt upon the matter the more deeply she felt concerned; but knowing
the inflexible temper of Sir Thomas and the influence of Lady Bereford, she concluded that
the case was indeed a hopeless one.

Mary Douglas was the only being to whom Lady Rosamond had confided the secret relative to her
father's wishes. Some days preceding her departure the beautiful features of the young girl
bore traces of grief. In the arms of her fond companion she had wept sad and bitter tears.

"This shall be the last exhibition of my feelings," vehemently cried Lady Rosamond, "you will
never again see a tear of mine, at least from the same cause, but darling promise me now that
you will never divulge my secret?"

"Accept my promise, Rosamond," returned Mary, impressing a fond kiss upon the lips of the gentle
and loving girl.

The promise thus made was faithfully kept to be referred to in after years as a dream of the
past which was still fresh in the beauty and loveliness of true friendship.

Lieutenant Trevelyan bore the knowledge of Lady Rosamond's departure with firm composure. He
was kind, genial and entertaining. The strange and uneasy expression came and went with no
remark save that it gave much annoyance to the kind hearted secretary.

The latter saw that no advances were made on the part of the young lieutenant. Her ladyship
would depart while the story would remain untold.

It is needless to enter into the details attendant upon Lady Rosamond's removal from Government
House. Sad and tender were the scenes. Mary Douglas could not repress the stifling sobs and
outbursts of grief. True to the previous determination, her ladyship had schooled herself for
the trying moment. Under the tender care of Sir Howard, the lovely girl took leave of Fredericton,
leaving behind those whom she fondly loved. She carried with her many reminiscences of the
scenes and trials through which she had passed never to be forgotten throughout her lifetime.

In the meantime a question arose in political affairs which required the mature deliberation
of Sir Howard. The boundary dispute was now argued within every district with an earnestness
that showed the importance of the cause. The present grievance had grown out of a former one.

In the treaty of 1873, the description of boundary limits between the United States and the
Colonies was vague. Owing to a want of proper procedure, England and America merely took their
limits from a certain point on the coast, one choosing to the right the other to the left.

The interior boundary was the watershed dividing the sources of the Connecticut and St. Croix
rivers from those which emptied into the St. Lawrence. By this the Americans gained all the
land bordering their own rivers, while the British had the banks of all the rivers extending
to the sea coast. Breach after breach was made, yearly inroads upon British territory were
effected, until the free navigation of the St. Lawrence was claimed, leaving the colonies without
a frontier.

In the State of Maine, a hostile feeling influenced the entire population. A spirit of fiery
independence asserted itself in the face of the British government. Sir Howard kept his eye
on the stealthy movements of his disorderly neighbors. He was not to be outwitted by such aggressions;
he was determined that neither Colonist nor American should transgress; his rights were to
be respected. A New Brunswicker had been prosecuted for attempting to interfere. Equal justice
was to be extended to all. The filibusters were not to be pacified; they abused England and
her representatives in the most violent and abusive terms. The grievances of Maine must be
redressed. Governor Lincoln ordered out the militia to the frontier, while an army of filibusters
was ready to take possession of the territory. They thought to work a plan to throw blame upon
Sir Howard, in the hope that the English troops might be led to engage in a conflict with the
American militia; but the experience of the British representative served him aright, as on
former occasions.

Baker, an unprincipled filibuster now resolved to force proceedings, rushed into British ground
and tauntingly hoisted the American flag. At this juncture of affairs it was expected that
English troops would interfere and a general fight would be the result.

Sir Howard had kept the troops at a respectable distance, where he could order them up at short
notice; but he had no such intention. Imagine the surprise of both parties when a constable,
having arrived, knocked down the flag and took Baker prisoner. Heavy imprecations fell upon
such a course of conduct. Federal troops marched to the frontier, a circumstance of which the
colonists took no notice. Sir Howard took further steps; he ordered the prisoner to be brought
to trial before the Supreme Court at Fredericton, where he was found guilty, with sentence
of a heavy fine.

Threatening attitudes were assumed by the leaders of this dispute, but to these Sir Howard
paid not the least attention. Messages were sent by Governor Lincoln with urgent demands for
Baker's release without any effect. They had to treat with one whose character was marked by
firm determination. An American officer was also sent urging the necessity of the release of
the prisoner. He was not granted an interview, but was kindly cared for in the mess-room of
the 81st, where the officers gave him a hearty reception by a grand dinner, ordered expressly
for the occasion. Despite the swaggering and menacing tone of this guest, the evening was spent
in successive rounds of mirth and exciting gaiety. Songs, toasts and speeches greeted the ears
of the envoy, and amidst these he almost forgot the object of his mission. At last the fine
was paid. It was not until the matter was finally settled, by the decision of the king of the
Netherlands, that comparative peace was restored.

This chapter now ends, having described the principal events that marked the year 1827.

CHAPTER XIII.

CHESLEY MANOR--MARRIAGE OF LADY ROSAMOND.

We are again introduced to Lady Rosamond, now reinstated in the home of her childhood. A sense
of gratitude is awakened within her as she fondly gazes upon the old familiar scenes surrounding
Chesley Manor. The quaint old structure was an exact specimen of an English manor house in
the early part of the seventeenth century, having been designed by an architect of the royal
household in the reign of James the First, whence it still continued in the possession of its
illustrious descendants.

The style adapted to the above named structure was more strictly domestic than defensive. It
was built in quadrangular form, containing only one large court, upon which opened the stately
hall, chapel, and principal apartments. Though not commanding the imposing aspect and grandeur
of Bereford Castle, Chesley Manor had an air of true gentility in keeping with that of its
owner. Lofty windows, reaching to the ground, looked out upon the gardens, which were enclosed
by a high wall.

The period in which the present edifice was constructed was that of the best style of English
architecture, contrasting the more elegant and graceful manor house with the frowning keep
and embattled walls of the olden castle.

Surrey, with its old historic associations, was a fitting abode for the dreamy and poetic nature
of the lovely, high-born maiden. The adjoining districts, with vale and meadow, had a pleasing
effect. Long neglected parks and straggling decayed mansions, afforded ample scope for the
fanciful flights of her ladyship's fond imagination.

Sir Thomas was indeed happy in thus having his daughter once more to brighten the home so long
desolate and lonely. He enjoyed the perpetual sunshine of her bright presence. He loved to
caress his beautiful child and admire her sweet and bewitching charms. Lady Rosamond seemed
happy when in her father's presence. She returned his tender endearments with childish and
playful gestures; she brought sunshine in her path in which the flowers of affection bloomed
with luxuriant beauty. She was esteemed by the train of domestics and functionaries who performed
the duties of the household. This fact somewhat conciliated the young mistress of Chesley Manor.
Her grateful nature could not view these matters without feeling their import.

Wandering through the exquisitely arranged suites of spacious rooms which had been renovated
with a desire to meet her approbation, Lady Rosamond could not but experience a pang of heartfelt
sorrow. Parental love overcame her weakness. Sir Thomas alone possessed the key that gained
access to her feelings. He alone could turn aside the channel of her resisting thoughts and
mark the course for the tide of conflicting torrents as they surge madly on.

Maude Bereford is once more cheered in the daily companionship of Lady Rosamond. In their girlish
and pretty ways those lovely girls form a pleasing picture to grace the interior and surroundings
of Chesley Manor. Maude has a gentle and lovable disposition which wins the admiration of both
sexes. Though not a beauty, she is truly beautiful--beautiful in heart, beautiful in soul.
None see this mental beauty more clearly than the young mistress of the manor. The gentle nature
and simple-minded heart of Maude Bereford sees in her cousin the sweetness and worth which
are so fondly adored by her brother Gerald.

That Lady Rosamond sees in her future husband all that can make the heart truly happy is a
source of constant delight to her loving cousin. Maude has not the keen perception of the nature
of the human heart.

Lady Bereford was sanguine over the result of her diplomatic tact. There lay no obstruction
in the path which she had marked out for Gerald Bereford. No rivals had given cause for offence.
Lady Rosamond had readily encouraged the advances made by her suitor. It was now a settled
conclusion. The fact had been communicated throughout the country. Sir Thomas had already received
hearty congratulations on the brilliant prospects of his only daughter. The event was eagerly
anticipated in the fashionable circles of high life. Many high-born maidens felt a tinge of
jealousy as they listened to the brilliant preparations awaiting the marriage of the future
Lord Bereford. His courtly manners, pleasing graces, and handsome appearance, were the comment
of many. His proud privileges as peer of the realm, his princely castle and great wealth, furnished
themes for eulogy.

While the great event was pending, and general curiosity was awakened in the course of proceedings,
the Lady Rosamond alone remained passive. She calmly listened to the different reports of those
to whom was entrusted the management of affairs with an ease that was perplexing in its simplicity.
A genial smile repaid any effort to please. She gave advice with a gentle deference that surprised
her most intimate friends and companions. With calmness and subdued feelings did her ladyship
examine the costly satins and laces scattered in lavish profusion, and being in readiness to
assume the most courtly and elegant costumes at the sanction of the fair enchantress. Maude
Bereford was radiant with joy, the delightful prospect was at hand. Bereford Castle was to
receive her dearest Rosamond. A splendid house was to be in readiness in the suburbs of London,
where she would revel in the delights of fashionable society and the daily companionship of
Lady Rosamond.

Gerald Bereford looked forward to the consummation of his hopes with fond solicitude. Having
received from Lady Rosamond a quiet appreciation of his tenderness and deep love, he dared
not to question closely the motives which actuated her. Sometimes he had momentary doubts concerning
the entire reciprocation of her ladyship's trust and confidence, which caused considerable
anxiety, but the sweet, pensive smile which asserted itself was sufficient to drive out a host
of smothered grievances.

When Lady Rosamond promised to become the wife of Gerald Bereford she did so from a true sense
of duty and affection towards her only parent. For him she would make the great sacrifice.
Did the occasion demand, she would sacrifice her life on his behalf. In reality she had made
such a test of her faith when she made her betrothal vow, bartering love, happiness, and life.
Yes; life, with its true enjoyments, by this sacrifice, would become a mocking, bitter trial,
to which even death were gladly welcome. Yet the noble girl shrank not from the task which
the stern voice of duty had assigned. She would bear it without a murmur. None save Mary Douglas
should know the depths of feeling of which her nature was capable. Gerald Bereford would acknowledge
the daily attention of a kind and dutiful wife. No human being should know a secret that was
to her more than life--a soul within--a burning, smouldering fire, around which clings the
shuddering form of outraged Hope. Lady Rosamond has kept her secret, therefore the writer will
keep it in respect to her ladyship's inward sanctity. The reader may have gained it; if not,
dear reader, you will in the end be rewarded for your patience by a disclosure. In the meantime
let us follow her ladyship through all the perplexing moments of her unhappy existence, admiring
the true courage and grateful sentiments which sustain her.

The day appointed for the eventful ceremony had arrived. Cards of invitation having been issued
to the most distinguished nobility throughout the kingdom, a vast assemblage of expectant guests
filled the seats and aisles of the ancient gothic cathedral in which the marriage was about
to be solemnized. Happy smiles beamed upon all faces as they glanced around the handsome edifice
so beautifully decorated for the occasion. Flowers and garlands were lavishly strewn around,
scattered upon the floor, upon the steps, upon the way-side; literally all space was crowned
with flowers. Gerald Bereford was truly a prepossessing bridegroom, worthy of loving and being
loved in return. His truthful countenance was beaming with manly love. He was now ready to
pronounce those vows which in his heart met a ready response. Lady Rosamond and her train of
lovely bridesmaids have arrived. Hundreds of spectators are anxious to catch a passing glimpse
of the beautiful bride as she is led to the altar by Sir Thomas Seymour, who gazes with loving
tenderness upon the object so soon to be taken from his heart and home.

The feverish flush of excitement upon the transparent complexion of the bride lent additional
aid to her matchless charms. Lady Rosamond is indeed a creature of surpassing loveliness. The
soft texture of white satin that floats in bewitching folds of drapery around the faultless
form is heightened in effect by an intermixture of costly lace and flashing jewels. The bridal
veil, with its coronet of diamonds and orange blossoms, conceals the features so passive in
the efforts to conceal the emotions which are struggling within the bosom of the fair one as
she slowly utters those vows which, in accordance with her former resolve, she will earnestly
strive to perform. Conscience awakens in her a deep shudder by setting forth painful convictions
of promises given where her heart beats no response. But lady Rosamond felt relief from the
thought of her efforts to do what she could to atone for this knowledge. Her husband would
be happy in her presence if not her love. Those were the thoughts that occupied the lovely
bride as she accepted the congratulations of the crowd who gathered around her. A pleasing
smile greeted every one of the guests; even Lady Bereford was satisfied with the grateful acknowledgement.
The bridegroom was a happy man. He adored his lovely bride. He looked upon her as the perfect
embodiment of love and truth. Such were the sentiments that stimulated Gerald Bereford as his
wife was received into society with all the eclat attendant upon rank, wealth and beauty. Her
appearance on several occasions was hailed with universal delight. Her unassuming manner, childlike
disposition and elegant grace made friends at every footstep. Jealousy found no favor in the
wake of Lady Rosamond. Her presence was sufficient warning to the green-eyed monster to make
hasty retreat.

Lord Bereford took a fond interest in his newly found daughter. He had always loved Lady Rosamond
as his own child. She reminded him of the lovely sister who shared in his youthful joys. Maria
Bereford was the favorite sister of his early days; her daughter was a tender link in the chain
of memory. Lady Rosamond fully returned the affection borne her by Lord Bereford. She found
a strange relief when sitting by his side listening to the stories which brought before her
vivid conceptions of her childhood and its happy past never to return--the days when her heart
was free to roam in its wayward and fanciful nights full of ardour and the bouyant aspirations
of unfettered youth.

Gerald Bereford proved indeed a tender and loving husband. His heart was always ready to upbraid
him if he were not ready to meet the slightest wish of his young wife. Every kindness that
could be bestowed on Lady Rosamond daily suggested itself to the mind of her thoughtful husband.
He was only happy in her presence--she was the sunshine of his heart, of his life, of his soul.
Without Lady Rosamond this world was a blank--a region "where light never enters, hope never
comes." Nor was the fact unknown to the dutiful and amiable wife. It grieved her deeply to
witness such an exhibition of true love and tenderness without its receiving equal return. The
wine used in moderation is medicine for the encouragement and for the body, so I thought the
wise Memnon, and got drunk. Proponenle desktop play a hand: a game where you go through recently,
is an innocent diversion. Play and win him quanto had in his pocket, and four times more about
his word. Give rise to a dispute about the game, the spirits irritans, throws one of his intimate
friends a cup head you take out an eye, and bring home the wise Memnon drunk, penniless, and
with an eye less.

Having slept a little wolf, sent his servant to house the treasurer general of income Nineveh,
to give him money to pay his close friends, and the servant brings new that that morning had
made a bad faith bankruptcy debtor, with the qual dexaba by doors a hundred families. Memnon be
spiteful palace with a eye patch and a memorial in hand, asking for justice to the king of the
bankrupt, and is in a room with many ladies, all backwards like tops with elegant tontillos
twenty feet in circumference, and gowns thirty tail. One that he knew something, he said the
sideways facing you: iJesus, how awful! Y another that he knew more: Good afternoon, sir Memnon,
really, I'm glad Mr. Memnon much to see you:? like that you are one-eyed, Mr. Memnon? and said
this, he left without waiting for response. Agazapose Memnon in a corner, waiting to be able
to throw at the feet of the monarch. His Majesty arrived, Memnon kiss the ground three times,
and gave his memorial, which took the sovereign with great kindness, and handed him one of
his lieutenants, to give her account. Call The satrap of Memnon aside, and says in a tone of mockery
and gesture of insult: Donoso eyed you are, because you dare to give the king a memorial that
has not passed through my hands, and you commit to it the bombing of a failed demand justice honored
that this Baxo my fortress, and nephew a maid service to my dear. Do not give more step in the
matter, at your peril good eye you have left.

Thus, having given up in the morning Memnon of girls, of feasting, games, of contention, and
most of the palace before nightfall had been deceived and cheated
by a herniosa lady, had drunk, he had played, he had an eye removed,
and had been to the palace where he had laughed at him.

Confused, lost, and surrendered to the weight of his sorrow he was returning home half dead,
and going to enter, he found it full of sheriffs and clerks who carried the furniture behalf
of its creditors. Paros almost meaningless vnder a banana, and meets the lovely lady that morning,
which was still walking around with her beloved uncle, and could not be have to laugh at the sight
of Memnon with his patch. Night fell, and lay down on a heap Memnon straw, near the walls
of his house Entrol fever, is lethargic with the strength of her and appeared in a dream a heavenly
spirit, And he shone like the sun, and had six beautiful wings but no feet, no head or tail,
and not like any thing. Who are you? Memnon said to him. Your good genius, he replied. For me
again, "said Memnon, my eye, my health, my wealth, my sanity, and once told him that he had lost
everything so that day. Adventures are these, "replied the spirit, that never happen in the world
where we live. ? In what world you live? told him the suffering. My country, 'said the genius,
is far Five hundred million miles from the Sun, and is one star next to Sirius, you are looking
at from here. Ilinden country! Memnon, he said. ? With rogues you have not betraying the men well,
not close friends that they cheat their money and take out an eye, or debtors who fail, or
satraps that you laugh at you Quando justice denied? No, I said to the inhabitants of the star,
none of that: we do not deceive the women, because there are none, do not over- gluttony, because
we do not eat, or there are debtors who fail, because we have no silver or gold; We can not
tear your eyes, because it seems our body to yours, and the satraps
commit injustices, because we are all equal.

Memnon then said to him: Lord illustrious, "without girls without eating, when you pass the time? In
care, he said the genius, the other balloons that are at our expense, and I am here to console.
Alas! Memnon replied,? because you came last night, and You might have hindered me to such nonsense?
Because I was in Asan, your older brother, told him the inhabitant of heavens, the qual is more
unfortunate than you, having your gracious majesty the king of the Indies where you can admire
the honor of being employed, mandadole out both eyes by a slight fault, and holding him in
a dungeon, tied hand and foot. Pardi, Memnon exclaimed that we are thrives on having a good
genius in our family, two brothers if one is blind, and one eyed, one lying on straw, and another
in jail. Your luck is moved, replied the animal star: truth is that you will be one-eyed life,
but as it is not, you will live pretty happy, provided they never make the misguided purpose
of being completely sane. ? With that this is something that is not possible to achieve? Memnon replied
pulling a sob. As it is not possible, "replied the other, be fully intelligent, fully-strong,
fully powerful, or completely happy. We ourselves are very distant to be so, a balloon is to
the truth where all this is, but everything goes by degrees in a hundred billion seeded worlds
in space. In the second there is less pleasure and less wisdom in the first, in the third less
than in the second, and so continues till the last, where all the world is completely crazy.
I am afraid, he said Memnon, that our globe is just the house of lunatics in the universe, you're
saying. Not so much as that, he said the spirit, but he is nearby, and that everything must take
its appointed place. In this case, he said Memnon, very some poets are misguided, and some philosophers,
who say everything is fine. Have reason, 'said the philosopher of this world, if they see the
placement of the entire universe. iha! replied Memnon poor, I do
not believe as it may one eye.

       

End of Memnon.

* * * * *

THE two consoles.

Said one day the great philosopher cytophylic a distraught lady, and had every reason to be: the
Lady, the Queen of England, daughter of the great Henry quarto, was no less unfortunate than you:
the cast of his kingdom, he was on the verge of dying in the ocean in a shipwreck, and King
witnessed the death of her husband on a scaffold. Much sorry, 'said the lady, and returned
to mourn their own misfortunes.

Remember, he said Cilofilo, Mary Stuart, who was honestly in love
with a handsome musician I had excellent voice of choristers.

Her husband killed the musician, and then his good friend and relative, the Queen Elizabeth, who
was called maiden, sent him to cut his head in a hanging scaffold
Mourning, after having been eighteen years in prison. iCruel success!
replied the lady; and give back to your affliction.

Mentar well have heard, followed the dildo, the lovely Joanna of Naples, which was seized and hanged.
I have a confused idea that, 'said the afflicted.

I will tell you, "said the other, the adventure that happened in my time in a sovereign dethroned
after dinner, and who died on a desert island. All that history is, "replied the lady.

Well tell you what happened to another great princess, my disciple of philosophy. She had her lover
as he is absolutely beautiful and great princess one day his father entered his room, and grabbed
the lover on her face and eyes that shone like two carbuncles, and
Princess also very red face.

Dislike both father of the boy's face, he shook the most massive blow to the day that has stuck
throughout the province. Grabbed the lover pliers, and broke the head of the lady's father, who was
a long time to death, and still has the sign of the injury: the Princess was careless shot through
the window, and spoiling a leg, so that even today it is known that Coxe, although it has beautiful
body. Her lover was sentenced to death for having broken his head
at such a high prince.

Now you can think in that state would be the princess, when taken out to hang with her lover, I was going
to do with frequeencia, when she was in jail, and I always talked about his misfortunes.

? Because they are unhappy that it hurts me of mine? the lady said to him. Because it is not successful
grieve for their misfortunes, and that having been so unfortunate
as many leading ladies, does not seem right that I despair.

Hecuba Behold, behold a Niobe.

Ha, 'said the lady, if I had lived at the time, or so many beautiful
princesses, and their comfort You might have told them my misfortunes?
would have you heard anything?

        

The next day the philosopher lost his only son, and came close to
that feeling die.

Mrs. command to list all the monarchs who had lost their children,
and took her to the philosopher, the qual read it, found them very
timely, and continued crying.

After Three months turned to see, and was astonished to be very happy.

Then lifted a beautiful statue of the time with this label:

THE COMFORTER.

End of the two consoles.

* * * * *

HISTORY

OF VIAG

Of castigating,

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

In the city of Candia I came to the world the year 1600. My father was the governor, and I remember
a poet less than average, if only mildly unkempt style, called Azarria,
made some bad verses in praise of mine, where I described as a descendant
quale Minos in a straight line, but then removed the government having
my father wrote further in I was the grandson of Pasiphae and her
lover.

Mal sugeto this was indeed the Azarria, and most annoying villain in the entire island had.

Fifteen
years had Quando my father sent me to study in Rome, and hoping I get to learn all the truths,
because until then I had been taught the opposite of truth, as is
use in this world, from China to the Alps.

Profondo Monsinor, who was recommended sugeto was rare, and one of the most terrible wise in the
world had. Quisome training in the categories of Aristotle, and almost puts me in their Gitonas:
good me free. Vi processions, exorcisms, and quite a few robberies. They said, though against
all indeed, that the Siniora Olympia, very prudent lady, was selling some things that are
not usually sold. My age it all seemed very funny. It occurred to a maiden lady, and very mild
condition, Siniora called Fatel, fall in love with me: the reverend
father obsequiabanla Punalini and Aconiti the reverend father, a religious
congregation no longer exists, and put according to both of giving
me her favors, but I was in danger of being poisoned and excommunicated.

Rome Dexe very pleased with the architecture of San Pedro.

Trip to France, where the seasoning Luis Reyna to the right, and the first thing I asked was for
my lunch if I wanted a piece of Marshal d'Ancre, who had roast people, and they sold it very
cheap to those who wanted to buy their meat to give away.

Was this a continuous state of civil war drama, sometimes for a place in the council, and other two
pages of theological disputes. More than sixty years to which they were these beautiful weather stricken
by this volcano which sometimes dimmed, and other was burning with
violence, and that was the liberties of the Gallican church.

Alas! dixe, this town is of natural quiet:? who has brought so of its kind? Chufletas says and
does degueello San Bartolome. iVenturoso time that you do not make more to say Donayre!

Go to England, where the same strife occasioned the same horrors. Some saints Catholics, for
the sake of the church, had given the king to fly with gunpowder, family real, and the entire
parliament, and rid England of both heretic. Taught me the site where had made to burn more
than five hundred of his subjects the blessed queen Maria, daughter Henrique eighth, and I assure
Hiberno cleric was much merit action towards God first because the burned were all English, and
secondly because I never took holy water, and believed in the cave of San Patricio, astounded
that they had not yet canonized to the Queen Mary, though he hoped that it would take to put
on the altars, so I had a little place Cardinal Nepos.

We went to Holland, where he hoped to find more peace, and a more phlegmatic people. Quando arrives
The Hague, were cutting the head off a venerable old man, and was the first bald head Barnevelt
minister. Moved with compassion, wonder what his crime was, and if he had been traitor the
state. Much worse than that, I answered a preacher of black cloak that is man believes it can attain
salvation by good works as well as by faith and well see if be credited such opinions, the republic
could not survive, so it is necessary stringent laws to curb such horrific scandals. Then sighing
a politician díxome deep: IHA, sir! This good weather will not last forever, this town is being
so jealous by mere chance: his true character is inclined to abominable
dogma of tolerance, and day will embrace, something that thrills me.

I however, until they reached the fatal time of forbearance and moderation, all haste dexe a
country where no happy tempered their severity, and I embarked for Spain.

Was the court in Seville, had reached the galleons, and the most beautiful season of the year
all breathed abundance and joy. After a street in orange and lemon trees, I saw an arena huge
covered terraces surrounded by beautiful texidos. Baxo a magnificent
canopy were the king, queen, infants and the princesses. In front
of the August family still had a throne higher. Dixe, return to one
of my co-journey: As this seat is not reserved for God, for those
who can not be. Heard a Spanish major these reckless words and I left
side. I figured we were going to see a tournament or a bullfight,
when I went up the Grand Inquisitor to the throne, and from the blessed
the king and the people.

Then came an army of friars in rows of two
by two, white, black, brown, shoes, barefoot, bearded, beardless,
with pointed hood, and no chapel was then the executioner; and behind,
in the midst of sheriffs and dukes, about forty people covered with
sacks where had painted flames and devils. Were these, or Jews who
had insisted on not deny Moses, or Christians who had married with
their Wives, or had not been devoted Nuestra Senora de Atocha, or
had not wanted to give money to the Capuchin Fathers. She gave grand and sumptuous dinner parties, and
entertained her guests with balls on a scale of princely magnificence. Her luncheons were indeed
sufficient to cheer the most despondent and misanthropic. Gaiety in its varied forms predominated
over Lady Rosamond's establishment.

Gerald Bereford was proud of the homage poured at the feet of his beautiful wife. Her praise
was music in his ears. He listened to the flattering courtesies with childlike pleasure. Her
happiness was his. Often when overcome with the cares and anxiety of public affairs a smile
from her ladyship had a charm like magic. A quiet caress was sure to arouse him from the deepest
apathy.

Lady Rosamond strove hard to repay her doting husband. Every attention was paid to his wishes.
He knew not what it was to suffer the slightest neglect. Gerald Bereford was happy. His happiness
was often the subject of comment of the associates of his club. His wife's unassuming beauty,
her grace and virtues, attracted many who were solicitous to cultivate her acquaintance.

"How did you manage to secure such a prize, Bereford? She is the most beautiful woman in the
United Kingdom," exclaimed a gentleman to Gerald Bereford, after being introduced to Lady Rosamond
at a ball given by the French ambassador, where, without any conscious effort, she had been
pronounced the most attractive amidst a bewildering array of princely rank, wealth, dignity,
youth and beauty.

None could deny the assertion. The rich and elegant black velvet robes worn by her ladyship
displayed the beautiful transparency and form of her snowy arms and shoulders. Flashing jewels
lent a glow to the lovely face, reflecting their purity and priceless worth.

In the midst of her greatest triumphs Lady Rosamond felt her misery the most unendurable. Then
she experienced the cruel mockeries of the world; then she felt pangs that the glare and display
of wealth must cover--that the tribute of homage vainly sought to satisfy. At those moments
a picture of never-fading reality would flit before her mental vision in mocking array--a picture
in which her ladyship knelt with expressive and silent gaze at the feet of the stern monitress,
Duty, whose defiant scowl denies appeal from the speaking depths of the mournful dark eyes.
Two forms are discerned in the background; the foremost reveals the features of Gerald Bereford
casting fond glances towards the kneeling figure in the foreground. Duty wears a smile as she
beckons his approach with tokens of deep appreciation. There still lingers another form. Whose
can it be? Can we not recognize that face, though indistinct, in the dim outline? Duty steps
between and intercepts our view. This is the picture from which Lady Rosamond vainly tried
to withdraw her thoughts, repeating the consoling words with saddened emphasis: "Everything
is ordered for the best."

CHAPTER XV.

POLITICAL LIFE.

While Lady Rosamond received the homage of a thousand hearts and plunged into the ceaseless
round of busy life, her husband was engaged as a fierce combatant in earnest conflicts in the
political arena within the limits of Parliament. Enclosed by vast and wondrous piles of stately
architecture, the champions fight for their respective boroughs with untiring energy and vehement
fiery ardour. The ministry, headed by the Duke of Wellington, stood much in need of all the
force which it could bring to bear upon the rallying strength of the opposing element. Among
the latter was arrayed Mr. Bereford. His penetrating judgment and shrewd activity were considered
an important acquisition to the ranks of his colleagues. His masterly and eloquent harangues
never failed to force deep conviction and prove the justice of his principles. Even Lady Rosamond
felt a secret pride in listening to those earnest appeals which disclosed the honest motives
by which they were actuated. Though not gifted with the brilliant powers displayed in the conversational
genius of those women who had evidently devoted much attention to the study of politics, her
ladyship tried to feel an interest in the measures for which her husband had devoted many of
his waking hours, his superior intellectual powers, his fond ambition. In this source she seemed
to find a sense of relief. She never flinched when any exaction was required. If she could
make some recompense for such pure and fervent love, no matter at what cost or sacrifice, gladly
would the conscientious principles of Lady Rosamond accept the terms. Her marked concern and
unremitting attention failed not to elicit admiration from the Premier, who, despite his stern,
disciplined nature, had not forgotten to pay tribute to the attractions of a beautiful woman.
The Iron Duke indeed showed a decided preference for her ladyship. He was charmed with the
sweet, unassuming, and childlike manner of the young matron, and took delight in contrasting
these with the glaring and ostentatious demeanor of these high-minded and profound women with
whom he daily mingled.

Lady Rosamond repaid the gallant Duke for such attention. She loved to engage him in earnest
and animated conversation, and watch the fire that kindled the soul within by the light emitted
from the deep flashing eye. She felt a deep interest in the stern old warrior from the endearing
associations which his memory had woven around her. While in Fredericton her ladyship had heard
many stories in which her friends had also figured in close relation to the hero of a hundred
fights. Sir Howard Douglas had oftentimes entertained his family circle with a recital of such
scenes. The friend of Sir Howard, Colonel Trevelyan, was also an actor in the great drama.
But the last personage could not possibly cause any tender interest to the mind of Lady Rosamond.

Gerald Bereford was opposed in principle to the present administration. He formed one of the
strongest leaders of the opposition. His heart was in the work before him; he would not flinch
from the responsibility. His haggard countenance often gave evidence of the spirit which influenced
his actions; yet he wearied not. A mild reproof from his lovely wife would for the while have
some effect, when he would devote all his leisure to her comfort and pastime, being fully repaid
by the most simple caress or quiet smile.

Early in the next year an event followed which had a great effect both on political and social
life. His Majesty, George the Fourth, had passed away from earth. Among those within our acquaintance
few there were who deeply regretted the circumstance.

Lady Rosamond, in writing a friend, said: "We cannot indeed entertain any lasting regrets for
one who inflicted such misery upon one of our sex. The unfortunate queen and her tragical end
inspires me with a feeling bordering upon hate towards the author. As women we must feel it,
but as women we must forgive."

Thus was the matter viewed by her ladyship, who now looked forward with happy anticipation
to the approaching and brilliant pageantry. The "Sailor King" sat peacefully on the throne
of England. In the days of her childhood Lady Rosamond loved to climb upon the knee of a handsome
nobleman--in truth a gallant prince. Lovingly did she nestle against his manly breast with
eager, childish confidence, throwing her beautiful silken ringlets over his shoulders in gleeful
pride. Many times had she kissed the lips of her royal patron, while he playfully designated
her his "White Rose of England." Among the many beautiful trinkets she had received at his
hands none were more valuable or precious than the jewelled locket bearing the simple inscription
"William," appended to a miniature chain, which she had always worn around her neck in grateful
remembrance. The kind-hearted prince had won the lovely child. Kind memories can never be obliterated
from kind hearts.

Lady Rosamond in after years never forgot the sailor prince of her childhood days. The old
admiral was proud of the attachment thus formed in his early career. He had entertained towards
the generous prince a warm regard. In naval cruises they were often thrown in company, while
on more than one occasion Sir Thomas had granted leave to obtain the service of his young friend
for a lengthened cruise.

It is not, therefore, a matter of surprise that Lady Rosamond hailed with rapturous delight
the accession of the sailor prince as William the Fourth of England. Her hopes beat high as
she thought of the approaching ceremony when she would once more be recognized by her old friend.
Has she outgrown his memory? or has he kept her still in view through each successive stage
of life? Many were the speculations formed within the mind of her ladyship as she made the
elaborate preparation necessary for the intended reception. The day at length arrived. The
king and queen were to receive the nobility of the realm. Dukes, earls, viscounts, marquises,
baronets, with all the titled members of their families, were to pass in array before the conscious
glance and smile of majesty.

The royal reception chamber blazed with dazzling splendour. Titled courtiers in costly dresses
of crimson, purple, and violet velvet, embroidered in gold, glittering with the many orders
upon their breasts, while the jewelled hilt of the golden scabbards flashed in dazzling rays
of light. These lined the apartment or moved to and fro at the summon of royalty. Ladies of
honor were grouped at respective distances from their sovereign mistress ready to obey her
slightest behest. Their costly robes, courtly grace, and distinguished appearance, befitted
the noble blood which ran through their veins as proof of their present proud position. To
a stranger the scene was impressive. On first entering the train of attendants and military
display is sufficient to quell the most stout hearted. Passing along with as much dignity as
the person can, he is announced in loud stentorian tones by the lord chamberlain, who glances
at the card thus presented. Then advancing towards the throne, kneeling down, kissing the back
of His Majesty's hand, and passing along in the train of his predecessor forms the remaining
part of the ceremony. During this time hundreds will have taken part in these proceedings,
happy in the thought of having received a respectful bow from the grateful monarch in return
for the deep and almost overpowering embarrassment that possesses the one taking part in those
imposing ceremonies.

The rising blush on Lady Rosamond's cheek showed the excitement that stirred the depths of
her inward feelings. She was carried back to the happy child days when no shade hovered near;
when no bitter concealment lurked in the recesses of her joyous heart; when her fond plans
were openly discussed before the sailor prince with intense merriment and glee. Vainly she
sighed as she thought of what might have been. Though in the present the inference was distasteful,
her ladyship could not dismiss the subject. As she stands quietly awaiting her turn in the
order of presentation, let us once more picture the beautiful face and form which have won
our entire sympathy.

Lady Rosamond has lost none of the beauty hitherto depicted in her charms. She is still lovely
as when described while a guest at Government House. Her cheek has lost none of its roundness;
the outline is full, striking, fresh and interesting; the expressive dark eyes have lost not
their usual brilliancy, save a mournful tenderness that is more often betrayed than formerly;
the lustrous black hair is wantonly revelling in all the luxuriance of its former beauty. Time
nor experience has not the ruthless power to desecrate such sacred charms. Lady Rosamond has
yet to rejoice in these; she has yet to pluck the blossoms of happiness springing up from the
soil of buried hope where seeds had been scattered by the unseen hand of Mercy. Well might
Gerald Bereford have been fond of his wife as she approached the "Sailor King," in her train
of white satin and velvet sparkling with diamonds, with a grace bespeaking ease, trust and
dignified repose. The announcement of Lady Rosamond Bereford afforded striking proof of the
warm-heartedness of his majesty, showing he did not forget his former white rose of England.
His eagle eye detected the small jewelled gift almost concealed within the breast of her ladyship,
as she lowly bent down to kiss the hand of her sovereign. A beautiful blush overspread the
features of Lady Rosamond as she felt the directed gaze. "Your ladyship has not forgotten the
sharer of her childhood joys," exclaimed His Majesty with expressive smile.

A deep blush succeeded when the kneeling suppliant recovered sufficient self-possession to
reply. "Your Majesty will pardon this occasion to acknowledge the great honor conferred by
this tender allusion to a loving and loyal subject."

In her blushing loveliness, Lady Rosamond received a fragrant and beautiful white rose from
the hand of her liege sovereign as expressive of the desired continuation of his former regard
and endearment. This was truly a remarkable moment in the life of her ladyship. She felt the
true force and depth of friendship. If the favor of her monarch could give happiness, would
she not exercise a large monopoly? Yet there was happiness enjoined in the ceremony. His Majesty
was happy to meet his former friend and companion. Her Majesty the Queen was happy to find
one in whom her husband found so much to admire. Gerald Bereford was truly happy in having
such royal favour extended towards the lovely being upon whom he lavished his fond love.

These circumstances gave some relief to lady Rosamond and taught her many lessons through suffering
to which she could return with thankful gratitude for the bitter trials so heavily imposed.
Sometimes a feeling of remorse took possession of her ladyship as she looked upon the face
of her husband and fancied that there rested a yearning, wistful look, a lingering for her
truer sympathy. She sometimes felt that her husband also cherished his vain regrets, his moments
of bitter conflicts when he tried to smother the unbidden thoughts that would thus arise. These
fancies often roused Lady Rosamond to a sense of her duty with wholesome effect.

This mark of royal favor was not lost upon Lady Rosamond. Her Majesty expressed a wish to receive
the king's favorite among the ladies of her household. But the tearful eyes of the beautiful
matron forbade any further mention. The German propensities of Queen Adelaide would not force
any measure thus proposed. Lady Rosamond had full access to the royal household, receiving
the confidence of her royal patroness with true grace.

Now began the struggle for Reform in the Parliament. Throughout the kingdom arose the cry of
Reform which had been echoed from the second French revolution. Among all classes arose the
war note of Reform. It sounded loud and high. It was borne over the continent. Nothing but
Reform. Reform of the House of Commons was the subject discussed at every fireside.

Affairs had now reached a political crisis. The Duke of Wellington, with his unrestrained and
high-bred principles of conservatism, could not brook such an innovation upon the time-honored
laws and customs of the British constitution. He could not favor a faction that would countenance
the spoliation of England's hitherto undimmed greatness and national pride. Hence arose a new
ministry under the united leadership of Earl Grey and Lord John Russell. In Gerald Bereford
the supporters of the Reform measure found a zealous adherent. He seemed to lay aside every
other consideration in advancing the scheme which lay so near his heart. Lengthy and private
consultations were held between the latter and his sincere friend and adviser, Earl Grey. Days
and nights were passed in fierce and endless controversy in the House of Commons.

This was the only point in which Lady Rosamond failed to convince her husband of the injury
sustained by such constant turmoil and anxiety involved in these measures. When she quietly
endeavored to reason upon such a course of conduct he smilingly replied: "My darling, duty
calls me and you would not see me inactive when the demand is so imperative? Surely my beautiful
rose would not like to have the breath of slander attached to her husband as guilty of cowardice
or desertion from the ranks of his party? Ah, no, my darling," cried the earnest politician,
preventing his wife's retort with the tender kisses of a true and ardent love. It did indeed
seem strange that the more earnestly Lady Rosamond pleaded with her husband the more firmly
did he resist, and, if possible, the more ardent he became in his attention. Lady Rosamond
felt a strange and unaccountable desire to interfere with the plans laid down by Gerald Bereford.
Many times she urged upon Earl Grey the necessity of moderation, and, with a vehemence foreign
to her nature, strove to impress him with prophetic visions of anxiety, doubt, and fear. Her
ladyship was somewhat reconciled by the resignation of the Premier, who, in his joking manner,
attributed his want of success to the hostile attitude of the wife of his friend, Gerald Bereford.

But the conflict was kept up with renewed energy. The Reform party were not to be thus easily
outwitted. They were still sanguine. During the period when the ministry vacillated between
the Conservatives and Whigs, the spirits of the latter never drooped. Victory was the watchword
that attached itself to the Reform party. Victory was the cry of Gerald Bereford as he labored
day and night with untiring zeal, utterly regardless of the ravages thus made upon his hitherto
robust constitution. In this exciting struggle the young politician was unconscious of the
deadly and venomous growth taking root within under the baneful effect of negligence and over-taxed
powers.

CHAPTER XVI.

NEW BRUNSWICK.

The capital of New Brunswick was the scene of more than usual excitement. Extensive preparations
throughout the higher classes of society indicated that some very important event or events
were about to take place. Extravagant purchases made in the several stores where were displayed
dry goods, intimated that the fair sex looked forward to the approaching festivity with intense
and joyous anticipation.

New-year's eve has arrived. Happiness expresses itself in rippling smiles beaming upon all
faces. Every citizen has cause for rejoicing. The commodious structure planned under the supervision
of His Excellency, Sir Howard Douglas, is now ready for the reception of a numerous assemblage
of guests. The family are reinstated in Government House, happy in being once more able to
extend their far-famed hospitality as on former occasions.

Nothing was wanting to make the present reception one of the most gorgeous in the social records
of provincial life. Every window in the entire building was brilliantly illuminated in the
most beautiful colors of every hue and in a charming variety of scenes. There were represented
the western heavens at sunset in crimson and gold; the rising glories of the approaching monarch
shown on the eastern hill tops; scenes of classical beauty shone in bewitching effect. Any
attempt to particularize fails in the very effort. Suffice to say Government House blazed,
not in the spontaneous spirit which displayed itself when the former building succumbed, but
by the heightening aid of artistic skill and design. From a distance the sight was truly beautiful.
Many gazed with unwearied eyes anxious to behold a view which might never again be afforded
them. The incessant peals of merry sleigh bells seemed to harmonize with the merriment and
gaiety of the guests as they hurried to their destination. The array of rank, wealth, youth
and beauty thus assembled are never again to be realized. Every colony in His Majesty's domains
in America was represented. Every one holding high rank or title was present. Lady Douglas
with kindling eye glanced through the different rooms and pronounced the affair a decided success.

Mary Douglas experienced a feeling of sadness while drawing a comparison between the present
occasion and one in which Lady Rosamond was an honored guest. She could not but feel a deep
yearning towards her old friend--a fond and tender longing to embrace the beautiful Lady Rosamond
Bereford.

The drawing-rooms reflected credit upon those who assisted in the decorations. Brilliant colors,
banners, emblems, mottoes, flags, pennons, and coats of arms were intermingled with an eye
to harmony and graceful effect.

The military precedence on every hand shewed the spirit which influenced Sir Howard and his
distinguished family. Nearly all the gentlemen of the household were distinguished by their
uniform. Every attendant was in uniform. Soldiers lined the grounds; soldiers kept hourly patrol;
soldiers executed every command. The social atmosphere of Government House breathed of a true
soldier-like element. The ladies felt its influence as they took delight in listening to the
chequered scenes amidst the lives of the many veterans who sat at their table.

The 81st now graced the evening by a numerous body of officers with the gallant Colonel Creagh
foremost in the assembly. The genial countenance of the old veteran, his sparkling eye and
animated gestures found ready entrance into many hearts. Conspicuous were Jasper Creagh, now
attached to the regiment as holding a lieutenant's commission, and his friend Trevelyan, now
promoted to the rank of Captain, and still enjoying the unbounded good will and confidence
of superiors and inferiors.

The faithful secretary still sustained his former resources for enjoyment and festivity. He
had made himself agreeable to many fair ladies, acting the part of a gallant attendant, but
his heart remained unimpressed, often a source of keen enjoyment to Captain Douglas, who vainly
tried to captivate his friend in many ways. Mr. Howe was a distinguished and fine-looking gentleman,
remarkably tall and straight, while the keen glance of his dark eye was sufficient to convince
one of the powers of penetration forming such weighty proportion in the make-up of his character.
His olive skin formed a pleasing contrast to the pearl white complexion of the beautiful daughter
of the household, as they mingled together in the dance. The sparkle of that lovely eye was
enough to drive the adoring suitors to distraction, yet Mary Douglas coolly withstood their
ardent gaze. Dance and song mingle in successive round. Youth and age alike join in the fairy
scene. Arch glances pass from courtly cavaliers to beautiful maidens who "blush at the praise
of their own loveliness." The rustle of silken draperies sound to the ear as unseen music at
the hand of the warbling genii. Robes of spotless purity and gossamer texture flit around,
keeping time to the merry ringing silvery peals of girlish merriment. Such are the scenes that
greet the eye and ear in roaming amid the gay throng at Government House, Fredericton, on the
New Year's Eve of 1828.

It would be a difficult task to make particular mention of the aristocratic matrons; still
it would be a great injustice to pass over a matter of so much importance. In fact, by some,
the married ladies bore off the palm for beauty and intelligence. Of a certainty the comparison
excepted the ladies of Government House, there being none who could compete with Mary Douglas,
her beauty being of a superior type.

At the ball a married lady of rank wore diamonds valued at a cost seeming fabulous. Others
followed in the wake of such extravagance by wearing necklaces, bracelets, head-dresses, ear-rings,
and brooches, in almost unlimited profusion. Add to this the magnificent array of Sir Howard's
supper table, its glittering plate in massive style, its enormous chandeliers, its countless
train of liveried attendants, and you can then only form a very faint conception of the first
ball given in the present Government House, nearly half a century in the past!

Truly this was the chivalric age in the history of the capital of New Brunswick--the age when
proud knighthood was the ruling passion in the breasts of the sterner sex, when true heroic
bravery was the quality which won the maiden fair, when the breath of slander could not be
tolerated without calling forth a brave champion on behalf of the wronged. This is the age
that has passed away never to return. Progress and Reform are the two great powers combined
to crush out all traces of those by-gone days. In united action they ruthlessly wipe out every
vestige or lingering relics of past greatness. Nothing must stand in opposition to their will.
Reform suggests, Progress acts--Reform suggests the removal of all old landmarks--Progress
assists in the accomplishment. By such means, and through successive stages, did those days
pass away, now to be reviewed, as a beautiful dream of the past.

Leaving this point we will proceed with the facts of the story.

The day following marked an event of much greater importance than that of the preceding evening--it
was important to all--all classes were afterwards to be benefited by the great boon thus conferred
on the people of New Brunswick. Every parish and county had reason afterwards to rejoice in
the great work of this auspicious moment.

On New year's day of this year was opened the College at Fredericton. The Charter had been
procured by Sir Howard after having withstood a storm of violent opposition, under which an
ordinary spirit would have sunk in hopeless despondency; but the iron will and calm judgment
of the wise statesman and ruler had outlived the fury of the opposing element, who now reaped
the reward of his indefatigable labors by the accomplishment of the great work.

The king showed his sanction by conferring upon this Institution the name of "King's College,
New Brunswick," while to Sir Howard he assigned the honor of being its first chancellor, in
acknowledgment of the great service thus rendered to the cause.

In this office His Excellency was duly installed on the present occasion. Divine service was
performed as the first ceremony. The professors and students were in their places. Members
of the legislature and the royal council occupied seats, while the public thronged the building
to the utmost capacity.

Great and heartfelt was the burst of applause that greeted Sir Howard as he took his place:
greater still, when he announced the intention of the king in conferring his name upon the
College. The expressive features, high, broad intellectual forehead, earnest eye, benign countenance
and honest smile perhaps were never more significant of the earnestness that pervaded every
thought and action of the gentleman, scholar, and soldier, as when he uttered sentiments which
shall be cherished through after ages, so long as King's College shall remain a monument to
the memory of the best and greatest man that ever trod the soil of New Brunswick.

Let us make use of his own words: "I shall leave with the College," he said, "I trust, for
ever a token of my regard and best wishes. It shall be prepared in a form and devoted to an
object which I hope may prove a useful incitement to virtue and learning; and at periodical
commemorations of the commencement it may serve to remind you of the share which I have had
in the institutions and proceedings of a day which I shall never forget."

Nor did this friend of education ever forget his promise. The Douglas Gold Medal is still competed
for though many years have rolled between the time when the first and last were presented.
The distinguished donor has passed away, but his pledge remains. Memory fondly clings around
the deeds of Sir Howard and throws over them a halo of light that will shine with increasing
splendor as time lengthens the distance between.

The boundary question still assumed a troubled and unsettled state. Many complaints were laid
before his Excellency, but he calmly resolved to grant no concessions. He treated every messenger
with polite firmness. Congratulations poured in from the Governor General from Canada and the
British Minister at Washington, regarding the cleverness and ability displayed on the occasion.
At last it became evident that no direct conciliation could be effected between the disputants.
Another course must be adopted. An arrangement was agreed upon between the English and Americans
that the matter be left to arbitration, to the decision of the king of the Netherlands. In
such knowledge the people felt and saw a common dread, a common anxiety, a gloomy foreboding.
Such knowledge brought the painful idea of separation. Sir Howard was appointed to prepare
the case for presentation. His presence was imperative in England. A heavy blow fell like a
death knell on the future hopes of the colonists. Their true friend, sympathizer and ruler
was about to take leave. Many mourned his departure as that of a father or brother. Their friend
in prosperity and dire adversity; he who had struggled with the calamities and worked for the
advancement of his people, their interests and direct benefits, was now to embark for his native
land.

Regret was depicted on every face as the colonists moved in large bodies to return grateful
recognition for the zealous labors spent in their behalf. Every society took active measures
in showing their mingled regret. Tears rained thick and fast as many old friends grasped the
hand of Sir Howard, murmuring a last God bless you. The kind-hearted soldier could not but
feel deeply when he witnessed such hearty demonstrations, yet he had hopes of returning to
New Brunswick. He cheered the people with such remarks and strove to make the least of the matter.

Nor was the family of Sir Howard less to be regretted. Their kind hospitality, generous hearts,
and unassuming dispositions, had made many friends in Fredericton and throughout the Province.

Lady Douglas strove to conceal her regret with many well-timed remarks. Mary Douglas lovingly
lingered among the well-remembered walks and paths where she had spent peaceful and happy days.
The lovely spring-time which she had looked forward to, with its songs of birds, bright sunshine,
lovely flowers, and green fields, had come again, but not for her enjoyment. Other ears would
listen to the warbling songster--other forms would sit in her accustomed seats and enjoy the
pleasing sunshine--other hands would pluck the lonely flowers blooming in beauty all around--other
footsteps would roam over the soft green grass that gently raised its head as she tripped lightly
along in former years. These were the friends of Mary Douglas, truly the child of nature. Birds,
flowers, fields, sunshine, rain, and storm, were the constant companions of the gifted and
beautiful student. The warble of the birds was to her of more worth than the most bewitching
strains of an English opera; flowers taught lessons more inspiring and sublime than the most
profound theological discussion. Verdant fields and bright sunshine were constant reminders
of Heaven's choicest blessings and never-failing truth, while the stormy conflicts of nature's
elements taught the heart a wholesome lesson in the thought that life has its changing moods,
its bitter conflicts, its merciless storms.

Sad was the heart of the dreamer as she wandered for the last time amid these never-to-be-forgotten
haunts. Tears dimmed her lovely eyes and trickled down her cheeks. The scene was too sacred
for other eyes. She had started off alone, wishing to pay the last tribute of respect to her
silent friends in a manner becoming the solemnity of the occasion.

We leave Mary Douglas in her sylvan retreat and follow other members of the family in their
tender leave-taking.

Miss Douglas echoes the same spirit as her sister, but with less poetic eloquence and fervent
inspiration. She looks upon the faces of many dear young friends and feels a deep pang of sorrow
as their tears mingle with her own. John Douglas, no longer a mischievous, romping, and noisy
boy, but an engaging and attractive young gentleman, ready to enter the army, takes a hearty
leave of his former schoolmates and companions with sincere regret, bearing with him their
united wishes for his future welfare and success in life.

It would be an endless task to enumerate the bitter repinings and tender leave-taking between
each member of the family, and the numerous hosts of sincere friends who pressed around them,
eager to wish God speed on the journey. Suffice to say, amid the last parting word, the last
pressure of the hand, and the last fond embrace, the beloved family of Sir Howard Douglas took
their last glimpse of Fredericton, dimmed by their fast falling tears, as the steamer slowly
passed from the wharf, whence issued the plaintive strains of "Auld Lang Syne," to be borne
ever after in the memory of those who listened to the last parting tribute wafted from the
shores of Fredericton.

CHAPTER XVII.

REGRETS.

Though most of those in whom we have taken such deep interest have left the Province far behind,
we cannot bear the thought of following them until more fond ties be broken that binds them
to our native home. Ah! were we to consider every fond tie, there could be no hope for separation.
There are ties which bind the heart as lovingly as those of friendship, there are ties which
cling while we breath the inspiration of every page within the universal volumes of Heaven's
choicest productions--the great book of nature--the teacher and refiner of the soul. This is
the tie which clings to us through the medium of holy thought, inspiring, elevating and cheering.

Among those who most deeply felt the departure of the inmates of Government House, none were
more reserved in their demonstrations than Captain Trevelyan, who calmly watched each successive
step in the order of preparation with a quiet reserve that to the uninitiated would appear
as void of feeling.

But the brave and handsome officer showed not the fathomless depths and feelings of his true
heart, which throbbed with a renewed emotion. With a sense of utter loneliness he lamented
the bitter misfortune which had been his attendant since he had left the peaceful home of his
fatherland. Mary Douglas, his kind friend and companion, had been as a gentle and loving sister
to raise for a time his flagging spirits. Mr. Howe had ever been at his side to show unceasing
acts of kindness and brighten those dark hours with a tender but inexpressive sympathy. Captain
Trevelyan could never forget the motives which actuated these, still he did not exhibit any
outward show of gratitude save by a firm and passive confidence.

Knowing the true nature of such friendship, Mr. Howe would have experienced deeper regret at
parting were he not aware that he would meet Captain Trevelyan early in the following year.

Left to the undisturbed quiet of his own thoughts, Captain Trevelyan formed many plans regarding
his future career. A work was steadily going on within while he attended the duties devolving
upon him in connection with his military life.

It had always been the true aim of this soldier to discharge his labors faithfully and with
a desire to please. His genial nature and generous heart gained the popularity of the entire
regiment. Not only did he treat his superior officers with profound respect but his inferiors
as well. Every subordinate officer and private loved to meet his friendly smile. Every one
vied in doing some act that would receive his approbation. Truly did Colonel Creagh make the
following remark to a distinguished General, who was inspecting the troops: "If ever man were
born who possessed not a single enemy, I believe that man is Captain Trevelyan."

"I believe you," returned the General, "goodness is stamped upon his handsome face, but seldom
is it so clearly defined as to insure such general approval."

"Sometimes," added the Colonel, "I have doubts regarding the serious intentions of our friend.
It has been whispered that he begins to weary of the service. I have not had sufficient reason
to confirm the truth of the statement, but I shall feel much dissatisfied if it prove correct.
Sir Howard Douglas always maintained that Trevelyan is a scion of the old stock, that he possesses
the same qualities that distinguished his father. It would indeed be a source of regret were
all to be disappointed by his retirement," said the Colonel, in a tone of deep earnestness.

"If the family resources are large he may have sufficient reason for such an act," ventured
the General interrogatively.

"Sir Guy Trevelyan," said the Colonel, by way of explanation, "owns a fine old estate in Hampshire,
which yields a moderate income. His only son will be his direct heir, and Captain Trevelyan
can at any opportunity enjoy the ease and retirement of private life."

"I should not be surprised were he to avail himself of the departure of the regiment," exclaimed
the general, adding, "there is not much distinction now to be gained in the service. Captain
Trevelyan might remain an honorable officer in His Majesty's service for years to come and
not attain the position marked out by his distinguished parent."

Many remarks were thus applied to this officer by the gallant colonel of the 81st Regiment.
Every sentence showed not only the high esteem in which Captain Trevelyan was held by the veteran
of Waterloo, but the fears entertained by the latter in regard to his rumoured retirement.

Not long after the above conversation took place Fredericton was to witness another departure--the
gallant 81st, under orders, were to be relieved by the 1st Battalion of the Rifle Brigade.
The same formalities of interchanging regrets were to be passed between those departing and
the citizens. The same congratulations were to be presented in appreciation of the high esteem
entertained towards the entire regiment in the presentation of testimonials and other marks
of respect.

The morning preceding the departure of the company to which Captain Trevelyan was attached,
afterwards formed an important one in his life. Colonel Creagh's fears were realized by intimation
from Captain Trevelyan with intention to make application for a discharge immediately on his
arrival in England.

After long and grave deliberation he had fully made up his mind, while a letter received from
his sister gave twofold assurance of the great delight which such news communicated to the family.

As this young girl will now be introduced to the reader, we take the liberty of inserting the
letter, showing the tenderness of feeling existing between the brother and sister, the fond
anticipation breathed through every sentence, and the deep interest manifested in the friends
of the absent one.

Frequently did Guy Trevelyan re-open the envelope and bring forth the precious missive, written
in a delicate feminine hand, containing the following:--

     Trevelyan Hall, near Winchester, Sept. 19th, 1830.

     Dear Brother Guy,--

     Your fond letter of the 20th was received in due time, conveying
     the most delightful news that ever was written. How can I await
     your dear presence? Really it seems almost too much happiness to
     realize that you will once more return home to remain. Papa writes
     that he warmly approves of your decision, intimating that I must
     have been instrumental in procuring such good fortune for us all. I
     dare not dream too fondly lest by some means I may be disappointed;
     but, dearest Guy, once restored to us, our delight will be
     unbounded.

     You must not expect to have a very long letter this time, as I
     cannot settle my thoughts to think of aught but yourself and "The
     Restoration." If the second be not of such universal display as the
     one so grandly portrayed in history, it is doubtful whether the
     sincerity attending the latter be not of a more lasting nature and
     one showing the true affections of loyal and devoted hearts.

     I had almost forgotten to mention that I have frequently met Mary
     Douglas, who is, at present, visiting her friend Maude Bereford, at
     the Castle. Also, had the pleasure of being introduced to your
     friend Mr. Howe, and feel a deep interest in him on your behalf.
     Imagine my delight when he informed me of his intention to accept
     your invitation to remain with us for a few days on your arrival.
     It seems that I cannot remember anything. I must not forget this
     time to say that great anxiety is expressed and felt at the Castle
     regarding the failing health of Lady Rosamond's husband--Mr. Gerald
     Bereford. For some time past he has sadly impaired his constitution
     by taxing his powers beyond endurance, and when almost too late, he
     withdrew from political life. Great sympathy is extended Lady
     Rosamond who seems very despondent. Medical advice suggests change
     of climate, and I have heard that they intend to spend the winter
     in Italy. Not wishing to give any more news until I see you at
     home, dear Guy, and having nothing further to add but our love,

     I remain your expectant

     Fanny.

Fanny Trevelyan's letter had a double effect upon the mind of the recipient. It involved both
happiness and despondent gloom, and unconsciously had struck a tender chord which vibrated
with redoubled sadness in its deep sympathy.

Why do the waking echoes of the past take cruel delight in presenting to the mind visions which
otherwise would be laid aside in a retired recess or a secret chamber sacred to the relics
of other days and other scenes? Why are those realities to present themselves in merciless
and mocking array to gloat upon our sufferings with fiendish delight? These are questions only
to be answered when the causes which call them forth have ceased to exist.

Captain Trevelyan's retirement was the subject of much concern for the officers and men. Many
discussions arose as to the motive. Lieutenant Creagh remonstrated, but to no purpose. As the
slow sailing ship bore the gallant regiment across the Atlantic, hope reigned supreme in many
hearts. Friends and home greeted them on arrival. At Gosport, Captain Trevelyan took formal
leave, having received the strongest proofs of sincere friendship existing between man and
his fellowbeings.

Great was the joy that awaited Guy Trevelyan as he once more entered the fine old park enclosing
the grounds of "Trevelyan Hall." His mother, a staid and stately English matron, forgot all
dignity as she threw herself fondly into his arms. Fanny, the pet of the household, clung to
her brother with tightening embrace, showering him with kisses pure as her maiden heart. Nor
was the dutiful son less tender in his expressions of joy, as lovingly he gazed upon the fair
girl seated with her arm upon his shoulder. He could scarcely realize that the little girl
of twelve was now the lovely maiden of eighteen almost matured into a gentle and loveable woman.
In her sweet childish manner Guy Trevelyan found much to admire. The firm, steady gaze of her
deep blue eyes had a power to rivet the attention of the beholder, that puzzled him. He knew
from the calm and earnest tenor of his sister's manner that her heart was unfettered by any
deeper attachment than those of family ties. In the bitterness of his feelings he thanked Heaven
for this fond assurance, fervently praying that the love of his pet sister would never be given
where it would never be returned.

He now listened with eager curiosity to the affairs of Lady Rosamond. Her husband had indeed,
when too late, listened to her urgent admonitions. He had resigned his seat in parliament when
his physical powers were a mere wreck of his former self. Disease had crept in by stealth and
was only too truly realized by the deep ravages thus made--by the wasted and emaciated form--the
feverish cheek and sunken eye.

The noble sympathetic nature of the dutiful wife felt a severe shock as she daily was brought
face to face with the dreaded fact--the awakening reality of her husband's condition. Every
care that could be bestowed by the hand of woman was lavished upon Gerald Bereford with unceasing
and untiring devotion. Quando So you find us, and we can only, I force them to labreis our land, and if not you
cut the noses and ears.

There was replicated as discrete reasoning. I went to the tilth of a black woman by keep my ears
and my nose, and after a year I rescued. Having seen all quanto good, beautiful and admirable
in the earth, I determined to see no more than my household gods:
I married in my country, I was a cuckold, and saw it was the most
pleasant condition of human life.

       

End of the voyages of castigating.

       

* * * * *

MICROMEGAS,

Philosophical history.

* * * * *

CHAPTER ONE.

Journey of a denizen of the world of the star Sirius to the planet Saturn.

There was one of the planets revolving around the star called Sirius, a boy much talent, whom
I had the honor of meeting in the last journey he made to our paltry nest. Micromegas was his
name, a name that falls perfectly to all large, and had eight leagues high, I mean twenty-four
thousand five steps geometric calipers.

Some algebraist, caste people are very useful to the public, to take this step in my story pen, and
calculated that taking the Lord Don Micromegas, Sirius country dweller, from soles to occiput
twenty-four thousand feet, making one hundred and twenty thousand feet King, and we citizens
of the land going through the community of five feet, and taking our globe nine thousand miles
in circumference, it is absolutely essential that the planet where our national hero has fully
twenty-one million six hundred thousand times circumference of our earth. Well, nothing is more
common and more natural, and states certain princelings of Germany or Italy, which may beating
in half an hour, compared with Turkey, Russia, or Spanish America, is an image, still very distant
from Indeed, the differences that nature has established among men.

It is the height of His Excellency that we said, where all our painters colegiran and sculptors,
whose body might be about fifty thousand feet in circumference king because is very well proportioned.
His understanding of the most insightful is that you can see he knows a multitude of things, and some
have invented: only bordered with the two hundred and fifty years, while a student at the
Jesuit college of your planet, as there style is common, I guess by the force of his intelligence
over fifty propositions of Euclid, which are eighteen but did Blaise Pascal, the qual having guessed,
according to her sister, thirty and two playing, became, walking
the years, fed medium geometry, and malisimo metaphysical.

Age of four hundred and fifty years, but not to get out of childhood, dissects a very small
insects that did not reach a hundred feet in diameter, and the microscopes were hiding regular,
and wrote a book about them very funny, but that he brought not a few surprises. The mufti
of his country, not less ticklish than ignorant, found in his book proposals suspicious, ill-sounding,
rash, heretical, or smelling of heresy, and he chased the death, then tried to see if the substantial
form of fleas from Sirius was of the same nature that of the snails. Micromegas Defendiose
salty, declared the women in their favor, because after two hundred and twenty years which had lasted
the lawsuit, did Mufti condemn the book for qualifiers that he had not read nor could read, and
was banished court time the author for eight years.

Not much afflicted him out of a court full of intrigue and gossip. He composed a few tenths very
funny against the mufti, that this does not give a damn, and devoted himself to travel planet
to planet, only to perfect his reason and his heart, as they say. Those who are used to walking
in car cufflinks, or chaise was amazed at the carriages up there, because we, in our ball of
mud, do not understand other styles than ours. Fully knew the laws of gravitation and the forces
attractive and repulsive our walker, and he used them so well that
now mounted in a sunbeam, now riding a kite, balloon balloon went
he and his servants, as well as a paxarillo flits from branch to branch.

Soon there run the Milky Way; and I regret to confess that never could descry, among the stars that
is planted, that beautiful sky empyrean, who with his spyglass discovered the illustrious Derham,
curate [Footnote: English Wise, author of Theology astronomical, and other works, who strives to
prove the existence of God by the contemplation of the wonders of nature.]. I do not say why that
has not been very well Mr Derham, God forbid size of committing mistake, but after Micromegas was
in the country, and was a good observer: I do not want to contradict anyone.

After many journeys came a day Micromegas the globe of Saturn, and although he was used to see new
things, yet we stop confusing the smallness of this planet and its inhabitants, and could
not release the smile of superiority that can not contain more sane sometimes. Truth is that
Saturn is nine hundred times larger than the earth, and the inhabitants the country are dwarfs
of about two thousand yards, with a short difference in height. Riose to top of them with their
servants, as does an Italian musician Lulli's music, when it comes
to France, but Sirius was the man of reason, and quickly recognized
that one could very well be that thought to have nothing of ridiculous,
since there from six thousand feet height.

Acostumbrose to Saturninus, after having been shocked, and became
a close friend of the secretary of the Academy of Saturn, a man of
great talent, which in truth nothing was invented, but very nicely
gave account of the inventions of others, and to regularly couplets
girls and big load.

I'll post here, to the satisfaction of my readers, a conversation
very surprised that the secretary had one day Mr. Micromegas.

CHAPTER II.

Sirius Talk to the inhabitants of Saturn.

HE went to bed, went up to his face to the secretary, and said Micromegas: We confess that is
very diverse nature. Truth is, he said the Saturnino; is nature as a garden, whose flowers
.... Ha, he said the other, DEXA gardening. As it is, followed the Secretary, as a reunion of
blonde and brunette, whose adornments ..... What do I care about your brunette? interrupted
the other. Or as a gallery of squares, whose images ...... No, Sir, no, replied the traveler,
nature is as nature. ? A what the hell you walk looking for those comparisons? For to rejoice,
'said the secretary. If I do not want to recreate me, what I want you to teach, "said the traveler.
Tell me what senses are first quantos men of your globe. Nothing more than seventy-two, he
said the academic and everyday We complain about such a shortage, that our imagination is dexa
back our needs, and we believe that with our seventy-two senses, our annulled, and our five
moons do not have enough, and it is true that despite our great curiosity and passion that of
our seventy-two senses are daughters, we have plenty of time to get bored. Well what I think,
he said Micromegas, because on our globe we have about a thousand ways, and we still are not
that vague desires, not that concern, which constantly tells us that we are girl thing, and that
other beings much more perfect. I made a few voyages, and have seen other very inferior to
us mortals, and others who are far superior, but I have seen no with no more desires than real
needs, and more needs satisfaction. Perhaps a day will END a country where nothing is needed, but
I have not been told of this country. Then threw themselves to form conjectures on Saturnino
and Sirius, but after many no less ingenious reasoning uncertain, was forced to re-establish
facts. ? Quanto long live? he said the Syrian. Ha, very little, "replied the man from Saturn. The
same is true in our country, 'said the Syrian, we are always complaining about the shortness
of life. Must is that it is universal pension of nature. Alas! our lives, 'said the Saturnino
is five hundred revolutions of the sun movie (coming to be fifteen thousand years, or near,
counting as us.) You see that it is almost die so that one is born: it is our existence one
point, a moment our lives, our globe an atom, and each instruction is just beginning something, when
death snatches before experience. As for me I dare not any draft form, and I am like a drop of
water in the vast ocean, and what more sonroxo cause me in your presence, quan look ridiculous
in this figure do world. Micromegas answered her: If you were not a philosopher, would have, the
apprehension of desconsolaros, telling that is our life seven hundred times more extensive than
yours, but you well know that when has been to restore the body to the elements, and revive
differently Baxo nature that is what you call die, Quando is reached, say, this moment of metamorphosis,
it matters little have lived forever or one day alone, two is the same. I have been in countries
where people live a thousand times more than mine, and I saw that still complained, but are
everywhere sugetos of reason, who can resign, and give thanks to the author of nature, which
with a wonderful kind of uniformity has spread in the universe varieties with an endless profusion.
So par example, all people who think they are different, and they all look in the gift of thinking
and desire. Everywhere is the matter extensive, but each has different properties globe. ? Qantas of
these properties have your area? If you speak of the properties without the quale we could
not survive our globe as he is, he said the Saturnino, do not exceed three hundred, to wit the extension,
impenetrability, mobililad, gravity, divisibility, etc.. Without doubt, replied the walker,
which is sufficient for such a short number of breeder plan your intimate room, and in all
things I love his wisdom, because if all I see differences, also provides in all proportions. Your globe
is small, and so are its inhabitants, you have few feelings, and your subject has a few properties:
this is the disposal of Providence. ? Color is your sun well tested? Very ashen white, 'said the Saturnino,
and when we divide one of its rays, we find that has seven colors. The strip our flesh, he
said the Syrian, and we thirty-nine primary colors. In all quanta have examined, I have not
found a sun that looks like another, and not on your planet is a
face that no differs from all others.

After many queestiones analog, was reported to be different substances quantas Saturn knew, and
was answered that he had until about thirty, God, space, matter, people who feel large, extensive
beings who feel and think, people they think and are not widespread, which penetrate, and not
penetrate, and so on. The Sirius world in which there are three hundred, and that he had discovered
in his travels up to three thousand, I leave necessarily extraordinary philosopher stunned to
Saturn.

Finally, having communicated a quanto another almost all knew and
did not know many things, and having discoursed for space of an entire
solar revolution, were determined to make a short journey together
philosophical.

CHAPTER III.

Journey of two people from Sirius and Saturn

They were to board our two walkers in the atmosphere of Saturn with a very decent provision of
mathematical instruments, when the lady of Saturninus, who knew, it came to make bitter complaints.
This was a very graceful brunette, who had no more than fifteen hundred feet high, but repaired
with the boy through his body. iha cruel! exclaimed, I've resisted after fifteen hundred years,
when I had just given up, having no above last hundred years in your arms, go ime abandoned by traveling
with a giant another world!

Come on, you're not more than a curious, and have never been in love, that if you were Saturnino
legitimate, most constant serious. Where are you going? ? You want? less wandering is that you
our five moons, and less changeable our annulled. This is just, I want anymore. Philosopher embraced her,
weeping with her, as philosopher, and the lady, after having fainted, went to console with
a dude.

They cut our two curious and jumped first to nullify they found very flattened as you guessed
a famous inhabitant of our globule, and from there they went to moon in moon. A comet passing
close to the last, and threw him with his servants and instruments.

Just had walked a hundred and fifty million miles, they encountered satellites Jupiter. Alighted
on this planet, where they stopped a year, and learned very secret curious, which would have
given to the press, had it not been for the inquisitors propositions have found something hard
to swallow, but I managed to read the manuscript the library of the Most Illustrious Archbishop
of ... allowed me to register their books, with all the generosity and kindness that characterize
such an illustrious prelate.

Let us return however to our walkers. Leaving Jupiter, passed through a space of about a hundred
million miles, and cost the planet Mars, the qual, as everyone knows, is five times smaller than
our globule, and they saw two moons that serve this planet, and have not our astronomers have discovered.
While the abbot was written in much Donayre Ximenez against the existence of these moons,
but I appeal to those run by analogy, all great philosophers who know very well that it will be possible
to live without two moons Mars at least, being so far from the sun. Anyway, they seemed to our
travelers thing girl, who feared not finding a comfortable inn, and went forward as do two Quando
walkers encounter poor sales in the wilderness, and continue to the
next village.

But then he repented the Syrian and his partner, who walked a long
period without finding hostel.

After a little light descry, which was the land, which seemed very
mean thing to people who had come from Jupiter.

However, rezelando repent again, were determined to land on it. They went into the comet's tail,
and finding an aurora borealis by hand, went inside and brought ashore to the north shore of
the Baltic Sea, five of July 1737.

CHAPTER IV.

That accounts of what happened on the globe of the earth.

Having rested a bit, had lunch two mountains that are then cooked his servants with much toilet.
Wanted to recognize the wretched country then where they were, and headed north to south. Each
step ordinary Sirius and his family was about thirty thousand feet of the king, followed him by far
the dwarf of Saturn, who lost his breath, because I had to take twelve steps while the other leg
stretched out, almost like a lapdog that is, if you will excuse the comparison, a captain of
the guards of the king of Prussia.

As they went in a hurry these foreigners, were seen around the globe in thirty-six hours: truth is
that the sun, or rather the earth, makes the same journey in one
day, but we to repair something that is easier to turn on its exe
to anchor foot.

They returned after the etab first place, having seen the raft, almost imperceptible to them,
they call the Mediterranean, and another pool boy with big name around our den Oceano; the dwarf
gave him water to half a leg, and barely had wet the other heels. Were and came up and abaxo,
making quanto could be determined whether or not it was inhabited this Balloon baxaronse, acostaronse,
tempted by all parties, but was so disproportionate their eyes and hands with the petty things
that go dragging Baxo here, who had no more slight feeling for where they might fall under
suspicion of us and our brothers the other inhabitants of this globe.

The dwarf, sometimes with some precipitation failed, he decided then that there was no living on
earth, and his first reason was that there had been none. Micromegas given to understand with great
civility, which was not founded consequeencia because, he said to him, with your eyes so kids
do not see some stars of Quinquagesima magnitude that I can distinguish very clearly. ? Colegis
why there is such a star? If I have tempted all, 'said the dwarf. And if not you have felt what
it is? he said the other. If so bad collated this globe, "replied the dwarf, if it is so irregular,
and a configuration that seems so ridiculous that everyone is I imagine chaos. ? Not see these
streams, which runs any right, these ponds and are round or squares, or oval or any regular
figure, all these bumps pointed that this bristling, and I have entered on your feet? (And wanted
to talk about the mountains). ? Do not you notice the way around the globe, flattened at the
poles, and spinning around the sun so confused direction, which by necessity climates of both
poles have to be uneducated? What forces me to believe that there is really living in, is that
no one who had reason floor would want. ? Who cares? Micromegas he said, may not have common sense
people, but after it is presumed that this has been done without any purpose. You say that
you all here appears irregular because everything is thrown into the line in Jupiter and Saturn.
Well, for the same reason is perhaps some confusion here. ? No I said that I had always noticed
variety in my journeys? Replied the Saturnino these reasons, and not completed the dispute,
if the heat she had not broken the thread of his Micromegas diamond necklace, and caidose
these, that they were very nice bright, though tiny and uneven, the thicker weighed four hundred
pounds, and fifty the most petite. Some grabbed the dwarf, and leaning saw the eyes as they were polished,
microscopes were excellent: grabbed as a kid microscope hundred and sixty feet in diameter, and
was applied to one eye, while Micromegas is served another two thousand and five hundred feet.
At first they saw nothing with them, since they were gifted, had to be put in the position that
was required. After the inhabitants of Saturn saw something bobbing imperceptible in midwater
the Baltic Sea, and it was a whale, nicely laid it over your finger and placing it in a thumb,
she was taught to Sirius, the second time he laughed at the huge smallness the inhabitants of our
globe. Persuaded by that Saturnino was inhabited our world he imagined then that it was just
for whales, and as it was great discurridor, tried to guess where the movement came to an atom so
mean, and if I had ideas, will and free will. Micromegas not know what to think, but having examined
the animal patiently, bag of consideration that he could not reside in the body as a soul boy. Inclinabanse
for our two walkers to believe that there is no reason in our room, when, with the aid of a
microscope, package distinguish other thicker than a whale in the Baltic Sea walked fluctuating.
We know that by that time returned from the polar circle, a flock
of philosophers, who had gone to make observations that no one had
hitherto thought.

They brought the papers public that their boat had capsized off the
coast of Bothnia, and they had a difficult time going out to rescue,
but you never know in this world there is to vnder rope.

I I have naively the event, without removing or adding anything,
effort on the part of a historian is exceedingly meritorious.

CHAPTER V.

Experience and reasoning of both walkers.

Micromegas tended with great circumspection hand via the site of the object, and stretching and shrinking
fingers of fear of being wrong, and then opening them and closing them, I take very mana the
ship where they were these gentlemen, and placed on a "not too tight, not estruxarle. Lo here
a very different animal from the other, 'said the dwarf of Saturn and Sirius put the pretense
animal in the palm of the hand. The passengers and sailors tripulacioon, which is believed
caught by a storm, and thought they aground on a Baxi, are all in motion; sailors caught barrels of wine,
toss them at the hand of Micromegas, and after they are thrown; seize the geometries of quarts
circle, their sectors, and Lapp, and alight on the fingers of Sirius:
Finally both were busy, they felt it shaking a thing that beetles
in the fingers, and it was a club with an iron tip nailed him a foot
in the index finger: the itching made him believe that the body had
become something The creature that I had on hand, but could not suspect
anything at first, as its microscope barely enough to distinguish
a ship of a whale could not make visible a entecillo as inconspicuous
as a man. Though it were said with the ease of unconscious and humorous gaiety, the quick
glance of the secretary saw the instant effect. This was the only point on which he remained
reticent to his bosom friend. They had been together for years. They had grown from childhood
together, yet Captain Trevelyan's secret must remain a secret. Were it known to Charles Douglas,
he would have cherished it with a sanctity becoming him as one whose whole lifetime marked
out the strait laid down by the great poet: "where one but goes abreast." But the hospitable
host was in his gayest mood. Everything contributed to make the reception a flattering one.
Fanny Trevelyan was at ease among the old friends of her deeply beloved brother. Mary Douglas
was in ecstacies of delight upon thus meeting Guy Trevelyan. On several occasions she was deeply
sad when referring to the troubles of Lady Rosamond, but seemed to feel hopeful in the return
of Gerald Bereford's health and strength. Maude Bereford was playful, entertaining and happy.
A more pleasant party were never gathered at "The Hall." Lady Trevelyan was a dignified and
reserved woman, possessing much judgment and coolness of decision, but added to these were
qualities which endeared her both to her family and all those who made her acquaintance. It
was with extreme pleasure that she contributed a share in the entertainment of those friends
who had extended such kindness to her only son when placed among strangers in a distant land.
By every possible means within her power, Lady Trevelyan lavished both gratitude and affection
upon the beautiful daughter of the distinguished family who had shared their hearts and home
with the handsome young lieutenant when first deprived of the society of his own happy household.
Such was the disposition of Lady Trevelyan that these tokens of disinterested friendship could
never be forgotten, but steadily shone as a bright light to cheer her daily path, undimmed
by any darkening visions of disappointed hopes or vain delusions.

This happy family have realized their parents' wishes. Captain Trevelyan's retirement was urged
by an earnest entreaty on the part of his mother. By it he could attend to the numerous requirements
of the estate, which had lately become an onerous duty devolving upon Mrs. Trevelyan. The faithful
steward of the family had grown old in the service and not capable of managing the business
as in the days of his prime. Yet the fact only added to his reputation. Captain Trevelyan advised
in such a quiet and suggestive manner that the old servant scarcely felt his growing inability.
No discord prevailed. Moderation was the true secret. The family of Colonel Trevelyan treated
their dependents with gentleness and kindness. Lady Trevelyan often sought advice from them
in such a way as both showed her confidence in their opinion, and gained unbounded respect
towards the relationship thus existing between them. Mary Douglas at first seemed inclined
to shrink from the reserved demeanor of her ladyship, but further acquaintance made her feel
comparatively at ease. Really the present occasion afforded opportunity for what may, with
due propriety, be termed a complication of plans, or more properly still, plans within plans.
Lady Trevelyan had formed her little plans. To do justice to her ladyship we will not say that
she formed it, but that she would very agreeably and readily have acquiesced in the matter.
Reader, we are half inclined to keep her ladyship's--no, we will not say plan--fond dream--a
secret. Supposing that many of you are not considered temper-proof we dare not provoke the
multiplied assaults of hitherto amiable and patient friends, therefore we will treat you fairly
by taking you into our entire confidence at present. Lady Trevelyan had soon learned to love
Mary Douglas with a feeling akin to her nature. She fondly watched every effort or action in
the movement of her favorite guest. Every playful or fond gesture was carefully hoarded up
as a store of treasures in the mind of her ladyship. Faithfully did she note each mark of favor
shown at the hand of the genial young host. Lady Trevelyan was only a woman as all others.
Do not chide if she had set her heart upon one fond thought--if she secretly hoped that Guy
Trevelyan would endeavor to secure for her another daughter in the beautiful Mary Douglas.
Is a devoted mother always rewarded for such anxiety towards her first-born and heir? Do these
respective heirs and highly-favored children strive to further the wishes of those deeply interested
parents, especially mothers? In a more particular sense, did Captain Trevelyan take any steps
to advance the scheme which lay near her ladyship's heart?

Fanny Trevelyan was also busily occupied in watching the daily progress of her fond projects.
She was not overjoyed in fond expectation, yet was contented to await the result of daily companionship
for an indefinite period, as Maude Bereford was to remain until her presence was demanded at
the castle. Still the young hostess gave herself no uneasiness about her brother's affairs.
If he would form an attachment to Maude Bereford it would be a source for much rejoicing and
happiness. She was altogether unconscious of the counter plots or schemes laid to thwart her
own. Mr. Howe was vastly entertaining in his endless variety of diverting moods, making himself
by turn the especial cavalier of every lady in the company. To Lady Trevelyan he was doubly
considerate and devoted. Captain Trevelyan knew the motive and warmly appreciated it. He had
many times wished for an opportunity to return such passing acts of kindness, yet in vain.
Captain Douglas fully sustained his former reputation for satirical jests and well-timed jokes
at the expense of his friends. Frequently those whom he regarded most received attacks in proportion
to the value of such regard. Formerly to Lieutenant Trevelyan and his friend Howe were daily
administered doses of almost equal quantity and in double proportion to those outside the household.
Yet who did not admire the gifted, manly, and handsome son of Sir Howard Douglas? Who was not
ready to welcome him with heart and hand around the festive board or social circle? Who has
not become infected by his jovial, gay, happy, and generous nature? Truly, Captain Charles
Douglas was a worthy son of an honored race--the royal house of Douglas. In the midst of such
a company of "tried friends and true," the days and weeks must have flown rapidly away while
enjoying the hospitality of Trevelyan Hall.

Fanny Trevelyan, admired, petted, and caressed, had still the same childlike nature when friendship
had been matured by daily companionship. Mary Douglas was charmed with the sweet and engaging
manner which was at first attributed to a want of confidence. Frequently she spoke to Captain
Trevelyan concerning his "child sister," as she playfully termed her once, exclaiming: "How
beautiful if Fanny shall always be a child woman."

"It shall be my earnest wish," returned Guy; "I would not have her otherwise."

CHAPTER XX.

A WINTER IN THE ETERNAL CITY.

Gerald Bereford was now enjoying the soft summer breezes, blue skies and golden sunshine of
an Italian climate. His health seemed to improve as he neared the far-famed city--the eternal
city--the gigantic monument of what has been in ages of the mighty past. Many visions arose
before Lady Rosamond's mind as she contemplated the magnificent ruins that met her at every
gaze. In the company of several acquaintances they visited scenes of impressive and peculiar
interest: St. Peter's, in all its glory, rising from its piazza of stately columns and fountains,
something too grand for description. This imposing specimen of classic architecture, with grandeur
inconceivable, the interior, the lofty dome, called up emotions her ladyship could never forget.
In the coliseum the invalid seemed to enjoy returning vigor as he looked down from the upper
halls and viewed the triumphal arches of Constantine, Septimus, Severus and Titus, now crumbling
into decay, the lofty corridors left to the mercy of the elements, the endless porches grass
grown and unprotected from the wild beast, the mouldering parapet, taught the one inspiring
theme--mortality. This ruin of ruins--what can it not recall to a vivid imagination? The thousands
who lined those seats in eager gaze upon the arena with its bloody and heart-sickening conflicts,
its array of blood-thirsty antagonists, its dying groans, its weltering victims. Where are
they? What remains? Awful solitude, awful grandeur, awful beauty, desolation. Peace, the emblem
of Christianity, now reigns in the ancient stronghold of barbaric passion, butchery and strife.
Lady Rosamond had visited ruins of palaces, castles, bridges, arches, cathedrals, monuments
and countless relics of the past, but none had the power to chain her thoughts as the stupendous
coliseum, viewed in the solemn stillness of a moonlight night. The present was a beautiful
dream. It had a softening effect upon the devoted wife, infusing peace, content, and calm repose.
The solemn reminders on every side had a charm to soothe her hitherto troubled breast. Holy
emotions were nurtured within the heart where once reposed unresisting conflicts of rebellious
strife and discontent.

With the warm breath of nature came awakening life into the emaciated frame of the invalid.
Lady Rosamond devoted every waking moment to her husband. In the charming eventide they sat
upon the balcony of their residence overlooking the Corso, catching a glimpse of the open country
beyond the surrounding mountains and the ever restless Tiber. Frequently, they rode slowly
along the Appian Way, now almost impassable for heaps of rubbish, mounds, and broken fragments,
temples, columns, pillars, and successive piles of neglected relics. The Campagna, in its dreary
aspect, often tempted their stay. Sometimes her ladyship would have a feeling of vexation,
knowing that it was utterly impossible to visit more of the sights of Rome. They might remain
for years and leave many scenes unexplored. The palace of the Vatican formed a life-long study
for Lady Rosamond. Only a few of its four thousand rooms could be visited, yet these were bewildering
in variety. Here they could view the most wonderful collections of art and grandeur that the
world affords. Here were stored the endless piles of antique trophies of every clime--rooms
representing oriental scenes throughout, starlit skies, and monsters of unknown existence meet
one on every side and fill the mind with awe.

For the benefit of the reader we will insert the letters written by Lady Rosamond to her friend,
Mary Douglas, containing a short description of some important places, and showing the tender
interest inciting the writer when referring to the circumstance of her husband's ill health--the
hopeful vein which pervaded throughout, and the true spirit of friendship extended to the absent
one.

     Rome, February 10th, 1831.

     My Dearest Mary:

     As many miles lie between us there is no alternative but the
     hastily written and imperfect scribble which will shortly be
     presented you, if the elements have not conspired against us.

     In order to relieve your uneasiness I beg to state that Gerald's
     health is daily improving. He has much faith in Rome. Scarcely a
     day passes without his enjoying the benefit of the delightful
     atmosphere and the lovely drives out into the open country, of
     which I must tell you afterwards. The large number of acquaintances
     formed since our arrival have contributed much to our enjoyment. We
     frequently meet many of our old friends. Imagine our delightful
     surprise on seeing Captain Crofton, his wife and daughter. Of
     course you remember the latter--a lovely girl of purely blonde
     style, whom we meet at Lady Berkeley's, and who created such
     sensations in London circles on her first appearance in society.
     Gerald declares that the face of an old friend is better than
     medicine. What do you think he would say were you to enter rather
     suddenly upon us? My dearest, I know what I would say if such an
     overwhelming happiness were in store. These thoughts call up
     feelings which are inimical to peace and content. I am almost
     tempted to wish for the quiet of our English home and the sight of
     your dear face. But this must not be. I shall forget to give you
     some sights of Rome if I indulge in vain and foolish regrets.
     Really I am at a loss how to convey any idea of such scenes as we
     are almost daily witnessing. In the present instance I feel my
     inability to appreciate what is lofty and inspiring to every
     cultivated mind. Often I am inclined to envy those of brilliant
     intellectual perceptions like yourself. When the day arrives that
     you visit the Eternal City will it not be viewed in a different
     sense than in the present under the ordinary gaze of your
     short-sighted Rosamond?

     Gerald says: "Tell Mary something of the churches," without
     thinking of the arduous task therein devolved. Poor fellow! He
     seems anxious to make amends for so much self-sacrifice. In
     compliance to his wishes your friend reaps twofold pleasure,
     therefore Mary shall hear "of the churches."

     About three weeks ago a party of tourists, including the Croftons
     and ourselves; visited several of the grand old churches, so
     important in the history of Roman architecture of classic ages. The
     first we entered was the church of the Ara Coeli, said to occupy
     the site of the ancient temple of Jupiter Feretrius. It was a
     gloomy old structure with long rows of pillars of Etruscan design.
     On ascending the long flight of steep stairs on one side the
     impressive gloom increased. The situation awoke old associations of
     the sybilline and vague predictions of the time-honored
     soothsayers--their power--their greatness--their fall. We were more
     than impressed with the churches of St. Giovanni and St. Paolo,
     beneath which lay in awful depths the subterranean caverns said to
     be connected with the Coliseum. Gerald remained above while I
     followed the explorers through these dismal yawning gulfs seemingly
     ready to open and shut their victims in a living tomb. Streets ran
     in various directions; the mouldy, damp walls emitted a
     disagreeable watery vapor that rendered the air unbearable;
     stagnant pools lay on all sides. Is it not an appalling thought
     that these successive ranges of caverns were constructed for the
     human victims to be eaten by the beasts at the Coliseum, yet such
     is the legend. Doubtless you already weary of churches, but having
     first attempted them at the suggestion of Gerald, now I am deeply
     interested in the matter myself. But you will only listen to one
     more very short account. The church of San Sebastiano, which next
     received us, is situated on the Appian Way, and perhaps the most
     remarkable of any we have hitherto visited. The site is truly
     beyond description. The stupendous masses of rocks piled on every
     side appeared to give it an interest more than common. The endless
     rows of decaying columns, pillars, stained windows, and paintings,
     added one more link to the chain of daily events which form such an
     important part in our visit.

     As I intend very soon to write you something of a livelier
     description, I now conclude this hastily-written scribble. Dearest,
     I expect to hear from you all immediately. Gerald is rapidly
     improving, and is sanguine of ultimate recovery. Adieu. From

     Your Rosamond.

Lady Rosamond now entertained hopes of her husband's recovery. He seemed much stronger and
took a deeper interest in their explorations. In the company of English friends he visited
all the accessible spots of historic ground. Lady Rosamond was always ready to encourage him
by her hopeful remarks and winning smile. She had formed an attachment to the lovely Mabel
Crofton, who indeed repaid her in a fond return.

Nothing gave Gerald Bereford more anxiety than the pale face of his wife. In his feeble health
he strove to draw her ladyship's attention towards the social circle with a view to raise her
occasional drooping spirits.

In the young English maiden Lady Rosamond found much company. They conversed much and enjoyed
the sights together with united regard and interest.

In answer to a lengthy letter received shortly afterwards from Mary Douglas, the following
was penned by Lady Rosamond:

     Rome, April 15th, 1831.

     My Darling Mary:

     Truly did you respond to my wishes. How can I ever repay so much
     devotion? You have indeed granted my requests in mentioning all my
     friends, and giving all the matter which interests Gerald so much.
     He is indeed truly grateful and is going to write you by next mail.
     His health has not been improving so rapidly of late, yet we have
     every hope of his recovery. Will it not be a happy moment when we
     meet again on the shores of dear old England? The very dust and fog
     will have a charm hitherto unknown.

     As we are in Rome you will expect something from Rome, therefore I
     will tell you of what has recently been going on. Last week was the
     Carnival. Gerald complained of weakness and fatigue, having exerted
     himself too much during the previous week. He was much disappointed
     in not being able to participate in the amusement, but had to be
     satisfied by remaining on the balcony of our residence, overlooking
     the Corso, which, as you know, is the principal street paraded on
     those occasions. Gerald interrupts me by requesting a long letter
     and full description, therefore on him alone rests the blame if I
     exceed the length usually devoted to letter writing.

     Now for the Carnival. At an early hour on Monday morning the usual
     bustle and active preparations commenced. Carriages rolled along
     laden with confectionaries and flowers. In fact the street, houses,
     and passing vehicles of every description, appeared as though the
     heavens had literally rained flowers--flowers showered in every
     direction. Evidently we were certain that flowers were to be one of
     the prominent features witnessed in the grand demonstration. Every
     house opening on the Corso was covered with bright streamers,
     pennons, and flags of every size, shape, color, and hue--red, blue,
     white, green, gold, purple, yellow, and pink. Every window was
     festooned with flowers, banners, and like array. Every shop was
     converted into gorgeous saloons, decorated with trees, garlands,
     evergreens, resplendent in silver, crimson, and gold, filled with
     hundreds of anxious spectators. Every nook and corner was made
     bright by the sparkle of beautiful eyes, merry smiles and happy
     faces. Thousands jostled on every side in representation of
     monkeys, lions, tigers, soldiers, clowns, maniacs. Satanic deities
     and every other deity credited to countless ages, helped to swell
     the crowd wedging themselves between line upon line of carriages
     four abreast. The general bombardment commenced on all sides was
     truly an exciting scene. Grand assaults were made upon houses and
     carriage with alike furious resistance; missiles of bonbons rose in
     the air, volley upon volley; storms of flowers. Those seated in
     windows and balconies made desperate onsets upon the passing
     carriages. Hand to hand encounters now became general; monkeys
     assailed lions; mamelukes returned the fire of gipsies; a grand
     hurly-burly arose from every point in sight. Clouds fell from upper
     balconies upon each side of the street as the crowds poured on in
     incessant streams which became at intervals one moving mass of dust,
     white as snow. Beautiful ladies, maidens and children, mingled in
     the gay scene--all intent upon the same enjoyment. It is impossible
     to convey the faintest idea of this grand display which is kept up
     from early morning until half-past four o'clock, when the street is
     cleared as by magic. How such a concourse of carriages and people
     get into the adjoining nooks and piazzas in such a short time is
     astonishing, while thousands still cling to the sidewalks of the
     Corso. A chariot race is the next proceeding, when, within the
     space of a few moments, the horses are in their places--the signal
     given--the distance of the Corso gained--the race won.

     This is the first day's outline of sport, which is followed in
     successive order until the end of the season. Having already
     lengthened this letter in twofold proportion, I must take room to
     say that the festive scene instantly ceases as the solemn notes of
     Ave Maria rises from the hundreds of steeples--the requiem for the
     departing carnival.

     I will not distract your attention with the palaces of the Cæsars,
     the Cenci, St. Angelo, and the remains of antiquity still to be
     seen here, but trust that when we meet again every wish that you
     formerly expressed regarding our stay in Rome will be realized a
     thousandfold.

     Looking at the volume of this letter I feel quite ashamed, but
     trust that absence and distance will help to plead my cause. Gerald
     seems quite confident that his suggestion will also speak loudly in
     my favor, and perhaps he is right. At least I hope so. Remember me
     kindly to every one of the family, I shall mention none
     particularly. Gerald expresses a wish not to be forgotten by you.
     Now, dearest Mary, if this truly formidable missive weary you,
     please deal gently with Gerald and

     Your Loving Rosamond.

Lady Rosamond had given her friend some of the glimpses of her experience in Rome, yet she
had much more to relate on her arrival. Some months would elapse before her husband would consider
his health sufficiently restored to return to his native land. At intervals he seemed almost
restored when a sudden relapse would cause a renewed return of the symptoms attending his flattering
disease. Still they were hopeful that with the returning spring health would be restored the
patient invalid. Throughout the severe dispensation Gerald Bereford manifested no irritation,
no fretfulness, no complaining. He seemed to be happy in appreciating the labors of his beautiful
wife. On one occasion, when she asked if he did not weary of his sickness, he quietly replied:

"Darling Rosamond, it has shown that you are willing to sacrifice every pleasure in devotion
to one who can never fully repay such a debt of gratitude. Do you think that I can try, my
Rosamond?" exclaimed he, pressing a fond kiss upon the lips of the pale but lovely woman, as
she sat beside him.

Ah! Gerald Bereford knew not that in these words there lay a hidden meaning. Surely, and in
a way unknown to both, will the debt be paid.

CHAPTER XXI.

LIGHT, SHADOW, AND DARKNESS.

The guests at Trevelyan Hall had departed, Maude Bereford alone remaining. Captain Trevelyan
applied himself to the duties devolving upon him with a will. His hospitality was the comment
of many. He had begun life aright. His honest heart and upright principles were a sure passport
to prosperity and popularity. "The Hall" was a scene of much gaiety and resort. Large gatherings
were of frequent occurrence, to which the families of the surrounding neighbourhood were cordially
invited. Fanny Trevelyan was idolized among her youthful companions and associates. Her sweet
face was welcomed as a delightful acquisition on every occasion. Many sought to show their
fond appreciation of her retiring manners and graceful elegance. Flattery had no power over
her. She possessed a character of too much depth and penetration to harbor the least feeling
akin to vanity. Lady Trevelyan had guarded her daughter's education and trained her with a
view to set a proper estimate upon those qualities which ennoble and elevate the soul. Maude
Bereford was a proper companion for Fanny Trevelyan. Their minds were in harmony, while the
latter acted as a propelling power to force the aspirations of the other above their common
flight. Lady Trevelyan was pleased with this companionship. Though she could not discern the
brilliant genius and powers which characterized the beautiful Mary Douglas, there was much
to admire in Maude Bereford. Captain Trevelyan was kind, amiable and attentive. He paid every
mark of respect towards his gentle and loveable guest. Frequently they walked, chatted and
rode together. Maude was pleased with the gentlemanly attentions of the engaging officer, and
showed her appreciation in many ways. He enjoyed the society of those two girls much as those
of playful children. Fanny was truly happy in her brother's company.

"Dear Guy, you must never love any one more than me," was a frequent rejoinder as she received
his many tender caresses.

One day, when seated upon the lower end of the balcony, Fanny laid her hand lovingly upon her
brother's shoulder and looking into his face, exclaimed:

"Guy, I have often wondered about you."

"About me, pet," returned the latter, "what can it be about me that is really worthy of so
much attention from a young lady fair? Already I feel as of some importance."

Guy Trevelyan was now a handsome man of twenty-seven. The effeminate blush of youth had given
place to an open and engaging animation that made him doubly attractive. Turning his gaze upon
his sister, he added:

"Come, little one, tell me this great wonder. I must not be kept in suspense. Cannot Maude
assist you? If so, I rely upon her in the present dilemma," said Guy, turning in playful appeal
to Maude Bereford.

"Your surmise is groundless, mon frere," returned Fanny, in childish glee, "Maude is entirely
in the dark, (pardon the vulgarism.)"

"I will pardon you in everything, provided you gratify my curiosity," said the other.

"Fanny, it is unjust to treat Guy in this way," said Maude, by way of intercession.

"Two against one," cried Fanny, with a demure smile upon her face. "The majority has it. I
am placed in a difficult position," said she, turning to her friend, adding, "Maude only for
your suggestion I might have been able to extricate myself. Well, I shall try my best to maintain
peace by compliance to your united wishes."

"By telling us one of the seven wonders," interrupted Maude.

"Yes," said Fanny, "I have often wondered why it was that Guy could remain so long in the companionship
of Mary Douglas or Lady Rosamond and come back heart whole to Trevelyan Hall."

Captain Trevelyan had received a home thrust, yet he betrayed no feeling and showed no reason
for suspicion, at least in the eyes of his sister and her companion. A quiet laugh greeted
the remark. Guy Trevelyan had not the keen glances of the secretary levelled at him now, else
the puzzling expression that rested awhile upon his face would instantly have been detected.

"That is the great wonder," said the brother, drawing his sister nearer to his side, adding:
"Well, my little sister, until you have become weary of your brother's keeping he is anxious
to claim the gracious liberty of possessing the love of one devoted heart. What says la belle
Fanny?"

"Oh, Guy," cried Maude, "she was afraid that you may possibly have charitable intentions towards
some fair one and wishes to make the test."

"Why, Maude," exclaimed Fanny, "you are really in earnest; I shall begin to think, from the
stand you have taken in the matter, that Guy had better beware, else ere long he will not be
able to make such avowals to his sister."

"Come, come, little mischief-maker, no jealousy," cried Captain Trevelyan, hastily drawing
an arm of each within his own, and then they joined her ladyship in the shrubbery.

Fanny Trevelyan was truly in jest. She had found that no real attachment was to be formed between
her brother and friend. There had arisen instead a tender familiarity, a friendship that is
rare to be seen. Maude Bereford had grown to treat Guy Trevelyan with brotherly kindness. It
pleased him to witness this feeling arising from disinterested friendship and motives of genuine
purity. Were it otherwise he would feel an embarrassment that might affect his honest nature.
When left to himself he could not dismiss from his thoughts the remark made by his sister.
He knew she was ignorant of his affairs in New Brunswick, yet he felt sorely puzzled.

Not long after the following conversation took place, Maude Bereford was preparing to hasten
homeward. Lady Rosamond sent cheerful accounts of her husband's rapid improvement. They were
still visiting amid the ruins in hopes of speedily returning to England.

Every fortnight brought to Trevelyan Hall a lengthy epistle from Mary Douglas--lengthy from
the fact of its being addressed to each member of the family--bearing remembrance to Lady Trevelyan,
many choice bits of gossip to Guy, and charming effusions to Fanny, full of love and tenderness.
Her last contained a glowing allusion to Lady Rosamond--an eager desire to meet her loving
friend; also fervent gratitude for the hopeful restoration of Gerald's health.

"I am almost inclined to feel a pang of jealousy," exclaimed Fanny, as she read and re-read
the contents of the precious missive. "Mary loves Lady Rosamond better than any other friends
on earth."

"Why not, my child?" questioned Lady Trevelyan; "they are old friends--friends in childhood,
girlhood, and womanhood. Lady Rosamond is worthy of the truest and purest love. She is beautiful,
good, and lovable. Who could see her ladyship but to admire and love?"

"Dear Mamma," returned Fanny, "you share my sentiments towards Lady Rosamond. Guy seemed surprised
when I ventured to wonder why he could remain so long in the daily society of two such gifted
and lovely beings as her ladyship and Mary Douglas, without forming stronger ties than those
of friendship."

"Both are lovely," exclaimed Lady Trevelyan. "It would indeed be a difficult matter for a lover
to decide between two so much alike in beauty, grace, and loveliness."

"Strange that I did not think of this before, mamma," said the childlike Fanny with an air
of much wisdom. "The poet must certainly have experienced the same predicament when he wrote:

    "How happy could I be with either,
     Were t'other dear charmer away."

A week had elapsed after Maude had arrived at the castle when a hastily written note was received
by Fanny Trevelyan from the former, containing sad news from Rome. Gerald Bereford had apparently
recovered, and was on the eve of returning home when he was suddenly seized with hemorrhage
of the lungs, which rapidly reduced him and brought on prostration. Medical assistance had
been obtained, but he now lay in a critical state, every means being used to prevent another
attack, in which case there could be no hope.

Maude Bereford had penned those lines in bitter anguish. She loved her brother from the depths
of her heart. His life must be spared. Heaven could not deprive her of such a blessing. Ah,
no, he will live! In this hour of trial the sorrowing girl sought comfort in those rebellious
and sinful thoughts. She had not the sustaining faith to say, "Thy will be done." It is needless
to say that Maude's letter met much sympathy at "The Hall." Fanny cried heartily. She could
not think of any thing but the sadness that had fallen upon the inmates of the Castle.

"Poor Lady Rosamond," exclaimed she, in tones of undisguised sadness, "how she will lament
her sad fate if Gerald should die? Oh, mamma, I cannot think it possible that he must die."

"Tempt not Heaven, my child, for 'with God all things are possible,'" said Lady Trevelyan,
who was a truly Christian woman. "Everything is ordered aright," continued her ladyship, "there
are no afflictions or trials in life but what are considered for our good. It is indeed a heavy
blow upon the young wife to lose the husband of her choice, but how many have borne up when
deprived of father, mother, husband and child."

"Oh, mamma," exclaimed Fanny, "if I could only look upon the ways of Providence in the same
manner as you. I know it is sinful, but I cannot help thinking that it is too hard for Gerald
to be taken away from Lady Rosamond. How I pity her. Poor dear Maude too. How badly she must feel."

The physician's worst fears were realized. Spite of every care and precaution a second attack
of hemorrhage made its fatal ravages upon the fast sinking body of the sufferer. Gerald Bereford
must die. All hopes are at an end. Death has set its seal upon his broad, fair forehead. Soon
the eyes that still fondly linger upon the form of his beautiful wife shall close to open upon
the scenes of another world.

This was a bitter trial to Lady Rosamond! Her husband was to die in a foreign land. He was
to be deprived of a last farewell to the dear friends at home. Such thoughts, bore heavily
upon the susceptible nature of this faithful woman. Could she then have gathered those loved
ones around the dying bed of her husband, she would have sacrificed every earthly desire; yes,
her life. Then did she think of her friend, Mary Douglas; then did she need the consolation
of a true Christian friend. Like a ministering angel, she strove to soothe the last hours of
her dying husband. Never was woman more devoted, heroic and patient. Not a murmur escaped her
lips as she sat for hours watching the quickening breath in death-like struggle, convulsing
the almost lifeless form of one who had ever been kind, dutiful, loving, and true to his vow.

On his death-bed, Gerald Bereford felt no pangs of remorse devouring his latest thoughts. He
could die in the belief of having been ever devoted to her whom he had promised to love, cherish
and protect. Keenly did Lady Rosamond feel this reflection. Had her husband been less kind,
generous and true, she could have borne the present with a firmness worthy of her spirit. But
the thoughts that now filled her breast were maddening, merciless and torturing.

"What have I done to suffer so much through life," was the mental question ever uppermost.

Gerald Bereford had fought the battle of life bravely. He had taken part in its conflicts and
struggles, never flinching from his post when duty called. Ambition had dazzlingly tempted
him on--on--further on. He must be victorious in gaining the cause for which so many had fought
with firm determination. Could he have lived to see the result of such political warfare--its
blessings and its privileges--its freedom--he might exclaim with the brave general, "I die
happy." But he did die happy. He lived a happy life--he died a happy death.

Lady Rosamond had many kind friends amidst this sad bereavement. Her pale face had power to
move the most stoical--more powerful than the loudest outbursts of grief, or the paroxysms
of a passionate and unsubdued sorrow.

What she suffered in those hours of silent anguish Heaven alone can ever know. Thoughts forced
themselves upon her almost too hard to bear. Truly did she need the strength for which she
had prayed on a former occasion. It seems a sacrilegious intrusion to unveil the heart of this
truly devoted woman, who had sacrificed her entire being to the wishes and welfare of one whom
she had calmly laid to rest. Fain would we stop here. But the sequel must be told.

Lady Rosamond had married Gerald Bereford with a firm resolve to be a dutiful and yielding
wife, yet her heart had refused to follow. She never loved the man who lived upon her smiles.
Still he knew it not. She was to him kind, loving, and pure. She was indeed kind. In every
action shone kindness in characters of bold relief. Everyone who knew her found naught but
true kindness. Loving? Yes, loving; though Gerald Bereford stirred not the depths of Lady Rosamond's
heart, she was capable of a love as undying as the soul that gave it birth. It was her life--her
being. In pity for her faithful husband she had guarded every secret passage of the heart which
might lead to the betrayal of bitter and desolate feelings. Pure? Yes; purity was the guiding
star which marked the daily course of this woman's existence. Her acts were pure--her mind
was pure--her heart was pure--every thought was pure. There was purity in her sorrow, leading
to pure and holy thoughts--speaking to the soul--giving comfort--giving hope.

In deep sincerity did Lady Rosamond mourn for her husband. She mourned his loss as that of
a loved brother--a dear friend--one in whom she confided. She found much comfort in the thought
of having done her best. She had fulfilled her duty--she had struggled bravely. She had cheered
her husband's path through life--she had kept her secret--made one being happy. Surely such
thoughts must have offered some relief. She had committed no wrong, having gone forth at the
summon of duty, she had taken upon her frail, trembling form, a cross overpowering in its weight,
yet she murmured not.

As she is sitting beside the lifeless remains of one who had filled such an important part
in her history--a striking illustration of life in its varied forms of existence--its joys--its
sorrows--its longings--its aspirations--its dreams--let us look upon her as one of the many
purified through much suffering--whose faith will meet its recompense.

CHAPTER XXII.

CONCLUSION.

Reader, we will ask you to follow us as we pass over a period of two years--two long years.
The task imposed is an arduous one, yet, we shrink not. All former friends must be searched
out, and once more introduced. Be not impatient if we do not succeed in the direct order of
your wishes. In the uncertain distance faint echoes are already heard between intervals of
solemn thoughts, while the name of Rosamond strikes upon our ear and vibrates within us as
though the influence of myriads of spirits had woven around a deep subtle spell from which
we cannot force ourselves. In truth, you have won us--your point is gained.

Now to your relief. Bereford Castle stands in its grandeur and beauty with not an object near
to mar the effect. Its stoical exterior bears no impress of the loss sustained in the heir
and son. Menacingly it frowns upon those scenes which recall the realities of life. Amid storm,
sunshine, sickness and death, its aspect is unchanged--true type of its age, order and design.
On entrance, the interior is calm, quiet and inviting. Daily contact with the inmates has had
a soothing effect. Look around. In the spacious drawing room, opening upon the garden, is the
family occupied in different ways. Lord Bereford is seated beside the familiar form of a beautiful
woman dressed in robes of mourning. A second glance is not necessary to aid recognition. The
sweet pensive smile is sufficient. Lady Rosamond has lost none of her charms. Time has no grudge
against her for personal wrongs, no retributive justice to be meted out--instead, the quiet
happiness of a contented mind is lavished with true delight. A fond light beams in the lovely
eyes as they turn towards Maude Bereford--ever the same Maude that strolled around Trevelyan
Hall some time in the past. The same simplicity is attached to every movement, action and speech--Maude
still.

But a stranger is engrossing her attention. A tall, handsome and gallant gentleman occupies
a seat at her side, devoting his attentions to her, occasionally addressing Lady Rosamond in
terms of endearing familiarity. There is not much difficulty in ascertaining the relationship.
Geoffrey Seymour had become a frequent visitor at the Castle. The blushes that greeted him
told the tale upon Maude Bereford. Yet, she cared not for the eyes of the world. She had given
her heart to a true, honorable and affectionate lover. Already she has woven bright dreams
wherein are clearly portrayed outlines of two fond beings living in the sunshine of each other's
love, surrounded by the comforts and ease of a bright and happy fireside. Lady Bereford is
within the privacy of her own apartments. Grief and anxiety have left heavy marks upon her
hitherto well preserved face. The furrowed forehead, wrinkles and grey hairs, show full well
the heavy blow which had been dealt her ladyship in the death of her first-born. Time cannot
eradicate the inroads made upon this high-minded woman. Her failing health speaks of dissolution. Finally, in the
part referring to the German civil law, not only indicated the main changes made to it after the publication
of the encyclopedia, but the most important differences between the former and positive law.

Volume
I consists of 336 pages and includes:

Warning of the translators and annotators .-- News about the life and works of .-- Preface Ahrens
the author .-- Introduction.

Principles of Philosophy of Law: Groundwork of the idea of ​​law .-- Exhibition its capital
.-- Critical elements of the main systems of law .-- Forms, sources
immediate and mediate .-- .-- The State Division of private law and
organic groups, as the purpose of life.

History of Law: Philosophical principles of this story .-- .-- Periods
capital law pre-historic East .-- Right, look at general .-- The Hindu
.-- The Village Zendo .-- Egypt .-- China .-- The Hebrews .-- Appendices
.-- Muslim law.

Volume II consists of 464 pages and contains:

History of Law in Greece
and Rome: Difference between Greek law .-- .-- Rights Law Judgement
.-- Roman historical and philosophical.

Legal history of Christian: Right Germanic various times up today
.-- Law of non-German Germanic peoples Germanic law .-- peoples Latinos
.-- Law of Hungarian law Slavs .-- .-- Judgement philosophical history.

Volume

III contains 384 pages and contains:

Private law system: The concept, purpose and method of the same division.

General part: Subject of Law .-- .-- Foreign Object of the legal,
origination and termination Rights to acquire modes .-- .-- Information
law legal relationships space and time .-- Protection of Rights .--
The possession.

Special section: The right of individuals .-- .-- Right of property
law of obligations, contracts and classes of society .-- .-- law marriage
law, family law and inheritance law .-- professions.

Public law, law of the State and society .-- international law.

Legal methodology.

The cost of the work, 18 pesetas in Madrid and 21 provinces.

Spanish pasta bound, 4.50 pesetas.

CALDERON DE LA BARCA

Select theater, preceded by a critical study
of D. Marcelino Menéndez Pelayo, 4 volumes, 8. º, 48 and 56 reais.

Contains:

VOLUME = I =

Critical study, by D. Marcelino Menéndez Pelayo.

RELIGIOUS AND PHILOSOPHICAL DRAMAS

Life is a dream .-- Devotion of
the Cross .-- The prodigious magical .-- The Constant Prince.

= VOLUME II =

Tragic drama

The physician of his honor .-- A grievance secret, secret revenge
.-- The Mayor of Zalamea .-- The largest Amar .-- monster jealousy
after death.

= VOLUME III =

COMEDY swashbuckling

House with two doors is to
keep bad .-- .-- La dama duende No jokes like love .-- Morning April
and May.

= VOLUME IV =

COMEDY .-- VARIOUS WORKS

The worst thing
is not always true .-- Beware of still water.

OPERETTA

The laurel
of Apollo .-- The Purple Rose.

Mystery plays

Baltazar dinner .--
Life is a Dream .-- A God by reason of state.

Volumes are sold loose
at 12 and 14 reais.

MADRID, 1886 .-- Imprenta de Manuel G. Hernandez,
Libertad, 16 duplicate
The constant companionship of the man whom she loved cost many a bitter struggle to her ladyship.
The earnest gaze of Guy Trevelyan's soft eyes were indeed hard to bear. If he only knew the
power thus exercised upon the fair being beside him. But Lady Rosamond had kept her secret
from the eye of any living creature save herself. Captain Trevelyan must not discover the fatal
knowledge. He must never know. Still they conversed together, talked together, and spent many
hours together, having much opportunity to fathom the depths of each other's heart. Lady Rosamond
seemed cheerful, content, and happy. Captain Trevelyan was apparently light-hearted, pleasing,
agreeable, and attentive. Each guest endeavored to make the most of this friendly meeting.
Even Lady Bereford strove to forget her feelings and rally her former spirits and dignified
stateliness. Bereford Castle enjoyed a season of delight.

One lovely evening afterwards several voices mingled in the shrubbery adjoining the garden.
Maude was conversing in animated tones with Fanny Trevelyan. Geoffrey Seymour had played truant
to his lady love by gallant attention to Mary Douglas.

In a remote corner, almost beyond hearing of these, and scarcely visible through the foliage,
were the forms of a lady and gentleman seated beneath the sheltering branches of a stately
elm. A nearer approach shows the rising color of the rose-tinted cheeks--the glorious light
in those lovely eyes--the bewitching and irresistible smile. A manly voice is heard exclaiming
in the tones of a rapturous lover, "Rosamond, my own darling, I never expected to realize such
happiness. In the possession of such love I am a thousandfold rewarded for a lifetime of misery.
Yes, my peerless Rosamond, the last half hour has amply repaid the torturing pangs of a forlorn
and hopeless love which I have suffered since first beholding you." At this avowal the speaker
leaned towards Lady Rosamond Bereford, revealing the features of Captain Trevelyan. In a moment
of passionate fervor he had confessed his undying attachment to the lovely Rosamond, and had
received the blissful assurance of reciprocated love. He was in possession of a happiness beyond
description as he told the oft repeated tale to his betrothed wife, listening to her voice
as it fell like music upon his ear. The fond kiss which sealed their vows was more precious
than the mines of Golconda. Truly did Guy Trevelyan idolize the beautiful woman who had now
surrendered her heart to his keeping.

Did Lady Rosamond tell her secret to her accepted lover? Did she also confess the love which
had been cherished towards the boyish lieutenant when he became almost a daily visitor at Government
House--the maddening thoughts, that almost crushed her out of existence--the spirit of rebellion
against the designs of her loved parents--her resolution made to Lady Douglas--her bitter struggle
between duty and feeling--strength of character--victory over self--devotion to her husband?

This is our secret, and we will never reveal it. The reader must be content to know that Captain
Trevelyan was made happy beyond expectation by whatever revelation or by what answer. Truly
they were

    "Two souls with but a single thought,
     Two hearts that beat as one."

Let us assume the garb of the seer and step stealthily over the distance dividing the future,
and gently draw aside the veil! What meets our gaze? A beautiful picture. The scene is now
in Trevelyan Hall, where a reception is being held to welcome the beautiful bride of Captain
Trevelyan--Lady Rosamond Trevelyan. Truly the peerless Rosamond. The beauty of the latter never
shone so resplendent. Love has brought its unsurpassing charms. Love imparted life, brilliancy
and soul to the face of the bride. Captain Trevelyan gazed upon her as though such radiance
could scarcely be of earth. In the train of guests foremost stands Mary Douglas, whose happiness
is indeed great. She is certain of the love existing between the newly-wedded pair, therefore
reflects happiness from the thought. Next in order follows Maude Bereford, whose smiling face
shows plainly the impress stamped upon her heart as she returns the gaze of her handsome betrothed,
whose love is entirely devoted to her, save the tender attachment borne towards his sister
Lady Rosamond Trevelyan. And our little favorite Fanny? Yes. Fanny Trevelyan is there in all
her sweetness, engaging as ever, winning friends by every smile. Her joy is great. Lady Trevelyan's
matronly grace and beauty appears to great advantage as she cast benign glances towards her
daughter elect. Lady Rosamond in her eyes is a woman worthy to be loved--worthy of a mother's
love. A group seated near, evidently in merry conversation, attracts our attention. One is
entertaining them with something of a humorous character. The lively gestures and satirical
smiles are certainly those of Captain Douglas. Doubtless he is telling of some sport which
he enjoyed at the expense of Mr. Howe and Lieutenant Trevelyan in the field, barracks, or drawing-room,
when in Fredericton. Charles Douglas, the handsome, brave, and generous son of Sir Howard,
still proudly wears his former reputation unsullied and undimmed. His heart is ever ready to
do an act of kindness for a fellow creature. Beloved, honored, and respected, he is worthy
of his distinguished sire. Ah! we see another familiar form and face. Leaning beside an open
window is that of a dear old friend, apparently occupied in studying the varied expressions
of the happy bridegroom, and vainly trying to discover that puzzled one which had given so
much concern on former occasions. The faithful friend of the young lieutenant of the 52nd has
not forgotten to pay his respects to the retired captain of the 81st and his lovely bride.
He had made a sacrifice to be present at an event which brought such happiness to one in whom
he had always taken such a deep interest. Mr. Howe was indeed a happy, honored, and welcome
guest. Many more are to be observed standing, sitting, reclining, in groups and companies;
but as strange faces have no peculiar charm when feasting upon those of our old acquaintances,
we make no effort to introduce them. In our great joy we had almost forgotten to recognize
one of Lady Rosamond's warmest adherents--one always in attendance upon her ladyship, ready
to engage in any fun, frolic, or excursion, in the direction of fields or woods--no less a
personage than John Douglas; no longer important Johnnie, but a well-bred gentleman, hearty,
jovial, merry, with bravery stamped upon every lineament of his face. Some are missing. Sir
Thomas Seymour has not lived to see this. Lady Bereford is also among the number. She has paid
her last debt. Then, realizing that given that train
their income would not have enough, especially if God gave him many children, had tried to mount
a brewery to build even the studies he had done. Ventura had strongly opposed this, saying it wanted
to be "the lady of a beer ..." He was convinced that the blood that had burned in Madrid, and was
still burning Sarrio, was what had caused this sudden attack of erysipelas. Sure!
 She never can forget the past, while the present begets the consciousness of
having trodden the paths of duty and right with firm, unfaltering steps, never looking back
until the goal was reached--the reward gained.

    "When life looks lone and dreary
     What light can dispel the gloom?
     When Time's swift wing grows weary
     What charm can refresh his plume?
     'Tis woman, whose sweetness beameth
     O'er all that we feel or see;
     And if man of heaven e'er dreameth
     'Tis when he thinks purely of thee,
            O woman!"

