9

 THE ROMANCE OF A MUMMY                 " 68

                      EGYPT

 THE UNWRAPPING OF A MUMMY             " 299

 FROM ALEXANDRIA TO CAIRO              " 308

 EZBEKÎYEH SQUARE                      " 331

 ANCIENT EGYPT                         " 338

List of Illustrations

 Tahoser listened with inattention more apparent than
 real to the song of the musician.                        Frontispiece

 The Pharaoh slew but a short time ago three messengers
 with a blow of his sceptre.                                  Page 229

The Romance of a Mummy

THE ROMANCE
 OF A MUMMY

Introduction

The subject of "The Romance of a Mummy" was possibly suggested to Théophile Gautier by Ernest
Feydeau, the author of "Fanny" and other works of purely light literature, who published in
1858 a "General History of Funeral Customs and Burials among the Ancients." This book was reviewed
by Gautier when it appeared, and it is most likely that he had been previously made acquainted
with its contents and had discussed Egyptian funeral rites and modes of sepulture with the
author, for it was to Feydeau that he dedicated his novel when it was published in book form
by Hachette in 1858. An omnivorous reader, Gautier had no doubt also perused the far more important
works of Champollion, the decipherer of the inscriptions on the Rosetta stone, who first gave
the learned world the key to the mysterious Egyptian hieroglyphic alphabet. Champollion's "Monuments
of Egypt and Nubia" had appeared in four volumes from 1835 to 1845, and a continuation by himself
and the Vicomte Emmanuel de Rougé was completed in 1872. Champollion-Figeac's "Ancient Egypt"
had been published in 1840, having been preceded by Lenormant's "The Museum of Egyptian Antiquities
in the Louvre," in 1830, and followed by Prisse d'Avennes' "Monuments of Egypt" in 1847. The
explorations and discoveries of Mariette, summed up in that writer's "Selected Monuments and
Drawings," issued in 1856, and the steady growth of the Egyptian Museum in the Louvre, to which
was added in 1852 the magnificent Clot-Bey collection, must have attracted the attention of
Gautier, always keenly interested in art, literature, and erudition.

The account he gives, in his novel, of the ancient city of Thebes, of the great necropolis
in the valley of Biban el Molûk, of the subterranean tombs, of the precautions taken by the
designers to baffle curiosity, of the form and ornamentation of the sarcophagi, of the mummy-cases,
of the mummy itself, of the manners, customs, dress, and beliefs of the ancient Egyptians,
are marvellously accurate. Nothing is easier than to verify his descriptions by reference to
the works of Champollion, Mariette, Wilkinson, Rawlinson, Erman, Edwards, and Maspero. Scarcely
here and there will the reader find a possible error in his statements. It is evident that
he has not trusted alone to what Feydeau told him, or to what he read in his book or in the
works of Egyptologists; he examined the antiquities in the Louvre for himself; he noted carefully
the scenes depicted on monuments and sarcophagi; he traced the ornamentation in all its details;
he studied the poses, the attitudes, the expressions; he marked the costumes, the accessories;
in a word, he mastered his subject, and then only did he, with that facility and certainty
that amazed Balzac, write in swift succession the chapters of the novel which appeared in the
numbers of the "Moniteur Universel" from March 11 to May 6, 1857.

His remark on Feydeau's book, "Picturesqueness in no wise detracts from accuracy," might well
be applied to his own "Romance," which fascinates the reader with its evocation of a long vanished
past and its representation of a civilisation buried for centuries in mystery. The weaving
in of the wonders wrought by Moses and Aaron, of the overwhelming of the Pharaoh, whether Thotmes
or Rameses, is skilfully managed, and imparts to the portions of the Biblical narrative used
by him a verisimilitude and a sensation of actuality highly artistic. The purely erudite part
of the work would probably not have interested the general public, indifferent to the discoveries
of archæology, but the introduction of the human element of love at once captivated it; the
erudite appreciated the accuracy of the restoration of ancient times and manners; the merely
curious were pleased with a well told story, cleverly set in a framework whose strangeness
appealed to their love of exoticism and novelty.

There have been added by the editor, as bearing upon the subject of the "Romance of a Mummy,"
two or three chapters from the volume entitled "The Orient," which is made up of a collection
of sketches and letters of travel written at different times, and of reviews of books upon
Eastern subjects, whether modern or ancient. The chapter describing a trip to Egypt was the
result of a flying visit paid to that country on the occasion of the official opening of the
Suez Canal in November, 1869. Gautier embarked on board the steamship "Moeris," of the Messageries
Impériales, at Marseilles. The very first night out he slipped and fell down the companion
steps, and broke his left arm above the elbow. This painful accident did not prevent his fulfilling
his promise to keep the "Journal Officiel," with which he was then connected, fully supplied
with accounts of the land and the inauguration ceremonies.

The Romance of a Mummy

Prologue

"I have a presentiment that we shall find in the valley of Biban el Molûk a tomb intact," said
to a high-bred-looking young Englishman a much more humble personage who was wiping, with a
big, blue-checked handkerchief, his bald head, on which stood drops of perspiration, just as
if it had been made of porous clay and filled with water like a Theban water-jar.

"May Osiris hear you!" replied the English nobleman to the German scholar. "One may be allowed
such an invocation in the presence of the ancient Diospolis Magna. But we have been so often
deceived hitherto; treasure-seekers have always forestalled us."

"A tomb which neither the Shepherd Kings nor the Medes of Cambyses nor the Greeks nor the Romans
nor the Arabs have explored, and which will give up to us its riches intact," continued the
perspiring scholar, with an enthusiasm which made his eyes gleam behind the lenses of his blue
glasses.

"And on which you will print a most learned dissertation which will give you a place by the
side of Champollion, Rosellini, Wilkinson, Lepsius, and Belzoni," said the young nobleman.

"I shall dedicate it to you, my lord, for had you not treated me with regal munificence, I
could not have backed up my system by an examination of the monuments, and I should have died
in my little town in Germany without having beheld the marvels of this ancient land," replied
the scholar, with emotion.

This conversation took place not far from the Nile, at the entrance to the valley of Biban
el Molûk, between Lord Evandale, who rode an Arab horse, and Dr. Rumphius, more modestly perched
upon an ass, the lean hind-quarters of which a fellah was belabouring. The boat which had brought
the two travellers, and which was to be their dwelling during their stay, was moored on the
other side of the Nile in front of the village of Luxor. Its sweeps were shipped, its great
lateen sails furled on the yards. After having devoted a few days to visiting and studying
the amazing ruins of Thebes, gigantic remains of a mighty world, they had crossed the river
on a sandal, a light native boat, and were proceeding towards the barren region which contains
within its depths, far down mysterious hypogea, the former inhabitants of the palaces on the
other bank. A few men of the crew accompanied Lord Evandale and Dr. Rumphius at a distance,
while the others, stretched out on the deck in the shadow of the cabin, were peacefully smoking
their pipes and watching the craft.

Lord Evandale was one of those thoroughly irreproachable young noblemen whom the upper classes
of Britain give to civilisation. He bore everywhere with him the disdainful sense of security
which comes from great hereditary wealth, a historic name inscribed in the "Peerage and Baronetage"--a
book second only to the Bible in England--and a beauty against which nothing could be urged,
save that it was too great for a man. His clear-cut and cold features seemed to be a wax copy
of the head of Meleager or Antinoüs; his brilliant complexion seemed to be the result of rouge
and powder, and his somewhat reddish hair curled naturally as accurately as an expert hairdresser
or clever valet could have made it curl. On the other hand, the firm glance of his steel-blue
eyes and the slightly sneering expression of his lower lip corrected whatever there might be
of effeminate in his general appearance.

As a member of the Royal Yacht Squadron, the young nobleman indulged occasionally in a cruise
on his swift yacht Puck, built of teak, fitted like a boudoir, and manned by a small crew of
picked seamen. In the course of the preceding year he had visited Iceland; in the present year
he was visiting Egypt, and his yacht awaited him in the roads of Alexandria. He had with him
a scholar, a physician, a naturalist, an artist, and a photographer, in order that his trip
might not be unfruitful. He was himself highly educated, and his society successes had not
made him forget his triumphs at Cambridge University. He was dressed with that accuracy and
careful neatness characteristic of the English, who traverse the desert sands in the same costume
which they would wear when walking on the pier at Ramsgate or on the pavements of the West
End. A coat, vest, and trousers of white duck, intended to repel the sun's rays, composed his
costume, which was completed by a narrow blue necktie with white spots, and an extremely fine
Panama hat with a veil.

Rumphius, the Egyptologist, preserved even in this hot climate the traditional black coat of
the scholar with its loose skirts, its curled up collar, its worn buttons, some of which had
freed themselves of their silk covering. His black trousers shone in places and showed the
warp. Near the right knee an attentive observer might have remarked upon the greyish ground
of the stuff a systematic series of lines of richer tone which proved that he was in the habit
of wiping his pen upon this portion of his clothes. His muslin cravat, rolled in the shape
of a cord, hung loosely around his neck, on which stood out strongly the Adam's apple. Though
he was dressed with scientific carelessness, Rumphius was not any the handsomer on that account.
A few reddish hairs, streaked with gray, were brushed back behind his protruding ears, and
were puffed up by the high collar of his coat. His perfectly bald skull, shining like a bone,
overhung a prodigiously long nose, spongy and bulbous at the end, so that with the blue discs
of his glasses he looked somewhat like an ibis,--a resemblance increased by his head sunk between
his shoulders. This appearance was of course entirely suitable and most providential for one
engaged in deciphering hieroglyphic inscriptions and scrolls. He looked like a bird-headed
god, such as are seen on funeral frescoes, who had transmigrated into the body of a scholar.

The lord and the doctor were travelling towards the cliffs which encircle the sombre valley
of Biban el Molûk, the royal necropolis of ancient Thebes, indulging in the conversation of
which we have related a part, when, rising like a Troglodyte from the black mouth of an empty
sepulchre--the ordinary habitation of the fellahs--another person, dressed in somewhat theatrical
fashion, abruptly entered on the scene, stood before the travellers, and saluted them with
the graceful salute of the Orientals, which is at once humble, caressing, and noble.

This man was a Greek who undertook to direct excavations, who manufactured and sold antiquities,
selling new ones when the supply of the old happened to fail. Nothing about him, however, smacked
of the vulgar exploiter of strangers. He wore a red felt fez from which hung a long blue silk
tassel; under the narrow edge of an inner linen cap showed his temples, evidently recently
shaved. The one who dreamed of glory and be covered with famous chieftain
before thirty years, rather than thinking of strategic combinations and original fortifications has to deal
with the washing and cleaned up a few surly waiters who come from excessive smelling health
field, try the ranch, talk about shorts and shirts and calculate the duration of boots and sandals.
He who never entered the kitchen of his home and was cared carefully by her mother, ignoring women's
issues as everything that was not to cry control and align soldiers first encountered in the
military is the need to be a cook, tailor, shoemaker, etc., often holding their superiors refusals
because it does not demonstrate proficiency in these tasks.

- It's true - Juanito said, laughing - but without it there can be no army and the army is
necessary.

- No need to discuss whether or not.

I mean only that you (and if you do not, because it goes to a good start, his teammates) are
a deluded, unknowingly preparing the failure of life, like those other young people, poorer
or less vigorous, are to enter the Church. The Church ended because there is no faith, military
glory is over forever in Spain because there are no wars of conquest and power our feisty character
was lost, fortunately, for centuries. If we still have war, civil or colonial; zompas wars we might call,
dull and useless, in which men die as well as at Thermopylae or in Austerlitz, as only a life
once lost, but without the consolation of fame and public admiration, without the aura of what
they call glory. You were born too late. The brightness of other ages are attracted to the
illusion, but arrive late to call. You are the warriors of a people necessarily must live in peace,
as the seminarians are the future priests in a country already no miracles, nor is there faith,
but routine and laziness of thought.

- But if we no longer have foreign wars, if eventually the gains we
serve, the less to defend the integrity of Spanish soil, to save the
house.

Do you think - added piqued the cadet - we are not willing to die for their country?

- No doubt it is the only thing we serve the Spanish-to die very heroically,
but finally die.

For two centuries our history contains nothing heroic deaths. "Glorious defeat of that party.
"" Heroic disaster of such other. "By land and sea have caused astonishment in the world, throwing
us with his eyes closed in danger, presenting the head without flee with the stoicism of the Chinese. But
nations are not great for his defiance of death, but for his ability to stay alive. The Poles
were the terror of the Turks and about of the best soldiers in Europe, and Poland for some
time that there .... If a great power could invade Europe (mind you when I say 'could', because
in these cases is not wanting the same power), from here I know what would happen. The Spanish
would know die but have you the assurance that the invaders did not take more than two battles
pitched to finish with all our means of warfare. And that can rid a couple of days, how many
sacrifices it costs the country ...!

- Then - ironically the cadet said - there will be deleted and leave
the army helpless the nation.

- Today, do not expect that to happen.

While Europe is armed and even more small nation has an army, Spain will have it too. It is
she who will lead by example, and this example would be useless.

It is as if to redress social injustice initiate the sacrifice one that only had a few thousand
pesetas, denying them ....

After a long silence, Gabriel spoke softly, in view of the ironic
and almost aggressive gesture Cadet.

- You will undoubtedly hurt
my statements.

Believe me, I'm sorry, I do not like beliefs hurt anyone, plus those that form the ideal of life.
But the truth is the truth.

You do not care about social issues, is not it? Not known, nor will be concerned for a moment.
The same will happen to all his colleagues, and yet, what you suffer in prestige, in his love of
country and its flag, no other reason than the social disarray that prevails today in the world.
Wealth is everything capital is the lord of the land. Science governing mankind as the successor
of faith but the rich have taken their findings and to perpetuate their monopoly tyranny. In
the economic world have become owners of the machines and other advances, using them as chains
to enslave the worker, forcing him to excess production and limiting to the minimum wage.


The Greek, as he heard these words, cast a sidelong glance at the German, but fancying from
his wretched dress that he had no voice in the matter, he continued to address himself exclusively
to the young nobleman.

"Are a thousand guineas too much, my lord, for a tomb of the greatest antiquity, which no human
hand has opened for more than three thousand years, since the priests rolled rocks before its
mouth? Indeed, it is giving it away; for perhaps it contains quantities of gold, diamond, and
pearl necklaces, carbuncle earrings, sapphire seals, ancient idols in precious metals, and
coins which could be turned to account."

"You sly rascal!" said Rumphius, "you are praising up your wares, but you know better than
any one that nothing of the sort is found in Egyptian tombs."

Argyropoulos, understanding that he had to do with clever men, ceased to boast, and turning
to Lord Evandale, he said to him, "Well, my lord, does the price suit you?"

"I will give a thousand guineas," replied the young nobleman, "if the tomb has not been opened;
but I shall give nothing if a single stone has been touched by the crow-bar of the diggers."

"With the additional proviso," added Rumphius the prudent, "that we carry off everything we
shall find in the tomb."

"Agreed!" said Argyropoulos, with a look of complete confidence. "Your lordship may get ready
your bank-notes and gold beforehand."

"Dr. Rumphius," said Lord Evandale to his acolyte, "it strikes me that the wish you uttered
just now is about to be realised. This man seems sure of what he says."

"Heaven will it may be so!" replied the scholar, shaking his head somewhat doubtfully; "but
the Greeks are most barefaced liars, Cretæ mendaces, says the proverb."

"No doubt this one comes from the mainland," answered Lord Evandale, "and I think that for
once he has told the truth."

The Greek walked a few steps ahead of the nobleman and the scholar like a well-bred man who
knows what is proper. He walked lightly and firmly, like a man who feels that he is on his
own ground.

The narrow defile which forms the entrance to the valley of Biban el Molûk was soon reached.
It had more the appearance of the work of man than of a natural opening in the mighty wall
of the mountain, as if the Genius of Solitude had desired to make this realm of death inaccessible.
On the perpendicular rocky walls were faintly discernible shapeless vestiges of weather-worn
sculptures which might have been mistaken for the asperities of the stone imitating the worn
figures of a half-effaced basso-relievo. Beyond the opening, the valley, which here widened
somewhat, presented the most desolate sight. On either side rose steep slopes formed of huge
masses of calcareous rock, rough, leprous-looking, worn, cracked, ground to sand, in a complete
state of decomposition under the pitiless sun. They resembled bones calcined in the fire, and
yawned with the weariness of eternity out of their deep crevices, imploring by their thousand
cracks the drop of water which never fell. The walls rose almost vertically to a great height,
and their dentelated crests stood out grayish-white against the almost black indigo of the
sky, like the broken battlements of a giant ruined fortress. The rays of the sun heated to
white heat one of the sides of the funeral valley, the other being bathed in that crude blue
tint of torrid lands which strikes the people of the North as untruthful when it is reproduced
by painters, and which stands out as sharply as the shadows on an architectural drawing.

The valley sometimes made sudden turns, sometimes narrowed into defiles as the boulders and
cliffs drew closer or apart. The thoroughly dry atmosphere in these climates being perfectly
transparent, there was no aerial perspective in this place of desolation. Every detail, sharp,
accurate, bare, stood out, even in the background, with pitiless dryness, and the distance
could only be guessed at by the smaller dimensions of objects. It seemed as though cruel nature
had resolved not to conceal any wretchedness, any sadness of this bare land, deader even than
the dead it contained. Upon the sun-lighted cliff streamed like a cascade of fire a blinding
glare like that which is given out by molten metal; every rock face, transformed into a burning-glass,
returned it more ardent still. These reflections, crossing and recrossing each other, joined
to the flaming rays which fell from heaven and which were reflected by the ground, produced
a heat equal to that of an oven, and the poor German doctor had hard work to wipe his face
with his blue-checked handkerchief, which was as wet as if it had been dipped in water.

There was not a particle of loam to be found in the whole valley, consequently not a blade
of grass, not a bramble, not a creeper, not even a patch of moss to break the uniformly whitish
tone of the torrified landscape. The cracks and recesses of the rocks did not hold coolness
enough for the thin, hairy roots of the smallest rock plant. The place looked as if it held
the ashes of a chain of mountains, consumed in some great planetary conflagration, and the
accuracy of the parallel was completed by great black strips looking like cauterised cicatrices
which rayed the chalky slopes.

Deep silence reigned over this waste; no sign of life was visible; no flutter of wing, no hum
of insect, no flash of lizard or reptile; even the shrill song of the cricket, that lover of
burning solitudes, was unheard. The soil was formed of a micaceous, brilliant dust like ground
sandstone, and here and there rose hummocks formed of the fragments of stone torn from the
depths of the chain, which had been excavated by the persevering workmen of vanished generations,
and the chisel of the Troglodyte labourers who had prepared in the shadow the eternal dwelling-places
of the dead. The broken entrails of the mountain had produced other mountains, friable heaps
of small rocks which might have been mistaken for the natural range.

On the sides of the cliffs showed here and there small openings surrounded with blocks of stone
thrown in disorder: square holes flanked by pillars covered with hieroglyphs, the lintels of
which bore mysterious cartouches on which could yet be made out in a great yellow disc the
sacred scarabæus, the ram-headed sun, and the goddesses Isis and Nephthys standing or kneeling.

These were the tombs of the ancient kings of Thebes. Argyropoulos did not stop there, but led
the travellers up a sort of steep slope, which at first glance seemed nothing but a break on
the side of the mountain, choked in many places by fallen masses of rock, until they reached
a narrow platform, a sort of cornice projecting over the vertical cliff on which the rocks,
apparently thrown together by chance, nevertheless exhibited on close examination some symmetrical
arrangement.

When the nobleman, who was a practised athlete, and the doctor, who was much less agile, had
succeeded in climbing up to him, Argyropoulos pointed with his stick to a huge stone and said
with triumphant satisfaction, "There is the spot!"

He clapped his hands in Oriental fashion, and straightway from the fissures of the rocks, from
the folds of the valley, hastened up pale, ragged fellahs, who bore in their bronze-coloured
arms crow-bars, pick-axes, hammers, ladders, and all necessary tools. They escaladed the steep
slope like a legion of black ants; those who could not find room on the narrow ledge on which
already stood the Greek, Lord Evandale, and Dr. Rumphius, hung by their hands and steadied
themselves with their feet against the projections in the rock. The Greek signed to three of
the most robust, who placed their crow-bars under the edges of the boulder. Their muscles stood
out upon their thin arms, and they pressed with their whole weight on the end of the levers.
At last the boulder moved, tottered for a moment like a drunken man, and, urged by the united
efforts of Argyropoulos, Lord Evandale, Rumphius, and a few Arabs who had succeeded in climbing
the ledge, bounded down the slope. Two other boulders of less size went the same way, one after
another, and then it was plain that the belief of the Greek was justified. The entrance to
a tomb, which had evidently escaped the investigations of the treasure-seekers, appeared in
all its integrity.

It was a sort of portico squarely cut in the living rock. On the two side-walls a couple of
pairs of pillars exhibited capitals formed of bulls' heads, the horns of which were twisted
like the crescent of Isis. Below the low door, with its jambs flanked by long panels covered
with hieroglyphs, there was a broad, emblematic square. In the centre of a yellow disc showed
by the side of the scarabæus, symbol of successive new births, the ram-headed god, the symbol
of the setting sun. Outside the disc, Isis and Nephthys, incarnations of the Beginning and
the End, were kneeling, one leg bent under the thigh, the other raised to the height of the
elbow, in the Egyptian attitude, the arms stretched forward with an air of mysterious amazement,
and the body clothed in a close fitting gown girdled by a belt with falling ends. Behind a
wall of stone and unbaked brick, that readily yielded to the pickaxes of the workmen, was discovered
the stone slab which formed the doorway of the subterranean monument. On the clay seal which
closed it, the German doctor, thoroughly familiar with hieroglyphs, had no difficulty in reading
the motto of the guardian of the funeral dwellings, who had closed forever this tomb, the situation
of which he alone could have found upon the map of burial-places preserved in the priests' college.

"I begin to believe," said the delighted scholar to the young nobleman, "that we have actually
found a prize, and I withdraw the unfavourable opinion which I expressed about this worthy Greek."

"Perhaps we are rejoicing too soon," answered Lord Evandale, "and we may experience the same
disappointment as Belzoni, when he believed himself to be the first to enter the tomb of Menephtha
Seti, and found, after he had traversed a labyrinth of passages, walls, and chambers, an empty
sarcophagus with a broken cover; for the treasure-seekers had reached the royal tomb through
one of their soundings driven in at another point in the mountain."

"Oh, no," answered the doctor; "the range is too broad here and the hypogeum too distant from
the others for these wretched people to have carried their mines as far as this, even if they
scraped away the rock."

While this conversation was going on, the workmen, urged by Argyropoulos, proceeded to lift
the great stone slab which filled up the orifice of the passage. As they cleared away the slab
in order to pass their crow-bars under it, for Lord Evandale had ordered that nothing should
be broken, they turned up in the sand innumerable small statuettes a few inches in height,
of blue and green enamelled ware, of admirable workmanship,--tiny funeral statuettes deposited
there as offerings by parents and friends, just as we place flowers on the thresholds of our
funeral chapels; only, our flowers wither, while after more than three thousand years these
witnesses of long bygone griefs are found intact, for Egypt worked for eternity only.

When the door was lifted away, giving for the first time in thirty-five centuries entrance
to the light of day, a puff of hot air escaped from the sombre opening as from the mouth of
a furnace. The light, striking the entrance of the funeral passage, brought out brilliantly
the colouring of the hieroglyphs engraved upon the walls in perpendicular lines upon a blue
plinth. A reddish figure with a hawk's-head crowned with the pschent, the double crown of Upper
and Lower Egypt, bore a disc containing a winged globe, and seemed to watch on the threshold
of the tomb. Some fellahs lighted torches and preceded the two travellers, who were accompanied
by Argyropoulos. The resinous flame burned with difficulty in the dense, stifling air which
had been concentrated for so many thousands of years under the heated limestone of the mountain,
in the labyrinths, passages, and blind ways of the hypogeum. Rumphius breathed hard and perspired
in streams; the impassible Evandale turned hot and felt a moisture on his temples. As for the
Greek, the fiery wind of the desert had long since dried him up, and he perspired no more than
would a mummy.

The passage led directly to the centre of the chain, following a vein of limestone of remarkable
fineness and purity. At the end of the passageway a stone door, sealed as the other had been
with a clay seal and surmounted by a winged globe, proved that the tomb had not been violated
and pointed to the existence of another passageway sunk deeper still into the mountain.

The heat was now so intense that the young nobleman threw off his white coat, and the doctor
his black one. These were soon followed by their vests and shirts. Argyropoulos, seeing that
they were breathing with difficulty, whispered a few words to a fellah, who ran back to the
entrance and brought two large sponges filled with fresh water, which the Greek advised the
two travellers to place on their mouths so that they might breathe a fresher air through the
humid pores, as is done in Russian baths when the steam heat is raised to excess.

The door was attacked and soon gave way. A steep staircase cut in the living rock was then
seen descending. Against a green background edged with a blue line were ranged on either side
of the passageway processions of symbolical statues, the colours of which were as bright and
fresh as if the artist's brush had laid them on the day before. They would show for a second
in the light of the torches, then vanish in the shadow like the phantoms of a dream. Below
these narrow frescoes, lines of hieroglyphs, written perpendicularly like Chinese writing and
separated by hollow lines, excited the erudite by the sacred mystery of their outlines. Along
that portion of the walls which was not covered with hieratic signs, a jackal lying on its
belly, with outstretched paws and pointed ears, and a kneeling figure wearing a mitre, its
hand stretched upon a circle, seemed to stand as sentries on either side of the door, the lintel
of which was ornamented with two panels placed side by side, in which were figured two women
wearing close-fitting gowns and extending their feathered arms like wings.

"Look here!" said the doctor, taking breath when he reached the foot of the staircase, and
when he saw that the excavation sank deeper and deeper still. "Are we going down to the centre
of the earth? The heat is increasing to such a degree that we cannot be far from the sojourn
of the damned."

"No doubt," answered Lord Evandale, "they followed the vein of limestone, which sinks in accordance
with the law of geological undulations."

Another very steep passage came after the steps. The walls were lower, covered with paintings,
in which could be made out a series of allegorical scenes, explained, no doubt, by the hieroglyphs
inscribed below. This frieze ran all along the passage, and below it were small figures worshipping
sacred scarabæi and the azure-coloured symbolical serpent.

As he reached the end of the passage, the fellah who carried the torch threw himself back abruptly,
for the path was suddenly interrupted by the mouth of a square well yawning black at the surface
of the ground.

"There is a well, master," said the fellah, addressing himself to Argyropoulos; "what am I to do?"

The Greek took the torch, shook it to make it blaze up, and threw it into the small mouth of
the well, bending cautiously over the opening. The torch fell, twisting and hissing. Soon a
dull sound was heard, followed by a burst of sparks and a cloud of smoke, then the flame burned
up bright and clear, and the opening of the well shone in the shadow like the bloodshot eye
of a Cyclops.

"Most ingenious!" said the young nobleman. "This labyrinth, interrupted by oubliettes, must
have cooled the zeal of robbers and scholars."

"Not at all," replied the doctor. "Those seek gold, these truth, which are the two most precious
things in the world."

"Bring the knotted rope!" cried Argyropoulos to his Arabs. "We shall explore and sound the
walls of the well, for the passage no doubt runs far beyond it."

Eight or ten men hung on to the rope, the end of which was let fall into the well. With the
agility of a monkey or of an athlete, Argyropoulos caught hold of the swinging rope and let
himself down some fifteen feet, holding on with his hands and striking with his heels the walls
of the well. Wherever he struck the rock it gave out a dead, dull sound. Then Argyropoulos
let himself fall to the bottom of the well and struck the ground with the hilt of his kandjar,
but the compact rock did not resound. Lord Evandale and the doctor, burning with eager curiosity,
bent over the edge at the risk of falling in headlong, and watched with intense interest the
search undertaken by the Greek.

"Hold hard!" cried he at last, annoyed at finding nothing; and he seized the rope with his
two hands to ascend.

The shadow of Argyropoulos, lighted from below by the torch which was still burning at the
bottom of the well, was projected against the ceiling and cast on it a silhouette like that
of a monstrous bird. His sunburned face expressed the liveliest disappointment, and under his
moustache he was biting his lips.

"There is not a trace of a passage!" he cried; "and yet the excavation cannot stop here."

"Unless," said Rumphius, "the Egyptian who ordered this tomb died in some distant nome, on
a voyage, or in battle, the work being then abandoned, as is known to have been the case occasionally."

"Let us hope that by dint of searching we shall find some secret issue," returned Lord Evandale;
"otherwise we shall try to drive a transverse shaft through the mountain."

"Those confounded Egyptians were clever indeed at concealing the entrances to their tombs,--always
trying to find out some way of putting poor people off the track. One would think that they
laughed in anticipation at the disappointment of searchers," grumbled Argyropoulos. Drawing
to the edge of the well, the Greek cast a glance, as piercing as that of a night-bird, upon
the wall of the little chamber which formed the upper portion of the well. He saw nothing but
the ordinary characters of psychostasia,--Osiris the judge seated on his throne in the regulation
attitude, holding the crook in the one hand, the whip in the other, and the goddesses of Justice
and Truth leading the spirit of the dead to the tribunal of Amenti. Suddenly he seemed to be
struck with a new idea, and turned sharply around. His long experience as an excavator recalled
to him a somewhat analogous case. In addition, the desire of earning the thousand guineas of
his lordship spurred up his faculties. He took a pick-axe from the hands of a fellah, and began,
walking backward, to strike sharply right and left on the surface of the rock, often at the
risk of damaging some of the hieroglyphs or of breaking the beak or the wing-sheath of the
sacred hawk or the scarabæus.

The wall, thus questioned, at last answered the hammer and sounded hollow. An exclamation of
triumph broke from the Greek and his eyes flashed; the doctor and the nobleman clapped their hands.

"Dig here," said Argyropoulos, who had recovered his coolness, to his men.

An opening large enough to allow a man to pass through was made. A gallery running within the
mountain around the obstacle which the well offered to the profane, led to a square hall, the
blue vault of which rested upon four massive pillars ornamented by the red-skinned, white-garmented
figures which so often show, in Egyptian frescoes, the full bust and the head in profile. This
hall opened into another, the vault of which was somewhat higher and supported by two pillars
only. Various scenes--the mystic bark, the bull Apis bearing the mummy towards the regions
of the West, the judgment of the soul and the weighing of the deeds of the dead in the supreme
scales, the offerings to the funeral divinities--adorned the pillars and the hall. They were
carved in flat, low relief with sharp outline, but the painter's brush had not completed the
work of the chisel. By the care and delicacy of the work might be judged the importance of
the personage whose tomb it had been sought to conceal from the knowledge of men.

After having spent a few moments in examining these carvings, which were in the purest manner
of the fine Egyptian style of the classical age, the explorers perceived that there was no
issue from the hall, and that they had reached a sort of blind place. The air was becoming
somewhat rarified, the torches burned with difficulty and further augmented the heat of the
atmosphere, while the smoke formed a dense pall. The Greek gave himself to the devil, but that
did no good. Again the walls were sounded without any result. The mountain, thick and compact,
gave back but a dead sound; there was no trace of a door, of a passage, or of any sort of opening.

The young nobleman was plainly discouraged, and the doctor let fall his arms by his side. Argyropoulos,
who feared losing his thousand guineas, exhibited the fiercest despair. However, the party
was compelled to retreat, for the heat had become absolutely suffocating.

They returned to the outer hall, and there the Greek, who could not make up his mind to see
his golden dream vanish in smoke, examined with the most minute attention the shafts of the
pillars to make certain that they did not conceal some artifice, that they did not mask some
trap which might be discovered by displacing them; for in his despair he mingled the realism
of Egyptian architecture with the chimerical constructions of the Arab tales. The pillars,
cut out of the mountain itself, in the centre of the hollowed mass, formed part of it, and
it would have been necessary to employ gunpowder to break them down. All hope was gone.

"Nevertheless," said Rumphius, "this labyrinth was not dug for nothing. Somewhere or another
there must be a passage like the one which goes around the well. No doubt the dead man was
afraid of being disturbed by importunate persons and he had himself carefully concealed; but
with patience and perseverance you can get anywhere. Perhaps a slab carefully concealed, the
joint of which cannot be seen, owing to the dust scattered over the ground, covers some descent
which leads, directly or indirectly, to the funeral hall."

"You are right, doctor," said Evandale; "those accursed Egyptians jointed stones as closely
as the hinges of an English trap. Let us go on looking."

The doctor's idea struck the Greek as sound, and he made his fellahs walk about every part
and corner of the hall, tapping the ground. At last, not far from the third pillar a dull resonance
struck on the practised ear of the Greek. He threw himself on his knees to examine the spot,
brushing away with the ragged burnouse one of his Arabs had thrown him the impalpable dust
of thirty-five centuries. A black, narrow, sharp line showed, and, carefully followed out,
marked out on the ground an oblong slab.

"Did I not tell you," cried the enthusiastic doctor, "that the passage could not end in this way?"

"I am really troubled," said Lord Evandale, in his quaint, phlegmatic British fashion, "at
disturbing the last sleep of the poor unknown body which did expect to rest in peace until
the end of the world. The dweller below would willingly dispense with our visit."

"The more so that a third party is lacking to make the presentation formal," replied the doctor.
"But do not be anxious, my lord, I have lived long enough in the days of the Pharaohs to present
you to the illustrious personage who inhabits this subterranean passage."

Crow-bars were applied to the narrow fissure, and after a short time the stone moved and was
raised. A staircase with high, steep steps, sinking into darkness, awaited the impatient travellers,
who rushed down pell-mell. A sloping gallery painted on both walls with figures and hieroglyphs
came next, then at the end of the gallery some more steps leading to a short corridor, a sort
of vestibule to a hall in the same style as the first one, but larger and upborne by six pillars
cut out of the living rock. The ornamentation was richer, and the usual motives of funeral
paintings were multiplied on a yellow background. To the right and to the left opened in the
rock two small crypts or chambers filled with funeral statuettes of enamelled ware, bronze,
and sycamore wood.

"We are in the antechamber of the hall where the sarcophagus is bound to be!" cried Rumphius,
his clear gray eyes flashing with joy from below his spectacles, which he had pushed back over
his forehead.

"Up to the present," said Lord Evandale, "the Greek has kept his word. We are the first living
men who have penetrated so far since the dead, whoever he may be, was left with eternity and
the unknown in this tomb."

"Oh, he must be some great personage," replied the doctor; "a king or a king's son, at the
very least. I shall tell you later when I have deciphered his cartouche. But first let us enter
this hall, the finest, the most important, which the Egyptians called the Golden Hall."

Lord Evandale walked ahead, a few steps before the less agile scholar, though perhaps the latter
deferentially wished to leave the pleasure of the discovery to the young nobleman.

As he was about to step across the threshold, Lord Evandale bent forward as if something unexpected
had struck him. Though accustomed not to manifest his emotions, he was unable to repress a
prolonged and thoroughly British "Oh!" On the fine gray powder which covered the ground showed
very distinctly, with the imprint of the toes and the great bone of the heel, the shape of
a human foot,--the foot of the last priest or the last friend who had withdrawn, fifteen hundred
years before Christ, after having paid the last honours to the dead. The dust, which in Egypt
is as eternal as granite, had moulded the print and preserved it for more than thirty centuries,
just as the hardened diluvian mud has preserved the tracks of the animals which last traversed it.

"See," said Evandale to Rumphius, "that human footprint which is directed towards the exit
from the hypogeum! In what narrow passage of the Libyan chain rests the mummified body that
made it?"

"Who knows?" replied the scholar. "In any case, that light print, which a breath would have
blown away, has lasted longer than empires, than religions and monuments believed eternal.
The noble dust of Alexander was used perhaps to stop a bung-hole, as Hamlet says, but the footprint
of this unknown Egyptian remains on the threshold of a tomb."

Urged by a curiosity which did not allow them much time for recollection, the nobleman and
the doctor entered the hall, taking care, nevertheless, not to efface the wondrous footprint.
On entering, the impassible Evandale felt a strange emotion; it seemed to him, as Shakespeare
says, that the time was out of joint. El
Tato was a great friend, he was wanted when his uncle was away, laughing their thanks apprentice
bullfighter. Gabriel, with her illness, her mysterious withdrawal and history confused of his great
journeys around the world, not least inspired interest. To speak with marked deference to the
old Wooden Staff, being male and being widowed. As I said the dog catcher, pants returned the
poor crazy in that house where the majority of men wore skirts.

Don Gabriel Antolin had known him as a child and tuteaba. In the ignorant priest persisted even
the memory of the great successes achieved by Luna at the seminar, and the poor see and patient,
taking refuge in the cathedral almost alms, his familiarity of superiority was not exempt a certain
admiration. Gabriel, meanwhile, feared the Silver Stick, knowing their fanaticism intolerant.
For this was limited to listening, making sure that their conversations are not slip a word
that reveals his past. It would be the first to demand his expulsion from the cathedral, and
he wanted to live there unknown and silent.

When meeting in the morning in the cloister the two men dealt with
the same question:

- How's health?

Gabriel was optimistic. He knew his condition was hopeless. But that quiet life and unemotional,
and continuing care of his brother, almost by force feeding all hours,
like a bird, had a strut to his health ruined.

The course of the disease was slower: the death was hampered.

-
I'm better, Don Antolin .... And yesterday, how was your day?

Silver Stick had its hands dirty and bone in the depths of his cassock, taking three thick
stubs, one red, one green and the third white.

He spent the leaves, consulting folios of which had torn. He cherished books respectfully,
as if be more important for the worship of the great books of the choir.
- Lazy day, Gabriel! It's winter, and now travels a few people. The
high season is in spring, when, say, enter the English and Gibraltar.
Go to the fair in Seville then come and take a look for our cathedral. The galleries and halls which
led to the sarcophagus hall were flat-ceiled and not more than eight or ten feet high; but
the sanctuary, the one to which all these labyrinths led, was of much greater proportions.
Lord Evandale and Dr. Rumphius remained dumb with admiration, although they were already familiar
with the funereal splendours of Egyptian art. Thus lighted up, the Golden Hall flamed, and
for the first time, perhaps, the colours of the paintings shone in all their brilliancy. Red
and blue, green and white, of virginal purity, brilliantly fresh and amazingly clear, stood
out from the golden background of the figures and hieroglyphs, and attracted the eye before
the subjects which they formed could be discerned. At first glance it looked like a vast tapestry
of the richest stuffs. The vault, some thirty feet high, formed a sort of azure velarium bordered
with long yellow palm-leaves. On the walls the symbolical globe spread its mighty wings and
the royal cartouches showed around. Farther on, Isis and Nephthys waved their arms furnished
with feathers like wings; the uræus swelled its blue throat, the scarabæus unfolded its wings,
the animal-headed gods pricked up their jackal ears, sharpened their hawk's-beaks, wrinkled
their baboon faces, and drew into their shoulders their vulture or serpent necks as if they
were endowed with life. Mystical consecrated boats (baris) passed by on their sledges drawn
by figures in attitudes of sadness, with angular gestures, or propelled by half-naked oarsmen,
they floated upon symbolical undulating waves. Mourners kneeling, their hand placed on their
blue hair in token of grief, turned towards the catafalques, while shaven priests, leopard-skin
on shoulder, burned perfumes in a spatula terminating in a hand bearing a cup under the nose
of the godlike dead. Other personages offered to the funeral genii lotus in bloom or in bud,
bulbous plants, birds, pieces of antelope, and vases of liquors. Acephalous figures of Justice
brought souls before Osiris, whose arms were set in inflexible contour, and who was assisted
by the forty-two judges of Amenti, seated in two rows and bearing an ostrich-plume on their
heads, the forms of which were borrowed from every realm of zoölogy.

All these figures, drawn in hollowed lines in the limestone and painted in the brightest colours,
were endowed with that motionless life, that frozen motion, that mysterious intensity of Egyptian
art, which was hemmed in by the priestly rule, and which resembles a gagged man trying to utter
his secret.

In the centre of the hall rose, massive and splendid, the sarcophagus, cut out of a solid block
of black basalt and closed by a cover of the same material, carved in the shape of an arch.
The four sides of the funeral monolith were covered with figures and hieroglyphs as carefully
engraved as the intaglio of a gem, although the Egyptians did not know the use of iron, and
the grain of basalt is hard enough to blunt the best-tempered steel. Imagination loses itself
when it tries to discover the process by which that marvellous people wrought on porphyry and
granite as with a style on wax tablets.

At the angles of the sarcophagus were set four vases of oriental alabaster, of most elegant
and perfect outline, the carved covers of which represented the man's head of Amset, the monkey
head of Hapi, the jackal head of Tuamutef, and the hawk head of Kebhsnauf. The vases contained
the visceræ of the mummy enclosed in the sarcophagus. At the head of the tomb an effigy of
Osiris with plaited beard seemed to watch over the dead. Two coloured statues of women stood
right and left of the tomb, supporting, with one hand a square box on their head, and holding
in the other a vase for ablutions which they rested on their hip. The one was dressed in a
simple white skirt clinging to the hips and held up by crossed braces; the other, more richly
costumed, was wrapped in a sort of narrow shift, covered with scales alternately red and green.
By the side of the first there were three water-jars, originally filled with Nile water, which,
as it evaporated, had left its mud, and a plate holding some alimentary paste, now dried up.
By the side of the second, two small ships, like the model ships made in seaports, which reproduced
accurately, the one the minutest details of the boats destined to bear the bodies from Diospolis
to Memnonia, the other the symbolical boat in which the soul is carried to the regions of the
West. Nothing was forgotten,--neither the masts, nor the rudder formed of one long sweep, nor
the pilot, nor the oarsmen, nor the mummy surrounded by mourners and lying under the shrine
on a bed with feet formed of lion's claws, nor the allegorical figures of the funeral divinities
fulfilling their sacred functions. Both the boats and the figures were painted in brilliant
colours, and on the two sides of the prow, beak-like as the poop, showed the great Osiris'
eye, made longer still by the use of antimony. The bones and skull of an ox scattered here
and there showed that a victim had been offered up as a scapegoat to the Fate which might have
disturbed the repose of the dead. Coffers painted and bedizened with hieroglyphs were placed
on the tomb; reed tables yet bore the final offerings. Nothing had been touched in this palace
of death since the day when the mummy in its cartonnage and its two coffins had been placed
upon its basalt couch. The worm of the sepulchre, which can find a way through the closest
biers, had itself retreated, driven back by the bitter scent of the bitumen and the aromatic
essences.

"Shall I open the sarcophagus?" said Argyropoulos, after Lord Evandale and Doctor Rumphius
had had time to admire the beauty of the Golden Hall.

"Unquestionably," replied the nobleman; "but take care not to chip the edges of the cover as
you put in your crow-bars, for I propose to carry off the tomb and present it to the British
Museum."

The whole company bent their efforts to displacing the monolith. Wooden wedges were carefully
driven in, and presently the huge stone was moved and slid down the props prepared to receive
it. The sarcophagus having been opened, showed the first bier hermetically sealed. It was a
coffer adorned with paintings and gilding, representing a sort of shrine with symmetrical designs,
lozenges, quadrilles, palm leaves, and lines of hieroglyphs. The cover was opened, and Rumphius,
who was bending over the sarcophagus, uttered a cry of surprise when he discovered the contents
of the coffin, having recognised the sex of the mummy by the absence of the Osiris beard and
the shape of the cartonnage. The Greek himself appeared amazed. His long experience in excavations
enabled him to understand the strangeness of such a find. The valley of Biban el Molûk contains
the tombs of kings only: the necropolis of the queens is situated farther away, in another
mountain gorge. The tombs of the queens are very simple, and usually consist of two or three
passage-ways and one or two rooms. Women in the East have always been considered as inferior
to men, even in death. Most of these tombs, which were broken into at a very distant period,
were used as receptacles for shapeless mummies carelessly embalmed, which still exhibit traces
of leprosy and elephantiasis. How did this woman's coffin come to occupy this royal sarcophagus,
in the centre of this cryptic palace worthy of the most illustrious and most powerful of the
Pharaohs?

"This," said the doctor to Lord Evandale, "upsets all my notions and all my theories. It overthrows
the system most carefully built upon the Egyptian funeral rites, which nevertheless have been
so carefully followed out during thousands of years. No doubt we have come upon some obscure
point, some forgotten mystery of history. A woman did ascend the throne of the Pharaohs and
did govern Egypt. She was called Tahoser, as we learn from the cartouches engraved upon older
inscriptions hammered away. She usurped the tomb as she usurped the throne. Or perhaps some
other ambitious woman, of whom history has preserved no trace, renewed her attempt."

"No one is better able to solve this difficult problem than you," said Lord Evandale. "We will
carry this box full of secrets to our boat, where you will, at your leisure, decipher this
historic document and read the riddle set by these hawks, scarabæi, kneeling figures, serrated
lines, winged uræus, and spatula hands, which you read as readily as did the great Champollion."

The fellahs, under the orders of Argyropoulos, carried off the huge coffer on their shoulders,
and the mummy, performing in an inverse direction the funeral travel it had accomplished in
the days of Moses, in a painted and gilded bari preceded by a long procession, was embarked
upon the sandal which had brought the travellers, soon reached the vessel moored on the Nile,
and was placed in the cabin, which was not unlike, so little do forms change in Egypt, the
shrine of the funeral boat.

Argyropoulos, having arranged about the box all the objects which had been found near it, stood
respectfully at the cabin door and appeared to be waiting. Lord Evandale understood, and ordered
his valet to pay him the twenty-five thousand francs.

The open bier was placed upon rests in the centre of the cabin; it shone as brilliantly as
if the colours had been put on the day before, and framed in the mummy, moulded within its
cartonnage, the workmanship of which was remarkably fine and rich. Never had ancient Egypt
more carefully wrapped up one of her children for the eternal sleep. Although no shape was
indicated by the funeral Hermes, ending in a sheath from which stood out alone the shoulders
and the head, one could guess there was under that thick envelope a young and graceful form.
The gilded mask, with its long eyes outlined with black and brightened with enamel, the nose
with its delicate nostrils, the rounded cheek-bones, the half-open lips smiling with an indescribable,
sphinx-like smile, the chin somewhat short in curve but of extreme beauty of contour, presented
the purest type of the Egyptian ideal, and testified by a thousand small, characteristic details
which art cannot invent, to the individual character of the portrait. Numberless fine plaits
of hair, tressed with cords and separated by bandeaux, fell in opulent masses on either side
of the face. A lotus stem, springing from the back of the neck, bowed over the head and opened
its azure calyx over the dead, cold brow, completing with a funeral cone this rich and elegant
head-dress.

A broad necklace, composed of fine enamels cloisonnés with gold and formed of several rows,
lay upon the lower portion of the neck, and allowed to be seen the clean, firm contour of two
virgin breasts like two golden cups.

The sacred ram-headed bird, bearing between its green horns the red disc of the setting sun
and supported by two serpents wearing the pschent and swelling out their hoods, showed on the
bosom of the figure its monstrous form full of symbolic meaning. Lower down, in the spaces
left free by the crossed zones, and rayed with brilliant colours representing bandages, the
vulture of Phra, crowned with a globe, with outspread wings, the body covered with symmetrically
arranged feathers, and the tail spread out fanwise, held in its talons the huge Tau, emblem
of immortality. The funeral gods, green-faced, with the mouths of monkeys or jackals, held
out with a gesture hieratic in its stiffness the whip, the crook, and the sceptre. The eye
of Osiris opened its red ball outlined with antimony. Celestial snakes swelled their hoods
around the sacred discs; symbolical figures projected their feathered arms; and the two goddesses
of the Beginning and the End, their hair powdered with blue dust, bare down to below the breasts
and the rest of the body wrapped in a close-fitting skirt, knelt in Egyptian fashion on green
and red cushions adorned with heavy tufts.

A longitudinal band of hieroglyphs, springing from the belt and running down to the feet, contained
no doubt some formal funeral ritual, or rather, the names and titles of the deceased, a problem
which Dr. Rumphius promised himself to solve later.

The character of the drawing, the boldness of the lines, the brilliancy of the colours in all
these paintings denoted in the plainest manner to a practised eye that they belonged to the
finest period of Egyptian art. When the English nobleman and his companion had sufficiently
studied this outer case, they drew the cartonnage from the box and set it up against the side
of the cabin, where the funeral form, with its gilded mask, presented a strange spectacle,
standing upright like a materialised spectre and with a seeming attitude of life, after having
preserved so long the horizontal attitude of death on a basalt bed in the heart of the mountain,
opened up by impious curiosity. The soul of the deceased, which had reckoned on eternal rest
and which had taken such care to preserve its remains from violation, must have been moved,
beyond the worlds, in the circuit of its travels and transmigrations.

Dr. Rumphius, armed with a chisel and a hammer, to separate the two parts of the cartonnage
of the mummy, looked like one of those funeral genii which wear a bestial mask and which are
seen in the paintings of the hypogea crowding around the dead in the performance of some frightful
and mysterious rite; the clean profile of Lord Evandale, calm and attentive, made him look
like the divine Osiris awaiting the soul to be judged.

The operation having been at length completed--for the doctor wished not to scale off the gilding,--the
box, resting on the ground, was separated into two parts like the casing of a cast, and the
mummy appeared in all the brilliancy of its death toilet, coquettishly adorned as if it had
wished to charm the genii of the subterranean realms. On opening the case, a faint, delightful,
aromatic odour of cedar liquor, of sandal powder, of myrrh and cinnamon spread through the
cabin of the vessel; for the body had not been gummed up and hardened with the black bitumen
used in embalming the bodies of ordinary persons, and all the skill of the embalmers, the former
inhabitants of Memnonia, seemed to have been directed to the preservation of these precious
remains.

The head was enveloped in a network of narrow bands of fine linen, through which the face showed
faintly. The essences in which they had been steeped had dyed the tissue a beautiful tawny
tint. Over the breast a network of fine tubes of blue glass, very like the long jet beads which
are used to embroider Spanish bodices, with little golden drops wherever the tubes crossed,
fell down to the feet and formed a pearly shroud worthy of a queen. The statuettes of the four
gods of Amenti in hammered gold shone brilliantly, and were symmetrically arranged along the
upper edge of the network, which ended below in a fringe of most tasteful ornaments. Between
the statuettes of the funeral gods was a golden plate, above which a lapis-lazuli scarabæus
spread out its long golden wings. Under the mummy's head was placed a rich mirror of polished
metal, as if it had been desired to give the dead soul an opportunity of beholding the spectre
of its beauty during the long night of the tomb. By the mirror lay a coffer of enamelled ware,
of most precious workmanship, which contained a necklace composed of ivory rings alternating
with beads, gold, lapis-lazuli, and cornelian. By the side of the beauty had been placed also
a narrow, square sandal-wood basin in which, during her lifetime, the dead woman had performed
her perfumed ablutions. Three vases of wavy alabaster fastened to the bier, as was also the
mummy, by a layer of natron, contained, the first two, essences, the scent of which could still
be noticed, and the third, antimony powder and a small spatula for the purpose of colouring
the edge of the eyelids and extending the outer angle according to the antique Egyptian usage,
still practised at the present time by Eastern women.

"What a touching custom!" said Dr. Rumphius, excited by the sight of these treasures; "what
a touching custom it was to bury with a young woman all her pretty toilet articles! For it
is a young woman unquestionably that these linen bands, yellow with time and with essences,
envelop. Compared with the Egyptians, we are downright barbarians; hurried on by our brutal
way of living, we have lost the delicate sense of death. How much tenderness, how much regard,
how much love do not these minute cares reveal, these infinite precautions, these useless caresses
bestowed upon a senseless body,--that struggle to snatch from destruction an adored form and
to restore it intact to the soul on the day of the supreme reunion!"

"Perhaps," replied Lord Evandale, very thoughtful, "our civilisation, which we think so highly
developed, is, after all, but a great decadence which has lost even the historical remembrance
of the gigantic societies which have disappeared. We are stupidly proud of a few ingenious
pieces of mechanism which we have recently invented, and we forget the colossal splendours
and the vast works impossible to any other nation, which are found in the ancient land of the
Pharaohs. We have steam, but steam is less powerful than the force which built the Pyramids,
dug out hypogea, carved mountains into the shapes of sphinxes and obelisks, sealed halls with
one great stone which all our engines could not move, cut out monolithic chapels, and saved
frail human remains from annihilation,--so deep a sense of eternity did it already possess."

"Oh, the Egyptians," said Dr. Rumphius, smiling, "were wonderful architects, amazing artists,
and great scholars. A priest of Memphis and of Thebes could have taught even our German scholars;
and as regards symbolism, they were greater than any symbolists of our day. But we shall succeed
eventually in deciphering their hieroglyphs and penetrating their mysteries. The great Champollion
has made out their alphabet; we shall easily read their granite books. Meanwhile, let us strip,
as delicately as possible, this young beauty who is more than three thousand years of age."

"Poor woman!" murmured the young lord. "Profane eyes will now behold the mysterious charms
which love itself perhaps never saw. Truly, under the empty pretext of scientific pursuit,
we are as barbarous as the Persians of Cambyses, and if I were not afraid of driving to despair
this worthy scholar, I should enclose you again, without having stripped off your last veil,
within the triple box of your bier."

Dr. Rumphius raised from the casing the mummy, which was no heavier than a child's body, and
began to unwrap it with motherly skill and lightness of touch. He first of all undid the outer
envelope of linen, sewed together and impregnated with palm wine, and the broad bands which
here and there girdled the body. Then he took hold of the end of a thin, narrow band, the infinite
windings of which enclosed the limbs of the young Egyptian. He rolled up the band on itself
as cleverly as the most skilful embalmer of the City of the Dead, following it up in all its
meanderings and circumvolutions. As he progressed in his work, the mummy, freed from its envelope,
like a statue which a sculptor blocks out of the marble, appeared more slender and exquisite
in form. The bandage having been unrolled, another narrower one was seen, intended to bind
the body more closely. It was of such fine linen, and so finely woven, that it was comparable
to modern cambric and muslin. This bandage followed accurately every outline, imprisoning the
fingers and the toes, moulding like a mask the features of the face, which was visible through
the thin tissue. The aromatic balm in which it had been steeped had stiffened it, and as it
came away under the fingers of the doctor, it gave out a little dry sound like that of paper
that is being crushed or torn. There remained but one turn to be taken off, and familiar though
he was with such work, Dr. Rumphius stopped for a moment, either through respect for the dead,
or through that feeling which prevents a man from breaking open a letter, from opening a door,
from raising a veil which hides a secret that he burns to learn. He ascribed his momentary
pause to fatigue, and as a matter of fact, the perspiration was dripping from his forehead
without his thinking of wiping it with his great blue-checked handkerchief; but fatigue had
nothing to do with it. Meanwhile the dead form showed through the fine, gauze-like stuff, and
some gold work shone faintly through it as well.

The last wrapping taken off, the young woman showed in the chaste nudity of her lovely form,
preserving, in spite of so many centuries that had passed away, the fulness of her contours,
and the easy grace of her pure lines. Her pose, an infrequent one in the case of mummies, was
that of the Venus of Medici, as if the embalmers had wished to save this beautiful body from
the set attitude of death and to soften the inflexible rigidity of the cadaver.

A cry of admiration was uttered at the same time by Rumphius and Evandale at the sight of the
marvel. Never did a Greek or Roman statue present a more beautiful appearance. The peculiar
characteristics of the Egyptian ideal gave indeed to this lovely body, so miraculously preserved,
a slenderness and a grace lacking in antique marbles,--the long hands, the high-bred, narrow
feet, the nails shining like agate, the slender waist, the shape of the breasts, small and
turned up like a sandal beneath the veil which enveloped it, the slightly protruding contour
of the hip, the roundness of the thigh, the somewhat long leg recalling the slender grace of
the musicians and dancers represented on the frescoes of funeral repasts in the Thebes hypogea.
It was a shape still childish in its gracefulness, yet possessing already all the perfections
of a woman which Egyptian art expresses with such tender suavity, whether it paints the walls
of the passages with a brush, or whether it patiently carves the hard basalt.

As a general rule mummies which have been filled with bitumen and natron resemble black simulacra
carved in ebony; corruption cannot attack them, but the appearance of life is wholly lacking;
the bodies have not returned to the dust whence they came, but they have been petrified in
a hideous shape, which one cannot contemplate without disgust and terror. In this case, the
body, carefully prepared by surer, longer, and more costly processes, had preserved the elasticity
of the flesh, the grain of the skin, and almost its natural colour. The skin, of a light brown,
had the golden tint of a new Florentine bronze, and the amber, warm tone which is admired in
the paintings of Giorgione and Titian covered with a smoky varnish, was not very different
from what must have been the complexion of the young Egyptian during her lifetime. She seemed
to be asleep rather than dead. The eyelids, still fringed with their long lashes, allowed eyes
lustrous with the humid gleam of life to shine between their lines of antimony. One could have
sworn they were about to shake off, as a light dream, their sleep of thirty centuries. The
nose, delicate and fine, preserved its pure outline; no depression deformed the cheeks, which
were as round as the side of a vase; the mouth, coloured with a faint blush, had preserved
its imperceptible lines, and on the lips, voluptuously moulded, fluttered a melancholy and
mysterious smile, full of gentleness, sadness, and charm,--that tender and resigned smile which
pouts so prettily the lips of the adorable heads which surmount the Canopean vases in the Louvre.

Around the forehead, low and smooth in accordance with the laws of antique beauty, was massed
jet-black hair divided and plaited into a multitude of fine tresses which fell on either shoulder.
Twenty golden pins stuck into the tresses, like flowers in a ball head-dress, studded with
brilliant points the thick dark hair which might have been thought artificial, so abundant
was it. Two great earrings, round discs resembling small bucklers, shimmered with yellow light
by the side of the brown cheeks. A magnificent necklace, composed of three rows of divinities
and amulets in gold and precious stones, encircled the neck of the coquettish mummy, and lower
down upon her breast hung two other collars, the pearl, gold, lapis-lazuli, and cornelian rosettes
of which alternated symmetrically with the most perfect taste. A girdle of nearly the same
design enclosed her waist with a belt of gold and gems. A double bracelet of gold and cornelian
beads adorned her left wrist, and on the index of the left hand shone a very small scarabæus
of golden cloisonné enamel, which formed a seal ring and was held by a gold thread most marvellously
plaited.

Strange were the sensations of the two men as they found themselves face to face with a human
being who had lived in the days when history was yet young and was collecting the stories told
by tradition; face to face with a body contemporary with Moses, which yet preserved the exquisite
form of youth; as they touched the gentle little hand impregnated with perfumes, which a Pharaoh
perhaps had kissed; as they fingered the hair, more durable than empire, more solid than granite
monuments. At the sight of the lovely dead girl, the young nobleman felt the retrospective
desire often inspired by the sight of a statue or a painting representing a woman of past days
famous for her beauty. It seemed to him that he would have loved, had he lived three thousand
years earlier, that beauty which nothingness had refused to destroy; and the sympathetic thought
perhaps reached the restless soul that fluttered above its profaned frame.

Far less poetic than the young nobleman, Dr. Rumphius was making the inventory of the gems,
without, however, taking them off; for Evandale had ordered that the mummy should not be deprived
of this last frail consolation. To take away gems from a woman, even dead, is to kill her a
second time. Suddenly a papyrus roll concealed between the side and arm of the mummy caught
the doctor's eye.

"Oh!" said he, "this is no doubt a copy of the funeral ritual placed in the inner coffin and
written with more or less care according to the wealth and rank of the person."

He unrolled the delicate band with infinite precautions. As soon as the first lines showed,
he exhibited surprise, for he did not recognise the ordinary figures and signs of the ritual.
In vain he sought in the usual places for the vignettes representing the funeral, which serve
as a frontispiece to such papyri, nor did he find the Litany of the Hundred Names of Osiris,
nor the soul's passport, nor the petition to the gods of Amenti. Drawings of a peculiar kind
illustrated entirely different scenes connected with human life, and not with the voyage of
the shade to the world beyond. Chapters and paragraphs seemed to be indicated by characters
written in red, evidently for the purpose of distinguishing them from the remainder of the
text, which was in black, and of calling the attention of the reader to interesting points.
An inscription placed at the head appeared to contain the title of the work, and the name of
the grammat who had written or copied it,--so much, at least, did the sagacious intuition of
the doctor make out at the first glance.

"Undoubtedly, my lord, we have robbed Master Argyropoulos," said he to Evandale, as he pointed
out the differences between the papyrus and the usual ritual. "This is the first time that
an Egyptian manuscript has been found to contain anything else than hieratic formulæ. I am
bound to decipher it, even if it costs me my sight, even if my beard grows thrice around my
desk. Yes, I shall ferret out your secret, mysterious Egypt! Yes, I shall learn your story,
you lovely dead; for that papyrus pressed close to your heart by your lovely arm surely contains
it. And I shall be covered with glory, become the equal of Champollion, and make Lepsius die
of jealousy."

The nobleman and the doctor returned to Europe. The mummy, wrapped up again in all its bandages
and replaced within its three cases, rests within Lord Evandale's park in Lincolnshire, in
the basalt sarcophagus which he brought at great expense from Biban el Molûk and which he did
not give to the British Museum. Sometimes Lord Evandale leans upon the sarcophagus, sinks into
a deep reverie, and sighs.

After three years of unflagging application, Dr. Rumphius succeeded in deciphering the mysterious
papyrus, save in some damaged parts, and in others which contained unknown signs. And it is
his translation into Latin--which we have turned into French--that you are about to read, under
the name, "The Romance of a Mummy."

The Romance of a Mummy

I

Oph (that is the name of the city which antiquity called Thebes of the Hundred Gates, or Diospolis
Magna), seemed asleep under the burning beams of the blazing sun. It was noon. A white light
fell from the pale sky upon the baked earth; the sand, shimmering and scintillating, shone
like burnished metal; shadows there were none, save a narrow, bluish line at the foot of buildings,
like the inky line with which an architect draws upon papyrus; the houses, whose walls sloped
well inwards, glowed like bricks in an oven; every door was closed, and no one showed at the
windows, which were closed with blinds of reeds.

At the end of the deserted streets and above the terraces stood out in the hot, transparent
air the tips of obelisks, the tops of pylons, the entablatures of palaces and temples, whose
capitals, formed of human faces or lotus flowers, showed partially, breaking the horizontal
lines of the roofs and rising like reefs amid the mass of private buildings. Here and there
above a garden wall shot up the scaly trunk of a palm tree ending in a plume of leaves, not
one of which stirred, for never a breath blew. Acacias, mimosas, and Pharaoh fig-trees formed
a cascade of foliage that cast a narrow blue shadow upon the dazzling brilliancy of the ground.
These green spots refreshed and enlivened the solemn aridity of the picture, which but for
them would have been that of a dead city.

A few slaves of the Nahasi race, black complexioned, monkey-faced, with bestial gait, alone
braving the heat of the day, were bearing to their masters' homes the water drawn from the
Nile in jars that were hung from a stick placed on their shoulder. Although they wore nothing
but striped drawers wrinkling on their hips, their torsos, brilliant and polished like basalt,
streamed with perspiration as they quickened their pace lest they should scorch the thick soles
of their feet on the pavements, which were as hot as the floor of a vapour bath. The boatmen
were asleep in the cabins of their boats moored to the brick wall of the river quay, sure that
no one would waken them to cross to the other bank, where lay the Memnonia quarter. In the
highest heaven wheeled vultures, whose shrill call, that at any other time would have been
lost in the rumour of the city, could be plainly heard in the general silence. On the cornices
of the monuments two or three ibises, one leg drawn up under their body, their long bill resting
on their breast, seemed to be meditating deeply, and stood out against the calcined, whitish
blue which formed the background.

And yet all did not sleep. From the walls of a great palace whose entablature, adorned with
palmettoes, made a long, straight line against the flaming sky, there came a faint murmur of
music. These bursts of harmony spread now and then through the diaphanous shimmer of the atmosphere,
and the eye might almost have followed their sonorous undulations. Deadened by the thickness
of the walls, the music was strangely sweet. It was a song voluptuously sad, wearily languorous,
expressing bodily fatigue and the discouragement of passion. It was full of the eternal weariness
of the luminous azure, of the indescribable helplessness of hot countries. As the slave passed
by the wall, forgetting the master's lash he would suspend his walk and stop to breathe in
that song, impregnated with all the secret homesickness of the soul, which made him think of
his far distant country, of his lost love, and of the insurmountable obstacles of fate. Whence
came that song, that sigh softly breathed in the silence of the city? What restless soul was
awake when all around was asleep?

The straight lines and the monumental appearance of the façade of the palace, which looked
upon the face of the square, were typical of the civil and religious architecture of Egypt.
The dwelling could belong to a princely or a priestly family only. So much was readily seen
from the materials of which it was built, the careful construction, and the richness of the
ornamentation.

In the centre of the façade rose a great building flanked by two wings surmounted by a roof
in the form of a truncated triangle. A broad, deeply cut moulding of striking profile ended
the wall, in which was visible no opening other than a door placed, not symmetrically in the
centre, but in the corner of the building, no doubt to allow ample space for the staircase
within. A cornice in the same style as the entablature surmounted this single door. The building
projected from a wall on which rested like balconies two stories of galleries, resembling open
porticoes, composed of pillars singularly fantastic in style. The bases of these pillars represented
huge lotus-buds, from the capsule of which, as it opened its dentelated rim, sprang the shaft
like a giant pistil, swelling below, more slender at the top, girdled under the capital by
a collar of mouldings, and ending in a half-blown flower. Between the broad bays were small
windows with their sashes in two parts filled with stained glass. Above ran a terraced roof
flagged with huge slabs of stone.

On the outer galleries great clay vases, rubbed inside with bitter almonds and closed with
leaves, resting upon wooden pedestals, cooled the Nile water in the draughts of air. Tables
bore pyramids of fruits, sheaves of flowers and drinking-cups of different shapes; for the
Egyptians love to eat in the open air, and take their meals, so to speak, upon the public street.
On either side of the main building stretched others rising to the height of one story only,
formed of a row of pillars engaged half-way up in a wall divided into panels in such a manner
as to form around the house a shelter closed to the sun and the gaze of the outer world. All
these buildings, enlivened by ornamental paintings,--for the capitals, the shafts, the cornices,
and the panels were coloured,--produced a delightful and superb effect.

The door opened into a vast court surrounded by a quadrilateral portico supported by pillars,
the capitals of which showed on each face a woman's head, with the ears of a cow, long, narrow
eyes, slightly flattened noses, and a broad smile; each wore a thick red cushion and supported
a cap of hard sandstone. Under the portico opened the doors of the apartments, into which the
light came softened by the shade of the galleries. In the centre of the court sparkled in the
sunshine a pool of water, edged with a margin of Syêné granite. On the surface of the pond
spread the heart-shaped leaves of the lotus, the rose and blue flowers of which were half closed
as if overcome by the heat in spite of the water in which they were plunged. In the flower-beds
around the pool were planted flowers arranged fanlike upon small hillocks, and along the narrow
walks laid out between the beds walked carefully two tame storks, which from time to time snapped
their bills and fluttered their wings as if about to take flight. At the angles of the court
the twisted trunks of four huge persæas exhibited a mass of metallic green foliage. At the
end a sort of pylon broke the portico, and its large bay, framing in the blue air, showed at
the end of a long avenue a summer kiosk of rich and elegant design. In the compartments traced
on the right and on the left of the arbour by dwarf trees cut into the shape of cones, bloomed
pomegranates, sycamores, tamarinds, periplocas, mimosas, and acacias, the flowers of which
shone like coloured lights on the deep green of the foliage which overhung the walls.

The faint, sweet music of which we have spoken proceeded from one of the rooms which opened
into the interior portico. Although the sun shone full into the court, the ground of which
blazed in the flood of light, a blue, cool shadow, transparently intense, filled the apartment,
in which the eye, blinded by the dazzling reverberation, sought to distinguish shapes and at
last made them out when it had become accustomed to the semi-light. A tender lilac tone overspread
the walls of the room, around which ran a cornice painted in brilliant tones and enriched with
small golden palm-branches. Architectural designs skilfully combined formed on the plain spaces
panels which framed in ornaments, sheaves of flowers, birds, diapers of contrasted colours,
and scenes of domestic life.

At the back, near the wall, stood a strangely shaped bed, representing an ox wearing ostrich-feathers
with a disc between its horns, broadening its back to receive the sleeper upon a thin red mattress,
and stiffening by way of feet its black legs ending in green hoofs, while its curled-up tail
was divided into two tufts. This quadruped bed, this piece of animal furniture, would have
seemed strange in any other country than Egypt, where lions and jackals are also turned into
beds by the fancy of the workmen.

In front of the couch was placed a stool with four steps, which gave access to it: at the head,
a pillow of Oriental alabaster, destined to support the neck without deranging the head-dress,
was hollowed out in the shape of a half moon. In the centre a table of precious wood carved
with exceeding care, stood upon a richly carved pedestal. A number of objects were placed upon
it: a pot of lotus flowers, a mirror of polished bronze on an ivory stand, a vase of moss agate
filled with antimony powder, a perfume spatula of sycamore wood in the shape of a woman bare
to the waist stretching out as if she were swimming, and appearing to attempt to hold her box
above the water.

Near the table, on an armchair of gilded wood picked out with red, with blue feet, and with
lions for arms, covered with a thick cushion of purple stuff starred with gold and crossed
with black, the end of which fell over the back, was seated a young woman, or rather, a young
girl of marvellous beauty, in a graceful attitude of nonchalance and melancholy.

Her features, of ideal delicacy, were of the purest Egyptian type, and sculptors must have
often thought of her as they carved the images of Isis and Hathor, even at the risk of breaking
the rigorous hieratic laws. Golden and rosy reflections coloured her warm pallor, in which
showed her long black eyes, made to appear larger by lines of antimony, and full of a languorous,
inexpressible sadness. Those great dark eyes, with the eyebrows strongly marked and the eyelids
coloured, gave a strange expression to the dainty, almost childish face. The half-parted lips,
somewhat thick, of the colour of a pomegranate flower, showed a gleam of polished white and
preserved the involuntary and almost painful smile which imparts so sympathetic a charm to
the Egyptian face. The nose, slightly depressed at the root, where the eyebrows melted one
into another in a velvety shadow, rose in such pure lines, such delicate outlines, and with
such well-cut nostrils that any woman or goddess would have been satisfied with it in spite
of its slightly African profile. The chin was rounded with marvellous elegance and shone like
polished ivory. The cheeks, rather rounder than those of the beauties of other nations, added
to the face an expression of extreme sweetness and gracefulness.

This lovely girl wore for head-dress a sort of helmet formed of a Guinea fowl, the half-closed
wings of which fell upon her temples, and the pretty, small head of which came down to the
centre of her brow, while the tail, marked with white spots, spread out on the back of her
neck. A clever combination of enamel imitated to perfection the plumage of the bird. Ostrich-feathers,
planted in the helmet like an aigrette, completed this head-dress, which was reserved for young
virgins, as the vulture, the symbol of maternity, is worn only by women. The hair of the young
girl, of a brilliant black, plaited into tresses, hung in masses on either side of her smooth,
round cheeks, and fell down to her shoulders. In the shadowy masses of the hair shone, like
suns in a cloud, great discs of gold worn as earrings. From the head-dress hung gracefully
down the back two long bands of stuff with fringed ends. A broad pectoral ornament, composed
of several rows of enamels, gold and cornelian beads, and fishes and lizards of stamped gold,
covered her breast from the lower part of the neck to the upper part of the bosom, which showed
pink and white through the thin warp of the calasiris. The dress, of a large checkered pattern,
was fastened under the bosom with a girdle with long ends, and ended in a broader border of
transverse stripes edged with a fringe. Triple bracelets of lapis-lazuli beads, divided here
and there by golden balls, encircled her slender wrists, delicate as those of a child; and
her lovely, narrow feet with long, supple toes, were shod with sandals of white kid stamped
with designs in gold, and rested on a cedar stool incrusted with red and green enamel.

Near Tahoser (for this was the name of the young Egyptian) knelt, one leg drawn back under
the thigh and the other forming an obtuse angle, in the attitude which the painters love to
reproduce on the walls of hypogea, a female harpist placed upon a sort of low pedestal, destined
no doubt to increase the resonance of the instrument. A piece of stuff striped with coloured
bands, the ends of which, thrown back, hung in fluted lappets, bound her hair and framed in
her face, smiling mysteriously like that of a sphinx. A narrow dress, or rather sheath, of
transparent gauze outlined closely the youthful contours of her elegant, slender form. Her
dress, cut below the breast, left her shoulders, chest, and arms free in their chaste nudity.
A support, fixed to the pedestal on which was placed the player, and traversed by a bolt in
the shape of a key, formed a rest for the harp, the weight of which, but for that, would have
borne wholly upon the shoulders of the young woman. The harp, which ended in a sort of keyboard,
rounded like a shell and covered with ornamental paintings, bore at its upper end a sculptured
head of Hathor surmounted by an ostrich-plume. The nine cords were stretched diagonally and
quivered under the long, slender hands of the harpist, who often, in order to reach the lower
notes, bent with a sinuous motion as if she were about to float on the waves of music and accompany
the vanishing harmony.

Behind her stood another musician, who might have been thought nude but for the faint white
haze which toned the bronze colour of her body. She played on a sort of guitar with an exceedingly
long handle, the three cords of which were coquettishly adorned at their extremity with coloured
tufts. One of her arms, slender yet round, grasped the top of the handle with a sculptural
pose, while the other upheld the instrument and touched the strings.

A third young woman, whose enormous mass of hair made her look all the more slender, beat time
upon a tympanum formed of a wooden frame slightly curved inward, on which was stretched an
onager-skin.

The harpist sang a plaintive melody, accompanied in unison, inexpressibly sad. The words breathed
vague aspirations, vague regrets, a hymn of love to the unknown, and timid plaints of the rigour
of the gods and the cruelty of fate. Tahoser, leaning upon one of the lions of her armchair,
her hand under her cheek and her finger curved against her temple, listened with inattention
more apparent than real, to the song of the musician. At times a sigh made her breast heave
and raised the enamels of her necklace. Sometimes a moist light caused by a growing tear shone
in her eye between the lines of antimony, and her tiny teeth bit her lower lip as if she were
fighting her own emotion.

"Satou," she said, clapping her delicate hands together to silence the musician, who at once
deadened with her palm the vibrations of the harp, "your song enervates me, makes me languid,
and would make me giddy like overpowerful perfumes. The strings of your harp seem to be twisted
with the vibrations of my heart and sound painfully within my breast. You make me almost ashamed,
for it is my soul that mourns in your music. Who can have told you my secrets?"

"Mistress," replied the harpist, "the poet and the musician know everything; the gods reveal
hidden things to them; they express in their rhythm what the thought scarcely conceives and
what the tongue confusedly stammers. But if my song saddens you, I can, by changing its mode,
bring brighter ideas to your mind." And Satou struck the cords of her harp with joyous energy,
and with a quick measure which the tympanum marked with more rapid strokes.

After this prelude she began a song praising the charms of wine, the intoxication of perfumes,
and the delight of the dance. Some of the women, who, seated upon folding-stools formed of
the necks of blue swans, whose yellow bills clasped the frame of the seat, or kneeling upon
scarlet cushions filled with the down of thistles, had assumed under the influence of Satou's
music poses of utter languor, shivered; their nostrils swelled; they breathed in the magic
rhythm; they rose to their feet, and, moved by an irresistible impulse, began to dance. A head-dress,
in the shape of a helmet cut out around the ear, enclosed their hair, some locks of which escaped
and fell upon their brown cheeks, which the ardour of the dance soon turned rosy. Broad golden
circles beat upon their necks, and through their long gauze shifts, embroidered at the top
with pearls, showed their golden bronze bodies which moved with the ease of an adder. They
twisted, turned, swayed their hips, bound with a narrow black girdle, threw themselves back,
bowed down, inclined their heads to right and left as if they found a secret voluptuousness
in touching their polished chins with their cold, bare shoulders, swelled out their breasts
like doves, knelt and rose, pressed their hands to their bosom or voluptuously outspread their
arms, which seemed to flutter as the wings of Iris or Nephthys, dragged their limbs, bent the
knee, displayed their swift feet with little staccato movements, and followed every undulation
of the music. The maids, standing against the wall to leave free space for the evolutions of
the dancers, marked the rhythm by snapping their fingers or clapping their hands together.
Some of these maids, absolutely nude, had no other raiment than a bracelet of enamelled ware;
others wore a narrow cloth held by straps, and a few sprays of flowers twisted in their hair.
It was a strange and graceful sight. The buds and the flowers, gently moving, shed their perfume
through the hall, and these young women, thus wreathed, might have suggested fortunate comparisons
to poets.

But Satou had overestimated the power of her art. The joyous rhythm seemed to increase Tahoser's
melancholy. A tear rolled down her fair cheek like a drop of Nile water on a nymphoea, and
hiding her face in the breast of her favourite maid, who leaned upon the armchair of her mistress,
she uttered with a sob, dovelike in its sadness, "Oh, my dear Nofré, I am very sad and very
unhappy!"

II

Nofré, anticipating some confidence, made a sign, and the harpist, the two musicians, the dancers,
and the maids silently withdrew one by one, like the figures painted on frescoes. When the
last had gone, the favourite said to her mistress in a petting, sympathetic tone, like a young
mother soothing her child's tender grief,--

"What is the matter, dear mistress, that you are sad and unhappy? Are you not young, so fair
that the loveliest envy you, and free to do what you please? And did not your father, the high-priest
Petamounoph, whose mummy rests concealed within a rich tomb,--did he not leave you great wealth
to do with as you please? Your palace is splendid, your gardens vast and watered by transparent
streams, your coffers of enamelled ware and sycamore wood are filled with necklaces, pectorals,
neck-plates, anklets, finely wrought seal-rings. Your gowns, your calasiris, your head-dresses
are greater in number than the days of the year. Hopi, the father of waters, regularly covers
with his fertilising mud your domains, which a vulture flying at top speed could scarce traverse
from sunrise to sunrise. And yet your heart, instead of opening joyously like a lotus bud in
the month of Hathor or of Choeak, closes and contracts painfully."

Tahoser answered Nofré:--

"Yes, indeed, the gods of the higher zones have treated me favourably. But what matter one's
possessions if one lacks the one thing desired? An unsatisfied wish makes the rich as poor,
in his gilded, brightly painted palace, in the midst of his heaps of grain, of perfumes and
precious things, as the most wretched workman of the Memnonia, who sops up with sawdust the
blood of the bodies, or the semi-nude negro driving on the Nile his frail papyrus-boat under
the burning midday sun."

Nofré smiled, and said with a look of imperceptible raillery,--

"Is it possible, O mistress, that a single one of your fancies has not been fulfilled at once?
If you want a jewel, you give the workman an ingot of pure gold, cornelians, lapis-lazuli,
agates, and hematite, and he carries out the wished-for design. It is the same way with gowns,
cars, perfumes, flowers, and musical instruments. From Philæ to Heliopolis your slaves seek
out for you what is most beautiful and most rare; and if Egypt does not hold what you want,
caravans bring it to you from the ends of the world."

The lovely Tahoser shook her pretty head and seemed annoyed at her confidante's lack of intelligence.

"Forgive me, mistress," said Nofré, changing her tone as she understood that she had made a
mistake. "I had forgotten that it will soon be four months since the Pharaoh left on his expedition
to Upper Ethiopia, and that the handsome oëris (general), who never passed under the terrace
without looking up and slowing his steps, accompanies His Majesty. How well he looked in his
uniform, how handsome, young, and bold!"

Tahoser's rosy lips half parted, as if she were about to speak, but a faint, rosy flush spread
over her cheeks, she bowed her head, and the words ready to issue forth did not unfold their
sonorous wings.

The maid thought she had guessed right, and continued,--

"In that case, mistress, your grief will soon end, for this morning a breathless runner arrived,
announcing the triumphal return of the king before sundown. Have you not already heard innumerable
rumours buzzing confusedly over the city, which is awakening from its midday torpor? List!
The wheels of the cars sound upon the stone slabs of the streets, and already the people are
hurrying in compact bodies to the river bank, to cross it and reach the parade ground. Throw
off your languor and come also to see that wondrous spectacle. When one is sad, one ought to
mingle with the crowd, for solitude feeds sombre thoughts. From his chariot Ahmosis will smile
graciously upon you, and you will return happier to your palace."

"Ahmosis loves me, but I do not love him," answered Tahoser.

"You speak as a maid," replied Nofré, who was very much smitten with the handsome officer,
and who thought that the disdainful nonchalance of Tahoser was assumed. In point of fact, Ahmosis
was a very handsome fellow. His profile resembled that of the images of the gods carved by
the most skilful sculptors. His proud, regular features equalled in beauty those of a woman;
his slightly aquiline nose, his brilliant black eyes lengthened with antimony, his polished
cheeks, smooth as Oriental alabaster, his well-shaped lips, his tall, handsome figure, his
broad chest, his narrow hips, his strong arms on which, however, no muscle stood out in coarse
relief, were all that were needed to seduce the most difficult to please; but Tahoser did not
love him, whatever Nofré might think. Another idea, which she refrained from expressing, for
she did not believe Nofré capable of understanding her, helped the young girl to make up her
mind. She threw off her languor, and rose from her armchair with a vivacity quite unexpected
after the broken-down attitude she had preserved during the singing and the dancing.

Nofré, kneeling before her, fastened on her feet sandals with turned-up ends, cast scented
powder on her hair, drew from a box several bracelets in the shape of serpents, and a few rings
with sacred scarabæi for gems, put on her cheeks a green powder which immediately turned rose-colour
as it touched the skin, polished her nails with a cosmetic, and adjusted the somewhat rumpled
folds of her calasiris like a zealous maid who means that her mistress shall show to the greatest
advantage. Then she called two or three servants, and ordered them to make ready the boat and
transport to the other side of the river the chariot and oxen.

The palace, or if this name seems too pompous, the dwelling of Tahoser, rose close to the Nile,
from which it was separated by gardens only. Petamounoph's daughter, her hand resting on Nofré's
shoulder, and preceded by her servants, walked down to the water-gate through the arbour, the
broad leaves of which, softening the rays of the sun, flecked with light shadows her lovely
face. She soon reached the wide brick quay, on which swarmed a mighty multitude, awaiting the
departure or return of the boats.

The vast city held now only the sick, the invalids, old people unable to move, and the slaves
left in charge of the houses. Through the streets, the squares, the dromos (temple avenues),
down the sphinx avenues, through the pylons, along the quays, flowed streams of human beings
all bound for the Nile. The multitude exhibited the strangest variety. The Egyptians were there
in largest numbers, and were recognisable by their clean profile, their tall, slender figures,
their fine linen robes or their carefully pleated calasiris. Some, their heads enveloped in
striped green or blue cloth, with narrow drawers closely fitting to their loins, showed to
the belt their bare torsos the colour of baked clay. Against this mass of natives stood out
divers members of exotic races: negroes from the Upper Nile, as black as basalt gods, their
arms bound round with broad ivory rings, their ears adorned with barbaric ornaments; bronzed
Ethiopians, fierce-eyed, uneasy, and restless in the midst of this civilisation, like wild
beasts in the glare of day; Asiatics with their pale-yellow complexion and their blue eyes,
their beard curled in spirals, wearing a tiara fastened by a band, and draped in heavily embroidered,
fringed robes; Pelasgi, dressed in wild beasts' skins fastened on the shoulder, showing their
curiously tattooed legs and arms, wearing feathers in their hair, with two long love-locks
hanging down. Through the multitude gravely marched shaven-headed priests with a panther's-skin
twisted around their body in such a way that the head of the animal formed a sort of belt-buckle,
byblos shoes on their feet, in their hand a tall acacia-stick on which were engraved hieroglyphic
characters; soldiers, their silver-studded daggers by their side, their bucklers on their backs,
their bronze axes in their hands; distinguished personages, their breasts adorned with neck-plates
of honour, to whom the slaves bowed low, bringing their hands close to the ground; and sliding
along the walls with humble and sad mien, poor, half-nude women travelling along bowed under
the weight of their children suspended from their neck in rags of stuff or baskets of espartero;
while handsome girls, accompanied by three or four maids, passed proudly with their long, transparent
dresses knotted under their breasts with long, floating scarfs, sparkling with enamels, pearls,
and gold, and giving out a fragrance of flowers and aromatic essences.

Among the foot-passengers went litters borne by Ethiopians running rapidly and rhythmically;
light carts drawn by spirited horses with plumed headgear; ox chariots moving slowly along
and bearing a whole family. Scarcely did the crowd, careless of being run over, draw aside
to make room, and often the drivers were forced to strike with their whips those who were slow
or obstinate in moving away.

The greatest animation reigned on the river, which, notwithstanding its breadth, was so covered
with boats of all kinds that the water was invisible along the whole stretch of the city; all
manner of craft, from the bark with raised poop and prow and richly painted and gilded cabin
to the light papyrus skiff,--everything had been called into use. Even the boats used to ferry
cattle and to carry freight, and the reed rafts kept up by skins, which generally carried loads
of clay vessels, had not been disdained. The waters of the Nile, beaten, lashed, and cut by
oars, sweeps, and rudders, foamed like the sea, and formed many an eddy that broke the force
of the current.

The build of the boats was as varied as it was picturesque. Some were finished off at each
end with a great lotus flower curving inwards, the stem adorned with fluttering flags; others
were forked at the poop which rose to a point; others again were crescent-shaped, with horns
at either end; others bore a sort of a castle or platform on which stood the pilots; still
others were composed of three strips of bark bound with cords, and were driven by a paddle.
The boats for the transport of animals and chariots were moored side by side, supporting a
platform on which rested a floating bridge to facilitate embarking and disembarking. The number
of these was very great. The horses, terrified, neighed and stamped with their sounding hoofs;
the oxen turned restlessly towards the shore their shining noses whence hung filaments of saliva,
but grew calmer under the caresses of their drivers. The boatswains marked time for the rowers
by striking together the palms of their hands; the pilots, perched on the poop or walking about
on the raised cabins, shouted their orders, indicating the manoeuvres necessary to make way
through the moving labyrinth of vessels. Sometimes, in spite of all precautions, boats collided,
and crews exchanged insults or struck at each other with their oars. These countless crafts,
most of them painted white and adorned with ornaments of green, blue, or red, laden with men
and women dressed in many-coloured costumes, caused the Nile to disappear entirely over an
extent of many miles, and presented under the brilliant Egyptian sun a spectacle dazzling in
its changefulness. The water, agitated in every direction, surged, sparkled, and gleamed like
quicksilver, and resembled a sun shattered into millions of pieces.

Tahoser entered her barge, which was decorated with wondrous richness. In the centre stood
a cabin, its entablature surmounted with a row of uræus-snakes, the angles squared to the shape
of pillars, and the walls adorned with designs. A binnacle with pointed roof stood on the poop,
and was matched at the other end by a sort of altar enriched with paintings. The rudder consisted
of two huge sweeps, ending in heads of Hathor, that were fastened with long strips of stuff
and worked upon hollow posts. On the mast shivered--for the east wind had just risen--an oblong
sail fastened to two yards, the rich stuff of which was embroidered and painted with lozenges,
chevrons, birds, and chimerical animals in brilliant colours; from the lower yard hung a fringe
of great tufts.

The moorings cast off and the sail braced to the wind, the vessel left the bank, sheering with
its sharp prow between the innumerable boats, the oars of which became entangled and moved
about like the legs of a scarabæus thrown over on its back. It sailed on carelessly amidst
a stream of insults and shouts. Its greater power enabled it to disdain collisions which would
have run down frailer vessels. Besides, Tahoser's crew were so skilful that their vessel seemed
endowed with life, so swiftly did it obey the rudder and avoid in the nick of time serious
obstacles. Soon it had left behind the heavily laden boats with their cabins filled with passengers
inside, and on the roof three or four rows of men, women, and children crouching in the attitude
so dear to the Egyptian people. These individuals, so kneeling, might have been mistaken for
the assistant judges of Osiris, had not their faces, instead of bearing the expression of meditation
suited to funeral councillors, expressed the most unmistakable delight. The fact was that the
Pharaoh was returning victorious, bringing vast booty with him. Thebes was given up to joy,
and its whole population was proceeding to welcome the favourite of Ammon Ra, Lord of the Diadem,
the Emperor of the Pure Region, the mighty Aroëris, the Sun God and the Subduer of Nations.

Tahoser's barge soon reached the opposite bank. The boat bearing her car came alongside almost
at the same moment. The oxen ascended the flying bridge, and in a few minutes were yoked by
the alert servants who had been landed with them.

The oxen were white spotted with black, and bore on their heads a sort of tiara which partly
covered the yoke; the latter was fastened by broad leather straps, one of which passed around
the neck of the oxen, and the other, fastened to the first, passed under their belly. Their
high withers, their broad dewlaps, their clean limbs, their small hoofs, shining like agate,
their tails with the tuft carefully combed, showed that they were thorough-bred and that hard
field-work had never deformed them. They exhibited the majestic placidity of Apis, the sacred
bull, when it receives homage and offerings.

The chariot, extremely light, could hold two or three persons standing. The semicircular body,
covered with ornaments and gilding arranged in graceful curved lines, was supported by a sort
of diagonal stay, which rose somewhat beyond the upper edge and to which the traveller clung
with his hand when the road was rough or the speed of the oxen rapid. On the axle, placed at
the back of the body in order to diminish the jolting, were two six-spoked wheels held by keyed
bolts. On top of a staff planted at the back of the vehicle spread a parasol in the shape of
palm leaves.

Nofré, bending over the edge of the chariot, held the reins of the oxen, bridled like horses,
and drove the car in the Egyptian fashion, while Tahoser, motionless by her side, leaned a
hand, studded with rings from the little finger to the thumb, on the gilded moulding of the
shell. These two lovely maidens, the one brilliant with enamels and precious stones, the other
scarcely veiled in a transparent tunic of gauze, formed a charming group on the brilliantly
painted car. Eight or ten men-servants, dressed in tunics with transverse stripes, the folds
of which were massed in front, accompanied the equipage, keeping step with the oxen.

On this side of the river the crowd was not less great. The inhabitants of the Memnonia quarters
and of the neighbouring villages were arriving in their turn, and every moment the boats, landing
their passengers on the brick quay wall, brought additional sight-seers to swell the multitude.
The wheels of innumerable chariots, all driving towards the parade ground, flashed like suns
in the golden dust which they raised. Thebes at that moment must have been as deserted as if
a conqueror had carried away its people into captivity.

The frame, too, was worthy of the picture. In the midst of green fields whence rose the aigrettes
of the dôm palms, showed in bright colours houses of pleasaunce, palaces, and summer homes
surrounded by sycamores and mimosas. Pools of water sparkled in the sunshine, the festoons
of vines climbed on the arched arbours, and in the background stood out the gigantic pylons
of the palace of Rameses Meïamoun, with its huge pylons, its enormous walls, its gilded and
painted flagstaffs from which the colours blew out in the wind; and further to the north the
two colossi sitting in postures of eternal immobility, mountains of granite in human shape,
before the entrance to the Amenophium, showed through a bluish haze, half masking the still
more distant Rhamesseium, and beyond it the tomb of the high-priest, but allowing the palace
of Menephta to be seen at one of its angles.

Nearer the Lybian chain, from the Memnonian quarter inhabited by the undertakers, dissectors,
and embalmers, went up into the blue air the red smoke of the natron boilers, for the work
of death never ceased; in vain did life spread tumultuously around, the bandages were being
prepared, the cases moulded, the coffins carved with hieroglyphs, and some cold body was stretched
out upon the funeral bed, with feet of lion or jackal, waiting to have its toilet made for
eternity.

On the horizon, but, owing to the transparency of the air, seeming to be much nearer, the Libyan
mountains showed against the clear sky their limestone crests and their barren slopes hollowed
out into hypogea and passages.

Looking towards the other bank the prospect was no less wondrous. Against the vaporous background
of the Arabian chain, the gigantic pile of the Northern Palace, which distance itself could
scarce diminish, reared above the flat-roofed dwellings its mountains of granite, its forest
of giant pillars, rose-coloured in the rays of the sunshine. In front of the palace stretched
a vast esplanade reaching down to the river by a staircase placed at the angles; in the centre
an avenue of ram-headed sphinxes perpendicular to the Nile, led to a huge pylon, in front of
which stood two colossal statues and a pair of obelisks, the pyramidions of which, rising above
the cornice, showed their flesh-coloured points against the uniform blue of the sky. Beyond
and above the boundary wall rose the side façade of the temple of Ammon. More to the right
were the temples of Khons and Oph. A giant pylon, seen in profile and facing to the south,
and two obelisks sixty cubits in height, marked the beginning of that marvellous avenue of
two thousand sphinxes with lions' bodies and rams' heads, which reached from the Northern Palace
to the Southern Palace. On the pedestals could be seen swelling the huge quarters of the first
row of these monsters, that turned their backs to the Nile. Farther still, there showed faintly
in the rosy light cornices on which the mystic globe outspread its vast wings, heads of placid-faced
colossi, corners of mighty buildings, needles of granite, terraces rising above terraces, columns
of palm trees growing like tufts of grass amid these vast constructions; and the Palace of
the South uprose, with high painted walls, flag-adorned staffs, sloping doors, obelisks, and
herds of sphinxes. Beyond, as far as the eye could reach, Oph stretched out with its palaces,
its priests' colleges, its houses, and in the dimmest distance the crests of its walls and
the summits of its gates showed as faint blue lines.

Tahoser gazed upon the prospect which was so familiar to her, but her glance expressed no admiration;
however, as she passed a house almost buried amid luxuriant vegetation, she lost her apathy,
and seemed to seek on the terraces and on the outer gallery some well-known form.

A handsome young man, carelessly leaning against one of the slender pillars of the building,
appeared to be watching the crowd, but his dark eyes, with their dreamy look, did not rest
on the chariot which bore Tahoser and Nofré.

Meanwhile the hand of the daughter of Petamounoph clung nervously to the edge of the car; her
cheeks turned pale under the light touch of rouge which Nofré had put on, and as if she felt
herself fainting, she breathed in rapidly and often the scent of her nosegay of lotus.

III

In spite of her usual perspicacity, Nofré had not noticed the effect produced on her mistress
by the sight of the careless stranger. She had observed neither her pallor, followed by a deep
blush, nor the brighter gleam of her glance nor the rustling of the enamels and pearls of her
necklace rising and falling with her bosom. It is true that her whole attention was given to
the management of the equipage, which presented a good deal of difficulty in view of the ever
denser masses of sight-seers crowding to be present at the triumphal entrance of the Pharaoh.

At last the car reached the parade ground, a vast enclosure carefully levelled for military
displays. Great banks, which must have cost thirty enslaved nations the labour of years, formed
a bold framework for the immense parallelogram. Sloping revetment walls of unbaked bricks covered
the banks, and the crests were lined many files deep by hundreds of thousands of Egyptians,
whose white or brightly striped costumes fluttered in the sun with that constant motion characteristic
of a multitude even when it seems to be motionless. Behind this ring of spectators the cars,
chariots, and litters watched by the coachmen, drivers, and slaves, seemed to be the camp of
a migrating nation, so great was their number; for Thebes, the wonder of the ancient world,
reckoned more inhabitants than do certain kingdoms. The fine, smooth sand of the vast arena
lined with a million people, sparkled under the light, falling from a sky as blue as the enamel
of the Osiris statuettes.

On the southern side of the parade ground the revetment wall was cut through by a road which
ran towards Upper Egypt along the foot of the Libyan chain. At the opposite corner the revetment
was again cut so that the road was prolonged to the palace of Rameses Meïamoun through the
thick brick walls. Petamounoph's daughter and Nofré, for whom the servants had made room, stood
on this corner on the top of the wall, so that they could see the whole procession pass at
their feet.

A mighty rumour, low, deep, and powerful, like that of an advancing ocean, was heard in the
distance and drowned the innumerable noises arising from the crowd, as the roar of a lion silences
the yelping of a tribe of jackals. Soon the separate sounds of the instruments were heard amidst
the thunderous noise produced by the driving of war chariots and the rhythmic marching of the
soldiers. A sort of reddish mist like that raised by the desert wind filled the sky in that
direction, and yet there was no breeze,--not a breath of air,--and the most delicate branches
of the palms were as motionless as if they had been carved on granite capitals. Not a hair
moved on the wet temples of the women, and the fluted lappets of their head-dresses fell limp
behind their backs. The dusty mist was produced by the army on the march, and hovered above
it like a dun-coloured cloud.

The roar increased, the cloud of dust opened, and the first files of musicians debouched into
the vast arena, to the intense delight of the multitude, which, notwithstanding its respect
for the majesty of the Pharaoh, was beginning to weary of waiting under a sunshine which would
have melted any but Egyptian skulls.

The advance guard of musicians stopped for a few moments. Delegations of priests and deputations
of the chief inhabitants of Thebes crossed the parade ground to meet the Pharaoh, and drew
up in double line in attitudes of the deepest respect so as to leave a free passage for the
procession.

The music, which alone might have formed a small army, was composed of drums, tambourines,
trumpets, and sistra. The first squad passed, blowing a sounding blare of triumph through its
short copper bugles that shone like gold. Every one of these musicians carried a second bugle
under his arm, as if the instrument were likely to be worn out before the man. The costume
of the trumpeters consisted of a short tunic bound by a sash the broad ends of which fell in
front. A narrow band upholding two ostrich-plumes fastened their thick hair. The plumes thus
placed looked like the antennæ of a scarabæus, and imparted to those who wore them a quaint,
insect-like appearance.

The drummers, clad in a mere pleated kilt and bare to the belt, struck with sycamore sticks
the wild-ass-skin stretched over their kettledrums suspended from a leather baldric, keeping
the time which the drum major marked by clapping his hands as he frequently turned towards
them. Next to the drummers came the sistrum players, who shook their instruments with sharp,
quick movements, and at regular intervals made the metal rings sound upon the four bronze bars.
The tambourine players carried transversely before them their oblong instrument fastened by
a scarf passed behind their neck, and struck with both fists the skin stretched on either end.

Each band numbered not less than two hundred men, but the storm of sound produced by the bugles,
drums, sistra, and tambourines, which would have been deafening within the palace, was in no
wise too loud or too tremendous under the vast cupola of the heavens, in the centre of that
immense space, amid buzzing multitudes, at the head of an army which baffles enumeration and
which was advancing with the roar of great waters. Besides, were eight hundred musicians too
many to precede the Pharaoh, beloved of Ammon Ra, represented by colossi of basalt and granite
sixty cubits high, whose name was written on the cartouches of imperishable monuments, and
whose story was carved and painted upon the walls of the hypostyle halls, on the sides of pillars,
in endless bassi-relievi and innumerable frescoes? Was it too much indeed for a king who dragged
a hundred conquered nations by their hair, and from the height of his throne ruled the nations
with his whip? For the living Sun that flamed on dazzled eyes? For one who, save that he did
not possess eternal life, was a god?

Behind the music came the captive barbarians, strange to look at, with bestial faces, black
skins, woolly hair, as much like monkeys as men, and dressed in the costume of their country,--a
skirt just above the hips held by a single brace, embroidered with ornaments in divers colours.
An ingenious cruelty had directed the binding together of the prisoners. Some were bound by
the elbows behind the back; others by their hands raised above their head, in the most uncomfortable
position; others again had their wrists caught in stocks; others with their neck in an iron
collar or held by a rope which fastened a whole file of them, with a loop for each victim.
It seemed as if the object sought had been to thwart as much as possible natural attitudes
in the fettering of these poor wretches, who marched before their conqueror awkwardly and with
difficulty, rolling their big eyes and twisting and writhing in pain. Guards marched at their
side, striking them with sticks to make them keep time.

Next came, bowed with shame, exposed in their wretched, deformed nudity, dark-complexioned
women, with long hanging tresses, carrying their children in a piece of stuff fastened around
their brow,--a vile herd intended for the meanest uses. Others, young, handsome and fairer,
their arms adorned with broad bracelets of ivory, their ears pulled down by great metal discs,
wrapped themselves in long, wide-sleeved tunics embroidered around the neck and falling in
fine, close folds down to their ankles, on which rattled anklets,--poor girls, snatched from
their country, their parents, their lovers perhaps; yet they smiled through their tears, for
the power of beauty is boundless, strangeness gives birth to caprice, and perhaps the royal
favour awaited some of these barbaric captives in the secret depths of the harem. Soldiers
accompanied them and kept the multitude from crowding upon them.

The standard-bearers followed, bearing on high the golden staff of their ensigns, which represented
mystic baris, sacred hawks, heads of Hathor surmounted by ostrich-plumes, winged ibex, cartouches
bearing the king's name, crocodiles, and other warlike or religious symbols. Long white streamers
spotted with black spots were tied to these standards, and fluttered gracefully on the march.

At the sight of the standards which announced the arrival of the Pharaoh, the deputations of
priests and notables stretched out their hands in supplication towards him, or let them fall
on their knees, the palms turned up. Some even prostrated themselves, their knees close to
the body, their faces in the dust, in an attitude of absolute submission and deep adoration,
while the spectators waved great palm-branches.

A herald or reader, holding in his hand a roll covered with hieroglyphic signs, marched along
between the standard-bearers and the incense-burners, who preceded the king's litter. He shouted,
in a loud voice as sonorous as a brazen trumpet, the victories of the Pharaoh; he related the
fortunes of the Pharaoh's battles, announced the number of captives and of war chariots taken
from the enemy, the amount of the booty, the measures of gold-dust, the elephants' tusks, the
ostrich-plumes, the quantities of balsamic gum, the giraffes, lions, panthers, and other rare
animals. He named the barbaric chiefs who had been slain by the javelins of His Majesty the
Almighty Aroëris, favourite of the gods. At each proclamation the people uttered a mighty shout,
and from the top of the revetment banks threw down upon the conqueror's pathway long, green
palm-branches.

At last the Pharaoh appeared. Priests, who turned and faced him at regular intervals, swung
their censers, after having cast incense upon the coals lighted in a little bronze cup which
was held by a hand at the end of a sort of sceptre topped by a sacred animal's head. They marched
respectfully backwards while the scented blue smoke rose to the nostrils of the triumphant
sovereign, apparently as indifferent to these honours as if he were a god of bronze or basalt.

Twelve oëris, or military chiefs, their heads covered with a light helmet surmounted by an
ostrich-plume, bare to the belt, their loins wrapped in a loin cloth of stiff folds, wearing
their buckler hanging from their belt, supported a sort of dais on which rested the throne
of the Pharaoh. This was a chair with feet and arms formed of lions, with a high back provided
with a cushion that fell over it, and adorned on its sides with a network of rose and blue
flowers. The feet, the arms, and the edges of the throne were gilded, while brilliant colours
filled the places left empty. On either side of the litter four fan-bearers waved huge feather
fans, semicircular in form, carried at the end of long, gilded handles. Two priests bore a
huge cornucopia richly ornamented, whence fell quantities of giant lotus-flowers.

The Pharaoh wore a helmet shaped like a mitre and cut out around the ears, where it fell over
the neck by way of a protection. On the blue ground of the helmet sparkled innumerable dots
like birds' eyes, formed of three circles, black, white, and red. It was adorned with scarlet
and yellow lines, and the symbolic uræus snake, twisting its golden scales on the fore part,
rose and swelled above the royal brow. Two long, purple, fluted lappets fell upon his shoulders
and completed this majestic head-dress.

A broad necklace, of seven rows of enamels, gems, and golden beads, swelled on the Pharaoh's
breast and shone in the sun. His upper garment was a sort of close-fitting jacket, of rose
and black checkers, the ends of which, shaped like narrow bands, were twisted tightly several
times around the bust. The sleeves, which came down to the biceps and were edged with transverse
lines of gold, red, and blue, showed round, firm arms, the left provided with a broad wristlet
of metal intended to protect it from the switch of the cord when the Pharaoh shot an arrow
from his triangular bow. His right arm was adorned with a bracelet formed of a serpent twisted
several times on itself, and in his hand he held a long golden sceptre ending in a lotus-bud.
The rest of the body was enveloped in the finest linen cloth with innumerable folds, held to
the hips by a girdle inlaid with plates of enamel and gold. Between the jacket and the belt,
the torso showed, shining and polished like rose granite worked by a skilful workman. Sandals
with pointed upturned toes protected his long narrow feet, which were held close to one another
like the feet of the gods on the walls of the temples. His smooth, beardless face with its
great, regular features, which it seemed impossible for any human emotion to alter, and which
the blood of vulgar life did not colour, with its deathlike pallor, its closed lips, its great
eyes made larger still by black lines, the eyelids of which never closed any more than did
those of the sacred hawk,--inspired through its very immobility respect and awe. It seemed
as though those fixed eyes gazed upon eternity and the infinite only; surrounding objects did
not appear to be reflected in them. The Bull of the Holy Cross produces
more than two and a half million pesetas every year, it must also be taken into account what parishes
taken from their faithful, and annual profits of religious orders for his ministry and crafts
(it really is starting fat), and the ecclesiastical budget municipalities and provincial councils
.... In short, the Church, speaking at all hours his "poverty", out of state and country more
than three hundred million pesetas every year: almost twice what it costs the army, and why in
the sacristy complain times modern, saying that they eat all the military and they are to blame
as occurs, for having gone to the damn freedom. Three hundred million, Gabriel! I have it good
calculated. And I form part of this institution, I have seven dollars a month, and most of the
vicars of Spain paid less than a guard Consumption and thousands of clergy walk to mouth of sacristy
sacristy, looking for a church to put the fire stew, and if not take to the road crews clerics
to steal, is because they fear the Civil Guard, and after two days of hunger comes a third where
they can eat a crust! There is always a crumb to entertain the hungry. No robe falls in the
middle of the street faint necessary, but many clergymen who go there fooling the stomach, imagining
that are fed until it reaches a condition anyone who takes them in the world ... Whither, So all that
money? The aristocracy of the Church, the true priestly caste, as us, in religion, people are downstairs.
What a fraud, Gabriel! Give love and family, fleeing the profane pleasures of theater, concerts
and coffee; be watched by men, even for those thrown out of religious, as strange beings, an
intermediate between the female and male, dragging skirts, dresses go at all times as a dismal
mess, and for so many sacrifices to earn less than biting stone on the road. We live rested,
certainly we will not fall from a scaffold; but our misery is greater than that of many workers,
and we can not confess or get to beg alms for the prestige, habit. Besides, why they should help
if loans do not cost us any practical value to the country ... so expensive? At the end of
domination religion in Spain, just us, the underdogs, we suffered the consequences. The priest
is poor, the temple is poor too, but the prince of the Church retains its thousands of dollars
a year and the church staff is quiet in his songs, seeing that imperiled pittance. The revolution,
so far, has only hurt the church populace. The power of the Church has done, is no longer living,
what we see is his body, but a corpse enormous, it will cost to remove, and eats a lot of money
for conservation.

- It's true: the Church is dead. What fight are his remains. The common people still thought
lives because they see it and touch it, unaware that a religion in your life forever by the
minute and passing generations and generations between his death
and burial.

Centuries before birth Jesus was already dead paganism. The poets of Athens laughed at the
scene of the gods Olympic philosophers despised. However, many still needed Christianity years
of propaganda and political support of the Caesars to destroy him. And not just yet, because the
dogmas are like men, that when you die perpetuate something of his being in the family happens.
Religions do not disappear suddenly, by trapdoor, was slowly extinguished, infiltrating some
of their beliefs and rituals in religion that replaces them. We born in one of these periods
of transformation, witnessing the death of an entire world beliefs. How long will the agony?
Who knows! Two hundred, maybe less, as late crystallize in mankind a new manifestation of their uncertainty
and fear of the great mystery of Nature. But death is certain, indisputable. What religion
has been eternal? The symptoms of death are everywhere. Where is the faith that drew to the
bellicose crowd of crusaders? Where is the fervor that raised cathedrals seraphic patience
for two hundred years to hold a wafer under a mountain of stone? Who whips and tortures are
now meat and live in the desert, thinking all the time in death and hell ...? In Spain, three
centuries of intolerance, excessive clerical pressure, have made our nation the most indifferent
in religious matters. Ceremonies are followed routine of worship, because they speak to the imagination,
but nobody takes the time to meet the foundation of the beliefs he professes, it accepts everything
without thinking, we live at ease, with the assurance that at the last minute just dying between
priests with a crucifix in hand, to save the soul. Pressed both in the past priests, friars
and inquisitors, the machine of the faith sprang into pieces, and no one can fix this device,
which requires the cooperation of all .... And this was fortunate, Don Martin. A century of intolerance
religious, and Spain would have been like those African Muslims living in barbarism as being
too religious, having been the Arab civilizing of Cordoba and Granada.

- Do you know - said the young priest - why Catholicism retains its appearance of power? Because since
ancient times have taken in the Latin countries all avenues through which a necessarily passing of
human life.

- It's true. No religion has been so cautious as this, none is better ambushed to reach out to
the man, none has chosen so well, in times of domination, to take strong positions when the
decline reached. Not move without tripping over it.

Known since ancient man as he looks healthy, in the fullness its vital force is, by instinct,
irreligious. When life is good, I care little about the call eternal existence. Only believe
in God and fears at the hour of supreme cowardice, when death opens the bottomless darkness of nothing,
and he, in his pride as rational animal, revolts against the complete suppression of their being.
Want your soul is immortal, and accepts religious fantasies of heaven and hell. The Church, fearing
the irreligion of the health question, as you say, all walks of life, that man is not accustomed
to exist without it, calling only at the time of death. The dead will produce much money, are
their best estate, but also wants to reign over the living. Nothing escapes his despotism and
espionage. Interferes in all things human, from large the insignificant part in public life
and in the intima, which is to baptize world, accompanying the child to school monopolizes love,
declaring shameful and abominable when not subjected to his blessing, and divided the land into
two categories: the sacred for who died in her womb, and outdoor manure pit for the heretic.
Involved in the suit, stating what is honest and Christian demeanor and what the trappings scandalous
da rules secret for expansions in the marriage bed, and even gets into the kitchen, creating
a culinary art of Catholicism, which regulates what to eat, what not to mix, and anathematized
certain foods, which, being good the rest of the year, are the most horrendous of the sacrilege
on certain days. Accompanies man from birth and does not leave even after depositing it in the
grave. I kept clinging to the soul and makes pilgrimages through space, passing on arrival
destination, ascending road to heaven, under to the sacrifices required by their successors the benefit
of the Church. Largest and most comprehensive despotism not imagine any tyrant.

It was noon. The sexton was gone. They heard the creaking of chains and pulleys and a dull thunder
shook the whole tower. Vibrated metal and stone, and even seemed to be moved the ether of space.
Bell had just called Gorda, deafening that stood to it. Moments later, at the border fortress
echoed the martial sound of trumpets and drums.

- Come on - said Gabriel -. Mariano was advised us that, to avoid surprise.

He added, smiling wryly

- Always the same.

Parasites are the most shine and put most noise. What they can not
in profit as they provide a roar.

Came the feast of Corpus without the slightest incident disturbed
the peaceful life of the cathedral.

From time to time spoken in the upper cloister of the health of His Eminence. Its serious
trouble in the council forced him to bed. So he had an attack had feared for his life.

It said the heart thing Tato, who was well acquainted with the affairs
of the palace -.

Visit time as a Doña Magdalena, and curses the canons seeing Don Sebastian as below par.

The Wooden Staff, sitting or table with the family, spoke of the decline of the party Corpus,
so famous in the Toledo of old. His eagerness made him forget regret the bitter silence that
was imposed in the presence of his daughter.

- You will not know our Corpus - Gabriel told -. Which still reach us, only are the famous
tapestries that are placed outside the cathedral.

The giants and not line up at the door of Forgiveness, and the procession
is anything.

The choirmaster also complained.

- What about the Mass, Mr Stephen? What a solemn Mass for feast! Four instruments outside the home,
and Rossini misita of the lightest, in order not to spend much. For this it would be better just
playing the organ.

On the eve of the feast, the music of the Infantry Academy played in the evening before the Cathedral,
according to ancient custom. All Toledo came to the serenade, which was an event in the monotonous
life of the city. Of Madrid province and strangers came to the run bulls the next day.

Ringer Mariano invited friends to hear the serenade of the Greco-Roman
gallery facade.

At the time the lights went out in the Claverias and Don Antolin closed the front door, Gabriel
and his friends cautiously glided into the room Ringer. Sagrario was also, at the behest of
his uncle, who had almost tear it from the machine. Had some leisure time to enjoy, the convenient
peek into the world of late to time, it was killing with that life
of overwhelming work ethic.

They all sat in the gallery.

The shoemaker had taken his wife, always with a little boy loose grip on the udder. El Tato
spoke enthusiastically of darkening and the verger the race the next
day, and Mariano stood next to his beloved comrade, while his wife,
a female as brave as him, talked with Sagrario.

The men complained that Mr. Martin was not present. Had to walk down between the crowd that filled
the plaza, thinking no doubt that terror had to rise before dawn to say Mass at the nuns.

The town hall was decorated with garlands of lights, which reverberated
over the facade of the cathedral, giving the stone a reddish glow
of fire.

Between seedlings by groups of girls walking with flowers and white blouses, as if were the first appearance
of the summer. The cadets were on hand grip Saber, moving her slender
waist and the Turkish wide trousers.

The Archbishop's Palace was closed. Above the red glow of the square covering a large area view
space, a summer sky, dark, clear and deep, tinged with bright dust
stars.

When the music stopped and started off the lights, the people of the
cathedral felt certain laziness in leaving their seats.

They were right there. The night was warm, and they, accustomed to seclusion and silence of the
Claverias, felt the joy of freedom remaining on the balcony, with Toledo at his feet and the
vastness of space before your eyes.

Sagrario, who had left the cloister high since he returned to his father's house, watching
the sky with wonder.

- Stars! - Muttered, as if lies and dreams.

- Tonight we have increased - said Ringer -. The summer sky like a star field, increasing the harvest
in good weather.

Gabriel laughed at the simplicity of their peers. They all looked up to God, so proactive and
careful, he had made the moon to the men at night, and the stars so that the darkness was not absolute.

-
Then - asked Gabriel - why not the moon is forever, and that made it to enlighten?

There was a long silence. All reflected on the question of Gabriel. Ringer, to have more confidence
with the teacher dared to ask what they all thought. What was heaven?, what lay beyond that
blue ...?

The place had been deserted and in darkness.

There was more light than the dim glow of the stars scattered into space as gold dust. In the
vast vault seemed to fall religious calm, an overwhelming majesty entered the souls of those simple
people. Infinity began to get drunk with dizziness of his greatness.

- You - Gabriel said - you have closed your eyes to the immensity. You can not understand.
I have taught the world a source mean and crude, which imagined a few ragged and ignorant Jews
in a corner of Asia, and written in a book, has been accepted until today. This personal God,
like us in shape and passions, a craftsman of gigantic size that works six days and is all that
exists. The first day "created light" and the fourth the sun and stars. Whence came, then, if
it light had not created the sun? Is there a distinction between one and another ...? It seems
impossible that may have accepted such nonsense for centuries.

The listeners nodded their heads in assent. Palpable absurdity appeared to them as Gabriel always
talking.

If you want to enter heaven - Luna continued - you have to divest
of human concept distance.

Man measures everything by its size and dimensions are conceived by the scope their eyes.
This cathedral seems huge because under their ships are like ants;
and yet, the cathedral, seen from afar, is a small wart, compared
with piece of land we call Spain, is less than a grain of sand, and
on the surface Earth, is an atom ... nothing.

Our eyes and makes us think the heights are vertigo thirty or forty yards. At this point we believe
to be very high because we are near the roof of the cathedral, and all this distance is worth
so little to the infinite as the indecision of the ant on a pebble hesitates, not knowing how
to fall. Our view is short. We, we measure by the meter, we can conceive only short distances, we
have to make a great effort of imagination to encompass the infinite. Even so, we escapes, and we
talked about it many times as an expression of lack of respect. How to understand the immensity
of the world ...? Not believe, as our ancestors believed that the Earth is stationary and flat,
and that heaven is a glass dome where God knelt stars as nails gold and ride the sun and moon to illuminate.
You will know that the Earth is round and rotates in space.

- Yes, we know something about it - said ringer accent of doubt -. Taught us in school. But
do you really think you moving?

- Because your smallness of human beings can not feel the movement, because your microscopic
view of moles escapes the vast world gear, do not doubt it.

The Earth rotates. Not moved away from where you are, twenty-four hours have come full circle
the globe.

Without separating the feet from the ground run all four leagues
per hour, speed failure to achieve the fastest trains.

Do you asombráis? For even run more without knowing it. Our planet not only turns on itself, but at the
same time circulating around the Sun at a rate a hundred thousand
miles per hour. Every second we walk thirty thousand meters. Ever
invented men a cannonball so fast. You are going by the immensity
clinging to a missile Marching rapidly, and deceived by your smallness,
you believe still live in a Cathedral dead ... And these speeds are
not nothing compared to others! The Sun, around which turn, falls
and falls flat, the attraction being glued to their sides to Earth
and the other planets. Going by the immensity, crawling, running into
the unknown, not encounter with other bodies, always finding room
to fall at a speed which is calculated da dizziness, and this takes
thousands and millions of centuries, but it and the Earth, which follows
in his escape, passing twice on the same site.

Gabriel listened to
all open-mouthed amazement. His eyes seemed bright lost in vertigo.

-
There is to get crazy - Ringer murmured -. What is it, man, Gabriel?

-
Nothing, as nothing is also the land that seems so big and religions
have populated, Empires and revelations from God. Dreams of ant!,
Alone!
Some were dressed in tunics of white gauze with stripes alternately opaque and transparent,
the narrow sleeves of which left bare the delicate, round arms covered with bracelets from
the wrist to the elbow: others, bare to the waist, wore a skirt of pale lilac rayed with darker
stripes, and covered with a fillet of little rose beads which showed in the diaper the cartouche
of the Pharaoh traced on the stuff; others wore red skirts with black-pearl fillets; others
again, draped in a tissue as light as woven air, as transparent as glass, wound the folds around
them, and managed to show off coquettishly the shape of their lovely bosoms; others were enclosed
in a sheath covered with blue, green, or red scales which moulded their forms accurately; and
others again had their shoulders covered with a sort of pleated cape, and their fringed skirts
were fastened below the breast with a scarf with long, floating ends.

The head-dresses were no less varied. Sometimes the plaited hair was spun out into curls; sometimes
it was divided into three parts, one of which fell down the back and the other two on either
side of the cheeks. Huge periwigs, closely curled, with numberless cords maintained transversely
by golden threads, rows of enamels, or pearls, were put on like helmets over young and lovely
faces, which sought of art an aid which their beauty did not need.

All these women held in their hands a flower of the blue or white lotus, and breathed amorously,
with a fluttering of their nostrils, the penetrating odour which the broad calyx exhaled. A
stalk of the same flower, springing from the back of their necks, bowed over their heads and
showed its bud between their eyebrows darkened with antimony.

In front of them black or white slaves, with no other garment than a waist girdle, held out
to them necklaces of flowers made of crocuses, the blooms of which, white outside, are yellow
inside, purple safflowers, golden-yellow chrysanthemums, red-berried nightshade, myosotis whose
flowers seemed made of blue enamel of the statues of Isis, and nepenthes whose intoxicating
odour makes one forget everything, even the far-distant home.

These slaves were followed by others, who on the upturned palm of their right hands bore cups
of silver or bronze full of wine, and in the left held napkins with which the guests wiped
their lips.

The wines were drawn from amphoræ of clay, glass, or metal held in elegant woven baskets placed
on four-footed pedestals made of a light, supple wood interlaced in ingenious fashion. The
baskets contained seven sorts of wines: date wine, palm wine, and wine of the grape, white,
red, and green wines, new wine, Phoenician and Greek wines, and white Mareotis wine with a
bouquet of violets.

The Pharaoh also took a cup from the hands of his cup-bearer standing near his throne, and
put to his royal lips the strengthening drink.

Then sounded the harps, the lyres, the double flutes, the lutes, accompanying a song of triumph
which choristers, ranged opposite the throne, one knee on the ground, accentuated as they beat
time with the palms of their hands.

The repast began. The dishes, brought by Ethiopians from the vast kitchens of the palace, where
a thousand slaves were busy preparing the feast in a fiery atmosphere, were placed on tables
close by the guests. The dishes, of scented wood admirably carved, of bronze, of earthenware
or porcelain enamelled in brilliant colours, held large pieces of beef, antelope legs, trussed
geese, siluras from the Nile, dough drawn out into long tubes and rolled, cakes of sesamum
and honey, green watermelons with rosy meat, pomegranates full of rubies, grapes the colour
of amber or of amethyst. Wreaths of papyrus crowned these dishes with their green foliage.
The cups were also wreathed in flowers, and in the centre of the table, amid a vast heap of
golden-coloured bread stamped with designs and marked with hieroglyphs, rose a tall vase whence
emerged, spraying as it fell, a vast sheaf of persolutas, myrtles, pomegranates, convolvulus,
chrysanthemums, heliotropes, seriphiums, and periplocas, a mingling of colours and of scents.
Under the tables, around the supporting pillar, were arranged pots of lotus. Flowers, flowers
everywhere, even under the seats of the guests! The women wore them on their arms, round their
necks, on their heads in the shape of bracelets, necklaces, and crowns; the lamps burned amid
huge bouquets, the dishes disappeared under leaves, the wines sparkled amid violets and roses.
It was a most characteristic, gigantic debauch of flowers, a colossal orgy of scents, unknown
to other nations.

Slaves constantly brought from the gardens, which they plundered without diminishing their
wealth, armfuls of rose laurel, of pomegranate, of lotus, to renew the flowers which had faded,
while servants cast grains of nard and cinnamon upon the red-hot coals of the censers.

When the dishes and the boxes carved in the shape of birds, fishes, and chimeras, which held
the sauces and condiments, had been cleared away, as well as the ivory, bronze, or wooden spatulæ,
and the bronze and flint knives, the guests washed their hands, and cups of wine and fermented
drinks kept on passing around.

The cup-bearer drew with a long-handled ladle the dark wine and the transparent wine from two
great, golden vases adorned with figures of horses and rams, which were held in equilibrium
in front of the Pharaoh by means of tripods on which they were set.

Female musicians appeared--for the orchestra of male musicians had withdrawn. A wide gauze
tunic covered their slender, youthful bodies, veiling them no more than the pure water of a
pool conceals the form of the bather who plunges into it. Papyrus wreaths bound their thick
hair and fell to the ground in long tendrils; lotus flowers bloomed on top of their heads;
great golden rings sparkled in their ears, necklaces of enamel and pearl encircled their necks,
and bracelets clanked and rattled on their wrists. One played on the harp, another on the lute,
a third on the double flute, crossing her arms and using the right for the left flute and the
left for the right flute; a fourth placed horizontally against her breast a five-stringed lyre;
a fifth struck the onager-skin of a square drum; and a little girl seven or eight years of
age, with flowers in her hair and a belt drawn tight around her, beat time by clapping her hands.

The dancers came in. They were slight, slender, and as lithe as serpents; their great eyes
shone between the black lines of their lids, their pearly teeth between the red bars of their
lips. Long curls floated down on their cheeks. Some wore full tunics striped white and blue,
which floated around them like a mist; others wore mere pleated short skirts falling over the
hips to the knees, which allowed their beautiful, slender legs and round muscular thighs to
be easily seen. They first assumed poses of languid voluptuousness and indolent grace, then,
waving branches of bloom and clinking castanets, shaped like the head of Hathor, striking tambourines
with their little closed hands, or making the tanned skin of drums resound under their thumbs,
they gave themselves up to swifter steps and to bolder postures; they pirouetted, they whirled
with ever-increasing ardour. But the Pharaoh, thoughtful and dreamy, did not condescend to
bestow a glance of satisfaction upon them; his fixed gaze did not even fall upon them.

They withdrew, blushing and confused, pressing their palpitating breasts with their hands.

Dwarfs with twisted feet, with swollen and deformed bodies, whose grimaces were fortunate enough
at times to bring a smile to the majestic, stony face of the Pharaoh, were no more successful;
their contortions did not bring a single smile to his lips, the corners of which remained obstinately
fixed.

To the sound of strange music produced by triangular harps, sistra, castanets, cymbals, and
bugles, Egyptian clowns wearing high, white mitres of ridiculous shape advanced, closing two
fingers of their hand and stretching out the other three, repeating their grotesque gestures
with automatic accuracy, and singing extravagant songs full of dissonances. His Majesty never
changed countenance.

Women wearing a small helmet from which depended three long cords ending in a tassel, their
wrists and ankles bound with black leather bands, and wearing close fitting drawers suspended
by a single brace passed over their shoulders, performed tricks of strength and contortions
each more surprising than another; posturing, throwing themselves back, bending their supple
bodies like willow branches, and touching the ground with their necks without displacing their
heels, supporting in that impossible attitude the weight of their companions; others juggled
with a ball, two balls, three balls, before, behind, their arms crossed, astride of or standing
upon the loins of one of the women of the company. One, indeed, the cleverest, put on blinkers
like Tmei, the goddess of justice, and caught the globes in her hands without letting a single
one fall. The Pharaoh was not moved by these marvels.

He cared no more either for the prowess of two combatants who, wearing a cestus on the left
arm, fought with sticks. Men throwing at a block of wood knives which struck with miraculous
accuracy the spot indicated did not interest him either. He even refused the draught-board
which the lovely Twea, whom he looked upon usually with favour, presented to him as she offered
herself as an adversary. In vain Amense, Taïa, Hont-Reché ventured upon timid caresses. He
rose and withdrew to his apartments without having uttered a word.

Motionless on the threshold stood the servant who, during the triumphal procession, had noticed
the imperceptible gesture of His Majesty.

He said: "O King, loved of the gods! I left the procession, crossed the Nile on a light papyrus-bark
and followed the vessel of the woman on whom your hawk glance deigned to fall. She is Tahoser,
the daughter of the priest Petamounoph."

The Pharaoh smiled and said: "It is well. I give thee a chariot and its horses, a pectoral
ornament of beads of lapis-lazuli and cornelian, with a golden circle weighing as much as the
green basalt weight."

Meanwhile the sorrowing women pulled the flowers from their hair, tore their gauze robes, and
sobbed, stretched out upon the polished stone floors which reflected, mirror-like, the image
of their beautiful bodies, saying, "One of these accursed barbaric captives must have stolen
our master's heart."

V

On the left bank of the Nile stood the villa of Poëri, the young man who had filled Tahoser
with such emotion when, proceeding to view the triumphal return of the Pharaoh, she had passed
in her ox-drawn car under the balcony whereon leaned carelessly the handsome dreamer.

It was a vast estate, having something of the farm and something of the house of pleasaunce,
which stretched between the banks of the river and the foothills of the Libyan chain, over
an immense extent of ground, covered during the inundation by the reddish waters laden with
fertilising mud, and which during the rest of the year was irrigated by skilfully planned canals.

A wall, built of limestone drawn from the neighbouring mountains, enclosed the garden, the
store-houses, the cellars, and the dwelling. The walls sloped slightly inwards and were surmounted
by an acroter with metal spikes, capable of stopping whosoever might attempt to climb over.
Three doors, the leaves of which were hung on massive pillars, each adorned with a giant lotus-flower
planted on top of the capital, were cut in the wall on three of the sides. In place of the
fourth door rose a building which looked out into the garden from one of its façades, and on
the road from the other.

The building in no respect resembled the houses in Thebes. The architect had not sought to
reproduce either the heavy foundations, the great monumental lines, or the rich materials of
city buildings, but had striven to attain elegant lightness, refreshing simplicity, and pastoral
gracefulness in harmony with the verdure and the peacefulness of the country.

The lower courses of the building, which the Nile reached in times of high flood, were of sandstone,
and the rest of the building of sycamore wood. Tall, fluted columns, extremely slender and
resembling the staffs of the standards before the king's palace, sprang from the ground and
rose unbroken to the palm-leaved cornice, where swelled out, under a simple cube, their lotus-flowered
capitals.

The single story built above the ground-floor did not rise as high as the mouldings which bordered
the terraced roof, and thus left an empty space between the ceiling and the flat roof of the
villa. Short, small pillars, with flowery capitals, divided into groups of four by the tall
columns, formed an open gallery around this aerial apartment open to every wind.

Windows broader at the base than at the top of the opening, in accordance with the Egyptian
style, and closed with double sashes, lighted the first story. The ground-floor was lighted
by narrower windows placed closer to each other.

Above the door, which was adorned with deep mouldings, was a cross planted in a heart and framed
in a parallelogram cut in the lower part to allow the sign of favourable omen to pass; the
meaning being, as every one knows, "A good house."

The whole building was painted in soft, pleasant colours; the lotus of the capitals showed
alternately red and blue in the green capsules; the gilded palm-leaves of the cornices stood
out upon a blue background; the white walls of the façades set off the painted framework of
the windows, and lines of red and green outlined panels and imitated the joints of the stone.

Outside the enclosing wall, which was built flush with the dwelling, stood a row of trees cut
to a point, which formed a screen against the dusty southern wind, always laden with the desert
heat.

In front of the building grew a vast vineyard. Stone shafts with lotus capitals placed at symmetrical
distances outlined, through the vineyard, walks cutting each other at right angles. Boughs
of vine leaves joined one plant to another and formed a succession of leafy arches under which
one could walk erect. The ground, carefully raked and heaped up at the foot of each plant,
contrasted by its brown colour with the bright green of the leaves, amid which played the sunbeams
and the breeze.

On either side of the building two oblong pools bore upon their transparent surface aquatic
birds and flowers. At the corners of these pools four great palm-trees spread out fanwise their
green wreath of leaves at the top of their scaly trunks.

Compartments, regularly traced by narrow paths, divided the garden around the vineyard, marking
the place of each different crop. Along a sort of belt walk which ran entirely around the enclosure
dôm palms alternated with sycamores, squares of ground were planted with fig, peach, almond,
olive, pomegranate and other fruit trees; others, again, were planted with ornamental trees
only: the tamarisk, the cassia, the acacia, the myrtle, the mimosa, and some still rarer gum-trees
found beyond the cataracts of the Nile, under the Tropic of Cancer, in the oases of the Libyan
Desert, and upon the shores of the Erythrean Gulf; for the Egyptians are very fond of cultivating
shrubs and flowers, and they exact new species as a tribute from the peoples they have conquered.

Flowers of all kinds, and many varieties of watermelons, lupines, and onions adorned the beds.
Two other pools of greater size, fed by the covered canal leading from the Nile, each bore
a small boat to enable the master of the estate to enjoy the pleasure of fishing. Fishes of
divers forms and brilliant colours played in the limpid waters among the stalks and the broad
leaves of the lotus. Banks of luxuriant vegetation surrounded these pools and were reflected
in their green mirror.

Near each pool rose a kiosk formed of slender columns bearing a light roof and surrounded by
an open balcony whence one could enjoy the sight of the waters and breathe the coolness of
the morning and the evening while reclining on a rustic seat of wood and reeds.

The garden, lighted by the rising sun, had a bright, happy, restful look. The green of the
trees was so brilliant, the colours of the flowers so splendid, air and light filled so joyously
the vast enclosure with breeze and sunbeams, the contrast of the rich greenness with the bare
whiteness of the chalky sterility of the Libyan chain, the crest of which was seen above the
walls cutting into the blue sky, was so marked that one felt the wish to stop and set up one's
tent there. It looked like a nest purposely built for a longed-for happiness.

Along the walks travelled servants bearing on their shoulders a yoke of bent wood, from the
ends of which hung by ropes two clay jars filled at the reservoirs, the contents of which they
poured into small basins dug at the foot of each plant. Others, handling a jar suspended from
a pole working on a post, filled with water a wooden gutter which carried it to the parts of
the garden that needed irrigating. Gardeners were clipping the trees to a point or into an
elliptical shape. With the help of a hoe formed of two pieces of hard wood bound by a cord
and thus making a hook, other workmen were preparing the ground for planting.

It was a delightful sight to see these men with their black, woolly hair, their bodies the
colour of brick, dressed only in a pair of white drawers, going and coming amid the greenery
with orderly activity, singing a rustic song to which their steps kept time. The birds perched
on the trees seemed to know them, and scarcely to fly off when, as they passed, they rubbed
against the branches.

The door of the building opened, and Poëri appeared on the threshold. Though he was dressed
in the Egyptian fashion, his features were not in accordance with the national type, and it
took no long observation to see that he did not belong to the native race of the valley of
the Nile. He was assuredly not a Rot'en'no. His thin aquiline nose, his flat cheeks, his serious-looking,
closed lips, the perfect oval of his face, were essentially different from the African nose,
the projecting cheek-bones, the thick lips, and broad face characteristic of the Egyptians.
Nor was his complexion the same; the copper tint was replaced by an olive pallor, which the
rich, pure blood flushed slightly; his eyes, instead of showing black between their lines of
antimony, were of a dark blue like the sky of night; his hair, silkier and softer, curled in
less crisp undulations, and his shoulders did not exhibit that rigid, transversal line which
is the characteristic sign of the race as represented on the statues of the temples and the
frescoes of the tombs.

All these characteristics went to form a remarkable beauty, which Petamounoph's daughter had
been unable to resist. Since the day when Poëri had by chance appeared to her, leaning upon
the gallery of the building--which was his favourite place when he was not busy with the farm
work--she had returned many times under pretext of driving, and had made her chariot pass under
the balcony of the villa; but although she had put on her handsomest tunics, fastened around
her neck her richest necklaces and encircled her wrists with her most wondrously chased bracelets,
wreathed her hair with the freshest lotus-flowers, drawn to the temples the black line of her
eyes, and brightened her cheeks with rouge, Poëri had never seemed to pay the smallest attention
to her.

And yet Tahoser was rarely beautiful, and the love which the pensive tenant of the villa disdained,
the Pharaoh would willingly have purchased at a great price. In exchange for the priest's daughter
he would have given Twea, Taïa, Amense, Hont-Reché, his Asiatic captives, his vases of gold
and silver, his necklaces of gems, his war chariots, his invincible army, his sceptre,--all,
in a word, even his tomb, on which since the beginning of his reign had been working in the
darkness thousands upon thousands of workmen.

Love is not the same in the hot regions swept by a fiery wind as on the icy shores where calm
descends from heaven with the cold; it is not blood but fire that flows in the veins. So Tahoser
languished and fainted, though she breathed perfumes, surrounded herself with flowers, and
drank draughts that bring forgetfulness. Music wearied her or overexcited her feelings; she
had ceased to take any pleasure in the dances of her companions; at night, sleep fled from
her eyelids, and breathless, stifling, her breast heaving with sighs, she would leave her sumptuous
couch and stretch herself out upon the broad slabs of the pavement, pressing her bosom against
the hard granite as if she wished to breathe in its coolness.

On the night which followed the triumphal entry of the Pharaoh, Tahoser felt so unhappy and
life seemed so empty that she determined not to die without having made at least one last effort.

She wrapped herself up in a piece of common stuff, kept on but a single bracelet of odoriferous
wood, twisted a piece of striped gauze around her head, and with the first light of the dawn,
without being heard by Nofré, who was dreaming of the handsome Ahmosis, she left her room,
crossed the garden, drew the bolts of the water gate, proceeded to the quay, waked a waterman
asleep in his papyrus boat, and had herself transported to the other bank of the stream.

Staggering and pressing her little hand to her heart to still its beating, she drew near Poëri's
dwelling.

It was now broad daylight, and the gates were opening to give passage to the ox teams going
to work, and to the flocks going forth to pasture.

Tahoser knelt on the threshold and placed her hand above her head with a supplicating gesture,
more beautiful, perhaps, even in this humble attitude and in her mean dress. Her bosom rose
and fell and tears streamed down her pale cheeks.

Poëri saw her and took her for what she was, indeed, a most unhappy woman.

"Enter," said he; "enter without fear. This house is hospitable."

VI

Tahoser, encouraged by the friendly words of Poëri, abandoned her supplicating attitude and
rose. A rich glow flushed her cheek but now so pale; shame came back to her with hope; she
blushed at the strange action to which love had driven her; she hesitated to pass the threshold
which she had crossed so often in her dreams. Her maidenly scruples, stifled for a time by
passion, resumed their power in the presence of reality.

The young man, thinking that timidity, the companion of misfortune, alone prevented Tahoser
from entering the house, said to her in a soft, musical voice marked by a foreign accent,--

"Enter, maiden, and do not tremble so. My home is large enough to shelter you. If you are weary,
rest; if you are thirsty, my servants will bring you pure water cooled in porous clay-jars;
if you are hungry, they will set before you wheaten bread, dates, and dried figs."

Petamounoph's daughter, encouraged by these hospitable words, entered the house, which justified
the hieroglyph of welcome inscribed upon the gate.

Poëri took her to a room on the ground-floor, the walls of which were painted with green vertical
bands ending in lotus flowers, making the apartment pleasant to the eye. A fine mat of reeds
woven in symmetrical designs covered the floor. At each corner of the room great sheaves of
flowers filled tall vases, held in place by pedestals, and scattered their perfume through
the cool shade of the hall. At the back a low sofa, the wood-work of which was ornamented with
foliage and chimerical animals, tempted with its broad bed the fatigued or idle guest. Two
chairs, the seats made of Nile reeds, with sloping back, strengthened by stays, a wooden foot-stool
cut in the shape of a shell and resting upon three legs, an oblong table, also three-legged,
bordered with inlaid work and ornamented in the centre with uræus snakes, wreaths, and agricultural
symbols, and on which was placed a vase of rose and blue lotus,--completed the furniture of
the room, which was pastoral in its simplicity and gracefulness.

Poëri sat down on the sofa. Tahoser, bending one leg under her thigh and raising one knee,
knelt before the young man who fixed upon her a glance full of kindly questioning. She was
most lovely in that attitude. The gauze veil in which she was enveloped exhibited, as it fell
back, the rich mass of her hair bound with a narrow white ribbon, and revealed her gentle,
sweet, sad face. Her sleeveless tunic showed her lovely arms bare to the shoulder and left
them free.

"I am called Poëri," said the young man; "I am steward of the royal estates, and have the right
to wear the gilded ram's-horns on my state head-dress."

"And I am called Hora," replied Tahoser, who had arranged her little story beforehand. "My
parents are dead, their goods were sold by their creditors, leaving me just enough to pay for
their burial; so I have been left alone and without means. But since you are kind enough to
receive me, I shall repay you for your hospitality. I have been taught the work of women, although
my condition did not oblige me to perform it. I can spin and weave linen with thread of various
colours; I can imitate flowers and embroider ornaments on stuffs; I can even, when you are
tired by your work and overcome by the heat of the day, delight you with song, harp, or lute."

"Hora, you are welcome to my dwelling," said the young man. "You will find here, without taxing
your strength,--for you seem to me to be delicate,--occupation suitable for a maiden who has
known better days; among my maids are gentle and good girls who will be pleasant companions
for you, and who will show you how we live in this pastoral home. So the days will pass, and
perhaps brighter ones will dawn for you. If not, you can quietly grow old in my home in the
midst of abundance and peace. The guest whom the gods send is sacred."

Having said these words, Poëri arose, as if to avoid the thanks of the supposed Hora, who had
prostrated herself at his feet and was kissing them, as do wretches who have just been granted
a favour; but the lover in her had taken the place of the suppliant, and her ripe, rosy lips
found it hard to leave those beautiful, clean, white feet that resembled the jasper feet of
the gods.

Before going out to superintend the work of the farm, Poëri turned around on the threshold
of the room and said,--

"Hora, remain here until I have appointed a room for you. I shall send you some food by one
of my servants."

And he walked away quietly, the whip which marked his rank hanging from his wrist. The workmen
saluted him, placing one hand on their head and the other to the ground, but by the cordiality
of their salute it was easily seen that he was a kind master. Sometimes he stopped to give
an order or a piece of advice, for he was greatly skilled in matters of agriculture and gardening.
Then he resumed his walk, looking to the right and left and carefully inspecting everything.
Tahoser, who had humbly accompanied him to the door, and had crouched on the threshold, her
elbow on her knee and her chin on the palm of her hand, followed him with her glance until
he disappeared under the leafy arches. She kept on looking long after he had passed out by
the gate into the fields.

A servant, in accordance with an order which Poëri had given when he went out, brought on a
tray a goose-leg, onions baked in the ashes, wheaten bread and figs, and a jar of water closed
with myrtle flowers.

"The master sends you this. Eat, maiden, and regain your strength."

Tahoser was not very hungry, but her part required that she should exhibit some appetite; the
poor must necessarily devour the food which pity throws them. So she ate, and drank a long
draught of the cool water. The servant having gone, she resumed her contemplative attitude.
Innumerable contradictory thoughts filled her mind: sometimes with maidenly shame she repented
the step she had taken; at others, carried away by her passion, she exulted in her own audacity.
Then she said to herself: "Here I am, it is true, under Poëri's roof; I shall see him freely
every day; I shall silently drink in his beauty, which is more that of a god than of a man;
I shall hear his lovely voice, which is like the music of the soul. But will he, who never
paid any attention to me when I passed by his home dressed in my most brilliant garments, adorned
with my richest gems, perfumed with scents and flowers, mounted on my painted and gilded car
surmounted by a sunshade, and surrounded like a queen with a retinue of servants,--will he
pay more attention to the poor suppliant maiden whom he has received through pity and who is
dressed in mean stuff? Will my wretchedness accomplish what my wealth could not do? It may
be, after all, that I am ugly, and that Nofré flatters me when she maintains that from the
unknown sources of the Nile to the place where it casts itself into the sea there is no lovelier
maid than her mistress. Yet no,--I am beautiful; the blazing eyes of men have told me so a
thousand times, and especially have the annoyed airs and the disdainful pouts of the women
who passed by me confirmed it. Will Poëri, who has inspired me with such mad passion, never
love me? He would have received just as kindly an old, wrinkled woman with withered breasts,
clothed in hideous rags, and with feet grimy with dust. Any one but he would at once have recognised,
under the disguise of Hora, Tahoser the daughter of the high-priest Petamounoph; but he never
cast his eyes upon me any more than does the basalt statue of a god upon the devotees who offer
up to it quarters of antelope and baskets of lotus."

These thoughts cast down the courage of Tahoser. Then she regained confidence, and said to
herself that her beauty, her youth, her love would surely at last move that insensible heart.
She would be so sweet, so attentive, so devoted, she would use so much art and coquetry in
dressing herself, that certainly Poëri would not be able to resist. Then she promised herself
to reveal to him that the humble servant-maid was a girl of high rank, possessing slaves, estates,
and palaces, and she foresaw, in her imagination, a life of splendid and radiant happiness
following upon a period of obscure felicity.

"First and foremost, let me make myself beautiful," she said, as she rose and walked towards
one of the pools.

On reaching it, she knelt upon the stone margin, washed her face, her neck, and her shoulders.
The disturbed water showed her in its mirror, broken by innumerable ripples, her vague, trembling
image which smiled up to her as through green gauze; and the little fishes, seeing her shadow
and thinking that crumbs of bread were about to be thrown to them, drew near the edge in shoals.
She gathered two or three lotus flowers which bloomed on the surface of the pool, twisted their
stems around the band that held in her hair, and made thus a head-dress which all the skill
of Nofré could never have equalled, even had she emptied her mistress's jewel-caskets.

When she had finished and rose refreshed and radiant, a tame ibis, which had gravely watched
her, drew itself up on its two long legs, stretched out its long neck, and flapped its wings
two or three times as if to applaud her.

Having finished her toilet, Tahoser resumed her place at the door of the house and waited for
Poëri. The heavens were of a deep blue; the light shimmered in visible waves through the transparent
air; intoxicating perfumes rose from the flowers and the plants; the birds hopped amid the
branches, pecking at the berries; the fluttering butterflies chased one another. This charming
spectacle was rendered yet more bright by human activity, which enlivened it by the communication
of a soul. The gardeners came and went, the servants returned laden with panniers of grass
or vegetables; others, standing at the foot of the fig trees, caught in baskets the fruits
thrown to them by monkeys trained to pluck them and perched on the highest branches.

Tahoser contemplated with delight this beautiful landscape, the peacefulness of which was filling
her soul, and she said to herself, "How sweet it would be to be beloved here, amid the light,
the scents, and the flowers."

Poëri returned. He had finished his tour of inspection, and withdrew to his room to spend the
burning hours of the day. Tahoser followed him timidly, and stood near the door, ready to leave
at the slightest gesture, but Poëri signed to her to remain.

She came forward timidly and knelt upon the mat.

"You tell me, Hora, that you can play the lute. Take that instrument hanging upon the wall,
strike its cords and sing me some old air, very sweet, very tender, and very slow. The sleep
which comes to one cradled by music is full of lovely dreams."

The priest's daughter took down the mandore, drew near the couch on which Poëri was stretched,
leaned the head of the lute against the wooden bed-head hollowed out in the shape of a half-moon,
stretched her arm to the end of the handle of the instrument, the body of which was pressed
against her beating heart, let her hand flutter along the strings, and struck a few chords.
Then she sang in a true, though somewhat trembling voice, an old Egyptian air, the vague sigh
breathed by the ancestors and transmitted from generation to generation, and in which recurred
constantly one and the same phrase of a sweet and penetrating monotony.

"In very truth," said Poëri, turning his dark blue eyes upon the maid, "you know rhythm as
does a professional musician, and you might practise your art in the palaces of kings. But
you give to your song a new expression; the air you are singing, one would think you are inventing
it, and you impart to it a magical charm. Your voice is no longer that of mourning; another
woman seems to shine through you as the light shines from behind a veil. Who are you?"

"I am Hora," replied Tahoser. "Have I not already told you my story? Only, I have washed from
my face the dust of the road, I have smoothed out the folds in my crushed gown and put a flower
in my hair. If I am poor, that is no reason why I should be ugly, and the gods sometimes refuse
beauty to the rich. But does it please you that I should go on?"

"Yes. Repeat that air; it fascinates, benumbs me, it takes away my memory like a cup of nepenthe.
Repeat it until sleep and forgetfulness fall upon my eyelids."

Poëri's eyes, fixed at first upon Tahoser, soon were half-closed, and then completely so. The
maiden continued to strike the strings of the mandore, and sang more and more softly the refrain
of her song. Poëri slept. She stopped and fanned him with a palm-leaf fan thrown on the table.

Poëri was handsome, and sleep imparted to his pure features an indescribable expression of
languor and tenderness. His long eyelashes falling upon his cheeks seemed to conceal from him
a celestial vision, and his beautiful, red, half-open lips trembled as if they were speaking
mute words to an invisible being. After a long contemplation, emboldened by silence and solitude,
Tahoser, forgetting herself, bent over the sleeper's brow, kept back her breath, pressed her
heart with her hand, and placed a timid, furtive, winged kiss upon it. Then she drew back ashamed
and blushing. The sleeper had faintly felt in his dream Tahoser's lips; he uttered a sigh and
said in Hebrew, "Oh, Ra'hel, beloved Ra'hel!"

Fortunately these words of an unknown tongue conveyed no meaning to Tahoser, and she again
took up the palm-leaf fan, hoping yet fearing that Poëri would awake.

VII

When day dawned, Nofré, who slept on a cot at her mistress's feet, was surprised at not hearing
Tahoser call her as usual by clapping her hands. She rose on her elbow and saw that the bed
was empty; yet the first beams of the sun, striking the frieze of the portico, were only now
beginning to cast on the wall the shadow of the capitals and of the upper part of the shafts
of the pillars. Usually Tahoser was not an early riser, and she rarely rose without the assistance
of her women. Neither did she ever go out until after her hair had been dressed, and perfumed
water had been poured over her lovely body, while she knelt, her hands crossed upon her bosom.

Nofré, feeling uneasy, put on a transparent gown, slipped her feet into sandals of palm fibre,
and set out in search of her mistress. She looked for her first under the portico of the two
courts, thinking that, unable to sleep, Tahoser had perhaps gone to enjoy the coolness of dawn
in the inner cloisters; but she was not there.

"Let me visit the garden," said Nofré to herself; "perhaps she took a fancy to see the night
dew sparkle on the leaves of the plants and to watch for once the awakening of the flowers."

Although she traversed the garden in every direction, she found it absolutely untenanted. Nofré
looked along every walk, under every arbour, under every arch, into every grove, but unsuccessfully.
She entered the kiosk at the end of the arbour, but she did not find Tahoser; she hastened
to the pond, in which her mistress might have taken a fancy to bathe, as she sometimes did
with her companions, upon the granite steps which led from the edge of the basin to the bottom
of fine sand. The broad nymphoea-leaves floated on the surface, and did not appear to have
been disturbed; the ducks, plunging their blue necks into the calm water, alone rippled it,
and they saluted Nofré with joyous cries.

The faithful maid began to feel seriously alarmed; she roused the whole household. The slaves
and the maids emerged from their cells, and informed by Nofré of the strange disappearance
of Tahoser, proceeded to make most minute search. They ascended the terraces, rummaged every
room, every corner, every place where she might possibly be. Nofré, in her agitation, even
opened the boxes containing the dresses and the caskets holding the jewels, as if they could
possibly have held her mistress. Unquestionably Tahoser was not within the dwelling.

An old and consummately prudent servant bethought himself of examining the sand of the walks
in search of the footprints of his young mistress. The heavy bolts of the gate leading into
the city were in place, and this proved that Tahoser had not gone out that way. It is true
that Nofré had carelessly traversed every path, marking them with her sandals, but by bending
close to the ground, old Souhem speedily noticed among Nofré's footprints a slight imprint
made by a narrow, dainty sole belonging to a much smaller foot than the maid's. He followed
this track, which led him, passing under the arbour, from the pylon in the court to the water
gate. The bolts, as he pointed out to Nofré, had been drawn, and the two leaves of the door
were held merely by their weight; therefore Petamounoph's daughter had gone out that way. Farther
on the track was lost; the brick quay had preserved no trace; the boatman who had carried Tahoser
across had not returned to his station; the others were asleep, and when questioned replied
that they had seen nothing. One, however, did report that a woman, poorly dressed and belonging
apparently to the lowest class, had been ferried over early to the other side of the river
to the Memnonia quarter, no doubt to carry out some funeral rite. This description, which in
no way tallied with the elegant Tahoser, completely upset the suppositions of Nofré and Souhem.

They returned to the house sad and disappointed. The men and women servants sat down on the
ground in desolate attitudes, letting one of their hands hang down, its palm turned up, and
placing the other on their head, all of them calling together in plaintive chorus, "Woe! woe!
woe! Our mistress is gone!"

"By Oms, the dog of the lower regions, I shall find her," said old Souhem, "even if I have
to walk living to the very confines of the Western Region to which travel the dead. She was
a kind mistress; she gave us food in abundance, did not exact excessive labour, and caused
us to be beaten only when we deserved it and in moderation. Her foot was not heavy on our bowed
necks, and in her home a slave might believe himself free."

"Woe! woe! woe!" repeated the men and women as they cast dust upon their heads.

"Alas! dear mistress, who knows where you are now?" said her faithful maid, whose tears were
flowing. "Perchance some enchanter compelled you to leave your palace through a spell in order
to work his odious will on you. He will lacerate your fair body, will draw your heart out through
a cut like that made by the dissectors, will throw your remains to the ferocious crocodiles,
and on the day of reunion your mutilated soul will find shapeless remains only. You will not
go to join, at the end of the passages of which the undertaker keeps the plan, the painted
and gilded mummy of your father, the high-priest Petamounoph, in the funeral chamber which
has been cut out for you."

"Calm yourself, Nofré," said old Souhem; "let us not despair too soon. It may be that Tahoser
will soon return. She has no doubt yielded to some fancy which we cannot guess, and presently
we shall see her come back, gay and smiling, holding aquatic flowers in her hands."

Wiping her eyes with the corner of her dress, the maid nodded assent. Souhem crouched down,
bending his knees like those of the dog-faced figures which are roughly carved out of a square
block of basalt, and pressing his temples between his dry hands, seemed to reflect deeply.
His face of a reddish brown, his sunken eyes, his prominent jaws, the deeply wrinkled cheeks,
his straight hair framing in his face like bristles, made him altogether like the monkey-faced
gods. He was certainly not a god, but he looked very much like a monkey.

The result of his meditations, anxiously awaited by Nofré, was thus expressed: "The daughter
of Petamounoph is in love."

"Who told you?" cried Nofré, who thought that she was the only one who could read her mistress's
heart.

"No one; but Tahoser is very beautiful; she has already beheld sixteen times the rise and fall
of the Nile. Sixteen is the number symbolical of voluptuousness; and for some time past she
has been calling at unaccustomed hours her players on the harp, the lute, and the flute, like
one who seeks to calm the agitation of her heart by music."

"You speak sensibly, and wisdom dwells in your old bald head. But how have you learned to know
women,--you who merely dig the earth in the garden and bear jars of water on your shoulders?"

The slave opened his lips with a silent smile and exhibited two rows of teeth fit to crush
date-stones. The grin meant, "I have not always been old and a captive."

Enlightened by Souhem's suggestion, Nofré immediately thought of the handsome Ahmosis, the
oëris of the Pharaoh, who so often passed below the terrace, and who had looked so splendid
on his war chariot in the triumphal procession. As she was in love with him herself, though
she was not fully aware of it, she assumed that her mistress shared her feelings. She put on
a somewhat heavier dress and repaired to the officer's dwelling. It was there, she fancied,
that Tahoser would certainly be found.

The young officer was seated on a low seat at the end of the room. On the walls hung trophies
of different weapons: the leather tunic covered with bronze plates on which was engraved the
cartouche of the Pharaoh; the brazen poniard, with the jade handle open-worked to allow the
fingers to pass through; the flat-edged battle-axe, the falchion with curved blade; the helmet
with its double plume of ostrich-feathers; the triangular bow; and the red-feathered arrows.
His distinctive necklaces were placed upon pedestals, and open coffers showed booty taken from
the enemy.

When he saw Nofré, whom he knew well, standing on the threshold, he felt quick pleasure, his
brown cheeks flushed, his muscles quivered, his heart beat high. He thought Nofré brought him
a message from Tahoser, although the priest's daughter had never taken notice of his glances;
but the man to whom the gods have imparted the gift of beauty easily fancies that all women
fall in love with him. He rose and took a few steps towards Nofré, whose anxious glance examined
the corners of the room to make sure whether Tahoser was there or not.

"What brings you here, Nofré?" said Ahmosis, seeing that the young maid, full of her search,
did not break silence. "Your mistress is well, I hope, for I think I saw her yesterday at the
Pharaoh's entry."

"You should know whether my mistress is well better than any one else," replied Nofré; "for
she has fled from her home without informing any one of her intentions. I could swear by Hathor
that you know the refuge which she chose."

"She has disappeared!--what are you talking about?" cried Ahmosis, with a surprise that was
unquestionably genuine.

"I thought she loved you," said Nofré, "and sometimes the best-behaved maidens lose their heads.
So she is not here?"

"The god Phrah, who sees everything, knows where she is, but not one of his beams, which end
in hands, has fallen on her within these walls. Look for yourself and visit every room."

"I believe you, Ahmosis, and I must go; for if Tahoser had come, you could not conceal it from
her faithful Nofré, who would have asked nothing better than to serve your loves. You are handsome;
she is very rich and a virgin; the gods would have beheld your marriage with pleasure."

Nofré returned to the house more anxious and more upset than before. She feared that the servants
might be suspected of having killed Tahoser in order to seize on her riches, and that the judges
would seek to make them confess under torture what they did not actually know.

The Pharaoh, on his part, was also thinking of Tahoser. After having made the libations and
the offerings required by the ritual, he had seated himself in the inner court of the harem,
and was sunk in thought, paying no attention to the gambols of his women, who, nude and crowned
with flowers, were disporting themselves in the transparent waters of the piscina, splashing
each other and uttering shrill, sonorous bursts of laughter, in order to attract the attention
of the master, who had not made up his mind, contrary to his habit, which of them should be
the favourite queen that week.

It was a charming picture which these beautiful women presented; in a framework of shrubs and
flowers, in the centre of the court, surrounded by columns painted in brilliant colours, in
the clear light of an azure sky, across which flew from time to time an ibis with outstretched
neck and trailing legs, their shapely bodies shone in the water like submerged statues of jasper.

Amense and Twea, weary of swimming, had emerged from the water, and kneeling on the edge of
the basin, were spreading out to dry in the sun their thick black hair, the long locks of which
made their white skins seem whiter still. A few last drops of water ran down their shining
shoulders and their arms polished like jade. Maids rubbed them with aromatic oil and essences,
while a young Ethiopian girl held out the calyx of a large flower so that they might breathe
its perfume.

It might have been thought that the artist who had carved the decorative bassi-relievi of the
rooms in the harem had taken these graceful groups as models; but the Pharaoh could not have
looked with a colder glance at the designs cut in the stone. Perched on the back of his armchair
the tame monkey was eating dates and cracking its jaws; against the master's legs the tame
cat rubbed itself, arching its back; the deformed dwarf pulled the monkey's tail and the cat's
moustaches, making the one scratch and the other chatter, a performance which usually caused
His Majesty to smile; but His Majesty was not in a smiling mood on that day. He put the cat
aside, made the monkey get off the armchair, smote the dwarf on the head, and walked toward
the granite apartments.

Each of those rooms was formed of blocks of prodigious size, and closed by stone gates which
no human power could have forced unless the secret of opening them were known. Within these
halls were kept the riches of the Pharaoh, and the booty taken from conquered nations. They
held ingots of precious metals, crowns of gold and silver, neckplates and bracelets of cloisonné
enamel, earrings which shone like the disc of Moui, necklaces of seven rows of cornelian, lapis-lazuli,
red jasper, pearls, agates, sardonyx, and onyx; exquisitely chased anklets, belts, with plates
engraved with hieroglyphs, rings with scarabæi set in them; quantities of fishes, crocodiles,
and hearts stamped out of gold, serpents in enamel twisted on themselves; bronze vases, flagons
of wavy alabaster, and of blue glass on which wound white spirals; coffers of enamelled ware;
boxes of sandal wood of strange and chimerical forms; heaps of aromatic gums from all countries;
blocks of ebony; precious stuffs so fine that a whole piece could have been pulled through
a ring; white and black ostrich plumes, and others coloured in various ways; monstrously huge
elephant's-tusks, cups of gold, silver, gilded glass; statues marvellous both as regards the
material and the workmanship.

In every room the Pharaoh caused to be taken a litter-load borne by two robust slaves of Kousch
and Scheto, and clapping his hands, he called Timopht, the servant who had followed Tahoser,
and said to him, "Have all these things taken to Tahoser, the daughter of the high-priest Petamounoph,
from the Pharaoh."

Timopht placed himself at the head of the procession, which crossed the Nile on a royal barge,
and soon the slaves with their load reached Tahoser's house.

"For Tahoser, from the Pharaoh," said Timopht, knocking at the door.

At the sight of those treasures Nofré nearly fainted, half with fear, half with amazement.
She dreaded lest the King should put her to death on learning that the priest's daughter was
no longer there.

"Tahoser has gone," said she, tremulously, "and I swear by the four sacred geese, Amset, Sis,
Soumauts, and Kebhsniv, which fly to the four quarters of the wind, that I know not where she is."

"The Pharaoh beloved of Phré, favourite of Ammon Ra, has sent these gifts,--I cannot take them
back. Keep them until Tahoser is found. You shall answer for them on your head. Have them put
away in rooms and guarded by faithful servants," replied the envoy of the King.

When Timopht returned to the palace and, prostrate, his elbows close to his sides, his brow
in the dust, said that Tahoser had vanished, the King became very wroth, and he struck the
slab of the flooring so fiercely with his sceptre that the slab was split.

VIII

Tahoser, nevertheless, scarce bestowed a thought on Nofré, her favourite maid, or on the anxiety
which her absence would necessarily cause. The beloved mistress had completely forgotten her
beautiful home in Thebes, her servants, and her ornaments,--a most difficult and incredible
thing in a woman. The daughter of Petamounoph had not the least suspicion of the Pharaoh's
love for her; she had not observed the glance full of desire which had fallen upon her from
the heights of that majesty which nothing on earth could move. Had she seen it, she would have
deposited the royal love as an offering, with all the flowers of her soul, at the feet of Poëri.

While driving her spindle with her toe to make it ascend along the thread,--for this was the
task which had been set her,--she followed with her glance every motion of the young Hebrew,
her looks enveloped him like a caress. She silently enjoyed the happiness of remaining near
him in the building to which he had given her access.

If Poëri had turned towards her, he would no doubt have been struck by the moist brilliancy
of her eyes, the sudden blushes which flushed her fair cheeks, the quick beating of her heart
which might be guessed by the rising and falling of her bosom; but seated at a table, he bent
over a leaf of papyrus on which, with the help of a reed, taking ink from a hollowed slab of
alabaster, he inscribed accounts in demotic numbers.

Did Poëri perceive the evident love of Tahoser for him? Or for some secret reason, did he pretend
not to perceive it? His manner towards her was gentle and kindly, but reserved, as if he sought
to prevent or repel some importunate confession which it would have given him pain to reply
to. And yet the sham Hora was very beautiful. Her charms, betrayed by the poverty of her dress,
were all the more beautiful; and just as in the hottest hours of the day a luminous vapour
is seen quivering upon the gleaming earth, so did an atmosphere of love shimmer around her.
On her half-open lips her passion fluttered like a bird that seeks to take its flight; and
softly, very softly, when she was sure that she would not be heard, she repeated like a monotonous
cantilena, "Poëri, I love you."

It was harvest time, and Poëri went out to oversee the workmen. Tahoser, who could no more
leave him than the shadow can leave the body, followed him timidly, fearing lest he should
tell her to remain in the house; but the young man said to her in a voice marked by no accent
of anger,--

"Grief is lightened by the sight of the peaceful work of agriculture, and if some painful remembrance
of vanished prosperity weighs down your soul, it will disappear at the sight of this joyous
activity. These things must be novel to you, for your skin, which the sun has never kissed,
your delicate feet, your slender hands, and the elegance with which you drape yourself in the
piece of coarse stuff which serves you for a vestment, prove to me that you have always inhabited
cities, and have lived in the midst of refinement and luxury. Come, then, and sit down, while
still turning your spindle, under the shadow of that tree, where the harvesters have hung up,
to keep it cool, the skin which holds their drink."

Tahoser obeyed and sat down under the tree, her arms crossed on her knees and her knees up
to her chin. From the garden wall, the plain stretched to the foot of the Libyan chain like
a yellow sea over which the least breath of air drove waves of gold. The light was so intense
that the golden tone of the grain whitened in places and became silvery. In the rich mud of
the Nile the grain had grown strong, straight, and high like javelins, and never had a richer
harvest, flaming and crackling with heat, been outspread in the sun. The crop was abundant
enough to fill up to the ceiling the range of vaulted granaries which rose near the cellars.

The workmen had already been a long while at work, and here and there out of the waves of the
corn showed their woolly or close-shaven heads covered with pieces of white stuff, and their
naked torsos the colour of baked brick. They bent and rose with a regular motion, cutting the
grain just below the ear, as regularly as if they had followed a line marked out by a cord.
Behind them in the furrows walked the gleaners with esparto bags, in which they placed the
harvested ears, and which they then carried on their shoulders, or suspended from a cross-bar
and with the help of a companion, to grinding-mills situated some distance apart. Sometimes
the breathless harvesters stopped to take breath, and putting their sickles under their right
arm drank a draught of water. Then they quickly resumed their work, fearing the foreman's stick.

The harvested grain was spread on the threshing-floor in layers evened with a pitchfork, and
slightly higher on the edges on account of the additional basketfuls which were being poured on.

Then Poëri signed to the ox-driver to bring on his animals. They were superb oxen with long
horns, curved like the head-dress of Isis, with high withers, deep dewlaps, clean, muscular
limbs; the brand of the estate, stamped with a red-hot iron, showed upon their flanks. They
walked slowly, bearing a horizontal yoke which bore equally upon the heads of the four.

They were driven on to the threshing-floor; urged by the double-lashed whip, they began to
trample in a circle, making the grain spring from the ear under their cloven hoofs; the sun
shone on their lustrous coats, and the dust which they raised ascended to their nostrils, so
that after going around about twenty times, they would lean one against another, and in spite
of the hissing whip which lashed their flanks, they would unmistakably slacken their pace.
To encourage them, the driver who followed them, holding by the tail the nearest animal, began
to sing in a joyous, quick rhythm the old ox-song: "Turn for yourselves, O oxen, turn for yourselves;
measures for you, and measures for your masters." And the team, with new spirit, started on
and disappeared in a cloud of yellow dust that sparkled like gold.

The work of the oxen done, came servants who, armed with wooden scoops, threw the grain into
the air and let it fall to separate it from the straw, the awn, and the shell. The grain thus
winnowed was put into bags, the numbers of which were noted by a scribe, and carried to the
lofts, which were reached by ladders.

Tahoser under the shadow of her tree enjoyed this animated and grandiose spectacle, and often
her heedless hand forgot to spin the thread. The day was waning, and already the sun, which
had risen behind Thebes, had crossed the Nile and was sinking towards the Libyan chain, behind
which its disc sets every evening. It was the hour when the cattle returned from the fields
to the stable. She watched near Poëri the long pastoral procession.

First was seen advancing the vast herd of oxen, some white, others red, some black with lighter
spots, others piebald, others brindled. They were of all colours and all sizes. They passed
by, lifting up their lustrous mouths whence hung filaments of saliva, opening their great,
gentle eyes; the more impatient, smelling the stables, half raised themselves for a moment
and peered above the horned multitude, with which, as they fell, they were soon confounded;
the less skilful, outstripped by their companions, uttered long, plaintive bellows as if to
protest. Near the oxen walked the herds with their whip and their rolled up cord.

On arriving near Poëri they knelt down, and, with their elbows close to their sides, touched
the ground with their lips as a mark of respect. Scribes wrote down the number of heads of
cattle upon tablets.

Behind the oxen came the asses, trotting along and kicking under the blows of the donkey drivers.
These had smooth-shaven heads, and were dressed in a mere linen girdle, the end of which fell
between their legs. The donkeys went past, shaking their long ears and trampling the ground
with their little, hard hoofs. The donkey drivers performed the same genuflection as the ox-herds,
and the scribes noted also the exact number of the animals.

Then it was the turn of the goats. They arrived, headed by the he-goat, their broken and shrill
voices trembling with pleasure; the goat-herds had much difficulty in restraining their high
spirits and in bringing back to the main body the marauding ones which strayed away. They were
counted, like the oxen and the asses, and with the same ceremonial the goat-herds prostrated
themselves at Poëri's feet.

The procession was closed by the geese, which, weary with walking on the road, balanced themselves
on their web feet, flapped their wings noisily, stretched out their necks, and uttered hoarse
cries. Their number was taken, and the tablets handed to the steward of the domain. Long after
the oxen, the asses, the goats, and the geese had gone in, a column of dust which the wind
could not sweep away still rose slowly into the heavens.

"Well, Hora," said Poëri to Tahoser, "has the sight of the harvest and the flocks amused you?
These are our pastoral pleasures. We have not here, as in Thebes, harpists and dancers; but
agriculture is holy; it is the nurse of man, and he who sows a grain of corn does a deed agreeable
to the gods. Now come and take your meal with your companions. For my part, I am going back
to the house to calculate how many bushels of wheat the ears have produced."

Tahoser put one hand to the ground and the other on her head as a mark of respectful assent,
and withdrew.

In the dining-hall laughed and chattered a number of young servants as they ate their onions
and cakes of doora and dates. A small earthenware vase full of oil, in which dipped a wick,
gave them light,--for night had fallen,--and cast a yellow light upon their brown cheeks and
bodies which no garment veiled. Some were seated on ordinary wooden seats, others leaned against
the wall with one leg drawn up.

"Where does the master go like that every evening?" said a little, sly-looking maid, as she
peeled a pomegranate with pretty, monkey-like gestures.

"The master goes where he pleases," replied a tall slave, who was chewing the petals of a flower.
"Is he to tell you what he does? It is not you, in any case, who will keep him here."

"Why not I as well as another?" answered the child, piqued.

The tall slave shrugged her shoulders.

"Hora herself, who is fairer and more beautiful than any of us, could not manage it. Though
he bears an Egyptian name and is in the service of the Pharaoh, he belongs to the barbarous
race of Israel, and if he goes out at night, it is no doubt to be present at the sacrifices
of children which the Hebrews perform in desert places, where the owl hoots, the hyena howls,
and the adder hisses."

Tahoser quietly left the room without a word, and concealed herself in the garden behind the
mimosa bushes. After waiting two hours, she saw Poëri issue forth into the country. Light and
silent as a shadow, she started to follow him.

IX

Poëri, who was armed with a strong palm stick, walked towards the river along a causeway built
over a field of submerged papyrus which, leafy at their base, sent up on either hand their
straight stalks six and eight cubits high, ending in a tuft of fibre and looking like the lances
of an army in battle array.

Holding in her breath and walking on tiptoe, Tahoser followed him on the narrow road. There
was no moon that night, and the thick papyrus would in any case have been sufficient to conceal
the young girl, who remained somewhat behind.

An open space had to be crossed. The sham Hora let Poëri go on first, bent down, made herself
as small as she could, and crawled along the ground. Next they entered a mimosa wood, and,
concealed by the clumps of trees, Tahoser was able to proceed without having to take as many
precautions. She was so close to Poëri, whom she feared to lose sight of in the darkness, that
very often the branches that he pushed aside slapped her in the face; but she paid no attention
to this. A feeling of burning jealousy drove her to seek the solution of the mystery, which
she did not interpret as did the servants in the house. Not for one moment had she believed
that the young Hebrew went out thus every night to perform any infamous and profane rite; she
believed that a woman was at the bottom of these nocturnal excursions, and she wanted to know
who her rival was. The cold kindness of Poëri had proved to her that his heart was already
won; otherwise, how could he have remained insensible to charms famous throughout Thebes and
the whole of Egypt? Would he have pretended not to understand a love that would have filled
with pride oëris, priests, temple scribes, and even princes of the royal blood?

On reaching the river shore, Poëri descended a few steps cut out of the slope of the bank,
and bent down as if he were casting off a rope. Tahoser, lying flat on the summit of the bank,
above which the top of her head alone showed, saw to her great despair that the mysterious
stroller was casting off a light papyrus bark, narrow and long like a fish, and that he was
making ready to cross the river. The next moment he sprang into the boat, shoved off with his
foot, and sculled into the open with a single oar placed at the stern of the skiff.

The poor girl was plunged in grief and despair: she was going to lose track of the secret which
it was so important that she should learn. What was she to do? Retrace her steps, her heart
a prey to suspicion and uncertainty, the worst of evils? She summoned all her courage and soon
made up her mind. It was useless to think of looking for another boat. She let herself down
the bank, drew off her dress in a twinkling, and fastened it in a roll upon her head; then
she boldly plunged into the river, taking care not to splash. As supple as a water-snake, she
stretched out her lovely arms over the dark waves in which quivered the reflection of the stars,
and began to follow the boat at a distance. She swam superbly, for every day she practised
with her women in the vast piscina in her palace, and no one cleaved the waters more skilfully
than Tahoser.

The current, less swift at this point, did not greatly hinder her, but in the centre of the
stream she had to strike out in the boiling water and to swim faster in order to avoid being
carried to leeward. Her breath came shorter and quicker, and yet she held it in lest the young
Hebrew should hear her. Sometimes a higher wave lapped with its foam her half-open lips, wetted
her hair, and even reached her dress rolled up in a bundle. Happily for her,--for her strength
was beginning to give way,--she soon found herself in stiller water. A bundle of reeds coming
down the river touched her as it passed, and filled her with quick terror. The dark, green
mass looked in the darkness like the back of a crocodile; Tahoser thought she had felt the
rough skin of the monster; but she recovered from her terror and said, as she swam on, "What
matter if the crocodiles eat me up, if Poëri loves me not?"

There was real danger, especially at night. During the day the constant crossing of boats and
the work going on along the quays drove away the crocodiles, which went to shores less frequented
by man to wallow in the mud and to sun themselves; but at night they became bold again.

Tahoser did not think of them; love is no calculator, and even if she had thought of this form
of peril, she would have braved it, timid though she was, and frightened by an obstinate butterfly
that mistaking her for a flower kept fluttering around her.

Suddenly the boat stopped, although the bank was still some distance away. Poëri, ceasing to
scull, seemed to cast an uneasy glance around him. He had perceived the whitish spot made on
the water by Tahoser's rolled up dress. Thinking she was discovered, the intrepid swimmer bravely
dived, resolved not to come to the surface, even were she to drown, until Poëri's suspicions
had been dispelled.

"I could have sworn somebody was swimming behind me," said Poëri, as he went on sculling again;
"but who would venture into the Nile at such a time as this? I must have been crazy. I mistook
for a human head covered with linen a tuft of white reeds, or perhaps a mere flake of foam,
for I can see nothing now."

When Tahoser, whose temples were beginning to beat violently, and who began to see red flashes
in the dark waters of the river, rose hastily to fill her lungs with a long breath of air,
the papyrus boat had resumed its confident way, and Poëri was handling the scull with the imperturbable
phlegm of the allegorical personages who row the barge of Maut on the bassi-relievi and the
paintings of the temples. The bank was only a few strokes off; the vast shadow of the pylons
and the huge walls of the Northern Palace--the dark pile of which was faintly seen surmounted
by the pyramidions of six obelisks through the violet blue of the night--spread immense and
formidable over the river, and sheltered Tahoser, who could swim without fear of being noticed.

Poëri landed a little below the palace and fastened his boat to a post so as to find it on
his return. Then he took his palm stick and ascended the slope of the quay with a swift step.

Poor Tahoser, almost worn out, clung with her stiffened hands to the first step of the stair,
and with difficulty drew from the stream her dripping limbs, which the contact of the air made
heavier as she suddenly felt the fatigue. But the worst of her task was over. She climbed the
steps, one hand pressed to her quick-beating heart, the other placed on her head to steady
her rolled up and soaked dress. After having noticed the direction in which Poëri was walking,
she sat down on top of the bank, untied her dress, and put it on. The contact of the wet stuff
made her shudder slightly, yet the night air was soft and the southern breeze blew warm; but
she was stiff and feverish, and her little teeth were chattering. She summoned up her energy,
and gliding close by the sloping walls of the giant buildings, she managed not to lose sight
of the young Hebrew, who turned around the corner of the mighty brick walls of the palace and
entered the streets of Thebes.

After walking for some fifteen minutes, the palaces, the temples, the splendid dwellings vanished,
and were replaced by humbler houses; granite, sandstone, and limestone were replaced by unbaked
bricks and by clay worked with straw. Architectural design disappeared; low huts showed around
like blisters or warts upon lonely places, upon waste fields, and were changed by the darkness
into monstrous shapes. Pieces of wood and moulded bricks arranged in heaps obstructed the way.
Out of the silence rose strange, troubling sounds: an owl whirled through the air, lean dogs,
raising their long, pointed noses, followed with plaintive bay the erratic flight of a bat;
scorpions and frightened reptiles scurrying by, made the dry grass rattle.

"Could Harphre have spoken the truth?" thought Tahoser, impressed by the sinister aspect of
the place. "Is it possible that Poëri comes here to sacrifice a child to those barbarous gods
who love blood and suffering? Never was any place better fitted for cruel rites."

Meanwhile, profiting by the shadow of corners, the ends of walls, the clumps of vegetation,
and the unevenness of the ground, she kept at the same distance from Poëri.

"Even if I were to be present as an invisible witness at some scene as frightful as a nightmare,
to hear the cries of the victim, to see the priest, his hands red with blood, draw from the
little body the smoking heart, I should go on to the end," said Tahoser to herself, as she
saw the young Hebrew enter a hut built of clay, through the crevices of which shone a few rays
of yellow light.

When Poëri was fairly within, the daughter of Petamounoph approached, though not a pebble cracked
under her light step, nor a dog marked her presence by a bark. She went around the hut, pressing
her hand to her heart and holding in her breath, and discovered, by seeing it shine against
the dark ground of the clay wall, a crack wide enough to allow her glance to penetrate the
interior. A small lamp lighted the room, which was less bare than might have been supposed
from the outward appearance of the cabin. The smooth walls were as polished as stucco. On wooden
pedestals, painted in various colours, were placed vases of gold and silver; jewels sparkled
in half-open coffers; dishes of brilliant metal shone on the wall; and a nosegay of rare flowers
bloomed in an enamelled jar in the centre of a small table. But it was not these details which
interested Tahoser, although the contrast of this concealed luxury with the external poverty
of the dwelling had at first somewhat surprised her. Her attention was irresistibly attracted
by another object.

On a low platform covered with matting was a marvellously beautiful woman of an unknown race.
She was fairer than any of the maids of Egypt, as white as milk, as white as a lily, as white
as the ewes which have just been washed. Her eyebrows were curved like ebony bows, and their
points met at the root of the thin, aquiline nose, the nostrils of which were as rosy as the
interior of a shell; her eyes were like doves' eyes, bright and languorous; her lips were like
two bands of purple, and as they parted showed rows of pearls; her hair hung on either side
of her rosy cheeks in black, lustrous locks like two bunches of ripe grapes. Earrings shimmered
in her ears, and necklaces of golden plates inlaid with silver sparkled around a neck that
was round and polished like an alabaster column. Her dress was peculiar. It consisted of a
full tunic embroidered with stripes and symmetrical designs of various colours, falling from
her shoulders half-way down her legs and leaving her arms free and bare.

The young Hebrew sat down by her on the matting, and spoke to her words which Tahoser could
not understand, but the meaning of which she unfortunately guessed too well; for Poëri and
Ra'hel spoke in the language of their country, so sweet to the exile and captive. Yet hope
dies hard in the loving breast. If they asked the canons silence answered
that they were forced to shut up the choir, as they were at home, much older than the cathedral.
Do you know this guy?

- Yes, now I remember. Valero Archbishop Losa lawsuit put them in the early eighteenth century.
Look at his tomb at the foot of the altar. He lost the lawsuit, died of disgust, and had him
buried he set foot here for the insolent wool after death, and who had beaten in life. The arrogance
of these ecclesiastical princes drove them to the proudest modesty
.... But this is what I wanted to teach?

- Things you look better.

Say goodbye to the Virgin. But mind you! What a face! Has adormilaos eyes. The great jembra.
I spend hours looking. Is my girlfriend ... Nights I dream about it ...!

They walked a few steps toward the front door of the cathedral to best view cover around the exterior
end wall of the choir. On the three holes drilled or chapels that runs a strip of ancient reliefs,
the work of an obscure medieval carver, representing scenes of Creation. Gabriel acknowledged
his rude and contemporary sculptures from the door Clock and the first works of the cathedral.

-
See you. In the first medallions, Adam and Eve are naked as worms.

But the Lord The cast of Paradise. They have to dress for the world, and look what they do just
clothes are. Look at the fifth medallion, to our right. What mood would the guy who did that!

Gabriel
looked carefully for the first time those reliefs forgotten. It was simple naturalism of the
Middle Ages, the confidence with which the artists depicted their
secular conceptions at the time of idealism, the desire to perpetuate
the triumph of the flesh in every corner ignored the mystical monuments,
to testify that life was not dead.

Eva was fall from the trees, with their clothes in disarray, and Adam about it, with a gesture of
madness sex, grabbed her arms to dominate it, and hit his mouth to his chest with such avidity
that the same could kiss than bite.

El Tato was proud to the surprise of his uncle.

- Hey, how are you?

I discovered that rolling down the church.

Sing the canons every day to the other side of that wall, never suspecting that their heads
are on such joys. And the glass, man? You look good. At first many color blind, confused the figures,
the short lead doodles and not guess anything. But I've spent entire afternoons studying them,
and I know them by heart. They are stories, things that painted his time there the glassmakers,
whose intricacies are lost, without any Christian who can get it.

He pointed to the windows of the second ship, through which filtered the light of the afternoon
with caramel tone.

- See you there - continued the dogcatcher -. A man with a red cape and sword climbs a ladder string.
In the window expect a nun. Think it's Don Juan Tenorio representing by All Saints. Further, these
two are in bed and people knocking at the door. Must be the same birds and the amazing family.
And in the other window, mind you either: porridge ball, neighbor without the robe of hair, things
in order, the times when people had no shame and walked with her
face up ... and the other side to air.

Gabriel smiled at the foolishness that the vagaries of ancient art
inspired by the dogcatcher.

- For in the choir, man, there is something
to see.

Here goes: it just trades in and out the canons.

Luna was the annihilation of admiration whenever he entered the choir. That stalls high, work on one
side of Philip of Burgundy and other Berruguete, he reveled in the
profusion marble, jasper and gold, statues and medallions.

It was the spirit of Michelangelo resurgent in the Cathedral of Toledo.

The dogcatcher examined the lower stalls, ferreting Gothic reliefs discoveries made by his
morbid curiosity. The first seating at ground level, where they sat category clerics of tiny, half
a century earlier was the high chairs, but during the past fifty years has made the great leap
art from the Gothic stiff and hard to softness and good taste of the Renaissance. Maestre
Rodrigo had carved at the time that Spain Christian, moved with enthusiasm, attended the recent
efforts of the Catholic Monarchs to complete the Reconquista.

In the backs and on the boards of the friezes, fifty and four carved paintings reproduced the
main incidents of the conquest of Granada.

El Tato not watching these planes of oak and walnut with throngs of riders and clusters of soldiers
Climbing up the walls of the Moorish cities. Was more interested in the arms of chairs, handrails
of the stairs leading to the high chairs, the projections that separate seats and serve to lay
his head, covered with grotesque animal and dogs, monkeys, birds, brothers and little page, all
in awkward, rare and obscene. Pigs and frogs mated in monstrous municipalities, the monkeys, with ignoble
gesture, writhing in lustful spasms, and little page linked in position
against the head sank on the cross of shims partner.

It was a cartoon world of lust, and thrills monkey gestures satiríacos,
which poked his carnal passion with the grimace of the most grotesque
animalism.

- Look here, man.

As funny, this is the most notable.

And Tato taught Gabriel figurine of a monk preaching chubby with huge ears donkey.

When they left the choir, Gabriel was near the large fresco of St. Christopher's teacher chapel. Just immediately
close a small door of the colossus, which leads to a staircase spiral
to the music file.

The artist under his arm a large book with covers dusty Gabriel showed.

-
I'll take it up.

And you hear something, it's worth.

And from his view of the tome to the hatch immediately, said:

- Oh, that file, Gabriel, what a pity da! Each time I visit I leave sad. Have around barbaric past.
All music books have pages torn, cuts where there was a letter painted a cartoon, something
nice. The old music sleep in the dust. The canons do not want it, do not understand or are
able to devote a few pesetas to be heard in the great feasts.

It is enough to get by with any piece Rossini, and as for the organ, the only thing that matters
is you play slow, very slow.

The more slowly, more religious, but the organist play a habanera.

Still watching the door of the file with melancholy eyes, as if to mourn over ruin the music.

-
And there, Gabriel, is very remarkable work that should not die as the world exists art. We in secular
music are not much, but believe me that Spain was something religious authors .... It is understood
that if there really is secular music and religious music, which I doubt, for me, there's only
music, and do not know what the handsome check separation, detailing where one ends and another
begins .... Behind that wall of San Cristobal sleep mutilated, dust shroud, the great Spanish
musicians. It is better to sleep. To hear what is sung in this choir! There is Christopher Morales,
who was three centuries ago Kapellmeister at the cathedral and twenty years before Palestrina began
reforming music. In Rome shared the glory with the famous teacher. His portrait is in the Vatican
and Lamentations, his motets, the Magnificat, sleep here forgotten for centuries. That Victoria
... Did you know? Another from the same period. Envious contemporaries called him "the monkey Palestrina
', taking all these works, imitations, after his long stay in Rome but believe me that rather
than ripping into Italian perhaps exceeded. Here is Rivera, a teacher Toledo, which nobody remembers,
and has on file an entire volume of Masses, and Romero de Avila, the best studied Mozarabic chant,
and Ramos de Pareja, a musician no less than fifteenth century, written in Bologna his book Tractatus
music, and destroyed the old system Guido of Arezzo, discovering the "temperament of the sounds,"
and the monk Ureña, which adds note if the scale, and Javier Garcia, who in the past century
reformed the music, leading it to Italy (God forgive him!) beaten path which have not yet emerged,
and Nebra, the great organist Charles III, a man who a century before Wagner was born in Spain
and used musical dissonance. When writing the Requiem for the funeral of Mrs. Barbara de Braganza,
sensing the strangeness of instrumentalists and singers to his revolutionary music, he in the
range of particellas: "Note that this paper is not wrong." His Litany was so famous, it was forbidden
to copy, under pain of excommunication, but useless work, because today is to excommunicate
whom he thought of it. Believe me, Gabriel, that file is a pantheon
of great men, but finally pantheon, where nobody comes back.

Then he added, lowering his voice:

- The Church has always been a little music lover. To understand it and feel it should be born
artist, and you know what all these guys that come to sing in the choir ... without knowing music.
When I see you, Gabriel, smiling at religious things, I guess in his expression how much he
is silent, and give the reason. I have been curious to know history of music in the Church
have followed step by step the long ordeal of art unhappy taking
up the cross of worship throughout the centuries.

You have heard many times of religious music, as if it were a thing apart, created by the Church.
Well, is a lie: there is religious music.

The dog catcher had moved away to hear that the Kapellmeister of tireless verve when talked about
his art, he attacked the subject of music.

He had formed his opinion on Don Luis, and told everyone in the upper cloister. It was a guillati,
who only knew how to play blues in his harmonium, not brighten it occurred to the poor of the
Claverias with something danceable as requested by the niece of Silver Stick.

Gabriel walked the priest and talking about the silent ships.

There were more people a group of people in the house at the door of the sacristy and two women
kneeling before the gate of the altar praying out loud. Began to spread through the twilight cathedral
of rapid winter evenings. The first bats descended from the vaults, flying between the forest
of columns.

- Music Church - said the artist - is a true anarchy. In all, the Church anarchic. Believe me,
the unity of the Catholic religion in all the land there is much to say. Christianity, to train
as a religion, not invented or a bad chant. Take the Jews their songs and how to sing: a primitive,
barbaric music, which if known now taladraría our ears. Outside of Palestine, where Jews were not
the first poets Christians, St. Ambrose, Prudentius, and others adapted their new hymns and psalms to
popular songs that were in vogue in the Roman world, or the Greek music. It seems this of
"Greek music" means a great deal, right, Gabriel? The Greeks so large in the arts and poetry, all that
bears his name seems wrapped in an environment of outstanding beauty. Well, no sir, the Greek music
that should be a Charivari. The progress of the arts has not been paralleled in the life of
mankind. When the sculpture Phidias had reached the summit, the painting was no more than that
character almost rudimentary can still be seen in Pompeii and the music was a baby talk. The
script could not perpetuate the music, there were so many "modes", musical people, and almost
all of it were left to the performer. Unable to look at the parchment what they were singing
mouths and instruments, progress was therefore impossible.

For this has been a renaissance for sculpture, to painting and architecture
and the arts rise again after Middle Ages, they found the music in
the same children who had left when leaving ancient world.

Gabriel nodded his head movements to the words of Kapellmeister.

- This was the early Christian music - continued Don Luis -. Committed to the tradition and
transmitting ear, religious chants disfigured and corrupted. In each church sang differently. Religious
music was gibberish. The mystics tended to the hard drive, the inscrutable, and San Gregorio
in the sixth century published his Antifonario, a pastiche of all liturgical melodies, purifying
their discretion. It was a mixture of two elements: Greek, but oriental and floral, something
like the current Malaga, and Roman, serious and tough. Grades are expressed in letters, the tones
were still Phrygian, Lydian, etc., And continued the labyrinth of Greek music, but very lively,
with fioritudes, sighs and aspirations. The patchwork was lost, and much regret that want to return
to the old, believing it better. Judging by the fragments that remain, whether now runs the
music that nothing would of religion, as religion is understood today in art, it would be
a song as of the Moors, or Chinese, or some schismatic Greeks still remain in the liturgies old.
The harp was the instrument of the temple until the court appeared in the tenth century, rude
and barbarous instrument that had to play with his fists, and gave him air swollen skins. Guido
of Arezzo was a musical arrangement on the basis of pastiche, an arrangement nothing more, and
this was enough for the Benedictine hung the invention of the staff. Continued using the letters
of Boethius and Gregory as notes, and only put in two lines with
three different colors.

Continued the anarchic mess. Learn music badly then cost twelve years, and there was no singing in
different cities that they understood the same role. San Bernardo, dry and austere as his time,
he found absurd this song, to be minor.

He was refractory to art. He wanted the church dismantled, unadorned architectural and music
seemed the best the slowest. He was the father of plainsong, which said that music is the more
religious the more leisurely. But in the thirteenth century, Christians found this song boring.
The cathedrals were the point of distraction, drama, the center of life at that time. The temple
was going to pray a little to God and have fun forgetting the wars, violence and outrages abroad.
Again came the popular music in the Church, and sang in cathedrals songs in vogue, who were almost
always obscene. The people took part in church music, singing in various tessitura, each which,
as he thought best, and these were the first attempts of polyphonic singing voices or agreed.
Religion was so happy, popular, democratic, as you say, Gabriel; Inquisition had not yet suspected
of heresy or sour the mood with fanaticism and fear. Air crude instruments and string that entertained
artisans in cities and peasants in the mowing entered the temple and the body was accompanied by
violas, violins, trumpets, bagpipes, flutes, guitars and lutes. The chorale was liturgical in
most of Europe, but the faithful and despised by incomprehensible alternábanlo with songs. In major
parties were singing religious hymns, set to music of popular tunes that were in vogue, such
as Song of the gunman, Morena Give me a kiss I do not know what bulle; Duélete me, madam Curse
whom you married, and others of same style ... And Rome?, You ask, and the Church, what he said before
this mess ...? The Church lived without artistic criteria, not ever had. Failed to create an architecture
as hieratic, like other religions, or a painting or a sculpture that were his work, and less
music. Was adapting to the environment was acceptable and appropriate, with a lack absorbency
originality, so it was not his work, but of human progress. Greco-Roman style, Byzantine, Gothic,
Renaissance, all went into their construction, but art pure and original Christian does not exist,
never existed. In music, much talk of "severity" of "anointing" of "Gregorian traditions"
hollow words without precise meaning, vagueness that hide the lack
of artistic criteria. What are the boundaries of the religious and
the profane?

Poëri replied, when questioned by Timopht, that it was true that a young girl had presented
herself at his gate in the supplicating posture of misfortune, imploring hospitality on her
knees; that he had received her kindly; had offered her food and shelter; but that she had
left in a mysterious fashion for a reason which he could not fathom. In what direction had
she gone? That he did not know. No doubt, having rested, she had continued on her way to some
unknown place. She was beautiful, sad, wore a garment of common stuff, and appeared to be poor.
Did the name of Hora which she had given stand for that of Tahoser? It was for Timopht to answer
that question.

Provided with this information, Timopht returned to the palace, and keeping well out of the
reach of the Pharaoh's sceptre, he repeated what he had learned.

"What did she go to Poëri's for?" said the Pharaoh to himself. "If Hora is really Tahoser,
she loves Poëri. And yet, no! for she would not have fled thus, after having been received
under his roof. I shall find her again, even if I have to upset the whole of Egypt from the
Cataracts to the Delta."

XI

Ra'hel, who from the threshold of the hut was watching Poëri go away, thought she heard a faint
sigh. She listened; some dogs were baying to the moon, an owl uttered its doleful hoot, and
the crocodiles moaned between the reeds of the river, imitating the cry of a child in distress.
The young Israelite was about to re-enter the hut when a more distinct moan, which could not
be attributed to the vague sounds of night, and which certainly came from a human breast, again
struck her ear. Fearing some ambush, she drew cautiously near the place whence came the sound,
and close to the wall of the hut she perceived in the blue transparent darkness the shape of
a body fallen to the ground. The wet drapery outlined the limbs of the false Hora and betrayed
her sex.

Ra'hel, seeing that she had to do with a fainting woman only, lost all fear and knelt by her,
questioning the breathing of her lips and the beating of her heart; the one was just expiring
on the pale lips, the other scarce beat under the cold breasts.

Feeling the water which had soaked the stranger's dress, Ra'hel thought at first that it was
blood, and imagined that the woman must be the victim of a murder. In order to help her to
better purpose, she called Thamar, her servant, and the two women carried Tahoser into the
hut. They laid her upon the couch. Thamar held up a lamp, while Ra'hel, bending over the girl,
looked for the wound; but no red streak showed upon the pallor of Tahoser, and her dress had
no crimson stain.

They stripped off her wet garment, and cast over her a piece of striped wool, the gentle warmth
of which soon restored her suspended circulation. Tahoser slowly opened her eyes and cast around
her a terrified glance like that of a captured gazelle. It took her some time to regain control
of her thoughts. She could not understand how she happened to be in that room, on the bed,
where but a moment ago she had seen Poëri and the young Israelite seated side by side with
clasped hands, speaking of love, while she, breathless, amazed, watched through the crack of
the wall; but soon memory returned, and with it the feeling of her situation.

The light fell full on Ra'hel's face. Tahoser studied it silently, grieved to find her so perfectly
beautiful. In vain, with all the fierceness of feminine jealousy, she tried to note defects
in her; she felt herself not vanquished, but equalled; Ra'hel was the Hebrew ideal, as Tahoser
was the Egyptian. Hard though it was to her loving heart, she was compelled to admit that Poëri's
love was justified and well bestowed. The eyes with their full black eyelashes, the beautiful
nose, the red mouth with its dazzling smile, the long, elegant oval face, the arms, full near
the shoulders and ending in childish hands, the round, plump neck which, as it turned, formed
folds more beautiful than necklaces of gems,--all this, set off by a quaint, exotic dress,
was sure to please.

"I made a great mistake," said Tahoser to herself, "when I presented myself to Poëri in the
humble attitude of a suppliant, trusting to my charms overpraised by flatterers. Fool that
I was! I acted as a soldier who should go to war without breastplate or weapons. If I had appeared
in all my splendour, covered with jewels and enamels, standing on my golden car followed by
my numerous slaves, I might perhaps have touched his fancy, if not his heart."

"How do you feel now?" said Ra'hel in Egyptian to Tahoser; for by the outline of the face and
the dressing of the hair, she had perceived that the maiden did not belong to the Israelitish
race. The sound of her voice was sympathetic and sweet, and the foreign accent added greater
grace to it.

Tahoser was touched in spite of herself, and replied, "I feel better. Your kind care will soon
have restored me."

"Do not tire yourself with speaking," answered the Israelite, placing her hand on Tahoser's
lips. "Try to sleep, to regain your strength. Thamar and I will watch over you."

Her agitation, the swim across the Nile, the long walk through the poor quarters of Thebes,
had wearied out Petamounoph's daughter; her delicate frame was exhausted, and soon her long
lashes closed, forming a dark semicircle upon her cheeks flushed with fever. Sleep came to
her, but broken, restless, distorted by strange dreams, troubled by threatening hallucinations;
nervous shivers made the sleeper start, and broken words, replying to the dream dialogue, were
spoken by the half-opened lips.

Seated at the bed head, Ra'hel followed the changes in the features of Tahoser; troubled when
she saw them contract and fill with grief, quieted again when the girl calmed down. Thamar,
crouching beside her mistress, was also watching the priest's daughter, but her face expressed
less kindliness. Coarse instincts showed in the wrinkles of her brow, pressed down by the broad
band of the Hebrew head-dress; her eyes, still bright in spite of her age, sparkled with curious
questionings in their brown and wrinkled orbits; her bony nose, shining and curved like a vulture's
beak, seemed to scent out secrets; and her lips, slightly moving, appeared to be framing interrogations.

She was very much concerned about this stranger picked up at the door of the hut. Whence came
she? How did she happen to be there? What was her purpose? Who could she be? Such were the
questions which Thamar asked herself, and to which, very regretfully, she could find no satisfactory
replies. Besides, Thamar, like all old women, was prejudiced against beauty, and in this respect
Tahoser proved very unpleasant to her. The faithful servant forgave beauty in her mistress
only; for her good looks she considered as her property, and she was proud and jealous of them.

Seeing that Ra'hel kept silence, the old woman rose and sat down near her, and winking her
eyes, the brown lids of which rose and fell like a bat's wing, she whispered in the Hebrew
tongue, "Mistress, nothing good will come of this woman."

"Why do you think so, Thamar?" answered Ra'hel, in the same low tone and using the same language.

"It is strange," went on the suspicious Thamar, "that she should have fainted there, and not
elsewhere."

"She fell at the spot where weakness came upon her."

The old woman shook her head doubtfully.

"Do you suppose," said Poëri's beloved, "that her faint was simulated? The dissector might
have cut her side with his sharp stone, so like a dead body did she seem. Her dull eyes, her
pale lips, her pallid cheeks, her limp limbs, her skin as cold as that of the dead,--these
things cannot be counterfeited."

"No, doubtless," replied Thamar, "although there are women clever enough to feign all these
symptoms, for some reason or another, so skilfully as to deceive the most clear-sighted. I
believe that the maiden had swooned, as a matter of fact."

"Then what are you suspicious of?"

"How did she happen to be there in the middle of the night; in this distant quarter inhabited
only by the poor captives of our tribe whom the cruel Pharaoh employs in making brick, and
to whom he refuses the straw necessary to burn the bricks? What motive brought that Egyptian
woman to our wretched huts? Why was her garment soaking wet, as if she had just emerged from
a pool or from the river?"

"I know no more than you do," replied Ra'hel.

"Suppose she were a spy of our masters'," said the old woman, whose fierce eyes were lighted
up with hatred. "Great events are preparing,--who knows whether the alarm has not been given?"

"How could that young girl, ill as she is, hurt us? She is in our hands, weak, alone, ill.
Besides, we can, at the least suspicious sign, keep her prisoner until the day of deliverance."

"In any case, she is not to be trusted. See how delicate and soft are her hands!"

And old Thamar raised one of the arms of the sleeping Tahoser.

"In what respect can the fineness of her skin endanger us?"

"Oh, imprudent youth!" said Thamar; "oh, mad youth! which cannot see anything, which walks
through life trustfully, without believing in ambushes, in brambles under the grass, in hot
coals under the ashes, and which would gladly caress a viper, believing it to be only a snake.
Open your eyes! That woman does not belong to the class of which she seems to be; her thumb
has never been flattened on the thread of the spindle, and that little hand, softened by essences
and pomades, has never worked. Her poverty is a disguise."

Thamar's words appeared to impress Ra'hel; she examined Tahoser more attentively. The lamp
shed upon her its trembling rays, and the delicate form of the priest's daughter showed in
the yellow light relaxed in sleep. The arm which Thamar had raised still rested upon the mantle
of striped wool, showing whiter by contrast with the dark stuff; the wrist was circled with
a bracelet of sandal wood, the commonplace adornment of the coquetry of poverty; but if the
ornament was rude and roughly chased, the flesh it covered seemed to have been washed in the
perfumed bath of riches. Then Ra'hel saw how beautiful was Tahoser, but the discovery excited
no evil feeling in her heart; Tahoser's beauty softened, instead of irritating her as it did
Thamar; she could not believe that such perfection concealed a vile and perfidious soul; and
in this respect her youthful candour judged more correctly than the long experience of her maid.

Day at last dawned, and Tahoser's fever grew worse. She was delirious at times, and then would
fall into a prolonged slumber.

"If she were to die here," said Thamar, "we should be accused of having killed her."

"She will not die," replied Ra'hel, putting a cup of cool water to the lips of the sick girl.

"If she does, I shall throw her body by night into the Nile," continued the obstinate Thamar,
"and the crocodiles will undertake to make it disappear."

The day passed, the night came, and at the accustomed hour Poëri, having given the usual signal,
appeared as he had done the night before on the threshold of the hut.

Ra'hel came to meet him, her finger on her lips, and signed to him to keep silence and to speak
low, for Tahoser was sleeping. Poëri, whom Ra'hel led by the hand to the bed on which Tahoser
rested, at once recognised the sham Hora, whose disappearance had preoccupied him a good deal,
especially since the visit of Timopht, who was looking for her in his master's name.

Marked astonishment showed in his face as he rose, after having bent over the bed to make quite
certain that the young girl who lay there was the one whom he had welcomed, for he could not
understand how she happened to be in this place. His look of surprise smote Ra'hel to the heart.
She stood in front of Poëri to read the truth in his eyes, placed her hands upon his shoulders,
and fixing her glance upon him, said, in a dry, sharp voice which contrasted with her speech,
usually as gentle as the cooing of a dove,--

"So you know her?"

Thamar grinned with satisfaction; she was proud of her perspicacity, and almost glad to see
her suspicions as regarded the stranger partially justified.

"Yes," replied Poëri, quietly.

The bright eyes of the old woman sparkled with malicious curiosity.

Ra'hel's face resumed its expression of trustfulness; she no longer doubted her lover.

Poëri told her that a girl calling herself Hora had presented herself at his home as a suppliant;
that he had received her as any guest should be received; that the next day she had disappeared
from among the maids, and that he could not understand how she happened to be there. He also
added that the emissaries of the Pharaoh were everywhere looking for Tahoser, the daughter
of the high-priest Petamounoph, who had disappeared from her palace.

"You see that I was right, mistress," said Thamar, triumphantly. "Hora and Tahoser are one
and the same person."

"That may be," replied Poëri, "but there are a number of difficulties which my reason does
not explain. First, why should Tahoser, if it is she, don this disguise? Next, by what miracle
do I meet here the maiden whom I left last night on the other bank of the Nile, and who certainly
could not know whither I was going?"

"No doubt she followed you," said Ra'hel.

"I am quite sure that at that time there was no other boat on the river but mine."

"That is the reason her hair was so dripping-wet and her garments soaked. She must have swum
across the Nile."

"That may well be,--I thought for a moment that I had caught sight in the darkness of a human
head above the waters."

"It was she, poor child!" said Ra'hel; "her fatigue and her fainting corroborate it, for after
your departure I picked her up stretched senseless outside the hut."

"No doubt that is the way things occurred," said the young man. "I can see the acts, but I
cannot understand the motive."

"Let me explain it," said Ra'hel, smiling, "although I am but a poor, ignorant woman, and you
are compared, as regards your vast knowledge, to the priests of Egypt who study night and day
within sanctuaries covered with mystic hieroglyphs, the hidden meaning of which they alone
can penetrate. But sometimes men, who are so busy with astronomy, music, and numbers, do not
guess what goes on in a maiden's heart. They can see a distant star in the heavens; they do
not notice a love close to them. Hora--or rather, Tahoser, for it is she--took this disguise
to penetrate into your house and to live near you; jealous, she glided in the shadow behind
you; at the risk of being devoured by the crocodiles in the river she swam across the Nile.
On arriving here she watched us through some crack in the wall, and was unable to bear the
sight of our happiness. She loves you because you are very handsome, very strong, and very
gentle. But I do not care, since you do not love her. Now do you understand?"

A faint blush coloured Poëri's cheeks; he feared lest Ra'hel were angry and spoke thus to entrap
him, but her clear, pure glance betrayed no hidden thought. She was not angry with Tahoser
for loving the man whom she loved herself.

In her dreams Tahoser saw Poëri standing by her; ecstatic joy lighted up her features, and
half raising herself, she seized the hand of the young man to bear it to her lips.

"Her lips are burning," said Poëri, withdrawing his hand.

"With love as much as with fever," replied Ra'hel, "but she is really ill. Suppose Thamar were
to fetch Mosche. He is wiser than the wise men and the wizards of Pharaoh, every one of whose
wonders he imitates. He knows the secret properties of plants, and makes drinks of them which
would bring the dead to life. He shall cure Tahoser, for I am not cruel enough to wish her
to lose her life."

Thamar went off grumbling, and soon returned, followed by a very tall old man, whose majestic
aspect inspired reverence. A long white beard fell down over his breast, and on either side
of his brow two huge protuberances caught and retained the light. They looked like two horns
or two beams. Under his thick eyebrows his eyes shone like fire. He looked, in spite of his
simple dress, like a prophet or a god.

Acquainted with the state of things by Poëri, he sat down by Tahoser's couch, and said, as
he stretched his hand over her: "In the name of the Mighty One beside whom all other gods are
idols and demons,--though you do not belong to the elect of the Lord,--maiden, be cured!"

XII

The tall old man withdrew solemnly, leaving, as it were, a trail of light behind him. Tahoser,
surprised at feeling her sickness suddenly leave her, cast her eyes around the room, and soon,
wrapping herself in the blanket with which the young Israelite had covered her, she put her
feet to the ground and sat up on the edge of the bed. Fatigue and fever had completely left
her; she was as fresh as after a long rest, and her beauty shone in all its purity. Pushing
back with her little hands the plaited masses of her hair behind her ears, she showed her face
lighted up with love, as if she desired Poëri to read it; but seeing that he remained motionless
near Ra'hel without encouraging her by a sign or a glance, she rose slowly, drew near the young
Israelite girl, and threw her arms around her neck. She remained thus, her head in Ra'hel's
bosom, wetting it with her hot tears. Sometimes a sob she could not repress shook her convulsively
upon her rival's breast.

The complete yielding up of herself, and her evident misery, touched Ra'hel. Tahoser confessed
herself beaten, and implored her pity by mute supplication, appealing to her womanly generosity.

Ra'hel, much moved, kissed her and said,--

"Dry your tears and be not so sorrowful. You love Poëri? Well, love him, and I shall not be
jealous. Yacoub, a patriarch of our race, had two wives; one was called Ra'hel as I am, and
the other Leah. Yacoub preferred Ra'hel, and yet Leah, who was not beautiful like you, lived
happily with him."

Tahoser knelt at Ra'hel's feet and kissed her hand. Ra'hel raised her and put her arm around
her waist. They formed a charming group, these two women of different races, exhibiting, as
they did, the characteristic beauty of each: Tahoser elegant, graceful, and slender, like a
child that has grown too fast; Ra'hel dazzling, blooming, and superb in her precocious maturity.

"Tahoser," said Poëri, "for that is your name, I think,--Tahoser, daughter of the high-priest
Petamounoph?"

The young girl nodded assent.

"How is it that you, who live in Thebes in a rich palace, surrounded by slaves, and whom the
handsomest among the Egyptians desire,--how is it you have chosen to love me, a son of a race
reduced to slavery, a stranger who does not share your religious beliefs and who is separated
from you by so great a distance?"

Ra'hel and Tahoser smiled, and the high-priest's daughter replied,--

"That is the very reason."

"Although I enjoy the favour of the Pharaoh, although I am the steward of his domains and wear
gilded horns in the festivals of agriculture, I cannot rise to you. In the eyes of the Egyptians
I am but a slave, and you belong to the priestly caste, the highest and most venerated. If
you love me--and I cannot doubt that you do--you must give up your rank."

"Have I not already become your servant? Hora kept nothing of Tahoser, not even the enamelled
collars and the transparent gauze calasiris; that is why you thought me ugly."

"You will have to give up your country and follow me to unknown regions, through the desert
where burns the sun, where blows the fire-wind, where the moving sand tangles and effaces the
paths, where no tree grows, where no well springs, through the lost valleys of death strewn
with whitened bones that mark the way."

"I shall go," said Tahoser, quietly.

"That is not all," continued Poëri. "Your gods are not mine,--your gods of brass, basalt, and
granite, fashioned by the hand of man, your monstrous idols with heads of eagle, monkey, ibis,
cow, jackal, and lion, which assume the faces of beasts as if they were troubled by the human
face on which rests the reflection of Jehovah. It is said, 'Thou shalt worship neither stone
nor wood nor metal.' Within these temples cemented with the blood of oppressed races grin and
crouch the hideous, foul demons which usurp the libations, the offerings, and the sacrifices.
One only God, infinite, eternal, formless, colourless, fills the immensity of the heavens which
you people with a multitude of phantoms. Our God has created us; you have created your gods."

Although Tahoser was deeply in love with Poëri, his words affected her strangely, and she drew
back in terror. The daughter of the high-priest had been brought up to venerate the gods whom
the young Hebrew was boldly blaspheming; she had offered up on their altars bouquets of flowers,
and she had burned perfumes before their impassible images; amazed and delighted, she had walked
through their temples splendid with brilliant paintings. She had seen her father performing
the mysterious rites; she had followed the procession of priests who bore the symbolic bari
through the enormous pylons and the endless sphinx avenues; she had admired tremblingly the
psychostasis where the trembling soul appears before Osiris armed with the whip and the pedum,
and she had noted with a dreamy glance the frescoes representing the emblematic figures travelling
towards the regions of the West. She could not thus yield up all her beliefs. She was silent
for a few moments, hesitating between religion and love. Love won the day, and she said:

"You shall tell me of your God; I will try to understand him."

"It is well," said Poëri; "you shall be my wife. Meanwhile remain here, for the Pharaoh, no
doubt in love with you, is having you sought everywhere by his emissaries. He will never discover
you under this humble roof, and in a few days we shall be out of his power. But the night is
waning and I must depart."

Poëri went off, and the two young women, lying side by side on the soft bed, soon fell asleep,
holding each other's hands like two sisters.

Thamar, who during the foregoing scene had remained crouched in her corner of the room, looking
like a bat hanging from a corner by its talons, and had been muttering broken words and frowning,
now unfolded her bony limbs, rose to her feet, and bending over the bed, listened to the breathing
of the two sleepers. When the regularity of their breathing convinced her that they were sound
asleep, she went towards the door, walking with infinite precaution. Once outside, she sprang
with swift steps in the direction of the Nile, shaking off the dogs who hung on with their
teeth at the edge of her tunic, or dragging them through the dust until they let go; or she
glared at them with such fierce eyes that they drew back with frightened yelps and let her pass by.

She had soon passed the dangerous and deserted places inhabited at night by the members of
the thieves' association, and entered the wealthy quarter of Thebes. Three or four streets
bordered with tall buildings, the shadows of which fell in great angles, led her to the outer
wall of the palace, which was the object of her trip. The difficulty was to enter,--no easy
matter at that time of the night for an old Hebrew servant with dusty feet and shabby garments.

She went to the main pylon, before which watched, stretched at length, fifty ram-headed sphinxes,
arranged in two lines like monsters ready to crush between their granite jaws the imprudent
ones who should attempt to force a passage. The sentinels stopped her, struck her roughly with
the shafts of their javelins, and then asked her what she wished.

"I want to see the Pharaoh," replied the old woman, rubbing her back.

"That's right,--very nice! Waken for this witch the Pharaoh, favourite of Phré, beloved of
Ammon Ra, the destroyer of nations!" said the soldiers, laughing loudly.

Thamar repeated obstinately, "I want to see the Pharaoh at once."

"A very good time you have chosen for it! He sits on his terrace, motionless and sinister like
Typhon, the god of evil," said a soldier who condescended to give this explanation.

Ra'hel's maid endeavoured to force her way through; the javelins rattled on her head like hammers
on an anvil. She began to yell like a bird plucked alive.

An officer came out on hearing the tumult; the soldiers stopped beating Thamar.

"What does this woman want?" said the officer, "and why are you beating her in this way?"

"I want to see the Pharaoh," cried Thamar, dragging herself to the knees of the officer.

"Out of the question," replied the latter; "it is out of the question,--even if, instead of
being a low wretch, you were one of the greatest personages in the kingdom."

"I know where is Tahoser," whispered the old woman in his ear, laying stress on each syllable.

On hearing this, the officer took Thamar by the hand, led her through the first pylon and through
the avenue of pillars and the hypostyle hall into a second court, where rose the granite sanctuary,
with its two outer columns with lotus capitals. There, calling Timopht, he handed Thamar over
to him.

Timopht led the servant to the terrace where sat the Pharaoh, gloomy and silent.

"Keep well out of the reach of his sceptre," was the advice Timopht gave to the Israelite.

As soon as she perceived the King through the darkness, Thamar threw herself with her face
to the stone flags, by the side of the bodies which had not yet been removed, and then sitting
up, she said in a firm voice, "O Pharaoh, do not slay me, I bring you good news."

"Speak without fear," replied the King, whose fury had passed away.

"Tahoser, whom your messengers have sought in the four corners of the world,--I know where she is."

At the name of Tahoser, Pharaoh rose as if moved by a spring and stepped towards Thamar, who
was still kneeling.

"If you speak the truth, you may take from my granite halls as much as you can lift of gold
and precious stones."

"I will put her in your hands, you may be sure," said the old woman, with a strident laugh.

What was the motive which had led Thamar to inform the Pharaoh of the retreat where the priest's
daughter was in hiding?

She wished to prevent a union which she disliked. She entertained towards the race of Egypt,
a blind, fierce, unreasoning, almost bestial hatred, and the thought of breaking Tahoser's
heart delighted her. Once in the hands of the Pharaoh, Ra'hel's rival would be unable to escape;
the granite walls of the palace would keep their prey.

"Where is she?" said Pharaoh; "tell me the spot. I want to see her at once."

"Your Majesty, I alone can guide you. I know the windings of those loathsome quarters, where
the humblest of your servants would disdain to set foot. Tahoser is there, in a clay and straw
hut which nothing marks from the huts which surround it, amid the heaps of bricks which the
Hebrews make for you outside the regular dwellings of the city."

"Very well, I will trust you. Timopht, have a chariot brought around."

Timopht disappeared. Soon the wheels were heard rolling over the stones of the court, and the
horses stamping and pawing as the equerries fastened them to the yoke.

The Pharaoh came down, followed by Thamar. He sprang up on the chariot, took the reins, and
seeing that Thamar hesitated,--

"Come, get up," he said.

He clucked his tongue, and the horses started. The awakened echoes gave back the sound of the
wheels, which sounded like low thunder through the vast halls, in the midst of the night silence.
The hideous old woman, clinging with her bony fingers to the rim of the chariot by the side
of the godlike Pharaoh, presented a strange sight, which fortunately was seen by none but the
stars twinkling in the deep blue heavens. She resembled one of the evil genii of mysterious
face which accompany the guilty souls to Hades.

"Is this the way?" said the Pharaoh to the woman at the forks of a street.

"Yes," replied Thamar, stretching her withered hand in the right direction.

The horses, urged on by the whip, sprang forward, and the chariot leaped upon the stones with
a noise of brass.

Meanwhile Tahoser slept by the side of Ra'hel. A strange dream filled her sleep. She seemed
to be in a temple of immense size. Huge columns of prodigious height upbore the blue ceiling
studded with stars like the heavens; innumerable lines of hieroglyphs ascended and descended
along the walls between the panels of symbolic frescoes painted in bright colours. All the
gods of Egypt had met in this universal sanctuary, not as brass, basalt, or porphyry effigies,
but as living shapes. In the first rank were seated the gods Knef, Buto, Phtah, Pan-Mendes,
Hathor, Phré, Isis; then came the twelve celestial gods,--six male gods: Rempha, Pi-Zeous,
Ertosi, Pi-Hermes, Imuthi; and six female deities: the Moon, Ether, Fire, Air, Water, Earth.
Behind these swarmed vaguely and indistinctly three hundred and sixty-five Decans, the familiar
dæmons of each day. Next appeared the terrestrial deities: the second Osiris, Haroeri, Typhon,
the second Isis, Nephthys, the dog-headed Anubis, Thoth, Busiris, Bubastis, the great Serapis.
Beyond, in the shade, were faintly seen idols in form of animals,--oxen, crocodiles, ibises,
hippopotami. In the centre of the temple, in his open mummy-case, lay the high-priest Petamounoph,
who, the bandages having been unwound from his face, gazed with an ironical air at that strange
and mysterious assembly. He was dead, not living, and spoke, as it often happens in dreams;
and he said to his daughter, "Question them and ask them if they are gods."

And Tahoser proceeded to put to each one that question, and each and all replied: "We are only
numbers, laws, forces, attributes, effluvia, and thoughts of God, but not one of us is the
true God."

Then Poëri appeared on the threshold of the temple, and took Tahoser by the hand and led her
to a light so brilliant that in comparison with it the sun would have seemed black, and in
the centre of which blazed in a triangle words unknown to her.

Meanwhile Pharaoh's chariot flew over all obstacles, and the axles of the wheels rayed the
walls in the narrow lanes.

"Pull in your horses," said Thamar to the Pharaoh; "the noise of the wheels in this solitude
and silence might startle the fugitive, and she would again escape you."

The Pharaoh thought this advice sound, and in spite of his impatience made his horses slacken
their impetuous pace.

"There is the place," said Thamar; "I left the door open. Go in. I shall look after the horses."

The king descended from the chariot, and bowing his head, entered the hut. The lamp was still
burning, and shed its dying beams on the two sleeping girls. The Pharaoh caught up Tahoser
in his strong arms and walked towards the door of the hut.

When the priest's daughter awoke, and saw flaming near her face the shining face of the Pharaoh,
she thought at first that it was one of the fancies of her dream transformed; but the air of
night which struck her face soon restored her to the sense of reality. Mad with terror, she
tried to scream, to call for help; the cry remained in her throat,--and then, who would have
helped her against the Pharaoh?

With one bound the King sprang on to his chariot, threw the reins around his back, and pressing
to his breast the half-dead Tahoser, sent his coursers at their top speed towards the Northern
Palace.

Thamar glided like a serpent into the hut, crouched down in her accustomed place, and gazed
with a look almost as tender as a mother's on her dear Ra'hel, who was still sound asleep.

XIII

The draught of cold air, due to the speed of the chariot, soon made Tahoser recover from her
faint. Pressed and crushed against the breast of the Pharaoh, by his two stony arms, her heart
had scarce room to beat, and the hard enamelled collars were making their mark on her heaving
bosom. The horses, whose reins the King slackened by bending towards the front of the car,
rushed furiously forward, the wheels went round like whirlwinds, the brazen plates justled,
the heated axles smoked. Tahoser, terrified, saw vaguely, as in a dream, flash to the right
and left vast masses of buildings, clumps of trees, palaces, temples, pylons, obelisks, colossi,
which the night made more fantastic and terrible. What were the thoughts that filled her mind
during that mad rush? She thought as little as thinks a dove, fluttering in the talons of a
hawk which is carrying it away to its eyrie. Mute terror stupefied her, made her blood run
cold and dulled her feelings. Her limbs hung limp; her will was relaxed like her muscles, and,
had she not been held firmly in the arms of the Pharaoh, she would have slipped and fallen
in a heap on the bottom of the chariot like a piece of stuff which is let drop. Twice she thought
she felt upon her cheek a burning breath and two lips of fire; she did not attempt to turn
away her head, terror had killed modesty in her. When the chariot struck violently against
a stone, a dim instinct of self-preservation made her cling with her hands to the shoulder
of the King and press closer to him; then she let herself go again and leaned with her whole
weight, light though it was, upon those arms which held her.

The chariot entered the avenue of sphinxes, at the end of which rose a giant pylon crowned
with a cornice on which the symbolic globe displayed its wings; the lessening darkness allowed
the priest's daughter to recognise the King's palace. Then despair filled her heart; she struggled,
she strove to free herself from the embrace which held her close; she pressed her frail hands
against the stony breast of the Pharaoh, stiffened out her arms, throwing herself back over
the edge of the chariot. Her efforts were useless, her struggles were vain. Her ravisher brought
her back to his breast with an irresistible, slow pressure, as if he would have driven her
into it. She tried to scream; her lips were closed with a kiss.

Meanwhile the horses in three or four strides reached the pylon, under which they passed at
full gallop, glad to return to the stable, and the chariot rolled into the vast court. The
servants hastened up and sprang to the heads of the horses, whose bits were white with foam.

Tahoser cast a terrified glance around her. High brick walls formed a vast square enclosure
in which rose on the east a palace, on the west a temple, between two great pools, the piscinæ
of the sacred crocodiles. The first rays of the sun, the orb of which was already rising behind
the Arabian mountains, flushed with rosy light the top of the buildings, the lower portions
of which were still plunged in bluish shadows.

There was no hope of flight. The buildings, though in no wise gloomy, had a look of irresistible
strength, of absolute will, of eternal persistence: a world catastrophe alone could have opened
an issue through these thick walls, through these piles of hard sandstone. To overthrow the
pylons built of fragments of mountains, the earth itself would have had to quake; even a conflagration
could only have licked with its fiery tongues those indestructible blocks.

Poor Tahoser did not have at her command such violent means, and she was compelled to allow
herself to be carried like a child by the Pharaoh, who had sprung from his chariot.

Four high columns with palm-leaf capitals formed the propylæum of the palace into which the
king entered, still pressing to his breast the daughter of Petamounoph. When he had passed
through the door, he gently placed his burden on the ground, and seeing Tahoser stagger, he
said to her: "Be reassured. You rule the Pharaoh, and the Pharaoh rules the world."

These were the first words he had spoken to her.

If love followed the dictates of reason, Tahoser would certainly have preferred the Pharaoh
to Poëri. The King was endowed with supreme beauty. His great, clean, regular features seemed
to be chiselled, and not the slightest imperfection could be detected in them. The habit of
command had given to his glance that penetrating gleam which makes divinities and kings so
easily recognisable. His lips, one word from which would have changed the face of the world
and the fate of nations, were of a purple red, like fresh blood upon the blade of a sword,
and when he smiled, they possessed that grace of terrible things which nothing can resist.
His tall, well proportioned, majestic figure presented the nobility of form admired in the
temple statues; and when he appeared solemn and radiant, covered with gold, enamels, and gems,
in the midst of the bluish vapour of the censers, he did not seem to belong to that frail race
which from generation to generation falls like leaves, and is stretched, sticky with bitumen,
in the dark depths of the mummy pits.

What was poor Poëri by the side of this demigod? Nevertheless, Tahoser loved him.

The wise have long since given up attempting to explain the heart of woman. They are masters
of astronomy, astrology, and arithmetic; they know the origin of the world, and can tell where
were the planets at the very moment of creation; they are sure that the moon was then in the
constellation of Cancer, the sun in that of the Lion, Mercury in that of the Virgin, Venus
in the Balance, Mars in the Scorpion, Jupiter in Sagittarius, Saturn in Capricorn; they trace
on papyrus or granite the direction of the celestial ocean, which goes from the east to the
west; they have summed up the number of stars strewn over the blue robe of the Goddess Neith,
and make the sun travel in the lower or the superior hemisphere with the twelve diurnal and
the twelve nocturnal baris under the conduct of the hawk-headed pilot and of Neb Wa, the Lady
of the Bark; they know that in the second half of the month of Tobi, Orion influences the left
ear, and Sirius the heart; but they are absolutely ignorant why a woman prefers one man to
another, a wretched Israelite to an illustrious Pharaoh.

After having traversed several halls with Tahoser, whom he led by the hand, the King sat down
on a seat in the shape of a throne in a superbly decorated room.

Golden stars gleamed in the blue ceiling, and against the pillars which supported the cornice
were placed the statues of kings wearing the pschent, their legs merging into the block of
stone and their arms crossed on their chest, looking into the room with frightful intensity
out of their black-lined eyes. Between every two pillars burned a lamp placed upon a pedestal,
and on the base of the walls was represented a sort of ethnographic procession: the nations
of the four quarters of the world were represented there with their particular faces and their
particular dress.

At the head of the series, guided by Horus the shepherd of the nations, walked the man of men,
the Egyptian, the Rot'en'no with a gentle face, slightly aquiline nose, plaited hair, and his
dark red skin brought out by the whiteness of the loin-cloth; next came the negro or Nahasi,
with his black skin, thick lips, protruding cheekbones and woolly hair; then the Asiatic or
Namou, with yellow flesh-colour, strongly aquiline nose, thick black beard cut to a point,
wearing a striped skirt fringed with tufts; then the European or Tamhou, the least civilised
of all, differing from the others by his white complexion, his red beard and hair, his blue
eyes, an undressed ox-skin cast over his shoulder, and his arms and legs tattooed. The other
panels were filled with various subjects, scenes of war and triumph and hieroglyphic inscriptions.

In the centre of the room, on a table supported by prisoners bound by the elbows, so skilfully
carved that they seemed to live and suffer, bloomed a vast bouquet of flowers whose sweet scent
perfumed the atmosphere.

So in this vast hall, surrounded by the effigies of his ancestors, all things spoke and sang
of the glory of the Pharaoh. The nations of the world walked behind Egypt and acknowledged
her supremacy, and he governed Egypt. Yet the daughter of Petamounoph, far from being dazzled
by this splendour, thought of the rustic villa, of Poëri, and especially of the mean hut of
mud and straw in the Hebrew quarter, where she had left Ra'hel,--Ra'hel, from henceforward
the happy and only spouse of the young Hebrew.

The Pharaoh held the tips of the fingers of Tahoser, who stood before him, and he fixed upon
her his hawk eyes, the eyelids of which never moved. The young girl had no other garment than
the drapery substituted by Ra'hel for the dress which had been soaked during the swim across
the Nile, but her beauty was in no wise impaired. She remained thus, half nude, holding with
one hand the coarse stuff which slipped, and the whole upper portion of her beautiful body
appeared in its golden fairness. When she was adorned with her jewels, one was tempted to regret
that any part of her form should be concealed by her necklaces, her bracelets, and her belts
of gold or of gems; but on seeing her thus devoid of all ornament, admiration was satisfied,
or rather exalted. Certainly many very beautiful women had entered the Pharaoh's harem, but
not one of them comparable to Tahoser; and the eyes of the King flashed such burning glances
that, unable to bear their brilliancy, she was obliged to cast down her eyes.

In her heart, Tahoser was proud of having excited love in the Pharaoh; for who is the woman,
however perfect she may be, who has not some vanity. Yet she would have preferred to follow
the young Hebrew into the desert. The King terrified her, she felt herself dazzled by the splendour
of his face, and her limbs gave way under her.

The Pharaoh noticed her emotion, and made her sit down at his feet on a red cushion adorned
with tufts.

"Oh, Tahoser," he said, kissing her hair, "I love you. When I saw you from the top of my triumphal
palanquin, borne higher than the heads of men by the generals, an unknown feeling entered into
my soul. I, whose every desire is forestalled, desired something; I understood that I was not
everything. Until then I had lived solitary in my almightiness, in the depths of my vast palaces,
surrounded by mere shadows which called themselves women, and who had no more effect upon me
than the painted figures in the frescoes. I heard in the distance, muttering and complaining
low, the nations upon whose heads I wipe my sandals or which I lift by their hair, as I am
represented doing on the symbolical bassi-relievi of the palaces, and in my cold breast, as
strong as that of a basalt god, I never heard the beat of my own heart. It seemed to me that
there was nowhere on earth a being like myself, a being who could move me. In vain I brought
back from my expeditions into foreign lands choice virgins and women famous for their beauty
in their own country; I cast them aside like flowers, after having breathed their scent for
a moment. None inspired me with a desire to see her again. When they were present, I scarce
glanced at them; when they were absent, I immediately forgot them. Twea, Taïa, Amense, Hont-Reché,
whom I have kept to avoid the disgust of having to find others who the next day would have
been as indifferent as themselves, have never been, when in my arms, aught but vain phantoms,
perfumed and graceful forms, beings of another race with whom my nature could not mingle any
more than the leopard can mate with the gazelle, the dweller in the air with the dweller in
the waters. I had come to think that, placed by the gods apart from and above all mortals,
I was never to share either their pains or their joys. Fearful weariness, like that which no
doubt tires the mummies, who, wrapped up in their bands, wait in their caves in the depths
of the hypogea until the soul shall have finished the cycle of migrations,--a fearful weariness
had fallen upon me on my throne; for I often remained with my hands on my knees like a granite
colossus, thinking of the impossible, the infinite, the eternal. How many a time have I thought
of raising the veil of Isis, at the risk of falling blasted at the feet of the goddess. Perhaps,
I said to myself, that mysterious face is the one I have been dreaming of, the one which is
to inspire me with love. If earth refuses me happiness, I shall climb to heaven. But I saw
you; I felt a strange, unaccustomed sensation; I understood that there existed outside myself
a being necessary, imperious, and fatal to me, whom I could not live without, and who possessed
the power of making me unhappy. I was a king, almost a god, and you, O Tahoser, have made of
me a man."

Never, perhaps, had the Pharaoh uttered so long a speech; usually a word, a gesture, a motion
of the eye sufficed to manifest his will, which was immediately divined by a thousand attentive,
restless eyes; performance followed his thought, as the lightning follows the thunder-clap.
But with desire he seemed to have given up his granitic majesty; he spoke and explained himself
like a mortal.

Tahoser was a prey to singular emotion. However much she felt the honour of having inspired
love in the man preferred of Phré, in the favoured of Ammon Ra, the destroyer of nations, in
the terrifying, solemn and superb being upon whom she scarce dared to gaze, she felt no sympathy
for him, and the idea of belonging to him filled her with terror and repulsion. To the Pharaoh
who had carried off her body she could not give her soul, which had remained with Poëri and
Ra'hel; and as the King appeared to await a reply, she said,--

"How is it, O King, that amid all the maids of Egypt your glance should have fallen on me,--on
me whom so many others surpass in beauty, in talent, in gifts of all sorts? How is it that
in the midst of clumps of white, blue, and rose lotus, with open corollas, with delicate scent,
you have chosen the modest blade of grass which nothing marks?"

"I know not, but I know that you alone exist in this world for me, and that I shall make kings'
daughters your servants."

"But suppose I do not love you?" said Tahoser, timidly.

"What care I, if I love you," replied the Pharaoh. "Have not the most beautiful women in the
world thrown themselves down upon my threshold weeping and moaning, tearing their cheeks, beating
their breasts, plucking out their hair, and have they not died imploring a glance of love which
never fell upon them? Never has passion in any one made my heart of brass beat within my stony
breast. Resist me, hate if you will,--you will only be more charming; for the first time an
obstacle will have come in the way of my will, and I shall know how to overcome it."

"But suppose I love another?" continued Tahoser, more boldly.

At this suggestion the eyebrows of the Pharaoh were bent; he violently bit his lower lip, in
which his teeth left white marks, and he pressed to the point of hurting her the fingers of
the maid which he still held. Then he cooled down again, and said in a low, deep voice,--

"When you shall have lived in this palace, in the midst of these splendours, surrounded by
the atmosphere of my love, you will forget everything as does he who eats nepenthe. Your past
life will appear to you like a dream, your former feelings will vanish as incense upon the
coals of the censer. The woman who is loved by the King no longer remembers men. Go, come;
accustom yourself to Pharaonic magnificence; help yourself as you please to my treasures; make
gold flow, heap up gems; order, make, unmake, raise, destroy; be my mistress, my wife, my queen.
I give you Egypt with its priests, its armies, its toilers, its numberless population, its
palaces, its temples and cities. Crumple it up as you would crumple up gauze,--I will win other
kingdoms for you, larger, fairer, and richer. If the world is not sufficient, I will conquer
planets for you, I will dethrone the gods. You are she whom I love; Tahoser, the daughter of
Petamounoph is no more."

XIV

When Ra'hel awoke, she was amazed not to find Tahoser by her side, and cast her glance around
the room, thinking the Egyptian had already risen. Crouching in a corner, her arms crossed
on her knees, her head upon her arms, which formed a bony pillow, Thamar slept,--or rather,
pretended to sleep; for through the long locks of her disordered hair which fell to the ground,
might have been seen her eyes as yellow as those of an owl, gleaming with malicious joy and
satisfied wickedness.

"Thamar," cried Ra'hel, "what has become of Tahoser?"

The old woman, as if startled into wakefulness by the voice of her mistress, slowly uncoiled
her spider-like limbs, rose to her feet, rubbed several times her brown eyelids with the back
of her left hand, yellower than that of a mummy, and said with a well assumed air of astonishment:
"Is she not there?"

"No," replied Ra'hel; "and did I not yet see her place hollowed out on the bed by the side
of my own, and hanging on that peg the gown which she threw off, I could believe that the strange
events of the past night were but an illusion and a dream."

Though she was perfectly well aware of the manner of Tahoser's disappearance, Thamar raised
a piece of the drapery stretched in the corner of the room, as if the Egyptian might have been
concealed behind it. She opened the door of the hut and standing on the threshold minutely
explored the neighbourhood with her glance; then turning towards the interior, she signed negatively
to her mistress.

"It is strange," said Ra'hel, thoughtfully.

"Mistress," said the old woman, drawing near the Israelite, with a gentle, petting tone, "you
know that I disliked the foreign woman."

"You dislike every one, Thamar," replied Ra'hel, smiling.

"Except you, mistress," answered the old woman, placing to her lips one of the young woman's hands.

"I know it. You are devoted to me."

"I never had any children, and sometimes I fancy that I am your mother."

"Good Thamar," said Ra'hel, moved.

"Was I wrong," continued Thamar, "to consider her appearance so strange? Her disappearance
explains it. She said she was Tahoser, the daughter of Petamounoph. She was nothing but a fiend
which took that form to seduce and tempt a child of Israel. Did you see how troubled she was
when Poëri spoke against the idols of wood, stone, and metal, and how difficult it was for
her to say, 'I will try to believe in your God'? It seemed as though the words burnt her lips
like hot coals."

"The tears which fell upon my breast were genuine tears,--a woman's tears," said Ra'hel.

"Crocodiles weep when they want, and hyenas laugh to attract their prey," continued the old
woman. "The evil spirits which prowl at night in the stones and ruins know many a trick and
play every part."

"So, according to you, poor Tahoser was nothing but a phantom raised up by hell?"

"Unquestionably," replied Thamar. "Is it likely that the daughter of the priest Petamounoph
would have fallen in love with Poëri and preferred him to the Pharaoh, who, it is said, loves her?"

Ra'hel, who did not admit that any one in the world was superior to Poëri, did not think this
unlikely.

"If she loved him as much as she said she did, why did she run off when, with your consent,
he accepted her as his second wife? It was the condition that she must renounce the false gods
and adore Jehovah which put to flight that devil in disguise."

"In any case, that devil had a very sweet voice and very tender eyes."

At bottom Ra'hel was perhaps not greatly dissatisfied with the disappearance of Tahoser; she
thus kept wholly to herself the heart which she had been willing to share, and yet she had
the merit of the sacrifice she had made.

Under pretext of going to the market, Thamar went out and started for the King's palace, her
cupidity not having allowed her to forget his promise. She had provided herself with a great
bag of coarse cloth which she proposed to fill with gold.

When she appeared at the palace gate the soldiers did not beat her as they had done the first
day. She enjoyed the king's favour, and the officer of the guard made her enter at once. Timopht
brought her to the Pharaoh.

When he perceived the vile old hag crawling towards his throne like a crushed insect, the King
remembered his promise and gave orders to open one of the granite chambers of the treasury,
and to allow her to take as much gold as she could carry away. Timopht, whom Pharaoh trusted,
and who knew the secret of the lock, opened the stone gate.

The vast mass of gold sparkled in the sunbeams, but the brilliancy of the metal was no brighter
than the glance of the old woman. Her eyes turned yellow and flashed strangely. After a few
moments of dazzled contemplation, she pulled up the sleeves of her patched tunic and bared
her withered arms, on which the muscles stood out like cords, and which were deeply wrinkled
above the elbow; then she opened and closed her curved fingers, like the talons of a griffin,
and sprang at the mass of golden bars with fierce and bestial avidity. She plunged her arms
amid the ingots, moved them, stirred them round, rolled them over, threw them up; her lips
trembled, her nostrils swelled, and down her spine ran convulsive tremors. Intoxicated, mad,
shaken by trepidation and spasmodic laughter, she cast handfuls of gold into her bag, saying,
"More! more! more!" so that soon it was full up to the mouth.

Timopht, amused at the sight, let her have her way, not dreaming that such a skinny spectre
could move so enormous a weight. But Thamar bound the mouth of her sack with a cord, and to
the great surprise of the Egyptian, lifted it on her back. Avarice lent to that broken-down
frame unexpected strength of muscles; all the nerves and fibres of the arms, the neck, the
shoulders, strained to breaking, bore up under a mass of metal which would have made the most
robust Nahasi porter bow down. Her brows bent, like those of an ox when the ploughshare strikes
a stone, Thamar staggered out of the palace, knocking up against the walls, walking almost
on all-fours, for every now and then she put her hands out to save herself from being crushed
under her burden. But at last she got out, and the load of gold was her legitimate property.
Breathless, exhausted, covered with sweat, her back bruised and her fingers cut, she sat down
at the palace gate upon her beloved sack, and never did any seat appear to her so soft. After
a short time, she perceived a couple of Israelites, passing by with a litter on which they
had been bearing a burden. She called them, and promising them a handsome reward, induced them
to take up the sack and to follow her. The Israelites, preceded by Thamar, went down the streets
of Thebes, reached the waste places studded with mud huts and placed the sack in one of them.
Thamar paid them grumblingly the promised reward.

Meanwhile Tahoser had been installed in a splendid apartment, a regal apartment as beautiful
as that of the Pharaoh. Elegant pillars with lotus capitals upbore the starry roof, framed
in by a cornice of blue palm-branches painted upon a golden background. Panels of a tender
lilac-colour with green lines ending in flower buds showed symmetrically on the walls; fine
matting covered the stone slabs of the flooring; sofas, inlaid with plates of metal alternating
with enamels, and covered with black stuffs adorned with red circles, armchairs with lions'
feet, with cushions that fell over the back, stools formed of swans' necks interlaced, piles
of purple leather cushions filled with thistle-down, seats which could hold two persons, tables
of costly woods supported by statues of Asiatic captives,--formed the furniture of the room.

On richly carved pedestals rested tall porcelain vases and great golden bowls, the workmanship
of which was even more precious than the material. One of them with a slender base, was supported
by two horses' heads with fringed hoods and harness. The handles were formed of two lotus stalks
gracefully falling over two rose ornaments; on the cover were ibises with erect ears and sharp
horns, and on the body of the vase were represented gazelles flying from the dogs amid stalks
of papyrus. Another, no less curious, had for cover a monstrous Typhon head, adorned with palms
and grimacing between two vipers. The sides were ornamented with leaves and denticulated bands.

One of the bowls, supported by two figures wearing mitres and dressed in robes with broad borders,
with one hand upbearing the handle and with the other the foot, amazed by its huge size and
the perfection and finish of the ornamentation. The other, smaller and more perfect in shape
perhaps, spread out gracefully; the slender and supple bodies of jackals whose paws rested
upon the edge as if the animals sought to drink, formed the handles. Metal mirrors, framed
with deformed faces, as though to give the beauty who looked into them the pleasure of contrast,
coffers of cedar or sycamore wood painted and ornamented, caskets of enamelled ware, flagons
of alabaster, onyx, and glass, boxes of perfumes,--all these testified to the magnificence
that the Pharaoh lavished upon Tahoser. The precious objects contained in that room were well
worth a kingdom's ransom.

Seated upon an ivory seat, Tahoser looked at the stuffs and gems shown her by nude maidens,
who scattered around the wealth contained in the coffers. Tahoser had just emerged from the
bath, and the aromatic oils with which she had been rubbed, still further softened her delicate,
satin-like skin; her flesh was almost translucent. She was of superhuman beauty, and when she
gazed upon the burnished metal mirror, with her eyes brightened with antimony, she could not
help smiling upon her reflection. A full gauze robe enveloped her fair form without veiling
it. For sole ornament she wore a necklace composed of lapis-lazuli hearts surmounted by crosses,
hanging from a string of gold and pearls.

The Pharaoh appeared on the threshold of the hall. A golden asp bound his thick hair, and a
calasiris, the folds of which, brought forward, formed a point, enclosed his body from the
belt to the knees; a single necklace encircled his unconquered, muscular neck.

On perceiving the King, Tahoser rose from her seat to prostrate herself, but the Pharaoh came
to her, raised her up, and made her sit down.

"Do not thus humble yourself, Tahoser," he said in a gentle voice. "I will you to be my equal.
I am weary of being alone in the universe. Although I am almighty and possess you, I shall
wait until you love me as if I were but a man. Put away all fear; be a woman with a woman's
will, sympathies, antipathies, and caprices. I have never seen one. But if your heart at last
speaks in my favour, hold out to me, when I enter your room, in order that I may know it, the
lotus flower out of your hair."

Though he strove to prevent it, Tahoser threw herself at the knees of the Pharaoh and let fall
a tear upon his bare feet.

"Why is my soul Poëri's?" she said to herself as she resumed her place upon the ivory seat.

Timopht, putting one hand on the ground and the other on his head, entered the room.

"O King," he said, "a mysterious personage seeks to speak to you. His gray beard falls down
to his waist, shining horns emerge from his bare brow, and his eyes shine like fire. An unknown
power precedes him, for all the guards fall back and all the gates open before him. What he
says must be done, and I have come to you in the midst of your pleasures, even were death to
be the punishment of my audacity."

"What is his name?" said the King.

"Mosche," replied Timopht.

XV

The King passed into another hall to receive Mosche, and sat down on a throne, the arms of
which were formed of lions, hung a broad pectoral ornament on his breast, and assumed a pose
of supreme indifference.

Mosche appeared, accompanied by another Hebrew, called Aharon. August though the Pharaoh was,
as he sat on his golden throne, surrounded by his officers and his fan-bearers, within that
high hall with its huge columns, against that background of paintings which depicted the deeds
of his ancestors or his own, Mosche was no less imposing. In him the majesty of age equalled
the majesty of sovereignty. Although he was seventy years old, he seemed endowed with manly
vigour, and nothing in him showed decadence into senility. The wrinkles on his brow and his
cheeks, like the marks of the chisel on the granite, made him venerable without telling his
age. His brown and wrinkled neck was joined to his powerful shoulders by gaunt but still powerful
muscles, and a network of sinewy veins showed upon his hands, which did not tremble as old
men's hands generally do. A soul more energetic than a human soul vivified his body, and on
his face shone in the shadow a strange light. It seemed like the reflection of an invisible
sun. I know not the Lord, neither will I let Israel go."

Aharon confirmed by a nod the demand of Mosche.

"Wherefore do ye, Mosche and Aharon, let the people from their works?" replied the Pharaoh.
"Happily for you I am to-day in a clement humour, for I might have had you beaten with rods,
had your tongues and ears cut off, or thrown you living to the crocodiles. Know, for I tell
you so, there is no other god than Ammon Ra, the supreme and primeval being, at once male and
female; who is his own father and his own mother, whose husband he is also; from whom come
all the other gods which unite heaven to earth and which are but forms of those two obscure
principles. The wise know it, and the priests, who have long studied mysteries in the colleges
and in the temples consecrated to his diverse representations. Do not, therefore, allege another
god of your own invention to move the Hebrews to revolt, and to prevent them from doing their
appointed work. Your pretext of sacrifice is plain,--you wish to flee. Withdraw from before
me, and continue to mould clay for my royal and priestly buildings, for my pyramids, my palaces,
and my walls. Go! I have spoken."

Mosche, seeing that he could not move the Pharaoh's heart, and that if he insisted he would
excite his wrath, withdrew in silence, followed by Aharon in dismay.

"I have obeyed the Lord God," said Mosche to his companion when they had crossed the pylon,
"but the Pharaoh remains as insensible as if I had been speaking to those granite figures seated
upon thrones at the palace gates, or to those idols with heads of dogs, monkeys, or hawks to
which the priests burn incense within the depths of the sanctuaries. What shall we reply to
the people when they question us on the result of our mission?"

The Pharaoh, fearing lest the Hebrews should bethink themselves of throwing off their yoke
in accordance with the suggestions of Mosche, made them work more severely than before, and
refused them straw to make their bricks. Thenceforth the children of Israel spread throughout
Egypt, plucking the stubble and cursing their tyrants; for they were very unhappy, and they
said that the advice of Mosche had increased their misery.

One day Mosche and Aharon reappeared in the palace, and once again called upon the King to
let the Hebrews go to sacrifice unto the Lord in the wilderness.

"What proof have I," replied the Pharaoh, "that it is the Lord who sends you to me to tell
me these things, and that you are not, as I fancy, vile impostors?"

Aharon threw down his wand before the King, and the wood began to twist, to curl, to grow scales,
to move its head and tail, to rise up, and to utter horrible hissings: the wand had been changed
into a serpent. Its rings grated over the flags, it swelled its hood, it whipped out its forked
tongue, and rolling its red eyes, seemed to select the victim which it was about to bite.

The officers and servants ranged around the throne remained motionless and mute with terror
at the sight of this prodigy; the bravest half drew their swords.

But the Pharaoh was in no wise moved. A disdainful smile flitted over his lips, and he said,--

"Is that all you can do? The miracle is slight, and the prodigy poor. Send for my wise men,
my sorcerers and my magicians."

They came. They were men of venerable and mystic appearance, with shaven heads, wearing sandals
of byblos, dressed in long linen robes, holding in their hands wands on which were engraved
hieroglyphs. They were yellow and dried up like mummies by night watches, study, and austerity;
the fatigue entailed by successive initiations could be read upon their faces, in which their
eyes alone seemed to retain life.

They drew up in a line before the throne of the Pharaoh without paying the least attention
to the serpent, which wriggled, crawled, and hissed.

"Can you," said the King, "change your wands into reptiles as Aharon has done?"

"O King, is it for such child's play," said the oldest of the band, "that you have sent for
us from the recesses of the secret chambers where under the starry ceilings, by the light of
the lamps, we are meditating, bending over undecipherable papyri, kneeling before the hieroglyphic
stelæ with their mysterious, deep meanings, forcing the secrets of nature, calculating the
power of numbers, bearing our trembling hand to the border of the veil of the great Isis? Let
us go back, for life is short, and the wise man has scarce time to tell to another the word
which he has learned. Let us go back to our laboratories. The merest juggler, the first charmer
of serpents who plays the flute on the public squares, will suffice to satisfy you."

"Ennana, do what I wish," said the Pharaoh to the chief of the wise men and the magicians.

Old Ennana turned towards the band of sages, who remained standing motionless, their minds
already lost again in deep meditations.

"Cast down every man your rod as you whisper the magic word."

The rods fell together with a sharp sound upon the stone slabs, and the wise men resumed their
perpendicular attitude like the statues placed against the pillars of the tombs. They did not
even deign to look at their feet to see if the miracle were being wrought, so sure were they
of the power of their formula.

And then was seen a strange and horrible sight. The rods twisted like branches of green wood
in the fire, the ends flattened out into the shape of heads, thinned out into the shape of
tails. Some remained smooth, others became scaly, according to the kind of serpent. All these
swarmed and crawled and hissed, interlaced and knotted into hideous knots. There were vipers
bearing the mark of the spearhead upon their low brows, horned snakes with menacing protuberances,
greenish, viscous hydras, asps with movable fangs, yellow trigonocephalæ, orvets or blind serpents,
crotalidæ with short heads, black skins, and rattles on their tails, amphisbena, which can
glide forward or backward, boas opening mouths wide enough to swallow an ox, serpents with
eyes surrounded with discs like those of owls;--the pavement of the hall was covered with them.

Tahoser, who shared the throne of the Pharaoh, raised her beautiful bare feet and pulled them
back under her, pale with terror.

"Well," said the Pharaoh to Mosche, "you see that the skill of my magicians equals, and even
surpasses yours; their rods have turned into serpents like that of Aharon. Invent another prodigy
if you seek to convince me."

Mosche stretched forth his hand, and Aharon's serpent glided towards the twenty-four reptiles.
The struggle was not long; it soon had swallowed the hideous things, real or seeming creations
of the wise men of Egypt. Then it resumed its former wand shape.

This result seemed to amaze Ennana. He bent his head, thought for a moment, and said, like
a man who perceives something: "I shall find the word and the sign. I have interpreted wrongly
the fourth hieroglyph of the fifth perpendicular line in which is the spell of serpents. O
King, do you still need us?" said the chief of the wise men aloud. "I long to resume the reading
of Hermes Trismegistus, which contains more important secrets than these sleight-of-hand tricks."

The Pharaoh signed to the old man that he might withdraw, and the silent procession returned
to the depths of the palace.

The King re-entered the harem with Tahoser. The priest's daughter, terrified and still trembling
at these prodigies, knelt down before him and said: "O Pharaoh, do you not fear to anger by
your resistance the unknown god who has ordered these Israelites to go a three days' journey
into the desert to sacrifice unto him? Let Mosche and his Hebrews depart to fulfil their rites,
for perhaps the Lord, as they call him, will afflict the land of Egypt and bring death upon us."

"What! does that reptile jugglery frighten you?" replied the Pharaoh. "Did you not see that
my wise men produced serpents with their wands?"

"Yes, but Aharon's devoured them, and that is an ill omen."

"What matters it? Am I not the favourite of Phré, the preferred of Ammon Ra? Have I not under
my sandals the effigies of conquered nations? With one breath I shall sweep away when I please
the whole of that Hebrew race, and I shall see if their god can protect them."

"Beware, Pharaoh," said Tahoser, who remembered Poëri's words about the power of Jehovah. "Do
not allow pride to harden your heart. Mosche and Aharon terrify me; they must be supported
by a more powerful god, for they braved your wrath."

"If their god is so powerful," said the Pharaoh, answering the fear expressed by Tahoser, "would
he leave them thus captives, humiliated and bowing like beasts of burden under the harvest
labour? Let us forget these vain prodigies and live in peace. 

It follows from the above and still be clearer if I extend the size as requested the case that
the very nature of things, and without any one complaining about it, or do you blame a chapter
of our century, or the past, and now men, or of that time, the most universally respected, loved
and revered is money, and therefore, the one he owns. Even the same heavenly souls, pure love
of love, glory and all the good and holy love of money also go as a means excellent success
with other crushes those ethereal.

The average man loves money more than life. Any person, almost sympathetic that is, secure account with
a few friends who venture for her life, which would sacrifice his life. Many take the field
in a duel to the death to defend Tell a friend! Almost nobody, however, would sacrifice his wealth
by a friend, or the twenty or hundredth of its volume. It's a drowning man, is another burning
alive a burning house, and this is in honor of humanity, who seldom lack for saving ventures,
be thrown into the raging waves or flames. However, the saving hero perhaps a few days earlier
had refused to give alms to the real two-person saved now so generously. Conversely, the most
graceful ever consider the sacrifice that is made for them a small sum of money, that of life
itself. And this for a thousand reasons very fair. Life is sacrificed or exposed to anything,
the money does not. No ragamuffin not have a life exposed as any other life, but not everyone
has money display or sacrifice. The tightrope walker, the tamer of beasts, the bricklayer standing
on a scaffold, the miner who enters a mine unsafe, in short, almost all men risk their lives
for anything, for a miserable wage, for a paltry amount of money. What did Edgardo more by
Lucia di Lammermoor, which became more D. Suero de Quinones by the lady of your thoughts that
he can do and makes every moment, with less noise, the last lost, to earn a few pesetas? Therefore,
a considerable amount of pesetas worth more than the courage of Edgardo and the gallantry of
D. Serum.

It is clear that the poor, but can love, can not express your love
so clearly and as bright as the rich.

So the rich are generally more beloved than the poor, even by disinterested women.

The money also gives intrinsic merit, and have him not go away, you
will decrease or blight.

The Money gives good humor, politeness, good manners, and, as would a diplomat, fluent fine.
Nothing, however, binds and roughening rather than poverty. The poor are timid and shrunken, or
go always done a beast. Every word in the mouths of the rich is a joke, where the same confidence
that their thanks is going to be laughed and applauded, giving encouragement and inspiration,
to be funny. The awe with which everyone will look, taste that all you hear, makes looks funny, but it
is not. But it is, and no doubt it is. I, for example, I heard from a man very rich all over
rude and dirty beads referring the farmhands of my land, and that not even the lure of novelty
for me or should have for anyone, and yet I laughed like a fool, I have done very much, and I
have found attic full in the mouth of the Lord. I also believe that indeed they were, because
I did not move to reírlos or celebrate with false laughter, or by interest. Security superiority, quiet
magnetism that having money brings, produced this phenomenon.

Not surprising, then, that the rich are loved and admired. On the
day of love more disinterested than before.

Never, for example, fewer men have been held by women at this time, the exception under the legal
form, though awkward, the coburguismo. In other ages it was common, almost universal, and not bad
watched the illegitimate coburguismo male, from Cyrus the Younger to Epiaxa, Queen of Cilicia,
woman is to believe and buxom, that hero who drew a lot of money, to the gallant knights of
the court of Louis XIV and Louis XV.

What is the female coburguismo, legitimate or illegitimate, is still
at an early age as the world from Raab and Delilah to the graceful
and elegant Cora.

This is more excusable coburguismo than the male. Lope de Vega he apologized saying

There was fierce poor Lucretia That, to give Don Tarquin thousand
reais She was softer and less silly.

      
    
    And Ariosto, with the caption precious dog, inserted in Orlando, I
apologize more.

I do not apologize, but I apologize, but not only by the selfless love and admiration sincere
infuses the rich man, and not a beast, even in the choicest souls and nobles.


"Remain," said the Pharaoh.

They resumed their impassible countenances.

"Have you no other proof of your mission than that? My wise men, you see, imitate your wonders
very well."

Without appearing discouraged by the ironical words of the King, Mosche replied: "In seven
days' time, if you have not made up your mind to let Israel go into the desert to sacrifice
to the Lord according to their rites, I shall return and perform another wonder before you."

At the end of seven days Mosche reappeared. He spoke to his servant Aharon the words of the Lord:--

"Stretch out thine hand with thy rod over the streams, over the rivers, and over the ponds,
and cause the frogs to come up upon the land of Egypt."

As soon as Aharon had done as he was bidden, millions of frogs emerged from the canals, the
rivers, and the marshes; they covered the fields and the roads, they hopped upon the steps
of the temples and the palaces, they invaded the sanctuaries and the most secret chambers;
legions of other frogs followed those which had first appeared; they were found in the houses,
in the kneading-troughs, in the ovens, in the coffers; no one could step anywhere without crushing
some. As if moved by springs, they jumped between peoples' legs, to the right and the left,
forward and backward; as far as the eye could reach, they were seen rippling, hopping, jumping
past one another, for they already lacked room, and their numbers grew, their ranks became
denser, they formed heaps here and there; innumerable green backs turned the countryside into
a sort of animated green meadow, on which their yellow eyes shone like flowers. The animals,--horses,
asses, goats,--terrified and startled, fled across the fields, but everywhere came upon the
loathsome swarms.

The Pharaoh, who from the threshold of his palace beheld this rising tide of frogs with weariness
and disgust, crushed as many as he could with the end of his sceptre and pushed back the others
with his curved sandals, but his labour was lost; more frogs came no one knew whence, and took
the places of the dead, swarming more than they did, croaking more than they did, more loathsome,
more uncomfortable, bolder, showing the vertebræ on their backs, staring at him with their
big, round eyes, spreading out their webbed feet, wrinkling the white skin of their throats.
The vile animals seemed endowed with intelligence, and they formed denser shoals around the
King than anywhere else.

The swarming flood grew and still grew: on the knees of the colossi, on the cornices of the
palaces, on the backs of the sphinxes, on the entablatures of the temples, on the shoulders
of the gods, on the pyramidions of the obelisks, the hideous reptiles, with swollen backs and
indrawn feet, had taken up their places. The ibises, which at first had rejoiced at this unexpected
treat, and had lanced them with their long beaks, now alarmed by this mighty invasion fled
to the upper regions of the sky, snapping their long bills.

Aharon and Mosche triumphed. Ennana, having been summoned, was sunk in thought; his finger,
placed upon his bald brow, his eyes half-closed, he seemed to be seeking within his memory
for a forgotten magic formula.

The Pharaoh, somewhat uneasy, turned towards him. "Well, Ennana, have you lost your mind by
dint of thought? Is this wonder beyond the reach of your wisdom?"

"In no wise, O King; but when a man is engaged in measuring the infinite and calculating eternity
and in spelling out the incomprehensible, it may happen that he does not at once recall the
odd word which rules reptiles, makes them live or destroys them. Watch! all this vermin is
about to vanish."

The old magician waved his wand and whispered a few words; in an instant the fields, the squares,
the roads, the quays along the stream, the streets in the city, the courts of the palaces,
the rooms of the houses, were cleansed of their croaking guests, and restored to their primitive
condition.

The King smiled, proud of the power of his magician.

"It is not enough to have broken the spell of Aharon," said Ennana; "I shall repeat it."

Ennana waved his wand in the opposite direction and muttered the contrary formula. Immediately
the frogs reappeared in greater numbers than before, leaping and croaking. In a twinkling the
whole land was covered with them, and then Aharon stretched out his rod, and the Egyptian magician
was unable to dispel the invasion called up by his enchantment. In vain he spoke the mysterious
words, the incantation had lost its power. The bands of wise men withdrew, pursued by the loathsome
scourge, and the brows of the Pharaoh were bent with anger, but he hardened his heart and would
not grant the prayer of Mosche; his pride strove to struggle and to fight against the unknown
God of Israel.

However, unable to get rid of the terrible reptiles, Pharaoh promised Mosche, if he would intercede
for him with his God, to grant the Hebrews permission to go into the desert to sacrifice.

The frogs died or returned to the waters, but the Pharaoh hardened his heart, and in spite
of the gentle remonstrances of Tahoser, he did not keep his promise.

Then was let loose upon Egypt a multitude of scourges and plagues. A fierce warfare was waged
between the wise men and the two Hebrews whose wonders they reproduced. Mosche changed all
the dust in Egypt into lice; Ennana did the same. Mosche took two handfuls of ashes of the
furnace and sprinkled them toward the heaven in the sight of the Pharaoh, and immediately they
became a boil breaking forth with blains upon man and upon beast among the Egyptians, but not
upon the Hebrews.

"Imitate that wonder!" cried the Pharaoh, beside himself with anger, and as red as if he were
standing in front of a fiery furnace, as he addressed himself to the chief of the wise men.

"It would be useless," replied the old man, in a tone of discouragement. "The finger of the
Unknown is in all this; our vain formulæ cannot prevail against that mysterious power. Submit,
and let us return to our sanctuaries to study this new god, this Lord, who is more powerful
than Ammon Ra, Osiris, and Typhon. The learning of Egypt has been overcome, the riddle of the
sphinx cannot be answered, and the vast mystery of the great Pyramid covers nothingness only."

As the Pharaoh still refused to let the Hebrews go, all the cattle of the Egyptians were smitten
with death; the Israelites lost not a single head.

A wind from the south arose and blew all night long, and in the morning when day dawned, a
vast red cloud concealed the whole of the heavens. Through the dun-coloured fog the sun shone
red like a buckler in the forge, and seemed to have lost its beams. The cloud was different
from other clouds, it was a living cloud; the noise of its wings was heard; it alighted on
the earth, not in the shape of great drops of rain, but in shoals of rose, yellow, and green
grasshoppers, more numerous than the grains of sand in the Libyan desert. They followed each
other in swarms like the straw blown about by the storm; the air was darkened; they filled
up the ditches, the ravines, the streams; they put out by their mere mass the fires lighted
to destroy them; they struck against obstacles and then heaped up and overcame them. If a man
opened his mouth, he breathed one in; they found their way into the folds of the clothing,
into the hair, into the nostrils; their dense columns made chariots turn back; they overthrew
the solitary passer-by and soon covered him. Their formidable army, springing and flying, marched
over Egypt from the Cataracts to the Delta, over an immense breadth of country, destroying
the grass, reducing the trees to the condition of skeletons, devouring plants to the roots,
leaving behind but a bare earth trodden down like a threshing-floor.

At the request of the Pharaoh Mosche made the scourge cease. An extremely violent west wind
carried all the grasshoppers into the Sea of Weeds; but the Pharaoh's obstinate heart, harder
than brass, porphyry, or basalt, would not relent.

Hail, a scourge unknown to Egypt, fell from Heaven amid blinding lightning and deafening thunder,
in enormous stones, cutting, bruising, breaking everything, mowing down the grain as if with
a scythe. Then black, opaque, horrifying darkness, in which lights were extinguished as in
the depths of the airless passages, spread its heavy clouds over the land of Egypt, so fair,
so luminous, so golden under its azure sky, where the night is clearer than the daytime in
other climes. The terrified people, believing themselves already shrouded in the impenetrable
darkness of the sepulchre, groped their way or sat down by the propylæa, uttering plaintive
cries and tearing their clothes.

One night, a night of terror and of horror, a spectre flew across the whole of Egypt, entering
every house the door of which was not marked with red, and the first-born of the males died,
the son of the Pharaoh as well as the son of the meanest hind; yet the King, notwithstanding
all these dread signs, would not yield.

He remained within the recesses of his palace, fierce, silent, gazing at the body of his son
stretched out upon the funeral couch with the jackals' feet, and heedless of the tears of Tahoser
which wetted his hand.

Mosche stood upon the threshold of the room without any one having introduced him, for all
the servants had fled hither and thither; and he repeated his demand with imperturbable serenity.

"Go," said Pharaoh at last, "and sacrifice unto your God as you please."

Tahoser threw herself on the King's neck, and said to him, "Now I love you, for you are a man,
and not a god of granite."

XVII

The Pharaoh did not answer Tahoser; he gazed with a sombre eye upon the body of his first-born
son; his untamed pride rebelled, even as he yielded. In his heart he did not believe in the
Lord, and he explained away the scourges which had smitten Egypt by attributing them to the
magic power of Mosche and Aharon, which was greater than that of his magicians. The thought
of yielding exasperated his violent, fierce soul.

But even had he wished to retain the Israelites, his terrified people would not have allowed
it. The Egyptians, dreading to die, would all have driven out the foreigners who were the cause
of their ills and suffering. They kept away from them with superstitious terror, and when the
great Hebrew passed, followed by Aharon, the bravest fled, fearing some new prodigy, and they
said, "Is not the rod of his companion about to turn into a serpent again and coil itself around
us?"

Had Tahoser then forgotten Poëri when she threw her arms around the Pharaoh's neck? In no wise;
but she felt, springing up within the King's obstinate soul, projects of vengeance and of extermination;
she feared massacres in which would have fallen the young Hebrew and the gentle Ra'hel,--a
general destruction, which this time would have changed the waters of the Nile into real blood;
and she strove to turn away the King's wrath by her caresses and gentle words.

The funeral procession came for the body of the young prince, to carry it to the Memnonia quarter,
where it was to undergo the preparation for embalming, which lasts seventy days. The Pharaoh
saw the body depart with a gloomy look, and he said, as if filled with a melancholy presentiment,--

"Now have I no longer a son, O Tahoser. If I die, you will be Queen of Egypt."

"Why speak of death?" said the priest's daughter; "years will follow years without leaving
a trace of their passage upon your robust body, and generations will fall around you like the
leaves around a tree which remains standing."

"Have I not been vanquished,--I who am invincible?" replied the Pharaoh. "Of what use are the
bassi-relievi of the temples and the palaces which represent me armed with a scourge and a
sceptre, driving my war chariot over bodies, and dragging by their hair subject nations, if
I am obliged to yield to the spells of a foreign magician,--if the gods to whom I have raised
so many vast temples, built for eternity, do not defend me against the unknown god of that
low race? The prestige of my power is forever gone; my wise men, reduced to silence, abandon
me; my people murmur against me. I am only a mighty simulacrum. I willed, and I could not perform.
You were right when you said just now, Tahoser, that I am a man. I have come down to the level
of men. But since you love me now, I shall try to forget; I shall wed you when the funeral
ceremonies are over."

Fearing lest the Pharaoh should recall his word, the Hebrews were getting ready for departure,
and soon their cohorts started, led by a cloud of smoke during the day and a pillar of fire
by night. They took their way through the sandy wastes that lie between the Nile and the Sea
of Weeds, avoiding the tribes which might have opposed their passage. One after another, the
Hebrew tribes defiled in front of the copper statue made by the magicians, which possessed
the property of stopping escaping slaves, but this time the spell, which had been invincible
for centuries, failed to work; the Lord had destroyed it. The vast multitude advanced slowly,
covering the land with its flocks, its beasts of burden laden with the riches borrowed from
the Egyptians, dragging the enormous baggage of a nation which is suddenly migrating. The human
eye could see neither the head nor the tail of the column, which disappeared on either horizon
in a cloud of dust. If any one had sat down by the roadside to see pass the whole procession,
he would have seen the sun rise and set more than once. Men came and came and came always.
The sacrifice to the Lord was a vain pretext; Israel was leaving the land of Egypt forever,
and the mummy of Yusouf, in its painted and gilded case, was carried along on the shoulders
of bearers who were relieved at regular intervals.

So the Pharaoh became very wroth indeed, and resolved to pursue the fleeing Hebrews. He ordered
six hundred war chariots to be prepared, called together his commanders, bound around his body
his broad crocodile-leather belt, filled the two quivers in his car with arrows and javelins,
drew on his wrist his brazen bracelet which deadens the vibration of the cord, and started,
followed by a nation of soldiers. Furious and formidable, he urged his horses to their topmost
speed, and behind him the six hundred chariots sounded with the noise of brass like earthly
thunder. The foot-soldiers hastened on, but they were unable to keep up with his impetuous speed.

Often the Pharaoh was obliged to stop and await the rest of his army. During these halts he
struck with his fist the edge of his chariot, stamped with impatience, and ground his teeth.
He bent towards the horizon, seeking to perceive, behind the sand whirled by the wind, the
fleeing tribes of the Hebrews, and raged at the thought that every hour increased the interval
which separated them. Had not his officers held him back, he would have driven straight before
him at the risk of finding himself single-handed against a whole people.

They were no longer traversing the green valley of Egypt, but plains varied with many changing
hills and barred with undulations like the surface of the sea; the framework of the land was
visible through the thin soil. Jagged rocks, broken into all sorts of shapes, as if giant animals
had trampled them under foot when the earth was still in a condition of mud, on the day when
it emerged from chaos, broke the stretches here and there, and relieved from time to time by
their abrupt breaks the flat horizon-line which merged into that of the sky in a zone of reddish
mist. At vast distances grew palm trees, outspreading their dusty leaves near some spring,
frequently dried up, and in the mud of which the thirsty horses plunged their bloodshot nostrils.

But the Pharaoh, insensible to the rain of fire which fell from the white-hot heavens, at once
gave the signal for departure, and horsemen and footmen started again on the march. Bodies
of oxen or beasts of burden lying on either side, with spirals of vultures sweeping around
above them, marked the passage of the Hebrews, and prevented the angry King from losing their
track.

A swift army, practised to marching, goes faster than a migrating people which drags with it
women, children, old men, baggage, and tents; so the distance was rapidly diminishing between
the Egyptian troops and the Israelite tribes.

It was near Pi-ha'hiroth that the Egyptians came up with the Hebrews. The tribes were camped
on the shore, but when the people saw shining in the sun the golden chariot of the Pharaoh,
followed by his war chariots and his army, they uttered a mighty shout of terror, and began
to curse Mosche, who had led them to destruction.

In point of fact their situation was desperate: in front of the Hebrews was the line of battle,
behind them the deep sea. The women rolled on the ground, tearing their clothes, pulling at
their hair, beating their breasts.

"Why did you not leave us in Egypt? Slavery is better than death, and you have led us into
the desert to die. Were you afraid that we should not have sepulchres enough?"

Thus yelled the multitudes, furious with Mosche, who remained impassible. The bolder took up
their arms and prepared to defend themselves, but the confusion was frightful, and the war
chariots, when they charged through that compact mass, would certainly make an awful slaughter.

Mosche stretched out his hand over the sea, after having called upon the name of the Lord,
and then took place a wonder which no magician could have repeated; there arose an east wind
of startling violence which blew through the waters of the Sea of Weeds like the share of a
giant plough, throwing to right and left briny mountains crowned with crests of foam. Divided
by the impetuosity of that irresistible wind, which would have swept away the pyramids like
grains of dust, the waters rose like liquid walls and left free between them a broad way which
could be traversed dry shod. Through their translucency, as behind thick glass, were seen marine
monsters twisting and squirming, terrified at being surprised by daylight in the mysterious
depths of the abyss.

The Hebrew tribes rushed through this miraculous issue, forming a human torrent that flowed
between two steep banks of green waters. An innumerable race marked with two millions of black
dots the livid bottom of the gulf, and impressed its feet upon mud which the belly of the leviathans
alone had rayed; and the terrible wind still blew, passing over the heads of the Hebrews, whom
it would have thrown to the ground like grain, and keeping back by its breath the heap of roaring
waters. God save us from this great temptation to avoid the note of fools and soon!
God forbid women honored this great temptation to avoid the note lack of charm and sexy!

Out of these excellent and sublime of our being, there is hardly another human quality measure
that does not have the money. Science and poetry Speculative subtract high only to that measure.
Or speculative science, poetry or higher, are usually available to the masses. The wise and famous
poet can seldom comfort of being poor, they are. Lofty thoughts, and finesse and delicacy of
style, are items that few know estimate. The glory is almost always late for this race of men.
Few similar a loss to understand his worth. So will his fame spreads and to accrue by authority, contested
and often contradicted, and so slowly and deliberately, the sage and The poet often die without
the benefit of that respect and even worship taxed later to his memory.

The same wise, and especially the poet, critic excellent as it is,
may console themselves with awareness and security of your worth,
other men unknown or denied.

Do not know fixed point if the trial that are about themselves is distorted by self-love.

A work of genius is very difficult to judge, and the good reputation
that must be acquired a few subjects understood that manage to impose
their opinion, sometimes after many years when not centuries.

The other men undergo this review out of laziness, or because having already dead author of
the work, they care little to be celebrated and praised. The idea that the reputation of that author
is in honor of the nation or humanity as a whole contributes to that contained by certain
selfishness, are few men to throw to destroy it. Moreover, the glory of the great writers
often posthumously and extremely vain. Of every thousand people mentioning, for example, Homer
as the first epic poet, ten at best, in civilized countries, I have read, and of these ten,
nine were bored or asleep reading to him: one was useful perhaps of those beauties and excellences.

Poetry,
then, in its highest sense and virtue in its highest sense, has only reward in itself, in creating
the ideal, the determination and debugging of beauty, which is low, mixed with foreign elements
and fleeting in the world and whom the poet away and subtracted from
the ugly, and gives immortal life, in order to enjoy her the few souls
who by his own beauty are able to understand.

Understood, however, that unless the sublime arch-mentioned exceptions, nothing is more false
in a sense that this honor and profit that do not fit in a bag. By contrast, when the public
does not honor it if not rich, and always enriched when honor.

The more or less of enrichment depends on the circumstances that have nothing to do with honor.
In countries rich and prosperous, good poet, the condition of his genius, is popular and famous,
is also rich. And beyond the respect due to him, Adam Smith was wrong to assume the comedians,
singers and dancers, they earned a lot of money in compensation of decorum they lost in their
office, which, if more honest, more people would be exercised by business, and this competition
would lower the price. The above artists are much better regarded in the day time of Adam Smith,
not so many good, or sell cheap services. They sell expensive, because there are few that are
suitable for them, and because way to pay is given to the shortage persists, load sharing among many
people.

The soul of the dead woman, led by two funeral genii, the one hostile, the other favourable,
was bowing before Osiris, the great judge of the dead, seated on his throne, wearing the pschent,
the conventional beard on the chin, and a whip in his hand. Farther on, the dead woman's actions,
good or bad, represented by a pot of flowers and a rough piece of stone, were being weighed
in scales. A long line of judges, with heads of lions, hawks, or jackals, were awaiting in
hieratic attitudes the result of the weighing before delivering judgment. Below this painting
were inscribed the prayers of the funeral ritual and the confession of the dead, who did not
own to her faults, but stated, on the contrary, those she had not committed,--"I have not been
guilty of murder, or of theft, or of adultery," etc. Another inscription contained the genealogy
of the woman, both on the father's and on the mother's side. I do not transcribe here the series
of strange names, the last of which is that of Nes Khons, the lady enclosed in the case, where
she believed herself sure of rest while awaiting the day on which her soul would, after many
trials, be reunited to its well-preserved body, and enjoy supreme felicity with its own flesh
and blood; a broken hope, for death is as disappointing as life.

The work of unrolling the bandages began; the outer envelope, of stout linen, was ripped open
with scissors. A faint, delicate odour of balsam, incense, and other aromatic drugs spread
through the room like the odour of an apothecary's shop. The end of the bandage was then sought
for, and when found, the mummy was placed upright to allow the operator to move freely around
her and to roll up the endless band, turned to the yellow colour of écru linen by the palm
wine and other preserving liquids.

Strange indeed was the appearance of the tall rag-doll, the armature of which was a dead body,
moving so stiffly and awkwardly with a sort of horrible parody of life, under the hands that
were stripping it, while the bandages rose in heaps around it. Sometimes the bandages held
in place pieces of stuff like fringed serviettes intended to fill hollows or to support the shape.

Pieces of linen, cut open in the middle, had been passed over the head and, fitted to the shoulders,
fell down over the chest. All these obstacles having been removed, there appeared a sort of
veil like coarse India muslin, of a pinkish colour, the soft tone of which would have delighted
a painter. It appears to me that the dye must have been anatto, unless the muslin, originally
red, turned rose-colour through the action of the balsam and of time. Under the veil there
was another series of bandages, of finer linen, which bound the body more closely with their
innumerable folds. Our curiosity was becoming feverish, and the mummy was being turned somewhat
quickly. A Hoffmann or an Edgar Poe could have found here a subject for one of his weird tales.
It so happened that a sudden storm was lashing the windows with heavy drops of rain that rattled
like hail; pale lightnings illumined on the shelves of the cupboards the old yellowed skulls
and the grimacing death's-heads of the Anthropological Museum; while the low rolling of the
thunder formed an accompaniment to the waltz of Nes Khons, the daughter of Horus and Rouaa,
as she pirouetted in the impatient hands of those who were unwrapping her.

The mummy was visibly growing smaller in size, and its slender form showed more and more plainly
under its diminishing wrappings. A vast quantity of linen filled the room, and we could not
help wondering how a box which was scarcely larger than an ordinary coffin had managed to hold
it all. The neck was the first portion of the body to issue from the bandages; it was covered
with a fairly thick layer of naphtha which had to be chiselled away. Suddenly, through the
black remains of the natron, there flashed on the upper part of the breast a bright gleam of
gold, and soon there was laid bare a thin sheet of metal, cut out into the shape of the sacred
hawk, its wings outspread, its tail fanlike like that of eagles in heraldry. Upon this bit
of gold--a funeral jewel not rich enough to tempt body-snatchers--had been written with a reed
and ink a prayer to the gods, protectors of the tombs, asking that the heart and the visceræ
of the dead should not be removed far from her body. A beautiful microscopic hawk, which would
have made a lovely watch-charm, was attached by a thread to a necklace of small plates of blue
glass, to which was hung also a sort of amulet in the shape of a flail, made of turquoise-blue
enamel. Some of the plates had become semi-opaque, no doubt owing to the heat of the boiling
bitumen which had been poured over them, and then had slowly cooled.

So far, of course, nothing unusual had been found; in mummy cases there are often discovered
numbers of these small trifles, and every curiosity shop is full of similar blue enamelled-ware
figures; but we now came upon an unexpected and touchingly graceful detail. Under each armpit
of the dead woman had been placed a flower, absolutely colourless, like plants which have been
long pressed between the leaves of a herbarium, but perfectly preserved, and to which a botanist
could readily have assigned a name. Were they blooms of the lotus or the persea? No one of
us could say. This find made me thoughtful. Who was it that had put these poor flowers there,
like a supreme farewell, at the moment when the beloved body was about to disappear under the
first rolls of bandages? Flowers that are three thousand years old, so frail and yet so eternal,
make a strange impression upon one.

There was also found amid the bandages a small fruit-berry, the species of which it is difficult
to determine. Perhaps it was a berry of the nepenthe, which brought oblivion. On a bit of stuff,
carefully detached, was written within a cartouche the name of an unknown king belonging to
a dynasty no less forgotten. This mummy fills up a vacant place in history and tells of a new
Pharaoh.

The face was still hidden under its mask of linen and bitumen, which could not be easily detached,
for it had been firmly fixed by an indefinite number of centuries. Under the pressure of the
chisel a portion gave way, and two white eyes with great black pupils shone with fictitious
life between brown eyelids. They were enamelled eyes, such as it was customary to insert in
carefully prepared mummies. The clear, fixed glance, gazing out of the dead face, produced
a terrifying effect; the body seemed to behold with disdainful surprise the living beings that
moved around it. The eyebrows showed quite plainly upon the orbit, hollowed by the sinking
of the flesh. The nose, I must confess,--and in this respect Nes Khons was less pretty than
Tahoser,--had been turned down to conceal the incision through which the brain had been drawn
from the skull, and a leaf of gold had been placed on the mouth as the seal of eternal silence.
The hair, exceedingly fine, silky, and soft, dressed in light curls, did not fall below the
tops of the ears, and was of that auburn tint so much prized by Venetian women. It looked like
a child's hair dyed with henna, as one sees it in Algeria. I do not think that this colour
was the natural one; Nes Khons must have been dark like other Egyptians, and the brown tone
was doubtless produced by the essences and perfumes of the embalmer.

Little by little the body began to show in its sad nudity. The reddish skin of the torso, as
the air came in contact with it, assumed a bluish bloom, and there was visible on the side
the cut through which had been drawn the entrails, and from which escaped, like the sawdust
of a ripped-up doll, the sawdust of aromatic wood mixed with resin in grains that looked like
colophony. The arms were stretched out, and the bony hands with their gilded nails imitated
with sepulchral modesty the gesture of the Venus of Medici. The feet, slightly contracted by
the drying up of the flesh and the muscles, seemed to have been shapely and small, and the
nails were gilded like those of the hand.

What was she, after all, this Nes Khons, daughter of Horus and Rouaa, called Lady in her epitaph?
Young or old, beautiful or ugly? It would be difficult to say. She is now not much more than
a skin covering bones, and it is impossible to discover in the dry, sharp lines the graceful
contours of Egyptian women, such as we see them depicted in temples, palaces, and tombs. But
is it not a surprising thing, one that seems to belong to the realm of dreams, to see on a
table, in still appreciable shape, a being which walked in the sunshine, which lived and loved
five hundred years before Moses, two thousand years before Jesus Christ? For that is the age
of the mummy which the caprice of fate drew from its cartonnage in the midst of the Universal
Exposition, amid all the machinery of our modern civilisation.

FROM ALEXANDRIA TO CAIRO

The railway to Cairo runs first along a narrow strip of sand which separates the Baheirehma'adieh,
or Lake of Aboukir, from Lake Mareotis, now filled with salt water. As you go towards Cairo,
Lake Mareotis is on your right and the Lake of Aboukir on your left. The former stretches out
like a sea between shores so low that they disappear, and thus make it impossible to estimate
the size of the lake, which melts away into the sky on the horizon.

The sunlight fell perpendicularly upon its smooth waters, and made them flash and sparkle until
the eye was weary; in other places, the gray waters lay stagnant amid the gray sands, or else
were of the dead white of tin. It would have been easy to believe one's self in the Holland
Polders, travelling along one of the sleepy inland seas. The heavens were as colourless as
Van der Velde's skies, and the travellers, who, trusting to painters, had dreamed of a blaze
of colour, gazed with amazement upon the vast extent of absolutely flat, grayish toned land,
which in no wise recalled Egypt, at least such as one imagines it to be. On the side opposite
Lake Mareotis rose, in the midst of luxuriant gardens, the country homes of the rich merchants
of the city, of the government officials and of the consuls, painted in bright colours, sky-blue,
rose or yellow, picked out with white, and here and there the great sails of boats, bound to
Foueh or to Rosetta through the Mahmoudieh Canal, showed above the vegetation and seemed to
be travelling on dry land. This curious effect, which always causes surprise, is often met
with in the neighbourhood of Leyden, Dordrecht, and Haarlem, and in swampy countries where
the water lies level with the ground, and sometimes even, kept in by dikes, is higher than
the level of the country by several yards.

Where the salt water ends, the aspect of the country changes, not gradually, but suddenly;
on the one hand absolute barrenness, on the other exuberant vegetation; and wherever irrigation
brings a drop of water, plants spring up, and the sterile dust becomes fertile soil. The contrast
is most striking. We had passed Lake Mareotis, and on either side of the railroad stretched
fields of doora or maize, of cotton plants in various stages of growth, some opening their
pretty yellow flowers, others shedding the white silk from their pods. Gutters full of muddy
water rayed the black ground with lines that shone here and there in the light. These were
fed by broader canals connected with the Nile. Small dikes of earth, easily opened with a blow
of a pickaxe, dammed up the waters until watering-time. The rough wheels of the sakiehs, turned
by buffaloes, oxen, camels, or asses, raised the water to higher levels. Sometimes, even, two
robust fellahs, perfectly naked, tawny and shining like Florentine bronzes, standing on the
edge of a canal and balancing like a swing a basket of waterproof esparto suspended from two
ropes of which they held the ends, skimmed the surface of the water and dashed it into the
neighbouring field with amazing dexterity. Fellahs in short blue tunics were ploughing, holding
the handle of a primitive plough drawn by a camel and a humpbacked Soudanese ox; others gathered
cotton and maize; others dug ditches; others again dragged branches of trees by way of a harrow
over the furrows which the inundation had scarce left. Everywhere was seen an activity not
much in accord with the traditional Oriental idleness.

The first fellahin villages seen on the right and left of the road impress one curiously. They
are collections of huts of unbaked brick cemented with mud, with flat roofs occasionally topped
with a sort of whitewashed turret for pigeons, the sloping walls of which faintly recall the
outline of a truncated Egyptian pylon. A door as low as that of a tomb, and two or three holes
pierced in the wall are the only openings in these huts, which look more like the work of termites
than that of men. Often half the village--if such a name can be given to these earthen huts--has
been washed away by the rains or sapped by the flood; but no great harm is done; with a few
handfuls of mud the house is soon rebuilt, and five or six days of sunshine suffice to make
it inhabitable.

This description, scrupulously exact, does not give a very attractive idea of a fellahin village;
but plant by the side of these cubes of gray earth a clump of date palms, have a camel or two
kneel down in front of the doors, which look like the mouths of warrens, let a woman come out
from one of them draped in her long blue gown, holding a child by the hand and bearing a jar
of water on her head, light it all up with sunlight, and you have a charming and characteristic
picture.

The thing which strikes the most inattentive traveller as soon as he steps into this Lower
Egypt, where from time immemorial the Nile has been accumulating its mud in thin layers, is
the close intimacy of the fellah and the earth. Autochthone is the name that best fits him;
he springs from the clay which he treads, he is made out of it, and scarce has emerged from
it. He manipulates it, presses it as a child presses its nurse's breast, to draw from its brown
bosom the milk of fertility. He sinks waist-deep into its fertile mud, drains it, waters it,
dries it, according to its needs; cuts canals in it, builds up levees upon it, draws from it
the clay with which he constructs his family dwelling and with which he will cement his tomb.
Never was a respectful son more careful of his old mother; he does not leave her as do those
vagabond children who forsake their natal roof in search of adventures. That will come
your time. You are who repels. But one day be more than you.

The certainty that death would eventually beat Stephen kindled, making step care. He appealed
to supercharging as the only remedy, and always approaching Gabriel,
was with something in their hands.

- Eat this .... Drink what you
bring.

And he struggled with that broken body, with an upset stomach by poverty, with injured lungs
and heart subject to disruption in the operation, with the machine
battered by a human life of suffering and emotions.

The constant watch over the sick man had disrupted the economic life of Stephen. Their mean
poor salary and choirmaster support barely sufficient for that mouth-consuming more than all
the house together. Later this month, Stephen implore the help of Rod silver to finish the last
few days, thus entering into the submissive and miserable gray tied to the usury of the priest.
Other times, the chapel master, living for a moment in reality, we
gave a few pesetas, sacrificing the enjoyment of getting a new score.

Gabriel guess the hardships that the brother was undergoing, and wanted to contribute to the
costs of the house. But what work could be found in isolation within the cathedral? Longed one placed
at the temple earlier this month to collect a few pesetas hands the Silver Stick, not be so
burdensome to her brother.

But all the seats were occupied; only death could open holes, and there were many hungry people
waiting for the occasion, claiming family rights.

His inability to be helpful to the brother and the sacrifice of it
is less expensive was so saddened to Gabriel, disturbing the placid
monotony of their existence.

Asked Esteban what could do to not be idle, and the brother responded with its expression kind:

-
Taking care nothing but take care.

You have no other obligation than to keep your health. I'm here for the rest.

Easter came, and Gabriel found time to earn some wages. Iban raise in the cathedral's famous Monument
in the choir and the door of forgiveness. It was a factory heavy and complicated, sumptuous Baroque
style, which had cost at the beginning of the century a fortune to the second Cardinal de Bourbon.
A forest of timber scaffolding was Monument, the wealth of the cardinal
had made a solid waste and luxury, and to build the sacred coffin
many days were needed and not a few workers.

Gabriel was seen with Don Antolin, asking a place in the work. On either side of the line trot
three or four swift-footed lads, armed with wands; for in the East beasts of burden never lack
hostlers and whippers-in. Some of the camels are reddish, others sorrel, others brown, some
even are white, but dun is the most frequent colour. They carry stones, wood, grass bound with
esparto cords, bundles of sugar-cane, boxes, furniture,--in fact, whatever in our country would
be loaded on carts. Just now we might have thought ourselves in Holland as we passed along
those gray stretches of submerged ground, but the illusion is soon dispelled; as the camel
swings along the canal bank, you feel that you are approaching Cairo, and not Amsterdam.

Next come horsemen, bestriding thin, but spirited horses; droves of small donkeys, their masters
perched on their cruppers, almost on their tails, their legs almost touching the ground, ready
to be used in case the tricky animal falls or jibs, or even indulges, as it often does, in
a roll in the dust of the road. In the East the ass is neither contemned nor considered ridiculous
as it is in France; it has preserved its Homeric and biblical nobility, and every one bestrides
it without hesitation, the rich and the poor, the old and the young, women as well as men.

Now along the canal comes a charming group: a young woman robed in a long blue mantle, the
folds of which fall chastely around her, is seated upon an ass which a man, still vigorous
but whose beard is already streaked with gray and white hairs, leads carefully. In front of
the mother, who supports it with one hand, is a naked child, exquisitely beautiful, happy and
delighted at his trip. It is a picture of the Flight into Egypt; the figures lack nothing but
a fine golden halo around their heads. The Virgin, the Child Jesus, and Saint Joseph must have
looked like that, and so must their flight have been in the living and simple reality; their
equipage was not much finer. What a pity that some great painter, Perugino, Raphael, or Albert
Dürer, does not happen to be here.

Damanhûr, which the railroad traverses, looks very much as must have looked the ancient cities
of Egypt, now buried under the sand or fallen into dust. It is surrounded by sloping walls
built of unbaked bricks or of pisé which preserves its earthy colour. The flat-roofed houses
rise one above another like a collection of cubes dotted with little black holes. A few dovecotes,
the cupolas of which are whitewashed, and one or two minarets striped with red and white, alone
impart to the antique appearance of that city the modern aspect of Islamism. On the top of
the terraces women, squatting on mats or standing in their long robes of brilliant colours,
are looking at us, no doubt attracted by the passing of the train. As they show against the
sky, they are wondrously elegant and graceful. They look like statues erected on the top of
buildings or the front of temples.

The moment the train stopped, it was invaded by a band of women and children, offering fresh
water, bitter oranges, and honey confections to the travellers; and it was delightful to see
these brown faces showing at the carriage window their bright smile and their white teeth.
I should have liked to remain some time in Damanhûr, but travel, like life, is made up of sacrifices.
How many delightful things one is compelled to leave by the roadside, if one wishes to reach
the end. A man cannot see everything, and must be satisfied with seeing a few things. So I
had to leave Damanhûr and to behold that dream from afar without being able to traverse it.
As far as I could see, even through my glass, the land reached to the horizon line, intersected
by canals, broken by gutters, shimmering with pools of water, with scattered clumps of sycamore
trees and date palms, with long strips of cultivated ground, water-wheels rising here and there,
and enlivened by the incessant coming and going of the labourers who followed, on the backs
of camels, horses, or asses, or on foot, the narrow road bordering the levees. At intervals
there arose, under the shade of a mimosa, the white cupola of a tomb; sometimes a nude child
stood motionless on the edge of the water in the attitude of unconscious reverie, not even
turning his head to see the train fly along. This deep gravity in childhood is peculiar to
the East. What could that boy, standing on his lump of earth as a Stylites on his pillar, be
thinking of? From time to time flocks of pigeons, busy feeding, flew off with a sudden whir
as the train passed by, and alighted farther away on the plain; aquatic birds swam swiftly
through the reeds that outstretched behind them, pretty wagtails hopped about, wagging their
tails, on the crest of the levees; and in the heavens at a vast height, soared hawks, falcons,
and gerfalcons, sweeping in great circles. Buffaloes wallowed in the mud of the ditches, and
flocks of black sheep with hanging ears, very like goats, were hurrying along driven by the
shepherds. The antique simplicity of the costume of the young herdsmen, with their short tunics,
white or blue, faded by the sun, their bare legs, their dusty, naked feet, their felt caps,
their crooks, recalled the patriarchal scenes of the Bible.

At the next station we stopped, and I got out to have a look at the landscape. I had scarcely
gone a few steps when a wondrous sight met my astonished eyes: before me was the Nile, old
Hapi, to give it its ancient Egyptian name, the inexhaustible Father of Waters. Through one
of those involuntary plastic impressions which act upon the imagination, the Nile called up
to my mind the colossal marble god in one of the lower halls of the Louvre, carelessly leaning
on his elbow and, with paternal kindliness, allowing himself to be climbed over by the little
children which represent cubits, and the various phases of the inundation. Well, it was not
under this mythological aspect that the great river appeared to me for the first time. It was
flowing in flood, spreading out broadly like a torrent of reddish mud which scarcely looked
like water as it swelled and rushed by irresistibly. It looked like a river of soil; scarcely
did the reflection of the sky imprint here and there upon the gloomy surface of its tumultuous
waves a few light touches of azure. It was still almost at the height of its rise, but the
flood had the tranquil power of a regular phenomenon, and not the convulsive disorder of a
scourge. The majesty of that vast sheet of water laden with fertilising mud produces an almost
religious impression. How many vanished civilisations have been reflected for a time in that
ever-flowing wave! I remained absorbed as I gazed at it, sunk in thought, and feeling that
strange sinking of the heart which one experiences after desire has been fulfilled, and reality
has taken the place of the dream. What I was looking at was indeed the Nile, the real Nile,
the river which I had so often endeavoured to discover by intuition. A sort of stupor nailed
me to the bank, and yet it was a very natural thing that I should come across the Nile in Egypt
in the very centre of the Delta. But man is subject to such artless astonishment.

Dhahabîyehs and felûkas spreading their great lateen sails were tacking across the river, passing
from one shore to the other, and recalling the shape of the mystic baris of the times of the
Pharaohs.

We set out again. The aspect of the country was still the same; fields of cotton, maize, doora,
stretched as far as the eye could reach. Here and there glimmered the portions of the ground
covered by the flood. Slate-blue buffaloes wallowed in the pools and emerged covered with mud;
water birds stood along the edges, and sometimes flew off as the train passed, watched by families
of fellahs, squatting on the banks of the ditches. Along the road travelled the endless procession
of camels, asses, oxen, black goats, and foot-passengers, which enlivened to such an extent
that peaceful, flat landscape. I had already noticed when in Holland the additional importance
given to figures by a flat country; the lack of hills makes them stand out, and as they usually
show against the sky they loom larger. I seemed to see pass by the zones of painted bassi-relievi
representing agricultural scenes which occasionally formed part of the decoration of the halls
of Egyptian tombs. Here and there rose villages or farms, the lines of whose sloping, earth-gray
walls recalled the substructures of antique temples. Groups of sycamore and mimosa trees, set
off by clumps of date palms, brought out the soft tones of the walls by the contrast of their
rich verdure. Elsewhere I caught sight of fellahin huts surmounted by whitewashed dovecotes,
placed side by side like beehives or the minarets of a mosque. We soon reached Tantah, a somewhat
important town, to which the fine mosque of Seyd Ahmed Badouy attracts pilgrims twice a year,
and the fairs of which are frequented by the caravans.

Tantah, from the railway station,--for the train does not stop long enough to allow travellers
to visit the town,--has an animated and picturesque aspect. Amid the houses in the Arab style
with their look-outs and their awnings, rise buildings in that Oriental-Italian style dear
to persons of progress and of modern ideas, painted in soft colours, ochre, salmon, or sky-blue;
flat-roofed clay huts; over all, the minarets of the mosque, the white cupolas of a few tombs,
and the inevitable fig trees and palms rising above the low garden walls. Between the town
and the station stretches waste ground, a sort of fair-ground, on which are camps, huts of
reed or of date-palm branches, tents formed of old rags of cloth and sometimes of the linen
of an unrolled turban. The inhabitants of these frail dwellings cook in the open air. The coffee
is made, a cup at a time, in a small brass kettle, and on plates of tin are cooked the thin
doora cakes. The fuel is camel's-dung. The fellahs suck eagerly the sweetish juice of the sugar-cane
cut into short pieces, and the slices of watermelon show within the green skin their ripe,
rosy, flesh, spotted with black seeds. Women, as graceful as statues, come and go, holding
the end of their veil between their teeth so as to conceal one half of the face, and bearing
on their heads Theban jars or copper vases; while the men, squatting on the ground or on small
carpets, their knees up to their chins, forming an acute angle like the legs of locusts, in
an attitude which no European could assume, and recalling the judges of Amenti ranged in rows
one behind another on the papyri of funeral rituals, preserve that dreamy immobility so dear
to Orientals when they have nothing to do; for to move about merely for exercise, as Christians
do, strikes them as utter folly.

Dromedaries, alone or grouped in circles, kneeling under their burdens, stretch out their long
legs on the sand, motionless in the burning sun. Asses, some of which are daintily harnessed,
with saddles of red morocco rising in a boss on the withers, and with headstalls adorned with
tufts, and others with an old carpet for a saddle-cloth, were waiting for the travellers who
were to stop at Tantah to bear them from the station to the town. The donkey drivers, clothed
in short blue and white tunics, bare-armed and bare-legged, their heads covered with a fez,
a wand in their hand, and resembling the slender figures of shepherds or youths which are so
exquisitely drawn on the bodies of Greek vases, stood near their animals in an indolent attitude,
which they abandoned as soon as a chance customer came their way. Then they indulged in mad
gesticulations, guttural cries, and fought with each other until the unfortunate tourist ran
the risk of being torn to pieces or stripped of the best part of his garments. Tawny, wandering
dogs with jackal ears, fallen indeed from their old position, and forgetting apparently that
they counted Anubis, the dog-headed Anubis latrator, among their ancestors, passed in and out
among the groups, but without taking the least interest in what was going on.

The bonds which in Europe unite the dog to man do not exist in the East; its social instinct
has not been developed, its sympathies have not been appealed to; it has no master, and lives
in a savage state. No services are asked of it, and it is not cared for; it has no home and
dwells in holes which it makes, unless it stays in some open tomb; no one feeds it; it hunts
for itself, gorging on dead bodies and unnamable débris. There is a proverb which says that
wolves do not eat each other; Eastern dogs are less scrupulous; they readily devour their sick,
wounded, or dead companions. It seemed strange to me to see dogs which did not make any advances
to me, and did not seek to be caressed, but maintained a proud and melancholy reserve.

Little girls in blue gowns and little negroes in white tunics came up to the carriages, offering
pastry, cakes, bitter oranges, lemons, and apples,--yes, apples. Eastern people seem to be
very fond of that acid Northern fruit which, along with wretched, granulous pears, forms part
of every dessert, at which of course one never gets either pomegranates, or bananas, or dates,
or oranges, or purple figs, or any native fruits, which are no doubt left to the common people.

The whistle of the engine sounded, and we were again carried away through that very humid and
very green Delta. However, as we advanced there showed on the horizon lines of rosy land from
which vegetable life was wholly absent. The sand of the desert advances with its waves, as
sterile as those of the sea, eternally disturbed by the winds and beating upon the islet of
cultivated earth surrounded and stormed by dusty foam, as upon a reef which it endeavours to
cover up. In Egypt, whatever lies above the level of the flood is smitten with death. There
is no transition; where stops Osiris, Typhon begins; here luxuriant vegetation, there not a
blade of grass, not a bit of moss, not a single one of the adventurous plants which grow in
solitary and lonely places,--nothing but ground-up sandstone without any mixture of loam. But
if a drop of Nile water falls upon it, straightway the barren sand is covered with verdure.
These strips of pale salmon-colour form a pleasant contrast with the rich tints of the great
plain of verdure spread out before us.

Soon we came upon another arm of the Nile, the Phatnitic branch, which flows into the sea near
Damietta. It is crossed by the railway, and on the other side lie the ruins of ancient Athrebys,
over which has been built a fellahin village. The train sped along, and soon on the right,
above the line of green, turning almost black in the dazzling light, showed in the azure distance
the triangular silhouette of the pyramids of Cheops and Chephren, appearing, from where I first
beheld them, like a single mountain with a piece taken out of the summit. The marvellous clearness
of the atmosphere made them appear nearer, and had I not been aware of the real distance I
should have found it difficult to estimate it correctly. It is quite natural to catch sight
of the pyramids as one approaches Cairo; it is to be expected and it is expected, yet the sight
causes extraordinary emotion and surprise. It is impossible to describe the effect produced
by that vaporous outline so faint that it almost melts into the colour of the sky, and that,
if one had not been forewarned, it might escape notice. Neither years nor barbarians have been
able to overthrow these artificial mountains, the most gigantic monuments, except, perhaps,
the Tower of Babel, ever raised by man. For five thousand years they have been standing there,--almost
as old as the world, according to the biblical account. Even our own civilisation, with its
powerful methods of destruction, could scarcely manage to tear them down. The pyramids have
seen ages and dynasties flow by like billows of sand, and the colossal Sphinx with its noseless
face ever smiles at their feet with its ironical and mysterious smile. Even after they were
opened they kept their secret, and yielded up but the bones of oxen by the side of an empty
sarcophagus. Money is the driving force of human progress, the lever of Archimedes to move
the moral world, the foundation of almost all poetry, and even the crucible of the virtues rare.
Most of the men who appear to despise or neglect the money, made out of spite and envy, mimic
the fox, saying they are not mature. Those who love to sincerity poverty, those who believe and
call it holy gift ungrateful, or are crazy, or are saints are Diogenes or San Francisco de
Asis, unless certain that they understand poverty magnanimous virtue which consists in possessing
and enjoying all things with disdain and detachment, as if they were possessed or might enjoy.

Nothing
in this sublunary world to provide more advantages than having money.



While these thoughts flashed through my mind we were rapidly approaching Cairo,--Cairo, of
which I had talked so often with poor Gérard de Nerval, with Gustave Flaubert, and Maxime Du
Camp, whose tales had excited my curiosity to the highest pitch. In the case of cities which
one has desired to see from childhood, and which one has long inhabited in dreams, one is apt
to conceive a fantastic notion which it is very difficult to efface, even in presence of reality.
The sight of an engraving, of a picture, often forms a starting-point. My Cairo, built out
of the materials of the "Thousand and One Nights," centred around the Ezbekîyeh Place, the
strange painting of which Marilhat had sent from Egypt to one of the first exhibitions which
followed the Revolution of July. Unless I am mistaken, it was his first picture, and whatever
the perfection which he afterwards attained, I do not believe that he ever painted a work fuller
of life, more individual, and more striking. It made a deep and curious impression upon me;
I went time and again to see it; I could not take my eyes off it, and it exercised upon me
a sort of nostalgic fascination. It was from that painting that my dreams started upon fantastic
trips through the narrow streets of ancient Cairo once traversed by Caliph Haroun al Raschid
and his faithful vizier Jaffier, under the disguise of slaves or common people. My admiration
for the painting was so well known that Marilhat's family gave me, after the death of the famous
artist, the pencil sketch of the subject made on the spot, and which he had used as a study
for the finished work.

And now we had arrived. A great mob of carriages, asses, donkey drivers, porters, guides, dragomans,
rioted in front of the railway station, which is at Boulah, a short distance from old Cairo.
When we had recovered our luggage, and I had been installed with my friend in a handsome open
carriage preceded by a saïs, it was with secret delight that I heard the Egyptian providence
which watched over us in its Nizam uniform and its magenta fez, call out to the coachman, "Hotel
Shepheard, Ezbekîyeh Place." I was going to lodge in my dream.

EZBEKÎYEH SQUARE

A few minutes later the carriage stopped before the steps of the Hotel Shepheard, which has
a sort of veranda provided with chairs and sofas for the convenience of travellers who desire
to enjoy the cool air. We were received cordially, and given a fine room, very high-ceiled,
with two beds provided with mosquito-nets, and a window looking out upon the Ezbekîyeh Square.

I did not expect to find Marilhat's painting before me, unchanged, and merely enlarged to the
proportions of reality. The accounts of tourists who had recently returned from Egypt had made
me aware that the Ezbekîyeh no longer looked the same as formerly, when the waters of the Nile
turned it into a lake in times of flood, and when it still preserved its true Arab character.

Huge mimosas and sycamores fill up the centre of the square with domes of foliage so intensely
green that it looks almost black. On the left rises a row of houses, among which are to be
seen, side by side with the newer buildings, old Arab dwellings more or less modernised. A
great number of moucharabiehs had disappeared. There remains a sufficient number of them, however,
to preserve the Oriental character of this side of the square.

Above the trees on the other side of the square, higher than the line of the roofs, are seen
four or five minarets, the shafts of which, built in courses alternately blue and red, stand
out against the azure sky. On the right the scarps of Mokattam, of a rosy gray, show their
bare sides, on which no vegetation is apparent. The trees of the square conceal the newer buildings,
and thus my dream was not too much upset.

Being an invalid, I had to be somewhat careful, and required two or three days of complete
rest. If the reader is fond of travel, he will understand how great was my desire to begin
exploring that labyrinth of picturesque streets in which swarms a vari-coloured crowd, but
it was out of the question for the time being. I thought that Cairo, more complaisant in this
respect than the mountain to the prophet, would come to me if I could not go to it, and as
a matter of fact, Cairo was polite enough to do so.

While my luckier companions started to visit the city, I settled myself on the veranda. It
was the best place I could have chosen, for even leaving out the people on the Square, the
veranda roof sheltered many curious characters. There were dragomans, most of them Greeks or
Copts, wearing the fez and a short, braided jacket and full trousers; cavasses richly costumed
in oriental fashion, scimetar on the hip, kandjar in the belt, and silver-topped cane in the
hand; native servants in white drawers and blue or pink gowns; little negroes, bare-armed and
bare-legged, dressed in short tunics striped with brilliant colours; dealers selling kuffîyehs,
gandouras, and oriental stuffs manufactured in Lyons, photographic views of Egypt and of Cairo,
or pictures of national types,--to say nothing of the travellers themselves, who, having come
from all parts of the world, certainly deserved to be looked at.

Opposite the hotel, on the other side of the road, stood in the shade of the mimosas the carriages
placed at the disposal of the invited guests by the splendid hospitality of the Khedive. An
inspector, blind in one eye, with a turban rolled around his head and wearing a long blue caftan,
called them up and gave the drivers the orders of the travellers. There also stood the battalion
of donkey drivers with their long-eared steeds. I am told that there are no less than eighty
thousand donkeys in Cairo. That number does not seem to be exaggerated. There are donkeys at
every corner, around every mosque, and in the most deserted places there suddenly appear from
behind a wall a donkey driver and a donkey that place themselves at your service. These asses
are very pretty, spirited, and bright-tempered; they have not the piteous look and the air
of melancholy resignation of the asses of our own country, which are ill fed, beaten, and contemned.
You feel that they think as much of themselves as other animals do, and that they are not the
whole day long a butt for stupid jokes. Perhaps they are aware that Homer compared Ajax to
an ass, a comparison which is ridiculous in the West; and they also remember that one of their
ancestors bore Miriam, the Virgin Mother of Issa, under the sycamore of Matarieh. Their coat
varies from dark-brown to white, through all the shades of dun and gray. Some have white stars
and fetlocks. The handsomest are clipped with ingenious coquetry so as to make around the legs
patterns which make them look as if they were wearing open-worked stockings. When they are
white, the end of the tail and the mane are dyed with henna. Of course this is only in the
case of thorough-bred animals, of the aristocracy of the asinine race, and is not indulged
in with the common herd.

Their harness consists of a headstall adorned with tresses, tufts of silk and wool, sometimes
coral beads or copper plates, and of a morocco saddle, usually red, rising up in front to prevent
falls, but without any cantle. The saddle is placed upon a piece of carpet or striped stuff,
and is fastened by a broad girth which passes diagonally under the animal's tail like a crupper-strap;
another girth fastens the saddle-cloth, and two short stirrups flap against the animal's sides.
The harness is more or less rich according to the means of the donkey driver and the rank of
his customers, but I am speaking merely of asses which stand for hire. No one in Cairo considers
it undignified to ride an ass,--old men, grown men, dignitaries, townspeople, all use them.
Women ride astride, a fashion which in no wise compromises their modesty, thanks to the enormous
folds of their broad trousers which almost completely conceal their feet. They often carry
before them, placed upon the saddle-bow, a small, half-nude, child which they steady with one
hand while with the other they hold the bridle. It is usually women of importance who indulge
in this luxury, for the poor fellahin women have no other means of locomotion than their little
feet. These beauties, as we may suppose them to be, since they are masked more closely than
society ladies at the Opera ball, wear over their garments a habbarah, a sort of black taffeta
sack, which fills with air and swells in the most ungraceful fashion if the animal's pace is
quickened.

In the East a rider, whether on horseback or on an ass, is always accompanied by two or three
footmen. One runs on ahead with a wand in his hand to clear the way, the second holds the animal's
bridle, and the third hangs on by its tail, or at least puts his hand on the crupper. Sometimes
there is a fourth who flits about and stirs up the animal with a switch. Every minute Decamp's
"Turkish Patrol," that startling painting which made such a sensation in the Exhibition of
1831, passed before me, amid a cloud of dust, and made me smile; but no one appeared to notice
the comicality of the situation: a stout man dressed in white with a broad belt around his
waist, perched on a little ass and followed by three or four poor devils, thin and tanned,
with hungry mien, who through excess of zeal and in hope of backshish, seem to carry along
the rider and his steed.

I must be forgiven all this information about the asses and their drivers, but these occupy
so large a space in life at Cairo that they are entitled to the importance which they really
possess.

ANCIENT EGYPT

The solemn title must not terrify the reader. M. Ernest Feydeau's book is, in spite of its
title, most attractive reading. In his case science does not mean weariness, as happens too
often. The author of "Funeral Customs and Sepulture among the Ancient Nations" desired to be
understood of all, and everybody may profit by his long and careful researches. He has not
sealed his work with seven seals, as if it were an apocalyptic volume, to be understood by
adepts only; he has sought clearness, distinctness, colour, and he has given to archæology
the plastic form which it almost always lacks. What is the use of heaping together materials
in disorder, stones which are not made to form part of a building, colours which are not turned
into pictures? What does the public, for whom, after all, books are meant, get out of so many
obscure works, cryptic dissertations, deep researches, with which learned authors seem to mask
entrances, as the ancient Egyptians--the comparison is a proper one here--masked the entrances
to their tombs and their mummy pits so that no one might penetrate into them? What is the use
of carving in darkness endless panels of hieroglyphs which no eye is to behold and the key
to which one keeps for one's self? M. Ernest Feydeau is bold enough to desire to be an artist
as well as a scholar; for picturesqueness in no wise detracts from accuracy, though erudites
generally affect to believe the contrary. Did not Augustin Thierry draw his intensely living,
animated, dramatic, and yet thoroughly true "Stories of the Merovingian Times" from the colourless,
diffuse, ill-composed history of Gregory of Tours? Did not Sauval's unreadable work become
"Notre-Dame de Paris" in Victor Hugo's hands? Did not Walter Scott, by his novels, Shakespeare
by his dramas, render the greatest services to history by giving life to dead chronicles, by
putting into flesh and blood heroes on whom forgetfulness had scattered its dust in the solitude
of libraries? Does any one suppose that the chroniclers of the future will not consult Balzac
to advantage, and look upon his work as a precious mine of documents? How great would be the
interest excited by a similar account, domestic, intimate and familiar, by a Greek or a Roman
author? We can have some idea of this from the fragments of Petronius and the Tales of Apuleius,
which tell us more about life in the days of antiquity than the gravest writers, who often
forget men while dwelling upon facts.

In an essay on the history of manners and customs which forms the introduction to his book,
M. Ernest Feydeau has discussed this question of colour applied to science with much spirit,
logic, and eloquence. He proves that it is possible, without falling into novel writing, without
indulging in imaginativeness, and while preserving the gravity and the authority of history,
to group around facts, by the intelligent reading of texts, by the study and the comparison
of the monuments, the manners, the customs, the books of vanished races, to show man at a particular
time, to put as a background to each event the landscape, the city, or the interior in which
it occurred, and in the conqueror's hand the weapon which he really carried. Ideas have forms,
events take place amid certain surroundings, individuals wear costumes which archæology, properly
understood, can restore to them. That is its proper task. History draws the outline with a
graver, archæology must fill it in with colour. 

It was more than an hour. Mariano had cut the conversation several times, as if to say something
serious, and hesitated, devoid of value. Finally decided.

- Gabriel spends time and we still much to do and to talk.

They are little more than eleven.

There are still hours to do the thing well.

- What do you mean? - Luna asked with surprise.

- Few words to the point. It is you to be rich and be us, we want to leave of this misery .... Already
noticed long ago that we fled from you, that the pleasure of hearing you preferred to talk
to us. Is that you are a wise, but not worth a penny for things in life. You learn, but not out of poverty
... We have spent months thinking the need to strike lucky. These revolutions that we speak are
far away. The see our grandchildren, and perhaps not even to see. It is good that the wise think
of the future, but the gross and we only see the present. We spent the time flowing atrocities:
Don Sebastian kidnap and ransom demand of one million, enter the palace one night, and I do
not know what else ...! All nonsense designed for your nephew. But this morning, at home, lamenting
the misery, we have seen the salvation soon. You as the only guardian of the cathedral, the Virgin
in the altar with the jewels that the rest of the year stored in the Treasury, and me with the
keys in my possession .... The easiest job in the world. Clean the Virgin, we set the road to
Madrid and arrived at dawn, the Tato know there a lot people from
going to the capeas: we hid some time, and then you, you know the
world will guide us.

We will go to America, sell the stones, and be rich. Alza, Gabriel!

Let to strip the idol, as you say.

- Following is what I propose to theft! - Luna exclaimed in alarm.

- A robbery? - Said the sexton -. Call it so if you like: what?, Are you scared of that ...? More
we have stolen from us, we were born with the right to a bit of world and more turns that we did
not find a free site .... Besides, who does a disservice to this?

You're welcome serve this jewelry piece of wood covering it. Or eat, or feel cold in winter
and we are miserable.

You yourself have said, Gabriel, contemplating our poverty. Our children are starving on the knees
of their mothers, while the idols are covered wealth ... Come on, Gabriel, do not waste time!

-
Come on, man! "- Said the Tato -. A little courage. Convince yourself that the ignorant know
spinning things when it happens.

Gabriel did not listen. The surprise made him fall into withdrawal. Media, scared, the big mistake,
saw a huge gap opened between him and those who believed his disciples.
He remembered the words of his brother. Ah, good sense of the simple!
He, with all readings, had not foreseen the danger of teaching the
ignorant in a few months what requiring a lifetime of reflection and
study. The same thing was little what happens in people agitated for
revolution. The noblest ideas are corrupted when passing through the
sieve of vulgarity, the generous aspirations were poisoned with sediments
of misery. The belief in metempsychosis,
in the migration of the soul, in other spheres, in reward and punishment according to the works
done by men in the flesh, arose among nations in accordance with the degree of civilisation
which they had attained. Among the least civilised these doctrines exist in a state of confusion,
remain vague, uncouth, surcharged with superstition and peculiarities. Nevertheless, everywhere
the mystery of the tomb is venerated.

It may be affirmed that no nation was so preoccupied with death as ancient Egypt. It is a strange
sight to behold that people preparing its tomb from childhood, refusing to yield up its dust
to the elements, and struggling against destruction with invincible obstinacy. Just as the
layers of Nile mud have overlaid one another since the birth of time, the generations of Egypt
are ranged in order at the bottom of the mummy pits of the hypogea and the pyramids of the
necropolis, their bodies intact--for the worm of the tomb dare not attack them, repelled as
it is by the bitter bituminous odours. But for the sacrilegious devastations of man, that dead
people would be found complete, and its numberless multitudes might cover the earth. Imagination
is staggered when it attempts to calculate the probable numbers; if Egyptian civilisation had
lasted ten centuries longer, the dead would have ended by expelling the living from their native
land. The necropolis would have invaded the city, and the stark mummies in their bandages would
have stood up by the wall of the hearth.

You cannot have forgotten the marvellous chapter on "A Bird's-eye view of Paris," an amazing
restoration by a poet, in which archæology itself, in spite of the progress it has made, would
find it difficult to discover a flaw. Well, what Victor Hugo has done for mediæval Paris, M.
Ernest Feydeau has attempted for the Thebes of the Pharaohs, and his restoration, as complete
as it is possible for it to be, and which no historian had attempted, stands out before us
as sharply as a plan in relief, and with all the perspective of a panorama. Thebes of the Hundred
Gates, as Homer called it,--antiquity has told us nothing more about this ancestress of capitals;
but M. Ernest Feydeau takes us walking with him through the city of Rameses; he shows us all
its monuments, its temples, its palaces, the dwellings of the inhabitants, the gardens, the
harbour, the fleet of vessels; he draws and colours the costumes of the people; he enters the
harems, and shows us the travelling musicians, the dancers, the enslaved nations which built
for the Egyptians, the soldiers manoeuvring on the parade ground, the processions of Ammon,
the foreign peoples which come seeking refuge and corn, the caravans of thirty-five hundred
years ago bringing in the tribute. Then he describes the colleges of priests, the quarters
inhabited by the embalmers, the minutest details of the embalming processes, the funeral rites,
the construction of the thousands of hypogea and mummy pits which are to receive the mummies.
Finally he shows us, passing through the streets of that strange city, the funeral procession
of a royal scribe upon its catafalque, drawn by oxen,--the numberless mourners, the hosts of
servants bearing alms and offerings. I regret that the length of that passage does not allow
of my quoting it in full and enabling the reader to mark the union of a beautiful style with
scientific knowledge. Unquestionably no modern traveller has ever given a more picturesque
description of any existing city, Constantinople, Rome, or Cairo. The artist seems to be seated
upon the terrace of a palace, drawing and painting from nature as if he were a contemporary
of Rameses, and as if the sands had not covered with their shroud, through which show a few
gigantic ruins, the city forever vanished. And yet he indulges in no chance supposition, in
no rash padding. Every detail he gives is supported by the most authentic documents. M. Ernest
Feydeau put aside every doubtful piece of information and all that appeared susceptible of
being interpreted in more than one way. He seems to have been anxious to forestall the suspicious
mistrust of scholars, who object to having the dry results of erudition clothed in poetic language,
and who do not believe that a treatise on archæology can possibly be read with as much interest
as a novel.

As I have said, the Egyptians have left us no books, and had they done so the art of deciphering
hieroglyphics or even phonetic or demotic writing is not yet assured enough to allow of absolute
trust being put in it. Happily the Egyptians performed a work of such mightiness that it amazes
the beholder. By the side of the hieroglyphic inscriptions they carved on the walls of palaces
and temples, on the sides of pylons, the faces of the corridors and the bays of funeral chambers,
on the faces of the sarcophagi and on the stelæ, on the covers and the interior cartonnages
of the mummies,--in short, on every smooth surface of rock, whether sandstone or granite, basalt
or porphyry, with an ineffaceable line coloured with tints that the long succession of ages
has not faded,--scenes in which we find in detail the habits and customs and the ceremonies
of the oldest civilisation in the world. It seems as if those strange and mysterious people,
foreseeing the difficulty which posterity would experience in deciphering their hieroglyphics,
intrusted their translation to drawing, and made the hypogea tell the secret kept by the papyri.

Royal ceremonies, triumphal entries, the payments of tribute, all the incidents of military
life, of agriculture, sport, fishing, banqueting, dances, the intimate life of the harem, all
is reproduced in these endless paintings, so clearly drawn, with the difference in races, variety
of types, shape of chariots, of weapons, of arms, of furniture, of utensils, of food, of plants,
still clearly visible to-day. A maker of musical instruments could certainly make a harp, a
lyre, or a sistrum from the pattern of those upon which are playing the female musicians at
the funeral repast represented in one of the tombs of the necropolis of Thebes. The model of
a dog-cart in a plate of modern carriages is not drawn more accurately than the profile of
the chariot seen in the funeral procession of the ecclesiastical scribe of Amenoph III, a king
of the eighteenth dynasty.

The author has not confined himself to these purely material details. He has examined the funeral
papyri which, more or less valuable, are found with each mummy; he has carefully studied the
allegorical signs which represent the judgment of the soul, the good and evil deeds of which
are weighed before Osiris and the forty-two judges, and thus he has mastered the mysterious
beliefs of the Egyptians on the question of the future life. The soul, whether it was conducted
to Amenti or driven into the infernal regions--that is, towards the West--by the dog-headed
monkeys, who appear to have been a sort of dæmons charged with the carrying out of sentences,--the
soul was, nevertheless, not freed from all connection with the body; its relative immortality
depended in some sort upon the integrity of the latter; the alteration, the deprivation of
one of the limbs was supposed to be felt by the soul, the form of whose impalpable spectre
would have been mutilated and could not have traversed, wanting a leg or an arm, the cycle
of migrations or metempsychoses. Hence the religious care taken of the human remains, the infallible
methods and the minute precautions of the embalmers, the perfect solidity and the secret location
of the tombs, of which the priests alone possessed the plan, the constant thought of eternity
in death which characterised in so striking a manner the ancient Egyptians and makes them a
nation apart, incomprehensible to modern nations, which are generally so eager to give back
to the earth and to cause to disappear the generations which have preceded them.

During his long and intimate acquaintance with Egypt, M. Ernest Feydeau, who is not only an
archæologist but also a poet, after he had sounded the mysteries of the old kingdom of the
Pharaohs, became passionately attached to that art which the Greek ideal--which nevertheless
is indebted to it for more than one lesson--has caused us to despise too much. 

Although it was not very moral and very fond of the order before being rich, then it is, the
it pays interest at least a morality and a religion that does not leave apparent usefulness.

I
infer from all this that we should not blame the corruption of our
century, or perversity the human race, this tender love everything
he professes to money.

What else has love on earth, if not love money, that represents them all, symbolizes and resume?
 There is a beauty of a strange
and penetrating charm foreign to our own habits in the heads with their delicate profiles,
their great eyes made larger by the use of antimony, the somewhat thick lips with their faint,
dreamy pout, or their vague smile resembling that of the sphinx, in the rounded cheeks upon
which hang broad discs of gold, in the brows shaded by lotus flowers, in the temples framed
in by the narrow tresses of the hair, powdered with blue powder, which are shown in funeral
processions. How youthful, how fresh, how pure are the tall, slender bodies, the swelling bosoms,
the supple waists, the narrow hips of these dancers and musicians who beat time with their
long, slender fingers and their long, narrow feet. The Etruscans themselves have never produced
anything more light, more graceful, and more elegant upon the bodies of their finest vases,
and in more than one famous Greek bas-relief can be recognised attitudes and gestures borrowed
from the frescoes of the necropolis and the tombs of Egypt. It is from Egypt also that Greece
took, while diminishing their huge size, its Doric and Ionic orders and its Corinthian capital,
in which the acanthus takes the place of the lotus flower.

