Suffocating, he fled up the aisle and out into the lobby. There he addressed himself distractedly
but plainly:

"Jackass!"

Breathing heavily, he went out to the wide front steps of the theatre and stood, sunlit Broadway
swimming before him.

"Hello, Canby!"

A shabby, shaggy, pale young man, with hot eyes, checked his ardent gait and paused, extending
a cordial, thin hand, the fingers browned at the sides by cigarettes smoked to the bitter end.
"Rieger," he said. "Arnold Rieger. Remember me at the old Ink Club meetings before we broke up?"

"Yes," said Canby dimly. "Yes. The old Ink Club. I came out for a breath of air. Just a breath."

"We used to settle the universe in that little back restaurant room," said Rieger. "Not one
of use had ever got a thing into print--and me, I haven't yet, for that matter. Editors still
hate my stuff. I've kept my oath, though; I've never compromised--never for a moment."

"Yes," Canby responded feebly, wondering what the man was talking about. Wanda Malone was surely
on the stage, now. If he turned, walked about thirty feet, and opened a door, he would see
her--hear her speaking!

"I've had news of your success," said Rieger. "I saw in the paper that Talbot Potter was to
put on a play you'd written. I congratulate you. That man's a great artist, but he never seems
to get a good play; he's always much, much greater than his part. I'm sure you've given him
a real play at last. I remember your principles: Realism; no compromise! The truth; no shirking
it, no tampering with it! You've struck out for that--you've never compro--"

"No. Oh, no," said Canby, waking up a little. "Of course you've got to make a little change
or two in plays. You see, you've got to make an actor like a play or he won't play it, and
if he won't play it you haven't got any play--you've only got some typewriting."

Rieger set his foot upon the step and rested his left forearm upon his knee, and attitude comfortable
for street debate. "Admitting the truth of that for the sake of argument, and only for the
moment, because I don't for one instant accept such a jesuitism--"

"Yes," said Canby dreamily. "Yes." And, with not only apparent but genuine unconsciousness
of this one-time friend's existence, he turned and walked back into the lobby, and presently
was vaguely aware that somebody near the street doors of the theatre seemed to be in a temper.
Somebody kept shouting "Swell-headed pup!" and "Go to the devil!" at somebody else repeatedly,
but finally went away, after reaching a vociferous climax of even harsher epithets and instructions.

The departure of this raging unknown left the lobby quiet; Canby had gone near to the inner
doors. Listening fearfully, he heard through these a murmurous baritone cadencing: Talbot Potter
declaiming the inwardness of "Roderick Hanscom"; and then--oh, bells of Elfland faintly chiming!--the
voice of Wanda Malone!

He pressed, trembling, against the doors, and went in.

Talbot Potter and Wanda Malone stood together, the two alone in the great hollow space of the
stage. The actors of the company, silent and remote, watched them; old Tinker, halfway down
an aisle, stood listening; and near the proscenium two workmen, tools in their hands, had paused
in attitudes of arrested motion. Save for the voices of the two players, the whole vast cavern
of the theatre was as still as the very self of silence. And the stirless air that filled it
was charged with necromancy.

Rehearsal is like the painted canvas without a frame; it is more like a plaster cast, most
like of all to the sculptor's hollow moulds. It needs the bronze to bring a statue to life,
and it needs the audience to bring a play to life. Some glamour must come from one to the other;
some wind of enchantment must blow between them--there must be a magic spell. But these two
actors had produced the spell without the audience.

And yet they were only reading a wistful little love-scene that Stewart Canby had written the
night before.

Two people were falling in love with each other, neither realizing it. And these two who played
the lovers had found some hidden rhythm that brought them together in one picture as a chord
is one sound. They played to each other and with each other instinctively; Talbot Potter had
forgotten "the smile" and all the mechanism that went with it. The two held the little breathless
silences of lovers; they broke these silences timidly, and then their movements and voices
ran together like waters in a fountain. A radiance was about them as it is about all lovers;
they were suffused with it.

To Stewart Canby, watching, they seemed to move within a sorcerer's circle of enchantment.
Upon his disturbed mind there was dawning a conviction that these inspired mummers were beings
apart from him, knowing things he never could know, feeling things he never could feel, belonging
to another planet whither he could never voyage, where strange winds blew and all things lived
and grew in a light beyond his understanding. For the light that shone in the faces of these
two was "the light that never was, on sea or land."

It had its blessing for him. From that moment, if he had known it, this play, which was being
born of so many parents, was certain of "success," of "popularity," and of what quality of
renown such things may bring. And he who was to be called its author stood there a Made Man,
unless some accident befell.

Miss Ellsling spoke and came forward, another actor with her. The scene was over. There was
a clearing of throats; everybody moved. The stage-carpenter and his assistant went away blinking,
like men roused from deep sleep. The routine of rehearsal resumed its place; and old Tinker,
who had not stirred a muscle, rubbed the back of his neck suddenly, and came up the aisle to Canby.

"Good business!" he cried. "Did you see that little run off the stage she made when Miss Ellsling
came on? And you saw what he can do when he wants to!"

"He?" Canby echoed. "He?"

"Played for the scene instead of himself. Oh, he can do it! He's an old hand--got too many
tricks in the bag to let her get the piece away from him--but he's found a girl that can play
with him at last, and he'll use every value she's got. He knows good property when he sees
it. She's got a pretty good box of tricks herself; stock's the way to learn 'em, but it's apt
to take the bloom off. It hasn't taken off any of hers, the darlin'! What do you think, Mr. Canby?"

To Canby, who hardly noticed that this dead old man had come to life, the speech was jargon.
The playwright was preoccupied with the fact that Talbot Potter was still on the stage, would
continue there until the rather distant end of the act, and that the "ingenue," after completing
the little run at her exit, had begun to study the manuscript of her part, and in that absorption
had disappeared through a door into the rear passageway. Canby knew that she was not to be
"on" again until the next act, and he followed a desperate impulse.

"See a person," he mumbled, and went out through the lobby, turned south to the cross-street,
proceeded thereby to the stage-door of the theatre, and resolutely crossed the path of the
distrustful man who lounged there.

"Here!" called the distrustful man.

"I'm with the show," said Canby, an expression foreign to his lips and a clear case of inspiration.
The distrustful man waved him on.

Wanda Malone was leaning against the wall at the other end of the passageway, studying her
manuscript. She did not look up until he paused beside her.

"Miss Malone," he began. "I have come--I have come--I have-ah--"

These were his first words to her. She did nothing more than look at him inquiringly, but with
such radiance that he floundered to a stop. There were only two things within his power to
do: he had either to cough or to speak much too sweetly.

"There's a draught here," she said, Christian anxiety roused by the paroxysm which rescued
him from the damning alternative. "You oughtn't to stand here perhaps, Mr. Canby."

"'Canby?'" he repeated inquiringly, the name seeming new to him. "Canby?"

"You're Mr. Canby, aren't you?"

"I meant where--who--" he stammered. "How did you know?"

"The stage-manager pointed you out to me yesterday at rehearsal. I was so excited! You're the
first author I ever saw, you see. I've been in stock where we don't see authors."

"Do you--like it?" he said. "I mean stock. Do you like stock? How much do you like stock? I
ah--" Again he fell back upon the faithful old device of nervous people since the world began.

"I'm sure you oughtn't to stand in this passageway," she urged.

"No, no!" he said hurriedly. "I love it! I love it! I haven't any cold. It's the air. That's
what does it." He nodded brightly, with the expression of a man who knows the answer to everything.
"It's bad for me."

"Then you--"

"No," he said, and went back to the beginning. "I have come--I wanted to come--I wished to
say that I wi--" He put forth a manful effort which made him master of the speech he had planned.
"I want to thank you for the way you play your part. What I wrote seemed dry stuff, but when
you act it, why, then, it seems to be--beautiful!"

"Oh! Do you think so?" she cried, her eyes bedewing ineffably. "Do you think so?"

"Oh--I--oh!--" He got no further, and, although a stranger to the context of this conversation
might have supposed him to be speaking of a celebrated commonwealth, Mother of Presidents,
his meaning was sufficiently clear to Wanda Malone.

"You're lovely to me," she said, wiping her eyes. "Lovely! I'll never forget it! I'll never
forget anything that's happened to me all this beautiful, beautiful week!"

The little kerchief she had lifted to her eyes was wet with tears not of the stage. "It seems
so foolish!" she said bravely. "It's because I'm so happy! Everything has come all at once,
this week. I'd never been in New York before in my life. Doesn't that seem funny for a girl
that's been on the stage ever since she left school? And now I am here, all at once I get this
beautiful part you've written, and you tell me you like it--and Mr. Potter says he likes it.
Oh! Mr. Potter's just beautiful to me! Don't you think Mr. Potter's wonderful, Mr. Canby?"

The truth about Mr. Canby's opinion of Mr. Potter at this moment was not to the playwright's
credit. However, he went only so far as to say: "I didn't like him much yesterday afternoon."

"Oh, no, no!" she said quickly. "That was every bit my fault. I was frightened and it made
me stupid. And he's just beautiful to me to-day! But I'd never mind anything from a man that
works with you as he does. It's the most wonderful thing! To a woman who loves her profession
for its own sake--"

"You do, Miss Malone?"

"Love it?" she cried. "Is there anything like it in the world?"

"I might have known you felt that, from your acting," he said, managing somehow to be coherent,
though it was difficult.

