A BOOK OF GOLDEN DEEDS

BY

CHARLOTTE M YONGE

CONTENTS

What is a Golden Deed? The Stories of Alcestis and Antigone The Cup of Water How One Man has
saved a Host The Pass of Thermopylae The Rock of the Capitol The Two Friends of Syracuse The
Devotion of the Decii Regulus The brave Brethren of Judah The Chief of the Arverni Withstanding
the Monarch in his Wrath The last Fight in the Coliseum The Shepherd Girl of Nanterre Leo the
Slave The Battle of the Blackwater Guzman el Bueno Faithful till Death What is better than
Slaying a Dragon The Keys of Calais The Battle of Sempach The Constant Prince The Carnival
of Perth The Crown of St. Stephen George the Triller Sir Thomas More's Daughter Under Ivan
the Terrible Fort St. Elmo The Voluntary Convict The Housewives of Lowenburg Fathers and Sons
The Soldiers in the Snow Gunpowder Perils Heroes of the Plague The Second of September The Vendeans

PREFACE

As the most striking lines of poetry are the most hackneyed, because they have grown to be
the common inheritance of all the world, so many of the most noble deeds that earth can show
have become the best known, and enjoyed their full meed of fame. Therefore it may be feared
that many of the events here detailed, or alluded to, may seem trite to those in search of
novelty; but it is not for such that the collection has been made. It is rather intended as
a treasury for young people, where they may find minuter particulars than their abridged histories
usually afford of the soul-stirring deeds that give life and glory to the record of events;
and where also other like actions, out of their ordinary course of reading, may be placed before
them, in the trust that example may inspire the spirit of heroism and self-devotion. For surely
it must be a wholesome contemplation to look on actions, the very essence of which is such
entire absorption in others that self is forgotten; the object of which is not to win promotion,
wealth, or success, but simple duty, mercy, and loving-kindness. These are the actions wrought,
'hoping for nothing again', but which most surely have their reward.

The authorities have not been given, as for the most [Page] part the narratives lie on the
surface of history. For the description of the Coliseum, I have, however, been indebted to
the Abbé Gerbet's Rome Chrétienne; for the Housewives of Lowenburg, and St. Stephen's Crown,
to Freytag's Sketches of German Life; and for the story of George the Triller, to Mr. Mayhew's
Germany. The Escape of Attalus is narrated (from Gregory of Tours) in Thierry's 'Lettres sur
l'Histoire de France;' the Russian officer's adventures, and those of Prascovia Lopouloff <http://digital.library.upenn.edu/women/yonge/deeds/pardon.html>,
the true Elisabeth of Siberia, are from M. le Maistre; the shipwrecks chiefly from Gilly's
'Shipwrecks of the British Navy;' the Jersey Powder Magazine from the Annual Registrer, and
that at Ciudad Rodrigo, from the traditions of the 52nd Regiment.

There is a cloud of doubt resting on a few of the tales, which it may be honest to mention,
though they were far too beautiful not to tell. These are the details of the Gallic occupation
of Rome, the Legend of St. Genevieve, the Letter of Gertrude von der Wart, the stories of the
Keys of Calais, of the Dragon of Rhodes, and we fear we must add, both Nelson's plan of the
Battle of the Nile, and likewise the exact form of the heroism of young Casabianca, of which
no two accounts agree. But it was not possible to give up such stories as these, and the thread
of truth there must be in them has developed into such a beautiful tissue, that even if unsubstantial
when tested, it is surely delightful to contemplate.

Some stories have been passed over as too devoid of foundation, in especial that of young Henri,
Duke of Nemours, who, at ten years old, was said to have been hung up with his little brother
of eight in one of Louis XI's cages at Loches, with orders that two of the children's teeth
should daily be pulled out and brought to the king. The elder child was said to have insisted
on giving the whole supply of teeth, so as to save his brother; but though they were certainly
imprisoned after their father's execution, they were released after Louis's death in a condition
which disproves this atrocity.

The Indian mutiny might likewise have supplied glorious instances of Christian self-devotion,
but want of materials has compelled us to stop short of recording those noble deeds by which
delicate women and light- hearted young soldiers showed, that in the hour of need there was
not wanting to them the highest and deepest 'spirit of self-sacrifice.'

At some risk of prolixity, enough of the surrounding events has in general been given to make
the situation comprehensible, even without knowledge of the general history. This has been
done in the hope that these extracts may serve as a mother's storehouse for reading aloud to
her boys, or that they may be found useful for short readings to the intelligent, though uneducated
classes.

NOVEMBER 17, 1864.

WHAT IS A GOLDEN DEED?

We all of us enjoy a story of battle and adventure. Some of us delight in the anxiety and excitement
with which we watch the various strange predicaments, hairbreadth escapes, and ingenious contrivances
that are presented to us; and the mere imaginary dread of the dangers thus depicted, stirs
our feelings and makes us feel eager and full of suspense.

This taste, though it is the first step above the dullness that cannot be interested in anything
beyond its own immediate world, nor care for what it neither sees, touches, tastes, nor puts
to any present use, is still the lowest form that such a liking can take. It may be no better
than a love of reading about murders in the newspaper, just for the sake of a sort of startled
sensation; and it is a taste that becomes unwholesome when it absolutely delights in dwelling
on horrors and cruelties for their own sake; or upon shifty, cunning, dishonest stratagems
and devices. To learn to take interest in what is evil is always mischievous.

But there is an element in many of such scenes of woe and violence that may well account for
our interest in them. It is that which makes the eye gleam and the heart throb, and bears us
through the details of suffering, bloodshed, and even barbarity--feeling our spirits moved
and elevated by contemplating the courage and endurance that they have called forth. Nay, such
is the charm of brilliant valor, that we often are tempted to forget the injustice of the cause
that may have called forth the actions that delight us. And this enthusiasm is often united
with the utmost tenderness of heart, the very appreciation of suffering only quickening the
sense of the heroism that risked the utmost, till the young and ardent learn absolutely to
look upon danger as an occasion for evincing the highest qualities.

'O Life, without thy chequer'd scene Of right and wrong, of weal and woe, Success and failure,
could a ground For magnanimity be found?'

The true cause of such enjoyment is perhaps an inherent consciousness that there is nothing
so noble as forgetfulness of self. Therefore it is that we are struck by hearing of the exposure
of life and limb to the utmost peril, in oblivion, or recklessness of personal safety, in comparison
with a higher object.

That object is sometimes unworthy. In the lowest form of courage it is only avoidance of disgrace;
but even fear of shame is better than mere love of bodily ease, and from that lowest motive
the scale rises to the most noble and precious actions of which human nature is capable--the
truly golden and priceless deeds that are the jewels of history, the salt of life.

And it is a chain of Golden Deeds that we seek to lay before our readers; but, ere entering
upon them, perhaps we had better clearly understand what it is that to our mind constitutes
a Golden Deed.

It is not mere hardihood. There was plenty of hardihood in Pizarro when he led his men through
terrible hardships to attack the empire of Peru, but he was actuated by mere greediness for
gain, and all the perils he so resolutely endured could not make his courage admirable. It
was nothing but insensibility to danger, when set against the wealth and power that he coveted,
and to which he sacrificed thousands of helpless Peruvians. Daring for the sake of plunder
has been found in every robber, every pirate, and too often in all the lower grade of warriors,
from the savage plunderer of a besieged town up to the reckless monarch making war to feed
his own ambition.

There is a courage that breaks out in bravado, the exuberance of high spirits, delighting in
defying peril for its own sake, not indeed producing deeds which deserve to be called golden,
but which, from their heedless grace, their desperation, and absence of all base motives--
except perhaps vanity have an undeniable charm about them, even when we doubt the right of
exposing a life in mere gaiety of heart.

Such was the gallantry of the Spanish knight who, while Fernando and Isabel lay before the
Moorish city of Granada, galloped out of the camp, in full view of besiegers and besieged,
and fastened to the gate of the city with his dagger a copy of the Ave Maria. It was a wildly
brave action, and yet not without service in showing the dauntless spirit of the Christian
army. But the same can hardly be said of the daring shown by the Emperor Maximilian when he
displayed himself to the citizens of Ulm upon the topmost pinnacle of their cathedral spire;
or of Alonso de Ojeda, who figured in like manner upon the tower of the Spanish cathedral.
The same daring afterwards carried him in the track of Columbus, and there he stained his name
with the usual blots of rapacity and cruelty. These deeds, if not tinsel, were little better
than gold leaf.

A Golden Deed must be something more than mere display of fearlessness. Grave and resolute
fulfillment of duty is required to give it the true weight. Such duty kept the sentinel at
his post at the gate of Pompeii, even when the stifling dust of ashes came thicker and thicker
from the volcano, and the liquid mud streamed down, and the people fled and struggled on, and
still the sentry stood at his post, unflinching, till death had stiffened his limbs; and his
bones, in their helmet and breastplate, with the hand still raised to keep the suffocating
dust from mouth and nose, have remained even till our own times to show how a Roman soldier
did his duty. In like manner the last of the old Spanish infantry originally formed by the
Great Captain, Gonzalo de Cordova, were all cut off, standing fast to a man, at the battle
of Rocroy, in 1643, not one man breaking his rank. The whole regiment was found lying in regular
order upon the field of battle, with their colonel, the old Count de Fuentes, at their head,
expiring in a chair, in which he had been carried, because he was too infirm to walk, to this
his twentieth battle. The conqueror, the high-spirited young Duke d'Enghien, afterwards Prince
of Condé, exclaimed, 'Were I not a victor, I should have wished thus to die!' and preserved
the chair among the relics of the bravest of his own fellow countrymen.

Such obedience at all costs and all risks is, however, the very essence of a soldier's life.
An army could not exist without it, a ship could not sail without it, and millions upon millions
of those whose 'bones are dust and good swords are rust' have shown such resolution. It is
the solid material, but it has hardly the exceptional brightness, of a Golden Deed.

And yet perhaps it is one of the most remarkable characteristics of a Golden Deed that the
doer of it is certain to feel it merely a duty; 'I have done that which it was my duty to do'
is the natural answer of those capable of such actions. They have been constrained to them
by duty, or by pity; have never even deemed it possible to act otherwise, and did not once
think of themselves in the matter at all.

For the true metal of a Golden Deed is self-devotion. Selfishness is the dross and alloy that
gives the unsound ring to many an act that has been called glorious. And, on the other hand,
it is not only the valor, which meets a thousand enemies upon the battlefield, or scales the
walls in a forlorn hope, that is of true gold. It may be, but often it is a mere greed of fame,
fear of shame, or lust of plunder. No, it is the spirit that gives itself for others--the temper
that for the sake of religion, of country, of duty, of kindred, nay, of pity even to a stranger,
will dare all things, risk all things, endure all things, meet death in one moment, or wear
life away in slow, persevering tendance and suffering.

Such a spirit was shown by Leaena, the Athenian woman at whose house the overthrow of the tyranny
of the Pisistratids was concerted, and who, when seized and put to the torture that she might
disclose the secrets of the conspirators, fearing that the weakness of her frame might overpower
her resolution, actually bit off her tongue, that she might be unable to betray the trust placed
in her. The Athenians commemorated her truly golden silence by raising in her honor the statue
of a lioness without a tongue, in allusion to her name, which signifies a lioness.

Again, Rome had a tradition of a lady whose mother was in prison under sentence of death by
hunger, but who, at the peril of her own life, visited her daily, and fed her from her own
bosom, until even the stern senate were moved with pity, and granted a pardon. The same story
is told of a Greek lady, called Euphrasia, who thus nourished her father; and in Scotland,
in 1401, when the unhappy heir of the kingdom, David, Duke of Rothesay, had been thrown into
the dungeon of Falkland Castle by his barbarous uncle, the Duke of Albany, there to be starved
to death, his only helper was one poor peasant woman, who, undeterred by fear of the savage
men that guarded the castle, crept, at every safe opportunity, to the grated window on a level
with the ground, and dropped cakes through it to the prisoner, while she allayed his thirst
from her own breast through a pipe. Alas! the visits were detected, and the Christian prince
had less mercy than the heathen senate. Another woman, in 1450, when Sir Gilles of Brittany
was savagely imprisoned and starved in much the same manner by his brother, Duke François,
sustained him for several days by bringing wheat in her veil, and dropping it through the grated
window, and when poison had been used to hasten his death, she brought a priest to the grating
to enable him to make his peace with Heaven. Tender pity made these women venture all things;
and surely their doings were full of the gold of love.

So again two Swiss lads, whose father was dangerously ill, found that they could by no means
procure the needful medicine, except at a price far beyond their means, and heard that an English
traveler had offered a large price for a pair of eaglets. The only eyrie was on a crag supposed
to be so inacessible, that no one ventured to attempt it, till these boys, in their intense
anxiety for their father, dared the fearful danger, scaled the precipice, captured the birds,
and safely conveyed them to the traveler. Truly this was a deed of gold.

Such was the action of the Russian servant whose master's carriage was pursued by wolves, and
who sprang out among the beasts, sacrificing his own life willingly to slake their fury for
a few minutes in order that the horses might be untouched, and convey his master to a place
of safety. But his act of self-devotion has been so beautifully expanded in the story of 'Eric's
Grave', in 'Tales of Christian Heroism', that we can only hint at it, as at that of the 'Helmsman
of Lake Erie', who, with the steamer on fire around him, held fast by the wheel in the very
jaws of the flame, so as to guide the vessel into harbour, and save the many lives within her,
at the cost of his own fearful agony, while slowly scorched by the flames.

Memorable, too, was the compassion that kept Dr. Thompson upon the battlefield of the Alma,
all alone throughout the night, striving to alleviate the sufferings and attend to the wants,
not of our own wounded, but of the enemy, some of whom, if they were not sorely belied, had
been known to requite a friendly act of assistance with a pistol shot. Thus to remain in the
darkness, on a battlefield in an enemy's country, among the enemy themselves, all for pity
and mercy's sake, was one of the noblest acts that history can show. Yet, it was paralleled
in the time of the Indian Mutiny, when every English man and woman was flying from the rage
of the Sepoys at Benares, and Dr. Hay alone remained because he would not desert the patients
in the hospital, whose life depended on his care--many of them of those very native corps who
were advancing to massacre him. This was the Roman sentry's firmness, more voluntary and more
glorious. Nor may we pass by her to whom our title page points as our living type of Golden
Deeds--to her who first showed how woman's ministrations of mercy may be carried on, not only
within the city, but on the borders of the camp itself--'the lady with the lamp', whose health
and strength were freely devoted to the holy work of softening the after sufferings that render
war so hideous; whose very step and shadow carried gladness and healing to the sick soldier,
and who has opened a path of like shining light to many another woman who only needed to be
shown the way. Fitly, indeed, may the figure of Florence Nightingale be shadowed forth at the
opening of our roll of Golden Deeds.

Thanks be to God, there is enough of His own spirit of love abroad in the earth to make Golden
Deeds of no such rare occurrence, but that they are of 'all time'. Even heathen days were not
without them, and how much more should they not abound after the words have been spoken, 'Greater
love hath no man than this, that he lay down his life for his friend', and after the one Great
Deed has been wrought that has consecrated all other deeds of self-sacrifice. Of martyrdoms
we have scarcely spoken. They were truly deeds of the purest gold; but they are too numerous
to be dwelt on here: and even as soldiers deem it each man's simple duty to face death unhesitatingly,
so the 'glorious army of martyrs' had, for the most part, joined the Church with the expectation
that they should have to confess the faith, and confront the extremity of death and torture for it.

What have been here brought together are chiefly cases of self-devotion that stand out remarkably,
either from their hopelessness, their courage, or their patience, varying with the character
of their age; but with that one essential distinction in all, that the dross of self was cast away.

Among these we cannot forbear mentioning the poor American soldier, who, grievously wounded,
had just been laid in the middle bed, by far the most comfortable of the three tiers of berths
in the ship's cabin in which the wounded were to be conveyed to New York. Still thrilling with
the suffering of being carried from the field, and lifted to his place, he saw a comrade in
even worse plight brought in, and thinking of the pain it must cost his fellow soldier to be
raised to the bed above him, he surprised his kind lady nurses (daily scatterers of Golden
Deeds) by saying, 'Put me up there, I reckon I'll bear hoisting better than he will'.

And, even as we write, we hear of an American Railway collision that befell a train on the
way to Elmira with prisoners. The engineer, whose name was William Ingram, might have leapt
off and saved himself before the shock; but he remained in order to reverse the engine, though
with certain death staring him in the face. He was buried in the wreck of the meeting train,
and when found, his back was against the boiler he was jammed in, unable to move, and actually
being burnt to death; but even in that extremity of anguish he called out to those who came
round to help him to keep away, as he expected the boiler would burst. They disregarded the
generous cry, and used every effort to extricate him, but could not succeed until after his
sufferings had ended in death.

While men and women still exist who will thus suffer and thus die, losing themselves in the
thought of others, surely the many forms of woe and misery with which this earth is spread
do but give occasions of working out some of the highest and best qualities of which mankind
are capable. And oh, young readers, if your hearts burn within you as you read of these various
forms of the truest and deepest glory, and you long for time and place to act in the like devoted
way, bethink yourselves that the alloy of such actions is to be constantly worked away in daily
life; and that if ever it be your lot to do a Golden Deed, it will probably be in unconsciousness
that you are doing anything extraordinary, and that the whole impulse will consist in the having
absolutely forgotten self.

THE STORIES OF ALCESTIS AND ANTIGONE

It has been said, that even the heathens saw and knew the glory of self- devotion; and the
Greeks had two early instances so very beautiful that, though they cannot in all particulars
be true, they must not be passed over. There must have been some foundation for them, though
we cannot now disentangle them from the fable that has adhered to them; and, at any rate, the
ancient Greeks believed them, and gathered strength and nobleness from dwelling on such examples;
since, as it has been truly said, 'Every word, look or thought of sympathy with heroic action,
helps to make heroism'. Both tales were presented before them in their solemn religious tragedies,
and the noble poetry in which they were recounted by the great Greek dramatists has been preserved
to our time.

Alcestis was the wife of Admetus, King of Pherae, who, according to the legend, was assured
that his life might be prolonged, provided father, mother, or wife would die in his stead.
It was Alcestis alone who was willing freely to give her life to save that of her husband;
and her devotion is thus exquisitely described in the following translation, by Professor Anstice,
from the choric song in the tragedy by Euripides:

'Be patient, for thy tears are vain
They may not wake the dead again:
E'en heroes, of immortal sire
And mortal mother born, expire.
    Oh, she was dear
    While she linger'd here;
She is dear now she rests below,
    And thou mayst boast
    That the bride thou hast lost
Was the noblest earth can show.

'We will not look on her burial sod
  As the cell of sepulchral sleep,
It shall be as the shrine of a radiant god,
And the pilgrim shall visit that blest abode
  To worship, and not to weep;
And as he turns his steps aside,
  Thus shall he breathe his vow:
'Here sleeps a self-devoted bride,
Of old to save her lord she died.
    She is a spirit now.

Hail, bright and blest one! grant to me The smiles of glad prosperity.' Thus shall he own her
name divine, Thus bend him at Alcestis' shrine.'

The story, however, bore that Hercules, descending in the course of one of his labors into
the realms of the dead, rescued Alcestis, and brought her back; and Euripides gives a scene
in which the rough, jovial Hercules insists on the sorrowful Admetus marrying again a lady
of his own choice, and gives the veiled Alcestis back to him as the new bride. Later Greeks
tried to explain the story by saying that Alcestis nursed her husband through an infectious
fever, caught it herself, and had been supposed to be dead, when a skilful physician restored
her; but this is probably only one of the many reasonable versions they tried to give of the
old tales that were founded on the decay and revival of nature in winter and spring, and with
a presage running through them of sacrifice, death, and resurrection. Our own poet Chaucer
was a great admirer of Alcestis, and improved upon the legend by turning her into his favorite
flower---

'The daisie or els the eye of the daie, The emprise and the floure of flouris all'.

Another Greek legend told of the maiden of Thebes, one of the most self- devoted beings that
could be conceived by a fancy untrained in the knowledge of Divine Perfection. It cannot be
known how much of her story is true, but it was one that went deep into the hearts of Grecian
men and women, and encouraged them in some of their best feelings; and assuredly the deeds
imputed to her were golden.

Antigone was the daughter of the old King Oedipus of Thebes. After a time heavy troubles, the
consequence of the sins of his youth, came upon him, and he was driven away from his kingdom,
and sent to wander forth a blind old man, scorned and pointed at by all. Then it was that his
faithful daughter showed true affection for him. She might have remained at Thebes with her
brother Eteocles, who had been made king in her father's room, but she chose instead to wander
forth with the forlorn old man, fallen from his kingly state, and absolutely begging his bread.
The great Athenian poet Sophocles began his tragedy of 'Oedipus Coloneus' with showing the
blind old king leaning on Antigone's arm, and asking--

'Tell me, thou daughter of a blind old man,
Antigone, to what land are we come,
Or to what city? Who the inhabitants
Who with a slender pittance will relieve
Even for a day the wandering Oedipus?'
                                  POTTER.

The place to which they had come was in Attica, hear the city of Colonus. It was a lovely grove--

'All the haunts of Attic ground,
Where the matchless coursers bound,
Boast not, through their realms of bliss,
Other spot so fair as this.
Frequent down this greenwood dale
Mourns the warbling nightingale,
Nestling 'mid the thickest screen
Of the ivy's darksome green,
Or where each empurpled shoot
Drooping with its myriad fruit,
Curl'd in many a mazy twine,
Droops the never-trodden vine.'
                           ANSTICE.

This beautiful grove was sacred to the Eumenides, or avenging goddesses, and it was therefore
a sanctuary where no foot might tread; but near it the exiled king was allowed to take up his
abode, and was protected by the great Athenian King, Theseus. There his other daughter, Ismene,
joined him, and, after a time, his elder son Polynices, arrived.

Polynices had been expelled from Thebes by his brother Eteocles, and had been wandering through
Greece seeking aid to recover his rights. He had collected an army, and was come to take leave
of his father and sisters; and at the same time to entreat his sisters to take care that, if
he should fall in the battle, they would prevent his corpse from being left unburied; for the
Greeks believed that till the funeral rites were performed, the spirit went wandering restlessly
up and down upon the banks of a dark stream, unable to enter the home of the dead.  Antigone
solemnly promised to him that he should not be left without these last rites. Before long,
old Oedipus was killed by lightning, and the two sisters returned to Thebes.

The united armies of the seven chiefs against Thebes came on, led by Polynices. Eteocles sallied
out to meet them, and there was a terrible battle, ending in all the seven chiefs being slain,
and the two brothers, Eteocles and Polynices, were killed by one another in single combat.
Creon, the uncle, who thus became king, had always been on the side of Eteocles, and therefore
commanded that whilst this younger brother was entombed with all due solemnities, the body
of the elder should be left upon the battlefield to be torn by dogs and vultures, and that
whosoever durst bury it should be treated as a rebel and a traitor to the state.

This was the time for the sister to remember her oath to her dead brother. The more timid Ismene
would have dissuaded her, but she answered,

'To me no sufferings have that hideous form Which can affright me from a glorious death'.

And she crept forth by night, amid all the horrors of the deserted field of battles, and herself
covered with loose earth the corpse of Polynices. The barbarous uncle caused it to be taken
up and again exposed, and a watch was set at some little distance. Again Antigone

'Was seen, lamenting shrill with plaintive notes,
Like the poor bird that sees her lonely nest
           Spoil'd of her young'.

Again she heaped dry dust with her own hands over the body, and poured forth the libations
of wine that formed an essential part of the ceremony. She was seized by the guard, and led
before Creon. She boldly avowed her deed, and, in spite of the supplications of Ismene, she
was put to death, a sufferer for her noble and pious deeds; and with this only comfort:

        'Glowing at my heart
I feel this hope, that to my father, dear
And dear to thee, my mother, dear to thee,
My brother, I shall go.'
                                     POTTER.

Dim and beautiful indeed was the hope that upbore the grave and beautiful Theban maiden; and
we shall see her resolution equaled, though hardly surpassed, by Christian Antigones of equal
love and surer faith.

THE CUP OF WATER

No touch in the history of the minstrel king David gives us a more warm and personal feeling
towards him than his longing for the water of the well of Bethlehem. Standing as the incident
does in the summary of the characters of his mighty men, it is apt to appear to us as if it
had taken place in his latter days; but such is not the case, it befell while he was still
under thirty, in the time of his persecution by Saul.

It was when the last attempt at reconciliation with the king had been made, when the affectionate
parting with the generous and faithful Jonathan had taken place, when Saul was hunting him
like a partridge on the mountains on the one side, and the Philistines had nearly taken his
life on the other, that David, outlawed, yet loyal at the heart, sent his aged parents to the
land of Moab for refuge, and himself took up his abode in the caves of the wild limestone hills
that had become familiar to him when he was a shepherd. Brave captain and Heaven-destined king
as he was, his name attracted around him a motley group of those that were in distress, or
in debt, or discontented, and among them were the 'mighty men' whose brave deeds won them the
foremost parts in that army with which David was to fulfill the ancient promises to his people.
There were his three nephews, Joab, the ferocious and imperious, the chivalrous Abishai, and
Asahel the fleet of foot; there was the warlike Levite Benaiah, who slew lions and lionlike
men, and others who, like David himself, had done battle with the gigantic sons of Anak. Yet
even these valiant men, so wild and lawless, could be kept in check by the voice of their young
captain; and, outlaws as they were, they spoiled no peaceful villages, they lifted not their
hands against the persecuting monarch, and the neighboring farms lost not one lamb through
their violence. Some at least listened to the song of their warlike minstrel:

'Come, ye children, and hearken to me, I will teach you the fear of the Lord.

But the Eastern sun burnt on the bare rocks. A huge fissure, opening in the mountain ridge,
encumbered at the bottom with broken rocks, with precipitous banks, scarcely affording a foothold
for the wild goats--- such is the spot where, upon a cleft on the steep precipice, still remain
the foundations of the 'hold', or tower, believed to have been the David's retreat, and near
at hand is the low-browed entrance of the galleried cave alternating between narrow passages
and spacious halls, but all oppressively hot and close. Waste and wild, without a bush or a
tree, in the feverish atmosphere of Palestine, it was a desolate region, and at length the
wanderer's heart fainted in him, as he thought of his own home, with its rich and lovely terraced
slopes, green with wheat, trellised with vines, and clouded with grey olive, and of the cool
cisterns of living water by the gate of which he loved to sing--

'He shall feed me in a green pasture, And lead me forth beside the waters of comfort'.

His parched longing lips gave utterance to the sigh, 'Oh that one would give me to drink of
the water of the well of Bethlehem that is by the gate?'

Three of his brave men, apparently Abishai, Benaiah, and Eleazar, heard the wish.  Between
their mountain fastness and the dearly loved spring lay the host of the Philistines; but their
love for their leader feared no enemies. It was not only water that he longed for, but the
water from the fountain which he had loved in his childhood. They descended from their chasm,
broke through the midst of the enemy's army, and drew the water from the favorite spring, bearing
it back, once again through the foe, to the tower upon the rock! Deeply moved was their chief
at this act of self-devotion--so much moved that the water seemed to him to be too sacred to
be put to his own use. 'May God forbid it me that I should do this thing.

In later times we meet with another hero, who by his personal qualities inspired something
of the same enthusiastic attachment as did David, and who met with an adventure somewhat similar,
showing the like nobleness of mind on the part of both leader and followers.

It was Alexander of Macedon, whose character as a man, with all its dark shades of violence,
rage, and profanity, has a nobleness and sweetness that win our hearts, while his greatness
rests on a far broader basis than that of his conquests, though they are unrivalled. No one
else so gained the love of the conquered, had such wide and comprehensive views for the amelioration
of the world, or rose so superior to the prejudice of race; nor have any ten years left so
lasting a trace upon the history of the world as those of his career.

It is not, however, of his victories that we are here to speak, but of his return march from
the banks of the Indus, in BC 326, when he had newly recovered from the severe wound which
he had received under the fig tree, within the mud wall of the city of the Malli. This expedition
was as much the expedition of a discoverer as the journey of a conqueror: and, at the mouth
of the Indus, he sent his ships to survey the coasts of the Indian Ocean and Persian Gulf,
while he himself marched along the shore of the province, then called Gedrosia, and now Mekhran.
It was a most dismal tract. Above towered mountains of reddish- brown bare stone, treeless
and without verdure, the scanty grass produced in the summer being burnt up long before September,
the month of his march; and all the slope below was equally desolate slopes of gravel. The
few inhabitants were called by the Greeks fish-eaters and turtle-eaters, because there was
apparently, nothing else to eat; and their huts were built of turtle shells.

The recollections connected with the region were dismal. Semiramis and Cyrus were each said
to have lost an army there through hunger and thirst; and these foes, the most fatal foes of
the invader, began to attack the Greek host. Nothing but the discipline and all-pervading influence
of Alexander could have borne his army through. Speed was their sole chance; and through the
burning sun, over the arid rock, he stimulated their steps with his own high spirit of unshrinking
endurance, till he had dragged them through one of the most rapid and extraordinary marches
of his wonderful career. His own share in their privations was fully and freely taken; and
once when, like the rest, he was faint with heat and deadly thirst, a small quantity of water,
won with great fatigue and difficulty, was brought to him, he esteemed it too precious to be
applied to his own refreshment, but poured it forth as a libation, lest, he said, his warriors
should thirst the more when they saw him drink alone; and, no doubt, too, because he felt the
exceeding value of that which was purchased by loyal love. A like story is told of Rodolf of
Hapsburgh, the founder of the greatness of Austria, and one of the most open-hearted of men.
A flagon of water was brought to him when his army was suffering from severe drought. 'I cannot,'
he said, 'drink alone, nor can all share so small a quantity. I do not thirst for myself, but
for my whole army.'

Yet there have been thirsty lips that have made a still more trying renunciation. Our own Sir
Philip Sidney, riding back, with the mortal hurt in his broken thigh, from the fight at Zutphen,
and giving the draught from his own lips to the dying man whose necessities were greater than
his own, has long been our proverb for the giver of that self-denying cup of water that shall
by no means lose its reward.

A tradition of an act of somewhat the same character survived in a Slesvig family, now extinct.
It was during the wars that ranged from 1652 to 1660, between Frederick III of Denmark and
Charles Gustavus of Sweden, that, after a battle, in which the victory had remained with the
Danes, a stout burgher of Flensborg was about to refresh himself, ere retiring to have his
wounds dressed, with a draught of beer from a wooden bottle, when an imploring cry from a wounded
Swede, lying on the field, made him turn, and, with the very words of Sidney, 'Thy need is
greater than mine,' he knelt down by the fallen enemy, to pour the liquor into his mouth. His
requital was a pistol shot in the shoulder from the treacherous Swede. 'Rascal,' he cried,
'I would have befriended you, and you would murder me in return! Now I will punish you. I would
have given you the whole bottle; but now you shall have only half.' And drinking off half himself,
he gave the rest to the Swede. The king, hearing the story, sent for the burgher, and asked
him how he came to spare the life of such a rascal.

'Sire,' said the honest burgher, 'I could never kill a wounded enemy.'

'Thou meritest to be a noble,' the king said, and created him one immediately, giving him as
armorial bearings a wooden bottle pierced with an arrow! The family only lately became extinct
in the person of an old maiden lady.

HOW ONE MAN HAS SAVED A HOST

B.C. 507

