Montague had never been able to get over his wonder at the social phenomenon known as Mrs.
Devon. He came and took his chances in the jostling throngs; and except that he got into casual
conversation with one of the numerous detectives whom he took for a guest he came off fairly
well. But all the time that he was being passed about and introduced and danced with, he was
looking about him and wondering. The grand staircase and the hall and parlours had been turned
into tropical gardens, with palms and trailing vines, and azaleas and roses, and great vases
of scarlet poinsettia, with hundreds of lights glowing through them. (It was said that this
ball had exhausted the flower supply of the country as far south as Atlanta.) And then in the
reception room one came upon the little old lady, standing' beneath a bower of orchids. She
was clad in a robe of royal purple trimmed with silver, and girdled about with an armour-plate
of gems. If one might credit the papers, the diamonds that were worn at one of these balls
were valued at twenty million dollars.

The stranger was quite overwhelmed by all the splendour. There was a cotillion danced by two
hundred gorgeously clad women and their partners--a scene so gay that one could only think
of it as happening in a fairy legend, or some old romance of knighthood. Four sets of favours
were given during this function, and jewels and objects of art were showered forth as if from
a magician's wand. Mrs. Devon herself soon disappeared, but the riot of music and merry-making
went on until near morning, and during all this time the halls and rooms of the great mansion
were so crowded that one could scarcely move about.

Then one went home, and realized that all this splendour, and the human effort which it represented,
had been for nothing but a memory! Nor would he get the full meaning of it if he failed to
realize that it was simply one of thousands--a pattern which every one there would strive to
follow in some function of his own. It was a signal bell, which told the world that the "season"
was open. It loosed the floodgates of extravagance, and the torrent of dissipation poured forth.
From then on there would be a continuous round of gaieties; one might have three banquets every
single night--for a dinner and two suppers was now the custom, at entertainments! And filling
the rest of one's day were receptions and teas and musicales--a person might take his choice
among a score of opportunities, and never leave the circle he met at Mrs. Devon's. Nor was
this counting the tens of thousands of aspirants and imitators all over the city; nor in a
host of other cities, each with thousands of women who had nothing to do save to ape the ways
of the Metropolis. The mind could not realize the volume of this deluge of destruction--it
was a thing which stunned the senses, and thundered in one's ears like Niagara.

The meaning of it all did not stop with the people who poured it forth; its effects were to
be traced through the whole country. There were hordes of tradesmen and manufacturers who supplied
what Society bought, and whose study it was to induce people to buy as much as possible. And
so they devised what were called "fashions"--little eccentricities of cut and material, which
made everything go out of date quickly. There had once been two seasons, but now there were
four; and through window displays and millions of advertisements the public was lured into
the trap. The "yellow" journals would give whole pages to describing "What the 400 are wearing";
there were magazines with many millions of readers, which existed for nothing save to propagate
these ideas. And everywhere, in all classes of Society, men and women were starving their minds
and hearts, and straining their energies to follow this phantom of fashion; the masses were
kept poor because of it, and the youth and hope of the world was betrayed by it. In country
villages poor farmers' wives were trimming their bonnets over to be "stylish"; and servant-girls
in the cities were wearing imitation sealskins, and shop-clerks and sempstresses selling themselves
into brothels for the sake of ribbons and gilt jewellery.

It was the instinct of decoration, perverted by the money-lust. In the Metropolis the sole
test of excellence was money, and the possession of money was the proof of power; and every
natural desire of men and women had been tainted by this influence. The love of beauty, the
impulse to hospitality, the joys of music and dancing and love--all these things had become
simply means to the demonstration of money-power! The men were busy making more money--but
their idle women had nothing in life save this mad race in display. So it had come about that
the woman who could consume wealth most conspicuously--who was the most effective instrument
for the destroying of the labour and the lives of other people--this was the woman who was
most applauded and most noticed.

The most appalling fact about Society was this utter blind materialism. Such expectations as
Montague had brought with him had been derived from the literature of Europe; in a grand monde
such as this, he expected to meet diplomats and statesmen, scientists and explorers, philosophers
and poets and painters. But one never heard anything about such people in Society. It was a
mark of eccentricity to be interested in intellectual affairs, and one might go about for weeks
and not meet a person with an idea. When these people read, it was a sugar-candy novel, and
when they went to the play, it was a musical comedy. The one single intellectual product which
it could point to as its own, was a rancid scandal-sheet, used mainly as a means of blackmail.
Now and then some aspiring young matron of the "elite" would try to set up a salon after the
fashion of the continent, and would gather a few feeble wits about her for a time. But for
the most part the intellectual workers of the city held themselves severely aloof; and Society
was left a little clique of people whose fortunes had become historic in a decade or two, and
who got together in each other's palaces and gorged themselves, and gambled and gossiped about
each other, and wove about their personalities a veil of awful and exclusive majesty.

Montague found himself thinking that perhaps it was not they who were to blame. It was not
they who had set up wealth as the end and goal of things--it was the whole community, of which
they were a part. It was not their fault that they had been left with power and nothing to
use it for; it was not their fault that their sons and daughters found themselves stranded
in the world, deprived of all necessity, and of the possibility of doing anything useful.

The most pitiful aspect of the whole thing to Montague was this "second generation" who were
coming upon the scene, with their lives all poisoned in advance. No wrong which they could
do to the world would ever equal the wrong which the world had done them, in permitting them
to have money which they had not earned. They were cut off for ever from reality, and from
the possibility of understanding life; they had big, healthy bodies, and they craved experience--and
they had absolutely nothing to do. That was the real meaning of all this orgy of dissipation--this
"social whirl" as it was called; it was the frantic chase of some new thrill, some excitement
that would stir the senses of people who had nothing in the world to interest them. That was
why they were building palaces, and flinging largesses of banquets and balls, and tearing about
the country in automobiles, and travelling over the earth in steam yachts and private trains.

And first and last, the lesson of their efforts was, that the chase was futile; the jaded nerves
would not thrill. The most conspicuous fact about Society was its unutterable and agonizing
boredom; of its great solemn functions the shop-girl would read with greedy envy, but the women
who attended them would be half asleep behind their jewelled fans. It was typified to Montague
by Mrs. Billy Alden's yachting party on the Nile; yawning in the face of the Sphinx, and playing
bridge beneath the shadow of the pyramids--and counting the crocodiles and proposing to jump
in by way of "changing the pain"!

People attended these ceaseless rounds of entertainments, simply because they dreaded to be
left alone. They wandered from place to place, following like a herd of sheep whatever leader
would inaugurate a new diversion. One could have filled a volume with the list of their "fads."
There were new ones every week--if Society did not invent them, the yellow journals invented
them. There was a woman who had her teeth filled with diamonds; and another who was driving
a pair of zebras. One heard of monkey dinners and pyjama dinners at Newport, of horseback dinners
and vegetable dances in New York. One heard of fashion-albums and autograph-fans and talking
crows and rare orchids and reindeer meat; of bracelets for men and ankle rings for women; of
"vanity-boxes" at ten and twenty thousand dollars each; of weird and repulsive pets, chameleons
and lizards and king-snakes--there was one young woman who wore a cat-snake as a necklace.
One would take to slumming and another to sniffing brandy through the nose; one had a table-cover
made of woven roses, and another was wearing perfumed flannel at sixteen dollars a yard; one
had inaugurated ice-skating in August, and another had started a class for the study of Plato.
Some were giving tennis tournaments in bathing-suits, and playing leap-frog after dinner; others
had got dispensations from the Pope, so that they might have private chapels and confessors;
and yet others were giving "progressive dinners," moving from one restaurant to another--a
cocktail and blue-points at Sherry's, a soup and Madeira at Delmonico's, some terrapin with
amontillado at the Waldorf--and so on.

One of the consequences of the furious pace was that people's health broke down very quickly;
and there were all sorts of bizarre ways of restoring it. One person would be eating nothing
but spinach, and another would be living on grass. One would chew a mouthful of soup thirty-two
times; another would eat every two hours, and another only once a week. Some went out in the
early morning and walked bare-footed in the grass, and others went hopping about the floor
on their hands and knees to take off fat. There were "rest cures" and "water cures," "new thought"
and "metaphysical healing" and "Christian Science"; there was an automatic horse, which one
might ride indoors, with a register showing the distance travelled. Montague met one man who
had an electric machine, which cost thirty thousand dollars, and which took hold of his arms
and feet and exercised him while he waited. He met a woman who told him she was riding an electric
camel!

Everywhere one went there were new people, spending their money in new and incredible ways.
Here was a man who had bought a chapel and turned it into a theatre, and hired professional
actors, and persuaded his friends to come and see him act Shakespeare. Here was a woman who
costumed herself after figures in famous paintings, with arrangements of roses and cherry leaves,
and wreaths of ivy and laurel--and with costumes for her pet dogs to match! Here was a man
who paid six dollars a day for a carnation four inches across; and a girl who wore a hat trimmed
with fresh morning-glories, and a ball costume with swarms of real butterflies tied with silk
threads; and another with a hat made of woven silver, with ostrich plumes forty inches long
made entirely of silver films. Here was a man who hired a military company to drill all day
long to prepare a floor for dancing; and another who put up a building at a cost of thirty
thousand dollars to give a débutante dance for his daughter, and then had it torn down the
day after. Here was a man who bred rattlesnakes and turned them loose by thousands, and had
driven everybody away from the North Carolina estate of one of the Wallings. Here was a man
who was building himself a yacht with a model dairy and bakery on board, and a French laundry
and a brass band. Here was a million-dollar racing-yacht with auto-boats on it and a platoon
of marksmen, and some Chinese laundrymen, and two physicians for its half-insane occupant.
Here was a man who had bought a Rhine castle for three-quarters of a million, and spent as
much in restoring it, and filled it with servants dressed in fourteenth-century costumes. Here
was a five-million-dollar art collection hidden away where nobody ever saw it!

One saw the meaning of this madness most clearly in the young men of Society. Some were killing
themselves and other people in automobile races at a hundred and twenty miles an hour. Some
went in for auto-boats, mere shells of things, shaped like a knife-blade, that tore through
the water at forty miles an hour. Some would hire professional pugilists to knock them out;
others would get up dog-fights and bear-fights, and boxing matches with kangaroos. Montague
was taken to the home of one young man who had given his life to hunting wild game in every
corner of the globe, and would travel round the world for a new species to add to his museum
of trophies. He had heard that Baron Rothschild had offered a thousand pounds for a "bongo,"
a huge grass-eating animal, which no white man had ever seen; and he had taken a year's trip
into the interior, with a train of a hundred and thirty natives, and had brought out the heads
of forty different species, including a bongo--which the Baron did not get! He met another
who had helped to organize a balloon club, and two twenty-four-hour trips in the clouds. (This,
by the way, was the latest sport--at Tuxedo they had races between balloons and automobiles;
and Montague met one young lady who boasted that she had been up five times.) There was another
young millionaire who sat and patiently taught Sunday School, in the presence of a host of
reporters; there was another who set up a chain of newspapers all over the country and made
war upon his class. There were others who went in for settlement work and Russian revolutionists--there
were even some who called themselves Socialists! Montague thought that this was the strangest
fad of all; and when he met one of these young men at an afternoon tea, he gazed at him with
wonder and perplexity--thinking of the man he had heard ranting on the street-corner.

This was the "second generation." Appalling as it was to think of, there was a third growing
up, and getting ready to take the stage. And with wealth accumulating faster than ever, who
could guess what they might do? There were still in Society a few men and women who had earned
their money, and had some idea of the toil and suffering that it stood for; but when the third
generation had taken possession, these would all be dead or forgotten, and there would no longer
be any link to connect them with reality!

In the light of this thought one was moved to watch the children of the rich. Some of these
had inherited scores of millions of dollars while they were still in the cradle; now and then
one of them would be presented with a million-dollar house for a birthday gift. When such a
baby was born, the newspapers would give pages to describing its layette, with baby dresses
at a hundred dollars each, and lace handkerchiefs at five dollars, and dressing-sets with tiny
gold brushes and powder-boxes; one might see a picture of the precious object in a "Moses basket,"
covered with rare and wonderful Valenciennes lace.

This child would grow up in an atmosphere of luxury and self-indulgence; it would be bullying
the servants at the age of six, and talking scandal and smoking cigarettes at twelve. It would
be petted and admired and stared at, and paraded about in state, dressed up like a French doll;
it would drink in snobbery and hatefulness with the very air it breathed. One might meet in
these great houses little tots not yet in their teens whose talk was all of the cost of things,
and of the inferiority of their neighbours. There was nothing in the world too good for them.--They
had little miniature automobiles to ride about the country in, and blooded Arabian ponies,
and doll-houses in real Louis Seize, with jewelled rugs and miniature electric lights. At Mrs.
Caroline Smythe's, Montague was introduced to a pale and anaemic-looking youth of thirteen,
who dined in solemn state alone when the rest of the family was away, and insisted upon having
all the footmen in attendance; and his unfortunate aunt brought a storm about her ears by forbidding
the butler to take champagne upstairs into the nursery before lunch.

A little remark stayed in Montague's mind as expressing the attitude of Society toward such
matters. Major Venable had chanced to remark jestingly that children were coming to understand
so much nowadays that it was necessary for the ladies to be careful. To which Mrs. Vivie Patton
answered, with a sudden access of seriousness: "I don't know--do you find that children have
any morals? Mine haven't."

And then the fascinating Mrs. Vivie went on to tell the truth about her own children. They
were natural-born savages, and that was all there was to it. They did as they pleased, and
no one could stop them. The Major replied that nowadays all the world was doing as it pleased,
and no one seemed to be able to stop it; and with that jest the conversation was turned to
other matters. But Montague sat in silence, thinking about it--wondering what would happen
to the world when it had fallen under the sway of this generation of spoiled children, and
had adopted altogether the religion of doing as one pleased.

In the beginning people had simply done as they pleased spontaneously, and without thinking
about it; but now, Montague discovered, the custom had spread to such an extent that it was
developing a philosophy. There was springing up a new cult, whose devotees were planning to
make over the world upon the plan of doing as one pleased. Because its members were wealthy,
and able to command the talent of the world, the cult was developing an art, with a highly
perfected technique, and a literature which was subtle and exquisite and alluring. Europe had
had such a literature for a century, and England for a generation or two. And now America was
having it, too!

Montague had an amusing insight into this one day, when Mrs. Vivie invited him to one of her
"artistic evenings." Mrs. Vivie was in touch with a special set which went in for intellectual
things, and included some amateur Bohemians and men of "genius." "Don't you come if you'll
be shocked," she had said to him--"for Strathcona will be there."

Montague deemed himself able to stand a good deal by this time. He went, and found Mrs. Vivie
and her Count (Mr. Vivie had apparently not been invited) and also the young poet of Diabolism,
whose work was just then the talk of the town. He was a tall, slender youth with a white face
and melancholy black eyes, and black locks falling in cascades about his ears; he sat in an
Oriental corner, with a manuscript copied in tiny handwriting upon delicately scented "art
paper," and tied with passionate purple ribbons. A young girl clad in white sat by his side
and held a candle, while he read from this manuscript his unprinted (because unprintable) verses.

And between the readings the young poet talked. He talked about himself and his work--apparently
that was what he had come to talk about. His words flowed like a swift stream, limpid, sparkling,
incessant; leaping from place to place--here, there, quick as the play of light upon the water.
Montague laboured to follow the speaker's ideas, until he found his mind in a whirl and gave
it up. Afterward, when he thought it over, he laughed at himself; for Strathcona's ideas were
not serious things, having relationship to truth--they were epigrams put together to dazzle
the hearer, studies in paradox, with as much relation to life as fireworks. He took the sum-total
of the moral experience of the human race, and turned it upside down and jumbled it about,
and used it as bits of glass in a kaleidoscope. And the hearers would gasp, and whisper, "Diabolical!"

The motto of this "school" of poets was that there was neither good nor evil, but that all
things were "interesting." After listening to Strathcona for half an hour, one felt like hiding
his head, and denying that he had ever thought of having any virtue; in a world where all things
were uncertain, it was presumptuous even to pretend to know what virtue was. One could only
be what one was; and did not that mean that one must do as one pleased?

You could feel a shudder run through the company at his audacity. And the worst of it was that
you could not dismiss it with a laugh; for the boy was really a poet--he had fire and passion,
the gift of melodious ecstacy. He was only twenty, and in his brief meteor flight he had run
the gamut of all experience; he had familiarized himself with all human achievement--past,
present, and future. There was nothing any one could mention that he did not perfectly comprehend:
the raptures of the saints, the consecration of the martyrs--yes, he had known them; likewise
he had touched the depths of depravity, he had been lost in the innermost passages of the caverns
of hell. And all this had been interesting--in its time; now he was sighing for new worlds
of experience--say for unrequited love, which should drive him to madness.

It was at this point that Montague dropped out of the race, and took to studying from the outside
the mechanism of this young poet's conversation. Strathcona flouted the idea of a moral sense;
but in reality he was quite dependent upon it--his recipe for making epigrams was to take what
other people's moral sense made them respect, and identify it with something which their moral
sense made them abhor. Thus, for instance, the tale which he told about one of the members
of his set, who was a relative of a bishop. The great man had occasion to rebuke him for his
profligate ways, declaring in the course of his lecture that he was living off the reputation
of his father; to which the boy made the crushing rejoinder: "It may be bad to live off the
reputation of one's father, but it's better than living off the reputation of God."--This was
very subtle and it was necessary to ponder it. God was dead; and the worthy bishop did not
know it! But let him take a new God, who had no reputation, and go out into the world and make
a living out of him!

Then Strathcona discussed literature. He paid his tribute to the "Fleurs de Mal" and the "Songs
before Sunrise"; but most, he said, he owed to "the divine Oscar." This English poet of many
poses and some vices the law had seized and flung into jail; and since the law is a thing so
brutal and wicked that whoever is touched by it is made thereby a martyr and a hero, there
had grown up quite a cult about the memory of "Oscar." All up-to-date poets imitated his style
and his attitude to life; and so the most revolting of vices had the cloak of romance flung
about them--were given long Greek and Latin names, and discussed with parade of learning as
revivals of Hellenic ideals. The young men in Strathcona's set referred to each other as their
"lovers"; and if one showed any perplexity over this, he was regarded, not with contempt--for
it was not aesthetic to feel contempt--but with a slight lifting of the eyebrows, intended
to annihilate.

One must not forget, of course, that these young people were poets, and to that extent were
protected from their own doctrines. They were interested, not in life, but in making pretty
verses about life; there were some among them who lived as cheerful ascetics in garret rooms,
and gave melodious expression to devilish emotions. But, on the other hand, for every poet,
there were thousands who were not poets, but people to whom life was real. And these lived
out the creed, and wrecked their lives; and with the aid of the poet's magic, the glamour of
melody and the fire divine, they wrecked the lives with which they came into contact. The new
generation of boys and girls were deriving their spiritual sustenance from the poetry of Baudelaire
and Wilde; and rushing with the hot impulsiveness of youth into the dreadful traps which the
traders in vice prepared for them. One's heart bled to see them, pink-cheeked and bright-eyed,
pursuing the hem of the Muse's robe in brothels and dens of infamy!

CHAPTER XVII

The social mill ground on for another month. Montague withdrew himself as much as his brother
would let him; but Alice, was on the go all night and half the day. Oliver had sold his racing
automobile to a friend--he was a man of family now, he said, and his wild days were over. He
had got, instead, a limousine car for Alice; though she declared she had no need of it--if
ever she was going to any place, Charlie Carter always begged her to use his. Charlie's siege
was as persistent as ever, as Montague noticed with annoyance.

The great law case was going forward. After weeks of study and investigation, Montague felt
that he had the matter well in hand; and he had taken Mr. Hasbrook's memoranda as a basis for
a new work of his own, much more substantial. Bit by bit; as he dug into the subject, he had
discovered a state of affairs in the Fidelity Company, and, indeed, in the whole insurance
business and its allied realms of banking and finance, which shocked him profoundly. It was
impossible for him to imagine how such conditions could exist and remain unknown to the public--more
especially as every one in Wall Street with whom he talked seemed to know about them and to
take them for granted.

His client's papers had provided him with references to the books; Montague had taken this
dry material and made of it a protest which had the breath of life in it. It was a thing at
which he toiled with deadly earnestness; it was not merely a struggle of one man to get a few
thousand dollars, it was an appeal in behalf of millions of helpless people whose trust had
been betrayed. It was the first step in a long campaign, which the young lawyer meant should
force a great evil into the light of day.

He went over his bill of complaint with Mr. Hasbrook, and he was glad to see that the work
he had done made its impression upon him. In fact, his client was a little afraid that some
of his arguments might be too radical in tone--from the strictly legal point of view, he made
haste to explain. But Montague reassured him upon this point.

And then came the day when the great ship was ready for launching. The news must have spread
quickly, for a few hours after the papers in the suit had been filed, Montague received a call
from a newspaper reporter, who told him of the excitement in financial circles, where the thing
had fallen like a bomb. Montague explained the purpose of the suit, and gave the reporter a
number of facts which he felt certain would attract attention to the matter. When he picked
up the paper the next morning, however, he was surprised to find that only a few lines had
been given to the case, and that his interview had been replaced by one with an unnamed official
of the Fidelity, to the effect that the attack upon the company was obviously for black-mailing
purposes.

That was the only ripple which Montague's work produced upon the surface of the pool; but there
was a great commotion among the fish at the bottom, about which he was soon to learn.

That evening, while he was hard at work in his study, he received a telephone call from his
brother. "I'm coming round to see you," said Oliver. "Wait for me."

"All right," said the other, and added, "I thought you were dining at the Wallings'."

"I'm there now," was the answer. "I'm leaving."

"What is the matter?" Montague asked.

"There's hell to pay," was the reply--and then silence.

When Oliver appeared, a few minutes later, he did not even stop to set down his hat, but exclaimed,
"Allan, what in heaven's name have you been doing?"

"What do you mean?" asked the other.

"Why, that suit!"

"What about it?"

"Good God, man!" cried Oliver. "Do you mean that you really don't know what you've done?"

Montague was staring at him. "I'm afraid I don't," said he.

"Why, you're turning the world upside down!" exclaimed the other. "Everybody you know is crazy
about it."

"Everybody I know!" echoed Montague. "What have they to do with it?"

"Why, you've stabbed them in the back!" half shouted Oliver. "I could hardly believe my ears
when they told me. Robbie Walling is simply wild--I never had such a time in my life."

"I don't understand yet," said Montague, more and more amazed. "What has he to do with it?"

"Why, man," cried Oliver, "his brother's a director in the Fidelity! And his own interests--and
all the other companies! You've struck at the whole insurance business!"

Montague caught his breath. "Oh, I see!" he said.

"How could you think of such a thing?" cried the other, wildly. "You promised to consult me
about things--"

"I told you when I took this case," put in Montague, quickly.

"I know," said his brother. "But you didn't explain--and what did I know about it? I thought
I could leave it to your common sense not to mix up in a thing like this."

"I'm very sorry," said Montague, gravely. "I had no idea of any such result."

"That's what I told Robbie," said Oliver. "Good God, what a time I had!"

He took his hat and coat and laid them on the bed, and sat down and began to tell about it.
"I made him realize the disadvantage you were under," he said, "being a stranger and not knowing
the ground. I believe he had an idea that you tried to get his confidence on purpose to attack
him. It was Mrs. Robbie, I guess--you know her fortune is all in that quarter."

Oliver wiped the perspiration from his forehead. "My!" he said.--"And fancy what old Wyman
must be saying about this! And what a time poor Betty must be having! And then Freddie Vandam--the
air will be blue for half a mile round his place! I must send him a wire and explain that it
was a mistake, and that we're getting out of it."

And he got up, to suit the action to the word. But half-way to the desk he heard his brother
say, "Wait."

He turned, and saw Montague, quite pale. "I suppose by 'getting out of it,'" said the latter,
"you mean dropping the case."

"Of course," was the answer.

"Well, then," he continued, very gravely,--"I can see that it's going to be hard, and I'm sorry.
But you might as well understand me at the very beginning--I will never drop this case."

Oliver's jaw fell limp. "Allan!" he gasped.

There was a silence; and then the storm broke. Oliver knew his brother well enough to realize
just how thoroughly he meant what he said; and so he got the full force of the shock all at
once. He raved and swore and wrung his hands, and declaimed at his brother, saying that he
had betrayed him, that he was ruining him--dumping himself and the whole family into the ditch.
They would be jeered at and insulted--they would be blacklisted and thrown out of Society.
Alice's career would be cut short--every door would be closed to her. His own career would
die before it was born; he would never get into the clubs--he would be a pariah--he would be
bankrupted and penniless. Again and again Oliver went over the situation, naming person after
person who would be outraged, and describing what that person would do; there were the Wallings
and the Venables and the Havens, the Vandams and the Todds and the Wymans--they were all one
regiment, and Montague had flung a bomb into the centre of them!

It was very terrible to him to see his brother's rage and despair; but he had seen his way
clear through this matter, and he knew that there was no turning back for him. "It is painful
to learn that all one's acquaintances are thieves," he said. "But that does not change my opinion
of stealing."

"But my God!" cried Oliver; "did you come to New York to preach sermons?"

To which the other answered, "I came to practise law. And the lawyer who will not fight injustice
is a traitor to his profession."

Oliver threw up his hands in despair. What could one say to a sentiment such as that?

--But then again he came to the charge, pointing out to his brother the position in which he
had placed himself with the Wallings. He had accepted their hospitality; they had taken him
and Alice in, and done everything in the world for them--things for which no money could ever
repay them. And now he had struck them!

But the only effect of that was to make Montague regret that he had ever had anything to do
with the Wallings. If they expected to use their friendship to tie his hands in such a matter,
they were people he would have left alone.

"But do you realize that it's not merely yourself you're ruining?" cried Oliver. "Do you know
what you're doing to Alice?"

"That is harder yet for me," the other replied. "But I am sure that Alice would not ask me
to stop."

Montague was firmly set in his own mind; but it seemed to be quite impossible for his brother
to realize that this was the case. He would give up; but then, going back into his own mind,
and facing the thought of this person and that, and the impossibility of the situation which
would arise, he would return to the attack with new anguish in his voice. He implored and scolded,
and even wept; and then he would get himself together again, and come and sit in front of his
brother and try to reason with him.

And so it was that in the small hours of the morning, Montague, pale and nervous, but quite
unshaken, was sitting and listening while his brother unfolded before him a picture of the
Metropolis as he had come to see it. It was a city ruled by mighty forces--money-forces; great
families and fortunes, which had held their sway for generations, and regarded the place, with
all its swarming millions, as their birthright. They possessed it utterly--they held it in
the hollow of their hands. Railroads and telegraphs and telephones--banks and insurance and
trust companies--all these they owned; and the political machines and the legislatures, the
courts and the newspapers, the churches and the colleges. And their rule was for plunder; all
the streams of profit ran into their coffers. The stranger who came to their city succeeded
as he helped them in their purposes, and failed if they could not use him. A great editor or
bishop was a man who taught their doctrines; a great statesman was a man who made the laws
for them; a great lawyer was one who helped them to outwit the public. Any man who dared to
oppose them, they would cast out and trample on, they would slander and ridicule and ruin.

And Oliver came down to particulars--he named these powerful men, one after one, and showed
what they could do. If his brother would only be a man of the world, and see the thing! Look
at all the successful lawyers! Oliver named them, one after one--shrewd devisers of corporation
trickery, with incomes of hundreds of thousands a year. He could not name the men who had refused
to play the game--for no one had ever heard of them. But it was so evident what would happen
in this case! His friends would cast him off; his own client would get his price--whatever
it was--and then leave him in the lurch, and laugh at him! "If you can't make up your mind
to play the game," cried Oliver, frantically, "at least you can give it up! There are plenty
of other ways of getting a living--if you'll let me, I'll take care of you myself, rather than
have you disgrace me. Tell me--will you do that? Will you quit altogether?"

And Montague suddenly leaped to his feet, and brought his fist down upon the desk with a bang.
"No!" he cried; "by God, no!"

"Let me make you understand me once for all," he rushed on. "You've shown me New York as you
see it. I don't believe it's the truth--I don't believe it for one single moment! But let me
tell you this, I shall stay here and find out--and if it is true, it won't stop me! I shall
stay here and defy those people! I shall stay and fight them till the day I die! They may ruin
me,--I'll go and live in a garret if I have to,--but as sure as there's a God that made me,
I'll never stop till I've opened the eyes of the people to what they're doing!"

Montague towered over his brother, white-hot and terrible. Oliver shrank from him--he never
had seen such a burst of wrath from him before. "Do you understand me now?" Montague cried;
and he answered, in a despairing voice, "Yes, yes."

"I see it's all up," he added weakly. "You and I can't pull together."

"No," exclaimed the other, passionately, "we can't. And we might as well give up trying. You
have chosen to be a time-server and a lick-spittle, and I don't choose it! Do you think I've
learned nothing in the time I've been here? Why, man, you used to be daring and clever--and
now you never draw a breath without wondering if these rich snobs will like the way you do
it! And you want Alice to sell herself to them--you want me to sell my career to them!"

There was a long pause. Oliver had turned very pale. And then suddenly his brother caught himself
together, and said: "I'm sorry. I didn't mean to quarrel, but you've goaded me too much. I'm
grateful for what you have tried to do for me, and I'll pay you back as soon as I can. But
I can't go on with this game. I'll quit, and you can disown me to your friends--tell them that
I've run amuck, and to forget they ever knew me. They'll hardly blame you for it--they know
you too well for that. And as for Alice, I'll talk it out with her to-morrow, and let her decide
for herself--if she wants to be a Society queen, she can put herself in your hands, and I'll
get out of her way. On the other hand, if she approves of what I'm doing, why we'll both quit,
and you won't have to bother with either of us."

That was the basis upon which they parted for the night; but like most resolutions taken at
white heat, it was not followed literally. It was very hard for Montague to have to confront
Alice with such a choice; and as for Oliver, when he went home and thought it over, he began
to discover gleams of hope. He might make it clear to every one that he was not responsible
for his brother's business vagaries, and take his chances upon that basis. After all, there
were wheels within wheels in Society; and if the Robbie Wallings chose to break with him--why,
they had plenty of enemies. There might even be interests which would be benefited by Allan's
course, and would take him up.

Montague had resolved to write and break every engagement which he had made, and to sever his
connection with Society at one stroke. But the next day his brother came again, with compromises
and new protestations. There was no use going to the other extreme: he, Oliver, would have
it out with the Wallings, and they might all go on their way as if nothing had happened.

So Montague made his début in the rôle of knight-errant. He went with many qualms and misgivings,
uncertain how each new person would take it. The next evening he was promised for a theatre-party
with Siegfried Harvey; and they had supper in a private room at Delmonico's, and there came
Mrs. Winnie, resplendent as an apple tree in early April--and murmuring with bated breath,
"Oh, you dreadful man, what have you been doing?"

"Have I been poaching on YOUR preserves?" he asked promptly.

"No, not mine," she said, "but--" and then she hesitated.

"On Mr. Duval's?" he asked.

"No," she said, "not his--but everybody else's! He was telling me about it to-day--there's
a most dreadful uproar. He wanted me to try to find out what you were up to, and who was behind
it."

Montague listened, wonderingly. Did Mrs. Winnie mean to imply that her husband had asked her
to try to worm his business secrets out of him? That was what she seemed to imply. "I told
him I never talked business with my friends," she said. "He can ask you himself, if he chooses.
But what DOES it all mean, anyhow?"

Montague smiled at the naive inconsistency.

"It means nothing," said he, "except that I am trying to get justice for a client."

"But can you afford to make so many powerful enemies?" she asked.

"I've taken my chances on that," he replied.

Mrs. Winnie answered nothing, but looked at him with wondering admiration in her eyes. "You
arc different from the men about you," she remarked, after a while-and her tone gave Montague
to understand that there was one person who meant to stand by him.

But Mrs. Winnie Duval was not all Society. Montague was amused to notice with what suddenness
the stream of invitations slacked up; it was necessary for Alice to give her calling list many
revisions. Freddie Vandam had promised to invite them to his place on Long Island, and of course
that invitation would never come; likewise they would never again see the palace of the Lester
Todds, upon the Jersey mountain-top.

Oliver put in the next few days in calling upon people to explain his embarrassing situation.
He washed his hands of his brother's affairs, he said; and his friends might do the same, if
they saw fit. With the Robbie Wallings he had a stormy half hour, about which he thought it
best to say little to the rest of the family. Robbie did not break with him utterly, because
of their Wall Street Alliance; but Mrs. Robbie's feeling was so bitter, he said, that it would
be best if Alice saw nothing of her for a while. He had a long talk with Alice, and explained
the situation. The girl was utterly dumbfounded, for she was deeply grateful to Mrs. Robbie,
and fond of her as well; and she could not believe that a friend could be so cruelly unjust to her.

The upshot of the whole situation was a very painful episode. A few days later Alice met Mrs.
Robbie at a reception; and she took the lady aside, and tried to tell her how distressed and
helpless she was. And the result was that Mrs. Robbie flew into a passion and railed at her,
declaring in the presence of several people that she had sponged upon her and abused her hospitality!
And so poor Alice came home, weeping and half hysterical.

All of which, of course, was like oil upon a fire; the heavens were lighted up with the conflagration.
The next development was a paragraph in Society's scandal-sheet--telling with infinite gusto
how a certain ultra-fashionable matron had taken up a family of stranded waifs from a far State,
and introduced them into the best circles, and even gone so far as to give a magnificent dance
in their honour; and how the discovery had been made that the head of the family had been secretly
preparing an attack upon their business interests; and of the tearing of hair and gnashing
of teeth which had followed--and the violent quarrel in a public place. The paragraph concluded
with the prediction that the strangers would find themselves the centre of a merry social war.

Oliver was the first to show them this paper. But lest by any chance they should miss it, half
a dozen unknown friends were good enough to mail them copies, carefully marked.--And then came
Reggie Mann, who as free-lance and gossip-gatherer sat on the fence and watched the fun; Reggie
wore a thin veil of sympathy over his naked glee, and brought them the latest reports from
all portions of the battle-ground. Thus they were able to know exactly what everybody was saying
about them--who was amused and who was outraged, and who proposed to drop them and who to take
them up.

Montague listened for a while, but then he got tired of it, and went for a walk to escape it--but
only to run into another trap. It was dark, and he was strolling down the Avenue, when out
of a brilliantly lighted jewellery shop came Mrs. Billy Alden to her carriage. And she hailed
him with an exclamation.

"You man," she cried, "what have you been doing?"

He tried to laugh it off and escape, but she took him by the arm, commanding, "Get in here
and tell me about it."

So he found himself moving with the slow stream of vehicles on the Avenue, and with Mrs. Billy
gazing at him quizzically and asking him if he did not feel like a hippopotamus in a frog-pond.

He replied to her raillery by asking her under which flag she stood. But there was little need
to ask that, for anyone who was fighting a Walling became ipso facto a friend of Mrs. Billy's.
She told Montague that if he felt his social position was imperilled, all he had to do was
to come to her. She would gird on her armour and take the field.

"But tell me how you came to do it," she said.

He answered that there was very little to tell. He had taken up a case which was obviously
just, but having no idea what a storm it would raise.

Then he noticed that his companion was looking at him sharply. "Do you really mean that's all
there is to it?" she asked.

"Of course I do," said he, perplexed.

"Do you know," was her unexpected response, "I hardly know what to make of you. I'm afraid
to trust you, on account of your brother."

Montague was embarrassed. "I don't know what you mean," he said.

"Everybody thinks there's some trickery in that suit," she answered.

"Oh," said Montague, "I see. Well, they will find out. If it will help you any to know it,
I've been having no end of scenes with my brother."

"I'll believe you," said Mrs. Billy, genially. "But it seems strange that a man could have
been so blind to a situation! I feel quite ashamed because I didn't help you myself!"

The carriage had stopped at Mrs. Billy's home, and she asked him to dinner. "There'll be nobody
but my brother," she said,--"we're resting this evening. And I can make up to you for my negligence!"

Montague had no engagement, and so he went in, and saw Mrs. Billy's mansion, which was decorated
in imitation of a Doge's palace, and met Mr. "Davy" Alden, a mild-mannered little gentleman
who obeyed orders promptly. They had a comfortable dinner of half-a-dozen courses, and then
retired to the drawing-room, where Mrs. Billy sank into a huge easy chair, with a decanter
of whisky and some cracked ice in readiness beside it. Then from a tray she selected a thick
black cigar, and placidly bit off the end and lighted it, and then settled back at her ease,
and proceeded to tell Montague about New York, and about the great families who ruled it, and
where and how they had got their money, and who were their allies and who their enemies, and
what particular skeletons were hidden in each of their closets.

It was worth coming a long way to listen to Mrs. Billy tete-a-tete; her thoughts were vigorous,
and her imagery was picturesque. She spoke of old Dan Waterman, and described him as a wild
boar rooting chestnuts. He was all right, she said, if you didn't come under his tree. And
Montague asked, "Which is his tree?" and she answered, "Any one he happens to be under at the
time."

And then she came to the Wallings. Mrs. Billy had been in on the inside of that family, and
there was nothing she didn't know about it; and she brought the members up, one by one, and
dissected them, and exhibited them for Montague's benefit. They were typical bourgeois people,
she said. They were burghers. They had never shown the least capacity for refinement--they
ate and drank, and jostled other people out of the way. The old ones had been boors, and the
new ones were cads.

And Mrs. Billy sat and puffed at her cigar. "Do you know the history of the family?" she asked.
"The founder was a rough old ferryman. He fought his rivals so well that in the end he owned
all the boats; and then some one discovered the idea of buying legislatures and building railroads,
and he went into that. It was a time when they simply grabbed things--if you ever look into
it, you'll find they're making fortunes to-day out of privileges that the old man simply sat
down on and held. There's a bridge at Albany, for instance, to which they haven't the slightest
right; my brother knows about it--they've given themselves a contract with their railroad by
which they're paid for every passenger, and their profit every year is greater than the cost
of the bridge. The son was the head of the family when I came in; and I found that he had it
all arranged to leave thirty million dollars to one of his sons, and only ten million to my
husband. I set to work to change that, I can tell you. I used to go around to see him, and
scratch his back and tickle him and make him feel good. Of course the family went wild--my,
how they hated me! They set old Ellis to work to keep me off--have you met Judge Ellis?"

"I have," said Montague.

"Well, there's a pussy-footed old hypocrite for you," said Mrs. Billy. "In those days he was
Walling's business lackey--used to pass the money to the legislators and keep the wheels of
the machine greased. One of the first things I said to the old man was that I didn't ask him
to entertain my butler, and he mustn't ask me to entertain his valet--and so I forbid Ellis
to enter my house. And when I found that he was trying to get between the old man and me, I
flew into a rage and boxed his ears and chased him out of the room!"

Mrs. Billy paused, and laughed heartily over the recollection. "Of course that tickled the
old man to death," she continued. "The Wallings never could make out how I managed to get round
him as I did; but it was simply because I was honest with him. They'd come snivelling round,
pretending they were anxious about his health; while I wanted his money, and I told him so."

The valiant lady turned to the decanter. "Have some Scotch?" she asked, and poured some for
herself, and then went on with her story. "When I first came to New York," she said, "the rich
people's houses were all alike--all dreary brownstone fronts, sandwiched in on one or two city
lots. I vowed that I would have a house with some room all around it--and that was the beginning
of those palaces that all New York walks by and stares at. You can hardly believe it now--those
houses were a scandal! But the sensation tickled the old man. I remember one day we walked
up the Avenue to see how they were coming on; and he pointed with his big stick to the second
floor, and asked, 'What's that?' I answered, 'It's a safe I'm building into the house.' (That
was a new thing, too, in those days.)--'I'm going to keep my money in that,' I said. 'Bah!'
he growled, 'when you're done with this house, you won't have any money left.'--'I'm planning
to make you fill it for me,' I answered; and do you know, he chuckled all the way home over it!"

Mrs. Billy sat laughing softly to herself. "We had great old battles in those days," she said.
"Among other things, I had to put the Wallings into Society. They were sneaking round on the
outside when I came--licking people's boots and expecting to be kicked. I said to myself, I'll
put an end to that--we'll have a show-down! So I gave a ball that made the whole country sit
up and gasp--it wouldn't be noticed particularly nowadays, but then people had never dreamed
of anything so gorgeous. And I made out a list of all the people I wanted to know in New York,
and I said to myself: 'If you come, you're a friend, and if you don't come, you're an enemy.'
And they all came, let me tell you! And there was never any question about the Wallings being
in Society after that."

Mrs. Billy halted; and Montague remarked, with a smile, that doubtless she was sorry now that
she had done it.

"Oh, no," she answered, with a shrug of her shoulders. "I find that all I have to do is to
be patient--I hate people, and think I'd like to poison them, but if I only wait long enough,
something happens to them much worse than I ever dreamed of. You'll be revenged on the Robbies
some day."

"I don't want any revenge," Montague answered. "I've no quarrel with them--I simply wish I
hadn't accepted their hospitality. I didn't know they were such little people. It seems hard
to believe it."

Mrs. Billy laughed cynically. "What could you expect?" she said. "They know there's nothing
to them but their money. When that's gone, they're gone--they could never make any more."

The lady gave a chuckle, and added: "Those words make me think of Davy's experience when he
wanted to go to Congress! Tell him about it, Davy."

But Mr. Alden did not warm to the subject; he left the tale to his sister.

"He was a Democrat, you know," said she, "and he went to the boss and told him he'd like to
go to Congress. The answer was that it would cost him forty thousand dollars, and he kicked
at the price. Others didn't have to put up such sums, he said--why should he? And the old man
growled at him, 'The rest have other things to give. One can deliver the letter-carriers, another
is paid for by a corporation. But what can you do? What is there to you but your money?'--So
Davy paid the money--didn't you, Davy?" And Davy grinned sheepishly.

"Even so," she went on, "he came off better than poor Devon. They got fifty thousand out of
him, and sold him out, and he never got to Congress after all! That was just before he concluded
that America wasn't a fit place for a gentleman to live in."

And so Mrs. Billy got started on the Devons! And after that came the Havens and the Wymans
and the Todds--it was midnight before she got through with them all.

CHAPTER XVIII

The newspapers said nothing more about the Hasbrook suit; but in financial circles Montague
had attained considerable notoriety because of it. And this was the means of bringing him a
number of new cases.

But alas, there were no more fifty-thousand-dollar clients! The first caller was a destitute
widow with a deed which would have entitled her to the greater part of a large city in Pennsylvania--only
unfortunately the deed was about eighty years old. And then there was a poor old man who had
been hurt in a street-car accident and had been tricked into signing away his rights; and an
indignant citizen who proposed to bring a hundred suits against the traction trust for transfers
refused. All were contingency cases, with the chances of success exceedingly remote. And Montague
noticed that the people had come to him as a last resort, having apparently heard of him as
a man of altruistic temper.

There was one case which interested him particularly, because it seemed to fit in so ominously
with the grim prognosis of his brother. He received a call from an elderly gentleman, of very
evident refinement and dignity of manner, who proceeded to unfold to him a most amazing story.
Five or six years ago he had invented a storage-battery, which was the most efficient known.
He had organised a company with three million dollars' capital to manufacture it, himself taking
a third interest for his patents, and becoming president of the company. Not long afterward
had come a proposal from a group of men who wished to organize a company to manufacture automobiles;
they proposed to form an alliance which would give them the exclusive use of the battery. But
these men were not people with whom the inventor cared to deal--they were traction and gas
magnates widely known for their unscrupulous methods. And so he had declined their offer, and
set to work instead to organize an automobile company himself. He had just got under way when
he discovered that his rivals had set to work to take his invention away from him. A friend
who owned another third share in his company had hypothecated his stock to help form the new
company; and now came a call from the bank for more collateral, and he was obliged to sell
out. And at the next stockholders' meeting it developed that their rivals had bought it, and
likewise more stock in the open market; and they proceeded to take possession of the company,
ousting the former president--and then making a contract with their automobile company to furnish
the storage-battery at a price which left no profit for the manufacturers! And so for two years
the inventor had not received a dollar of dividends upon his million dollars' worth of paper;
and to cap the climax, the company had refused to sell the battery to his automobile company,
and so that had gone into bankruptcy, and his friend was ruined also!

Montague went into the case very carefully, and found that the story was true. What interested
him particularly in it was the fact that he had met a couple of these financial highwaymen
in social life; he had come to know the son and heir of one of them quite well, at Siegfried
Harvey's. This gilded youth was engaged to be married in a very few days, and the papers had
it that the father-in-law had presented the bride with a cheque for a million dollars. Montague
could not but wonder if it was the million that had been taken from his client!

There was to be a "bachelor dinner" at the Millionaires' on the night before the wedding, to
which he and Oliver had been invited. As he was thinking of taking up his case, he went to
his brother, saying that he wished to decline; but Oliver had been getting back his courage
day by day, and declared that it was more important than ever now that he should hold his ground,
and face his enemies--for Alice's sake, if not for his own. And so Montague went to the dinner,
and saw deeper yet into the history of the stolen millions.

It was a very beautiful affair, in the beginning. There was a large private dining-room, elaborately
decorated, with a string orchestra concealed in a bower of plants. But there were cocktails
even on the side-board at the doorway; and by the time the guests had got to the coffee, every
one was hilariously drunk. After each toast they would hurl their glasses over their shoulders.
The purpose of a "bachelor dinner," it appeared, was a farewell to the old days and the boon
companions; so there were sentimental and comic songs which had been composed for the occasion,
and were received with whirlwinds of laughter.

By listening closely and reading between the lines, one might get quite a history of the young
host's adventurous career. There was a house up on the West Side; and there was a yacht, with,
orgies in every part of the world. There was the summer night in Newport harbour, when some
one had hit upon the dazzling scheme of freezing twenty-dollar gold pieces in tiny blocks of
ice, to be dropped down the girls' backs! And there was a banquet in a studio in New York,
when a huge pie had been brought on, from which a half-nude girl had emerged, with a flock
of canary birds about her! Then there was a damsel who had been wont to dance upon the tops
of supper tables, clad in diaphanous costume; and who had got drunk after a theatre-party,
and set out to smash up a Broadway restaurant. There was a cousin from Chicago, a wild lad,
who made a speciality of this diversion, and whose mistresses were bathed in champagne.--Apparently
there were numberless places in the city where such orgies were carried on continually; there
were private clubs, and artists' "studios"--there were several allusions to a high tower, which
Montague did not comprehend. Many such matters, however, were explained to him by an elderly
gentleman who sat on his right, and who seemed to stay sober, no matter how much he drank.
Incidentally he gravely advised Montague to meet one of the young host's mistresses, who was
a "stunning" girl, and was in the market.

Toward morning the festivities changed to a series of wrestling-bouts; the young men stripped
off their clothing and tore the table to pieces, and piled it out of the way in a corner, smashing
most of the crockery in the process. Between the matches, champagne would be opened by knocking
off the heads of the bottles; and this went on until four o'clock in the morning, when many
of the guests were lying in heaps upon the floor.

Montague rode home in a cab with the elderly gentleman who had sat next to him; and on the
way he asked if such affairs as this were common. And his companion, who was a "steel man"
from the West, replied by telling him of some which he had witnessed at home. At Siegfried
Harvey's theatre-party Montague had seen a popular actress in a musical comedy, which was then
the most successful play running in New York. The house was sold out weeks ahead, and after
the matinee you might observe the street in front of the stage-entrance blocked by people waiting
to see the woman come out. She was lithe and supple, like a panther, and wore close-fitting
gowns to reveal her form. It seemed that her play must have been built with one purpose in
mind, to see how much lewdness could be put upon a stage without interference by the police.--And
now his companion told him how this woman had been invited to sing at a banquet given by the
magnates of a mighty Trust, and had gone after midnight to the most exclusive club in the town,
and sung her popular ditty, "Won't you come and play with me?" The merry magnates had taken
the invitation literally--with the result that the actress had escaped from the room with half
her clothing torn off her. And a little while later an official of this trust had wished to
get rid of his wife and marry a chorus-girl; and when public clamour had forced the directors
to ask him to resign, he had replied by threatening to tell about this banquet!

The next day--or rather, to be precise, that same morning--Montague and Alice attended the
gorgeous wedding. It was declared by the newspapers to be the most "important" social event
of the week; and it took half a dozen policemen to hold back the crowds which filled the street.
The ceremony took place at St. Cecilia's, with the stately bishop officiating, in his purple
and scarlet robes. Inside the doors were all the elect, exquisitely groomed and gowned, and
such a medley of delicious perfumes as not all the vales in Arcady could equal. The groom had
been polished and scrubbed, and looked very handsome, though somewhat pale; and Montague could
not but smile as he observed the best man, looking so very solemn, and recollected the drunken
wrestler of a few hours before, staggering about in a pale blue undershirt ripped up the back.

The Montagues knew by this time whom they were to avoid. They were graciously taken under the
wing of Mrs. Eldridge Devon--whose real estate was not affected by insurance suits; and the
next morning they had the satisfaction of seeing their names in the list of those present--and
even a couple of lines about Alice's costume. (Alice was always referred to as "Miss Montague";
it was very pleasant to be the "Miss Montague," and to think of all the other would-be Miss
Montagues in the city, who were thereby haughtily rebuked!) In the "yellow" papers there were
also accounts of the trousseau of the bride, and of the wonderful gifts which she had received,
and of the long honeymoon which she was to spend in the Mediterranean upon her husband's yacht.
Montague found himself wondering if the ghosts of its former occupants would not haunt her,
and whether she would have been as happy, had she known as much as he knew.

He found food for a good deal of thought in the memory of this banquet. Among the things which
he had gathered from the songs was a hint that Oliver, also, had some secrets, which he had
not seen fit to tell his brother. The keeping of young girls was apparently one of the established
customs of the "little brothers of the rich"--and, for that matter, of many of the big brothers,
also. A little later Montague had a curious glimpse into the life of this "half-world." He
had occasion one evening to call up a certain financier whom he had come to know quite well-a
man of family and a member of the church. There were some important papers to be signed and
sent off by a steamer; and the great man's secretary said that he would try to find him. A
minute or two later he called up Montague and asked him if he would be good enough to go to
an address uptown. It was a house not far from Riverside Drive; and Montague went there and
found his acquaintance, with several other prominent men of affairs whom he knew, conversing
in a drawing-room with one of the most charming ladies he had ever met. She was exquisite to
look at, and one of the few people in New York whom he had found worth listening to. He spent
such an enjoyable evening, that when he was leaving, he remarked to the lady that he would
like his cousin Alice to meet her; and then he noticed that she flushed slightly, and was embarrassed.
Later on he learned to his dismay that the charming and beautiful lady did not go into Society.

Nor was this at all rare; on the contrary, if one took the trouble to make inquiries, he would
find that such establishments were everywhere taken for granted. Montague talked about it with
Major Venable; and out of his gossip storehouse the old gentleman drew forth a string of anecdotes
that made one's hair stand on end. There was one all-powerful magnate, who had a passion for
the wife of a great physician; and he had given a million dollars or so to build a hospital,
and had provided that it should be the finest in the world, and that this physician should
go abroad for three years to study the institutions of Europe! No conventions counted with
this old man--if he saw a woman whom he wanted, he would ask for her; and women in Society
felt that it was an honour to be his mistress. Not long after this a man who voiced the anguish
of a mighty nation was turned out of several hotels in New York because he was not married
according to the laws of South Dakota; but this other man would take a woman to any hotel in
the city, and no one would dare oppose him!

And there was another, a great traction king, who kept mistresses in Chicago and Paris and
London, as well as in New York; he had one just around the corner from his palatial home, and
had an underground passage leading to it. And the Major told with glee how he had shown this
to a friend, and the latter had remarked, "I'm too stout to get through there."--"I know it,"
replied the other, "else I shouldn't have told you!"

And so it went. One of the richest men in New York was a sexual degenerate, with half a dozen
women on his hands all the time; he would send them cheques, and they would use these to blackmail
him. This man's young wife had been shut up in a closet for twenty-four hours by her mother
to compel her to marry him.--And then there was the charming tale of how he had gone away upon
a mission of state, and had written long messages full of tender protestations, and given them
to a newspaper correspondent to cable home "to his wife." The correspondent had thought it
such a touching example of conjugal devotion that he told about it at a dinner-party when he
came back; and he was struck by the sudden silence that fell. "The messages had been sent to
a code address!" chuckled the Major. "And every one at the table knew who had got them!"

A few days after this, Montague received a telephone message from Siegfried Harvey, who said
that he wanted to see him about a matter of business. He asked him to lunch at the Noonday
Club; and Montague went--though not without a qualm. For it was in the Fidelity Building, the
enemy's bailiwick: a magnificent structure with halls of white marble, and a lavish display
of bronze. It occurred to Montague that somewhere in this structure people were at work preparing
an answer to his charges; he wondered what they were saying.

The two had lunch, talking meanwhile about the coming events in Society, and about politics
and wars; and when the coffee was served and they were alone in the room, Harvey settled his
big frame back in his chair, and began:--

"In the first place," he said, "I must explain that I've something to say that is devilish
hard to get into. I'm so much afraid of your jumping to a wrong conclusion in the middle of
it--I'd like you to agree to listen for a minute or two before you think at all."

"All right," said Montague, with a smile. "Fire away."

And at once the other became grave. "You've taken a case against this company," he said. "And
Ollie has talked enough to me to make me understand that you've done a plucky thing, and that
you must be everlastingly sick of hearing from cowardly people who want you to drop it. I'd
be very sorry to be classed with them, for even a moment; and you must understand at the outset
that I haven't a particle of interest in the company, and that it wouldn't matter to me if
I had. I don't try to use my friends in business, and I don't let money count with me in my
social life. I made up my mind to take the risk of speaking to you about this case, simply
because I happen to know one or two things about it that I thought you didn't know. And if
that's so, you are at a great disadvantage; but in any case, please understand that I have
no motive but friendship, and so if I am butting in, excuse me."

When Siegfried Harvey talked, he looked straight at one with his clear blue eyes, and there
was no doubting his honesty. "I am very much obliged to you," said Montague. "Pray tell me
what you have to say."

"All right," said the other. "It can be done very quickly. You have taken a case which involves
a great many sacrifices upon your part. And I wondered if it had ever occurred to you to ask
whether you might not be taken advantage of?"

"How do you mean?" asked Montague.

"Do you know the people who are behind you?" inquired the other. "Do you know them well enough
to be sure what are their motives in the case?"

Montague hesitated, and thought. "No," he said, "I couldn't say that I do."

"Then it's just as I thought," replied Harvey. "I've been watching you--you are an honest man,
and you're putting yourself to no end of trouble from the best of motives. And unless I'm mistaken,
you're being used by men who are not honest, and whom you wouldn't work with if you knew their
purposes."

"What purposes could they have?"

"There are several possibilities. In the first place, it might be a 'strike' suit--somebody
who is hoping to be bought off for a big price. That is what nearly every one thinks is the
case. But I don't; I think it's more likely some one within the company who is trying to put
the administration in a hole."

"Who could that be?" exclaimed Montague, amazed.

"I don't know that. I'm not familiar enough with the situation in the Fidelity--it's changing
all the time. I simply know that there are factions struggling for the control of it, and hating
each other furiously, and ready to do anything in the world to cripple each other. You know
that their forty millions of surplus gives an enormous power; I'd rather be able to swing forty
millions in the Street than to have ten millions in my own right. And so the giants are fighting
for the control of those companies; and you can't tell who's in and who's out--you can never
know the real meaning of anything that happens in the struggle. All that you can be sure of
is that the game is crooked from end to end, and that nothing that happens in it is what it
pretends to be."

Montague listened, half dazed, and feeling as if the ground he stood on were caving beneath
his feet.

"What do you know about those who brought you this case?" asked his companion, suddenly.

"Not much," he said weakly.

Harvey hesitated a moment. "Understand me, please," he said. "I've no wish to pry into your
affairs, and if you don't care to say any more, I'll understand it perfectly. But I've heard
it said that the man who started the thing was Ellis."

Montague, in his turn, hesitated; then he said, "That is correct--between you and me."

"Very good," said Harvey, "and that is what made me suspicious. Do you know anything about Ellis?"

"I didn't," said the other. "I've heard a little since."

"I can fancy so," said Harvey. "And I can tell you that Ellis is mixed up in life-insurance
matters in all sorts of dubious ways. It seems to me that you have reason to be most careful
where you follow him."

Montague sat with his hands clenched and his brows knitted. His friend's talk had been like
a flash of lightning; it revealed huge menacing forms in the darkness about him. All the structure
of his hopes seemed to be tottering; his case, that he had worked so hard over--his fifty thousand
dollars that he had been so proud of! Could it be that he had been tricked, and had made a
fool of himself?

"How in the world am I to know?" he cried.

"That is more than I can tell," said his friend. "And for that matter, I'm not sure that you
could do anything now. All that I could do was to warn you what sort of ground you were treading
on, so that you could watch out for yourself in future."

Montague thanked him heartily for that service; and then he went back to his office, and spent
the rest of the day pondering the matter.

What he had heard had made a vast change in things. Before it everything had seemed simple;
and now nothing was clear. He was overwhelmed with a sense of the utter futility of his efforts;
he was trying to build a house upon quicksands. There was nowhere a solid spot upon which he
could set his foot. There was nowhere any truth--there were only contending powers who used
the phrases of truth for their own purposes! And now he saw himself as the world saw him,--a
party to a piece of trickery,--a knave like all the rest. He felt that he had been tripped
up at the first step in his career.

The conclusion of the whole matter was that he took an afternoon train for Albany; and the
next morning he talked the matter out with the Judge. Montague had realized the need of going
slowly, for, after all, he had no definite ground for suspicion; and so, very tactfully and
cautiously he explained, that it had come to his ears that many people believed there were
interested parties behind the suit of Mr. Hasbrook; and that this had made him uncomfortable,
as he knew nothing whatever about his client. He had come to ask the Judge's advice in the matter.

No one could have taken the thing more graciously than did the great man; he was all kindness
and tact. In the first place, he said, he had warned him in advance that enemies would attack
him and slander him, and that all kinds of subtle means would be used to influence him. And
he must understand that these rumours were part of such a campaign; it made no difference how
good a friend had brought them to him--how could he know who had brought them to that friend?

The Judge ventured to hope that nothing that anyone might say could influence him to believe
that he, the Judge, would have advised him to do anything improper.

"No," said Montague, "but can you assure me that there are no interested parties behind Mr.
Hasbrook?"

"Interested parties?" asked the other.

"I mean people connected with the Fidelity or other insurance companies."

"Why, no," said the Judge; "I certainly couldn't assure you of that."

Montague looked surprised. "You mean you don't know?"

"I mean," was the answer, "that I wouldn't feel at liberty to tell, even if I did know."

And Montague stared at him; he had not been prepared for this frankness.

"It never occurred to me," the other continued, "that that was a matter which could make any
difference to you."

"Why--" began Montague.

"Pray understand me, Mr. Montague," said the Judge. "It seemed to me that this was obviously
a just case, and it seemed so to you. And the only other matter that I thought you had a right
to be assured of was that it was seriously meant. Of that I felt assured. It did not seem to
me of any importance that there might be interested individuals behind Mr. Hasbrook. Let us
suppose, for instance, that there were some parties who had been offended by the administration
of the Fidelity, and were anxious to punish it. Could a lawyer be justified in refusing to
take a just case, simply because he knew of such private motives? Or, let us assume an extreme
case--a factional fight within the company, as you say has been suggested to you. Well, that
would be a case of thieves falling out; and is there any reason why the public should not reap
the advantage of such a situation? The men inside the company are the ones who would know first
what is going on; and if you saw a chance to use such an advantage in a just fight--would you
not do it?"

So the Judge went on, gracious and plausible--and so subtly and exquisitely corrupting! Underneath
his smoothly flowing sentences Montague could feel the presence of one fundamental thought;
it was unuttered and even unhinted, but it pervaded the Judge's discourse as a mood pervades
a melody. The young lawyer had got a big fee, and he had a nice easy case; and as a man of
the world, he could not really wish to pry into it too closely. He had heard gossip, and felt
that his reputation required him to be disturbed; but he had come, simply to be smoothed down
the back and made at ease, and enabled to keep his fee without losing his good opinion of himself.

Montague quit, because he concluded that it was not worth while to try to make himself understood.
After all, he was in the case now, and there was nothing to be gained by a breach. Two things
he felt that he had made certain by the interview--first, that his client was a "dummy," and
that it was really a case of thieves falling out; and second, that he had no guarantee that
he might not be left in the lurch at any moment--except the touching confidence of the Judge
in some parties unknown.

CHAPTER XIX

Montague came home with his mind made up that there was nothing he could do except to be more
careful next time. For this mistake he would have to pay the price.

He had still to learn what the full price was. The day after his return there came a caller--Mr.
John C. Burton, read his card. He proved to be a canvassing agent for the company which published
the scandal-sheet of Society. They were preparing a de luxe account of the prominent families
of New York; a very sumptuous affair, with a highly exclusive set of subscribers, at the rate
of fifteen hundred dollars per set. Would Mr. Montague by any chance care to have his family
included?

And Mr. Montague explained politely that he was a comparative stranger in New York, and would
not belong properly in such a volume. But the agent was not satisfied with this. There might
be reasons for his subscribing, even so; there might be special cases; Mr. Montague, as a stranger,
might not realize the important nature of the offer; after he had consulted his friends, he
might change his mind--and so on. As Montague listened to this series of broad hints, and took
in the meaning of them, the colour mounted, to his cheeks--until at last he rose abruptly and
bid the man good afternoon.

But then as he sat alone, his anger died away, and there was left only discomfort and uneasiness.
And three or four days later he bought another issue of the paper, and sure enough, there was
a new paragraph!

He stood on the street-corner reading it. The social war was raging hotly, it said; and added
that Mrs. de Graffenried was threatening to take up the cause of the strangers. Then it went
on to picture a certain exquisite young man of fashion who was rushing about among his friends
to apologize for his brother's indiscretions. Also, it said, there was a brilliant social queen,
wife of a great banker, who had taken up the cudgels.--And then came three sentences more,
which made the blood leap like flame into Montague's cheeks:

"There have not been lacking comments upon her suspicious ardour. It has been noticed that
since the advent of the romantic-looking Southerner, this restless lady's interest in the Babists
and the trance mediums has waned; and now Society is watching for the denouement of a most
interesting situation."

To Montague these words came like a blow in the face. He went on down the street, half dazed.
It seemed to him the blackest shame that New York had yet shown him. He clenched his fists
as he walked, whispering to himself, "The scoundrels!"

He realized instantly that he was helpless. Down home one would have thrashed the editor of
such a paper; but here he was in the wolves' own country, and he could do nothing. He went
back to his office, and sat down at the desk.

"My dear Mrs. Winnie," he wrote. "I have just read the enclosed paragraph, and I cannot tell
you how profoundly pained I am that your kindness to us should have made you the victim of
such an outrage. I am quite helpless in the matter, except to enable you to avoid any further
annoyance. Please believe me when I say that we shall all of us understand perfectly if you
think that we had best not meet again at present; and that this will make no difference whatever
in our feelings."

This letter Montague sent by a messenger; and then he went home. Perhaps ten minutes after
he arrived, the telephone bell rang--and there was Mrs. Winnie.

"Your note has come," she said. "Have you an engagement this evening?"

"No," he answered.

"Well," she said, "will you come to dinner?"

"Mrs. Winnie--" he protested.

"Please come," she said. "Please!"

"I hate to have you--" he began.

"I wish you to come!" she said, a third time.

So he answered, "Very well."

He went; and when he entered the house, the butler led him to the elevator, saying, "Mrs. Duval
says will you please come upstairs, sir." And there Mrs. Winnie met him, with flushed cheeks
and eager countenance.

She was even lovelier than usual, in a soft cream-coloured gown, and a crimson rose in her
bosom. "I'm all alone to-night," she said, "so we'll dine in my apartments. We'd be lost in
that big room downstairs."

She led him into her drawing-room, where great armfuls of new roses scattered their perfume.
There was a table set for two, and two big chairs before the fire which blazed in the hearth.
Montague noticed that her hand trembled a little, as she motioned him to one of them; he could
read her excitement in her whole aspect. She was flinging down the gauntlet to her enemies!

"Let us eat first and talk afterward," she said, hurriedly. "We'll be happy for a while, anyway."

And she went on to be happy, in her nervous and eager way. She talked about the new opera which
was to be given, and about Mrs. de Graffenried's new entertainment, and about Mrs. Ridgley-Clieveden's
ball; also about the hospital for crippled children which she wanted to build, and about Mrs.
Vivie Patton's rumoured divorce. And, meantime, the sphinx-like attendants moved here and there,
and the dinner came and went. They took their coffee in the big chairs by the fire; and the
table was swept clear, and the servants vanished, closing the doors behind them.

Then Montague set his cup aside, and sat gazing sombrely into the fire. And Mrs. Winnie watched
him. There was a long silence.

Suddenly he heard her voice. "Do you find it so easy to give up our friendship?" she asked.

"I didn't think about it's being easy or hard," he answered. "I simply thought of protecting you."

"And do you think that my friends are nothing to me?" she demanded. "Have I so very many as
that?" And she clenched her hands with a sudden passionate gesture. "Do you think that I will
let those wretches frighten me into doing what they want? I'll not give in to them--not for
anything that Lelia can do!"

A look of perplexity crossed Montague's face. "Lelia?" he asked.

"Mrs. Robbie Walling!" she cried. "Don't you suppose that she is responsible for that paragraph?"

Montague started.

"That's the way they fight their battles!" cried Mrs. Winnie. "They pay money to those scoundrels
to be protected. And then they send nasty gossip about people they wish to injure."

"You don't mean that!" exclaimed the man.

"Of course I do," cried she. "I know that it's true! I know that Robbie Walling paid fifteen
thousand dollars for some trumpery volumes that they got out! And how do you suppose the paper
gets its gossip?"

"I didn't know," said Montague. "But I never dreamed--"

"Why," exclaimed Mrs. Winnie, "their mail is full of blue and gold monogram stationery! I've
known guests to sit down and write gossip about their hostesses in their own homes. Oh, you've
no idea of people's vileness!"

"I had some idea," said Montague, after a pause.--"That was why I wished to protect you."

"I don't wish to be protected!" she cried, vehemently. "I'll not give them the satisfaction.
They wish to make me give you up, and I'll not do it, for anything they can say!"

Montague sat with knitted brows, gazing into the fire. "When I read that paragraph," he said
slowly. "I could not bear to think of the unhappiness it might cause you. I thought of how
much it might disturb your husband--"

"My husband!" echoed Mrs. Winnie.

There was a hard tone in her voice, as she went on. "He will fix it up with them," she said,--"that's
his way. There will be nothing more published, you can feel sure of that."

Montague sat in silence. That was not the reply he had expected, and it rather disconcerted him.

"If that were all--" he said, with hesitation. "But I could not know. I thought that the paragraph
might disturb him for another reason--that it might be a cause of unhappiness between you and
him--"

There was a pause. "You don't understand," said Mrs. Winnie, at last.

Without turning his head he could see her hands, as they lay upon her knees. She was moving
them nervously. "You don't understand," she repeated.

When she began to' speak again, it was in a low, trembling voice. "I must tell you," she said;
"I have felt sure that you did not know."

There was another pause. She hesitated, and her hands trembled; then suddenly she hurried on.--"I
wanted you to know. I do not love my husband. I am not bound to him. He has nothing to say
in my affairs."

Montague sat rigid, turned to stone. He was half dazed by the words. He could feel Mrs. Winnie's
gaze fixed upon him; and he could feel the hot flush that spread over her throat and cheeks.

"It--it was not fair for you not to know," she whispered. And her voice died away, and there
was again a silence. Montague was dumb.

"Why don't you say something?" she panted, at last; and he caught the note of anguish in her
voice. Then he turned and stared at her, and saw her tightly clenched hands, and the quivering
of her lips.

He was shocked quite beyond speech. And he saw her bosom heaving quickly, and saw the tears
start into her eyes. Suddenly she sank down, and covered her face with her hands and broke
into frantic sobbing.

"Mrs. Winnie!" he cried; and started to his feet.

Her outburst continued. He saw that she was shuddering violently. "Then you don't love me!"
she wailed.

He stood trembling and utterly bewildered. "I'm so sorry!" he whispered. "Oh, Mrs. Winnie--I
had no idea--"

"I know it! I know it!" she cried. "It's my fault! I was a fool! I knew it all the time. But
I hoped--I thought you might, if you knew--"

And then again her tears choked her; she was convulsed with pain and grief.

Montague stood watching her, helpless with distress. She caught hold of the arm of the chair,
convulsively, and he put his hand upon hers.

"Mrs. Winnie--" he began.

But she jerked her hand away and hid it. "No, no!" she cried, in terror. "Don't touch me!"

And suddenly she looked up at him, stretching out her arms. "Don't you understand that I love
you?" she exclaimed. "You despise me for it, I know--but I can't help it. I will tell you,
even so! It's the only satisfaction I can have. I have always loved you! And I thought--I thought
it was only that you didn't understand. I was ready to brave all the world--I didn't care who
knew it, or what anybody said. I thought we could be happy--I thought I could be free at last.
Oh, you've no idea how unhappy I am--and how lonely--and how I longed to escape! And I believed
that you--that you might--"

And then the tears gushed into Mrs. Winnie's eyes again, and her voice became the voice of
a little child.

"Don't you think that you might come to love me?" she wailed.

Her voice shook Montague, so that he trembled to the depths of him. But his face only became
the more grave.

"You despise me because I told you!" she exclaimed.

"No, no, Mrs. Winnie," he said. "I could not possibly do that--"

"Then--then why--" she whispered.--"Would it be so hard to love me?"

"It would be very easy," he said, "but I dare not let myself."

She looked at him piteously. "You are so cold--so merciless!" she cried.

He answered nothing, and she sat trembling. "Have you ever loved a woman?" she asked.

There was a long pause. He sat in the chair again. "Listen, Mrs. Winnie"--he began at last.

"Don't call me that!" she exclaimed. "Call me Evelyn--please."

"Very well," he said--"Evelyn. I did not intend to make you unhappy--if I had had any idea,
I should never have seen you again. I will tell you--what I have never told anybody before.
Then you will understand."

He sat for a few moments, in a sombre reverie.

"Once," he said, "when I was young, I loved a woman--a quadroon girl. That was in New Orleans;
it is a custom we have there. They have a world of their own, and we take care of them, and
of the children; and every one knows about it. I was very young, only about eighteen; and she
was even younger. But I found out then what women are, and what love means to them. I saw how
they could suffer. And then she died in childbirth--the child died, too."

Montague's voice was very low; and Mrs. Winnie sat with her hands clasped, and her eyes riveted
upon his face. "I saw her die," he said. "And that was all. I have never forgotten it. I made
up my mind then that I had done wrong; and that never again while I lived would I offer my
love to a woman, unless I could devote all my life to her. So you see, I am afraid of love.
I do not wish to suffer so much, or to make others suffer. And when anyone speaks to me as
you did, it brings it all back to me--it makes me shrink up and wither."

He paused, and the other caught her breath.

"Understand me," she said, her voice trembling. "I would not ask any pledges of you. I would
pay whatever price there was to pay--I am not afraid to suffer."

"I do not wish you to suffer," he said. "I do not wish to take advantage of any woman."

"But I have nothing in the world that I value!" she cried. "I would go away--I would give up
everything, to be with a man like you. I have no ties--no duties--"

He interrupted her. "You have your husband--" he said.

And she cried out in sudden fury--"My husband!"

"Has no one ever told you about my husband?" she asked, after a pause.

"No one," he said.

"Well, ask them!" she exclaimed. "Meantime, take my word for it--I owe nothing to my husband."

Montague sat staring into the fire. "But consider my own case," he said. "I have duties--my
mother and my cousin--"

"Oh, don't say any more!" cried the woman, with a break in her voice. "Say that you don't love
me--that is all there is to say! And you will never respect me again! I have been a fool--I
have ruined everything! I have flung away your friendship, that I might have kept!"

"No," he said.

But she rushed on, vehemently--"At least, I have been honest--give me credit for that! That
is how all my troubles come--I say what is in my mind, and I pay the price for my blunders.
It is not as if I were cold and calculating--so don't despise me altogether."

"I couldn't despise you," said Montague. "I am simply pained, because I have made you unhappy.
And I did not mean to."

Mrs. Winnie sat staring ahead of her in a sombre reverie. "Don't think any more about it,"
she said, bitterly. "I will get over it. I am not worth troubling about. Don't you suppose
I know how you feel about this world that I live in? And I'm part of it--I beat my wings, and
try to get out, but I can't. I'm in it, and I'll stay in till I die; I might as well give up.
I thought that I could steal a little joy--you have no idea how hungry I am for a little joy!
You have no idea how lonely I am! And how empty my life is! You talk about your fear of making
me unhappy; it's a grim jest--but I'll give you permission, if you can! I'll ask nothing--no
promises, no sacrifices! I'll take all the risks, and pay all the penalties!"

She smiled through her tears, a sardonic smile. He was watching her, and she turned again,
and their eyes met; again he saw the blood mount from her throat to her cheeks. At the same
time came the old stirring of the wild beasts within him. He knew that the less time he spent
in sympathizing with Mrs. Winnie, the better for both of them.

He had started to rise, and words of farewell were on his lips; when suddenly there came a
knock upon the door.

Mrs. Winnie sprang to her feet. "Who is that?" she cried.

And the door opened, and Mr. Duval entered.

"Good evening," he said pleasantly, and came toward her.

Mrs. Winnie flushed angrily, and stared at him. "Why do you come here unannounced?" she cried.

"I apologize," he said--"but I found this in my mail--"

And Montague, in the act of rising to greet him, saw that he had the offensive clipping in
his hand. Then he saw Duval give a start, and realized that the man had not been aware of his
presence in the room.

Duval gazed from Montague to his wife, and noticed for the first time her tears, and her agitation.
"I beg pardon," he said. "I am evidently trespassing."

"You most certainly are," responded Mrs. Winnie.

He made a move to withdraw; but before he could take a step, she had brushed past him and left
the room, slamming the door behind her.

And Duval stared after her, and then he stared at Montague, and laughed. "Well! well! well!"
he said.

Then, checking his amusement, he added, "Good evening, sir."

"Good evening," said Montague.

He was trembling slightly, and Duval noticed it; he smiled genially. "This is the sort of material
out of which scenes are made," said he. "But I beg you not to be embarrassed--we won't have
any scenes."

Montague could think of nothing to say to that.

"I owe Evelyn an apology," the other continued. "It was entirely an accident--this clipping,
you see. I do not intrude, as a rule. You may make yourself at home in future."

Montague flushed scarlet at the words.

"Mr. Duval," he said, "I have to assure you that you are mistaken--"

The other stared at him. "Oh, come, come!" he said, laughing. "Let us talk as men of the world."

"I say that you are mistaken," said Montague again.

The other shrugged his shoulders. "Very well," he said genially. "As you please. I simply wish
to make matters clear to you, that's all. I wish you joy with Evelyn. I say nothing about her--you
love her. Suffice it that I've had her, and I'm tired of her; the field is yours. But keep
her out of mischief, and don't let her make a fool of herself in public, if you can help it.
And don't let her spend too much money--she costs me a million a year already.--Good evening,
Mr. Montague."

And he went out. Montague, who stood like a statue, could hear him chuckling all the way down
the hall.

At last Montague himself started to leave. But he heard Mrs. Winnie coming back, and he waited
for her. She came in and shut the door, and turned toward him.

"What did he say?" she asked.

"He--was very pleasant," said Montague.

And she smiled grimly. "I went out on purpose," she said. "I wanted you to see him--to see
what sort of a man he is, and how much 'duty' I owe him! You saw, I guess."

"Yes, I saw," said he.

Then again he started to go. But she took him by the arm. "Come and talk to me," she said.
"Please!"

And she led him back to the fire. "Listen," she said. "He will not come here again. He is going
away to-night--I thought he had gone already. And he does not return for a month or two. There
will be no one to disturb us again."

She came close to him and gazed up into his face. She had wiped her tears away, and her happy
look had come back to her; she was lovelier than ever.

"I took you by surprise," she said, smiling. "You didn't know what to make of it. And I was
ashamed--I thought you would hate me. But I'm not going to be unhappy any more--I don't care
at all. I'm glad that I spoke!"

And Mrs. Winnie put up her hands and took him by the lapels of his coat. "I know that you love
me," she said; "I saw it in your eyes just now, before he came in: It is simply that you won't
let yourself go. You have so many doubts and so many fears. But you will see that I am right;
you will learn to love me. You won't be able to help it--I shall be so kind and good! Only
don't go away--"

Mrs. Winnie was so close to him that her breath touched his cheek. "Promise me, dear," she
whispered--"promise me that you won't stop seeing me--that you will learn to love me. I can't
do without you!"

Montague was trembling in every nerve; he felt like a man caught in a net. Mrs. Winnie had
had everything she ever wanted in her life; and now she wanted him! It was impossible for her
to face any other thought.

"Listen," he began gently.

But she saw the look of resistance in his eyes, and she cried "No no--don't! I cannot do without
you! Think! I love you! What more can I say to you? I cannot believe that you don't care for
me--you HAVE been fond of me--I have seen it in your face. Yet you're afraid of me--why? Look
at me--am I not beautiful to look at! And is a woman's love such a little thing--can you fling
it away and trample upon it so easily? Why do you wish to go? Don't you understand--no one
knows we are here--no one cares! You can come here whenever you wish--this is my place--mine!
And no one will think anything about it. They all do it. There is nothing to be afraid of!"

She put her arms about him, and clung to him so that he could feel the beating of her heart
upon his bosom. "Oh, don't leave me here alone to-night!" she cried.

To Montague it was like the ringing of an alarm-bell deep within his soul. "I must go," he said.

She flung back her head and stared at him, and he saw the terror and anguish in her eyes. "No,
no!" she cried, "don't say that to me! I can't bear it--oh, see what I have done! Look at me!
Have mercy on me!"

"Mrs. Winnie," he said, "you must have mercy on ME!"

But he only felt her clasp him more tightly. He took her by the wrists, and with quiet force
he broke her hold upon him; her hands fell to her sides, and she stared at him, aghast.

"I must go," he said, again.

And he started toward the door. She followed him dumbly with her eyes.

"Good-bye," he said. He knew that there was no use of any more words; his sympathy had been
like oil upon flames. He saw her move, and as he opened the door, she flung herself down in
a chair and burst into frantic weeping. He shut the door softly and went away.

He found his way down the stairs, and got his hat and coat, and went out, unseen by anyone.
He walked down the Avenue-and there suddenly was the giant bulk of St. Cecilia's lifting itself
into the sky. He stopped and looked at it--it seemed a great tumultuous surge of emotion. And
for the first time in his life it seemed to him that he understood why men had put together
that towering heap of stone!

Then he went on home.

He found Alice dressing for a ball, and Oliver waiting for her. He went to his room, and took
off his coat; and Oliver came up to him, and with a sudden gesture reached over to his shoulder,
and held up a trophy.

He drew it out carefully, and measured the length of it, smiling mischievously in the meanwhile.
Then he held it up to the light, to see the colour of it.

"A black one!" he cried. "Coal black!" And he looked at his brother, with a merry twinkle in
his eyes. "Oh, Allan!" he chuckled.

Montague said nothing.

CHAPTER XX

It was about a week from the beginning of Lent, when there would be a lull in the city's gaieties,
and Society would shift the scene of its activities to the country clubs, and to California
and Hot Springs and Palm Beach. Mrs. Caroline Smythe invited Alice to join her in an expedition
to the last-named place; but Montague interposed, because he saw that Alice had been made pale
and nervous by three months of night-and-day festivities. Also, a trip to Florida would necessitate
ten or fifteen thousand dollars' worth of new clothes; and these would not do for the summer,
it appeared--they would be faded and passe by that time.

So Alice settled back to rest; but she was too popular to be let alone--a few days later came
another invitation, this time from General Prentice and his family. They were planning a railroad
trip--to be gone for a month; they would have a private train, and twenty five people in the
party, and would take in California and Mexico--"swinging round the circle," as it was called.
Alice was wild to go, and Montague gave his consent. Afterward he learned to his dismay that
Charlie Carter was one of those invited, and he would have liked to have Alice withdraw; but
she did not wish to, and he could not make up his mind to insist.

These train trips were the very latest diversion of the well-to-do; a year ago no one had heard
of them, and now fifty parties were leaving New York every month. You might see a dozen of
such hotel-trains at once at Palm Beach; there were some people who lived on board all the
time, having special tracks built for them in pleasant locations wherever they stopped. One
man had built a huge automobile railroad car, shaped like a ram, and having accommodation for
sixty people. The Prentice train had four cars, one of them a "library car," finished in St.
Iago mahogany, and provided with a pipe-organ. Also there were bath-rooms and a barber-shop,
and a baggage car with two autos on board for exploring purposes.

Since the episode of Mrs. Winnie, Oliver had apparently concluded that his brother was one
of the initiated. Not long afterward he permitted him to a glimpse into that side of his life
which had been hinted at in the songs at the bachelors' dinner.

Oliver had planned to take Betty Wyman to the theatre; but Betty's grandfather had come home
from the West unexpectedly, and so Oliver came round and took his brother instead.

"I was going to play a joke on her," he said. "We'll go to see one of my old flames."

It was a translation of a French farce, in which the marital infidelities of two young couples
were the occasion of many mishaps. One of the characters was a waiting-maid, who was in love
with a handsome young soldier, and was pursued by the husband of one of the couples. It was
a minor part, but the young Jewish girl who played it had so many pretty graces and such a
merry laugh that she made it quite conspicuous. When the act was over, Oliver asked him whose
acting he liked best, and he named her.

"Come and be introduced to her," Oliver said.

He opened a door near their box. "How do you do, Mr. Wilson," he said, nodding to a man in
evening dress, who stood near by. Then he turned toward the dressing-rooms, and went down a
corridor, and knocked upon one of the doors. A voice called, "Come in," and he opened the door;
and there was a tiny room, with odds and ends of clothing scattered about, and the girl, clad
in corsets and underskirt, sitting before a mirror. "Hello, Rosalie," said he.

And she dropped her powder-puff, and sprang up with a cry--"Ollie!" 'In a moment more she had
her arms about his neck.

"Oh, you wretched man," she cried. "Why don't you come to see me any more? Didn't you get my
letters?"

"I got some," said he. "But I've been busy. This is my brother, Mr. Allan Montague."

The other nodded to Montague, and said, "How do you do?"--but without letting go of Oliver.
"Why don't you come to see me?" she exclaimed.

"There, there, now!" said Oliver, laughing good-naturedly. "I brought my brother along so that
you'd have to behave yourself."

"I don't care about your brother!" exclaimed the girl, without even giving him another glance.
Then she held Oliver at arm's length, and gazed into his face. "How can you be so cruel to
me?" she asked.

"I told you I was busy," said he, cheerfully. "And I gave you fair warning, didn't I? How's
Toodles?"

"Oh, Toodles is in raptures," said Rosalie. "She's got a new fellow." And then, her manner
changing to one of merriment, she added: "Oh, Ollie! He gave her a diamond brooch! And she
looks like a countess--she's hoping for a chance to wear it in a part!"

"You've seen Toodles," said Oliver, to his brother "She's in 'The Kaliph of Kamskatka.'".

"They're going on the road next week," said Rosalie. "And then I'll be all alone." She added,
in a pleading voice: "Do, Ollie, be a good boy and take us out to-night. Think how long it's
been since I've seen you! Why, I've been so good I don't know myself in the looking-glass.
Please, Ollie!"

"All right," said he, "maybe I will."

"I'm not going to let you get away from me," she cried. "I'll come right over the footlights
after you!"

"You'd better get dressed," said Oliver. "You'll be late."

He pushed aside a tray with some glasses on it, and seated himself upon a trunk; and Montague
stood in a corner and watched Rosalie, while she powdered and painted herself, and put on an
airy summer dress, and poured out a flood of gossip about "Toodles" and "Flossie" and "Grace"
and some others. A few minutes later came a stentorian voice in the hallway: "Second act!"
There were more embraces, and then Ollie brushed the powder from his coat, and went away laughing.

Montague stood for a few moments in the wings, watching the scene-shifters putting the final
touches to the new set, and the various characters taking their positions. Then they went out
to their seats. "Isn't she a jewel?" asked Oliver.

"She's very pretty," the other admitted.

"She came right out of the slums," said Oliver--"over on Rivington Street. That don't happen
very often."

"How did you come to know her?" asked his brother.

"Oh, I picked her out. She was in a chorus, then. I got her first speaking part."

"Did you?" said the other, in surprise. "How did you do that?"

"Oh, a little money," was the reply. "Money will do most anything. And I was in love with her--that's
how I got her."

Montague said nothing, but sat in thought.

"We'll take her out to supper and make her happy," added Oliver, as the curtain started up.
"She's lonesome, I guess. You see, I promised Betty I'd reform."

All through that scene and the next one Rosalie acted for them; she was so full of verve and
merriment that there was quite a stir in the audience, and she got several rounds of applause.
Then, when the play was over, she extricated herself from the arms of the handsome young soldier,
and fled to her dressing-room, and when Oliver and Montague arrived, she was half ready for
the street.

They went up Broadway, and from a group of people coming out of another stage-entrance a young
girl came to join them--an airy little creature with the face of a doll-baby, and a big hat
with a purple feather on top. This was "Toodles"--otherwise known as Helen Gwynne; and she
took Montague's arm, and they fell in behind Oliver and his companion.

Montague wondered what one said to a chorus-girl on the way to supper. Afterward his brother
told him that Toodles had been the wife of a real-estate agent in a little town in Oklahoma,
and had run away from respectability and boredom with a travelling theatrical company. Now
she was tripping her part in the musical comedy which Montague had seen at Mrs. Lane's; and
incidentally swearing devotion to a handsome young "wine-agent." She confided to Montague that
she hoped the latter might see her that evening--he needed to be made jealous.

"The Great White Way" was the name which people had given to this part of Broadway; and at
the head of it stood a huge hotel with flaming lights, and gorgeous marble and bronze, and
famous paintings upon the walls and ceilings inside. At this hour every one of its many dining-rooms
was thronged with supper-parties, and the place rang with laughter and the rattle of dishes,
and the strains of several orchestras which toiled heroically in the midst of the uproar. Here
they found a table, and while Oliver was ordering frozen poached eggs and quails in aspic,
Montague sat and gazed about him at the revelry, and listened to the prattle of the little
ex-sempstress from Rivington Street.

His brother had "got her," he said, by buying a speaking part in a play for her; and Montague
recalled the orgies of which he had heard at the bachelors' dinner, and divined that here he
was at the source of the stream from which they were fed. At the table next to them was a young
Hebrew, whom Toodles pointed out as the son and heir of a great clothing manufacturer. He was
"keeping" several girls, said she; and the queenly creature who was his vis-a-vis was one of
the chorus in "The Maids of Mandalay." And a little way farther down the room was a boy with
the face of an angel and the air of a prince of the blood--he had inherited a million and run
away from school, and was making a name for himself in the Tenderloin. The pretty little girl
all in green who was with him was Violet Pane, who was the artist's model in a new play that
had made a hit. She had had a full-page picture of herself in the Sunday supplement of the
"sporting paper" which was read here--so Rosalie remarked.

"Why don't you ever do that for me?" she added, to Oliver.

"Perhaps I will," said he, with a laugh. "What does it cost?"

And when he learned that the honour could be purchased for only fifteen hundred dollars, he
said, "I'll do it, if you'll be good." And from that time on the last trace of worriment vanished
from the face and the conversation of Rosalie.

As the champagne cocktails disappeared, she and Oliver became confidential. Then Montague turned
to Toodles, to learn more about how the "second generation" was preying upon the women of the
stage.

"A chorus-girl got from ten to twenty dollars a week," said Toodles; and that was hardly enough
to pay for her clothes. Her work was very uncertain--she would spend weeks at rehearsal, and
then if the play failed, she would get nothing. It was a dog's life; and the keys of freedom
and opportunity were in the keeping of rich men, who haunted the theatres and laid siege to
the girls. They would send in notes to them, or fling bouquets to them, with cards, or perhaps
money, hidden in them. There were millionaire artists and bohemians who kept a standing order
for seats in the front rows at opening performances; they had accounts with florists and liverymen
and confectioners, and gave carte blanche to scores of girls who lent themselves to their purposes.
Sometimes they were in league with the managers, and a girl who held back would find her chances
imperilled; sometimes these men would even finance shows to give a chance to some favourite.

Afterward Toodles turned to listen to Oliver and his companion; and Montague sat back and gazed
about the room. Next to him was a long table with a dozen, people at it; and he watched the
buckets of champagne and the endless succession of fantastic-looking dishes of food, and the
revellers, with their flushed faces and feverish eyes and loud laughter. Above all the tumult
was the voice of the orchestra, calling, calling, like the storm wind upon the mountains; the
music was wild and chaotic, and produced an indescribable sense of pain and confusion. When
one realized that this same thing was going on in thousands of places in this district it seemed
that here was a flood of dissipation that out-rivalled even that of Society.

It was said that the hotels of New York, placed end to end, would reach all the way to London;
and they took care of a couple of hundred thousand people a day--a horde which had come from
all over the world in search of pleasure and excitement. There were sight-seers and "country
customers" from forty-five states; ranchers from Texas, and lumber kings from Maine, and mining
men from Nevada. At home they had reputations, and perhaps families to consider; but once plunged
into the whirlpool of the Tenderloin, they were hidden from all the world. They came with their
pockets full of money; and hotels and restaurants, gambling-places and pool-rooms and brothels--all
were lying in wait for them! So eager had the competition become that there was a tailoring
establishment and a bank that were never closed the year round, except on Sunday.

Everywhere about one's feet the nets of vice were spread. The head waiter in one's hotel was
a "steerer" for a "dive," and the house detective was "touting" for a gambling-place. The handsome
woman who smiled at one in "Peacock Alley" was a "madame"; the pleasant-faced young man who
spoke to one at the bar was on the look-out for customers for a brokerage-house next door.
Three times in a single day in another of these great caravanserais Montague was offered "short
change"; and so his eyes were opened to a new kind of plundering. He was struck by the number
of attendants in livery who swarmed about him, and to whom he gave tips for their services.
He did not notice that the boys in the wash-rooms and coat-rooms could not speak a word of
English; he could not know that they were searched every night, and had everything taken from
them, and that the Greek who hired them had paid fifteen thousand dollars a year to the hotel
for the privilege.

So far had the specialization in evil proceeded that there were places of prostitution which
did a telephone-business exclusively, and would send a woman in a cab to any address; and there
were high-class assignation-houses, which furnished exquisite apartments and the services of
maids and valets. And in this world of vice the modern doctrine of the equality of the sexes
was fully recognized; there were gambling-houses and pool-rooms and opium-joints for women,
and drinking-places which catered especially for them. In the "orange room" of one of the big
hotels, you might see rich women of every rank and type, fingering the dainty leather-bound
and gold-embossed wine cards. In this room alone were sold over ten thousand drinks every day;
and the hotel paid a rental of a million a year to the Devon estate. Not far away the Devons
also owned negro-dives, where, in the early hours of the morning, you might see richly-gowned
white women drinking.

In this seething caldron of graft there were many strange ways of making money, and many strange
and incredible types of human beings to be met. Once, in "Society," Montague had pointed out
to him a woman who had been a "tattooed lady" in a circus; there was another who had been a
confederate of gamblers upon the ocean steamships, and another who had washed dishes in a mining-camp.
There was one of these great hotels whose proprietor had been a successful burglar; and a department-store
whose owner had begun life as a "fence." In any crowd of these revellers you might have such
strange creatures pointed out to you; a multimillionaire who sold rotten jam to the people;
another who had invented opium soothing-syrup for babies; a convivial old gentleman who disbursed
the "yellow dog fund" of several railroads; a handsome chauffeur who had run away with an heiress.
'Once a great scientist had invented a new kind of underwear, and had endeavoured to make it
a gift to humanity; and here was a man who had seized upon it and made millions out of it!
Here was a "trance medium," who had got a fortune out of an imbecile old manufacturer; here
was a great newspaper proprietor, who published advertisements of assignations at a dollar
a line; here was a cigar manufacturer, whose smug face was upon every billboard--he had begun
as a tin manufacturer, and to avoid the duty, he had had his raw material cast in the form
of statues, and brought them in as works of art!

And terrible and vile as were the sources from which the fortunes had been derived, they were
no viler nor more terrible than the purposes for which they had been spent. Mrs. Vivie Patton
had hinted to Montague of a "Decameron Club," whose members gathered in each others' homes
and vied in the telling of obscene stories; Strathcona had told him about another set of exquisite
ladies and gentlemen who gave elaborate entertainments, in which they dressed in the costumes
of bygone periods, and imitated famous characters in history, and the vices and orgies of courts
and camps. One heard of "Cleopatra nights" on board of yachts at Newport. There was a certain
Wall Street "plunger," who had begun life as a mining man in the West; and when his customers
came in town, he would hire a trolley-car, and take a load of champagne and half a dozen prostitutes,
and spend the night careering about the country. This man was now quartered in one of the great
hotels in New York; and in his apartments he would have prize fights and chicken fights; and
bloodthirsty exhibitions called "purring matches," in which men tried to bark each other's
shins; or perhaps a "battle royal," with a diamond scarf-pin dangling from the ceiling, and
half a dozen negroes in a free-for-all fight for the prize.

No picture of the ways of the Metropolis would be complete which did not force upon the reluctant
reader some realization of the extent to which new and hideous incitements to vice were spreading.
To say that among the leisured classes such practices were raging like a pestilence would be
no exaggeration. Ten years ago they were regarded with aversion by even the professionally
vicious; but now the commonest prostitute accepted them as part of her fate. And there was
no height to which they had not reached--ministers of state were enslaved by them; great fortunes
and public events were controlled by them. In Washington there had been an ambassador whose
natural daughter taught them in the houses of the great, until the scandal forced the minister's
recall. Some of these practices were terrible in their effects, completely wrecking the victim
in a short time; and physicians who studied their symptoms would be horrified to see them appearing
in the homes of their friends.

And from New York, the centre of the wealth and culture of the country, these vices spread
to every corner of it. Theatrical companies and travelling salesmen carried them; visiting
merchants and sightseers acquired them. Pack-pedlers sold vile pictures and books--the manufacturing
or importing of which was now quite an industry; one might read catalogues printed abroad in
English, the contents of which would make one's flesh creep. There were cheap weeklies, costing
ten cents a year, which were thrust into area-windows for servant-girls; there were yellow-covered
French novels of unbelievable depravity for the mistress of the house. It was a curious commentary
upon the morals of Society that upon the trains running to a certain suburban community frequented
by the ultra-fashionable, the newsboys did a thriving business in such literature; and when
the pastor of the fashionable church eloped with a Society girl, the bishop publicly laid the
blame to the morals of his parishioners!

The theory was that there were two worlds, and that they were kept rigidly separate. There
were two sets of women; one to be toyed with and flung aside, and the other to be protected
and esteemed. Such things as prostitutes and kept women might exist, but people of refinement
did not talk about them, and were not concerned with them. But Montague was familiar with the
saying, that if you follow the chain of the slave, you will find the other end about the wrist
of the master; and he discovered that the Tenderloin was wreaking its vengeance upon Fifth
Avenue. It was not merely that the men of wealth were carrying to their wives and children
the diseases of vice; they were carrying also the manners and the ideals.

Montague had been amazed by the things he had found in New York Society; the smoking and drinking
and gambling of women, their hard and cynical views of life, their continual telling of coarse
stories. And here, in this under-world, he had come upon the fountain head of the corruption.
It was something which came to him in a sudden flash of intuition;--the barriers between the
two worlds were breaking down!

He could picture the process in a hundred different forms. There was Betty Wyman. His brother
had meant to take her to the theatre, to let her see Rosalie, by way of a joke! So, of course,
Betty knew of his escapades, and of those of his set; she and her girl friends were whispering
and jesting about them. Here sat Oliver, smiling and cynical, toying with Rosalie as a cat
might toy with a mouse; and to-morrow he would be with Betty--and could anyone doubt any longer
whence Betty had derived her attitude towards life? And the habits of mind that Oliver had
taught her as a girl she would not forget as a wife; he might be anxious to keep her to himself,
but there would be others whose interest was different.

And Montague recalled other things that he had seen or heard in Society, that he could put
his finger upon, as having come out of this under-world. The more he thought of the explanation,
the more it seemed to explain. This "Society," which had perplexed him--now he could describe
it: its manners and ideals of life were those which he would have expected to find in the "fast"
side of stage life.

It was, of course, the women who made Society, and gave it its tone; and the women of Society
were actresses. They were actresses in their love of notoriety and display; in their taste
in clothes and jewels, their fondness for cigarettes and champagne. They made up like actresses;
they talked and thought like actresses. The only obvious difference was that the women of the
stage were carefully selected--were at least up to a certain standard of physical excellence;
whereas the women of Society were not selected at all, and some were lean, and some were stout,
and some were painfully homely.

Montague recalled cases where the two sets had met as at some of the private entertainments.
It was getting to be the fashion to hobnob with the stage people on such occasions; and he
recalled how naturally the younger people took to this. Only the older women held aloof; looking
down upon the women of the stage from an ineffable height, as belonging to a lower caste--because
they were obliged to work for their livings. But it seemed to Montague, as he sat and talked
with this poor chorus-girl, who had sold herself for a little pleasure, that it was easier
to pardon her than the woman who had been born to luxury, and scorned those who produced her
wealth.

But most of all, one's sympathies went out to a person who was not to be met in either of these
sets; to the girl who had not sold herself, but was struggling for a living in the midst of
this ravening corruption. There were thousands of self-respecting women, even on the stage;
Toodles herself had been among them, she told Montague. "I kept straight for a long time,"
she said, laughing cheerfully--"and on ten dollars a week! I used to go out on the road, and
then they paid me sixteen; and think of trying to live on one-night stands--to board yourself
and stop at hotels and dress for the theatre--on sixteen a week, and no job half the year!
And all that time--do you know Cyril Chambers, the famous church painter?"

"I've heard of him," said Montague.

"Well, I was with a show here on Broadway the next winter; and every night for six months he
sent me a bunch of orchids that couldn't have cost less than seventy-five dollars! And he told
me he'd open accounts for me in all the stores I chose, if I'd spend the next summer in Europe
with him. He said I could take my mother or my sister with me--and I was so green in those
days, I thought that must mean he didn't intend anything wrong!"

Toodles smiled at the memory. "Did you go?" asked the man.

"No," she answered. "I stayed here with a roof-garden show that failed. And I went to my old
manager for a job, and he said to me, 'I can only pay you ten a week. But why are you so foolish?'
'How do you mean?' I asked; and he answered, 'Why don't you get a rich sweetheart? Then I could
pay you sixty.' That's what a girl hears on the stage!"

"I don't understand," said Montague, perplexed. "Did he mean he could get money out of the man?"

"Not directly," said Toodles; "but tickets--and advertising. Why, men will hire front-row seats
for a whole season, if they're interested in a girl in the show. And they'll take all their
friends to see her, and she'll be talked about--she'll be somebody, instead of just nobody,
as I was."

"Then it actually helps her on the stage!" said Montague.

"Helps her!" exclaimed Toodles. "My God! I've known a girl who'd been abroad with a tip-top
swell--and had the gowns and the jewels to prove it--to come home and get into the front row
of a chorus at a hundred dollars a week."

Toodles was cheerful and all unaware; and that only made the tragedy of it all one shade more
black to Montague. He sat lost in sombre reverie, forgetting his companions, and the blare
and glare of the place.

In the centre of this dining-room was a great cone-shaped stand, containing a display of food;
and as they strolled out, Montague stopped to look at it. There were platters garnished with
flowers and herbs, and containing roast turkeys and baked hams, jellied meats and game in aspic,
puddings and tarts and frosted cakes--every kind of food-fantasticality imaginable. One might
have spent an hour in studying it, and from top to bottom he would have found nothing simple,
nothing natural. The turkeys had paper curls and rosettes stuck over them; the hams were covered
with a white gelatine, the devilled crabs with a yellow mayonnaise-and all painted over in
pink and green and black with landscapes and marine views--with "ships and shoes and sealing-wax
and cabbages and kings." The jellied meats and the puddings were in the shape of fruits and
flowers; and there were elaborate works of art in pink and white confectionery--a barn-yard,
for instance, with horses and cows, and a pump, and a dairymaid--and one or two alligators.

And all this was changed every day! Each morning you might see a procession of a score of waiters
bearing aloft a new supply.

He thought of that now; he stood here and gazed, and wondered about all the slaves of the lamp
who served in this huge temple of luxury. He looked at the waiters--pale, hollow-chested, harried-looking
men: he imagined the hordes of servants of yet lower kinds, who never emerged into the light
of day; the men who washed the dishes, the men who carried the garbage, the men who shovelled
the coal into the furnaces, and made the heat and light and power. Pent up in dim cellars,
many stories under ground, and bound for ever to the service of sensuality--how terrible must
be their fate, how unimaginable their corruption! And they were foreigners; they had come here
seeking liberty. And the masters of the new country had seized them and pent them here!

From this as a starting-point his thought went on, to the hordes of toilers in every part of
the world, whose fate it was to create the things which these blind revellers destroyed; the
women and children in countless mills and sweatshops, who spun the cloth, and cut and sewed
it; the girls who made the artificial flowers, who rolled the cigarettes, who gathered the
grapes from the vines; the miners who dug the coal and the precious metals out of the earth;
the men who watched in ten thousand signal-towers and engines, who fought the elements from
the decks of ten thousand ships--to bring all these things here to be destroyed. Step by step,
as the flood of extravagance rose, and the energies of the men were turned to the creation
of futility and corruption--so, step by step, increased the misery and degradation of all these
slaves of Mammon. And who could imagine what they would think about it--if ever they came to think?

And then, in a sudden flash, there came back to Montague that speech he had heard upon the
street-corner, the first evening he had been in New York! He could hear again the pounding
of the elevated trains, and the shrill voice of the orator; he could see his haggard and hungry
face, and the dense crowd gazing up at him. And there came to him the words of Major Thorne:

"It means another civil war!"

CHAPTER XXI

Alice had been gone for a couple of weeks, and the day was drawing near when the Hasbrook case
came up for trial. The Saturday before that being the date of the Mi-carême dance of the Long
Island Hunt Club, Siegfried Harvey was to have a house-party for the week-end, and Montague
accepted his invitation. He had been working hard, putting the finishing touches to his brief,
and he thought that a rest would be good for him.

He and his brother went down upon Friday afternoon, and the first person he met was Betty Wyman,
whom he had not seen for quite a while. Betty had much to say, and said it. As Montague had
not been seen with Mrs. Winnie since the episode in her house, people had begun to notice the
break, and there was no end of gossip; and Mistress Betty wanted to know all about it, and
how things stood between them.

But he would not tell her, and so she saucily refused to tell him what she had heard. All the
while they talked she was eyeing him quizzically, and it was evident that she took the worst
for granted; also that he had become a much more interesting person to her because of it. Montague
had the strangest sensations when he was talking with Betty Wyman; she was delicious and appealing,
almost irresistible; and yet her views of life were so old! "I told you you wouldn't do for
a tame cat!" she said to him.

Then she went on to talk to him about his case, and to tease him about the disturbance he had made.

"You know," she said, "Ollie and I were in terror--we thought that grandfather would be furious,
and that we'd be ruined. But somehow, it didn't work out that way. Don't you say anything about
it, but I've had a sort of a fancy that he must be on your side of the fence."

"I'd be glad to know it," said Montague, with a laugh--"I've been trying for a long time to
find out who is on my side of the fence."

"He was talking about it the other day," said Betty, "and I heard him tell a man that he'd
read your argument, and thought it was good."

"I'm glad to hear that," said Montague.

"So was I," replied she. "And I said to him afterward, 'I suppose you don't know that Allan
Montague is my Ollie's brother.' And he did you the honour to say that he hadn't supposed any
member of Ollie's family could have as much sense!"

Betty was staying with an aunt near by, and she went back before dinner. In the automobile
which came for her was old Wyman himself, on his way home from the city; and as a snowstorm
had begun, he came in and stood by the fire while his car was exchanged for a closed one from
Harvey's stables. Montague did not meet him, but stood and watched him from the shadows-a mite
of a man, with a keen and eager face, full of wrinkles. It was hard to realize that this little
body held one of the great driving minds of the country. He was an intensely nervous and irritable
man, bitter and implacable--by all odds the most hated and feared man in Wall Street. He was
swift, imperious, savage as a hornet. "Directors at meetings that I attend vote first and discuss
afterward," was one of his sayings that Montague had heard quoted. Watching him here by the
fireside, rubbing his hands and chatting pleasantly, Montague had a sudden sense of being behind
the scenes, of being admitted to a privilege denied to ordinary mortals--the beholding of royalty
in everyday attire!

After dinner that evening Montague had a chat in the smoking-room with his host; and he brought
up the subject of the Hasbrook case, and told about his trip to Washington, and his interview
with Judge Ellis.

Harvey also had something to communicate. "I had a talk with Freddie Vandam about it," said he.

"What did he say?" asked Montague.

"Well," replied the other, with a laugh, "he's indignant, needless to say. You know, Freddie
was brought up by his father to regard the Fidelity as his property, in a way. He always refers
to it as 'my company.' And he's very high and mighty about it--it's a personal affront if anyone
attacks it. But it was evident to me that he doesn't know who's behind this case."

"Did he know about Ellis?" asked Montague.

"Yes," said the other, "he had found out that much. It was he who told me that originally.
He says that Ellis has been sponging off the company for years--he has a big salary that he
never earns, and has borrowed something like a quarter of a million dollars on worthless securities."

Montague gave a gasp.

"Yes," laughed Harvey. "But after all, that's a little matter. The trouble with Freddie Vandam
is that that sort of thing is all he sees; and so he'll never be able to make out the mystery.
He knows that this clique or that in the company is plotting to get some advantage, or to use
him for their purposes--but he never realizes how the big men are pulling the wires behind
the scenes. Some day they'll throw him overboard altogether, and then he'll realize how they've
played with him. That's what this Hasbrook case means, you know--they simply want to frighten
him with a threat of getting the company's affairs into the courts and the newspapers."

Montague sat for a while in deep thought.

"What would you think would be Wyman's relation to the matter?" he asked, at last.

"I wouldn't know," said Harvey. "He's supposed to be Freddie's backer--but what can you tell
in such a tangle?"

"It is certainly a mess," said Montague.

"There's no bottom to it," said the other. "Absolutely--it would take your breath away! Just
listen to what Vandam told me to-day!"

And then Harvey named one of the directors of the Fidelity who was well known as a philanthropist.
Having heard that the wife of one of his junior partners had met with an accident in childbirth,
and that the doctor had told her husband that if she ever had another child, she would die,
this man had asked, "Why don't you have her life insured?" The other replied that he had tried,
and the companies had refused her. "I'll fix it for you," said he; and so they put in another
application, and the director came to Freddie Vandam and had the policy put through "by executive
order." Seven months later the woman died, and the Fidelity had paid her husband in full--a
hundred thousand or two!

"That's what's going on in the insurance world!" said Siegfried Harvey.

And that was the story which Montague took with him to add to his enjoyment of the festivities
at the country club. It was a very gorgeous affair; but perhaps the sombreness of his thoughts
was to blame; the flowers and music and beautiful gowns failed entirely in their appeal, and
he saw only the gluttony and drunkenness--more of it than ever before, it seemed to him.

Then, too, he had an unpleasant experience. He met Laura Hegan; and presuming upon her cordial
reception of his visit, he went up and spoke to her pleasantly. And she greeted him with frigid
politeness; she was so brief in her remarks and turned away so abruptly as almost to snub him.
He went away quite bewildered. But later on he recalled the gossip about himself and Mrs. Winnie,
and he guessed that that was the explanation of Miss Hegar's action.

The episode threw a shadow over his whole visit. On Sunday he went out into the country and
tramped through a snowstorm by himself, filled with a sense of disgust for all the past, and
of foreboding for the future. He hated this money-world, in which all that was worst in human
beings was brought to the surface; he hated it, and wished that he had never set foot within
its bounds. It was only by tramping until he was too tired to feel anything that he was able
to master himself.

And then, toward dark, he came back, and found a telegram which had been forwarded from New York.

"Meet me at the Penna depot, Jersey City, at nine to-night. Alice."

This message, of course, drove all other thoughts from his mind. He had no time even to tell
Oliver about it--he had to jump into an automobile and rush to catch the next train for the
city. And all through the long, cold ride in ferry-boats and cabs he pondered this mystery.
Alice's party had not been expected for two weeks yet; and only two days before there had come
a letter from Los Angeles, saying that they would probably be a week over time. And here she
was home again!

He found there was an express from the West due at the hour named; apparently, therefore, Alice
had not come in the Prentice's train at all. The express was half an hour late, and so he paced
up and down the platform, controlling his impatience as best he could. And finally the long
train pulled in, and he saw Alice coming down the platform. She was alone!

"What does it mean?" were the first words he said to her.

"It's a long story," she answered. "I wanted to come home.";

"You mean you've come all the way from the coast by yourself!" he gasped.

"Yes," she said, "all the way."

"What in the world--" he began.

"I can't tell you here, Allan," she said. "Wait till we get to some quiet place."

"But," he persisted. "The Prentice? They let you come home alone?"

"They didn't know it," she said. "I ran away."

He was more bewildered than ever. But as he started to ask more questions, she laid a hand
upon his arm. "Please wait, Allan," she said. "It upsets me to talk about it. It was Charlie
Carter."

And so the light broke. He caught his breath and gasped, "Oh!"

He said not another word until they had crossed the ferry and settled themselves in a cab,
and started. "Now," he said, "tell me."

Alice began. "I was very much upset," she said. "But you must understand, Allan, that I've
had nearly a week to think it over, and I don't mind it now. So I want you please not to get
excited about it; it wasn't poor Charlie's fault--he can't help himself. It was my mistake.
I ought to have taken your advice and had nothing to do with him."

"Go on," said he; and Alice told her story.

The party had gone sight-seeing, and she had had a headache and had stayed in the car. And
Charlie Carter had come and begun making love to her. "He had asked me to marry him already--that
was at the beginning of the trip," she said. "And I told him no. After that he would never
let me alone. And this time he went on in a terrible way--he flung himself down on his knees,
and wept, and said he couldn't live without me. And nothing I could say did any good. At last
he--he caught hold of me--and he wouldn't let me go. I was furious with him, and frightened.
I had to threaten to call for help before he would stop. And so--you see how it was."

"I see," said Montague, gravely. "Go on."

"Well, after that I made up my mind that I couldn't stay anywhere where I had to see him. And
I knew he would never go away without a scene. If I had asked Mrs. Prentice to send him away,
there would have been a scandal, and it would have spoiled everybody's trip. So I went out,
and found there was a train for the East in a little while, and I packed up my things, and
left a note for Mrs. Prentice. I told her a story--I said I'd had a telegram that your mother
was ill, and that I didn't want to spoil their good time, and had gone by myself. That was
the best thing I could think of. I wasn't afraid to travel, so long as I was sure that Charlie
couldn't catch up with me."

Montague said nothing; he sat with his hands gripped tightly.

"It seemed like a desperate thing to do," said Alice, nervously. "But you see, I was upset
and unhappy. I didn't seem to like the party any more--I wanted to be home. Do you understand?"

"Yes," said Montague, "I understand. And I'm glad you are here."

They reached home, and Montague called up Harvey's and told his brother what had happened.
He could hear Oliver gasp with astonishment. "That's a pretty how-do-you-do!" he said, when
he had got his breath back; and then he added, with a laugh, "I suppose that settles poor Charlie's
chances."

"I'm glad you've come to that conclusion," said the other, as he hung up the receiver.

This episode gave Montague quite a shock. But he had little time to think about it--the next
morning at eleven o'clock his case was to come up for trial, and so all his thoughts were called
away. This case had been the one real interest of his life for the last three months; it was
his purpose, the thing for the sake of which he endured everything else that repelled him.
And he had trained himself as an athlete for a great race; he was in form, and ready for the
effort of his life. He went down town that morning with every fibre of him, body and mind,
alert and eager; and he went into his office, and in his mail was a letter from Mr. Hasbrook.
He opened it hastily and read a message, brief and direct and decisive as a sword-thrust:

"I beg to inform you that I have received a satisfactory proposition from the Fidelity Company.
I have settled with them, and wish to withdraw the suit. Thanking you for your services, I
remain, sincerely."

To Montague the thing came like a thunderbolt. He sat utterly dumbfounded--his hands went limp,
and the letter fell upon the desk in front of him.

And at last, when he did move, he picked up the telephone, and told his secretary to call up
Mr. Hasbrook. Then he sat waiting; and when the bell rang, picked up the receiver, expecting
to hear Mr. Hasbrook's voice, and to demand an explanation. But he heard, instead, the voice
of his own secretary: "Central says the number's been discontinued, sir."

And he hung up the receiver, and sat motionless again. The dummy had disappeared!

To Montague this incident meant a change in the prospect of his whole life. It was the collapse
of all his hopes. He had nothing more to work for, nothing more to think about; the bottom
had fallen out of his career!

He was burning with a sense of outrage. He had been tricked and made a fool of; he had been
used and flung aside. And now there was nothing he could do--he was utterly helpless. What
affected him most was his sense of the overwhelming magnitude of the powers which had made
him their puppet; of the utter futility of the efforts that he or any other man could make
against them. They were like elemental, cosmic forces; they held all the world in their grip,
and a common man was as much at their mercy as a bit of chaff in a tempest.

All day long he sat in his office, brooding and nursing his wrath. He had moods when he wished
to drop everything, to shake the dust of the city from his feet, and go back home and recollect
what it was to be a gentleman. And then again he had fighting moods, when he wished to devote
all his life to punishing the men who had made use of him. He would get hold of some other
policy-holder in the Fidelity, one whom he could trust; he would take the case without pay,
and carry it through to the end! He would force the newspapers to talk about it--he would force
the people to heed what he said!

And then, toward evening, he went home, bitter and sore. And there was his brother sitting
in his study, waiting for him.

"Hello," he said, and took off his coat, preparing his mind for one more ignominy--the telling
of his misfortune to Oliver, and listening to his inevitable, "I told you so."

But Oliver himself had something to communicate something that would not bear keeping. He broke
out at once--"Tell me, Allan! What in the world has happened between you and Mrs. Winnie?"

"What do you mean?" asked Montague, sharply.

"Why," said Oliver, "everybody is talking about some kind of a quarrel."

"There has been no quarrel," said Montague.

"Well, what is it, then?"

"It's nothing."

"It must be something!" exclaimed Oliver. "What do all the stories mean?"

"What stories?"

"About you two. I met Mrs. Vivie Patton just now, and she swore me to secrecy, and told me
that Mrs. Winnie had told some one that you had made love to her so outrageously that she had
to ask you to leave the house."

Montague shrunk as from a blow. "Oh!" he gasped.

"That's what she said," said he.

"It's a lie!" he cried.

"That's what I told Mrs. Vivie," said the other; "it doesn't sound like you--"

Montague had flushed scarlet. "I don't mean that!" he cried. "I mean that Mrs. Winnie never
said any such thing."

"Oh," said Oliver, and he shrugged his shoulders. "Maybe not," he added. "But I know she's
furious with you about something--everybody's talking about it. She tells people that she'll
never speak to you again. And what I want to know is, why is it that you have to do things
to make enemies of everybody you know?"

Montague said nothing; he was trembling with anger.

"What in the world did you do to her?" began the other. "Can't you trust me---"

And suddenly Montague sprang to his feet. "Oh, Oliver," he exclaimed, "let me alone! Go away!"

And he went into the next room and slammed the door, and began pacing back and forth like a
caged animal.

It was a lie! It was a lie! Mrs. Winnie had never said such a thing! He would never believe
it--it was a nasty piece of backstairs gossip!

But then a new burst of rage swept over him What did it matter Whether it was true or not--whether
anything was true or not? What did it matter if anybody had done all the hideous and loathsome
things that everybody else said they had done? It was what everybody was saying! It was what
everybody believed--what everybody was interested in! It was the measure of a whole society--their
ideals and their standards! It was the way they spent their time, repeating nasty scandals
about each other; living in an atmosphere of suspicion and cynicism, with endless whispering
and leering, and gossip of lew intrigue.

A flood of rage surged up within him, and swept him, away--rage against the world into which
he had come, and against himself for the part he had played in it. Everything seemed to have
come to a head at once; and he hated everything--hated the people he had met, and the things
they did, and the things they had tempted him to do. He hated the way he had got his money,
and the way he had spent it. He hated the idleness and wastefulness, the drunkenness and debauchery,
the meanness and the snobbishness.

And suddenly he turned and flung open the door of the room where Oliver still sat. And he stood
in the doorway, exclaiming, "Oliver, I'm done with it!"

Oliver stared at him. "What do you mean?" he asked.

"I mean," cried his brother, "that I've had all I can stand of 'Society!' And I'm going to
quit. You can go on--but I don't intend to take another step with you! I've had enough--and
I think Alice has had enough, also. We'll take ourselves off your hands--we'll get out!"

"What are you going to do?" gasped Oliver.

"I'm going to give up these expensive apartments--give them up to-morrow, when our week is
up. And I'm going to stop squandering money for things I don't want. I'm going to stop accepting
invitations, and meeting people I don't like and don't want to know. I've tried your game--I've
tried it hard, and I don't like it; and I'm going to get out before it's too late. I'm going
to find some decent and simple place to live in; and I'm going down town to find out if there
isn't some way in New York for a man to earn an honest living!"

THE END